I'll be in Luke 10 tonight if you want to turn there.。
I'll start by sharing with you one of my most private fantasies.。
Everybody looked up.。
That's funny.。
I don't even know that I've ever said this before today, but I have found it to be incredibly。
true even in looking back.。
So here it is.。
I want to be Batman.。
And you might be like, yeah, that's every guy or lots of people do, but I'm like looking。
back on my life and I realized like this is something that has marked me.。
Like I've like bought stuff.。
I'm coming, it's coming all out in the open right now.。
Like I've like bought grappling hooks and samurai swords and, and like vehicles that。
can go off road just in case, you know?。
And I'm just thinking, I want to be a vigilante.。
I want to be this person that is quick.。
Like where does he get these wonderful toys that is able to move into any situation, you。
know, kind of lurk in the darkness and fight evil.。
And this is something that it seriously resonates deep within me.。
And there's this show that has become our favorite show that Monica and I watch.。
In fact, we came home early from date night the other day because we're like, Hey, let's。
just go home and, and watch another episode.。
And it's kind of Batman recreated.。
It's about a guy who leaves this city.。
He gets trained in all these martial arts and he gets all this equipment and returns。
to the city to fight evil and redeem the city and save the city.。
I want to save the city with all of you.。
We can be Batman, you know?。
And so this honestly, I mean, you could think about this.。
Okay.。
I do think this is something that resonates with us.。
I think this is why, you know, we get guys by guns and drive big trucks with big tires.。
You ever, I mean, in Dallas, right?。
He's like, dude, wait, why you got a big truck just in case someone gets stuck at the Galleria.。
I mean, come on, get stuck.。
Where?。
Six 35.。
I mean, what are we talking about?。
Stuck in traffic.。
You know, it's like we do this.。
We're like, man, I just want to be ready.。
It's why like Hummers, remember Hummers, everybody was buying Hummers before gas prices went way。
up.。
It's just like, there's something in us that's like, man, I just want something big and bad。
and just in case, you know?。
And uh, and so I was, this is how I was going to start the message exactly like this.。
And I showed up this morning to staff prayer like I do any Tuesday and Todd Wagner, our。
senior pastor begins staff prayers.。
This is what we do every Tuesday.。
Our staff prays for you guys and we gather and we pray and everything going on at watermark。
and whatnot.。
And, and uh, and he says, guys, this is how he starts that for guys today, you're going。
to meet Batman.。
And I was like, come on, he read my notes.。
And so essentially it was Gary Haugen.。
I don't know if you know who that is.。
He's the president of international justice mission.。
And so what Gary is responsible for setting more slaves free in 2014 than any other living。
human being.。
And so he works through attorneys, uh, to, uh, shut down brothels, both in the United。
States and overseas, all throughout Thailand and India and other places as well.。
He goes and he works through their judicial system, staying and remaining within the laws。
to shut these down and to put pimps in prison and people, slave owners in prison.。
This is what he does.。
And when we hear it, it resonates deep within us because you begin to get a glimpse of why。
you are alive.。
You begin to have a picture of why God left you here after he saved you.。
Slavery should not be sex trafficking should not be injustice should not be.。
I will stop it.。
I will be Batman like Gary and it, and it, while it resonates with us deeply, I believe。
we forget that the moment that someone kicks in the door, the brothel and sets the slaves。
free, there were thousands and thousands and thousands of hours behind the desk doing meaningless。
activity or what might feel like menial activity, rather timeless activity of working and studying。
and knowing what we need to do.。
And everyone wants a heroic moment, but very few are willing to live a heroic mission.。
And that is the call of the scripture, not that you would live for one heroic moment。
that you would, you know, get this opportunity where someone bows up around you or you see。
someone hit his girlfriend and you go and you like, yeah, you know, but that you would。
live a heroic mission every day of your life for the name and the glory of Jesus Christ,。
the one who died for you.。
This is the call of the believer.。
Somebody asked Mr. Hogan a question and just said, Hey, you know, sex trafficking is kind。
of the cool thing.。
Everybody wants to get involved.。
And he said, well, let me describe it to you.。
You can tell me if fighting it sounds cool to you.。
Can you imagine driving four hours in a vehicle to a, to another town, I think Houston or。
Lubbock and waiting in the DMV line for hours and doing that 60 times so many hours.。
In fact, in this one particular case represented 6,000 hours waiting on a judge in a courtroom,。
6,000 hours.。
You weren't even in high school, 6,000 hours so that these slaves could be set free.。
He goes, does that sound cool and fun and exciting and sexy?。
He said, because that's what we do.。
Yeah.。
You read in the headlines when we kicked down the doors, but you don't realize all the work。
that went into training Batman and equipping Batman.。
And if you're here and you have the Holy spirit, you have been equipped and trained to do such。
a thing as these for moments such as this, that we exist in very particular moments in。
the history of the world that God has kept you here to live and exist in that you would。
find your mission to fight evil, to be a vigilante of good.。
There are vigilantes in this room right now whom I know personally by day, they are civil。
engineers and consultants and school teachers, but when they're off, they are fighting evil。
in our city strategically and they're winning.。
They are experiencing victory in a way that you're naive to unaware of.。
They are setting sex slaves free, shutting down crack houses, putting drug Lords in prison。
in Dallas and in Fort worth.。
If you're tuning in around the country or in Houston or in Fort worth, we're talking。
about our city tonight.。
I want you to hear your city because we need lights shining in darkness in your city as。
well, just as I will call us in our city to shine in the darkness.。
And so we're talking about today, saving our city in a series called unashamed.。
This is week number two.。
Unashamed is based on a scripture in acts chapter one, verse eight, where it says this,。
I'll read it to you.。
It says, but you will receive power when the Holy spirit comes on you.。
This is Jesus talking to the disciples before he ascends to go and be with God.。
And so his last words to the disciples, this is the great commandment as it is found in。
the book of acts, but you will receive power when the Holy spirit comes on you and you。
will be my witnesses.。
It's the same word for martyrs.。
You will die for this mission in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the ends。
of the earth.。
And we take in that last section and broke it up into three weeks.。
Last week we talked about Jerusalem.。
That is the places that you go every day.。
That is your Starbucks.。
That is your grocery store.。
That is your school and your job.。
That is the path that you drive all the time that you would shine there, that you would。
be a light wherever you are.。
Today we're talking about Judea and Samaria.。
Samaria is a place that as Jesus's disciples would hear this, they would say, we don't。
even go there.。
Even though that's our area, an area, the size of relatively DFW, those are places we。
don't go to.。
He's saying, I'm calling you to go to those places now that you would intentionally and。
strategically be a light in dark places are Judea and Samaria places in DFW.。
Gary said this morning that a match, if struck, it's hard to see in a lit room, but it shines。
the brightest in darkness.。
Wherever there is light, darkness cannot coexist with it.。
If you will go intentionally to dark places and shine a light there, you will make a difference.。
If we do it together, you will, we will, God through us will change the world.。
Change the world.。
This evening we're going to talk about who is our neighbor.。
I'm going to give us several excuses that we use, essentially asking the question, what。
keeps us from being a neighbor?。
And then before you leave here this evening, how will we love our neighbors?。
I told you we would be in Luke 10.。
I'm going to start in verse 25, but to set this text up, I want you to know that Jesus,。
he gathers the 12 during his ministry and he sends them out and he tells them, pray。
to the God of the harvest for the harvest is plenty, but the workers are few and the。
12 come back.。
And then he sends out what we know of as the 72.。
We see this in Luke chapter 10 and he told them in Luke chapter 10, verse two, the harvest。
is plentiful, but the workers are few.。
Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore to send out workers into his harvest field.。
Go, I am sending you out like lambs among wolves, which would be terrifying unless we。
had the power of the Holy Spirit.。
So Jesus sends out the 12, then he sends out the 72 and tonight, 2014, he's going to send。
out the 2,500.。
I pray to God that he does, that you catch a vision of what a life on mission looks like.。
Everyone wants a heroic moment, but very few live a heroic mission.。
I pray that you would.。
Verse 25, on one occasion, an expert in the law stood up to test Jesus teacher.。
He asked, what must I do to inherit eternal life?。
We see this question throughout the scriptures.。
The same thing.。
The rich young ruler asked Jesus, what must I do to inherit eternal life?。
It's the same question you're asking Jesus, or you've asked Jesus at some point, what。
must I do to get into heaven?。
What must I do to be with you forever?。
Jesus, what do I got to do to get my reward at the end of this life?。
Now when you hear an expert in the law, do not think lawyer.。
Remember, they were in a theocracy, the Jews were.。
And so this is a person, an expert in Mosaic law, essentially an expert in the Bible.。
This is an Old Testament scholar that is quizzing Jesus.。
And it says that his motive is not to sincerely know what must I do to inherit eternal life.。
His motive is to test Jesus.。
That's why he's asking this question.。
Jesus, of course, being God, knows this.。
And he says this, what is written in the law?。
He replied, Jesus replied, how do you read it?。
Now Jesus would often answer questions in one of two ways, with a question or with a。
story.。
In this passage, he's going to do both.。
Here he answers with a question.。
What is written in the law?。
How do you read it?。
How do you read it was a question that rabbis were known to ask.。
How do you read it?。
How do you interpret that law?。
This is an expert in the law.。
Jesus says, how do you read it?。
He answered, love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with。
all your strength and with all your mind and love your neighbor as yourself.。
This is the great commandment.。
Earlier we looked at the great commission.。
This is the great commandment.。
Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind and strength and love your neighbor。
as yourself.。
Jesus said this.。
This is also in the law.。
If you don't know, Deuteronomy six says, love your, love the Lord your God with all your。
heart, soul, mind and strength.。
And then Leviticus 19 verse 18 says, love your neighbor as yourself.。
And Jesus said all of the law on the, of the prophets, which were 613 in number, Jesus。
being an amazing teacher, an expert on the law himself said all 613 of those laws can。
be summarized in these two.。
If you would just do these two.。
And so this guy answers with these two and Jesus says, you have answered correctly.。
Do this and you will live, which is interesting.。
I mean, Jesus just said, Hey, if you do this, you'll inherit eternal life.。
And we'd be like, wait a minute.。
You got to trust in Jesus.。
His death and resurrection.。
That hadn't happened yet.。
But also keep in mind that no one who can do that, who can love the Lord, their God。
with other hearts, soul, mind and strength and their neighbors themselves without the。
help of the Holy spirit, who can do that.。
But it says he wanted to justify himself.。
So he asked Jesus and who is my neighbor?。
Here's what's going on there.。
There's this expert in the law.。
He's there among his friends to the Jewish people or specifically to an expert in the。
law, his neighbors would have been maybe what you think of when you think of neighbor, those。
right beside him, the people who live next door.。
And so he says, the text says he wants to justify himself.。
This is what's happening.。
He's like, Hey Jacob, tell him how I mowed your lawn the other day.。
Tell him.。
Yeah.。
Yeah.。
I want to listen.。
Okay.。
Jesus, tell him who my neighbor is.。
Show them how I've done this so well.。
Maybe you're thinking that you're like, Oh man, you know, I did my roommate's dishes。
the other night, you know, even though they left them out, like they always do and they。
never take out the trash, but I took it out.。
This is what I did.。
Jesus justify me.。
Show them how I've loved my neighbor.。
He says, who is my neighbor?。
And replied, Jesus now answers with a story.。
A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho when he was attacked by robbers.。
They stripped him of his clothes.。
They beat him and went away, leaving him half dead.。
The road from Jerusalem to Jericho was 17 miles and it descends 3000 feet.。
So when it says he was going down, he was literally going down.。
This was a well-known road.。
It was full of robbers that was known.。
History shows us this just to show you how smart Jesus is, how, what a great teacher。
is and how this fits in history.。
Josephus, a historian from this time writes about this very same road.。
In fact, he talks about how Herod, King Herod had fired 40 of his employees and they went。
to be all 40 of them went to be robbers on this road.。
That this road was called the path of blood by some that many went here to die or to be。
bit beaten or robbed.。
It would have been foolish to be on this road, not on a donkey or riding something.。
And so Jesus is telling a story.。
It's a real story.。
I mean, it's a story that he's making up, but he sets it in their, their scene and their。
circumstance.。
A priest happened to be going down the same road.。
And when he saw the man, certainly he helps him, right?。
Because he's a priest and that's what priests do.。
No, he passed by on the other side.。
Okay.。
Now the priest is someone who the expert in the law would have resonated with, right?。
That would have been his hero.。
Oh, a priest.。
Okay, great.。
So a priest isn't what he does.。
What?。
Okay.。
So to a Levite.。
Now a Levite was a descendant from the tribe of Levi, but not of Aaron.。
So a priest would have been from the descendant of Aaron.。
A Levite would have been someone who helps the priest.。
Okay.。
So think pastor and youth minister or something.。
Right.。
And so a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him passed by on the other side, but。
a Samaritan as he traveled came where the man was.。
And when he saw him, he took pity on him.。
He went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine.。
Then he put the man on his own donkey, brought him to an inn and took care of him.。
The next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper.。
Look after him, he said.。
And when I return, I will reimburse you for any extra expense you may have.。
The story just got crazy scandalous.。
There's a thousand years of racism going on here for this man.。
The expert in the law would have hated a Samaritan.。
Jews at this time would go a day's travel out of the way to avoid any Samaritan village.。
Samaritans to them represented a time of sin, a time of that their people had mixed racially。
with people that they weren't supposed to interact with racially.。
And so the Samaritans were the offspring of this.。
They would have considered them half breeds.。
There was serious, serious racism going on.。
And so Jesus doesn't just put the Samaritan in the story.。
He makes him the hero.。
Now you've got to feel this, okay, to understand what's going on.。
You have a prejudice.。
Everyone here has a prejudice.。
I don't know what it is.。
That's the crazy thing about our prejudices that we're blind to them.。
We can't see them.。
And so who is it in the story for you?。
Who is it maybe for you?。
Jesus is telling the story and he's like, well, there's this pastor walks by and then。
there was this youth minister walks by and then there was a Muslim who came to this man。
and he took off his turban and he used it to bandage his wounds.。
Maybe your racism or your prejudice is it was a gay man.。
Gay man came up, homosexual guy came up and cared for this hurt guy.。
Maybe as a Baptist, maybe as a Catholic, maybe as an Aggie.。
Hey, don't go there.。
Right?。
What is your prejudice?。
What are you prejudiced towards?。
Who would it be?。
I want you to put them in.。
Maybe it's a Democrat.。
Maybe it's a Republican.。
Maybe it's Obama.。
Obama comes and man, you're like, what?。
He would never.。
I don't know.。
Maybe, right?。
I'm saying that's on you.。
I'm just saying hypothetically.。
Maybe you're like, it's a telemarketer.。
I don't know.。
Who are you prejudiced towards?。
Jesus puts that person in the story.。
He has your attention and he says, this one was more righteous than you.。
This one understands my commands.。
This one is more of a Christian than you ever thought you were.。
Jesus asked the question, which of these three do you think was a neighbor to the man who。
fell into the hands of robbers and the expert in the law replied, the one who had mercy。
on him.。
He couldn't even say Samaritan.。
He just says the one who had mercy on him and Jesus says, go and do likewise.。
He's calling us to show mercy to those that can do nothing for us in return.。
And so my first point, the first question rather I want to ask from this text is who。
is our neighbor?。
Who is our neighbor here in Dallas and in Fort Worth?。
Who is your neighbor?。
And it says that our neighbor is anyone in need around us.。
Anyone who has need around us, regardless of race, religion, background, or social status,。
think someone not like you, maybe someone that you're very unlikely to go up to and。
help.。
Maybe someone you're very intimidated by or someone you think you can't understand.。
And that is your neighbor.。
If they have need around you and you cannot miss this basic teaching of the Christian。
faith.。
You come here, then you say, I'm a Jesus follower.。
I'm a Christ follower.。
But you've missed this thing.。
You've missed it.。
You've missed something very key to the scripture.。
So what do you think of when you think of your city?。
When I think of Dallas, I think of pretentious, pretty, uptown, entrepreneurship.。
What do you think of?。
What would you write down when you think of Dallas?。
What would you write down?。
What would you list out?。
I think of business.。
I think of money.。
I think of nice cars and buildings.。
I think of clean and contemporary.。
But I love comics, particularly comics of vigilantes that display vigilantes because。
they often show the two tails of one city.。
They show the poor and the very rich and how they're connected by a bridge of crime and。
sex and drugs.。
And our city is no different.。
Our city has two sides.。
In fact, I'll tell you one, some statistics of an area less than five miles away, an area。
that when you travel to Fort Worth, you drive through.。
Our brothers and sisters in West Dallas, these come from the 2010 US Census Bureau, 67% of。
children born there are born to single moms.。
That's the vast majority born to single moms.。
This is in your city.。
The average per capita income is $9,183.。
37% of families are living below poverty level.。
70% of the adult population has less than a high school education.。
I need you to care about that, particularly if you're a teacher or you can read well because。
you can make a difference.。
You can be the solution.。
Only 2% of the population has a college degree, only 2%.。
60% of the population have no health insurance of any kind.。
Now let's just talk about Dallas in general because we're here.。
That is all about West Dallas.。
This comes from the Dallas Task Force 2012 study.。
This is your city.。
We are the nation's worst child.。
We have the nation's worst child poverty rate.。
I did say worst, not one of the worst, not among the worst.。
We have the worst child poverty rate in America.。
We're the second largest in growth of overall poverty rate from 2000.。
We're the third worst overall poverty rate at 24%, but our poverty rate grew by 41%.。
It is a growing problem.。
It's getting worse here in our city.。
And this is a quote, "The poverty level in the Dallas Independent School District is。
one of the highest in the country, higher than New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Houston,。
and Detroit.。
In the last 12 years, the Dallas population has increased by 5% in the same amount of。
time those living in Dallas and poverty has increased 41%."。
Crime is absolutely on the rise in your city.。
94% of American cities are safer than Dallas.。
And this was in the Dallas Morning News yesterday.。
Are you ready?。
Dallas County is the deadliest place for a woman in Texas last year.。
The new report says, "Dallas County is the single deadliest place in our country for。
a woman to live."。
We have a $99 million sex trafficking industry right here among us.。
In fact, there is a brothel half a mile away that we are completely oblivious to as we。
sit in this room and we read from the scriptures from a man who tells us to go and care for。
the least of these.。
Fort Worth, I wish I had a better story for you.。
There's lots of grim stats, particularly in the past 12 months.。
Oppression for you is up 12%.。
Homelessness is up 60%.。
That comes from the Star-Telegram and CBS.。
Crime is on the rise in Fort Worth.。
Violent sex acts are on the rise in your city.。
And one of the most impoverished areas in DFW is right across the street from where。
you are right now.。
And I know that you'll go to these areas when it's cool to do so, when it's hip and trendy。
to do so.。
You go to Bishop Hearts or Trinity Grove and call it a mission trip.。
It's there on mission.。
Eating food, having fun on mission.。
Go to the Fairmount, wherever that is for you.。
But all we're doing is we're taking less people that we might consider less fortunate than。
us and we're just moving them.。
We're just going there and we're raising real estate prices and they have nowhere else to。
go.。
They just kind of continue to shift around.。
It's a shell game.。
We're not actually solving the problem.。
It's called gentrification.。
If that's a word that's new to you, look it up later, Google it or something, but it's。
something that you need to know.。
We're not actually helping them.。
We're hurting them by mobilizing wealthy into those areas, not caring for them, not meeting。
where they're at.。
We're waiting until they're hip and trendy and then we'll move there.。
But you might need to move there right now.。
But that's unsafe.。
The gospel's unsafe.。
You know those 12 guys, they all died, right?。
You know, not of old age.。
Not of natural causes.。
They were murdered.。
Seven of them were murdered.。
These are examples.。
This is how we know the gospel.。
And so what prevents us from being a neighbor to those in need?。
My second question from this text, what prevents us from being a neighbor to those in need?。
I believe that when you see the hurting, every human being has an impulse reaction, an instinct。
that responds to the hurting, depending where you are on a spiritual chart, where you are。
with God or where you are, maybe you're an atheist, and where you are with morality.。
You respond in one of three ways.。
The first one is to hurt them, okay?。
And you say, "Well, who responds this way?"。
People do indeed, to take advantage of those.。
You do so usury.。
And some of you guys are like, "I would never do that."。
You do every single time you've looked at porn.。
You're taking advantage of someone in a situation we might consider unfortunate.。
Someone that grew up in a parentless home or someone that grew up with resources that。
you do not have available to you, you are exploiting them.。
You are part of the sex trafficking problem when you go to a strip club, okay?。
And so one impulse would be to hurt, to take advantage of that situation for your own personal。
benefit.。
Another one would be to help.。
I see someone in need.。
I want to be a good Samaritan.。
I will be mobilized to them to understand their need, to identify their need, and to。
meet their need.。
And the third one is to ignore it.。
All three of those responses are represented in the room tonight.。
There are those of you that when you see an opportunity, you're opportunistic, you want。
to take advantage of it.。
You want to see how you can get it to benefit yourself, how you can make money or profit。
from it, how you can find pleasure in it.。
You want to hurt them.。
Or those of you move to compassion and you say, "Well, when I see someone in need, I。
want to help them.。
I want to render aid.。
I want to go to where there is need and help."。
And so many of us in the room say, "JP, just let me get back to my normal life in my city.。
Let me just respond.。
Let me just be naive to this stuff.。
I don't want to hear there's a brothel half a mile away.。
I might have to do something about that.。
Don't tell me these statistics.。
JP, I'm numb to statistics.。
You just read a bunch of percentages my heart had no response to because I have been ignoring。
it for so long.。
I don't care that people can't read.。
I don't care that people are poor.。
I don't care that people are hungry.。
I don't care that girls in my city are being raped for sport.。
I don't care.。
I just want to sit comfortably on my couch and watch my TV and make my money and drive。
my car and go to the party.。
Why are you trying to interrupt that?"。
I'm not.。
The Holy Spirit is.。
And so why don't we help those in need?。
Because one, we're too busy.。
It's inconvenient.。
It doesn't fit in our agenda.。
It takes time.。
And to be a good neighbor, we must make margin to be a good neighbor.。
Some of you, to make margin sounds like an impossible, daunting task.。
How do I make margin?。
How do I create time?。
You have to follow Jesus as you're following Christ.。
I'm not saying to get into heaven.。
But to follow Jesus, you have to create margin to care for those in need.。
Secondly, I believe that we focus too much on orthodoxy rather than orthopraxy.。
Two big words, let me define them.。
Orthodoxy, ortho just means right.。
Doxy means belief.。
Ortho means correct or right.。
Doxy means belief, or we get the word doctrine.。
And so the orthodoxy, that's the head knowledge.。
And so to be a Christian, it is lived out.。
We live out knowledge.。
We always respond and act according to our belief that you're orthopraxy, right practice。
or right action.。
And so this man, this expert in the law, he had a high orthodoxy.。
Do not forget that he won the question.。
I mean, he won the sword drill.。
He won the quiz, if you will.。
Jesus said, how do you read it?。
He responds, "Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength.。
Love your neighbor as yourself."。
Jesus says, correct, ding, ding, ding.。
You've got it right.。
You know a lot of Bible.。
You've got some memory verses.。
You study the scriptures.。
And all of this head knowledge has missed your heart because you do not respond to it.。
Your heart has been calloused.。
You've been a Christian so long that you forgot what it means to be a Christian.。
You've been taking in information and not doing anything with it.。
We have an orthodoxy, but we do not have an orthopraxy.。
We do not live it out.。
You even heard those words before.。
You even heard the sermon before.。
In your heart, you're rolling your eyes like, I know what those words, orthodoxy, orthopraxy.。
You've got to wake up.。
The priest and the Levite, keep in mind, they're coming back from Jerusalem because they've。
been in the temple.。
Do you know that it would have been against their religious duty to help a bloody man。
who would have been unclean?。
They couldn't.。
Their religion wouldn't allow them to, which is so convicting to me because I remember。
a day that so much of my life was geared toward serving the poor and the widow and the orphan.。
It seemed like every time I turned around, I was going on an international trip or just。
traveling around here.。
And now I've gotten religious.。
Now I've always got to study the Bible to teach the Bible.。
And the orthodoxy is growing.。
The orthopraxy is being hurt in my own life.。
But God says this is the religion he wants, James 1, verse 27.。
Religion that God our Father accepts as pure and faultless as this to look after orphans。
and widows in their distress and to keep oneself from being polluted by the world.。
Religion that God our Father accepts as pure and faultless as this to look after orphans。
and widows in their distress and to keep oneself from being polluted by the world.。
Why don't we do this?。
Thirdly, because we are focused on our comfort, not compassion.。
We are focused on our comfort like compassion.。
We're just like the priest.。
We're like the Levite.。
We don't want to get dirty because make no mistake about it, if you pick up a bloody。
man who has been stripped of his clothes, you're going to get dirty.。
Make no mistake about it.。
It takes time and effort to love people who are different than you.。
And you might get messy.。
You might get dirty as you enter into their lives and as you get to know them and as you。
build a relationship from a pure heart, it might cost you something.。
And we'd rather have comfort than display or be given to compassion.。
I'll give you a real example of this.。
Just occurred, you know, when Ebola came to Dallas, it was just like mad, madness.。
Like people were worried and anxious and am I going to get it?。
And this is very ironic to me for a number of reasons.。
But do you understand that in the first century church that Christians would have heard that。
Ebola came to their city and they would have moved towards that?。
They'd have been like, where?。
We've got to go render aid.。
That's what we're here for.。
That's why we live.。
We've got to go help out.。
And you say, but they would get it and they would die.。
And they would say, exactly.。
Don't you know?。
That's how Christianity blew up in the first, second and third centuries, right?。
Christians were loving those that had been hit by a plague that was killing them.。
Up in Rome, 5,000 daily dying and everyone left and their families left and everyone。
who loved them left and Christians moved in so that they would exchange their health for。
that person's comfort as they died.。
And we hear it and it's moving, but we don't want it for ourselves.。
And the world asks, who loves like this?。
And they say, Jesus, Jesus.。
Don't you know the gospel?。
That he loved me so much that he died for me so that I might live.。
And so I'm just a little Jesus in the first, second, third, fourth century.。
Christians live this out.。
We'll just be little Christ.。
And it's somehow in the comfort of Dallas.。
The DFW, we've forgotten that.。
And we hear Ebola and we're on Google and reading articles and can you catch it?。
Can it spread through the air?。
Should I wear a SARS mask or something?。
What do I need to do?。
I'm terrified.。
You know what it means to be a superhero.。
Like everyone in Acts 1, 8, when the power of the Holy Spirit comes to you, you know。
that you've got this superpower, it's the greatest superpower known to man, you became。
immortal.。
You know that?。
That anybody here who's trusted in Christ in the room, you don't die, you live forever。
and ever and ever, that's kind of what we believe.。
Like the greatest day that you will ever live will be the day that you go to live and be。
with the Lord forever and ever and ever.。
It only gets better for you, believer.。
You know that, right?。
Like you get up there and you're like, he's like, "What happened?"。
Caught Ebola.。
"Oh, you're so stupid.。
How, you know, didn't you wear the mask?"。
You know?。
This is why, I don't know if you know this or realize this or have thought about it,。
this is why hospitals have church's names on the top of them.。
This is why you go to St. Jude's or Presbyterian Hospital or United Methodist Hospital, you。
know, all of these names are tied back to the scripture or some denomination.。
This is why, because hospitals were born out of Christian movements.。
It was Christians who were loving sick people.。
They were going and moving toward them and saying, "Hey, how can I care for you in time。
of need?"。
And then these institutions were built and then hospitals exist and you drive through。
Dallas or Fort Worth or Houston or wherever you're at and you look at these hospitals。
and they have some church's name on the top of them.。
Why?。
Because they were founded by churches because it's churches who care for the sick.。
Like some of you, you're hearing that for the first time, your mind's kind of blown,。
you're like, "Well, I never had thought about that."。
It's us, we're the one setting the pace.。
And it's going to be, and you've got to hear me, it's going to be lost in your generation.。
It's going to be lost in your generation as you seek comfort over compassion.。
This will be gone in millennials and Gen Y because, man, we're all about having fun and。
a good time and tolerance and, man, how can we just raise the bar on freedom and doing。
what we want to do?。
Meanwhile, people in your city are dying and you're so Christian you forgot what it means。
to be Christian.。
I'm not unashamed.。
I'm ashamed.。
What happened to us?。
What's going on in our generation, guys?。
I asked Todd, I was with him the day and I just said, "Man, how do you think this,"。
because I've seen your pastor here if you don't know who that is, "How do you think。
this goes?。
Like, do you think we wake up?。
You think revival happens?。
You think an awakening happens?。
You think our hearts return back to God or do you think this is Him removing His hand。
from us and we fall off?"。
And the world that our, the America that our children grow up in is a very different America,。
very dark, dark America.。
He said, "It depends on how you preach tonight."。
Here's what he's saying.。
"It depends on how you respond.。
It depends on what you do with it.。
Do not lose our country, guys, out of convenience and comfort, forgetting your missions, forsaking。
your mission."。
The third question from this text is, "How can we be good neighbors?"。
How can we be good neighbors?。
The expert asked, "Who are my neighbors?"。
And Jesus responds with a very different answer.。
He says, "This is what it looks like to be a good neighbor."。
The guy asked, "Who are my neighbors?"。
Jesus says, "Hey, if you do this, then you are a neighbor."。
And He's saying, as He's displaying through the Good Samaritan, that it starts with compassion.。
This word in the Greek is a unique word.。
It only shows up a couple times in the New Testament.。
And it's a strange word.。
It's hard to explain.。
It has in it your bowels because they believe that this is something that happened from。
deep within you.。
It essentially is saying when the Good Samaritan saw Him, He was kicked in the gut.。
He was stopped in His tracks.。
It's the same word that we see when the prodigal son comes home and the father has compassion。
on him and he runs out to him and he restores him back to his inheritance.。
It's the same word.。
He says he's moved with compassion.。
It starts simply by us actually caring.。
We talked last week about engaging and sharing and inviting.。
And it's the same this week, that you would engage with someone, that you would care to。
know them, that you would share truth in trying to assess their need, and then you would invite。
them to where their need can be found.。
Or met, rather.。
Where their need can be met.。
Let me explain what I mean by assess their need because this is important.。
Before you leave here, you have to get this.。
When I say assess their need, what their stated need is might not be their actual need.。
Like when a guy says, "Hey, I need a dollar," that may be the very worst thing for him.。
And to find out what is the best thing for him is going to take a relational interaction.。
It's going to take time and effort and sincere compassion and actually caring.。
The very easiest thing for you to do might be to hand a dollar.。
Let me explain.。
When you go to the doctor and you say, "My leg hurts," the doctor doesn't just put a。
cast on it.。
The doctor says, "Hey, does this hurt?"。
He pokes and prods and you may have a torn muscle, you may have a pulled muscle, it may。
be something else that a cast wouldn't heal.。
And so you don't just go, "Hey, my leg hurts.。
Okay, let's put a cast on it."。
You say, "Hey, let's assess the problem.。
Let's find out what's really going on."。
And so when you're talking to someone and you say, "Hey, what's going on, man?。
I'm just looking for money."。
"Cool, what are you looking for money for?"。
"Well, I'm hungry."。
"Cool, can I buy you food?"。
"No, I don't want food."。
"Okay, let me understand.。
You're looking for money for food, but you don't want me to buy you food?"。
"No."。
"Okay, that doesn't add up.。
Let's talk.。
Hey, do you know Christ?"。
"Yeah, yeah, man, I know him.。
Let me tell you.。
You know, this is what I know."。
And you're engaged in these conversations.。
Let's talk about it.。
When I first understood this, I made it a goal to, or I used to, when people would come。
up to me as a non-believer, it would always be, "Hey, sorry, dude, only got credit cards.。
Only credit cards."。
Then I realized I was lying as I became a believer.。
I'm like, "Okay, that's probably not good.。
I shouldn't lie."。
And so then I'd make it a game to engage first.。
Whenever I saw someone kind of doing it at the gas station, going from car to car, you。
know, I would just engage, "Hey, bro, come here.。
Hey, come on.。
Hey, what are you doing, man?。
Talk to me, man.。
I'm pumping gas.。
I want to hear your story.。
I saw you talking to people, man.。
What do you need?。
What's going on?。
You know, let's talk about it."。
As soon as I committed to doing this, like right after I committed to doing this, I bumped。
up against one gentleman, or he was at a gas station kind of going from car to car.。
I yelled across the parking lot, "Hey, come talk to me.。
Hey, man, listen, come and talk to me.。
Hey, man, are you hungry?。
Can I help you?。
You want something?。
Let me buy you some food."。
"No, dude, I'm not hungry.。
I'm full.。
I just ate."。
I'm like, "Cool, didn't see that coming, but all right.。
What else is going on?"。
And he begins to share with me, and I say, "Let me ask you a question, bro.。
Hey, do you know that God loves you so much?"。
He says, "Yeah."。
Hebrews 13, 2, and he walks off.。
And I'm like, "What is Hebrews 13, 2?"。
I'll read it to you.。
"Do not forget to show hospitality to strangers, for by doing so, some people have shown hospitality。
to angels without knowing it."。
I don't know, man.。
Dude said, "Hebrews 13, 2," and then he disappeared.。
No, he didn't.。
I'm just playing.。
He didn't disappear.。
I'm just kidding.。
Find people who can do nothing for them, for us, rather, and we assess their need, and。
we meet that need.。
Hey, guys, does this sound familiar?。
Is this not what Jesus Christ did for you?。
If you're here and you're a follower of Jesus Christ, at some point, you were flat on your。
back, you realized you could do nothing for your own salvation, and you understood that。
someone in spite of you died on your behalf, that they paid your eternal price in your。
place.。
This was Jesus Christ.。
This is love, that when you could do nothing for him in return, he took you, and he cleaned。
you up, and he loved you, and he cared for you so much that he endured every piece of。
pornography you looked at, every dude you slept with, everything that you've done wrong,。
every time you've been drunk, every curse word you've said, every movie you've seen。
that you shouldn't have, every concert you've gone to, and he died for it to set you free。
so that you could be with God forever.。
It is the gospel.。
It's 1 John 3, verse 16 and 17, says this.。
This is how we know what love is.。
Jesus Christ laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for our brothers。
and sisters.。
If anyone has material possessions and sees a brother or sister in need but has no pity。
on them, how can the love of God be in that person?。
I'm asking you now, what if contemporary Christianity is not what Jesus had in mind at all?。
That we would go to these places and enjoy fun and fellowship, and then we'd go home。
and live our lives, and then we'd go back and enjoy fun and fellowship, and we'd be。
like, "Is the speaker good?。
Is the worship good?。
Are the seats comfortable?。
Do they have coffee?"。
What if that's just not what Jesus had in mind?。
I don't think it is, by the way.。
I've kind of spent some time reading this book, and I think he had something really,。
really different in mind.。
He never wanted to create an audience but an army.。
At the porch, we are not an audience.。
We are an army, an army of vigilantes that exist to live within the law to fight evil.。
We do so by day and night wherever we are, not just shining a light where we are, but。
we go to darkness.。
We run towards it, and we shine lights there.。
We change it.。
We are the solution.。
We are his plan A, and there's no plan B. I've seen people do this here.。
My friends Chital and Christy, two ordinary girls here.。
Their hearts stirred with compassion around a problem that they saw in their city, and。
they said, "We will give our lives to solving it.。
We'll do everything within our power to extinguish that problem."。
And it's not brute force.。
Everybody thinks about kicking in some door and bursting in.。
It takes brains.。
It takes smarts.。
It takes the gifts and the talents that you've been entrusted.。
You say, "What can I do?。
I don't know."。
Some people say, "What can we do?"。
Others say, "What can we do?"。
You might need to paint a picture or write a song, write a story, write a blog.。
You might need to go to some place you've never been.。
You might need to tutor some kid in math.。
Maybe you're good at math.。
They need math tutors.。
Maybe brute force is what you bring to the table.。
We need that too.。
We need that too.。
I don't know what you have to offer.。
Ryan Wall, normal dude, man, just a regular porch goer, stumbled in here, heard an announcement。
where we needed someone to go to South Dallas to build a playground.。
He went building a playground, met Chris.。
Chris said, "Hey, come to Nicaragua with me."。
Ryan said, "Okay."。
They go overseas serving the poor.。
They come back to Dallas.。
Ryan's like, "We got to do this here."。
Goes to Haiti with me, catches a vision for what it looks like to serve your city and。
starts to immobilize young adults, regular people just like you who are in the room right。
now who said, "We will be vigilantes in our city.。
We will fight evil in our city."。
They just go throughout the city working with our trusted ministry partners to care for。
the poor, to care for the widows, to fight sex trafficking, to care for those that have。
been taken advantage of, to care for the fatherless.。
They say, "We will give our lives to this.。
We will do this instead of the club, instead of the bar, instead of whatever the world。
is.。
How do I create margins?"。
Start doing that stupid stuff and start doing this.。
Turn off the TV, shut the book maybe, and start making war because it's going on with。
or without you.。
I need some of you to step in the game.。
You're like, "Okay, what can I do?"。
Some of you have moved to West Dallas.。
Maybe you should do that.。
Some of you begin to mentor kids through Mercy Street Ministries.。
Maybe you could do that.。
Some of you have begun to coach their games.。
Maybe you're just a good referee or an umpire and work through Mercy Street to do that.。
Some of you have gone to Brother Bill's.。
My boy Phil goes to Brother Bill's for the first time, raises a bunch of money and people.。
It's a free grocery store for those that are in need.。
He starts delivering these groceries with Molly and Jennifer.。
They go to this one man's house and they share the gospel.。
Now the man's a believer.。
He trusted in Christ and he's going to be in heaven with them one day.。
Now they're friends.。
You're sitting on the outside.。
You're watching this, being entertained like the angels.。
That's the angels' entertainment, not your entertainment.。
We're to be a part of the game, a part of the solution.。
Maybe you can volunteer as a mentor or tutor the students in our partner Cornerstone School,。
Crossroads Academy.。
My friend Christy Lichtenberg works, one of my heroes, who drives down to South Dallas。
from Carrollton every single day against popular opinion.。
She's been shot at, fought, cursed at.。
Tiny little woman who said, "Man, these kids need someone to love them.。
I'll do it.。
I'll give my life to this."。
Maybe you join hundreds of young adults serving in Second Saturday, which just happens to。
be this Saturday, to help rebuild our cities in some areas, some of the poorest areas in。
our community.。
You can sign up in the Welcome Center.。
And I have a specific thing that you can do tonight is you can go to an unashamed meeting。
in the loft and you can hear more of Ryan Walsh's story, more of how God has used him。
as we're going to do another unashamed weekend.。
Maybe that's step one.。
If you're like, "Hey, I don't know the gifts and the talents that the Lord has entrusted。
me to use," you go to your Find Your Mission class.。
It's Monday.。
This Monday, 7.30 or 7 p.m., I believe.。
More information there on the Porch app.。
That's step one.。
If you've done that and you're like, "Hey, I know what I'm supposed to do," you go to。
unashamed because here's the deal.。
You were made for this.。
It's why God left you here.。
You were equipped for such a time as this.。
Let me explain and I'll close.。
I'll wrap up.。
I love motorcycles.。
Weird thing to say.。
I always have as long as I could drive.。
I've always liked motorcycles.。
I've always had one.。
I've had over 20, just truth be told.。
I really like the idea of motorcycles.。
I don't ride them anymore because I've come to the light.。
I'm now a scooter man.。
Scooters are better.。
Here's what happened.。
I was on a motorcycle once and I hit a pothole.。
That's just bad news on a motorcycle.。
I went airborne and then I was kind of shaking up and I was like, "I don't want to ride motorcycles。
anymore."。
I came to scooters.。
There's one particular scooter.。
I'm going somewhere with this.。
I'm Batman.。
There's one particular scooter that I really like.。
It's called the Big Ruckus.。
I had it.。
It has these big tires, big fat knobby tires.。
It's like this all steel frame, these huge shocks.。
It's kind of this off-road scooter.。
It's really industrial scooter, something Batman would drive.。
When I had it, I would notice that I was driving and I was once afraid of these potholes, but。
I realized that as I was driving down the road and I see potholes on my Big Ruckus,。
I'd kind of move toward them because potholes on the Ruckus are fun.。
Why?。
Because it's built for such a thing.。
That's you.。
If you're here and you have the power of the Holy Spirit, you've been built for such a。
thing and you're wasting your life if you don't go and shine light in dark areas.。
You're like a dirt bike on 635, which I saw the other day, and it looked very out of place.。
It's out of place.。
That's not where you belong.。
You can be there by day, but when you're off, you go and you find people in need and you。
meet that need.。
You engage with them and you care for them and you build relationships with them because。
you have been equipped for this.。
You have been invited into being Batman, being greater than Batman.。
You are immortal.。
Batman wasn't immortal.。
You will live forever.。
Let me pray.。
Father, I pray that you would stir our hearts around such a message.。
As Jesus sent out the 12 and then the 72, I pray tonight, Lord, that you would send。
out the 2,500.。
2,500 young adults just like the apostles, just like the disciples, armed with the Holy。
Spirit and the Word and gifts and talents that you've entrusted to them for such a time。
as this.。
Father, help us not to waste our lives, but to live it for you, loving you with all of。
our heart and our soul and our mind and our strength and loving our neighbor as ourself.。
I love how you said as ourself.。
You knew how narcissistic we would be, that we would love our neighbor as we love ourself.。
Would you help us do that in Jesus' name?。
Amen.。
They're going to read about you in history books.。
It's a fact.。
Will be a fact.。
They're going to read about you in history books.。
It will read something like this millennial generation rose up and tried to overcorrect。
something from its parents' generation.。
They were inoculated to truth that they stopped believing and they lost our country to values。
that were very different than the values that our country was built on.。
Or it will read this generation rose up and corrected something they saw in their parents。
and they returned a nation's values back to the very values that it was built on.。
And I promise there's enough of you in this room to make a difference.。
If you don't believe me, try me.。
Try me.。
We're doing everything we can with affinity groups and Unashamed.。
We're doing everything we can to reproduce disciples that will reproduce disciples so。
that you would give your life away for this cause.。
And if we can help you, if there's anything special you think, "Hey, I'm a really special。
case and need some really special attention," fine.。
We're open, we're ready, we're willing.。
Let's talk.。
Let's figure it out.。
[silence]。
