[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
All right, Porsche, how are we doing?。
We doing okay tonight?。
It's awesome.。
Great to see you.。
You look good as always.。
Love what God's doing here in Dallas.。
And so glad that you would give us your time on a Tuesday night to be a part of what He is doing here.。
But not just those of you in the room.。
Also, everybody that is online and tuning in this evening or in the future, we're really glad that you would be here with us.。
Special shout out to all of our Porsche Live locations.。
Porsche Live Wheaton, Midland, and Boise.。
Special shout out to y'all tonight.。
Well, in 2017, I found myself standing on the cusp of a legitimately life-altering, trajectory-shaping decision that would shape my future forever as I knew it.。
I was considering proposing to one Brooke Nicole Gadesa.。
Which was a huge deal for me for a couple of reasons.。
Number one, I'm not an event planner.。
I'm pretty bad at it.。
And a proposal, fellas, if you're listening, is a major event that you're probably going to need some help with.。
Number two, the second thing that I knew is I was about to step into making a decision that was not just big, but the biggest decision as well as the biggest purchase I had ever made in my life.。
And so I was kind of weighing through whether or not I was ready to go for it.。
And yet as I evaluated all the variables, I knew it was time.。
She was the one.。
Now, going into the proposal, I wanted everything to be perfect.。
I wanted there to be no hiccups whatsoever.。
And so I made a clear plan that I could follow along and check off as I went.。
So I went ahead and I booked the venue.。
I coordinated with all of our friends.。
I made sure that they were there in the area.。
I talked to our families, her parents and our siblings, and I hid them there on site so that way she could see them whenever the proposal happened.。
I booked a photographer.。
I hid that person in plain sight so they could get all the best action shots as we were making our way to the spot where it would actually happen.。
And I would pop the question.。
I prep decorations.。
I went to incredible lengths to make this event one that was perfect.。
Like I wanted it to be the best proposal possible.。
But if that was not enough, I had one ace up my sleeve.。
You see, over the course of our dating relationship, which was three years, don't judge me.。
She had never heard from me, nor had any woman whom I dated ever heard from me those three fateful words.。
I love you.。
And I was prepared to say those words to her in this moment because she was the one and only one person I ever wanted to communicate these words to.。
So to set the scene, the moment finally comes.。
The sun is setting. I had timed golden hour perfectly.。
The sky is watercolor red and orange, that perfect spot where the clouds had rolled in and the sun had dipped behind them and everything lit up beautifully.。
And I had made sure that we were walking at the perfect cool of the day, pond to our right, serene setting, geese swimming, hand in hand, making our way to what was a gazebo decorated in twinkling lights.。
And as we walked up those steps, it occurred to her what was happening, which was the best gift for me because I had achieved my final check.。
It was a surprise. She had no idea whatsoever.。
And so as we make our way into the gazebo, there are framed pictures that marked the key moments and memories over the course of our relationship.。
I had littered the area with white tulips, her favorite flower, and tea candles just to set the ambiance.。
And so I grabbed her by the hand and I look her in the eye and I bend to one knee.。
And as I pull the ring from my pocket, I forgot everything I was about to say.。
Namely, I forgot to say, I love you.。
I managed to pull the proposal off, but I had waited my entire life at that point, 25 years to propose to this woman.。
And I had never said these words, reserved them exclusively for this hour.。
And I totally blanked on it.。
All of the drama, all of the buildup, all of the hype over the course of my life for nothing.。
Now, do you think she questioned whether I loved her or not?。
No, of course not. We had history.。
And yet, do you think she wanted to hear those words that she knew I had reserved very exclusively for this person, which happened to be her?。
Yes, of course she did. So much so that she reminded me in the moment,。
"Aren't you forgetting something? I love you."。
You know, it was like that kind of moment.。
You see, she was not in question about the fact that I loved her, but she wanted to hear the expression that embodied our experience over the course of the last couple of years.。
You see, she knew those words, they meant something.。
They launched the two of us into a whole new way of life.。
Like, by way of me saying that and identifying a new kind of relationship,。
we were stepping into a situation where we were pursuing a new sort of reality,。
where we were living a new life together.。
We had a new future to find. Our purpose had been redefined in a moment.。
Now, why do I tell you all that?。
Because I am increasingly convinced that while many of us know Jesus loves us, we do not live like Jesus loves us.。
You see, everything has in fact not changed.。
And so here tonight, what I want to do is I want to speak those fateful few words to those of you here listening right now.。
I want to bring you in on one of the greatest passages declaring the love of God for you,。
because I want to move you past simply the facts of the gospel into the kind of feeling those facts。
where you not only know the love of God, but you feel the love of God in your life.。
That's what I want to do.。
And to do it, we're going to listen to the Apostle Paul in his letter to the Ephesians.。
So if you have a Bible, you can grab it and you can turn with me to the book of Ephesians.。
Here's why we're doing this right now.。
Last week, we finished a series, great series, series on joy.。
Next week, we're starting a brand new series.。
And as we were considering what's going to happen in the middle of those two things,。
I just considered praying to God, what is most important for these people?。
And I sensed the Lord tell me, "Kylin, just tell them that I love them."。
And my response was, "God, they probably know that.。
We've been singing about your love for us since we were small children, more than likely.。
We know you love us, God. Give us something more profound."。
And in that moment, I felt immense conviction.。
What do you mean more profound?。
Faith, hope, and love, these three remain, but the greatest of these is love.。
Why, God? Why is it the greatest?。
Because though you need faith now, you will not need it forever.。
You will see me face to face.。
Though hope is needed now, you will not need hope forever,。
because you will be with me in heaven as your home for all eternity.。
And yet love never ends.。
And it begins right now.。
So many of us do not feel like love has actually begun.。
Our experience does not jive with what we know the scriptures subscribe.。
Instead, what we often hear is a form of Christianity that feels more synonymous for you and I,。
of just living above average in our morality.。
We're dealing with the nagging guilt of missing another quiet time.。
Or rationalizing our sin because, man, it's not that big of a deal,。
and it feels good whenever I frequent it,。
and so I'm going to keep it over here as a little bit of a pet.。
Or we feel that shameful feeling of not really wanting to share the gospel with anybody.。
We know we should, but man, that's kind of something that someone else can do.。
This is more synonymous with our Christian experience,。
rather than the thrill of a theology that tells us God radically, wildly, crazily loves you.。
We have a kind of Christian experience that does not jive with the truth。
that there's a rush of relationship in walking with Jesus.。
I want to give you back the thrill.。
I want to give you back the rush.。
I want to imbue you with all the vitality and vibrancy and energy。
that your relationship to God is supposed to be filled with.。
I want to get you out of knowing and playing make-believe。
and into experiencing and realizing that all of this is true.。
Because I think too often we move through life,。
and we act the part, but we do not feel the part.。
And as we come to chapter 3 in Paul's letter to the Ephesians,。
it's the perfect place to unpack this idea。
because Paul is writing to a group of people。
that are living in this massive city called Ephesus.。
Ephesus was the center of trade in the ancient Greco-Roman world.。
It was the epicenter for Greek and Roman idol worship,。
meaning it was this massive city with a group of young adults。
whom Paul is writing to that is built around big business,。
materialism, and sexual opportunity.。
Sound familiar?。
Paul is writing to a group of people in that sort of context,。
and it's to them that he says,。
"Hey, the world is promising you so much else,。
satisfaction in all these other places,。
and yet it's only actually found in Jesus."。
You see, the climax of history is not in what you have materially.。
It's not in where you live.。
It's not in what you do occupationally.。
It's not in what you actually--what kind of pleasure you find.。
It's found in Jesus.。
All of history has been pointing to this man,。
and it's for very good reason.。
And as we come to chapter 3, we see Paul.。
He pivots in his letter.。
He goes from chapters 1 and 2 where it's all orthodoxy,。
what scholars identify as a focus on doctrine,。
and he moves into orthopraxy after chapter 3.。
He moves into chapters 4 and 5, and he starts talking about orthopraxy.。
He starts to tell us how we're supposed to live.。
In chapters 1 and 2, he only gives us one command.。
He just tells you to remember.。
Remember what?。
Remember the details of the gospel,。
the fact that Jesus, he has stepped into our reality。
to defeat our enemy, to take out our sin,。
to pay the cost of that on the cross,。
to unite us to himself,。
to be identified with us and have us identified with him,。
and he is building a multi-ethnic community.。
That's what Jesus has done.。
And yet before he moves on and tells us,。
"In light of all that, here's what you should now do,"。
he stops.。
He actually gets distracted。
because he wants you and me to know what these verses say.。
And so, in Ephesians 3, 14 and 16, he says this.。
He says, detailing how crazy God's love is for his people,。
he says, "For this reason, I bow my knees before the Father,。
"from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named,。
"that according to the riches of his glory,。
"he may grant you to be strengthened with power。
"through his Spirit in your inner being."。
We'll stop right there.。
Like, you might read this or hear it read to you。
and it sounds like typical Bible,。
and yet what you need to know is this is pretty melodramatic,。
even for the apostle Paul.。
Like, he could have just said,。
"I pray to God that you would know you're loved."。
Go in peace, to love, and serve the Lord, everybody.。
But he doesn't do that.。
He goes to an incredible level of detail,。
a Shakespearean level of speech。
to articulate the depth of affection that God has for us.。
Why would he do that?。
Well, why do men, or did men, speak poetry to their beloved?。
(audience laughing)。
Because men, not only then, but still today,。
are bad at communicating their feelings.。
It's not something that we are necessarily good at.。
I will speak as one ambassador for the male population.。
(audience laughing)。
And so, because we care deeply about that person,。
we know I cannot run the risk of speaking in a way。
that will fall short of my feelings.。
No, mere words will not suffice.。
I must express my feelings instead.。
That's what Paul is doing.。
He's not just reciting facts about the way that God loves you.。
He's pouring out his heart。
so you might know just how wildly you're loved.。
Listen to it.。
"For this reason, I bow my knees before the Father,。
"from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named,。
"that according to the," what?。
"The riches of his glory, he might grant you。
"to be strengthened with power through his Spirit。
"in your inner being."。
Do you hear it?。
That's a lot.。
Like, the guy has a flair for the dramatic,。
and yet he is doing all of this。
because he just simply wants us to know。
this is how wildly you're loved,。
which raises another question for us.。
Why does he feel the need to do this?。
Like, why does he need to up the ante,。
pour on the passion?。
Because he knows,。
while it would be easier to just say, "You're loved,"。
he knows, while we know that,。
we don't actually often believe it.。
Sure, we know the nursery rhymes.。
We've learned the Bible stories.。
We've listened to the testimonies。
of how God has reached in,。
and he has saved people。
from the depth of their own despair,。
and yet, despite knowing it all,。
when we get honest with ourselves,。
and it boils down to the most gut-level,。
honest place within our inner being,。
what we know is that while it is true,。
we don't feel it's true for us.。
That's why Paul is praying here.。
He wants us to grasp the love of God,。
not just with our minds,。
but with our own hearts.。
He wants it to move from here down into here.。
He wants it to permeate every faculty of your being.。
He wants you to know what kind of impact。
that kind of love should have in your life.。
And so he tells us four things specifically。
that will help us to understand。
what the love of Jesus feels like,。
what it actually does to a person。
in their life.。
And he picks it up in verse 16.。
And so he says, "Hey, I bow my knees,。
"so that according to the riches of his glory,。
"he may grant you to be strengthened with power。
"through his Spirit in your inner being."。
You see, the first thing that Paul wants us to remind us of。
is that Jesus gives strength in place of exhaustion.。
That's the first point.。
Jesus gives strength in place of exhaustion.。
Anybody tired in here?。
(congregation chattering)。
It's always inevitably true that when I ask that question,。
and yet I never cue a response,。
people raise their hands and they lift their voices.。
Because people just, they want to be identified.。
Like, man, I'm tired.。
Like, work has me beat.。
My boss is asking way too much of me.。
My friends, they are constantly asking me to go out.。
It's difficult being popular.。
I know that the weekends are coming,。
but it feels like the weekdays are never ending.。
I don't get enough sleep.。
Instead, I'm awake too often and not by my own choice.。
I would kill for a vacation.。
I get it.。
I understand that this is the case.。
And yet here's what I want you to know.。
Your tiredness is not the product。
of what's happening outside of you.。
It is the product of what's happening inside of you.。
Your tiredness is not the product。
of what's happening outside.。
It's the product of what's happening inside.。
Like, it's not that the work is just so crazy.。
It's that you are desperately identifying。
with the success your work offers,。
and that's making you crazy.。
It's not that your boyfriend or your girlfriend。
is just so needy.。
It's that you want to be needed by somebody.。
It's not that all of your friends,。
man, they just want too much of me.。
It's that you want to be approved of by these people,。
and so you drive yourself to the point of exhaustion。
in order to achieve it.。
It's not just that you're constantly trying。
to measure up to everybody that's around you.。
It's that you actually only find your value。
in how you stack up against the competition.。
It's not what's happening outside.。
It's what's happening inside that is making you tired.。
I could go on, and yet so many of us,。
we let the outer world impact our inner lives。
as opposed to letting our inner lives。
impact the outer world,。
and the results, they are exhausting.。
I remember when I was in college,。
and I've told this story before,。
but it feels too perfect to pass on。
to help make the point here,。
how to craft a world-class resume.。
I got really good at it, so good to the point。
that I actually took a job。
in helping people craft their resumes.。
I'm not in that line of work anymore,。
so save the emails.。
You can find somebody else to help you with that,。
and yet I learned all the tools of the trade.。
I learned good action verbs.。
I knew what it looked like to take。
one's achievements and accolades。
and put them on paper in a way that really impressed.。
I knew what it looked like to format。
and use the right fonting,。
so that way businesses would read it,。
and they would say, "Man, this guy or this girl。
"actually has a leg up on the rest of our candidates."。
I knew what it meant to self-promote。
at the highest level possible,。
and yet there was always one thing。
that stood out to me as really interesting。
when I would help people with their resumes.。
I would ask them, "Hey, send me over。
"whatever resume you have as of now,"。
and so what they would send me。
is not one page, though that's what it's supposed to be.。
They would send me multiple pages。
recounting all of their achievements,。
awards, causes for recognition,。
and what struck me about that。
was not that they were sending me multiple pages。
because surely one page is not enough。
to contain my awesomeness,。
but because one page was surely not enough。
to impress anybody in their estimation.。
They needed more than that.。
They knew something was wrong on the inside,。
and so I needed to fix myself on the outside.。
I don't think that I'm actually genuinely enough。
to impress anybody.。
I'm not enough to impress anybody socially,。
financially, professionally, romantically.。
Spiritually speaking, I'm not enough,。
and the case is true for so many of us.。
That's why you wrap yourself in high-powered jobs.。
That's why you filter your photos.。
It's why you choose to buy the nicest brands。
as opposed to the brands。
which exist within your current budget.。
It's why you choose to pursue big goals。
that other people want。
as opposed to the goals that you yourself want.。
Why you chase after that job。
as opposed to just a good job.。
It's because you are measuring yourself up。
in accordance with what everyone else thinks.。
You are finding your value in the love of the world。
and not the love of a king,。
and the results of it are exhaustion.。
You feel flawed on the inside,。
so you're trying to fix yourself on the outside,。
and here's the truth.。
You are flawed on the inside.。
You are dead in your trespasses and sins,。
and yet Jesus Christ,。
he has come to not fix you on the outside,。
but to fix that which you cannot fix.。
He has come to fix you on the inside.。
He has come to give of himself,。
to give to you all that you lack,。
so that way you might find all that you want in him.。
He has come to replace your exhaustion with his strength.。
It's not just even that he has come to save you。
from where you were.。
The fact that you used to be back there。
dealing with those sins and those problems。
and all of those mistakes.。
He's not just worried about the past.。
He's not just saved you from that.。
He has saved you to a glorious future.。
He is leading you into something,。
the likes of which will be better。
than you could ever dare ask or imagine.。
Don't believe me?。
Place your faith in him and take him up on the offer.。
See if it is better.。
I assure you, it will be.。
His word is true.。
His promises are perfect.。
He does not fail to keep his word.。
He will lead you forward into that。
which you could not dare dream for yourself.。
And it's because there he is waiting for you.。
Paul says it like this to the Corinthians。
when talking about the inner person.。
He says in 2 Corinthians 4, 16,。
"So we do not lose heart.。
Though our outer self is wasting away,。
our inner self is being renewed day by day by day."。
That's how much God cares about your inner person.。
That's why in here in Ephesians 3, he says,。
"He is literally strengthening every day by his spirit,。
our innermost being from the inexhaustible well。
of his glorious riches."。
That's amazing to consider.。
God cares a lot about how you are doing on the inside.。
So let me ask you, how healthy is your inner life tonight?。
How healthy is your inner life?。
What do you see when you stare at that part of yourself。
which no one else can see?。
How do you feel in your soul?。
How's your spiritual pulse doing?。
Is it strong, beating vibrantly within your chest?。
Or is it flatlining?。
Are you striding with the spirit, making great ground?。
Or are you cold, dead on the table。
because your inner life is withering。
while you try to keep up with the world's watching?。
What is it for you?。
Listen to me.。
God's desire for your life is not a life of hopelessness。
or exhaustion or stress or desperation or insecurity.。
If that describes your experience, that's not his heart for you.。
That's not his life for you.。
Instead, his desire is that your life would flourish.。
That you would be bursting and beaming with life.。
That everywhere you go would be a place of flourishing.。
Not because the circumstances are great,。
but because he is with you in the circumstances.。
Because he goes with you wherever it is you go.。
Because he is the source of your life, not the things in this world.。
You see, his love should strengthen your innermost self。
so that when, not if, but when things go bad,。
when failure inevitably comes, when trouble eventually strikes,。
when hurt however happens,。
you are still standing on the other side of it.。
That is the first thing that the love Jesus offers does to your life.。
That's how it should feel. It should feel like strength.。
But that's not all.。
The second one is in verse 17.。
He prays that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith.。
That you, being rooted and grounded in love.。
We'll stop right there.。
It's interesting. When you read this verse in the original language,。
because our English translations, they don't exactly do justice。
to what Paul is meaning here.。
When Paul says that Christ may dwell in your hearts,。
he uses the word for dwell that means more than simply being in a house,。
but actually means being at home.。
Like Jesus looks at your life,。
and he does not treat it like an Airbnb.。
Like it's not a place that he stays at for a while,。
but then he slips out whenever things are not up to his standard.。
It's not that he lives in your heart,。
but then the minute you start to misbehave, or you do something bad,。
or you're praying enough, or man, I don't know,。
that doesn't actually feel worthy for me.。
When that happens, he doesn't just dip and leave you to pick up the mess.。
He does not treat you that way.。
No, he considers your heart his home.。
He knows every nook and cranny.。
He has keys to every single room.。
And he likes it there.。
Jesus likes making his home in your heart.。
Anybody got homebodies in the room?。
Anybody bold enough to raise a hand and say,。
"Yeah, man, I'd rather be at home than go out with some people."。
Jesus is a homebody when it comes to you.。
He wants to be with you.。
He wants you to take up residence inside of you.。
He wants to dwell with you and make you into his home。
because Jesus, the love he offers, it gives acceptance, not rejection.。
The second point.。
Jesus gives acceptance and not rejection,。
which is easy to understand,。
but it is much more difficult to believe.。
Why?。
Well, let me try an exercise to see if I can't illustrate this.。
What I want you to do is I want you to hear the question I ask in a moment,。
and I want you to answer it in two ways, quietly, within yourself,。
because I want you to answer it honestly.。
I don't want you to fear your anonymity being risked。
and people are going to know.。
I want you to answer it quietly, and I want you to answer it quickly,。
like the first thing that comes to mind.。
Grab hold of that and remember it as we walk through this.。
So here's the question.。
What single word comes to mind when you think about yourself?。
I remember a counselor asking me this same question,。
not even five years ago, and the answer for me, it sprung top of mind,。
and it's still an answer that I find myself even identifying to this day.。
The answer for me was disappointment.。
I felt behind all of my peers.。
I was not happy with where I was in life.。
I was stuck in a city that I didn't want to be in any longer.。
I was mentally struggling in ways that I never had before.。
I was fighting off some nagging sin that was impacting the lives of people。
that I cared a lot about,。
and as I looked at all of the evidence of who I was here in that moment,。
I realized is I'm not worthy of love.。
I'm unattractive. I am undesirable. I am unlovable.。
Some of you can relate to that.。
Like that's why it's easier for you to list your weaknesses。
than it is for you to list your strengths.。
That's why you rewrite captions and you retake selfies。
and you redo voice memos again and again and again,。
and some of you know it's you because you don't think。
that the genuine, authentic, true article of who you are is enough.。
It's why you replay conversations that you had in your mind。
long after those conversations have concluded.。
It's why you walk into rooms like this and you look a certain way。
and you act a certain way.。
You put up a front because you're fearful of people actually knowing you for who you are.。
Why are you so fearful? Why do you do all of this?。
Because no one will actually accept you.。
No one will reject you if they know who you really, truly, wholeheartedly are.。
But not Jesus.。
That is not the heart of Jesus.。
You see, Jesus, he isn't interested in people giving him a good reason to love them.。
Jesus is interested in the people that have no good reason for him to love them。
because he has come to give them a good reason himself.。
This is the heart of who Christ is.。
Just think about the people he drew near to in life.。
Sinners and blasphemers and adulterers and addicts and traitors and outcasts,。
those on the periphery.。
He drew near not to the lovable of the world, but to the unlovable of the world.。
Not to those who were, "Man, it's beneficial to be around you guys."。
That's not who Jesus spent time with.。
He spent time around those that it was costly to spend time with.。
So costly, in fact, that it cost him his own life.。
Like he so badly wants to be near those that are unwanted。
because it's to them that he can give worth.。
He wants to be near those that are hopeless because it's to them that he can give hope.。
It's to those that feel lonely that he wants to be close to。
because he can give them a friend.。
It's to those that feel so unworthy of the world's affection。
that he has come to give you something so much bigger than their affection.。
He has come to give you God's.。
That's what it says in Romans 5.8.。
Famous verse, and one that you should put to memory if you do not know it.。
"But God, he shows his love for us, and that while we were still sinners,。
Christ died for us."。
Not while you were perfect, not while you were doing okay,。
not while you were up on the mend.。
While you were still a sinner, he died for you.。
And here's the thing.。
This isn't a flighty or a feeble feeling kind of love.。
Paul goes on to say that it's rooted and grounded.。
What does that mean?。
Well, it's agricultural and it's industrial language.。
Think about roots. What do roots do?。
Roots, they reach out in search of nourishment so that way they can grow.。
Foundations, they need to be strong so that way you can build on top of them.。
So last year, Brooke and I, we were on house hunt in this crazy market。
in Dallas, Texas, and as we were going into houses,。
we would perpetually look for cracks in the ceilings and on the walls。
and on the exterior.。
I remember we went into one house and it was beautiful.。
Like it had all of the right trappings, great fixtures and great furnishings,。
and it was well-painted, renovated recently in a great location in town.。
It looked perfect, and yet we could not look past the cracks。
that were snaking down the wall,。
serving as evidence to us that it did not have a good foundation.。
And because it did not have a good foundation,。
it would be costly to live there.。
Some of you, you have built your life on a bad foundation,。
and it has cost you dearly.。
It has cost you dearly.。
Like you're giving more than you should.。
You're giving your body over to some guy because you want his approval.。
His approval isn't worth it.。
It's not worthy of offering yourself over.。
Some of you, you want so badly for the approval of your friends。
that you're willing to compromise your personal integrity.。
Their approval is not worth that.。
Some of you, you are so enslaved to success。
because you have to get that job, and yet that job isn't worth the cost.。
Some of you, you want so badly to measure up,。
not in other people's eyes, in your own eyes.。
And so you are living under an immense amount of pressure,。
and yet you don't have to do that.。
It's not worth it.。
Some of you, it's not a bad foundation.。
Instead, you are drawing on nothing.。
You have set your roots into places where it's not pulling on living water,。
it's pulling on no water.。
It's pulling on something that is making you not healthy, but unhealthy.。
You're indulging toxic relationships just so you can feel valued.。
You have an addiction to pornography just because it helps you to feel happy.。
You care so much about the opinions of others。
because you want desperately to fit in.。
You suffer from imposter syndrome because you think you'll never measure up.。
And what it has done is it has left you weak and guilty and insecure。
and paranoid and jealous.。
I know it because I've lived it. I've been there.。
I am also one of you in this regard.。
Here's the thing.。
You either draw from or you build on something。
that gives you scarcity or stability in life.。
The world will give you scarcity.。
Jesus will give you stability.。
His love, it is one that you can root into and build upon。
and find life within because the love of Jesus doesn't tolerate you.。
It doesn't endure you.。
It isn't indifferent towards you.。
It's wild about you.。
God is wild about you.。
So wild, in fact, that the Apostle Paul, he keeps going.。
He wants you to know, hey, the love of Jesus,。
what it does is it makes you strong.。
It gives you acceptance.。
But not just that. It says in verse 18,。
"I pray that you may have strength to comprehend with all the saints。
what is the breadth and the length and the height and the depth。
until you know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge."。
How wild is Jesus about you?。
So wild that Paul prays we would have strength。
to comprehend the breadth and the length and the height and the depth of it.。
Do you hear that?。
He's saying, "Hey, I hope you're ready for this."。
You might break a mental sweat thinking about it.。
I just need to make sure, are you sure you're ready。
to have this conversation, to consider the things that I'm going to tell you?。
It's big, man. Are you sure?。
It's way bigger than just a conversation about predestination.。
This is way bigger than the dispute between lordship, salvation,。
and the alternative positions.。
This isn't just covenant theology we're talking about.。
No, the age of the earth, that has nothing on this.。
Those are small things in comparison to this.。
This thing is big. Are you ready for it? Are you sure?。
You need to make sure.。
We're talking about the love of Christ.。
He tells you, you need strength to comprehend that.。
And yet here's the thing, this should be convicting to us.。
Because we are not like Paul.。
We so casually talk about the love of Christ.。
Yeah, yeah, yeah, man, I know that.。
He talks so carefully about it.。
He is strapping on his spiritual weight lifting belt。
while we're willing to just slip under the bar。
and get crushed by the fact that we do not know。
the love Paul is describing here.。
You see, Paul knows what we don't.。
He knows that Jesus gives a love too big for bored belief.。
He gives a love too big for bored belief, our third point.。
That's why he describes that it has breadth.。
Like, what does he mean?。
Like, that's a reference to Ephesians 2, 11 through 18,。
that the breadth of it includes all people,。
every background, every color, every language,。
every ethnicity, every single person。
is included in this kind of love.。
That his love is length, that he chose us。
from before the foundation of the world.。
That's Ephesians 1, 4, and 5.。
That it is height, that it has seated us with Christ。
in the heavenly places.。
That's Ephesians 2, verse 6.。
That is depth, that Jesus came from the heights of heaven,。
not just to the depth of this earth,。
but to the depth of your depravity,。
to the very worst of all of us to save us.。
That's Ephesians 2, 1 through 3.。
He is praying that we would understand two things,。
the immensity and the intensity of God's love for us.。
The immensity, that he loves the entirety of who you are。
and the length of your days.。
Like, he is here for the beginning of your life。
to the very end of it.。
The immensity of his love spans over the entirety。
of who you are, but the intensity of it。
is focused at every single individual aspect。
of who you are.。
That's the kind of love that Jesus has.。
And that's crazy.。
That is a wild thing to consider.。
Have you thought about it that way?。
But here's the thing.。
It goes even further.。
Like, he keeps going.。
He goes, "I pray you would know the love of Christ。
that surpasses knowledge."。
I remember when I was in college,。
every single day I would sit at my kitchen table。
and I would stare up, eating my Cheerios,。
at this giant painted canvas of this verse,。
which my roommate had hung up in our house。
without anybody's permission.。
Anybody got roommates like that?。
And so here I am, reading this verse,。
considering to myself, "What does this even mean?"。
Like, this is what's so frustrating about Christianity.。
Like, I don't understand.。
How can you know something that surpasses knowledge?。
And yet, as I've walked with Jesus,。
I think I know the answer.。
God wants you to have more than a conceptual understanding。
of his love.。
He wants you to have an experiential understanding。
of his love.。
More than a conceptual understanding,。
an experiential understanding,。
which may freak some of us out.。
But here's the thing.。
He is not calling you to simply an intellectual orientation。
where your mind is engaged,。
nor is he calling you to simply an emotional orientation。
where your heart is engaged.。
He is calling you to an experiential orientation。
where both head and heart are intertwined intimately。
to one another, where you actually encounter God.。
You walk in rooms like this, and it's not just,。
"Man, okay, we sang some songs, I listened to that guy,。
kind of rambled for a little bit,。
I saw my friends, and then I walked out."。
That's not your experience here, because if you're showing up。
and you're engaging with a living God,。
it should change things for you.。
It should move something in you.。
It should stir up your soul.。
And yet what we know is that often our experience。
of Jesus' love does not match the experience。
people in the Bible have of Jesus' love.。
Just consider the gospels.。
How do people experience Jesus' love?。
Well, he forgave sinners, he didn't condemn them.。
He moved towards the outcasts, not away from them.。
He protected the poor, he didn't take advantage of them.。
He empowered regular people, not celebrity Christians。
and spiritual superstars.。
He defended the weak.。
He comforted the hurting.。
He taught the curious.。
He challenged the arrogant, and he loved his enemies.。
This was people's experience of Christ's love。
in the gospels, and we know it.。
And yet our experience of Jesus' love,。
it feels so very different, because when we mess up,。
it's not a voice of mercy that meets us,。
it's a voice of shame.。
When we act in fear, it's not a voice of compassion。
that meets us in that moment, it is a voice of frustration.。
When we hide our sin, it's not a voice of pursuit.。
Instead, it is a voice of judgment.。
When we sin against Jesus, it's not the voice of grace。
that meets us, it's the voice of condemnation.。
But here's the thing, porch, I need you to see it.。
If what we feel from Jesus does not match。
what we know from Jesus in the Bible,。
what it means is we do not know the love of Jesus。
as well as we think.。
We do not know it as well as we think,。
because we are not experiencing it。
as they experienced it.。
Does that make sense?。
That's so important for you to get.。
That's why he has given you his spirit.。
Romans 5:5 says, "And hope does not put us to shame,。
"because God, he has poured his love into our hearts。
"through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us."。
How much does Jesus love you?。
So much so that he has given you the Holy Spirit。
to remind you, hey, I love you.。
Today, yeah, today.。
Tomorrow, yes, tomorrow.。
Next week, yeah, next week.。
This life, yeah, I'm not going anywhere.。
Forever, that's exactly where I'm taking you,。
because I love you.。
God wants to assure you of his love so much。
that he has poured his Holy Spirit into your life。
to declare to you how much he loves you.。
He wants to save you from a life of knowing his love distantly。
but never feeling his love personally.。
If he didn't, why would he enter into a relationship with you?。
Have you ever thought about that?。
Why would Jesus want relationship with you。
if all he wanted was for you to know about him?。
You can know about someone by just reading their story,。
but you cannot feel their love for you。
until you enter into their story.。
So many of us, we've read the story,。
but we have not read ourselves into it.。
The fact that he not only came to save the world,。
he came to save you.。
Last point, and we're going to have to go fast.。
Verse 19, he says, "That you may be filled。
with all the fullness of God."。
Here's the thing, we're all full of something, okay?。
Some of you, you're full of stress.。
Others of you, you're full of disappointment.。
Others, you're full of anxiety.。
Others, it's frustration.。
Some, it's regret.。
Contrary to what most people say,。
the world does not leave you empty.。
In fact, it is filling you up with something。
and the wrong thing.。
When I was in high school,。
I took my dad's truck to go and get some gas.。
By nature of my own habit, I hopped out of the truck,。
swiped my card, I grabbed the pump,。
and I proceeded to put gasoline into his diesel excursion.。
I was putting the wrong thing in his truck.。
I was filling it with that which would not help it,。
but hurt it.。
Many of you are filling yourself with things。
that will not help you, but will hurt you.。
Some of you, you have a habit。
of pumping the wrong thing into your life.。
And yet, here's the thing, my dad, he showed up,。
and he helped me siphon the gas from his tank.。
Jesus has shown up,。
and he has come to siphon the sin out of your soul.。
He wants to help you.。
He wants to move you back into right relationship,。
because Jesus gives fulfillment where the world cannot.。
He gives fulfillment where the world cannot.。
And here's the thing, we are all looking for fulfillment.。
What you need to know is fulfillment came looking for you.。
Fulfillment is not something you attain.。
It is something you appreciate,。
because you already have it if you have him.。
I love the way Charles Spurgeon described this lesson。
as he was teaching a friend.。
He took that friend to the edge of the ocean,。
and he took an empty bottle, unscrewed its lid,。
and plunged it into the depth of the ocean.。
And as he pulled it forward, and he showed it to his friend,。
he said, "This bottle, or the fullness of the ocean。
"is in this bottle."。
And he proceeded to take the bottle, put on its cap,。
and then throw the bottle into the ocean.。
And he said, "All the fullness of the bottle。
"is now in the ocean."。
That's the nature of relationship with Jesus.。
All of his fullness is in you,。
and all of your fullness is in him.。
He wants to be intimately, intricately intertwined with you.。
That's how deep his love is,。
and how big his heart wants for you.。
How do you know the love of God?。
You look to him who came to give you life,。
and life to the full.。
Some of that sounds too good to be true.。
It sounds too impossible to believe.。
It's too unreasonable to consider.。
And yet you need to know the way Paul ends。
is the right answer for you,。
not to him who is able to do far more abundantly。
than all we ask or think.。
Truth of the matter is, this is too good to be true.。
It is too unbelievable to consider.。
It is too impossible to be true.。
And yet God has made a business of doing the unbelievable.。
He delights in the impossible.。
He walks in the ways that are unreasonable to the world.。
He has come to give you strength in place of exhaustion。
through the love of his son,。
who came to give you life in place of death.。
He has come to give you acceptance and not rejection.。
Though all of us were dead in our sin,。
separated from God,。
he sent his son to bring us back into relationship with himself.。
He has given a love that is bigger than bored belief,。
a love that doesn't just lead you to want to believe in him,。
but wants you to be with him forever.。
He has come to give you fullness。
where the world cannot give you fullness.。
For Christ, he came to give you what the world and you yourself could not give you.。
He came to give you life, even at the cost of his own self.。
Do you want to know?。
Do you want to feel the love you know?。
You were here and you've heard of this love.。
If you want to feel the love you know,。
then you have to know the love he felt.。
The love he felt for you,。
the lengths he'd go to get to you,。
the life he would offer up in your place,。
the death he would die so you would not have to,。
the resurrection he would take up,。
declaring that as he rises, you can rise with him.。
If only you place your faith in him.。
Do you want a love like this?。
It's not out there.。
It's right here.。
Place your faith in him.。
Let me pray.。
Jesus, thanks for tonight.。
Thank you for your love.。
We want to sing to you.。
We want to delight in what you've worked on us here this evening.。
And God, I feel, just transparently,。
the need to get off of this stage.。
The timer's going quick.。
And yet, Lord, I don't want to rush past what you may be doing.。
I think, God, you might be stirring.。
No, God, I believe you are stirring.。
There are some here that hear this call,。
that agree with the description.。
That has been my life.。
My life has been one where I have known the love of God,。
and yet I have not felt the love of God.。
And yet here tonight, I'm hearing you.。
Like that love, it offers strength.。
That love, it offers acceptance.。
That love, it offers weight.。
And that love, it offers fulfillment.。
I want that.。
I want that kind of love.。
And you need look no longer.。
If you want that kind of love, that love has come looking for you.。
You need only place your faith in Christ.。
Others of you, you've already done so,。
and yet you find that your spirituality is more characterized by mediocrity。
than significance.。
You can change that all tonight by simply confessing that to him,。
asking him for more,。
and believing the fact that he has come to give you more than you already have.。
But, Jesus, we want you to work in us now.。
Would you take over the space?。
Would you move in us?。
We pray it's in your name.。
Amen.。
(upbeat music)。
