[Music]。
>> Ports, how we doing? Let's go.。
Put your hands together. It's Tuesday night.。
It's so good to be back with you.。
Thanks so much for trusting us with your Tuesday, genuinely.。
I don't know where you're coming from, but we love that you would be here with us.。
And we want to make the most of this time together.。
I think God has something for us.。
I believe that every week, but as we've stepped into this week,。
as I started to prep what we're talking about tonight,。
I think God very specifically wants to engage you.。
And I think he wants to engage not only the people in this room,。
but I think he wants to engage some friends that are joining with us around the nation.。
Porch Live Tulsa, Porch Live Midland, special shout out to you guys,。
as well as to all of our Porch Live locations.。
Can we give it up for them, please? Yes.。
Hey, love that y'all tracked with us. Thanks so much for being here.。
Well, it wasn't long after college and my first job that I found myself itching for the next thing.。
Anybody been in that place where you're on the hills of your first job。
and you're thinking about what's next?。
Like, I don't know about you, but for me, some of you are shaking your heads like,。
"Yeah, that's me right now. I want that right now."。
For me at that time, I was itching.。
Like I was so eager to get out there and prove to myself just how much I had to offer.。
Like I wanted to show people like, "Hey, I actually do have what it takes to make a difference in the world."。
I wanted to do something fulfilling, something that actually made an impact.。
And so what I did is I found myself moving towards an evaluation of what was next.。
And as I did, like all of these thoughts of what God might do started to fill my mind.。
And it started to sound like the voice of those posters in your grade school classrooms,。
where it's like, "Hey, the world is your oyster," or "You can do whatever you want.。
You can be whoever you want to be when you grow up."。
And so I started to believe like, "Yeah, man, like that is true.。
Like I can be whatever I want."。
And so I started to consider, "God, what would you have me do next?"。
Like I didn't just want to carve out a nice little life for myself.。
Like I had these great aspirations of like global domination, you know.。
Like I wanted to do something epic.。
I wanted to make the most of the years that I had.。
And so I started thinking, "Man, it doesn't matter what ladder I climb.。
I just need to find a ladder and climb up that ladder as quickly as possible."。
And yet here was the issue. I had so many ladders at my disposal.。
Like God had in his kindness, he had given me a variety of different things for me to look at.。
Because at this point in my life, it was all at once.。
It felt like, "Man, there's so many different opportunities."。
I found myself staring down the barrel of helping my church start a college residency.。
I found myself looking at the opportunity to step into a tech startup, a new job in the marketplace.。
I was dating a girl that was way outside of my league.。
I was a part of a sermon prep team with a pastor that had decided to mentor me.。
I was a part of a ministry that was making a difference in our city.。
And they were all asking me to take another step with them.。
It's everything I wanted.。
And yet it was so overwhelming.。
Like I found myself taken aback by the fact that everything I wanted, like all of this opportunity,。
it was here at my feet. Like it was finally available to me.。
Like I thought the sky was the limit.。
And yet in the midst of all of this, it felt like the sky was falling down all around me.。
Like I had these hopes of like global domination.。
And now it felt like the world was coming after me.。
Anybody resonate with this?。
Like this is a feeling that we find ourselves whenever we see, "Man, there's a lot I want to do."。
And yet I don't know what to say yes and what to say no to.。
So I'll just sensibly say yes to all of it.。
And it starts to sweat you out, you know.。
It starts to get hot because it starts to feel really heavy.。
I don't know if that sounds like your experience.。
And yet what I do know is that according to most research, this is characteristic of our generation.。
That we find ourselves struggling with something we like to call workaholism.。
That got a reaction.。
In 2016, a survey was conducted by Project Time Off.。
Widely regarded as one of the leading analyses in the last decade on the topic of workaholism.。
They surveyed 5,000 young professionals.。
And they found that out of those 5,000 young professionals, people just like you, 43% of them.。
So that would be just less than half of this room.。
Identified as work martyrs.。
That they were sacrificing their well-being on the altar of whatever job they were a part of.。
They identified with these statements.。
No one else in my company can do my job while I'm away.。
I want to show complete dedication to my company and my work.。
I don't want others to think I'm replaceable.。
I feel guilty for using my paid time off.。
43% of people just like you said these statements.。
They agree that this was their reality.。
And if you want a study that's more recent than 2016, in 2020, Forbes found that 66% of young adults suffer from workaholism.。
66%.。
Like the number just increased in the last four years from between one study to the next.。
Forbes identified this as work addiction.。
Which is interesting.。
The fact that they would identify it as that.。
Because that's a pretty strange phenomenon.。
Right?。
That we would say it's work addiction.。
Because considering all other addictions in the world, we don't brag about them.。
Like nobody's walking around and bragging about their drinking problem.。
Nobody's walking around and bragging about what they watched in the secrecy of their home on their computer.。
And yet we do like to walk around and brag about the fact that, yeah, man, I did just pull a 50, 60 hour week last week.。
There's something glamorous.。
There's something sexy about work addiction.。
And yet we know that the effect is pretty consequential.。
But this is who we are.。
In that same study, 70% of people were available and actively working on the weekends.。
70%!。
On the weekends!。
I don't know what you do on your weekends, but I don't like to work.。
I like to take off.。
You know?。
I like to have good boundaries.。
63% claimed to work while sick.。
Which is ironic.。
Because that's what you have sick leave for.。
It's to leave the work behind because you're sick.。
And 32% admitted to working even while on the toilet.。
I don't know what you call that.。
I call that a problem.。
Like put in short, y'all, we're workaholics.。
Like the line between our personal lives and our professional lives has grown dangerously thin.。
To the point that the world is looking at our generation and saying, you're the burnout generation.。
And phrases such as hustle culture, quarter life crisis.。
Yeah, some of you are resonating with these.。
Hustle culture, quarter life crisis, vacation shaming and career fatigue.。
They're more common than ever before.。
Now, some of you, you may hear this.。
And you may hear my story and you may be like, man, Kylan, I hear you.。
I'm not addicted to my job.。
Like I'm not sacrificing myself on the altar of my performance at work.。
I don't care actually what my boss really thinks of me.。
You know?。
I'm freed of that kind of pressure.。
And I would say, even though that is probably true for some of us in the room, the issue is not that we're addicted to our work.。
The issue is that we're addicted to busyness.。
We're addicted to busyness.。
Like we love to fill up our calendars and build out our checklists and line up for ourselves a list of achievements to seek after over the course of a day.。
That's the biggest characteristic of our generation.。
You see, if you look, we're more statistically hurried, anxious, stressed today than we've ever been in human history.。
And it's for a variety of reasons.。
It's not just because I want to succeed at my job.。
It's not simply for that.。
It's because you want to make an impact in the world.。
It's because you want to belong to that group of people.。
It's because you want to have a positive reputation.。
You want to leave a legacy behind you.。
There's a variety of reasons why we hurry ourselves.。
And yet the reality is we do in fact hurry ourselves.。
And in the process of doing that, busying our lives, we find ourselves stressed, anxious, regretful, confused, and empty.。
Why do I bring all of that up to you?。
Because in the sea of everything you feel you need to do, Jesus wants to look at us tonight and say, "Hey, there's one thing you need to do.。
One thing you need to do that is most important of all."。
"Well, what is it?" He tells us in Luke chapter 10.。
So if you have a Bible, grab it. Luke chapter 10.。
This is what we see.。
As we turn to Luke 10, we're going to see that Jesus is interacting with some really good friends of his.。
And for many of us in here, if you grew up in the church, you may be familiar with this story.。
If not, you'll be able to catch up pretty quickly because the story reads fast.。
And yet it is so steeped in depth and detail.。
And so here's what I want to do with you.。
I just want to walk through the story little by little.。
Does that sound okay?。
We'll just take it piece by piece.。
As we go along, I think we'll see the one thing that we need to prioritize above anything and everything else in life.。
This is Luke 10.。
We're going to pick it up in verse 38.。
"Now as they went on their way, Jesus entered a village, and a woman named Martha welcomed him into her house.。
And she had a sister called Mary, who sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching.。
But Martha was distracted with much serving.。
And she went up to him and said, 'Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone?。
Tell her then to help me.'。
But the Lord answered her, 'Martha, Martha, you're anxious and troubled about many things, but one thing is necessary.。
There's one thing you need to do most of all.。
Mary has chosen the good portion, which will not be taken from her.'"。
We can't see it from this passage alone, but by the time we catch up to Jesus in this story,。
what you need to know is he's built somewhat of a reputation for himself.。
Like he's gone about the Galilean countryside, and he has performed miracles,。
and he has taught to massive crowds far larger than this.。
And as he's done so, he has demonstrated a kind of authority that has left people in utter amazement.。
And so he shows up, and he's kind of the guy in this moment.。
Like he has a reputation, he's renowned, and Martha knows all of this is the case.。
She understands quite well his status.。
And so she does what he would do.。
Like she rolls out the red carpet and invites him into her home.。
Like what we see is that she welcomes him.。
The word for welcomed here is the technical term for hospitality in the Greek.。
It literally means, if you go and you read it, if you read it in the original language,。
it means to be received under.。
So Brooke, my wife, she's really amazing at hospitality.。
Like she thrives at what Martha is doing here in inviting Jesus into her home。
in the sense that she loves to kick open our doors and not just invite people over to our house,。
but welcome them into our home.。
Are you tracking what the difference is there?。
I'll explain it for you.。
It ends up being a laundry list of to-dos for Kylan,。
because there's a lot we have to do to get ready if people are coming over to our house.。
Like it's not enough to just say, "Hey, we'll cook you dinner. Come on by.。
We'll have some good conversation."。
That's not enough.。
In fact, what I have to do is I have to mow the yard, blow the patio,。
clean the bathrooms, vacuum the house, and clean the gutters.。
No one's looking in the gutters!。
They're not getting up there.。
Why? Why the to-do list?。
Because she wants to receive people under her care.。
She's hospitable.。
She wants to outdo them with honor.。
That's what Martha is doing right here.。
Martha is outdoing Jesus in honor.。
She's welcoming him into her home,。
which tells us something really important about Martha.。
She's made it.。
Like Martha is thriving because she owns her own house.。
Like not only is she a woman in the ancient Near East,。
but she owns a home in the ancient Near East.。
So she's independent.。
Like she's thriving.。
Like she's bought her first house.。
She's having people over.。
She's pulling out the charcuterie board,。
and she's making sure that everybody's needs are taken care of.。
"Hey, what do you want to drink? Do you need a refill?。
Don't worry. I got it for you."。
Like she is on top of it.。
She's the epitome of what we would want to be true of ourself.。
Like she is self-sufficient.。
She's confident in her abilities.。
She's put together, and she's eager to help people.。
And it says in verse 40 that she was serving,。
which seems really right.。
Like she's keeping busy hosting Jesus,。
serving him as best she can.。
She is doing everything for him.。
But here's the issue.。
She's not doing anything with him.。
She's doing everything for Jesus,。
but she's not doing anything with him.。
Why? Why is that the case?。
Because she's distracted.。
That's what it says in verse 40.。
She's distracted.。
And the greater the distraction, the greater the danger.。
The greater the distraction, the greater the danger.。
What do I mean by danger?。
Well, if you just look at the descriptors that come around Martha,。
you see she's in danger.。
Because we see in verse 40 that she's lonely.。
Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone?。
But she's not only lonely, it escalates.。
In verse 41, anxiety pops up.。
Martha, Martha, you're anxious.。
But it doesn't just stay there.。
It goes even further.。
It says in verse 41 that she's troubled about many things.。
The Greek for that word troubled,。
it doesn't just mean like, ah, she's slightly bothered.。
It means she's like panicked.。
She's disturbed.。
Now, I want to be really clear what this is not saying.。
This scripture is not saying that it's bad to be busy.。
It's not saying that it's wrong to work.。
Like this is not an endorsement for you to come in from a long day。
and sit down on the couch and let the television just bathe over you.。
You know, like that's not what's being described here.。
This is not articulating a path of least resistance mentality.。
Path of least resistance is never the path of greatest faith.。
So what then is this saying?。
Like the Bible, it's littered with so much scripture that endorses the idea of work.。
Like if you go and you read through the Proverbs,。
what you see in the wisdom literature is that slothfulness is decried over a dozen times.。
It's good to work.。
God designed it.。
But it's not good to be distracted with work.。
It's not good to be obsessed with work.。
Like that's what we need to see because according to scientific research,。
work addiction leads to a rise in divorce, anxiety, insomnia, obesity, and depression.。
Winston Churchill, he was notorious for his work ethic.。
Like notorious for it.。
The guy, he averaged 16-hour work days, seven days a week.。
And he didn't just work really hard.。
He wrote 43 books.。
The idea of writing a book is intimidating to me on its own.。
One, he wrote 43 of them in 72 volumes.。
Yeah, exactly.。
The guy was a workaholic.。
Like he applied himself diligently.。
And yet, if you go and you read the record of his life,。
biographers, they cannot recount his story without detailing in depth the severity of his depression.。
That black dog, as he called it, that haunted him all the days of his life.。
You see, there's a danger in distracting ourselves with work.。
And the really sinister thing is this.。
You can have the best of intentions and you can still be wrong.。
You can have the best of intentions and yet you can still be wrong.。
Like that's what happens to Martha right here.。
Everything she's doing, it appears really good, but it's actually really wrong.。
How so?。
Because she's missing the one thing that's necessary.。
She's missing Jesus.。
And friends, just here at the top of the evening, like this is the case for some of you tonight.。
Like you're not busy with bad.。
Like you're not a heathen.。
You're not out there burning something down.。
Like the cops aren't looking for you right now.。
If they are, just raise a hand and we'll escort you out and help you to find them quite quickly.。
No, like you're not busy doing bad.。
You're busy doing good.。
Like you do want to make a difference in the world.。
Like you want to do something fulfilling that makes an impact in the lives of other people.。
Like you're committed to volunteering on the weekends and you're mentoring that group of guys or girls.。
Or you're serving in your church or you're making sure that you're leading that Bible study faithfully.。
You're showing up to community group and you're not just showing up, you're actually confessing sin.。
You're engaged. You're doing good.。
Like you're volunteering in some organization that you care about.。
You're busy doing good.。
And yet, what we know is that despite all the good you do for God,。
all of it is in vain if you've done none of it with Him.。
You can do all the good in the world and yet if you do none of that good with God,。
all of it's vanity, all of it's useless, all of it's pointless.。
And friend, like what you need to know is that the busier you become, the blurrier God gets.。
Like the more distracted you get with all manner of other things to worry about,。
the harder it is to actually see Him.。
That's why distraction is dangerous.。
It can not only affect your physical well-being, it affects your spiritual well-being.。
So if that's you, listen to me.。
That does not have to be the case.。
And as we walk through the rest of this story, we're going to see how we can get dislodged from that being our reality.。
But Isaiah 26, 3, it helps us where we should start.。
It says, "You keep Him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you because He trusts in you."。
You keep Him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you because He trusts in you.。
Like what do you turn to to keep you in perfect peace?。
What do you go to?。
Is it doing?。
Is it busyness?。
Is it something else?。
Is it a creature comfort?。
A hidden habitual pattern?。
What do you do to bring peace to yourself?。
What this scripture is saying, what Isaiah wants us to know is, man,。
God keeps Him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on Him.。
The way to find perfect peace is to focus your mind's eye on God.。
The way to find peace is to trust in Him.。
Why should I trust in Him?。
Because He's God.。
And He controls everything.。
He is sovereign over all.。
Nothing in this world comes to pass without His allowance.。
Like He is greater.。
He is grander.。
He is in control of everything.。
And so whatever it is that's disrupting your peace, I bet He can handle it.。
God is trustworthy.。
So we need to fix our mind on Him.。
Like it is actually possible to work really hard and have peace in life.。
But only after you understand that your posture towards God reflects your。
priority for God.。
Your posture toward God reflects your priority for God.。
Like that's what we find as we look back into this story.。
Like as you look at the setting, what you realize is Martha's house is。
really full.。
It's packed in there.。
Which may surprise you.。
When I read this at first, it didn't feel like it was a full house.。
It felt like it was Jesus and Mary and Martha.。
And yet contextually if you read it, He's shown up with His whole group of disciples.。
They've all rolled in.。
And so His entire posse, they come into her house.。
And the house is packed.。
And yet that escapes us because Luke, he wants us to know.。
There are three people you should focus on.。
And the rest should fade away.。
You should focus on Jesus, Mary, and Martha.。
And the reason you should is because Mary and Martha, they serve as。
contrasting points.。
Like you should look at them in comparison to one another.。
Their postures are virtually opposite.。
Like look at it.。
They're described by two verbs each.。
Martha's posture, she's serving.。
She's speaking.。
Mary's posture, she's sitting.。
She's listening.。
That's opposite.。
Like they could not be more different.。
So let me just put it to you like this.。
Let me explain to you why posture matters when it comes to engaging with。
God and receiving the benefits of meeting with Him.。
Anybody in here like a quality time kind of person?。
Okay.。
Quality time people.。
You tell me which one is more engaging.。
Would you rather have -- is the quality of your time better off with。
someone that is distracted and busy and focusing on all manner of other。
things and multitasking really well?。
Or is it better instead with somebody that's sitting and listening and。
engaging with you?。
What would you say?。
Absolutely.。
Sitting and listening and engaging with me.。
Like multitasking is not the quickest way to actually maximize quality time。
with somebody.。
We should be like Mary.。
Her posture is one that tells us.。
She wants for me.。
She is eager to know me.。
And as a result, our quality of experience together.。
It has so much more potential.。
But Martha, Martha is busy with so many different things.。
Like she's serving.。
Mary is sitting.。
Martha is speaking.。
Mary is listening.。
Martha is preoccupied with many things.。
Mary is prioritized one thing.。
Mary is not distracted like Martha.。
She is devoted to Jesus.。
Charles Spurgeon, he describes this scene like this.。
Talking about Mary.。
She is down there in the place of humility.。
But she is where she can catch each word as it falls.。
And she is there with one purpose.。
She wishes to hear all that Christ has to say.。
And she wishes to hear it close at hand.。
She wants to hear the very tones with which he speaks and the accents with。
which he delivers each precept.。
She loves to look up and see those eyes which have such meaning in them.。
And that blessed countenance which speaks as much as the lips themselves.。
You see, Martha is drowning in the stress of life.。
And Mary is drinking in the words of life.。
And it's because of her posture.。
It's because she's sitting.。
She's listening.。
Like when we see that written, that's in the active voice in perfect tense.。
Which means that she's not only doing it intentionally, she's doing it continually.。
Like she's not just here for this moment, but she's here for every moment she can sit and she can listen.。
And she's not just doing it passively, she's doing it actively.。
She wants to hear every word that Jesus has to say.。
She's doing something really scandalous.。
Which escapes us because we don't read this in the original language.。
And we're not familiar with this context.。
And yet she is doing something that would be characteristically true.。
And only true of disciples.。
She's a Talmud.。
She's sitting at the feet of her teacher, her rabbi.。
And she's committed all of her faculties to observing and listening to him.。
That way she might become like him.。
Why is this so scandalous?。
Because that spot was reserved for men and men only.。
Like she's doing something so inappropriate.。
So what would compel her to do that?。
Because she knows when Jesus is in the room, I've got to get close to him.。
When the word is in the room, I need to hear every word he has to say.。
And what's fascinating is she knows the inappropriateness of it.。
And yet she does not care what people think.。
Like she's willing to embrace the indignity.。
Endure the embarrassment for the simple sake of being close to him.。
In contrast to her, what's Martha doing?。
Martha's doing what is actually appropriate.。
Like she is in a position of domestic service.。
Which was right in the ancient Near East.。
Like she's up and she's working and she's hosting and she's serving.。
Doing everything in her power to take care of her guests.。
She's doing what everyone in that house except for Jesus would consider is right and good.。
She's totally appropriate in her conduct.。
And yet Jesus looks at her and he says, Martha, one thing is necessary.。
And it's what your sister is doing.。
She's chosen a good portion.。
And I'm not going to take it from her.。
What portion are we choosing?。
What portion are you choosing in your life?。
Like where do you think you'll find all the satisfaction and joy and gratification available?。
Is it through doing what the world would say is appropriate?。
Like hey, yeah, you should get up early.。
You should stay late.。
You should grind all day and as hard as possible.。
You should.。
You should give up some of your free time on the weekend so that way you can serve in these other capacities.。
You do need to actually conform yourself so that way you can belong and blend into this group of people.。
You should compromise some of your decision making, some of your morals, some of your integrity.。
That way you can find acceptance.。
Are you doing what's appropriate in the eyes of the world?。
Or are you willing to endure what's inappropriate in the world's eye for the sake of being found right before Jesus and enjoying the good portion?。
What is it for you?。
Like when you look at your life, are you distracted with doing good?。
Or are you devoted to being with him?。
Do you feel what Mary feels?。
That when he's in the room, I drop everything.。
Sure, I should be doing all this other stuff, but I will drop it because I want to sit with him.。
I want to listen to him.。
I want to know everything he has to say.。
What's it for you?。
What we see here in the final scene is that when you've devoted your life to something,。
you can actually devote yourself to the one thing that's really good.。
And what it does is it convinces us that the goal is not completion.。
The goal is connection.。
Like that's the goal of the Christian life.。
The goal of the Christian life is not completion.。
It's connection.。
And the way we know this is because if you look at the story and the detail of it,。
Mary, she's not just sitting with Jesus.。
Like she's sitting with him, which means she wants to know him.。
She wants to hear what he has to say.。
She wants to learn from him.。
But she's also sitting near to Jesus.。
She wants to be connected to him.。
She wants to be close to him.。
That's what the Greek word for sat, perikathizo, in this text means.。
Para means beside and kathizo means to sit.。
Like Mary is sitting right beside him.。
Like she can't get close enough.。
She is as nuzzled up underneath his feet so she can hear every word as possible.。
She's like my golden retriever growing up.。
Like if I went to pet him and I decided to step away,。
he would just inch his way over and find his head underneath my hand.。
Why?。
Because his whole life revolved around me.。
He loved me.。
He couldn't get close enough to me.。
He wanted as much of me as he could get.。
God, I miss that dog.。
That's how Mary is behaving.。
Mary can't get close enough.。
She wants as much of Jesus as she can get.。
She will sit as near to him as possible and forego all things that would distance her。
for the sake of being close to her king.。
You see, she is -- Jesus is the object of her affection.。
And because he is the object of her affection, her goal now becomes connection.。
You know, as I was prepping this talk, I knew, I was like, okay,。
I actually feel like I'm preaching the same talk for the third week in a row in this series.。
And yet that's kind of the point, Porch.。
There's one thing that is most essential in all the world.。
And it's to get as close to God as we can.。
It's to know him.。
And it's to be near to him.。
You see, this is a pervasive issue today.。
We have found ourselves satisfied with an intellectual acquaintance to God.。
As long as I'm intellectually acquainted, I'm good, man.。
As long as I know the details, I'm fine.。
And yet what the Bible is absolutely putting in front of us is saying, hey,。
it's not enough to just be intellectually acquainted.。
You must be intimately acquainted with God.。
You must be intimately acquainted with him.。
This is the whole story of the scripture.。
Like God from the very beginning of the Bible, he has moved his way towards us。
after we distanced ourselves from him.。
Like he has done everything in his power to move in to your neighborhood,。
into your life, because he wants you to be connected to him.。
He's not concerned with you completing all the to-dos.。
He's not concerned with you checking off all of the did-goods.。
Like he wants you instead to be connected to him, to be close to him,。
to be like Mary.。
And yet here's the thing.。
It's so wildly clear from the scripture that the goal is completion.。
But so many of us are like Martha, and we just want to know the to-dos.。
Okay, I get it, man.。
Like I'm supposed to be close to him, but what am I supposed to do to get there?。
What am I supposed to complete?。
What's my checklist?。
What are my marching orders?。
What are the instructions?。
Give me the recipe.。
Like that's what we want.。
Like we just want to know what we're supposed to do.。
And if you're wrestling with that thought tonight, you're missing the point.。
The point is not to just do good to earn the smile of God.。
That's what Martha does.。
No, the point is to recognize you're beautiful.。
You're so good.。
And as I see you, God, in the person of Jesus, it compels me to move into you,。
to move close to you, to come nearby.。
And yet some of us, we're wrestling tonight because what we resonate with is more the story of Martha。
than the story of Mary.。
Like we hear what Martha says right here.。
We hear her say, "Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone?"。
And we register with that.。
We resonate with that.。
"Lord, do you not care?"。
God, don't you care?。
Like look at all that I've done.。
Look at everything that I've done, all the good that I've amassed.。
Like God, I've read my Bible.。
I've prayed three times today.。
I've attended church faithfully for the last month.。
I show up to my community group.。
Or maybe you're not a believer, but you're in the room.。
You're like, "God, I volunteer on the weekends.。
I give my hard-earned money to charity.。
I care about humanitarian causes."。
I don't know what it is for you, and yet so many of us feel like, "I'm trying, God.。
I'm doing the most.。
I'm giving everything I have."。
And yet, God, despite the fact that I've done so much good, I still feel like you don't care.。
You don't care about me.。
Like if you did, God, like I wouldn't be living in this kind of situation.。
I wouldn't be wrestling with this kind of difficulty.。
I wouldn't be facing this kind of hardship, God.。
My parents, they would not have split up.。
I would not have lost my job, God.。
I wouldn't have found that my friends bailed on me because of a conviction I stuck to.。
God, my reputation wouldn't be up in flames because I decided to not compromise,。
but hold fast to you and to your word, God.。
Why? I'm doing good, and yet, God, everything is falling down around me.。
Like, God, I feel cold.。
My faith is faint.。
God, I feel indifferent.。
I'm apathetic.。
Don't you care about me?。
I've done good to you if that's you here tonight.。
He says to you the same thing that he says to Martha.。
He says, "Martha, Martha."。
Like that's not a response that's laced with impatience.。
He's not frustrated with her.。
He's not asking her to get over herself, get back on board.。
He's looking at her and he's saying, "Hey, I see you.。
I love you, but the difference between you and your sister is she sees me rightly."。
What do I mean by that?。
Martha's asking a question that Mary already knows the answer to.。
Do you not care?。
Mary knows he does.。
That's why she's sitting at his feet.。
Because she knows this is no normal teacher.。
This is not some ordinary rabbi.。
Like this isn't just a good miracle-making man.。
Like that's not who this guy is.。
This guy is the Messiah.。
He's the son of God.。
Like he's the Savior sent to seek the lost.。
Like he's the one that's come, the hero of heaven, to purchase us out of our sin and take us back home with him again.。
That's why she's sitting at his feet.。
That's why she's trying to stay close.。
That's why she's hanging on every word.。
She knows this man cares about me.。
He wouldn't be sitting here otherwise.。
Friend, if you're here and you feel like the Lord doesn't care, Jesus Christ, he is the embodiment, the personification,。
the epitome of God's love and care and commitment to you.。
He came knowing full well you can do no amount of good to earn the smile of God.。
To merit heaven's favor.。
To unlock those pearly gates and walk in fully accepted.。
You can't do anything.。
There's no amount of good you can heap up.。
Because he loves you, he sent his only son, the one who could do all good,。
fulfill everything we could not apart from him.。
That we might be not only known by him, but near to him.。
Not just today, not just tomorrow, not just the day after, but for all eternity.。
This is the gospel.。
This is the one thing.。
To know him and to be near to him.。
Are you all tracking with me?。
Do you get that?。
That's good news.。
That's worthy of us putting our hands together.。
And he looks at us and he says, hey, in your frustration, in your striving, in your straining, stop.。
No more.。
Sit down.。
Be still.。
Don't hurry any longer.。
Stay a while.。
Trust me.。
I am making all things new.。
And that includes you.。
I will save you from your sin.。
And I will take you to where it is I'm going.。
If you would only believe in me.。
The reason we know it is because we know like Jesus, he was never endangered by distraction.。
Like the greater the distraction, the greater the danger.。
Jesus was never once distracted.。
He was fully devoted to you and me.。
Because he walked through this world.。
He endured every kind and all manner of unfitting oppression.。
God of heaven becomes son of man.。
Heaven's glory is left.。
Human flesh put on.。
In the indignity of that, he endured.。
Because he was devoted to you and me.。
But like he didn't just -- he didn't just remain devoted.。
He understood the importance of posture.。
In the sense that he was submitted to God all his life long.。
He kept himself under heaven's gaze and within God's will.。
Not that we can depart from it, but that he would move forward through it willingly.。
And not only did he endure a posture of submission to God in life.。
He embraced a posture of submission to God in death.。
He hung himself on a Roman execution rack.。
Not guilty of anything.。
Having done no wrong whatsoever.。
And yet he put himself there.。
Because it's where you and I deserve to be instead.。
And in his death he absorbed all the consequence of our sin.。
Like you know that was your future, right?。
Apart from Jesus Christ.。
Your future is one of eternal separation and condemnation.。
Your future, my future, was everlasting and unfettered distance from God.。
And yet he gave it all to bring us home.。
To put us close.。
Because he grasped the necessity of nearness.。
He would do anything to be close by.。
He would do whatever it took to draw us in.。
My fear with this kind of talk is that some of us would hear it and we would think to ourselves,。
I know that already.。
I'm registering, I'm tracking.。
Thanks for telling me something I've already heard before.。
And yet if that is you, this should not fall deaf upon us.。
It should fall fresh.。
It should feel new.。
And it should feel just as good as the first time.。
If you were a believer in Jesus Christ, like this is what we have staked our eternity on.。
This is what it's all about.。
Your life is not about your job.。
It's not about your achievements.。
It's not about the differences you'll make in the watching world.。
It's not about those things.。
It's not about your reputation.。
It's not about your acceptance amongst your coworkers.。
It is about him.。
All things will rust, decay, and fade away.。
But he stands forever.。
And the people he's come to save, they can live forever with him too.。
What good are you trying to do if you know our king?。
The only right good is to know him, be near him, and bring others alongside.。
If you're here and you don't know Jesus, and you're hearing this talk,。
and it's like, man, I feel okay.。
I'm stressed out sometimes.。
I'm anxious at the office.。
But who isn't?。
You know?。
This is the life of a young adult.。
Like you unpacked all those stats for us at the beginning and it told all of us, man, like, yeah, this is hard.。
But I'm not unnerved by it.。
I don't see the need for this guy.。
Then, friend, this is so honest.。
But I tell it to you because I love you.。
The reason you need this is because apart from Jesus, you are under the wrath of God.。
You cannot do good enough on your own.。
You cannot measure up to heaven's standard.。
And distance is all you'll ever know.。
You need to know, though, that God so loves you that he came to bring you back.。
That he would absorb all the consequence of his -- the consequence of our sin.。
That we might receive the free gift of eternal life.。
Man, I want it for you.。
So what do we do from here?。
We're going to sing a little bit.。
And what we're going to have down front is we're going to have our sidewalk team.。
And they're going to be available to pray with you if you so wish.。
I pray that you would take them up on the offer.。
That you wouldn't just sit here tonight and you would contemplate the convictions you feel.。
But you would take action on them.。
You would move in response.。
Some of you, it's not conviction you need to respond to.。
Instead, it's simply abiding with Jesus.。
It's sitting where you are.。
And it's receiving his goodness.。
Stealing yourself and coming close again.。
Whatever it is, though, as we step back into worship, I pray we would respond according to what the spirit is leading in.。
If you're here, he has a plan for you.。
Let me pray for us.。
God, this is so simple a message.。
It's not hard.。
It's not profound.。
It's not complicated.。
It's not sophisticated.。
And yet, God, it is absolutely urgent.。
Every one of us, God, we are here not by heaven's chance but here because you have a purpose in us tonight, God.。
You have a reason for bringing us here this evening.。
You have a word, God, for us in this scripture from this message.。
I pray, God, that we would have eyes to see before we have feet to follow.。
For, God, it is in seeing you that we see everything else rightly as a result.。
And as we see all else, God, in the light of your glory and goodness, then it compels we move.。
Then it compels we take action.。
Then it compels we take ground.。
But, God, let us not move before we first see you.。
God, have your way.。
Move amongst us.。
Touch us, God, in such a way that it transcends any ability I bring or we as a team, God, have to offer.。
Do it, God, for your glory and for the good you came to give.。
It's in Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
