(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
- Okay, hey porch, how we doing tonight?。
Let's go.。
(audience cheering)。
Woo, man, it is so good to be with you.。
I think I say this all the time.。
It always catches me by such pleasant surprise。
that every Tuesday we walk in, we see this in our space.。
Like I do not take for granted one minute。
that you would give us a little bit of your time。
on a Tuesday night.。
I just say from the outset here, thank you.。
We're really grateful that you would choose。
to join us here at the porch.。
If this is your very first time,。
we're in a series in the book of Colossians.。
We kicked it off last week, so you're not far behind,。
but we're really eager to get back into it.。
I've been prepping this sermon, getting ready for this night。
and I think God has something very, very,。
very specific for you.。
And I mean you individually.。
As I was praying, often it's easy to stand up here。
just to give y'all my perspective.。
And look out into this room and to see a whole lot of faces,。
a whole bunch of people.。
And yet God does not see a crowd of people.。
He sees each of you one by one.。
And he has something very specifically prepared for you。
across a broad spectrum of spirituality tonight.。
I believe that that's true.。
So I'm really eager to get into this.。
But first we've got to say hey。
to some of our Porch Live locations.。
Okay, so y'all do a great job of helping me welcome。
Porch Live Dayton, Porch Live Des Moines,。
Porch Live Atlanta, Porch Live Fort Worth,。
Porch Live Midland, all the Porch Live locations.。
We are so glad that you would be here with us as well.。
Well, if you've ever wondered if it's possible to fly。
without your driver's license on you,。
I can tell you from personal experience, it is.。
I just would not recommend it.。
A few years ago, I was flying to speak at a retreat。
where I realized I didn't have my wallet on me.。
I'd made the drive to the airport,。
I had waited in the security line,。
I had finally approached the TSA desk.。
And to my horror, I realized I didn't have。
my driver's license.。
I thought this is terrible.。
Like how am I going to get on this plane?。
I've got to get there by tonight.。
Like I have to speak this evening to a group of students.。
And so if I'm not able to get on this flight,。
I am in huge trouble.。
And the fact that I don't have any sort of verification,。
it's complicating my reality.。
And so I walk up to the TSA desk。
and I do the only sensible thing.。
I look at Wanda was her name.。
And I said, "Ms. Wanda,。
"I don't have my driver's license on me.。
"Please have mercy.。
"Is there anything you can do?"。
To which she, and I'll give her credit,。
very politely responded, "I'm so sorry, sir.。
"You will in fact have to rebook."。
There were no other flights that day.。
So rebooking is not an option.。
Like I cannot rebook a flight because again,。
I've got to get there by that evening。
to preach to these students.。
And it was like, "Oh, well just go home。
"and get your driver's license."。
Like no big deal, man.。
Like just hop in the car.。
I lived in Houston, Texas.。
Houston is widely spread out at the time.。
And so it's like a 45, 50 minute drive,。
one way to get my license.。
And my flight is boarding within an hour.。
So I don't have time to do that.。
And so I double down, I lean in to Ms. Wanda。
and I'm like, "Hold on,。
"let me just really explain to you what's happening here.。
"You know, I'm a pastor。
"and I'm traveling to speak to some students。
"and they're not just any students,。
"they're troubled teens, you know,。
"and they're not just troubled teens.。
"You know, this is happening this weekend.。
"It's not just any weekend.。
"This is actually my birthday weekend。
"and I'm so sacrificial。
"and I'm gonna be making this trip。
"in order to speak to these students.。
"Is there anything you can do?"。
And finally, there's a chink in the armor。
and she looks at me and says,。
"Well, do you have any other identification。
"you can provide me with?。
"Any other proof that you are who you say you are?。
"That you're not walking in。
"with somebody else's boarding pass,。
"but you are in fact the genuine article of Kylan Perry?"。
I keep a clean backpack, people.。
Like I'm not walking around with a bunch of stuff。
just floating in my bag。
that I could pull out and identify myself with.。
And nothing on my phone works.。
Like I'm not allowed to just pull up my Facebook。
or pull up my Instagram。
or pull up a sermon of me preaching at the porch.。
Like that doesn't work for her。
even though it's my name and my face in real time.。
None of that stuff works.。
I've got to provide something in print for her。
with my name that has some sense of veracity behind it.。
And wouldn't you know, there is a God.。
Because in my bag,。
I had a government issued document。
that I'd received that week at the office.。
I had a W-2 in my possession.。
Never did I think I would thank God for taxes,。
but I had my W-2, I showed it to Wanda.。
And after a few more questions,。
some very extensive screening,。
they cleared me to board my flight.。
Why?。
Because I had proof of my identity.。
I had proof of my identity.。
Why do I tell you that?。
Because tonight, Paul is going to tell。
this group of young believers,。
the Church of Colossae,。
which we were introduced to last week.。
He's going to tell them,。
"Hey, there's a way for you to verify。
that you are who you say you are in Christ.。
There's some proof that we can point to。
that will add a sense of veracity。
that you are who you say you are."。
Like just like TSA needed evidence to verify。
that I was Kylan Perry,。
Paul's going to look at us and say,。
"Hey, there is some proof that you are in Christ Jesus."。
It's sort of a diagnostic for the believer,。
the passage we're looking at tonight.。
Just like your teacher in grade school, high school,。
would show you an answer key。
that you could check your work against。
and see where you were right and where you were wrong.。
That's what this passage does.。
It's an answer key for the Christian life in a sense.。
But before we jump into the proof,。
we've got to look at some of the precursors to that proof.。
Like Paul's going to show us,。
"Hey, there's a bunch of effect。
by way of you walking with Jesus,。
but there's something that we need to understand。
before we get to that effect.。
We've got to understand the cause for all of that proof,。
for all of that evidence."。
And that's where he starts.。
If you've got a Bible,。
Colossians chapter one is where we're at.。
If you don't have a copy of the scripture, don't worry.。
It's on the screens behind me.。
You can just track along with us as it pops up.。
And here's what Paul says.。
We're going to pick it up in verse nine.。
And so from the day we heard,。
from the day we heard what Paul?。
Of everything that we talked about last week,。
that he's writing to a group of young believers,。
just like yourself.。
And he's saying, "Hey, we've heard。
that you have a splendid reputation,。
that you have all the markings of Christlikeness。
in your life.。
We've heard about it."。
Like Paul, he's never met this group of believers.。
He's heard about it by way of a guy named Epaphras,。
a local to Colossae that was in Ephesus。
when Paul was preaching.。
And so he's heard the good report of their behavior,。
of their belief, which precedes that behavior.。
And so he's saying, "Hey, from the day we heard all of that,。
that you've got a good reputation,。
you look everything like a believer,。
we've not ceased to pray for you,。
asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will。
in all spiritual wisdom and understanding."。
We said this last week, but just to catch you up,。
if this is your very first time,。
the big idea of the book of Colossians。
is that clarity of Christ produces maturity in life.。
Clarity of Christ produces maturity in life,。
that if you want to progress as a person,。
if you want to grow as an individual,。
if you want to move forward in society,。
if you want to be the best you, you can be.。
The way to do it is with Jesus.。
It's by getting the clearest vision of him possible,。
which would have been really important to these believers。
because they live at a time and in a context。
where all manner of false teaching。
was beginning to pervade their midst and tell them,。
"No, no, no, you don't need to follow Jesus.。
You need to do this instead.。
Learn this new moral ethic.。
Worship this different type of spirituality.。
Learn this new level of superior knowledge.。
Ascend intellectually."。
But Paul's saying, "No, no, no, no,。
like you don't need all of that.。
You need knowledge of Christ,。
but not just any kind of knowledge,。
not just general knowledge.。
You need to be filled with knowledge."。
Like instead of looking outside of Christ。
for greater fullness, he's praying,。
"Look deeper into Christ。
for all of the fullness that you want."。
Do you want to grow?。
Are you in the room right now and you're like, "I do.。
Kyle and I want to be mature."。
It's with Jesus.。
That's how you grow.。
That's how you move forward.。
That's how you advance as a person,。
superior human existence.。
It doesn't exist somewhere else.。
It's with Him.。
And Paul is so adamant about helping us catch。
that this is true,。
that he references the idea of fullness。
six times in six verses.。
Fill you with knowledge,。
all wisdom and understanding in every way,。
in every good work,。
strengthened with all power, giving, joy, full things.。
Why does he do this?。
Because he wants there to be no mistake.。
In Jesus, we have access to all the knowledge of God。
we could ever want.。
All the fullness of the deity,。
the climax of spiritual experience,。
whatever existence you're hoping will be ahead of you.。
As great as that is, it's better with Him.。
That's what he's saying.。
And yet,。
what the world is saying,。
is Jesus alone will not satisfy.。
Now you need to look elsewhere.。
Like, God's fine,。
but is He really the only author of all truth?。
Now just define your own, man.。
What's your truth?。
You pick it for yourself.。
Or the world's looking at Jesus and saying,。
man, the sexual ethic of Christianity is so lame.。
You can just do whatever you prefer instead.。
Or the world is looking at Jesus。
in the way that He articulates。
God's grand design for all things.。
And it says,。
I think actually,。
I'm gonna redefine my reality。
and assume whatever gender I want.。
You see, the world wants you to grab onto the lie。
that satisfaction is not found in God alone.。
You'll never find it in Him alone.。
But Paul, by the working of the Holy Spirit。
wants you to know,。
satisfaction will only ever be found in God alone.。
That's what he's pointing to.。
That's what he wants us。
and these believers in Colossae to grasp.。
And it's not just a general knowledge,。
but it's a specific knowledge.。
He wants them to be filled with all knowledge.。
In what ways?。
In all spiritual wisdom and understanding.。
Which I don't know about you,。
but when I read that, felt confusing.。
Thank you, Paul, for just using more Christian language.。
Right?。
All spiritual wisdom and understanding?。
Like, are you just saying the same thing?。
It feels like he's saying the same thing,。
but there's some nuance between these two ideas.。
There is a difference if you look at the original Greek。
and you try to understand what the words。
for understanding and wisdom actually mean.。
So the word for understanding in Greek is synaesis.。
Say synaesis with me.。
Synaesis.。
Congratulations.。
You can speak another language, you know?。
When we read the word synaesis,。
synaesis means to put the facts together.。
That's what it means.。
Understanding, putting the facts together.。
It's comprehension of an idea that I've learned something。
and I comprehend it fully.。
It's book smarts.。
But wisdom is sophia.。
Sophia.。
If you're Sophia in here,。
according to Greek, your name means wisdom.。
Sophia.。
Wisdom is to live with skill.。
So if understanding synaesis means to comprehend an idea,。
wisdom, sophia, is the application of that idea.。
It's street smarts.。
One is book smarts.。
One is street smarts.。
They go together.。
They're two sisters tied at the hip.。
They have to move together as we consider。
what God's revealing about himself in the scriptures.。
So just a few years ago, Brooke and I,。
we took a trip to Italy.。
And we knew that over the course of a couple of weeks,。
we were gonna be traveling during our time there,。
which meant that I need to get really familiar。
with Italian traffic law.。
So what did I do?。
As I was applying for an international driver's license,。
I knew that what I needed is I needed to。
gain a basic understanding of how Italy navigated its roads.。
And so I did a thorough Google search。
and took good notes and tried to understand。
as much as possible.。
And then I applied that knowledge。
as we drove around the country of Italy.。
I had understanding and I had wisdom。
for that understanding.。
I had comprehension of an idea。
and then I had application of that idea。
as we drove around Rome,。
which if you've ever done, it's terrifying.。
Paul is saying this.。
He's saying that we need to comprehend who God is。
and we need to apply our lives accordingly.。
How do you do this?。
How do you comprehend who God is。
and then apply your life accordingly?。
Well, there's a bunch of different ways you could do it.。
But here's the simplest.。
So if you're like me,。
I'm gonna give it to you as plain as possible.。
This is the way that you grow in the knowledge of God。
and you apply that knowledge.。
You look to Jesus.。
You look to Jesus.。
Jesus Christ is the essence of God's character。
and he is the expression of God's nature.。
You look to him, you imitate his example,。
which is really kind of God。
because this is the basic way。
by which all children actually learn to grow.。
It's through observational learning,。
according to psychologists,。
that children, even infants, they look at other people,。
they look at their parents or they look at their siblings。
and as they observe the world around them,。
they pick up cues of what they themselves are supposed to do.。
So if you're here and you're like, man, I'm immature.。
How do I grow like a child?。
Observe Jesus.。
Get your eyes on him.。
Get your eyes fixed on him.。
Observe the way he lives and speaks。
and moves and conducts himself.。
Like just take notes as you see in the gospels,。
the way that he interacts with people。
or the things that he says or those abnormalities,。
which feel really out of character for regular society.。
Take note of all of it。
because he's setting an example for you to follow after.。
He wants you to see in him knowledge。
and understanding of God。
and a wisdom to apply that knowledge.。
So say you do this.。
How do you know if you're growing?。
What proof do you have?。
Well, that's where Paul goes next.。
And this is the diagnostic portion of the passage。
that I was telling you about.。
He's going to give us four proofs for the Christian life.。
So here's where the rubber meets the road.。
If you're in the room tonight。
and you consider yourself a believer,。
then this is a really important passage for you to consider。
because it's going to take your life。
and it's going to say, okay, man,。
if this is what you claim to be,。
then this is what you should look like.。
It was convicting for me to read through.。
And so I would just ask you, if you follow Christ,。
make yourself available to the work。
of the Holy Spirit's conviction。
as we work through the rest of this,。
because I think it will bring to you。
what it's brought to me,。
enlightenment of what I need to work on,。
of where I need to direct my time and my attention。
and where God wants to grow me.。
I want to grow.。
Do you?。
Well, then let's read.。
Pick it up in verse 10.。
So be filled with all knowledge.。
So as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord,。
fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work。
and increasing in the knowledge of God,。
be strengthened with all power。
according to his glorious might。
for all endurance and patience with joy,。
giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you。
to share in the inheritance, the saints of light.。
So what proof do we have that we're growing in Christ?。
Well, the very first thing that Paul points to。
is you try to walk in a manner worthy of Christ.。
The first proof you should see is that you're bearing fruit.。
That's it.。
Proof number one is you bear fruit.。
I think it's really helpful that Paul。
uses agrarian language。
and he talks about fruit bearing as an illustration here。
because the fruitfulness of a tree。
directly correlates to the health of that tree.。
So you've heard me say this before,。
but I grew up on a farm.。
My dad and I, we'd go out in the wintertime,。
we would cut firewood.。
When we would walk through the woods together。
and we would assess the trees around us,。
we would try to identify which trees were alive。
and which trees were dead.。
How would we identify which was which?。
We would look for signs of life.。
Signs of life.。
The trees are green.。
The bark is fresh.。
Even the smell of it is alive.。
Whereas on the other hand,。
if a tree's dying or it's diseased,。
it has signs of death and disease.。
It shows its decay.。
You see the leaves are withering。
and the bark is falling。
and the core is chalky.。
Like you can identify very quickly。
what trees are alive and which are dead.。
You see, if something is dead,。
then something is wrong.。
The Christian life is similar.。
Your spiritual fruit will speak to your spiritual health.。
Your spiritual fruit will speak to your spiritual health.。
Galatians 5.22, very famous, it says,。
"But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace,。
"patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness,。
"general self-control.。
"Against such things there is no law."。
When you look at your life,。
let me just put the question in front of you.。
What fruit do you see?。
When you look at your life,。
what fruit do you see?。
Listen to me on this.。
If you see an absence of fruit in your life,。
Christian, the issue is not with your ability to bear fruit.。
The issue is with your proximity to God.。
That's the issue.。
John 15.5 tells us, "I am the vine."。
This is Jesus Christ speaking.。
"I am the vine.。
"You are the branches.。
"Whoever abides in me and I in him,。
"he, she it is that bears much fruit.。
"For apart from me, you can do nothing."。
Which just means that without Jesus,。
fruit bearing is impossible.。
But with Jesus, fruit bearing is inevitable.。
Without Jesus, fruit bearing is impossible.。
You cannot do it on your own.。
But with Jesus, it's inevitable.。
It's gonna happen.。
You plug your computer in,。
or you plug your phone in,。
overnight, what happens?。
It automatically updates.。
Plug yourself into the Lord.。
Like connect yourself to Christ.。
Automatically update.。
Synced in with the Spirit.。
Move forward with him.。
Bear good fruit.。
Look like Christ in his Spirit's fruit.。
But you gotta stay with him.。
You see, we cannot control the outcomes。
of our spirituality,。
but we can control the inputs for our spirituality.。
That's why Paul talks about good works right here.。
Like good works.。
He's not saying, "Hey, you need to moralistically ascend.。
"You gotta be a better person.。
"You gotta have eyes to see everything good out there。
"that you can do."。
No, that would be exhausting.。
No, he's saying, "No, is there good work in your life?"。
Because those are the inputs you control.。
Like that's what it looks like.。
You cannot control the outputs.。
You cannot control the fruit,。
but you can control the inputs.。
And those are the good works。
that you get the pleasure of walking in.。
You see, in verse seven,。
Paul doesn't praise the Colossians。
simply because they've learned the truth from Epaphras.。
"Hey guys, you got it, awesome."。
No, he rejoices that their faith。
has produced concrete results.。
Their faith produced concrete results.。
Their belief has led to a right and appropriate behavior.。
But it's not one without the other.。
It goes together.。
Scholars, they call this the principle。
of orthodoxy and orthopraxy.。
That's how the book of Colossians is set up.。
First half, all orthodoxy.。
Do you know the right things?。
And the second half, orthopraxy.。
Do you do the right things?。
They go together.。
You cannot evaluate one without the other.。
And yet, here's the thing.。
Our culture does not agree with this sort of mentality。
because our culture is plagued。
with a low information to action ratio.。
Like we are regularly accustomed what is good to do,。
but we are also regularly accustomed。
to do nothing good with that information.。
So a lot of you, just gonna say this honestly,。
as I visited with the fellas,。
you know how to date.。
Then why won't you initiate with her?。
(congregation laughing)。
You know you should confess.。
So why then are you hiding sin?。
You know you should pray.。
Why then are our prayer gatherings empty?。
Like we know what to do,。
but we're unwilling to actually do it.。
You know, man, I should apologize to that person.。
I should seek their forgiveness.。
But man, I just don't wanna give them the satisfaction.。
We do this all the time.。
Too often we're all orthodoxy,。
and we're no orthopraxy.。
We know what to do, but we fail to do it.。
Just a couple of weeks ago, Brooke and I,。
we were driving home late from dinner one evening。
with my sister and her family.。
I've told some of you this story already,。
but we were driving home, and it was late in the evening,。
and right as we hit our exit ramp,。
we're just a few blocks from the house,。
we're pulling off, and we pass a young lady。
whose car has a flat tire.。
And so you know, I see it, and I sinfully just like。
push the gas pedal down, like we gotta get home, man.。
You know, like maybe Brooke won't see it.。
But she did, and I married a really godly woman.。
And so she said, "Hold on, like we gotta go back,。
"and we gotta help."。
So we turn the car around, we back up.。
At 10.45 at night, I walk up and introduce myself。
to this young lady.。
I'm like, "Hey, my name's Kylan, you got a flat tire.。
"Can I help in any way?。
"I work in ministry, I'm a pastor, you know,。
"I'm safe, don't worry.。
"Can I help?。
"Is there anything I can do?"。
And so we take some time, and we work on this flat tire,。
and we change it out, and get her on the road.。
She drives home, she's really grateful.。
It was awesome, it was a really good thing to do.。
I was really grateful.。
I went home tired, but I went home full,。
which is a good measure of the Christian life.。
Here's what's crazy.。
The next morning comes along, and my full anticipation。
is that, man, we did a good thing last night,。
and that's the extent of it, you know?。
Like, we helped someone, we changed their tire,。
they drove off into the sunset, amazing!。
Like, great evening, my wife is happy.。
This worked out really well.。
That would've been enough.。
But God knew I'd preach this, and I'd see you.。
And so what he decided to do was take the story even further。
because I received a text from this young lady.。
She texted my wife and I,。
because we had just given her our number to say,。
"Hey, let us know if you have any trouble getting home."。
So she texts us the next morning, and she says,。
"Hey, thank you so much for last night.。
"I'm not sure what I would've done."。
You know, it's crazy.。
I was thinking about it.。
I was at the point of giving up on God.。
But you pulling over and helping me。
helped me to realize he's not giving up on me.。
(congregation applauding)。
We are not applauding my good work.。
We are applauding the faithfulness of God。
to see that woman and move into her story.。
That's what we're applauding here.。
But here's why I tell all of this to you,。
for very seldomly will I put myself up as an example.。
I hope you gather from the fact。
that I didn't necessarily want to stop.。
I put that in front of you because I just want you to know。
I did not know the good fruit, but I saw the good work,。
and I stepped into it, and that would've been enough.。
But God gave me the good kindness of showing me。
exactly what he wanted to do that night.。
And someone's story's different because of it.。
Friends, you cannot produce good fruit。
if you avoid good works.。
You cannot produce good fruit if you avoid good works.。
We were not made to live like that.。
Ephesians 2:10 tells us, "For we are his workmanship."。
He's worked on us.。
You are his craftsmanship.。
He's taken you out of the shop.。
He's been working on you in the shop.。
He's been working you up.。
You're his workmanship,。
created in Christ Jesus for good works.。
That's what he made you for.。
He made you to do good, to see a broken and busted world。
and say, "I'm gonna intercept that.。
"I'm gonna help.。
"My Jesus did that for me.。
"Let me now do what my Jesus has done for them."。
That's what he's saying.。
So God, he's prepared good works for you beforehand。
that you should walk in them.。
This is the first proof Paul gives of our identity in Christ。
is that we bear good fruit.。
The second thing is that we grow in knowledge.。
The second proof is growing knowledge.。
He says in verse 10,。
"That part about walking in a manner worthy of the Lord。
"is increasing in our knowledge of God."。
What does that mean?。
It means we care enough to learn about him.。
That's what it means.。
To grow in knowledge means you care enough。
to learn about someone or something.。
I love visiting with my brother-in-law.。
He's got three kids and he is an expert at all of them.。
Like he watches them.。
He observes the ways that they play and they talk。
and the things they tinker with and do.。
He is an expert, a student of his kids.。
Why?。
Because he loves them.。
He loves them deeply.。
So he learns about them.。
He has an increasing knowledge of their uniquenesses.。
This is how healthy relationships work, Forge.。
If you wanna know someone well,。
you grow in your knowledge of them.。
The same thing is true with God.。
If you want to know God, you have to learn about him.。
You have to spend time with him.。
You have to listen to him.。
You have to see the things that he cares about.。
It's not enough to simply have fervor and passion for God.。
Right?。
Like I've talked a lot from this platform。
about one end of the spectrum, which is intellectualism.。
The other end of the spectrum is emotionalism.。
We cannot go towards either or.。
We must find ourselves in the center.。
Here's why.。
Because a lot of people have done terribly heinous things。
in the name of God on the basis of passion and zeal.。
Emotion's not enough.。
I want you to feel deeply about God.。
I want you to be burdened for him.。
I want you to care when you wake up in the morning。
and care more when you lay down at night.。
But you must also have an informed emotion.。
It's both and they go together.。
You see, we cannot grow in God。
if we will not learn about God.。
We cannot grow in him if we will not learn about him.。
That's what the author of Hebrews says.。
Chapter five, verses 12 through 14, he says,。
"In fact, though by this time you ought to be teachers,。
"people that communicate knowledge,。
"you need someone to teach you。
"the elementary truths of God's word all over again.。
"You need milk, not solid food.。
"Anyone who lives on milk, being still an infant,。
"is not acquainted with the teaching about righteousness.。
"But solid food is for what?。
"The mature.。
"By who?。
"Constant use."。
Constant use.。
"Not an impulsive passion,。
"but a daily discipline,。
"have trained themselves to distinguish good from evil."。
What's he saying here?。
It's good for us to grow in our knowledge, why?。
Because that's how we discern between good and evil.。
That's how we discern between good and evil.。
So second driver's license story of the night.。
I failed my driver's test when I turned 16 years old.。
Anybody else willing to just admit that with me?。
Feels good, not alone.。
I failed my driver's test when I was 16 years old, why?。
I didn't read the book.。
I did not choose to read the book.。
Like I assumed that by way of what I saw other people do。
and what I suspected would be right,。
I thought that that would be enough.。
I thought, man, I don't need to read this thing.。
I know well enough on my own.。
I've been driving around in cars for 16 years.。
What's a book gonna tell me?。
I already got this.。
I walked in, I failed the thing.。
So you know what I did next?。
I read the book.。
(congregation laughing)。
I learned well, I took detailed notes.。
I made flashcards, man.。
I knew that thing better than any textbook。
I studied in high school, why?。
Because I needed the book to get the thing I wanted.。
I needed the book to get the thing that I wanted.。
I wanted freedom.。
Life on the open road.。
Life is a highway, man.。
Like I gotta get out there and go.。
I can't stay boxed in with my mom.。
Like I've gotta get my own wills.。
I wanted what it offered, freedom and life and joy.。
If you want freedom and life and joy and peace and depth,。
then you need to read the book.。
It's the greatest thing that's ever been given to me。
is this.。
Not because it's full of a bunch of right ideas,。
helpful concepts, moralistic deism to track with,。
but because it is the word of my God.。
I read it and I don't hear myself, I hear him.。
That's why I love it.。
That's why I return to it.。
If you want all the fullness of life that's available,。
the freedom that's out there in the open,。
ahead and moving forward with God,。
the way you get what you want。
is you cling to what you need, which are his words.。
That's what Psalm 1 says.。
Blessed is the man whose delight is in the law of the Lord。
and on his law, he meditates day and night.。
He's like a tree planted by streams of water。
that yields its fruit in its season。
and its leaf does not wither。
and all that that man, that woman does, they prosper.。
Does that look like your life?。
In season, out of season,。
fruit bearing leaves that do not wither.。
Does that look like you?。
Here's a better question.。
Do you want that to look like you?。
Then delight in his word.。
We grow in knowledge.。
That's the second proof.。
Third proof we see in verse 11,。
being strengthened with all power。
according to his glorious might。
for all endurance and patience.。
Third proof is godly strength.。
We bear fruit, we grow in knowledge。
and then we have a godly strength about us.。
Not just any kind of strength,。
but a strength that is sourced in his glorious might,。
meaning that we have strength。
that draws from an inexhaustible supply.。
So your phone, it is decreasing in its life。
over the course of a day,。
but when you plug it in, it's increasing in life.。
Why?。
Because it's no longer drawing on its own capacity,。
but on the capacity of something that's greater.。
That's what's true for the believer.。
We're connected to the true vine.。
We're connected to God.。
And because we're connected to him,。
we have an inexhaustible source of power.。
And yet here's what's interesting.。
Like this power is one that is unique in its essence.。
It's not just power to get out there。
and do whatever you want.。
Seize the day, baby.。
Like that's not what it is.。
Paul, he knows what kind of power this is very specifically.。
He says in 2 Corinthians 12, verses nine through 10,。
some of my favorite verses.。
But he said to me, God said to me,。
Paul, my grace is sufficient.。
It's enough for you, Paul,。
for my power is made perfect in your weakness.。
Therefore, I will boast all the more gladly。
of my weaknesses so that the power of Christ。
may rest upon me.。
Like, no, when I'm weak, then I'm strong.。
I will boast in my weakness, in the test,。
in the trial, in the trauma.。
Why?。
Because it's in that moment that the power of God。
from on high, the almighty, the ancient of days,。
it rests on my life.。
That's what I want.。
That's what Paul knows.。
That's the kind of power here.。
For the sake of Christ, then I'm content with my weaknesses,。
insults and hardships and persecutions and calamities.。
For when I'm weak, then I'm strong.。
It's fascinating.。
In this passage, Paul speaks of the power of Christ。
in the same way that he talks about here in Colossians 1.。
He's saying that there's a power from God。
that is useful for us when things get tough,。
when life is hard, when you feel weak.。
Why do I know that?。
How is that characteristic of this passage?。
Because he says that that power is described in two ways,。
through patience and endurance.。
That's what he wants us to get into.。
He wants us to know that whenever your weaknesses arise,。
God's power abounds.。
Whenever your weaknesses arise, God's power abounds.。
And we need to know, like, man, as we meet。
our fair share of adversity and affliction。
over the course of our life,。
'cause the Christian life is not free of pain.。
In this trouble, in this world, you will have trouble.。
But take heart, I've overcome the world.。
Prosperity gospel, absolute rubbish.。
Don't listen to it, nor believe it.。
It's not true.。
God has not promised you in following his son。
that you will have health, wealth and happiness.。
It's just not the case.。
Because we know Jesus himself, he's spoken against the idea.。
No, there's gonna be a hard life ahead of you,。
the hard life ahead of all of us.。
And so what you will need as a believer。
is you will need patience and you will need endurance.。
Now, there's a lot we can say about endurance and patience,。
but here's what I wanna do.。
I just wanna spend a little bit of time on one idea。
about patience and endurance。
that I think could be useful to you.。
And it's this, it's that these virtues,。
they are not passive in nature.。
Patience, virtue, they are not passive in nature.。
It's not human instinct and natural resolve。
to endure some unpleasantness。
or patiently persist through pain.。
You don't instinctively move that way.。
When some calamity befalls you,。
your natural instinct isn't, oh, this is hard,。
but I will pleasantly endure underneath it.。
(congregation laughing)。
When someone's rude to you,。
when they hurt you, tear you down,。
your reaction is not, well, this is very unpleasant,。
but I will gladly listen longer.。
That's not the natural human instinct.。
We don't do that.。
What do we do?。
We fight back.。
How dare you, manly?。
No, you're not gonna get to do that to me.。
And yet what we know is that while these are not。
passive virtues for the human experience,。
these are active virtues of God's essence.。
These are not passive virtues of moral people.。
They're active virtues of God's power.。
They're active.。
They require intentionality.。
I think priest, theologian, Henry Nguyen,。
he said it really well。
when he talked about patience specifically.。
He said, "The word patience means the willingness。
"to stay where we are and live the situation out to the full。
"in the belief that something meaningful is hidden there.。
"Impatient people are always expecting the real thing。
"to happen somewhere else,。
"and therefore they wanna go elsewhere.。
"The moment is empty,。
"but patient people dare to stay where they are."。
Why would they dare to stay where they are?。
Because they know God,。
and as a result of knowing Him,。
they've trusted Him.。
So where for you tonight is your patience persisting?。
Is your endurance eroding?。
Where is your resolve wavering?。
Is it your singleness?。
Your workplace satisfaction?。
Is it your happiness in life,。
the amount of money that drops into your bank account。
every couple weeks?。
Is it frustrations with family?。
Is it some addiction you can't seem to conquer,。
finding friends in a new city, despair, depression?。
Porsche, whatever it is, you need to remember this,。
the strength to hold on,。
to keep going, to not give up.。
It is not found in you.。
It's found in Him,。
and He wants freely to give you that strength。
according to His own power.。
That's His desire for you.。
This is the third proof.。
The fourth proof is gratitude.。
Gratitude, that's what it says in verse 12.。
He says, "With joy, giving thanks to the Father。
"who has qualified you to share in the inheritance。
"of the saints in light."。
What motivates the Christian to be grateful to God?。
That's calling to mind what Christ Jesus has done for us.。
That's what motivates our gratitude.。
It's fascinating.。
Gratitude in our culture, it's a pretty unpopular idea.。
It's pretty counter-cultural, actually.。
People, they'll express thanks cordially.。
You hold the door open,。
and they'll give you a cursory appreciation for it,。
but really what our culture, what the world delights in。
are things like the victim mentality,。
chronic complaining, and entitlement.。
All of these things are not the same as gratitude.。
Which is why Paul commands thanksgiving in this verse.。
Gratitude is more than just a gut reaction.。
You see, true gratitude is not just a cursory reaction,。
but a conscious recognition of God's goodness.。
True gratitude is not a cursory reaction.。
Hey, man, thanks for doing that.。
That was really nice of you.。
No, it's a conscious recognition。
of God's goodness in your life.。
That's why Paul goes on in verses 13 and 14。
to give us reason for our gratitude.。
We should, if we truly believe in Christ,。
experience gratefulness。
because he has delivered us from the domain of darkness.。
He has transferred us into the kingdom of his beloved son。
in whom we have redemption and the forgiveness of sins.。
When I was a boy growing up,。
my parents were militant。
about making us well-mannered people.。
Militant, man, like my mom would pull up,。
and I'm outside, and I'm helping her with the groceries,。
or we're out to dinner, and I'm not on my phone,。
but I'm engaging in conversation.。
When we would go to my grandparents,。
we would always ask for permission to get up from the table,。
go around the table, and thank everyone.。
Some of you are nodding your heads。
because you're like, dude, that is my childhood.。
Here's the thing that was crazy.。
I would go around, and I would thank people。
that did not contribute in any way whatsoever。
to the dinner that we were eating.。
Why?。
Because that is cursory in nature.。
I'm just reacting.。
I'm not being conscious, because if I were,。
I would be thanking the appropriate parties.。
But I'm just going through the motions.。
Here's why I tell you that.。
I fear that so many of us are just going。
through the motions of gratitude.。
I think we're just moving through the motions of gratitude.。
I think we know when the chorus strikes,。
we should lift a hand, or when something good transpires,。
we should thank the Lord.。
But we're not consciously recognizing。
what God has done in Christ.。
Maybe in spurts, maybe like flashes of light。
in different moments, it'll pop up and we'll be grateful.。
But we're not consciously, daily,。
devoting ourselves to recognizing, I was lost.。
I was wretched.。
I was hopeless.。
I was trapped in my sin.。
I lived in darkness.。
God came to save me.。
God's heart is that I be near to Him.。
But I didn't want that.。
I threw myself away in my own sin.。
I chose to separate myself as far from Him as possible.。
I said, you don't need to be God in my life.。
I will be my own God.。
And yet God, in His loving kindness,。
through a grace that abounds the worst of us,。
said, I'm coming for you anyways.。
I'm gonna move in.。
I don't want you to be in the domain of darkness any longer.。
I want you in the kingdom of my beloved son.。
I want you where I am.。
That's the heart of our God.。
And so when we think that way,。
a conscious recognition of God,。
we explode into gratitude.。
I can't wait to sing in a moment.。
Like that's all I want is to be near to Him again.。
He's near to me right now,。
but God, I want to experience you once more.。
I want the truths of these lyrics to wash over me again.。
I wanna go back into that chorus.。
And even when we're done singing,。
I wanna walk out into the talent center。
and I wanna be grateful to the people around me.。
I want thanks to spill out of my life,。
not just off my lips.。
This is the fourth proof of the Christian life.。
Mindfulness of the gospel leads to thankfulness to God.。
And the reason we know that we can be mindful of the gospel。
and that will produce a gratitude。
is because Jesus Christ has done everything we've talked。
about.。
He's born fruit.。
He came and He lived the life that you can't live.。
He did walk into the good works,。
which His Father had prepared in advance,。
but He didn't just bear good fruit in His life.。
He came and He gave us knowledge.。
Like He imparted to you the will of God,。
which was your salvation.。
But not only that, not just pray the prayer, get saved,。
no, walk with me forever.。
Come be like me, come be near me.。
(gentle music)。
Jesus lived with the godliest of strengths。
for His strength was so stalwart。
that He would go to the most humiliating of deaths。
on our behalf.。
And as He hung there, the weakest moment in human history,。
as one man bore the consequence of all mankind,。
He absorbed it without but a word.。
True endurance, true patience.。
And then He has given us such a reason for gratitude.。
For though He went into the grave,。
the grave could not keep Him.。
For He was not merely a good man, He's King.。
We are the subjects to our Lord.。
We are the servants to our King.。
We are the sheep to the good shepherd.。
Do you know Him?。
These proves will not be evidence of your life if not.。
But by merely crying out,。
all of this and more can begin tonight.。
Let me pray for us.。
Father, we want to live in a manner worthy of You。
like this word says,。
but God, before we can first live。
in that manner worthy of You,。
we must behold You our Christ。
who died first for those unworthy.。
Amen.。
God, I just get this sense tonight。
that You wanna do something here.。
I don't know what it is, God.。
And I don't know what's stirring amongst the minds。
of these people here tonight.。
(gentle music)。
But this I know.。
You want more for us。
than the life, God, we so often settle for.。
And tonight, God, all of the freedom,。
all of the fullness that we've talked about,。
I believe in but a moment we will experience.。
We are grateful to You, God.。
You are Lord Christ Jesus.。
Move amongst these people.。
Some of you need to surrender tonight.。
You need to wave the white flag.。
You need to lay it all down.。
You need not follow yourself any longer.。
You need to follow Him.。
He's waiting for you.。
But not just that, He's wanting for you.。
Come to Him.。
For the believer in the room,。
what proof of the Christian life。
is not in fact evident of you?。
Repent and let us turn, not one by one, but together,。
for God is awakening us to something more.。
We love you.。
It's in Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
Poor, let's stand together at this time.。
I'm just gonna prep you for this.。
We have at least two songs that we wanna sing.。
And that's because we want this moment to linger for a bit.。
Please don't rush from here.。
Won't you believe for yourself。
that God wants something particularly, uniquely,。
individually for you right now?。
Don't rush.。
Let us lean in together and listen as He sings over us,。
and we sing in response.。
We have a team down front.。
They'd love to pray with you。
if you need to process with somebody.。
But this is your moment.。
Let us experience the goodness of God together.。
(gentle music)。
(whooshing)。
