What's going on Porch fam? My name is Isaiah. Uh, some people call me Zay.。
So I'm gonna tell y'all a little bit about me.。
I moved to Tampa Bay area when I was in middle school. In college,。
I was DMing the Porch Instagram and they had prompts running at the time and I。
ended up going back and forth with a guy on staff named Aaron Collins.。
Eventually he gave me his number and we stayed in touch. Later that summer,。
I reached out to him again. And during that call,。
he mentioned AwakendConference over Labor Day weekend.。
He said he'd get me in if I wanted to come check it out. At the time,。
I honestly was like, probably not. But as the summer went on,。
I feel like the Lord was prompting me. And looking back now,。
I definitely know it was the Lord prompting me. So I said, why not?。
And I came out by myself. I wasn't sure what to expect, but y'all,。
it blew me away for real.。
The Porch offered a welcoming space for solo attendees where I met amazing。
people to help us feel loved and valued.。
I became friends with several of them and I've stayed in touch since then.。
I still have my notes from Awakend because it was that impactful.。
But more than anything,。
that was the moment where God really started me on a journey to begin teaching。
me what it means to have a deeper understanding of the gospel,。
not just intellectually, but personally.。
So I packed up all my things and moved to Dallas in August of 2023.。
Since being here almost three years,。
I have a deeper understanding that the Lord doesn't just love me.。
He actually likes me. He desires a relationship with me.。
He's not annoyed with me. He's not distant. He wants me. So friends,。
my encouragement to everyone in the room and those watching online, pray about it.。
Pray what the Lord would have you do about attending Awakend this year.。
Be obedient to what he calls you. You don't know what he could do.。
He changed my life. I had no idea I'd be coming back to Dallas, uh, in 2023,。
but here I am. And so that's my encouragement for you guys.。
Thanks for listening.。
