(rock music)。
- Tribute to Jimi Hendrix or something.。
How we doing?。
(audience cheering)。
Come on.。
Welcome to the porch.。
So glad you're here, Fort Worth, Houston, around the world.。
We're glad you're tuned in with us this evening.。
My name is JP and I have the privilege。
of diving into God's word with you.。
And recently, so like last week,。
this friend of mine gave me a Nest.。
You guys know what these are?。
Like the smart thermostat.。
Anybody have one?。
Dude, they're amazing.。
They're so cool 'cause they save you money。
and they like know when you're home and when you're not。
and it like adjusts the temperature,。
the climate of your house and it's pretty incredible.。
So there's a shout out for Nest.。
But so he gives me one and he's like,。
hey, we can install it in your house.。
It will take about 15 minutes.。
And so I called him, you know,。
I guess it was like last Thursday and he comes over。
and so it took me about 15 minutes。
to find the screwdriver, okay?。
And so then like another 15 minutes。
to remove the first screw.。
And then about 45 minutes later,。
like I had unplugged these five wires to my old thermostat。
and had hooked up the five wire,。
which is just dangerous, let's agree,。
but I had hooked up the five wires to the new thermostat。
and I'm excited and we like,。
you program it to your internet,。
like you have to put in your WiFi password。
and all that, it's amazing.。
And then I'm getting this error message.。
Like it's not working.。
And he had said early on, hey, we should flip the breaker.。
Like we should turn off,。
You're supposed to turn off the breaker before you do this.。
But I had already touched the wires。
and they didn't shock me,。
so I'm like, low voltage wires, it'll be fine.。
And as we're hooking it up,。
and we like Google the error message。
and we can't figure out what's going on,。
and so we call customer service.。
It's about, let's see, so it's about 10 p.m. at this point.。
We're on the phone with customer service.。
They're like, okay, let's troubleshoot this,。
which has me running back and forth to the breaker box.。
Flip the breaker, flip it on, flip it off, flip it on.。
Move this wire, plug it here, plug it here, plug it here.。
And I'm just trying to figure out。
why this thing's not working.。
And lo and behold, so about 11.15 p.m.,。
I'm on the phone with customer service.。
We've escalated to tier two.。
And I've got to get up at 5.45 a.m. the next morning.。
So I'm like, okay, buddy, I need you to level with me.。
Like, how much longer will this take?。
Like, 'cause man, I've got to go to bed.。
And how sure are you that you're actually。
gonna be able to fix this problem?。
And he's like, man, it's gonna take me。
about 20 more minutes of troubleshooting.。
And then I'll just be able to tell you。
what's wrong with it.。
I don't know that we'll actually be able to fix it.。
And I'm like, okay, peace out.。
So basically, I undo that one.。
And I unplug the five wires.。
I get my old thermostat.。
I'm like, hey, we have to go back to where we started.。
And we'll pick this up some other day.。
But I've got to go to sleep, got to catch some Zs.。
And so put the old one back up.。
And it doesn't work.。
You know, an irony of ironies,。
there's another family staying with us this night。
because their AC was out.。
How hysterical, how hilarious is that?。
And so they're staying with us。
because their AC didn't work.。
And now, and this is like after Monica said,。
why do you have to do this so late?。
And I wouldn't do this.。
And so like, she's like biting her tongue。
from the big, I told you so.。
And now the old thermostat doesn't work either.。
Turns out what had happened was,。
because I didn't flip the breakers early on,。
I actually shorted out my main AC unit, okay?。
Yeah, yeah.。
I destroyed the very thing I was trying to make better.。
And as you think about why, it's because, two reasons.。
One, because I had missed some key instruction early on.。
I overlooked out of convenience。
some very important instruction early on.。
And not only that, but I misunderstood the consequences.。
I thought, oh, you want me to flip the breaker。
so I don't get shocked.。
No, I want you to flip the breaker。
so you don't have to spend hundreds of dollars。
repairing your AC.。
Oh, so I just misunderstood the consequences.。
And we ended up in a hot mess.。
And as, thank you.。
And as I think about that,。
and as I think about that, and I look at our country,。
I'm asking this about our country.。
How did we end up in this hot mess?。
How did we get here?。
This is crazy.。
The most controversial election of all time.。
We're moving toward the date where we vote.。
Most of us are discouraged, scratching our head,。
not knowing what to do.。
Some of us are very opinionated.。
We think we have the right answer.。
And we figured it out.。
And so we're very vocal and we're just kind of discouraged.。
How did we get in this hot mess?。
And I think it's because we missed some key instructions.。
And we've misunderstood the consequences,。
specifically this generation, our generation,。
your and my generation.。
Call us millennials if you please.。
But I think we've made some mistakes.。
See, last year, marriage, an institution invented by God,。
was redefined for the first time since creation.。
We almost lost our religious liberty.。
Our right to bear arms came under fire.。
A mother's right to end the life of her child in the womb。
is the holocaust of our day.。
And our options for presidents are less than desirable.。
We have a narcissistic reality TV star billionaire。
and the wife of an adulterous man。
considered by some to be a criminal.。
And the biggest concern among millennials。
is global warming.。
I'm serious.。
And I'm not saying global warming's not important.。
Like we should certainly preserve this earth.。
God has called us to.。
But how did we get into this hot mess?。
And I want to kind of tell you,。
I want to lead with what I think it is.。
It's very interesting.。
I hope you'll hang in there with me.。
I think it has to do with one of the greatest desires。
in the room this evening.。
Sex.。
I think that a huge part of our government's problem。
actually has to do with sex, how we want it,。
whenever we want it, wherever we want it,。
however we want it, without consequences.。
And when I say we, I mean us.。
Like you and me, those of us here,。
our generation, this demographic.。
And so this evening we're talking about。
how sex has impacted government。
and why it should matter to us.。
And I know that our desire is to express love physically。
with whomever we want.。
And we want to avoid the consequences.。
And I think it's caused some of our political issues,。
especially on the topic of the redefinition of marriage。
that occurred on our watch on April 28th, 2015,。
and the topic of abortion.。
That honestly I'm encouraged。
because I think we millennials。
are actually taking ground on it.。
So listen, let me give this disclaimer up front.。
Stay with me, hang in there.。
You think you know what I'm gonna say, okay?。
I understand generally who I am speaking to.。
I have given my entire adult life。
to ministering to and through millennials。
at a cost to me for the love of you.。
And the reason I have done so is for three reasons.。
Number one, because I trusted Christ。
as a young adult in my 20s.。
I came into a relationship with Jesus Christ。
and it changed everything about my life.。
Number two, second reason,。
because I think you are the single most powerful demographic。
on the face of the planet.。
If anyone is going to change the world or save the world,。
it is going to be God working through you.。
And number three, because the majority of your peers。
are following their feelings。
and doing what they think is wise in their own eyes。
and they're leaving the church。
and abandoning a biblical worldview in droves。
and I believe it will hurt them。
and I believe it will hurt you and I love you。
and I don't want you to hurt, so I need you to listen.。
Please, I'm asking you this courtesy, this favor.。
Please listen to me for the next 35 minutes.。
Give me 35 minutes of your life.。
Some of you will disagree with me,。
some of you will hate me,。
some of you will be very, very angry.。
Please give me 35 minutes, hang in with me 'til the end。
and you can strengthen your argument against me。
if you'd like.。
If you agree with what I'm saying,。
you can strengthen your argument with what I'm saying.。
You may agree with half and disagree with the other half.。
I don't know where you're at,。
but I wanna talk to those of you in the room。
that just don't care。
because I don't think you can be a follower of Jesus Christ。
and not care about these issues.。
And so you're the ones I'm most。
desiring to speak to tonight and if you disagree,。
I just ask you the courtesy to write down the things。
that you disagree with and then let's engage。
in a discussion.。
I'd love the opportunity to learn from you.。
I'll stay as late as I need to.。
I'll schedule other meetings, I'll take phone calls,。
I'll read emails.。
I would love the opportunity to learn from you.。
Thank you.。
And so tonight we're gonna talk about two things done,。
two things we've done wrong。
and what I believe is the solution.。
Specifically how we've overlooked instruction,。
how we've misunderstood the consequences。
and what we need to do now.。
Abraham Lincoln said, "We are a government of the people,。
"for the people, by the people."。
Here's what that means.。
The government should do whatever is in the best interest。
of the people.。
And we may disagree what that is,。
but I thank you ahead of time for listening.。
And so the first point this evening is we've overlooked。
God's clear instruction.。
We've overlooked God's clear instruction.。
Do you remember when I shorted out that AC?。
It's because I missed this one simple instruction。
that I was to flip off the breaker。
and I thought it wasn't an important instruction。
and it led to grave consequences.。
And so what we've done as a generation is we fed。
our preferences over God's truth.。
We followed our heart and sought out our own desires。
and we've considered his truth an inconvenience,。
like taking time to flip a breaker.。
James chapter one, verse 21 says,。
"Therefore get rid of all moral filth and the evil。
"that is so prevalent and humbly accept the word of God。
"planted in you, which can save you.。
"Do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourself.。
"Do what it says."。
Anyone who listens to the word but does not do what it says。
is like someone who looks at his face in a mirror。
and after looking at himself goes away。
and immediately forgets what he looks like.。
Here's what James means.。
Jesus' brother's writing this and he's saying,。
hey, if you read the word of God。
and you don't make a change,。
it's like you looking in the mirror,。
seeing your hair all disheveled,。
seeing something on your face。
and walking away without making a change.。
The word of God is meant to change you,。
to conform you to the image and the character。
of his son Jesus Christ.。
But whoever looks intently into the perfect law。
that gives freedom and continues in it,。
not forgetting what they have heard but doing it,。
they will be blessed in what they do.。
And so primarily when our generation,。
yours and my generation is trying to figure out。
what is right, we don't follow James' instructions.。
We don't turn to God's word.。
We don't open the scriptures and say,。
God, what would you have for me?。
We follow our feelings and our opinions.。
Even when this issue of redefining marriage came up,。
we said this is about love.。
I wanna make a case that it's actually about sex.。
See, God doesn't have an issue with who you love.。
But any sexual act, listen closely,。
is condemned in the scriptures when it is not。
between a married husband and wife.。
I'll give you some scriptures.。
Leviticus 18, verse 22 says,。
do not have sexual relations with a man。
as one does with a woman.。
That is detestable.。
And you could argue that this is abolished with the law。
and this is the Old Testament law,。
but it's brought back up in the New Testament.。
First Corinthians chapter six, verse nine,。
or do you not know that wrongdoers。
will not inherit the kingdom of God,。
do not be deceived neither sexual and moral,。
nor idolaters, nor adulterers,。
nor men who have sex with men.。
You may say that word means something else.。
There is no theological credible scholarship。
that would support you in that view.。
That word can only mean,。
it's two words actually in the Greek,。
that can only mean men having sex with men.。
It's consensual, it's not rape.。
This was written to a homoerotic class。
or homoerotic culture much more than ours.。
The president of the time, the emperor, had two gay lovers.。
First Timothy chapter one, verse 10 says,。
we also know that the law is made not for the righteous,。
but for the lawbreakers and rebels,。
the ungodly and the sinful, the unholy and irreligious.。
For those who kill their fathers or mothers or murderers,。
for the sexually immoral,。
for those practicing homosexuality.。
And then Romans one, I'll get to in a minute,。
but I want you to know something.。
All these refer to the pursuit of the sexual act,。
not to the feelings.。
It is not sin to be attracted to someone of the same sex.。
I'm not gonna argue if you were born that way or not.。
Okay?。
People are born all kinds of ways.。
They're all, since Genesis chapter three,。
people are born with all kinds of ways.。
I have all sorts of desires within me。
that are not best for me.。
But it's when you take that desire。
and you do something with it。
that clearly goes against what the scripture says,。
you have to ask, what are we doing?。
So on our watch, we've allowed the government。
to redefine an institution created by God, marriage,。
to allow for a sinful act that he clearly condemns.。
And so why talk about this?。
Listen, why not talk about pornography tonight。
or heterosexual sin or materialism?。
Can we agree on something?。
Maybe it's your first time at the porch.。
Can we agree that we talk about those issues。
100 times to one?。
Can we agree that every other night you come in here。
and I'm talking about materialism or pornography。
or fornication or some other issue,。
but tonight we're talking about these two issues.。
And those issues have not been before the government。
like this one has.。
Or this other abomination that is happening on our watch,。
mostly among your peers and my peers。
is the issue of abortion.。
This is dealing with the perceived consequence of sex.。
Friends, I'm so grieved。
by the research that was done on this topic this week.。
My heart is completely broken.。
There are over one million abortions a year。
in the United States of America today.。
Yes, today over 2,500 babies were killed。
at the will of their mother today.。
And if you've made this decision,。
I know right now you are so uncomfortable.。
Can I just tell you something?。
I know it's a fourth of the women here。
and so many of you men have supported this。
and been a part of it.。
Can I tell you something?。
I love you, God loves you.。
He's not mad at you.。
He sent his son to die for this.。
Okay, he has a plan for you.。
He has a plan for your children.。
He has a plan for this story.。
He has a plan for your testimony。
that involved that action in the same way。
that I talk about pornography。
and set those engaged in pornography free.。
God working through me,。
you can set those free by telling your story。
no matter how uncomfortable it is.。
And God will use it in tremendous and incredible ways.。
But you've gotta stay with me tonight.。
Do not just get so focused.。
Don't get in your head.。
Stay with me word for word as I progress.。
Don't just get stuck in your head。
and begin to think about the past.。
Look forward, let's look forward together.。
A friend of mine who owned two abortion clinics。
and profited from the death of 40,000 babies。
before becoming a Christian was asked,。
"How do you sleep at night?"。
And she said, "Well,。
"Jesus either died for all of them or none of them,。
"and I choose to believe that he died for all of them."。
In reality, the Scripture teaches that he did.。
And so because we are talking about God's word,。
I need to show you where it says this is wrong.。
Essentially anywhere the Bible condemns。
killing another human.。
Certainly life begins at conception.。
That's been debated.。
Psalm 139, the author of life said。
that he formed you in your mother's womb.。
When John the Baptist, that's Psalm 139.。
When John the Baptist heard the news of Jesus Christ。
in the womb of Elizabeth, he leapt, leaped.。
That's Luke chapter one, verse 41.。
But then there's this, Exodus 21.。
I'll read it quickly.。
Verse 22, "If people are fighting。
"and hit a pregnant woman,"。
interesting that here this part of the law。
talks about a pregnant woman,。
"and she gives birth prematurely,。
"but there is no serious injury,。
"the offender must be fined。
"whatever the woman's husband demands。
"and the court allows.。
"But if there is serious injury,。
"you are to take life for life, eye for eye,。
"tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,。
"burn for burn, wound for wound, bruise for bruise."。
God is saying here if you hurt the baby's arm。
that he cares and asks for justice.。
And the unborn among us, friends, are the least of these.。
They cannot defend themselves.。
They cannot speak up for themselves.。
They cannot address injustices against them.。
They cannot march, they cannot cry,。
they cannot do these things.。
And Jesus says in Matthew 25, verse 45,。
"Truly I tell you, whatever you did not do。
"for one of the least of these, you did not do for me."。
Kathy Ireland, a now pro-life advocate,。
was interviewed by someone and just said,。
"Are we sure it's a life in there?。
"I just don't know that we can be sure。
"that's a human in there."。
And she responded, "Let me ask you a question.。
"If you are going to tear down a building。
"and before you hit the button releasing the explosives,。
"or before you swung the wrecking ball,。
"someone said, 'I think there might be a life in there,'。
"would you move forward?。
"Or would you search that building top to bottom,。
"making sure there was not a life in there?"。
It is a scientific fact that every abortion。
performed in the US is performed on a being。
so fully formed that its heart is beating。
and its brain activity can be measured on a EEG machine.。
We must stop defending this heinous crime against God。
and do everything within our power to put an end。
to this Holocaust in our midst.。
And if you've had an abortion, and I know many of you have,。
you know firsthand how it impacts more than the baby,。
and your story is powerful.。
Please tell it.。
I think one of the reasons that we would engage。
in these activities against the word of God。
and the will of God is because we've misunderstood。
the consequences.。
That's my second point this evening,。
is that we have misunderstood the consequences.。
See, when I didn't get shocked by installing that thermostat。
I thought that I had avoided the consequences.。
In reality, the consequences came much later。
and they were costlier and they were more uncomfortable。
than I could have imagined.。
And so friends, we are sitting in the consequences。
of the pursuit of sexual freedom。
and our efforts to avoid the consequences.。
Our sexual freedom has cost us actual freedom.。
We have celebrated the consequences.。
Let me read to you from Romans one.。
David started it two weeks ago.。
He ended here in verse 25.。
I'll recap verse 24 and 25.。
"Therefore God gave them over,"。
talking about his judgment, his wrath on a nation,。
"gave them over in the sinful desires of their hearts。
"to sexual impurity for the degrading of their bodies。
"with one another."。
They exchanged the truth about God for a lie.。
They exchanged the truth about God for a lie.。
Because of this, God gave them over to shameful lusts.。
Even their women exchanged natural sexual relations。
for unnatural ones.。
In the same way, the men also abandoned。
natural relationships with women,。
natural relations with women,。
and were inflamed with lust for one another.。
Men committed shameful acts with other men。
and received in themselves the due penalty for their error.。
"Furthermore, just as they did not think it worthwhile。
"to retain the knowledge of God,。
"so God gave them over to a depraved mind。
"so that they do what ought not to be done.。
"They have become filled with every kind of wickedness,。
"evil, greed, and depravity.。
"They are full of envy and murder and strife。
"and deceit and malice.。
"Their gossips, slanders, God-haters,。
"insolent, arrogant, and boastful.。
"They invent ways of doing evil.。
"They disobey their parents.。
"They have no understanding, no fidelity,。
"no love, no mercy.。
"Although they know God's righteous decrees。
"that those who do such things deserve death."。
Listen, listen.。
"They not only continue to do these very things,。
"but also approve of those who practice them."。
They approve of those who practice them.。
This is an indictment on our generation.。
This is an indictment on millennials.。
Why would God care about something like homosexuality?。
Because he is a loving God who loves people。
and he loves relationships.。
And so let me make this point, if I may,。
over the next few minutes.。
Those who identify as homosexual are 150% more likely。
to deal with depression, anxiety, and alcohol。
and substance abuse.。
That comes from the American Public Health Association.。
The homosexual lifestyle includes a 200% higher rate。
of suicide.。
That comes from the American Public Health Association.。
And so some would say, "Well, this is because the church."。
Have you heard that?。
"This is because the church."。
It is just absolutely not true。
because in Sweden where there is no church,。
because in Sweden, the most secularized country。
on the planet, okay, it's 300% suicide.。
Homosexuality is celebrated in Sweden, okay?。
Couples can get married there and live completely。
unpersecuted by the church at all.。
And the suicide rate has increased.。
The same in the Netherlands, which has seen higher rates。
of depression, bipolar, panic disorder, OCD,。
and psychiatric disorders.。
The 2005 Oxford Journal of Epidemiology found。
that 78% have at least one STD.。
The US CDC said that while only 3%。
of the American population identifies with homosexuality,。
this group is responsible for 50% cases of syphilis,。
60% cases of gonorrhea, 90% of gay men report。
chronic or recurrent viral infection.。
Over 75% of all HIV cases in the last five years。
are among the homosexual community.。
Until 1982, AIDS was called GRID,。
Gay-Related Immune Deficiency Syndrome.。
And why is this?。
Because a man was not designed,。
and I'm using that word designed,。
to have sex with another man.。
Likewise, with women.。
It goes against the creator's desire,。
and it is not a political situation,。
it's a spiritual situation.。
You invite in the wrath of God。
on an individual in a country, a nation.。
You have to hear me out, you have to listen to this.。
It's always harmful to go against God's intended purpose.。
In 2005, Oxford Journal of Epidemiology,。
the American Obituary Report said。
that a practicing homosexual person's life expectancy。
is 20 years shorter than their heterosexual counterpart.。
20 years shorter, two decades.。
Only 1% of homosexual men die from old age.。
And some of this is because the promiscuity。
around the LGBTQ community.。
In a study in the Journal of Sex Research surveyed。
2,583 couples, not a single couple,。
not one of the 2,583 sustained a monogamous relationship。
despite being openly married.。
The average numbers of partners was between 101 and 500.。
Male couples who identify as gay。
are 50% more likely to divorce.。
Couples who identify as lesbians,。
167% more likely to divorce.。
And so here's what you're saying,。
'cause some of you, you're angry right now.。
Listen, you would say。
that they should be able to do what they want,。
the government shouldn't speak into these such things.。
As someone engages in homosexual activity,。
they are more likely to be anxious,。
more likely to be depressed,。
more likely to commit suicide, get sick more often,。
more likely to be promiscuous and divorced,。
and cut 20 years off their life.。
And you would say, "In love, I love them."。
And I would say, "I love them more than you do."。
I've sat with them, I've prayed with them,。
I've wept with them, I've talked with them.。
I've read Scripture with them, I've counseled them,。
I've listened.。
I've been patient, I've heard rebuttals,。
I've looked at the facts,。
and I've pleaded the one thing that I can't do is say,。
"God would say it's okay, keep doing that.。
"God loves you and you're hurting yourself."。
And you say, "But I love them,。
"they should have the freedom."。
I love them more.。
That's what I am trying to show you.。
God loves them even more than you do.。
I don't want them to die 10, two decades earlier.。
Some say it's hate speech, it's not,。
it's the opposite of hate speech.。
The truth sounds like hate to those who hate the truth,。
a friend of mine said.。
And if you make same-sex marriage a civil rights issue,。
you cannot stop at just same-sex.。
As I said earlier, people are sexually attracted。
to multiple adults, people are sexually attracted。
to children, people are sexually attracted。
to all sorts of things, and so where did their rights end?。
Ben Carson, black man, said it well, when he said,。
"Do not regard your sin as my skin."。
But why do I care what the government does?。
It's not a theocracy.。
Why should the government speak into this?。
You have to understand the role of the government.。
It's to reward behaviors that make for a better land.。
This is why the government rewards a man and a woman。
staying together in the home.。
The longer they stay together in the home,。
the more the government rewards them。
with tax benefits and such.。
Why?。
Because it is a proven fact that。
when there's a mom and a dad in the home,。
their kids are less likely to go to prison,。
they're less likely to be on government financial assistance。
and so it actually helps the government.。
The government is doing what is in their best interest.。
They actually save money by rewarding this behavior.。
It's like if we said, well, we love ice cream,。
we all love ice cream, so the government。
should give us free ice cream,。
and the government comes and says, okay, you're right.。
Because you all love ice cream,。
you can have all the ice cream you want.。
It's free, it's on us.。
All that does is cost the government。
and it costs you obesity rates would skyrocket,。
people would begin to die earlier,。
and it would not be good for the land.。
And I'm not trying to be silly.。
I'm trying to show you the government's role。
and why it matters on this issue, on these issues.。
Friends, emotions have beat out logic on this one.。
Emotions.。
As millennials have raised up,。
we think we know better than thousands and thousands。
and thousands of years.。
Abortion is obviously also not best for the land.。
For those who have an abortion,。
the suicide rate associated with an abortion。
is six times higher among the women who choose to abort。
versus the moms that have the child.。
Six times higher suicide rate.。
They have an increased risk of preterm birth,。
lower fertility rate for women who have had an abortion,。
a higher fatality rate for infants,。
born to mothers who have had abortion,。
and for the child, abortions are not safe.。
Someone always dies.。
And I know that if you had one,。
you're probably not gonna be able to hear。
anything else I said.。
'Cause you're gonna be focused on your consequences.。
I want to remind you that God loves you,。
he has a plan for you and he has a plan for your children,。
and his grace is enough.。
Please stay in there with me.。
Less than you say, well, what about rape?。
Less than 1% of abortions are the decision of a woman。
who has been raped.。
Less than you say, what about the mother's life or health?。
Less than 1% of abortions are to save the mother's life.。
More than 50% of all abortions are repeat offenders,。
and the vast majority of abortions are due to inconvenience,。
well over 90% of abortions.。
The number one reason is because a baby。
would impact my school or my work.。
See, we want sex without consequences.。
And so some of you, you're here and you think about,。
some of you might be thinking,。
well, what about racial reconciliation?。
Why didn't that make your list?。
Why aren't we talking about that?。
I'd love to remind you that we did,。
we spent an entire night on that one issue alone。
just a few weeks ago, and it is an issue,。
make no mistake about it.。
And I do believe that black lives,。
absolutely, they do matter,。
and that's why I'm talking about this,。
because I wanna show you something.。
Did you know that over 15 million African Americans。
have died by abortion, which is 43 times more。
than violent crimes since 1973?。
You see violent crimes, that's the second bar,。
abortion, that's the last one, 15.5 million.。
If you believe that black lives matter like I do,。
you better believe this issue matters,。
because let me tell you something,。
the most dangerous place in America。
for an African American is inside their mother's womb.。
And that's the truth, it's statistically a fact.。
And because I believe your lives matter,。
I'm begging you to understand that this matters.。
That was first said by a black pastor, by the way.。
And my point is this, government unions。
between same-sex couples do not make for a better land.。
Moms having a choice to end the life of their babies。
do not make for a better land.。
And so I know that if you're here。
and you participated in these things,。
it feels so unloving to address it in this way.。
And I want you to know it's uncomfortable for me too.。
I stand up here, I'm scared.。
And sometimes when I'm weak in my flesh,。
I'm like, what, they're gonna hate me.。
Most of 'em will disagree with me.。
I want you to know, I think it's kept us quiet too long.。
Being afraid to offend others.。
The Proverbs say, "Faithful are the wounds of a friend."。
We've gotta be able to talk about this.。
We've gotta be able to address this issue.。
If you're here and you're attracted to the same sex,。
I'm not trying to change your attraction, man, I'm not.。
We do not do reparative therapy here.。
We do not practice it.。
I'm trying to change what you do with your attraction.。
What does Jesus mean when he calls you to die to yourself?。
Why does he say in Matthew chapter 19。
that you have an incredible gift to be used for the kingdom?。
I believe that you do.。
You are more than your sexual orientation.。
In fact, it's dehumanizing that you want to be identified。
by your sexual orientation.。
And so with both of these issues,。
you're gonna hear this, what people should be able to do,。
whatever they want to do with their body.。
God disagrees.。
In 1 Corinthians 6, 19 and 20, he says,。
friends, do you not know that your body is the temple。
of the Holy Spirit who is in you,。
who have you received from God?。
He says, "You are not your own, you were bought at a price."。
See, God knows what it's like to lose a child.。
He lost his son on a cross for you, for me, for our sin.。
Do you not know that your body was purchased。
by the blood of Jesus Christ?。
You are not your own, you were bought at a price.。
Therefore, honor God with your body because it's his temple.。
This past week, our house was vandalized.。
Specifically, someone had spray painted graffiti。
on our home.。
As you hear that, you may think,。
I have the right to be upset about that.。
Why?。
Because it's my house.。
When my children were inside, the place where we live,。
it's our home.。
And someone came onto our property。
and they destroyed a part of our property.。
And it's okay.。
Got a great sermon illustration out of it.。
But God is saying, your body is his temple.。
Do not vandalize his temple.。
It belongs to him.。
It was purchased by him.。
I know that some of us wanna give people。
the freedom to hurt themselves.。
I'm telling you, I don't think that's loving.。
So what do we do?。
My third and final point this evening。
is we must return to God, his word,。
his desires, and his people.。
See, what's happened is we've made following our heart,。
our God, instead of following God's heart.。
I'm telling you this evening, don't follow a heart。
that's not chasing after the heart of God.。
Do not follow a heart that's not chasing。
after the heart of God.。
Second Chronicles 7, 14, speaking of the temple,。
this is before that our bodies became the temple of God.。
Before the Holy Spirit resided in us,。
Solomon built a temple and dedicated it to the Lord.。
And he said this, "If my people who are called by my name。
"will humble themselves and pray and seek my face。
"and turn from their wicked ways,。
"then I will hear from them and I will forgive their sin。
"and will heal their land."。
Can we heal their land?。
Can we read that together?。
Can we read that together this evening?。
Yes, good, okay, me and my friend,。
we're gonna read this together, ready?。
(congregation laughing)。
"If my people who are called by my name。
"will humble themselves and pray and seek my face。
"and turn from their wicked ways,。
"then I will hear from heaven and I will forgive their sin。
"and will heal their land."。
Amen.。
We have to return to God.。
I made a mess of my thermostat.。
I made a mess of my air condition.。
I made a mess of the situation.。
I was in a hot mess.。
I woke up the next morning, I called an expert.。
I begged and pleaded, "Can you please come over today?"。
He came over, he knew exactly what to do.。
He knew exactly what had happened.。
He knew I had shorted out my AC.。
He went in there, he repaired it,。
he swapped out the thermostat, he put the nest on.。
He put the nest on, all within minutes,。
the situation was resolved.。
Your sin and the sin of our country is no problem for God.。
He can resolve it in a moment.。
He can touch Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump right now。
and save them both.。
He can make them the most radical Christians。
you've ever thought of.。
He's that big, he can do that.。
He can do incredible things, but are we praying for that?。
Have we spent hours on our knees begging him for that?。
Have we pleaded with him more than we've posted on Facebook。
or shared our opinions or shot over a YouTube video?。
Have we begged God?。
Have we taken off of work。
and spent an entire day on our face?。
Lord, please, please, please save our country.。
God, help us, we need your help.。
Our problem is not a problem for God,。
the creator of the heavens and the earth.。
He can effortlessly remedy this,。
but we need to start by turning to him.。
I'm just gonna give you some application now.。
One, confess your sins personally.。
Sex outside of marriage of any kind,。
any abortion that you've participated in,。
confess it, repent, turn from it, don't hide it,。
don't feel like you gotta take it to your grave, you don't.。
God loves you, he's crazy about you, he delights.。
The scripture says he delights in forgiving you.。
He delights in it.。
He finds joy when you come to him with your sin。
to forgive you.。
Spend extended time in prayer.。
I think you should seriously, prayerfully consider。
taking a vacation day between now and November 8th。
and going somewhere and praying the entire day,。
pleading with God.。
Your hope is not in a vote,。
but your vote should reflect who your hope is in.。
Your hope is not in a vote,。
but your vote should reflect who your hope is in.。
And so to cast a vote, I would not do so。
without lots and lots of prayer.。
If abortion or same-sex attraction is a part of your journey,。
please not only receive grace and forgiveness,。
but tell your story.。
It's a powerful tool in the hands of God.。
I've seen him do incredible work.。
I've had a front row seat here for the past 10 years。
watching him do incredible work。
through people who will tell their story.。
And some of you, and I know this is no small ask,。
but I've gotta ask some of you to do something。
very difficult and very important.。
I need some of you to move to Washington, D.C.。
I need some of you to run for politics.。
I need some of you to learn to navigate Washington, D.C.,。
to begin to study it.。
I know that not all of you can, but if you can, you should.。
Some of you are here, you're 27 years old,。
and eight years from now,。
I would love to personally vote for you。
for the President of the United States of America.。
And so you need to learn and you need to study.。
And some of you, right now, the Lord may be calling you。
to something like this, that you would go。
and spend your entire life。
to fighting these battles that matter to God.。
And I don't just mean the two that we discussed tonight.。
That you would learn the ins and the outs,。
that you would redeem a biblical worldview in our land.。
We need to learn to winsomely engage on this topic.。
And so when we meet with someone who disagrees,。
they should know three things.。
They should know, first, that we love them.。
Secondly, they should know that we disagree and why.。
And then thirdly, they should know the hope。
that the gospel of Jesus Christ offers.。
If they do not know these three things,。
if it's not clearly apparent in our dialogue。
or discussion with them, then we failed.。
If you're a follower of Christ,。
you need to know what God's word says.。
This is a game of truth, and I'll be honest,。
I've taught some of this before。
in a much more pastoral way, less political way.。
You can go find those messages online.。
But the truth is more and more difficult to find.。
But it's always found here.。
It's always found right here.。
And so make sure you belong to a church。
that teaches the whole truth,。
and a community that will help you follow God's heart。
as opposed to your own.。
God working through you is the solution.。
So get ready, friends.。
We, you and me, all of us,。
God and His sovereignty had you here tonight.。
We have work to do.。
Could you imagine a land?。
Or could you imagine that in our lifetime。
that we would see the last baby killed?。
That it would never happen again。
because of God working through your life?。
Could you imagine in our lifetime。
if we've seen the LGBTQ community infiltrate the church。
in ways that are positive,。
that they would stand up and tell their story。
and talk about how they are resisting。
the natural urges of their flesh。
to hold out for something that is better,。
something that is more godly, an eternal reward,。
and not doing so out of anger,。
and not doing so feeling like they got ripped off,。
but doing so believing that God。
has something better for them?。
Can you imagine this land?。
You have an opportunity.。
In summary, understand God's clear instruction.。
Understand the consequences。
of not observing God's clear instruction.。
And return to God His word, His desires, and His people.。
Behind me is the sun over the horizon.。
When the Constitution was signed。
by all the delegates in 1787,。
Ben Franklin sat there.。
Some of them came in reluctantly.。
And Mr. Franklin was in his 80s.。
And as the document was signed,。
he confessed that he had spent many days daydreaming,。
looking at the back of Washington's chair,。
'cause on the back of Washington's chair was a painting.。
It was a sun over a horizon.。
And Mr. Franklin had wondered,。
is that sun rising or is that sun setting?。
And as the Constitution was signed,。
he said that today, over the land of America,。
I believe it is rising.。
I celebrate with you that it is rising.。
Friends, today, tonight, this evening,。
I stand before you and tell you I believe it is setting.。
I believe that we may be the generation。
that loses our country to the hands of the enemy.。
And I beg you to care,。
to stop following feelings and emotions in your heart。
and care enough what God's word says。
and speak it boldly and winsomely。
and learn your message and tell your story。
and engage everyone you can。
and beg and plead for a revival.。
Are you a follower of Christ?。
Then follow Christ with everything.。
Follow Jesus with your all.。
Live a life that matters。
and save our land so that the sun would rise again.。
I'm gonna pray that you would.。
Father, as we move to singing a song,。
worshiping you,。
God, the creator of the heavens and the earth,。
Father, I beg you to help us,。
to save us,。
to redirect a stir in our hearts,。
a vision so much bigger than us,。
one that we can't lose sight of.。
Father, if I've said anything,。
Holy Spirit, powerful God,。
if I've said anything that is inconsistent with your desire,。
I pray that it would be forgotten even now。
before anyone gets up from their chair,。
anyone who's listening, that it would be forgotten.。
But God, anything that I said。
that is completely consistent with your character。
and your will and your desires revealed to us。
through your scriptures and your Holy Spirit,。
allow it to stir in our hearts and our minds。
until we are moved to action.。
Father, help us to defend those。
who cannot defend themselves.。
Father, help us to make what has been said。
to be about love actually about love.。
Father, help us to engage the lost,。
heal and strengthen your church,。
and use us, God.。
May millennials be the most powerful force,。
the most powerful demographic of people。
this world has ever seen.。
In the name of Jesus.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
