[beep]。
[beep]。
You know how intentional I am.。
Intentional's your middle name.。
I just wanted to... I don't know what I'm going to ask you here.。
[laughter]。
Pull that blanket back. It's getting chilly in here.。
It's getting a little cold.。
I think I'm going to sit closer to him and check out the Irish Springs.。
Like his deodorant?。
[laughter]。
Ah!。
[laughter]。
That was a great one.。
That was a good trip.。
[beep]。
[gasp]。
I'm Cody.。
Oh, Sylvia. Nice to meet you.。
I don't know what we're doing now.。
[laughter]。
If you scoot closer to the camera...。
[beep]。
[beep]。
[laughter]。
Awkward touch.。
[beep]。
Hi there.。
[beep]。
Hey there.。
[beep]。
Going to work out?。
[beep]。
My name is DeSantana.。
[beep]。
I just can't help it.。
[beep]。
Estoy aqui. I'm bilingual.。
[beep]。
I'm looking for a Proverbs 31 woman.。
[beep]。
Wait.。
[beep]。
For a Proverbs 31 woman.。
[beep]。
Goodbye my love!。
[beep]。
[beep]。
[beep]。
[beep]。
[beep]。
[beep]。
Shabam!。
[laughter]。
That was exciting.。
Oh my gosh.。
I love it.。
Welcome.。
My name is David.。
We're so glad that you're here.。
We've been going through this dating series called Save the Date.。
And as you know if you were here last week, we extended the opportunity to allow you to。
get involved by sending in questions that we wanted to answer tonight.。
So over the past really seven days, we've had tons of questions that have come in.。
So tonight, I'm going to sit down with our very own Jonathan Pakluta, who is sincerely。
the big fan favorite here.。
And we're just going to walk through a lot of those questions, as many as we can get。
through probably actually 20.。
And we'll just roll through those as we just begin a dialogue about what God's word would。
say to inform those.。
So I'm just really going to allow an interview and somewhat of a dialogue to take place as。
we go through some of these questions that were asked this past week.。
How you doing?。
I thought you were going to say the smartest person I've ever met.。
Yeah, yeah, yeah.。
I thought about that and I couldn't say it with integrity.。
Okay.。
So I decided, no, no.。
You're up there though.。
You are up there.。
And you no longer have a job.。
Well, man, I'm looking for employment.。
All right.。
So the first question, we'll just roll through as many of these as we can and we'll kick。
it off.。
I'm going to start with my favorite question.。
All right.。
It's a question that came in and I'm going to ask it just like it was asked.。
And so are you ready?。
Is David Marvin single?。
No, no, no.。
I'm very much married.。
Kid on the way.。
And it was asked.。
It was this question.。
Good.。
I'm glad it was your favorite.。
It's so memorable.。
Oh, before I start, #DatingFAQ.。
If you want to follow some of the, we'll be live tweeting during this, tweet out some。
of the stuff that comes from this.。
If you want to search later, #DatingFAQ, or you can post along with that.。
So jump into the conversation with us.。
We'll be using that the whole night and afterwards tonight.。
So the first question came in related to dating and it was, who should pay?。
Really?。
Nice.。
That's literally how it came in.。
Who should pay?。
Really?。
Some angry guy or girl, I guess out there who didn't get paid for it.。
Who should pay, JP?。
The guy should pay.。
Depending on how long they've dated, depending on what she's doing.。
Maybe she wants to plan something special for him.。
Is that sexist?。
No.。
1 Timothy 5 says that a man should provide for his family.。
If he doesn't, he's worse than a non-believer.。
He's denied the faith.。
But wait a minute, that's not his family.。
They're not married.。
Who is that?。
Well, remember why you're dating.。
You're trying to get to know him.。
You're trying to find out, hey, is he a good father, a good provider?。
Is he these things?。
And then 1 Peter 3 says that a husband should live with his wife in an understanding way.。
That he should cherish her.。
That he would treat her like something fragile.。
And so you're trying to find out, is this the way that he's wired up?。
And so for those reasons, I'd say, and there's certainly exceptions, but generally speaking,。
he should pay.。
So, the guy.。
The guy.。
Second question on a more serious note.。
I'm glad that was your favorite, though.。
I just love the really.。
Callie.。
Really, who should pay?。
This question came in several times in different formats.。
Can a girl ask a guy out on a date?。
Or can she nudge him and let him know that she is interested?。
Can a girl ask a guy out, take the lead, and initiate?。
So the question is, can she?。
And so, yeah, yeah, sure you can.。
Should you?。
No, I would say no.。
Well, I would say it depends on what you want.。
What you're looking for.。
Like, so if you're like, hey, I'm a really strong leader and I'm looking for a super。
passive guy that I can kind of boss around for the rest of my life.。
But yeah, I mean, ask him out and.。
And I'm sure that won't go very well for you.。
But if you're looking for a leader, an initiator, if you're looking for the definition, the。
way the Bible defines masculinity is someone who brings order and initiates.。
And so if you're looking for that person, then I wouldn't start the relationship on。
that foot.。
I think Genesis revelation, the scripture teaches that men and women are equal in rank,。
but play different roles.。
And we have to be okay with that.。
That's God's order.。
And so read first Corinthians 11, Ephesians five, first Peter three, Colossians three.。
All of these kind of paint this picture, even Genesis two and three, paint this picture。
that, hey, this is the role that God wants the man and the woman to play.。
And so I would just say, treasures don't do the hunting.。
Women, you are valuable to God.。
You are a treasure to God.。
And so treasures don't look for someone to find them.。
A treasure's wait to be found.。
And so.。
That's good.。
Is it wrong?。
It's another one came in.。
Is it wrong to pray for God to bring me a spouse?。
No, no.。
Jesus says in Matthew six to ask, to go to God.。
It says in Philippians four to present your request to God.。
And so if that's the desires of your heart, you go to God and you say, Hey, this is what。
I want.。
You can even be specific.。
God, I hope he's this tall.。
I hope he's this smart.。
I hope he runs this fast.。
I hope he makes this much money.。
Now wait, wait.。
And God, while I'm asking you these things, would you conform my heart to your desires?。
Cause, cause these are the things that I want.。
They may not be the things that you want.。
And so while I present my request to you, will you make my requests your requests?。
And so as you're asking God for a spouse, make sure you don't overlook the wonderful。
people that he has in your life that would make an incredible spouse while you're sitting。
there and you're praying and you're begging him, would you please bring me someone?。
And he's like, Hey, wake up.。
They're all around you.。
So sure.。
Just while you're asking, make sure you're looking.。
Love it.。
Uh, here's a little bit more serious one too.。
Is it okay to date someone who has been divorced?。
Yeah, certainly.。
It's okay to date someone.。
Here's what I would say.。
I would answer it like this.。
It's okay to date anyone who is free to date.。
And so now the question is, well, how do I know if they're free to date?。
And so, um, there's two simple ways we could spend the entire night.。
In fact, you taught on this, uh, um, when to break up, when not to battle the sexes,。
an amazing message.。
David taught it.。
It's an incredible resource.。
I point people to all the time.。
And so it's powerful.。
Yeah, it's powerful.。
And, and so, um, okay, so how do I know if they're free to remarry?。
That's really the question.。
Are they free to remarry?。
And so here, here's the answer.。
And some of you aren't going to like this.。
And so as I say this, as you leave here, just wrestle with these scriptures I'm about to put in front of you.。
If their ex spouse is dead or remarried, then they're not available to remarry.。
Now that their ex spouse is, is, uh, still alive and single, then they could pursue reconciliation.。
And there's a chance that that would be God's best.。
Well, wait a minute.。
What if their ex spouse is not a believer?。
You're telling me God can't save them?。
What if their ex spouse is a Satan worshiper?。
You telling me God can't change that?。
I don't know the narrative that God wants to write.。
And so to read on this in Matthew 19, I think it's verse six.。
Jesus says, what man has brought, uh, what God has brought together, let man not separate.。
So we have grown up in a culture where divorce is normative.。
Divorce was not normative when God, the author of marriage brought two people together.。
What if God, what if they weren't married in the church?。
It doesn't matter.。
Like when they got married, most likely they promised to each other, I'm going to be married to you until death do us part.。
And people say all the time, well, but they, my spouse really changed.。
I didn't know them.。
Okay.。
But you went into a covenant relationship before God with them.。
And so that was a path you chose and we want to help you.。
And maybe you should separate, you know, uh, maybe there's crazy situations going on.。
Maybe there's abuse present.。
You go to the church for help.。
We'd love to help you walk in and through that.。
But we have seen God doing incredible work in those marriages.。
And so if they are free to remarry, absolutely.。
God's the God of second chances.。
I mean, he's sure, um, you can date assuming that, you know, they're running hard after God.。
They haven't committed the unforgivable sin by any stretch of the imagination.。
That's the short answer.。
Okay.。
Um, that, that's going to stir up a lot of questions for some of you.。
Check out that resource and then reach out.。
We'd love to talk with you.。
Uh, in that same pool of thinking, is it okay to date someone who's not a Christian?。
Is it okay?。
Yes.。
As long as you're not a Christian.。
Um, so second Corinthians, let's close in prayer.。
Yeah.。
Second Corinthians six 14 says, do not be unequally yoked to unbelievers.。
Uh, what does, what does light and darkness have in common?。
What does wickedness and righteousness have in common?。
You say, wait a minute, they're not wicked.。
They're, they're just not a Christian.。
Well, you know, the scriptures say they're an object of wrath at that point.。
He said, well, what if I, if I break up with them, they're going to be turned off to God.。
Let me tell you something.。
God's a huge guy.。
Okay.。
He can handle your mistakes.。
In fact, he's really in the business of handling your mistakes.。
And so he can handle whatever fallout is going to happen as you walk in obedience and don't define obedience by the outcome.。
Okay.。
If you start to think, well, if I break up with them, then they're going to hate God forever and ever and ever.。
Well, let's just be honest.。
They already don't love God.。
Okay.。
And if God wants to save them, he will.。
And so you break up and you pray like crazy for them that, that they would come around.。
But, um, God's people choose God's people.。
God's people date God's people.。
Love it.。
God's in the business of dealing with your mistakes.。
It was good.。
So that's what I do.。
Is that right there?。
That's right.。
Right off the top of my dome.。
I like it, man.。
All right.。
Next one is, uh, also similar.。
The same pool of thought is, uh, it okay to date someone who is Catholic or if I am dating someone who is Catholic and I'm Protestant, is that okay?。
You want these people to hate me?。
I'm just trying to give people what they want.。
I think you should take that one.。
Here's what I would say.。
You jump in.。
Um, so let's think about this.。
Are you going to go to separate churches?。
Are you, so if you, if you're a Protestant, they're Catholic, are you guys going to go to separate churches?。
Now, I came from a family that my mom was Lutheran.。
My dad was Catholic.。
They still, to this day, go to separate churches.。
And I think a lot of times that's the way we define obedience.。
We look around and we're like, well, it worked for them.。
It must be God's will.。
That's a really awful way to discern God's will.。
Um, and so I would say, does, do they believe that we are saved by grace through faith alone?。
And if you said, well, yes, they absolutely believe that we are saved by grace through faith alone.。
Then I would say, well, then why are they Catholic?。
Because to the best of my knowledge, that, that flies in the face of, uh, the Catholic catechism or the Catholic doctrine.。
And you say, well, how do you know?。
Well, here's how I know I was Catholic for nine years.。
I'm sorry.。
I was Catholic for 20 years.。
I was, went to Catholic school for nine years, went to Catholic seminary for two weeks.。
Uh, and, uh, and so, um, and so, yeah, I mean that just think, consider those things and, um, you know, do they believe we're saved by grace through faith alone?。
And if so, you know, they might reconsider their commitment to the Catholic church.。
I'm sure that is going to bring lots of people up to talk to me afterwards.。
And David's cell phone number is.。
That's good.。
That's a great answer.。
Um, here's a, uh, uh, one outside of that realm.。
Uh, does physical attractiveness not matter?。
Does physical, I'm not smart enough to answer the question.。
Not matter or you take the knot out and just say, does it matter?。
Is physical attraction important?。
Yeah.。
Yeah.。
Physical attraction is important to the, uh, it's good.。
Your Aggie friends wrote in some questions.。
That's good.。
Uh, he only made it in Catholic seminary two weeks.。
He's still bitter.。
Rejection letter still stings.。
It hurts.。
It hurts.。
Physical attraction.。
Here we go back on track.。
I told you we should have let somebody else do physical attraction does exactly that.。
It attracts.。
And so to the point where you see someone and you want to walk up to them and you want。
to engage with them.。
But, uh, what I said earlier in a lot of people wrote in and said, Hey, explain that.。
So I'm going to say it again.。
Let's say you're dating someone and they're a really godly person, God honoring person,。
God fearing person.。
And you say, well, I'm not just, I'm not physically attracted to them.。
Should I continue to date them?。
And I would say, no, you're not spiritually mature enough to.。
And people say, well, wait a minute.。
Wait, what are you saying there?。
I said, well, listen, I've read in the scripture, uh, first Samuel 16, where it's actually where。
he says God looks at the heart.。
Yeah.。
Yes.。
And so I'm almost positive.。
It's first Samuel 16.。
He says, Hey, God looks at the heart of a man.。
He does not look what's on the outside.。
And so you're saying, Hey, what is important to me is different than what's important to。
God.。
But as we pursue God, uh, we, we develop and grow the desires of God.。
And so what am I saying?。
Am I, am I saying you should find the ugliest, most godly person you can think of?。
No, I, I, that's not what I'm saying at all, but I am saying that you should pray to be。
attracted to what God's attracted to.。
And he will do that.。
And a lot of times you've got to understand what has, uh, what has given you the ideas。
that you're attracted to?。
Like what, what has given you the desires of your heart?。
What is informed the desires of your heart rather.。
And if you're looking at pornography or if that's a part of your past sin struggles,。
if you're watching, you know, soap operas or the like, um, you know, depending on what。
magazines you subscribe to, all of those are informing your heart and telling it what to。
look to.。
And so that may be why you're not attracted to what God is attracted to.。
You may have bought into some lies in Dallas or Fort Worth or wherever it is you live.。
So, um, yeah.。
And last thing, beauty is a depreciating asset.。
And so Proverbs 31 30 says charm is deceitful and beauty is what fleeting.。
And so is beauty a bad thing?。
No, man, I pray my girls are beautiful.。
I pray they are beautiful.。
Okay.。
But I just pray that one, they don't know they're beautiful.。
And two guys don't think they're beautiful.。
No, um, uh, beauty is a good thing.。
It's just a depreciating asset.。
And so we're all getting uglier and you're like, Oh no, that's not, Oh my goodness.。
I can't believe he said that.。
Here's the deal, man.。
None of you are attracted to 80 year olds.。
All right.。
And you're all going to look, you're all going to look in the mirror one day, God willing,。
and every gravity is going to have taken its toll and everything's going to be wrinkly。
and, and you know, you're gonna have less teeth and less hair.。
And, uh, and so I'm just saying you're getting uglier.。
Preach.。
I know.。
Hashtag preach.。
Oh man.。
I love it.。
You can only do so much Botox.。
Get scared face stuck in surprise everywhere you go.。
Um, okay.。
This one, uh, is going to only be more relevant and more important.。
Is it okay to use apps like Tinder?。
Is it okay to use apps like Tinder?。
I don't know.。
I don't know.。
The Bible doesn't talk about dating apps.。
Ruth and Boaz.。
Tinder, swipe right.。
I'm scared to speak.。
Um, I haven't heard a lot of good things about Tinder, honestly, also known as the hookup。
app.。
And so, um, is it okay to use online dating or the like or technology?。
Here's what I would say.。
Don't date strangers.。
And so the scripture really speaks to this idea, even in song of Solomon, where it says。
their friends praise their love more than wine.。
It's that the whole community is looking on what they have.。
And in the biblical example is arranged marriages.。
And so it's people coming together and say, man, you two really, really make sense.。
Okay.。
It's not like technology saying, Hey, you two are compatible.。
There's no such thing as compatibility in relationships.。
Sinners aren't compatible with centers.。
Um, but, uh, and so here's the, what's the wisdom principle in this don't date strangers.。
Friends don't let friends date strangers.。
And so how are you going to know somebody just through an app?。
I mean, and also profiles lie.。
I mean, people did not present the truth on the profile.。
So I don't care if he says I graduated from seminary and I love Jesus with all my heart.。
And I, you know, care for the widows and the orphans.。
I mean, he could be a con and I would just look around you guys.。
Look, look where you're at.。
Look around you.。
I mean, I'm looking at, I'm seeing men and women and just because they're at the porch。
doesn't mean they know God.。
Okay.。
Not at all.。
I mean, they may be a predator of sorts, a wolf if you will, but, but here's the deal.。
There's, you don't need to go on an app.。
I mean, look around you.。
And so is it, whether it's Tinder or something else, I would just be really, really wise.。
And I wouldn't do it in isolation.。
And if you're addicted to it, if you can't stop it, clearly that's a bad thing.。
But the scripture says everything is lawful.。
Not everything is beneficial.。
This falls into one of those categories for me that I don't think is beneficial.。
And frankly, I don't think is necessary.。
It's good.。
Am I prepared to say it's absolutely wrong?。
No.。
And there may be a difference between Tinder and the other apps.。
Sure.。
You can't group them all together.。
Can you date, this came in a couple of times.。
Can you date or go on dates with several people at once?。
Like if you're in a polygamous cult?。
Like Johnny asked Sally out on Monday.。
Sally goes on a date.。
Sally gets asked out by Steve on Wednesday.。
And, um, and can't she go on a date with Steve and Johnny?。
At the same time?。
No, not at the same night.。
Not like the bachelor.。
Like different nights.。
Different nights.。
Different people.。
What would you say?。
I would say, uh, honesty is your best friend in any relationship context.。
And so as honest as you can be with anybody.。
So if Johnny asks you out and then two days later and he says, Hey, I'd love to take you on a second date.。
And you would like to go on that second date.。
Say, I'd love to go on that second date.。
And then if two days later, Steve asks you out, I would say, tell him, Hey, Steve,。
I'd love to go out.。
I'm going on a second date with Johnny.。
Here's the entirety of our relationship right now.。
Just so you know, that's a really complicated answer.。
I would just be upfront and honest about it.。
I think honesty is going to be your friend in all scenarios.。
Romans 12, nine says, love must be sincere.。
And so here's what I would tell you.。
If you have to hide anything, if you feel like you're sneaking around at all, if you can't look someone in the eyes and say, I was on a date with, was it Johnny or Steve or someone?。
I was on a date last night with someone else and Hey, I may be going on a date with someone else tomorrow.。
If you can't just put it, if it's not okay, that it's on the front page of the paper, then in any scenario for the rest of your life, you probably shouldn't do it.。
And so first John one talks about walking in the light of Ephesians, talk about walking in the light.。
There's an element to Christianity that we're just fully transparent.。
Our lives are open books.。
There's nothing.。
I'm not, there's nothing I'm afraid of that you're going to find out about me.。
And that should really mark your dating life.。
There's, there's nothing that I need to hide from you.。
I don't need to brain dump everything on you the first night either, but there's nothing that I need to need to hide from you.。
And so Romans 12, nine, love must be sincere.。
It's a good word.。
And I think that's huge because honesty is like contagious.。
Honest people tend to attract honest people.。
And so dishonest people, deceitful people, or people that tend to hide things tend to attract people that tend to hide things.。
Yeah, that's good.。
Jacob and Laban.。
Yeah.。
Okay.。
So number 10.。
What if I'm dating someone and we, and this came in four or five times.。
What if I'm dating someone and we have had sex, but are now pursuing purity and a Godly relationship together?。
Are we doomed because of our sin?。
No.。
Proverbs 10 verse 12 says love covers a multitude of wrongs.。
Romans 8, one says there's now no condemnation for those who are in Christ.。
Second Corinthians 5, 17 I think, says that the Lord is no longer counting his sins against you.。
And so no, God, as I said earlier, God's a God of second chances.。
But here's the deal.。
Now you may need to put new boundaries in place because it's very difficult to go backwards.。
And so God can absolutely heal you.。
He can absolutely restore you, but you need to be honest.。
And you need, the community needs to be involved.。
Others need to be looking in on that relationship.。
And if that's you and you hear this and you're stirred with hope right now, like hear me say this, it's time to stop right now to do whatever is necessary to cease that physical element of your relationship to stop like right now.。
And so that may mean that you're not alone together anymore until you're married.。
That's good.。
In that same category as it relates to physical boundaries, how far is too far?。
That's the question.。
The question on every Q&A of all time.。
Yeah.。
How far is too far?。
A couple of things.。
I'm just going to give you some wisdom principles on this.。
If I want you to consider for a second how far you want to go before you're married in a relationship.。
So what's the end result?。
Like what do you hope?。
Hey, we don't go.。
I hope we don't go past this.。
And so some of you would say, well, I'm okay with making out.。
And so let's just say hypothetical.。
Hypothetically speaking, that's okay.。
Well, it's okay.。
You know, well, if that's the end goal before you're married, I certainly wouldn't start there.。
Like I wouldn't start there on third date that because you're starting at the finish line.。
And so consider that.。
Hey, what all do I want to do before I'm married?。
What do I think is okay?。
And and then like pace yourself, if you will.。
And so we know at the altar that there's this beautiful moment where I say to everyone there.。
And the reason it's a part of the ceremony, I don't know if you ever thought about this.。
The reason this is a part of the ceremony, because for so long tradition would have it.。
That's the first time that couple would kiss and everyone would see it.。
And so it's like, hey, it's a big deal.。
Everybody look on.。
Hey, ready?。
You ready?。
You may kiss your bride.。
Well, now it's like, well, yeah, you can kiss him again.。
I mean, you were kissing him last night.。
Y'all did more than that.。
You might, you know, and so it's a much less of a big deal now, but you've got to consider。
where that tradition comes from.。
And so here's what I would tell you.。
Here's the really practical answer.。
If your body is preparing itself for sex, you've gone too far.。
Do I need to explain myself further?。
Like, do I need to get graphic?。
You sure?。
I think I think they got it.。
If your body, men, men, if your body is preparing itself for sex, ladies, if your body is preparing。
itself for sex, you've gone too far.。
Well, wait a minute, JP, dude, that means I can't even be in the same room with her.。
Man, you don't understand how hot she is.。
Listen, it might mean you can't be in the same room alone.。
You know, you're probably not going to have sex at Starbucks, you know, and so it may,。
it may mean tweet that.。
Yeah, it may mean, um, it may mean that you guys can't be alone together.。
I don't know.。
And so that's not crazy.。
I mean, just like as quickly and effectively as you can, efficiently as you can get married。
and have all the sex you want.。
Um, last thing I would say, I've said this before is, is like when somebody says, Hey,。
how close to the edge of the building can I get?。
I just say, Hey, do you want to jump off?。
Because if you want to jump off, I wouldn't even get on the elevator.。
I wouldn't even go up to the roof.。
If you want to jump off the building, stay on the ground.。
And if we're honest, when it comes to sex and intimacy, we want to jump off.。
Our body is naturally wired to go all the way.。
That's why it's preparing itself for sex so that you can have sex.。
And if you can't have sex, it's unloving to go there.。
The scripture says in Salaam Salomon, do not awaken love before it's time.。
How much better off would we be if we waited, you know, and went with God's design on this deal?。
It's really good.。
Can I, this is another one came in, can I travel with my boyfriend and stay in a hotel if we're committed to purity and both of our community groups hold us to that?。
Here's what I would do.。
I would start by going to your community groups.。
And I would say, hey guys, I need to let you know I think you've sinned against me.。
Because you have not held me accountable to what is appropriate.。
And when you said that we can travel together and you were just going to check in with us, that was what you guys should have done is pulled your resources together so that I could get my own hotel room.。
What you should have done is chipped in on this little trip, you know.。
And here's what I would say, if the only option is staying together, don't go.。
It's his brother's wedding, who cares?。
You don't go to his brother's wedding if that's what it means to honor God.。
You say, well wait a minute, I thought what was sinful is sex.。
I would say, hey, you were not meant to stay in the same hotel room with the opposite sex and not have sex.。
You should have sex.。
You were wired to.。
And so you're training your body, hey, I'm teaching you, whenever I'm alone with this man or whenever I'm alone with this woman, don't have sex, don't have sex, don't have sex.。
You're putting pathways in your brain.。
Hey, whenever we're alone together in a hotel room, I want you to know that you can't have sex.。
You know what, I just read a statistic the other day that said 30 to 40% of married couples sleep in separate beds.。
Did you hear that?。
30 to 40% of married couples today sleep in separate beds.。
People who sleep in separate beds in hotel rooms when they're single sleep in separate beds when they're married.。
And so I would just, man, I would say that's not, that's not God's best practice for you, man.。
You were meant, why play with evil?。
The scripture says, 1 Corinthians 6, 18 through 20 says, flee sexual immorality.。
All other sins a man commits are outside his body, but whoever sins sexually sins in a very special and unique way.。
It says, do you not know that your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit who's in you, whom you've received from God?。
You are not your own.。
You've been purchased.。
You've been bought at a price.。
Therefore, honor God with your bodies.。
And so when you say, hey, can we, you know, let's just both go have these on this motel six, you know, for your brother's wedding.。
You know, that does not sound like running from as fast as you can sexual immorality.。
That sounds like, hey, let's poke sexual immorality or, or, you know, see how close we can get.。
And so it, you know, that, that feels, that feels like the how far is too far.。
That's too far.。
And if you're asking how far is too far, you've gone too far.。
I would say in nine years of vocational ministry, the person who asked how far is too far has gone too far.。
And they're asking the wrong question.。
I know I went back one, but I had more to say on that.。
Hey man, you, you be you, you be you.。
How can you, this is another one that came in multiple times.。
How can you guard your hearts, guard your heart?。
You have multiple hearts.。
How can you guard your heart or the person's heart that you're dating?。
How can you guard your heart or the person's heart?。
Whose heart are we guarding?。
Just like, just read the question.。
Practically.。
I feel like there's some spelling errors.。
Okay.。
How can you guard your heart practically or the person who you were dating's heart?。
The heart's always going somewhere.。
Okay, man.。
We are sensitive, fragile, emotional beings.。
And so be careful what you say, be careful what you do.。
That proverb in Proverbs 4.23, guard your heart for it is the wellspring of life.。
Everything you do flows from it, it says.。
And then it says, be careful where you let your eyes go.。
Be careful how you talk.。
Do not let perversity come out of your mouth.。
And so that proverb is just a great description of how to guard a heart.。
And what I would say is, guys, girls are wanderers.。
They wander a lot.。
So don't let them wander.。
That's that whole, the genius behind the DTR, the define the relationship.。
You need to anticipate what her questions are and answer them.。
Say, hey, this is what I'm doing.。
Don't be intense, you know, but be intentional.。
Say, hey, this is what we're doing here.。
This is what I'm thinking.。
This is where I see this going.。
Hey, I'm really glad we're here together.。
This is what's going on in my mind.。
As much as you can, unveil your thoughts to her so she doesn't leave there and go,。
are we just friends?。
What is this?。
Is this a friend-ation ship?。
What's the deal here?。
How, you know, or is he going to propose tomorrow?。
You know, what's that?。
That's those are things girls should never ask us.。
Are we just friends or is he going to propose?。
That's a bad thing.。
And so I think being honest, that whole Romans 12, 9, your love must be sincere.。
And then I would just say something we've said in the past that I really like is,。
and this is what I think Proverbs 4, 23 is saying.。
Don't follow your heart, but inform your heart.。
Tell it where to go.。
And so, ladies, don't let your heart wander 10 years down the road.。
I mean, if you're on your first date, don't be naming children.。
Okay, it's not, that's not in good practice.。
Don't let it just, you know, get, don't let it progress further than what is reality.。
What's in front of you right now.。
It's really good.。
You keep saying that.。
That one was okay.。
Is it wrong to pray together?。
This one came in surprisingly several times.。
Is it wrong to pray together before getting married?。
What would you say?。
Better than sex.。
I would say, I would say.。
You disagree.。
I didn't even step into that ring.。
I would say, I mean, it depends on what you're talking about.。
If you're talking about at a meal, here's like why, where that comes from.。
So if you went to A&M or you went to Texas or you went to some of the bigger schools that have what's called Bucks,。
there's an organization there and different organizations.。
And you may have heard that if you grew up in the church where it's like, hey,。
you shouldn't pray together before you get married.。
The reason behind that is not necessarily a verse that informs it,。
but it's just such an intimate act.。
Anytime you move into the realm of spirituality,。
there's a really intimate thing that involves your soul at a deep level.。
So that's why they say, practically speaking, to guard your heart,。
you should be leery of stepping into that, of praying consistently and having like private prayer time,。
just the two of you in a closet together praying.。
And so that's the reasoning behind there.。
So it depends on what you're asking.。
If you're praying before a meal, I'd say, no, that's fine.。
But if you're praying at a more, they're your prayer partner, that may be unwise.。
So that's how I'd answer.。
Yeah. Bless this food. Probably okay.。
Lord, please help me not rip off his clothes because he's so hot right now.。
You know, probably not okay.。
[Laughter]。
I agree.。
You got to bring specifics to it, man.。
People will have questions.。
Dude, that was great, man.。
I'm trying so hard to stay focused right now and not step into that ring.。
Okay. When to say those three little words, I love you.。
Want to break up. Oh.。
[Laughter]。
This is why we only made it two weeks in that Catholic seminary.。
Four little words to want to break up.。
Your words hurt me.。
When to say I love you.。
I would be slow to say it and quick to prove it.。
And what I mean by prove it, I'm not talking flowers and doors.。
I'm talking, you know, you read Ephesians 5.。
Husbands lay your lives down for your wives as Christ did the church.。
So what does it look like to prove that you love?。
It looks like holding boundaries to purity.。
It looks like sacrificing your own flesh, your own selfish desires for the good of a relationship and to honor God.。
And so as you're proving that, as you prove that constantly, you know, and you're moving towards the altar, I think it's a great time to say it.。
We grew up in a culture where that was just, you know, you're in the sixth grade.。
You're talking to some girl that you're never going to have a chance of marrying.。
You're like, hey, girl, I love you.。
You know, you're singing boys to men song to her.。
And that's just me.。
Anyways. And so, you know, that's just not in good form.。
It's not sincere. It's not Romans 12.9, if you will.。
And so, yeah, I would just say, hey, prove it before you say it.。
Show it before you say it.。
You can be slow to say it.。
I was going to say something else there and I forgot.。
You want me to have him talk amongst themselves for a second?。
How do I know this one came in multiple times to how do I know if they are the one?。
How do I know if they are the one?。
Usually that knowledge comes right at about this time.。
Someone like me is standing with you saying, I now pronounce you husband and wife.。
And at that point, they're the one.。
And so let me say it like this.。
I'm married. I'm married.。
I married Monica. I've said this before. It always upsets people.。
So my wife, is there anyone else out there for her?。
I mean, could she be happily married to someone else?。
Is there someone even more right for her than me out there?。
And the answer is absolutely yes.。
My wife is 5'3". I'm 6'7".。
I mean, God just has a sense of humor.。
I like guns and motorcycles.。
I mean, there's a dude out there that would be home right now.。
I'm here with you guys.。
There's a guy there that would be home at 5.30 on Tuesdays.。
And so there's lots of guys out there that would be great for her.。
Now, I'm the one for her because we went to the altar together.。
There's not one for you.。
There's not this magic random when you were born somewhere around the same year some guy was born.。
And you two are star-crossed lovers wandering somewhere around the world.。
And you're aimlessly hoping that you find each other and Tinder may be the answer.。
That's not the case.。
Okay, that's crazy.。
That's crazy. There's lots of ones for you.。
Lots of ones.。
I mean, love God with all your heart.。
Find someone who loves God with all their hearts.。
That you enjoy being around.。
That's going to be a good spouse, a good parent.。
And spend the rest of your life with them.。
And it's going to be hard.。
And work it out.。
And they're going to change.。
And you're going to change.。
And you're going to mature.。
And they're going to mature.。
And things are going to happen.。
And life circumstances are going to happen.。
You may miscarry.。
He may lose his job.。
You may go through depression.。
He may get cancer.。
Okay, you don't think about those things when you're 25 years old and single.。
All you're thinking about is, "Well, where's the one out there?"。
Man, marriage is so much more practical than you ever hope to admit.。
You know where you've taken marriage advice from?。
I'm angry now.。
You made me angry.。
I can see that.。
We all see that.。
We've got our marriage advice from Hollywood.。
Hollywood has the worst divorce rate ever.。
They're awful at marriage.。
The people who are telling you how to have a marriage suck at marriage.。
They're not good at it.。
And they're saying, "Hey, listen.。
This is how you need to be compatible.。
You need to have this."。
And then you look at their divorce rate, and it's through the roof.。
They're the worst people in marriage giving us marriage advice.。
Take marriage advice from the Scriptures.。
Okay, from the Bible.。
And so much of what we learn, we have to unlearn.。
And I know you're hearing some radical things right now.。
Just get by yourself.。
Open the Word.。
Begin to read the Scriptures that you're here to learn.。
David could answer these questions.。
Anyone here with any knowledge of the Word can answer these questions.。
This is not JP's dating advice.。
As much as I can, I'm saying, "Hey, these are things.。
These are principles that the Scripture says.。
This is where it informs that."。
And so the one for you is the one that you covenant before God with,。
that you're going to spend the rest of your life.。
Because if not, then you're going to get in that relationship,。
and you're going to say, "Man, I may have married the wrong one."。
And lo and behold, your neighbor is going to be amazing,。
and you're going to think, "Maybe he or she was the one for me.。
And maybe I made a mistake, and maybe I need to undo that mistake."。
And people do it all the time, and it's always a mistake.。
That is always a mistake.。
And so let me say this right here.。
We just wrote a blog on this.。
Every single question, to the best of my knowledge, that came in,。
we have written blogs on.。
Go to theportsdallas.com/blog.。
Use it like Google.。
There's a search box there.。
You can search these questions, and there's entire papers written on them。
for further resources.。
- Love it.。
What if I'm having doubts, but they meet all the criteria of a godly spouse?。
- Yeah, I would just say it depends on what your doubts are in.。
Are you doubting that they're hot enough for you,。
or are you doubting that they actually have a legit relationship with Jesus?。
Or do doubts mark you?。
Like, are you someone that you look backwards, and you're like,。
"You can't even choose what bread to buy,。
much less who you're going to spend the rest of your life with."。
And so it's like, if that's your problem, you need to heal from that issue.。
If you're kind of this paralysis by analysis,。
"I just overthink everything,"。
I mean, this may just be a case of cold feet.。
You know, who knows?。
But if there's legitimate doubts, if you're like,。
"Man, I don't even know if they're a Christian,。
or I'm seeing some behaviors in their life that are really questionable,"。
then you know what you need to do.。
Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 says, "Trust in the Lord with all your heart,。
and lean not on your own understandings,"。
not trusting your doubts, not trusting your understanding,。
"but in all your ways, acknowledge God."。
Look and pursue God, and he will make your path straight.。
He will direct your path. He will show you where to go.。
- Okay, so four more.。
- Come on.。
- When it comes to getting engaged,。
how long should you date before you get engaged?。
- All right, Leviticus 17 in the Hebrew says。
that two Christians should date three months, two weeks, and four days.。
No, I'm lying.。
How long should you--。
- Two days?。
- Four days.。
So why are you dating?。
You're dating to find out if they would make a godly spouse and godly parent.。
And so as soon as you know they'd make a godly spouse or godly parent, marry them.。
You're incompatible.。
You're not dating to find out if you're compatible.。
You're incompatible. You're two sinners, okay?。
You're male and female. You're completely incompatible.。
But marriage is two selfish people coming together,。
agreeing to be selfless towards one another for the rest of their lives.。
Sometimes I always have this insecurity in these messages that people are like,。
"Man, his marriage must be awful."。
I'm not speaking from my own experience.。
I'm speaking from what the Scriptures say。
and meeting with literally hundreds of people。
and meeting this right before the altar, after the altar,。
10 years into marriage, 30 years into marriage, 50 years into marriage.。
And so I just remember being on the other side of the altar。
and being really naive to these truths,。
and so I'm putting them in front of you.。
And so as soon as you can effectively know,。
now listen, if it's five years, if you've been dating for five years,。
I'm like, "What did you hope to learn?。
"You're three, you're four, you're five.。
"What were you hoping to find out?"。
And you're like, "Well, I just wasn't ready for marriage."。
That's a very American idea.。
It's like, "Oh, I need to be rich before I can,。
"I need to afford a wedding before I can get married."。
These are very Western cultural ideas.。
Just be careful not to fall into that trap.。
You need to process this with a biblical worldview, okay?。
Not a materialistic worldview, if you will.。
- And something you've said before is。
if you're enjoying dating long-term,。
you're probably doing it wrong.。
In other words, you're probably having sex--。
- Dating's awful.。
- You're probably sleeping together, yeah, it's terrible.。
- Right, I mean, dating's not, I mean, marriage is fun.。
Dating's like, I mean, it's emotional highs and lows,。
lots of tears, you know, there's joys。
that are matched by lots of frustrations。
and sleepless nights and what is he thinking?。
And so, like, get married already, man.。
- That's true.。
(audience laughing)。
Engagement is worse, I think.。
Emily Walker, you know what I'm talking about.。
- That's true.。
- Emily is engaged--。
- Emily, come up here and tell 'em.。
- Yeah, Emily, get her a microphone.。
All right, last three.。
I am a woman who doesn't--。
- No, you're not.。
(audience laughing)。
- Hey, this is how you were gonna break this news to me.。
- Oh, man, it's all coming out now.。
I am--。
(laughing)。
- Oh, wow.。
- This is from a woman who wrote this.。
She says, and I quote,。
"I am a woman who doesn't necessarily。
"want kids in my future.。
"Does it freak guys out more if women don't want kids。
"versus if women do want kids?"。
Tell us what freaks out the men, baby.。
(audience laughing)。
The women out there wanna know.。
- I wanna be, like with the divorce one and this one,。
these heavy, heavy questions,。
and I don't wanna be trite or cliche,。
but I do wanna be direct.。
And so just know that I know there's a sensitivity here.。
And so let me just start here.。
Who cares what you want?。
You tracking with me?。
Like when was this ever about what you wanted?。
And so I say that intentionally with some bite to it.。
'Cause Proverbs 127 says that children。
are a blessing from the Lord.。
And so if you don't want children,。
I'd question, like why do you want marriage?。
Why do you want companionship?。
Well, that sounds like, you know,。
the scriptures all say do nothing out of selfish ambition。
or vain conceit.。
And so, and as you're thinking about guys,。
I mean, you don't wanna run a strategy based on,。
well, what is the guy like?。
And that's what I wanna give to him.。
You wanna say, hey, what does God value?。
And how do I live that out?。
Whether I'm single the rest of my life or not.。
What does God Almighty, the creator of the heavens。
and the earth, who formed me in my mother's womb。
and has a plan for me and a purpose for me,。
what's important to him and how do I live that out?。
And I would tell you that children are important to him.。
Now, let me say this.。
What if I can't have children?。
That's a different question.。
You can always adopt, you can always disciple.。
I mean, some of the godliest couples I know,。
they never had children because they were unable to。
and yet they turned their lives out。
and made disciples out of dozens and dozens of people.。
And so you can always do that.。
You may not be able to have children biologically,。
but you can make disciples.。
I would say marriage, a key part of marriage,。
the reason God invented marriage was,。
or one of the two primary reasons I believe。
God invented marriage was for procreation.。
He says in Genesis, be fruitful and multiply,。
fill the earth and subdue it.。
He says that to Adam and Eve.。
He says it again to Noah, I think in Genesis 9.。
And so be fruitful and multiply,。
fill the earth and subdue it.。
Psalm 127, children are a blessing of the Lord.。
Children are a blessing of the Lord.。
Blessed is a man whose quiver is full of them.。
And so if you don't see children as a blessing,。
then you don't see children in the same way。
that God sees them.。
- So in essence, it's like you're asking the wrong question。
and you're saying, hey, it's not what I want。
and I wanna do what guys want,。
so tell me what guys want.。
And you're saying focus on what God wants.。
- Focus on what God wants, absolutely.。
- Inside of your life, it's good.。
- There you go.。
- That was succinct, I like that.。
- It was, it was powerful, another one.。
(audience laughing)。
I've been having feelings for a girlfriend for a while now.。
I feel like these are like confessionals.。
(audience laughing)。
I love it, I love it, people trust us.。
I've been having feelings for a girlfriend of mine。
for a while now and I'm certain。
she's starting to have feelings for me too.。
How can I approach this situation。
and tell her how I feel about her?。
(audience laughing)。
- This is a tough one.。
(audience laughing)。
I want you all to get a pen and paper, okay?。
(audience laughing)。
I'm serious, so I want you to write this down.。
I。
like。
you.。
(audience laughing)。
(audience applauding)。
And parenthetically,。
I would say,。
look her in the eyes。
and tell her I'm really interested in you.。
I'd like to spend more time with you.。
My son,。
my son, we're through, right?。
I can stand up now?。
- One more, but you're welcome to stand.。
- Okay, okay.。
(audience laughing)。
- Stretch him out, man.。
- Okay, stretch it out.。
(audience laughing)。
My son,。
we would call him Caveman 'cause he's just kinda grunt。
and moan and make these noises。
and he would just kinda throw a fit。
whenever he didn't get his way。
and we would always say, "Use your words.。
"Weston, use your words."。
And so guys, that's what I would exhort you in this.。
(audience laughing)。
Use your words, all right?。
(Weston laughing)。
Like you think in English, you know?。
You think in a language.。
And so turn your thoughts to words。
and present them as clearly as you can to a young woman.。
And so ask her out, man.。
I mean, if you are ready to date。
and she's ready to date and you're interested in her,。
like go to her and just say,。
"Man, I would love to spend more time with you intentionally.。
"I'm really interested in dating you.。
"I like you.。
"Let's go."。
- All right, lovely.。
All right.。
- One more, ladies and gentlemen.。
- One more and then I'm gonna let you close it out。
and close this out.。
What should I do while I wait for God。
to bring about the right person?。
What should I do right now in this season。
while I wait for God to bring about the right person?。
- Wait for God to bring about the right person?。
Let's pray.。
No.。
(congregation laughing)。
I would just say like,。
we had this like mantra for the porch forever,。
like you're becoming something, right?。
And so, you know, Andy Stanley says,。
be the someone that the someone you're looking for。
is looking for, all right?。
Or become the someone。
that someone you're looking for is looking for.。
And so here's what I would tell you。
is become the someone that God has planned for you to be,。
that God has intentions for you.。
Like you're, like develop.。
And so if you wanna be a good wife, right,。
then just think about, hey, what makes a good wife。
and how do I become that?。
Now ladies, let me say this, really important,。
'cause this is really important, okay?。
It's not like an if-then statement.。
It's not voodoo.。
It's not like, well, as soon as I learn to bake and clean,。
then God's gonna, you know,。
drop a husband through the roof.。
That's not what's gonna happen, okay?。
And that's not even what I'm saying, all right?。
And guys, it's not like this if-then,。
well, you know, she's magically gonna appear, okay?。
So if you're looking for someone, one, look for someone.。
You can pray, we covered a lot of these things.。
You can pray for them.。
But at the same time, like it is fine to desire marriage.。
It's not okay to need marriage.。
It's not okay.。
Your heart is an idle factory.。
And if it's grabbed something so tight。
that you're completely discontent,。
I mean, you know the answer to that question.。
What do I do if I'm waiting on someone?。
One, like stop waiting.。
You're not in a waiting room.。
You're not in a holding tank.。
Like you're an able-bodied, amazing gift。
that God created for himself.。
And so begin to unleash your gifts。
and serve him with radical abandonment,。
reckless abandonment, and love him with all your heart。
and learn his word.。
I know you feel so busy.。
I know you do, okay?。
I get it.。
I know you do, all right?。
But when you have kids that depend on you。
and someone, a roommate, that you've entered。
in a covenant relationship with,。
that you're gonna care for them。
and help them and provide for them,。
you're going to have a lot less time.。
And so as busy as you feel like right now,。
life only gets busier.。
So right now you create margin to know God。
and to love God so that you can continue。
for the rest of your life to know God and love God.。
Okay, we covered a lot of questions.。
And I liken it to this.。
I just got back early this morning。
from speaking in Waco.。
I had two speaking opportunities there.。
And if I'm totally transparent with you,。
what freaks me out the most about these opportunities,。
what concerns me the most,。
what causes me the most stress on the front end, okay,。
is not what I'm gonna say.。
It's not the scriptures I'm gonna cover.。
It's not the illustrations.。
It's actually getting to the locations.。
Like I never know where they are.。
I never know how to get there.。
I don't know how early I need to be.。
And then when I get to the property,。
I don't know if I just like show up。
and someone magically finds me。
and tells me where to go.。
And so these are the questions that I have.。
So a lot of times I'll spend the front end of the time.。
You know, I've prepared the message.。
That's there.。
I know that God's gotta speak through me.。
Like if it's me, you know, it's gonna fall flat anyways.。
And so I'm not worried about that.。
I'm just like, hey, I need to make sure I get there。
and I'm there on time and I know where it is.。
And so what happens is I get directions.。
And when I get directions, I follow them closely。
and I say, okay, I need to exit here.。
I need to turn here.。
I need to go down this road and just stop at this light。
and then it's gonna be three miles down here.。
And if I don't know where I'm going,。
I'm following these directions really closely。
and I'm looking at them.。
Now the directions don't tell me everything.。
Like sometimes there's a car driving in front of me。
really slow.。
The directions don't tell me I need to pull over and pass it.。
I've gotta use common sense.。
I've gotta use wisdom.。
Likewise, we covered a lot of dating ideas,。
a lot of dating questions.。
The scripture doesn't tell you everything.。
It doesn't say, hey, where you should go on a date。
or those sorts of things.。
It doesn't answer all of your questions,。
but it gives you a big picture framework, a map.。
And your destination we defined in this series is marriage.。
We date for marriage.。
We date so that we can find someone。
to spend the rest of our life with。
and do ministry with, serve God with,。
raise children with.。
And so that's the destination.。
And so you follow the framework。
that is outlined in the scriptures.。
And so that was the first location that I went to.。
I was really following the directions。
and then I had the second speaking engagement。
yesterday night and I didn't know how to get there.。
And so I called the guy and said,。
hey, can you just tell me how to get there?。
I know this sounds silly.。
I'm just really bad at directions.。
And he goes, hey bro, just follow me.。
And that's what I wanna tell you。
is in dating, if you're following Christ,。
see when you follow someone,。
you're no longer thinking about the play by play.。
Do I turn here?。
Do I go here?。
Do I do this?。
Do I do that?。
You're just saying, hey, at every turn,。
hey, where is he?。
Where is God?。
How do I, I wanna keep my eyes on him。
and I wanna go the direction that he's leading.。
And so I'm watching Christ constantly。
and you're asking all of those questions。
could be answered with another question.。
What would honor God the most?。
God, what would honor you the most?。
Should I stay in a hotel room with my significant other?。
God, what would honor you the most?。
How far is too far?。
God, what would honor you the most?。
Can I date someone who's divorced?。
God, what would honor you the most?。
Let me dive into the scriptures。
and seek to understand for myself.。
You guys live in the information age.。
You've never had more resources than this.。
And you know, so I got to that place.。
We were gonna meet at a restaurant。
and I was gonna follow him to the location.。
And he said, you know what, bro,。
just jump in with me, I'll drive.。
I'll drive, I'll take you there.。
And that's what I really hope happens tonight.。
That there's a surrendering in your soul.。
That you look at your dating relationships。
and you say, you know what,。
if the end goal is marriage,。
I may not be great at this.。
I may be doing something wrong.。
I'm not saying you are emphatically.。
I'm saying it's a possibility.。
I may be doing something wrong.。
You say, hey, God, you drive.。
You're the God, the creator of the heavens and the earth.。
If I'm gonna spend the rest of my life with someone,。
you see them right now in your mind's eye.。
You invented them, you made them,。
you know their family.。
You know everything about them.。
God, would you make my path straight?。
Would you drive?。
Would you help me to trust you。
in every way that I possibly can?。
Guys, you were made to be。
in a right relationship with Christ.。
Two sinners are incompatible.。
The only compatible relationship。
that you're gonna have is you and Jesus.。
That's it, period.。
That's the biggest thing in your life.。
It's not something that you just add to your life.。
It's the biggest thing in your life.。
So let me pray right now。
it'd be the biggest thing in your life.。
Father, thank you just for a fun night。
to get to hang out with one of my closest friends。
and talk through scriptures。
with a couple thousand other friends。
and laugh and dive into ancient truths。
that still apply to our lives today.。
Father, would you direct our hearts right now?。
Would you convict us where we're missing it。
and stir our affections towards what is right and true?。
And Father, as we trust in you with all our hearts,。
as we lean not on our own understanding。
but in everything that we do,。
look your direction,。
knowing, being completely and soberly aware。
that you're God,。
would you make our paths straight?。
Father, would you direct us?。
So God, we pray that you would take over our lives,。
that you would jump in the driver's seat,。
that we would forfeit the will,。
not just our will, but the will,。
that you would direct us, God.。
Give us holy relationships.。
Father, I pray that marriages would be produced。
in this place tonight.。
Truly, I really do.。
That people that desire to be married。
would find someone that would spend the rest of their life with them。
pursuing you together,。
that you would do that.。
For my friends here tonight that feel forgotten,。
Lord, would you let them know they're not forgotten,。
that their hope would be firmly in you,。
that you love them, that you have plans for them,。
that they would not just sit waiting for their desires。
to come be fulfilled,。
that they would actively fulfill your desires for them.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
JP is my favorite person to listen to on the topic of dating,。
and it's because he's someone who has said,。
"I surrender, Lord. There's nothing I want more.。
I want to know you, and I'm offering my life to you."。
JP would be the first to admit, "I did not do it perfectly right."。
And I would be the first to admit, "I did not do it perfectly right."。
But both of us have found that dating, though it is hard,。
does not have to be as hard as the world around us wants to make it.。
And so if you're in a relationship right now,。
walking through just pain,。
or you're coming out of a relationship。
that didn't end the way you saw it ending,。
and it hurts,。
and there's no--you can't get around it, it just--it sucks,。
we'd love to talk to you.。
We'd love to pray with you. We'd love to come alongside of you.。
We'd love to share and just talk with you.。
If you've never had the moment where you said,。
"Lord, I surrender all. I want to put aside every kingdom that I have,。
and I want to just place that inside of your hands,"。
we'd love to talk to you.。
We'll have an entire team down front to pray with,。
to just speak with.。
Can we thank JP?。
He spoke on Sunday and last night at Vertical,。
and I was like, "Dude, we're going to do this. It's going to be awesome."。
And he agreed to do it, and he's such a hero.。
It's so fun to get to do ministry with friends。
and people that love Jesus and who you love.。
And so I personally--the question about finding the one,。
I don't know that I would be married right now to my wife。
if we didn't walk through that.。
And JP, who did our wedding, also walked through that conversation and question with us.。
So if there's any of those questions we can follow up with, serve you, speak more into,。
we'll have an entire team down here, and we'll have porch late night.。
There's going to be a whole group of men and women outside。
putting on all kinds of fun and games, food trucks, porch late night.。
We're having a party here as long as you want to stay or until 10 o'clock.。
And so you guys have a great week.。
We love y'all, and we'll be down front if we can serve you.。
