Before I walked up here, we sang a song and the song said, "You are awesome in this place."。
I want to tell you, I absolutely believe that is true, but listen, I also have to acknowledge。
this.。
Sometimes this place is not awesome.。
Notice that's not what we sang.。
We didn't say, "This place is awesome, mighty God."。
Because sometimes this place just, I think in the vernacular of the day, sucks is what。
you would say about this place.。
There's a reason when we asked you all what it is that we wanted to talk about, what it。
is that we wanted to study and learn more of, or be reminded of, a disproportionate。
number of the responses were, "We want to know how to deal with anxiety and peace because。
this place is not awesome.。
In fact, this place is freaking me out a little bit at times."。
And it can.。
It can freak us out a lot.。
It can fill our hearts with a lot of anxiety.。
It can fill our hearts with a lot of sadness and despair.。
And so where is this awesome, mighty God when I live in a world that frankly isn't rolling。
like I thought it would or thought it should or needed to for me to have peace?。
Well, I hope you were with us last week when David did a great job of talking through Matthew。
6 and Jesus talking about this issue of anxiety and how he was just pretty straightforward.。
He said, "Listen, what I don't want you to do is ask for tomorrow's provision today.。
That doesn't make any sense.。
You don't need tomorrow's provision today.。
What you need to do today is seek the God who is awesome in this place.。
Seek the God who is awesome everywhere that He is.。
You need to meditate on His character, His nature.。
You need to get to know His name and His history.。
You need to know His resume, His CV, so that you can employ Him in every way in your life。
because anything other than that is going to wear you out.。
And so today, with all of your strength, don't worry about tomorrow.。
Tomorrow what you need to do is what you need to do today, which is seek first the kingdom。
of God and His righteousness and everything that you need will be given to you.。
For tomorrow, it says in verse 34, will take care of itself.。
Each day has enough trouble of its own.。
What you need to do today is remind yourself of who God is.。
And that is the only way that you will not experience anxiety.。
It's the only way that you will not be overwhelmed with fear and despair.。
Anything else, though it might temporarily numb your pain or temporarily distract you。
from your reality, everything else is going to be a temporary salve and it's frankly only。
going to continually increase trouble in your life because you're going to have to keep。
finding more and more things to distract you and numb you and you'll become more and more。
discouraged that everything you've tried isn't working and so you're going to wonder what。
could possibly work.。
And what you will finally eventually do, if you're lucky, you'll get back to a place that。
God said you should have started to from the very first time.。
And that is you'll find yourself flat on your back.。
And the great thing about being flat on your back is the only place that you can look is。
up.。
And up is where our help comes from, the God who is awesome everywhere that He is.。
Now let me just say this about God.。
One of the characteristics about God is that He is omnipresent.。
God is everywhere, okay?。
That doesn't mean that you can't kill a cockroach or kill an ant like Pantheist would tell you。
because God is in everything.。
No.。
When we say that God is everywhere, what that means is the sovereign reality of God's perfection。
and goodness is sovereignly over everything, even this world that is not always an awesome。
place.。
Which, of course, begs an amazing question which is if God is so good and God is so kind,。
why is this world so unkind and so ungood?。
And if He is everywhere and His awesomeness is directly over everything, why is this world。
so screwed up?。
And frankly, why is my world so screwed up?。
That is a very fair question.。
And it's one that I hope to answer tonight, not by really dealing with the specific problem。
of evil, but by telling you what God wants you to know and what He wants you to do so。
that you might have a peace that passes understanding.。
Because here's the deal.。
What worry is is a constant thinking that God's not going to get it right.。
What bitterness and despair and depression is is a constant belief that God has already。
got it wrong.。
Let me say that again.。
Worry is believing that God's not going to get it right.。
And so what you've got to do is you eject from confidence and belief in Him and you。
enthrone yourself with some other strategy.。
You try and meet a God-given need in a God-forbidden way or a God-given desire in a God-forbidden。
way.。
And then next thing you know, you're going to find yourself lacking peace because God。
can't give you what doesn't exist apart from Him.。
If He is the God of peace and you leave Him, you won't get peace.。
So follow this.。
That's why God says, "Don't you worry about what I'm going to do tomorrow.。
I've got tomorrow.。
Focus on Me."。
That's why God describes Himself this way, "I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob."。
Now whenever somebody introduces Himself that way, what you might want to do is go back。
and figure out who is Abraham, who is Isaac, who is Jacob?。
How did God deal with them?。
Was God faithful with them through every circumstance?。
Even when they weren't faithful, was God still faithful with them?。
Did God come through?。
Did God promise them something?。
And did He not eventually accomplish it?。
And the answer you will see is yes.。
And so what God is doing is He's saying, "Hey, don't take My word for it.。
Ask everybody that's ever followed Me."。
If you ever want to go to a church that's preaching a real short message, look for a。
pastor that the title of his message is, "The Mistakes and Apologies of God," because that's。
going to be a very short sermon.。
There is none.。
Because in addition to being omnipresent, we know that He is good.。
And so why are we freaking out if God's awesome in this place and I'm in this place?。
And the answer is because we've got our eyes on this world that is not awesome.。
God says, "By the way, you shouldn't be surprised this world is not awesome," because this place。
is not obeying the God who is awesome right here in this place.。
So here's what I want to do just to start out.。
Remind you of this.。
Worry is us believing, and this is where it comes from.。
Anxiety is us thinking that God is not going to get it right.。
Bitterness and depression is us believing that God got it wrong or that we've done something。
so wrong God could never make it right.。
And joy and peace, which is the opposite of anxiety and despair, joy and peace is the。
knowledge that God is sovereign, He is good, He is powerful, and He is intimately acquainted。
with your ways.。
And that's really what I'm going to offer you tonight.。
What God is going to say is, "Listen, the reason this world is so messed up is even。
though I'm here in the world and I want to do business with everybody and I want to share。
my promises and my perspective and give you my revelation so you can see what I see, what。
I'm up to, and why we are where we are in this very consistent Christian explanation。
for reality."。
That's what the Bible is.。
It is the only working, not philosophy, but it's the only working revelation that we can。
say, "If that is true, then this world makes sense."。
And God can still be awesome even though this is not an awesome place.。
So here's what I want to do.。
I'm going to tell you the secret to dealing with your number one need, which according。
to you is anxiety and despair, fear and anxiousness, is having a real understanding that what we。
sang a minute ago is true and that as God you are awesome, period, and that you know。
me and that you love me.。
And so even though I see things going on around me that would seem to indicate that either。
you're not sovereign over this moment or that you're not awesome if you are sovereign over。
this moment, I'm going to go back to what I know is true.。
And I'm going to believe that you care about me and that if you inserted my name, the God。
of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and Todd, that your resume would still be perfect.。
And so what I want to do is introduce you to this God tonight.。
Look, we've got to go back and we've got to believe what Jeremiah 29 11 says.。
Now watch.。
I'm going to just quote to you Jeremiah 29 11 first where God says, "For I know the plans。
that I have for you," declares the Lord, "plans to give you a future and a hope, plans for。
welfare and not for calamity."。
Which when you hear that verse, you go, "Man, cool, I will chill."。
That's why so many of us, if you have ever picked the favorite Bible verse, love Jeremiah。
29 11.。
Oh man, that just, is that true Todd?。
That there's a God and his plans for me to give me a future and a hope?。
And his plans for me are for welfare?。
Oh man, why didn't somebody tell me that?。
Because now I can sleep, now I can stop freaking out about what I've done or what's going to。
happen.。
All right, and let me just say this to you.。
I hate to ruin your favorite Bible verse by putting it in context, but you need to see。
the context of that verse.。
That is God telling people who are not just filled with anxiety and dread, their world。
is a result of them not knowing God and walking with God and rejecting God as the source of。
their provision, protection and peace.。
And therefore, they are not having a very good day, their future doesn't look all that。
bright, their hope is gone, and they've got no welfare and nothing but calamity.。
That's what Jeremiah, and God's over there going, "Yoo-hoo, over here.。
For I can tell you what I've got over here, but you've rejected me and so even though。
I'm awesome everywhere I am and I'm sovereign over there, I'm choosing to let you have what。
you have chose.。
And I'm awesome in that place over there too.。
I don't, you don't need to be physically over here, you need to be by faith related to me。
and walking in my ways."。
Let me just insert this to you because I want to tell you that nobody, I don't at least,。
I don't look at you and scoff at you because you're anxious or fearful or sometimes despairing.。
Probably arguably the most brilliant theologian of the previous century felt the exact same。
way.。
And you go, "Well wait a minute, Todd, that seems really bizarre to me because you're。
up there and you're going to try and tell us tonight how we cannot be this person that。
is like everybody else in this world which is overwhelmed and despairing and anxious。
and you just told me the guy that knows more about God and who's probably done more to。
reveal who God is through creative narratives and storytelling and just incredible intellect。
and rationale, that guy felt like I forgot that God forgot him and he was despairing?"。
Yes, I'm going to read you from his journal.。
Now look, if that guy was alive, there was about three decades of his life that he couldn't。
come to the porch even though he was single because the guy was 50 and still single, never。
had married.。
And finally, finally, after 50 years of chaste life, he came to know God later in his life.。
He wasn't a believer all those days but he lived a chaste life and eventually found a。
woman that he absolutely loved and he married her.。
And by the way, now he knew Christ and he was writing these amazing works, actually。
doing radio programs broadcast all over England at the time that were just radically transforming。
his culture and you think if God's going to be nice and kind to anybody, it'd be this。
guy.。
Well, four years in to finally finding a woman he loves, he loses her to cancer.。
And so that's going to shake him to the core and he starts despairing.。
And this is what he writes, he says, "Meanwhile, where is God?"。
This is one of the most disquieting symptoms of going through pain like this, of grief.。
When you're happy, so happy that you have no sense of needing him, so happy that you're。
tempted to feel his claims upon you as an interruption, if you remember yourself and。
turn to him with gratitude and praise, you will be, or at least so it feels, welcome。
with open arms.。
But go to him when your need is desperate, when all other help is in vain, and what do。
you find?。
A door slammed in your face.。
A sound of bolting and double bolting on the inside.。
After that, silence.。
You may as well turn away.。
The longer you wait, the more emphatic the silence will become.。
There are no lights in the windows.。
It might be an empty house.。
Was it ever inhabited?。
It seemed so once, and that seeming was as strong as this.。
What can this mean?。
Why is God so present a commander in our time of prosperity and so very absent a help in。
time of trouble?。
What a great question.。
Can I just start by just saying this?。
Being tempted to believe that God is not awesome is not sin.。
I'm constantly tempted to believe that God is not awesome in this place or awesome at。
all.。
Now what you do with that temptation is going to make the difference between whether or。
not you're going to be a person who walks out of here tonight and lives in a peace that。
passes understanding or if you take that bait based on what you see and what you're experiencing。
and you snap on that and you go, "You know what?。
God isn't good.。
God's word isn't true.。
God can't be trusted.。
Disobeying him has got to be better than obeying him."。
Because you feel like he's forgotten you, then you will continually be anxious and I'm。
going to prove it to you tonight.。
God won't be mad at you, but he's just going to keep saying not your favorite Bible verse,。
but God's favorite thing to remind you of, which is I know how you're feeling.。
I know what you're going through.。
Listen, by the way, the reason you're going through that is because you're not enjoying。
me, the God who is awesome.。
If you were, you would know who I am.。
You know my plan for you is to give you a future and a hope.。
See, the Bible says this.。
The Bible says that we don't grieve as those who have no hope.。
What I want you to understand what's implied there.。
What's implied there is that you do get to grieve.。
C.S. Lewis is the guy that I'm talking about, the guy who wrote Chronicles of Narnia, the。
guy who wrote Mere Christianity, the guy who wrote this book I'm reading from called The。
Grief Observed.。
C.S. Lewis grieved.。
Those were deep words of grief.。
Now what's really unfair, what I just did is I cut him off.。
What he did is he sat down and he was honest to God.。
See, God's a big boy.。
He's a father.。
I'm a dad.。
I got six kids.。
I understand sometimes my kids don't know what I know.。
They haven't lived the life that I've lived.。
They don't have the information that I have.。
Sometimes they are not happy with me and they don't want to trust me.。
In fact, they're railing in all their adolescent rage against my counsel or against even at。
times my sovereign awesomeness to keep them from being idiots.。
When I say, "Listen, your daddy is awesome in this place," they go, "No, he's not.。
If he was awesome, my friends would think I was a geek.。
My friends would not be having fun at the party tonight and I wouldn't be," and on and。
on and on it might go.。
Because Lord knows everybody else is doing it, right?。
They seem to be getting away with it, whatever it is, and having a heck of a time.。
As they get older, by the way, I do what any loving father does.。
I don't rule their life in the exact same way.。
I've trained them.。
I've done everything I can to show them my character, my nature, that it's not for me。
that I give them these instructions, it's because I love them and I give them freedom.。
Sometimes I've got to say, "How's that working out over there?。
I know the plans I have for you.。
My plans were to give you a future and a hope.。
My plans for welfare, not for calamity, but I'm going to love you enough that the only。
way that you can learn is through calamity, then go through learning through calamity."。
Let me just tell you guys something.。
Experience isn't a masterful teacher.。
It's just a very expensive one.。
Some of you guys in this room know that the world does not give you what it says it's。
going to give you for long.。
You've learned that the hard way.。
Even though God told you from the beginning that he's where life is, some of you go, "I。
think I'll see if there's life somewhere else."。
You know what, man?。
That rocket ride starts pretty good at the beginning, but inevitably, inevitably you。
come back and you go, "This isn't all it's cranked up to be."。
They don't show you the end of the story a lot in those music videos or in those movie。
scenes, or my friends that have bragged about all their experiences haven't told me about。
the still of the night and the pain of the heart.。
See the story I read from C.S. Lewis was just page one of an entire journal entry where。
he continued to tell his father how he felt, but he stayed there and let his father speak。
to him.。
I'm going to tell you one of the keys to dealing with your anxiety and one of the keys。
to dealing with your pain and with your sadness is to learn to trust in the revelation and。
the word of God.。
One of the things that you have to do as you begin to really struggle is to remember in。
your questioning to quietly listen.。
In your wrestling, remember revelation, things that God has already told you and explained。
to you.。
This is an amazing verse in Isaiah chapter 40.。
It just says this, "Why do you assert, O Jacob," by the way, I'm going to tell you just a little。
bit more about Jeremiah 29, but in Isaiah 40 he's talking to the exact same people that。
he's talking to there in Jeremiah 29.。
It says, "Why do you say, O Jacob," it's the name for the nation of Israel, "Why do you。
assert that my way is hidden from the Lord and that justice dubious escapes the notice。
of my God?"。
Why would you ever say that?。
Have you ever said that?。
Not in those same kind of poetic words where you go, "God, why have you not noticed me?。
Why does the justice do me escape you?。
If you're awesome, why is my life the way that it is?"。
This is what the scriptures say, the prophet Isaiah says, "Do you not know?。
Have you not heard?。
The everlasting God, the Lord, the creator of the ends of the earth, he does not become。
weary or tired, his understanding is inscrutable, he is awesome in this place.。
He gives strength to the weary and to him who lacks might, he increases power, though。
youth grow weary and tired and vigorous young men, porch going young men stumble badly.。
Yet those who wait for the Lord," you see that word right there?。
That's the word that you're going to have to learn to embrace if you want to deal with。
your anxiety.。
Those who wait for the Lord will not be anxious, they'll gain new strength.。
They're going to mount up on wings like eagles.。
What do eagle's wings do?。
They catch that little, they catch that air and it just pulls them up.。
They'll mount up with wings like eagles, they will run and not get tired, they won't be。
despairing people.。
They will walk and not become weary.。
See that's not your story, you might go, "Todd, I'm anxious, I'm weary, I'm 26, I'm single,。
it's been a long time since I've had a date.。
I don't know if I can wait until I'm 50 to get married so that my wife dies in four years。
so I can be angry at God again."。
Well, I want you to wait until you're 50 to get married, I want you to wait today on God.。
I want you to really wait and see what he says he is.。
I want you to tune in, are you ready?。
Now let me just take one more second, I want to explain to you what is going on in Jeremiah。
chapter 29 because in Jeremiah chapter 29 again, the context of this passage is the。
reason that you're filled with despair Israel and filled with anxiety is because you have。
rejected me.。
This is the context, this is the verses around your favorite Bible verse.。
In Jeremiah 29 10, "For thus says the Lord God, when 70 years have been completed for。
Babylon," in other words, there's going to be a season where you're going to experience。
life without me because that's the only way you're going to really learn that I'm good,。
you won't believe me while you're here.。
By the way, you can be at church for a long time just like my buddy JP said earlier tonight,。
"I was around church for a long time but I was never in relationship with the awesome。
God."。
Right, you've heard all the silly analogies, just because you come to a church doesn't。
mean you're an abiding Christian anymore than sleeping in your garage tonight won't make。
you a car.。
There's got to be some characteristic about you in that garage that makes you a car and。
there has to be some characteristic about you in this place that will make you an abiding。
Christ follower which is the person who is peace that passes understanding.。
What he's saying is you're here with me Israel, you're in this land filled with milk and honey,。
this land where the temple is but you haven't been walking with me, you don't know me and。
you have not observed my commandments and so God's going to let them have the consequences。
of not knowing him.。
In this case, it was being driven away from that land for 70 years and he says after you're。
there for 70 years and you realize that every other option for peace can't be found, you're。
going to come back and maybe go, "Maybe we should try listening to the God we've always。
known about."。
And he says this in verse 12, "Then you will call upon me and come to me and pray to me。
and I will listen to you."。
In other words, this is what you need to really remind yourself, okay?。
When you're despairing, you got to go, listen, my favorite Bible verse is Jeremiah 29 and。
11 which says, "I know the plans you have for me," says the Lord, "plans to give you。
a future and a hope, plans for welfare and a calamity if I repent of my trying to find。
life and peace apart from him.。
If I return to him and meditate on him and I stop worrying about what's going to happen。
to me tomorrow or the next day and today I seek first God and his kingdom and his righteousness,。
then he tells me I will experience that."。
That is a verse that is calling you to return and to repent.。
Verse 13 just continues to emphasize this, "You will seek me and you will find me when。
you search me with all your heart."。
What did Jesus say was the key to not having anxiety?。
See, this is why Jesus was so brilliant.。
He knew his Bible.。
People go, "Well, how do I deal with anxiety?"。
He goes, "Well, seek first God and his kingdom, man."。
He didn't say go to church.。
He didn't say be in a community group.。
He said, "Listen, use your community to remind you of the goodness of God.。
Be in a church that calls you to abide with the God that they sing about and talk about."。
And then it says in verse 14, "I will be found by you," declares the Lord.。
"I will restore you.。
I will restore your fortunes.。
I will gather you from all the nations, from all the places where I have driven you," declares。
the Lord.。
"I will bring you back to the place from where I sent you."。
Here's the truth.。
Sometimes, I just need to let you know, sometimes your anxiety is not a sign of your insanity,。
it's a sign of your reality.。
I mean, one of the things you need to know is that sometimes God gives you over to anxiety。
so that you might go, "What I'm doing is not working."。
Now here's the problem.。
You live in a world that wants to keep you from going anywhere but to God.。
This world does not call you to repent.。
That's just way too old-fashioned.。
So the world's smarter than God.。
And so what the world says is, "Take this pill.。
What we gotta do is just mix the cocktail, the pharmaceuticals that we give you, or maybe。
sex isn't enough so we gotta spice it up.。
And if you have sex this way, then you'll start to really find life.。
Or maybe it's your career, or maybe it's your current boyfriend or girlfriend, or maybe。
it's your current spouse.。
Let's just hit reset on that and go somewhere else."。
In the world, mostly though, when you finally try all those things and you're still sad,。
you'll go see a doctor, "Doctor, I don't know what's wrong with me."。
And he'll say, "Look, take this and you'll feel better."。
And you might feel better, but here's the thing, you're just masking the pain.。
You're dealing with an infection, not with an antibiotic, but with a painkiller, and。
that leaves the infection there.。
The Bible says that sometimes we are where we are because of the choices that we make.。
See if this doesn't sound like a person who is depressed.。
This is a guy named David.。
It's in Psalm 32.。
He says, "I'm gonna tell you what, you know who the blessed guy is?。
The blessed guy is the guy whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered by the awesome。
God.。
How blessed is that man to whom the Lord does not give what he deserves to him."。
That's what impute iniquity means.。
"In whose spirit there is no deceit."。
In other words, his spirit is inclined towards truth, not error.。
David said, "Let me just tell you my story.。
When I was silent about my sin, my body wasted away through my groaning all day long."。
Do you know anybody like that?。
By the way, you might be that guy where you're just kinda like, "Oh, my job, my boyfriend,。
my body image, my career, my story, my history, my parents, my family of origin."。
He says, "For day and night, your hand was heavy upon me.。
My vitality was drained away as with a fever heat of summer.。
But then I acknowledged my sin to you and my iniquity I did not hide.。
I said, 'I'm gonna confess that I've been trying to figure out how to do life without。
you God and you forgave me.'"。
See, there's a word, Selah, that's in there.。
Before that he said, "Do you remember how bad life was?"。
And he just stops right there.。
That Selah means pause, just sit and remember and meditate.。
It's why I tell a lot of people who come to me that I talk to who are really struggling,。
I go, "Hey, man, you know what you need to do?。
You need to go home right now and you need to journal how lonely and filled with self-hate。
and despair you are."。
Because believe it or not, believe it or not, if you listen to me and you respond to God,。
there's gonna be a day that you forget how bad it is to turn away from him.。
And you have to be able to go back and read your own testimony of anxiousness and fear。
and despairing when you leave God.。
I know you think you'll never forget this, but I'm gonna tell you something, you will。
forget this pain, you will forget this guilt, you will forget this shame.。
Don't waste the pain.。
Write it down right now.。
That's called Selah, just sit in it.。
But then he says, "But then I also acknowledge my sin to God and my iniquity I did not hide,。
I confess and God forgave me."。
And then you just go, you go meditate on that, man, that God says, "You're forgiven, I'm。
not angry at you."。
See, here's the deal with my kids, I just had this conversation this week with one of。
my children, I said, "I'm not mad, man, you won't believe how quickly I want to restore。
all the relationship.。
I'm just looking for humility, I'm just looking for honest, broken, contrite hearts.。
I can work with that."。
I want to turn this judgment that I've got to leave you in into blessing and you won't。
believe how quickly I want to turn it into blessing.。
That's what God's saying to you tonight.。
He knows where you've been, you don't have to manage that information, He already knows.。
You just got to go, "God, this isn't working out."。
He goes, "I know it's not working out.。
This is not a good day, I know it's not a good day."。
And God's over here, "Return to me, come."。
And He's ready to start working with you.。
Now listen, that doesn't mean that there's not some things you got to deal with that。
are real, but He said, "Let's start to deal with them."。
And you're going to find that I'll even take this darkest, saddest part of your life and。
I will redeem it.。
I'll use it for good.。
And I didn't need you to do that so I could turn it to good, but watch, this is what I。
do.。
I take ashes and I make them beautiful.。
I take what you intended for evil and I use it for glory.。
That's what God does and only God can do.。
David just says, "Therefore man, let everyone who is godly pray to you in a time when you。
might be found.。
But if you are in the flood of great waters, you will not reach Him."。
The truth is, is sometimes God is just, He's like the prodigal father.。
You're waiting on Him to rescue you, but here's what God does.。
God stands there and He tells you where He is.。
And He says, "Come, come."。
And He'll whisper to you, "I'm there, I'm not mad at you.。
You know, you're my daughter, you're beautiful.。
I know, there you are again in somebody else's arms trying to find meaning and acceptance,。
just come here, come to me."。
And God will run to you and He'll run to you in whispers.。
I had a guy who came to me one time and I mean, this guy was not just struggling with。
anxiety, I mean this guy had an anxiety disorder that was off the charts.。
He had all kinds of medications that he was taking.。
He could hardly get out of his house.。
He couldn't hold a job because on any given day he'd be so freaked out that he was going。
to die or something awful was going to happen to him that he couldn't exercise, he couldn't。
hardly eat, he couldn't function as a normal human.。
And we had a mutual friend and his friend said, "What would you say to him?"。
I go, "I'll tell you exactly what I'd say to him."。
I mean, just let me ask you this, who does he know that really loves the Lord and does。
he know the Lord?。
He goes, "No, he's got no relationship with God."。
I go, "I know what I'd say to him, just drive him over."。
And so he drove this guy over and he sat down with me.。
I said, "Tell me your story."。
And this guy was scared to death.。
He goes, "Well, I mean, Todd, I tried to even drive myself.。
I didn't want my friend to have to drive me, but I got out to my car and I started it and。
I turned it off and I ran back upstairs."。
He said, "My life's a mess."。
And he went on and on and on and on.。
I go, "Well, what are you scared of?。
What's got you so anxious?"。
And then he went on to tell me and I just said, "Can I just tell you something, bro?。
You're not insane.。
You're the only sane person I know.。
You just got through telling me you don't believe there's a God.。
You just got through telling me you don't believe if there's a God that he's good.。
You just got through telling me that you've got nothing in this world but yourself to。
hope in."。
That ought to make you absolutely frozen in fear and despair because I got to tell you。
something, every single one of you guys, you see God's put eternity in your hearts and。
you know that one day you're going to come to an end.。
He's put mortality in your mirror.。
You see that you're dying.。
And what everyone else in the world tries to do, they try and kick the can down the。
road and they try and ignore this reality.。
And I'm just telling you, I told that guy, I go, "Listen, man, you're the only sane atheist。
I know.。
Every other atheist I know is still trying to convince themselves that life is good,。
that judgment's not real, that they can find life apart from a God that really does exist。
and that says life is only found in Him and that everybody else has always failed to find。
true meaning and peace in everything the world offers, that they're going to be the first。
one that finds it."。
Those are the people that are crazy.。
You, my friend, are sane.。
The problem is in your sanity and your awareness of the despairing state of being a mortal。
man who stands in judgment before a holy God is you're not doing what a really wise man。
would do, which is to avail yourself to His mercy.。
And bro, I got to tell you, I think if you'll do that, I think you'll see everything change.。
And let me just tell you about that guy.。
He's not mad at you.。
He loves you.。
And he wants you to come out of this 70 years of exile and return to him.。
See, I want to tell you that's what God wants for you.。
And this happens to all of us.。
It happens to C.S. Lewis.。
It's going to happen to me tonight.。
There's going to be a time when I move into this exile, this Babylonian place where something's。
not going the way that I want and I'm going to start to move away from God's not good,。
God can't be trusted, God's word's not true, and I'm going to start to have my world melt。
around me and God's going to say, "Todd, return to me.。
Listen, remember, I'm a good God.。
I've got good plans.。
I've got welfare.。
I've got future.。
I've got hope.。
But you're going to have to trust me.。
Okay, your feelings are real.。
What you see is real.。
But listen, gang, can I just say this to you?。
Feelings are real.。
They're just not reliable.。
They're not reliable.。
Let me read you this.。
I got this prayer request not long ago.。
It's from a mom.。
She said, "My precious son, raised in the Lord, I believe called to ministry, gifted。
and anointed.。
He was baited with the temptation of lust at an early age.。
He was later lured into a relationship and then sought counsel from a leader at his school。
who instead of calling him to repentance, encouraged him to explore and trust his flesh。
all the more.。
This leader comforted him and had many deep conversations with him and said that she had。
similar torment until she trusted her own flesh and followed her own lifestyle choices。
and urged him to be himself and to not live for anybody else.。
My son ultimately chose to strengthen himself in the Lord.。
He received biblical counsel.。
He resisted for a time, but later he began dabbling in pornography unbeknownst to us。
as well as alternate solutions to his pain.。
When he learned to drive, he gave in to the temptation and he wholeheartedly entered into。
more and more illicit relationships.。
Social media at that point increasingly began to tell the story of his struggles and decline。
into sin and death.。
And waves of well-meaning Christian friends sometimes encouraged him and celebrated his。
exploring all of life and bravery in pursuing freedom and who he really was.。
Our hearts broke.。
Words utterly failed how we felt at this time.。
We told him that we could not continue to allow him to make these choices, that we had。
raised him in truth, we wanted to walk in that truth.。
He insisted that we not even mention any of that ever again.。
We could not be silent and he left.。
At times he would come home in anger because we would not just endorse his choices, but。
we kept seeking godly counsel and increasingly held him accountable for his choices all the。
while reminding him that we loved him.。
Since then, watch this, our son has transformed into this person that he has never been.。
He had always been kind and generous, hilarious.。
Now he's moody, now he's cross, now he's miserable, now he's anxious, now he's angry.。
He's also begun drinking and I believe using drugs.。
My husband and our other three children have shown unconditional, nonjudgmental love throughout。
this devastating season.。
When he calls, we mostly listen.。
Sometimes he will go to dinner with us.。
Rarely will he ever come home and if he does, it's only for very short visits.。
All of this to say, someone, someone from your church has recently reached out to him。
and been a faithful witness to him.。
Our son's battling a lot of emotional issues.。
He believes that he's bipolar.。
Let me just tell you something, this kid is not bipolar.。
He's not bisexual.。
This kid is struggling, in my opinion, because he wants to continue to try and find peace。
apart from God and that anxiety is sanity.。
Because he knows the truth.。
He's tried to find life in this for a long time and it doesn't give him life.。
It just gives him more sadness.。
Even though there's moments of euphoria and escape from his pain, there are seasons of。
despair.。
That will make you very anxious.。
The world's solution is gonna say, "No, no, man.。
"Let's take some of this and we can numb that pain."。
It's not God's solution.。
What is God's solution?。
Here's God's solution, be honest.。
Just like C.S. Lewis was, but watch, stick in there.。
What I'm gonna do is I don't have time to read you the rest of a grief observance, it's。
like 100 pages, but what I wanna tell you where C.S. Lewis got his idea.。
You ready?。
It's in Psalm 13.。
Here's what I want you to know.。
This is what you gotta remember.。
Remember in all your questioning and all your anxious wondering, remember to quietly listen.。
Here's David again.。
And I want you to listen to the way David talks to the father.。
And I want you to know as a father, I don't have any trouble sometimes with my kids sobbing。
and go, "God, how long, man?。
"How long are the popular kids who are compromising "in every way you told me I should, how long。
"are they gonna prosper and I'm gonna feel this deep pain "in my heart, how long?"。
And I just get to hold them.。
I get to remind them of their beauty and dignity and their value.。
And they go, "Yeah, yeah, you're just my dad, "you've gotta say that."。
Just like, "Yeah, yeah, God, I know you feel that way."。
I just wanna experience that here a little bit.。
Watch David.。
He says this, "How long, oh Lord, "will you forget me forever?。
"How long will you hide your face from me?。
"How long shall I take counsel in my own soul?。
"How, having sorrow in my heart all the day, "how long will my enemy be exalted over me?"。
Now think about this, this is somebody talking to God.。
This is a man of God's own heart.。
Consider, it's another way to say, "How long, and you answer me, oh Lord, my God,。
"enlighten my eyes, or I will sleep the sleep of death, "and my enemy will say, 'I've overcome。
him,' "and my adversaries will rejoice when I am shaken."。
See, I love this, I love what David does here.。
He does what anybody who would know that there's a loving father there would do, who has awesome。
understanding in ways that we don't have.。
He just goes to him, he says, "God, I'm not happy.。
"I don't like what's going on.。
"How long is it going to be this way?"。
But watch what David did, it's what C.S. Lewis did, it's what you've gotta do if you really。
want to learn how to not live an anxious, sad, despairing life.。
You gotta shut up and listen.。
Sometimes people will come to me and they'll go, they'll just say, "Hey Todd, let me ask。
you a question.。
"What in the world were you thinking?。
"What were you doing?。
"Why did you execute that way?。
"I mean, who would have possibly thought that was the right thing to do?。
"I can't believe that when you were confronted with that opportunity and situation, that's。
what you did.。
"It makes no sense to me whatsoever.。
"I just don't understand you."。
Boom, shut the door and walk away.。
Now, when that happens, I usually open the door and go, "Sweetie, come here, all right?"。
My wife doesn't come at me that way, but let's just say somebody did.。
Would you go, "Well Todd, they asked you a question.。
"They did exactly what Psalm 13 says."。
'Cause here's the thing, that person, if they did what I said they did, which is what?。
What'd they do at the very end of that howlongingness?。
What'd I say they did?。
Slam the door and walked away.。
You see, when you do that, you're not asking God.。
You're just there to deliver a message.。
You are incompetent and you are accusing God of not being good, his word not being true,。
and disobeying him has gotta be better than hanging out with his awesomeness.。
Boom, I'm done with you and I'm on my own way.。
It's not what C.S. Lewis did.。
It's not what David did.。
What David did right there is he stopped and there's a word, it's in verse five, the word。
is "but."。
It's a word of contrast.。
He said, "But," in verse five, "I have trusted in your loving kindness."。
The word for loving kindness is your covenant promise.。
He went back to the promise of God and he meditated on it.。
He said, "My heart shall rejoice in your salvation.。
I will sing to the Lord because he is bound to flee with me."。
David sat, that's just two short verses, after all of his ranting, okay, he just stopped.。
And he just went back and he reminded himself of what is true.。
He goes, "It doesn't look like God's good.。
It doesn't look like he's awesome, but I know he's awesome.。
I know he's the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.。
What'd you do with Abraham?。
How'd you do with Isaac?。
What about Jacob?。
How'd you do with him?。
Boy, God, it doesn't look like you ever let them go.。
Boy, there were some seasons in there, but I see what you're doing now.。
I get to look back and I see you maketh no mistakes."。
Now, you can abandon that God because he doesn't work in your timetable, or you can go, "I'm。
gonna wait."。
Because by the way, I've learned from experience going over there, it works for a season, but。
it makes you feel worse.。
This is exactly, by the way, what you would expect Jesus to have done.。
Jesus himself, and I'll show you at the very end of what I'm about to do in just a moment,。
had a very Psalm 13 moment.。
Jesus was always confronted.。
And by the way, I love Hebrews chapter four in verse 15.。
It says, "For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses,。
but we have one who has been tempted in everything as we have been and yet is without sin.。
So therefore, let us draw with confidence to the throne of grace that we might receive。
mercy and find grace to help us in a time of need."。
In other words, Jesus knows what it's like to go, "God, how long, man?。
How long is this gonna go down?。
How long until you answer me?。
My enemies, if you don't do something soon, they're gonna say, 'I've overcome him, and。
my adversaries will rejoice while I am shaken.'"。
And so I love this little story in Matthew chapter four.。
It's when Jesus, it says, watch this, in Matthew four, "And Jesus was led by the Spirit."。
In other words, the awesome God goes, "Come here, let me take you in my awesomeness to。
this desert."。
And what did the Spirit of God do?。
He led him into a wilderness, and there he was tempted by the devil.。
I'm gonna show you exactly how he was tempted by the devil, and guess what?。
It's the exact same way Adam was tempted in paradise.。
What you're about to see here is the contrast between what a godly man does and an ungodly。
man does.。
What you're about to see here is how Jesus, in a desert, with no provision, does the right。
thing and at least a blessing, where man, in the perfect place, with all the comforts。
in the world, does the wrong thing and at least a curse.。
So he's in the desert, and it says that he fasted for 40 days and 40 nights.。
And I love the Bible, it's so full of exaggerations, it says, "And he became hungry."。
Okay?。
So, by the way, I'm talking to my single friends, and so I know some of you guys are 24 and。
you're still virgins.。
I mean, way to go, all right?。
Right?。
You've not really just dove in.。
I don't mean that too sarcastically, although I'm gonna be sarcastic in just a second, all。
right?。
Some of you guys are 28, some of you guys are 34, and you're still virgins.。
Wow.。
Here's what I want you to do.。
I want you to say, "I'm not gonna eat for 40 days."。
And then what I'm gonna do is, whoever you are, you know, when you're, right now, at。
the beginning of your 40-day fast, guys, just write down whoever the girl of your dreams。
is, okay?。
I'm gonna deliver her naked to your bed in 40 days, okay?。
And I'm gonna put a Big Mac next to her.。
I'm gonna say, "Which one?。
What are you up for?"。
All right?。
Now, the reason I do that is because you go, "Well, Jesus can't relate to me being a virgin.。
He died when he was 33.。
I'm 35 years old."。
Let's do the 40-day Big Mac test, all right?。
And so here's the deal.。
He's in the wilderness.。
It's 40 days.。
And then the enemy shows up and goes, "Hey, man, are you nuts?。
I know who you are."。
By the way, if you ever wanna see good theology, read what demons say about Jesus.。
"You're the holy one of God who will judge us at the end of time.。
I know who you are."。
Because they live in the spirit realm.。
They see what we don't see.。
They say, "He walks up to you, 'I know who you are, bro.。
You're part of the Trinity.。
You're the one that volunteered to come down here on this mission to redeem the world.。
And your father said he'd watch over you.。
He'd watch over you.。
And the spirit said he would guide you.。
He guided you, bro, right in the wilderness for 40 days."。
How's the ambrosia of the gods working out for you here?。
Let me tell you what's going on.。
Your daddy is up there partying, eating your portion of the eternal meal, and he's forgotten。
all about you.。
So what you need to do, bro, is you need to seize this life by the horns.。
In other words, break the terms of the incarnation.。
Don't live as Todd Wagner has to live as a finite man.。
Even though he was still fully God, he had the ability in a second to do what he wanted.。
And by the way, if he'd have said, "Why don't you take that stone right there, 40-day hungry。
boy, and turn it to bread?"。
What do you think Jesus would have done?。
"You know what?。
I'm a little hungry.。
You know what?。
It makes sense to me that God didn't care about you.。
It hasn't been a long time since I've eaten."。
Well, what did Jesus do?。
What Jesus did that moment is what we've got to do.。
He had to keep reminding himself of things that were true.。
And so he said, "Man's not going to live by bread alone.。
He's not going to live by sex alone.。
He's not going to live by barbiturates alone.。
He's not going to live by career alone.。
He's not going to live by relationships alone."。
But by every word that's true of the awesome God, that's what he did.。
He said, "I'm going to trust in the awesome God."。
And it says as soon as he did that, at that moment, and the reason God let him go through。
that is so that we would know in Hebrews chapter 4 that we've got a high priest who gets at。
man.。
He knows how hard it is to be chaste.。
He knows how hard it is to be faithful, but he's showing you it's worth it.。
It's good.。
It says at that point, the spirit of God came, ministered to him.。
The how long this was in that moment and God's sovereignty was over.。
And that's why, you know, this is what it says in 2 Corinthians chapter 10.。
It says, "For though we walk in the flesh, we don't war according to the flesh.。
For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but they're divinely powerful for。
the destruction of fortresses.。
We are destroying speculations and every lofty thing lifted up against the cause, the knowledge。
of God, and we're taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ."。
You want to not be despairing and anxious?。
That's what you got to do.。
You got to go because look it, remember what I told you?。
Here's Jesus over here.。
Hey man, God's forgotten you.。
If God loved you, he would make you not eat.。
How about this?。
Hey man, I know God lets you eat anything you want, but if he really loved you, he'd。
let you eat this.。
God's not good and you could eat this.。
And by the way, God isn't good and his word's not that true.。
You could eat this and you won't die and disobeying God's not that big a deal.。
Those were the three lies that he gave Adam.。
God isn't good, his word can't be trusted, disobeying him's not that big a deal.。
You go read Matthew 4, it's exactly what Jesus has put through.。
The lust of the eyes, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the boastful pride of life, and。
he said, "God can't be true.。
God's not good.。
God's forgotten you.。
Disobeying him won't be that big a deal.。
I can give you everything he gives you."。
And every time you cave in, you're buying those same three lies.。
And guess what happens when you buy them?。
You don't get the peace that sin promised you, ever.。
Oh man, you have some moments of ecstasy, but you wake up, there you are again, naked。
and ashamed.。
There's the solution.。
Don't tell anybody you're pregnant.。
We can take you over here and we won't call it your child.。
We'll call it a mass of cells and we'll deal with it and no one ever has to know.。
How'd that work out?。
I could go on and on.。
And here's what I'm telling you as a dad, I'm not mad at you.。
Your father in heaven's not mad at you, he just goes, "Oh, I know that doesn't work.。
That was not the right solution."。
And not only are you fearful of who you are, you're fearful that someone will figure out。
what you did.。
I'm not fearful.。
I know what you did.。
I know what I've got for you.。
Come here.。
Come here, baby.。
Come here.。
You know, let me just say this about Jesus.。
It can be argued, gang, that the only one who really understands fully the extent of。
what temptation is, is the one who fully resists it.。
In other words, we don't even know what Jesus went through because we all at some point。
against that irresistible force of believing God's not good, we relented and so temptation。
stopped.。
But Jesus never stopped.。
And so I think he's the only one that really understands the force of temptation.。
He has been tempted, not in every way as we have been without sin, he's been tempted in。
ways that none of us have even allowed ourselves to be tempted because we eventually, most。
of us, don't take the way of escape that God provided with it and we just go, and guess。
what it leads to?。
Despair and anxiety.。
And God's there saying, "I mean, come here, I love you.。
I'm not even mad at you.。
I mean, what you're experiencing isn't my judgment.。
What you're experiencing is the consequence of what I told you you would get if you did。
that."。
Do you understand that?。
And then I gotta let you know this.。
Sometimes things are just happening and it has nothing to do with your sin.。
You just live in a world, gang, you just need to know this.。
The Bible says you live in a world with sin in it and so sometimes, sometimes things aren't。
gonna work the way that you want them to work.。
And that shouldn't freak you out.。
Just trust me.。
And here's what I would tell you about God.。
And I close with this.。
What you should learn about God is that he really kind of works backwards.。
You would think that the longer you're faithful to God, the better things would go for you。
but what I just need to let you know, that's almost the opposite of what happens.。
Did you hear what I just said?。
The longer that you know that God is good, sometimes the more he lets you live as a testimony。
to others that this world is not your home and that he is awesome still.。
I'll read you one more time from this amazing man that, ask God how long.。
He said this, "God treats new Christians with a special kind of tenderness.。
Much as a parent dotes on a newborn."。
He quotes this other guy who is a new believer, or a very experienced believer rather and。
he says, "I've seen many striking answers to prayer and more than once I've thought。
they were miraculous but they usually come at the beginning of or before even conversion.。
As the Christian life proceeds, they tend to be rarer and rarer.。
The refusals too are not only more frequent, they become more unmistakable, more emphatic."。
Remember Paul?。
Happened to write most of the New Testament.。
Three times I asked God to remove this thorn from me.。
The guy that raised people from the dead, healed people.。
God, just take this thorn from me.。
It never went away.。
C.S. Lewis wrote mere Christianity.。
God, I've waited 50 years to marry and now I'll heal my wife.。
No satellite.。
At first glance, such a suggestion seemed to have it all backwards.。
Shouldn't faith become easier, not harder as Christians progress?。
But as C.S. Lewis points out, the New Testament gives two strong examples just to the opposite,。
Paul and Jesus.。
Does God then forsake just those who serve him best?。
Well, he who served him best of all said near his tortured death, "Why hast thou forsaken。
me?"。
When God became man, that man of all others is least comforted by God.。
At his greatest need, there is a mystery here which even if I had the power, I might not。
have the courage to explore.。
Meanwhile, little people like you and me, if our prayers are sometimes granted beyond。
all hope and probability, had better not draw hasty conclusions to our own advantage.。
The truth is, if we were stronger, we might be less tenderly treated.。
If we were braver, we might be sent with far less help to defend a far more desperate post。
in a far greater battle.。
So here's where I close.。
Sometimes gang, when you're waiting for God to answer, don't get anxious.。
Just remind yourself, "Okay, this one's going to cook a long time it looks like, but I know。
God's good."。
And the way you know God is good is because you can take the most awful moment in human。
history.。
When the kindest one who ever lived, to this day, Buddhists, Hindus, Muslims, Christians,。
even atheists go, "Yeah, Jesus, we have no problem with Jesus."。
The best man who ever lived, there was a moment when he said, "No one's going to take my life,。
but I'm going to lay it down."。
In fact, the guy who just identified him as the Son of God, the Christ, when he said that,。
said, "No, you're not.。
I'm going to stop that.。
I know who you are, you're God in the flesh, but that's a bad plan, Jesus.。
You are not going to die."。
If I had been there, if we had voted, if we took a poll, our hero Jesus that we've been。
walking with is going to go to a cross, what do you think?。
We go, "No, not him.。
Give us anybody but him.。
Let him live.。
It's got to be good for him to live."。
Guess what?。
God said, "No, get behind me."。
That's the thinking of Satan, that it's always ease.。
What God's going to do is show you love.。
He's going to show you grace and he's going to show you mercy.。
If I had been asked what to do in that moment, I would have said, "You cannot go to that。
cross."。
I would have stopped the very thing that led to my great salvation.。
Jesus did go to a cross.。
I guarantee you, on Friday night, I'd have been filled with anxiety, even though he had。
told me that he had this thing in control and that no one was going to take his life.。
He was going to lay it down and take it back up again.。
I guarantee you, Saturday morning, it'd have been tough.。
If I had a godly friend, they would have said, "Todd, he told you three days."。
I guarantee you, Saturday afternoon, I wouldn't have eaten.。
Saturday night, it'd have been really long.。
Sunday morning, I wouldn't even have the courage to go see if my hopes were true.。
I'd have sent the women.。
I mean, if you can take that moment, you can just keep going back.。
God, all I know is in the greatest moment of evil in the history of the world, that。
turned out to be the greatest moment of good.。
That's all I need.。
He tells us that our three days might be this entire life.。
You might be in that wheelchair your entire life.。
It's a lie, girls.。
Let me just tell you this.。
It's a lie if you love God and you're in a good community group and you seek after him,。
that God will eventually bring you a godly man.。
I don't know if that's true.。
You need to quit making that your hope.。
Make your hope in God alone because here's the deal, man.。
The most wonderful man in the world is going to bring you pain.。
There's one promise in the Bible to marriage.。
Do you know what it is?。
Such will have trouble.。
Now, look, there's a lot of blessing that comes from that trouble.。
I'm a big fan of marriage, but marriage is a lousy God.。
Quit waiting for it.。
You should be anxious about one thing, that you today would be indifferent in your love。
and pursuit of Jesus Christ.。
Because in your marriage, you're eventually going to have to find your satisfaction in。
him because that person in some way is not going to be what you want them to be, but。
Jesus will be and he'll allow you out of the overflow of gratitude in your heart to love。
them.。
You see, here's the thing.。
What God wants you to do is to have a Christ-like faith, not just a child-like faith.。
A child-like faith is beautiful.。
A child-like faith is the Lord is my shepherd.。
I shall not want.。
He's a good God.。
I love God.。
A child-like faith is one who says, "God's always good.。
He makes me lie down in green pastures.。
God's always good.。
He leads me beside quiet waters.。
Oh, God's always good.。
He restores my soul.。
Oh, God's always good.。
He guides me in the paths of righteousness.。
I've got a good daddy.。
I love my daddy."。
Right?。
That's a child-like faith and there's nothing wrong with it.。
But I want to tell you something.。
Sometimes you got to go, "It's been a long time since I've been in a green pasture.。
I'm really thirsty."。
This is a Christ-like faith.。
Are you ready?。
This is Psalm 22.。
"My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?。
Far from deliverance are the words of my groaning.。
Oh, my God.。
I cry by day, but you don't answer and by night, but I have no rest.。
You are holy.。
I know you're holy.。
I know you're good.。
I know your word's true.。
I know that disobeying you is a big deal, but I'm on a cross and this is hard."。
And if you keep reading, you find out that he keeps telling God the truth, but he waits。
and he doesn't use his divinity to get himself down off that cross and make it easy.。
He waits there all the way until that last breath heeds and he says, "It is finished,"。
so that you could know that God is good.。
See, he's not upset when you say, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?"。
But you remember, he's never forsaken you.。
It looks like he's forsaken you, but he's never forsaken you.。
And the more you know him, the more sometimes he lets you go through serious seasons of。
hunger and of thirst.。
And you know what he says?。
"That's my boy.。
You watch him.。
That's my boy.。
You know him.。
He is steadfast.。
He is ready.。
He is righteous.。
He is blameless.。
He fears God.。
He shuns evil.。
That's my boy.。
That's faith.。
That's somebody who knows what I look like."。
He won't cave.。
He's not waiting if he's not married by 30, he's going to plug this thing in.。
No, that dude is with me to the end.。
That's my boy.。
And that's a Christlike faith.。
And I'm not promising you, if you're here and you see God, it's going to get easy.。
I'm promising you it might get hard for a while and he will not forsake you and you。
will be glad on that day and you've got no anxiety.。
You've got nothing but a future and a hope and you will hear, "Well done."。
And I got the rest of eternity to convince you that you were right.。
Father, I pray that this group would believe it.。
I pray that this room would come to know you and that their hope and their peace would。
be, Father, in the CV of Jesus' life.。
That they would understand that you don't forsake them.。
It feels like it.。
I thank you, Father, that we in our own and our journal and our crosses, we can yell,。
"Man, God, why does it feel so much like you've forsaken me?"。
But at the end, you are in heaven and we are on earth, so let our words be few and let。
us trust in you, the God who makes no mistakes.。
You've never had to apologize.。
You've never had to go, "I wish I had a do-over."。
And Father, we know as long as we seek first your kingdom and your righteousness, we will。
say the same thing.。
Thank you, Lord, that you're not bothered, that sometimes temptation looks really real。
good to us.。
You know exactly what that feels like.。
I thank you that you haven't left us here alone.。
You've given us your spirit and your word to remind us what is true, and you've even。
given us your people, other people who can run with us and keep reminding us.。
I know it looks like he's forgotten you, but he hasn't.。
Don't you believe it?。
If the cross is the curse of disease at a young age, don't you curse him.。
You use every year of your dying to be faithful to him.。
You sing his praises all the way to the end, because this life is not all there is.。
And so Lord, even in the face of death, we fear not.。
Because at the end we come back to that little childlike faith and we say, "You're my God,。
and you're a good shepherd.。
I will trust in you and I will sing your praises."。
So Father, in our thirsting for quick satisfaction in the world, may we quickly turn it to your。
word which says, "Thirst for me.。
Thirst for me, for you are the one that satisfies."。
We are thirsty, Lord.。
We pray just like you taught us to pray, that you'd come quickly.。
But until you come, help us to be faithful.。
Use an increasing number of godly men in this room to encourage others to wait with me.。
Help me wait.。
Help me remember that you are good.。
For your glory, that I might be free from despair.。
That the world might know that you're a God worth singing of, in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
[MUSIC]。
