Good evening and welcome to the porch. I'm here to guide you on your journey through the complex。
world of relationships. Can we cue some music please? From our friendships to our romantic。
endeavors, we'll explore our family bonds, estranged relationships, work dynamics, and。
perhaps even the relationship with oneself. So how do we relate? To answer this, we'll look to。
scripture and find exactly what God has to say about our relationships. This is, after all,。
the Relationship Series. Porch, how we doing? We doing okay tonight? It's great to see you. It's。
great to be back. We are in the Relationship Series. If this is your first time being a part。
of the series and you're not too late, we've got a little bit more for you. Dallas, you look good.。
Grateful you're in the room. But everybody that's tuning in online, like we love that God is doing。
something special here in our city, but he's doing something special all over the globe.。
Literally, the stories we get, they're crazy. And so we're grateful that y'all would trust us。
with your evening and you would be a part of what God is doing here. Special shout out to。
Porch Live, Dayton, Wheaton, and Des Moines. All right, to start things off, I want to play a。
little game with all of you. Does that sound okay? So everybody stand up and look around at the。
people standing to your left and your right. We're going to be doing a lot of this here in this。
game. So it's good just to prove to one another that you are actually capable of standing up.。
Now everybody sit down for me. You just proved you could do it and now I'm going to put you to。
the test. I want you to stand up. Oh man. This is going to be exposing for some of you. I want。
you to stand up if you think Crocs are actually an acceptable form of fashion. That's bold.。
You're bold. All right, sit down for me. Sit down. You can judge and appeal to your friends。
later on. I want you to stand up if you actually believe cats are better companions than dogs.。
Loud and proud down here in the front. Our feline friends, Mr. Ben Craychee as well. All。
right. It's getting a little hotter in here. We'll keep turning up the heat. I want you to。
stand up if you own an Android instead of an iPhone. The few and the proud. There they are. You。
know, I'll give it to my Android users. We always know our Android users because they simply。
make themselves known. They think they have something to brag about but we all know that's。
not the case. I want you to stand up if you use Apple Music instead of Spotify. Oh my gosh.。
Micaela, no! Oh no. Okay, okay, okay, okay. For my Apple Music users, I have to ask, I have to。
ask, why? It is inferior to Spotify. It absolutely is. All right, stand up if you prefer working。
from the office than working at home. I'm already standing up but I'm like, I'm trying to get up。
as much as I can because I love being in the office. I love being around people. All right.。
Grab a seat. Last one. Last one. And this one is really big. So hey, I need you all to lean in。
and really engage with this one because we're going to turn a corner into something really。
significant here. I need you to stand up if you're actually single and ready to mingle. No,。
no, no, I'm just kidding. Don't do that. Don't do that. That is one opportunity here at the。
porch but we are about other more significant things than that. Okay. Here's why we did that.。
We just learned a lot about one another, right? You just learned where your peers stand on some。
pretty important subjects. You were able to size them up and you were able to stack yourself in。
comparison to them. And while this was super lighthearted and it was a really good time,。
here's the thing. Oftentimes, comparison is anything but lighthearted and fun.。
It's interesting. If you go and you read the research, studies show that roughly 10% of。
normal human thought is comparative in nature, which if you look at the average human life,。
which would be roughly 77 years, 10% of 77 years equates to five years of total life.。
That means five years of your life you are spending comparing yourself to other people.。
I don't know how that sits with you. That's alarming to me. Like the thought that I'm giving。
up five years of myself to comparing me to some of you jokers? No, thank you. You know what,。
I'm just kidding. This is the way that we work though. Like hardwired under the heart of humanity。
is this need to stack up against other people to measure ourselves against one another. And the。
world knows it. Like the world knows that this is a meaningful way in which we relate to one。
another. Like we live in a society that not only accepts comparison as a way in which we interact,。
but actually has commodified, commercialized comparison through celebrity culture that's。
telling you how you're supposed to live your life or self-help books that are trying to。
advocate your personal development or a specially manicured social media feed. That way you can。
see who it is that you should be stacking yourself alongside. Our world knows that this is something。
that is meaningful for us. And truthfully, we don't need to look at the culture to realize that。
comparison is a problem. We just need to look at ourselves. Like some of you can relate to the fact。
that that guy at the office, like he got the promotion even though he wasn't even trying for。
it. Like you were the one that were staying late and burning the midnight oil and making sure the。
candle wick was lit at both ends and giving as much as possible because you really wanted to。
get into that position to achieve that promotion. Others of you have a friend who was totally。
content in their season of singleness. You know, like man, I'm fully and undividedly devoted to。
this season of my life and chasing after the Lord. And yet for whatever reason, God just set this。
dude in my life. And now we're dating despite the fact that you have been doing all the same。
things and you want so badly to be in a relationship as well. Others of you, you know that group went。
and they had an amazing weekend together because you weren't with them. You were sitting at home。
and you saw it on Instagram. Others of you have tried so hard to get recognition for your good。
works, whether it's at the office or it's amongst your family or it's amongst your peers. And yet。
no one recognizes you despite you work so hard. They recognize other people.。
Like, can we just level with ourselves for a second and acknowledge the fact。
that comparison is a problem? Like what it does is it causes us to look at the success of someone。
else and measure ourselves against it. And in the process of measuring ourselves against it,。
what we often find is we're embroiled with our failure. We see a deep sense of inadequacy.。
So we find that we're angry or we're anxious or we're self-loathing or we have a lowered。
self-esteem. We become jealous. We're bitter. We're insecure. We have a sense of hate for someone else.。
Comparison is a dangerous thing. There's no question about it. And there's no question。
that we're all engaging with it. It's a part of the regular human experience.。
So what do we do with it? Like if we're going to come in contact with it, and not even just tomorrow,。
but before the night's over, what do we do with it? How do we navigate the waters of comparison。
in a way that is riddled with wisdom and is informed by the word? That's what I want to。
do with us tonight. That's what I want to walk us through over the course of our evening together.。
I want to show you how you can overcome comparison in your life. And the place that we're going to do。
it is we're going to do it in the gospel of John. So if you have a Bible, you can grab it.。
John chapter 21 is where we're going to be. That's the very last chapter in the gospel of John. We've。
been working through the relationship series here at The Porch. And what we've been doing over the。
course of this series is that we've been looking at different relational categories. We've been。
looking at dating and marriage and friendship and working relationships and estranged relationships.。
We've been looking at all manner of different relationships we find in our life. And yet this。
evening we decided that we didn't just want to look at a relational category. We wanted to look。
at a way in which we often relate to each other. And in comparison, it really is universal. Like。
it makes its way into every single category that we have talked about throughout this series.。
And the reason we're in John chapter 21 is we see a story of comparison where Jesus interacts with。
a guy that really should know better. You see, what we find in chapter 21 of John's gospel is。
that Jesus has died for the sins of the world and he's risen from the grave. And he's in that。
intermittent period before he ascends to the right hand of the father, where he's sort of。
working a 40-day masterclass with the disciples. He's showing them, "Hey boys, this is how we're。
going to save the world. Here's your mission. Get up there and do it." He's working them through。
this 40-day class. And what he's doing is he's engaging specifically in our story tonight with。
a guy by the name of Peter. By the time we come to the story we see with Peter, Peter has already。
been restored into right relationship with Jesus. If you don't know Peter's story, he was one of。
Jesus's inner three, one of his best friends, one of his guys. And yet when the going got tough,。
Peter got going. He denied Jesus three times at the point of his arrest. He said he had nothing。
to do with the man and then he rebelled. And he was ostracized from the disciples. And yet Jesus。
comes to him in chapter 21 and he restores him to relationship. Peter wasn't just riding the bench,。
he was off the team. And yet Jesus comes to him and says, "Hey man, I've got your uniform,。
it's clean press, it's ready for you. Got a new role, got a new mission. Let's get back in the。
game together." And so that's where we find ourselves here in our story. And this is just。
an aside, but what you need to know is Peter in this moment has just received a massive dispensing。
of God's grace in his life. And what it's done for him is it's brought him closer to God than he was。
before. You see, your failures will bring you closer to Jesus than your successes ever will.。
And some of you just need to know that. That's not even a part of the lesson. That's for free.。
And yet it's important to know that Peter has just received so much grace as we come to verse 18.。
It says this, "Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and。
walk wherever you wanted. But when you're old, you will stretch out your hands and another will。
dress you and carry you where you do not want to go. This he said to show by what kind of death。
he," talking about Peter, "was to glorify God. And after saying this, he said to him, 'Follow me.'。
Peter turned and he saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following him, the one who had also leaned。
back against him during the supper and had said, 'Lord, who is it that's going to betray you?'。
That disciple's name is John. When Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, 'Lord, what about this guy?。
What about this man?' And then Jesus said to him, 'If it's my will that he remain until I come,。
what is that to you? You follow me.'" You see, Jesus has just reinstated Peter. He's confirmed。
his life's purpose. He's reminded him, "Hey man, you're not only going to be a part of the church,。
you're going to be a massive player in leading the church." And then he takes a hard left into。
prophesying his martyrdom and telling him, "Hey man, you're going to die," which is probably not。
great conversational etiquette. And yet Jesus just wants to level with him. He wants to tell him,。
"Hey, you're going to die." But he not only tells him that he's going to die, he tells him how he's。
going to die. And it's not purposeless. Like we may read that and think, "Golly, man, did Jesus。
have no social tact, no awareness whatsoever?" I promise he did because he has a purpose in。
speaking to Peter about his own crucifixion. He's prophesying, "Hey, you're going to one day stretch。
out your arms and they will clothe you themselves. They will lead you where you do not want to go.。
You will be crucified as I myself have been crucified." And Jesus called the shot. In AD 64,。
Peter was crucified. History shows that he was crucified upside down because he didn't think。
himself worthy to be crucified in the same manner as his king. And yet what we find in this story。
is it rattles Peter a little bit, as it would any of us. You learn that you're going to die。
and it's going to be painful. It would probably induce some fear. It would probably lead you to。
worry and wonder, "God, what are you doing in my life? I just got reconciled with you. We're on a。
good page together again. What are you saying that I'm going to go to my death?" And yet Jesus has。
purpose in it because he wants Peter to know, "Hey, I am calling you to something amazing.。
I've got great purpose for your life. Great purpose, it requires great faith.。
But before you can be filled with great faith, I need to empty you of your fear first."。
That's why he evokes his fear. This is what Jesus will do. He will point out the things in our。
lives which we fear because he knows comparison feeds on fear. Comparison feeds on fear, which is。
our first point. It's unique that way because in every other area of life, we run from what we fear.。
But when it comes to comparison, we run to what we fear. Think about it like this. If you fear。
you're not skinny enough, then you need to watch what you eat. If you fear you're not successful。
enough, then you need to work harder. If you fear that you're not dateable enough, then you need to。
lower your standards. If you fear you're not pretty enough, then maybe you need to show some skin. Do。
you see it? When it comes to comparison, we follow what we fear, which is why it's anything but。
coincidental that right here in the face of Peter's fear, Jesus tells him, "Hey, don't follow。
your fear. You follow me. You come with me. You don't focus on that. I know that that's scary.。
I know that causes you concern. Don't focus on that. You focus on me. Keep your eyes right here.。
You follow after me, Peter, because the one you're focusing on is the one that you're going to follow。
after." I remember growing up, my family, we would go snow skiing. Anybody snow skiing here?。
We would go snow skiing, and we would always play follow the leader. It's been fun. My nieces and。
nephews are growing up now, and we take them out there, and we do the same thing. And the object。
of the game was whoever's in the lead, you follow them, as the name implies, follow the leader.。
And you do whatever they do. If they make a turn, you make a turn. If they move through trees,。
you move with them. If they decide to ski backwards, then you better turn around and。
ski backwards as well. If they're pulling 360s, you need to spend some 360s yourself. You follow。
them however and wherever they go, because that's how you win. Like the secret to winning follow the。
leader is you keep your eyes dead set on the leader in front of you, and you faithfully follow them。
wherever they lead. We're supposed to do the same thing with Jesus. The words "follow me," if you。
read through the gospels, they appear 13 different times. And every time someone hears the words。
"follow me," there's a common theme associated to that command. You're going to have an immediate。
detachment from self-interest. Like you're going to set aside your self-interest in pursuit of。
something different. People gave up their livelihood, they left their homes, they quit。
their jobs, they abandoned all comfort to follow Jesus, which sounds really crazy. Amen? Like can。
any of us agree with that? Like golly, I don't know that any invitation in life is going to be。
worthy of that, of me abandoning everything I've worked hard for, of all the family that I dearly。
love, of all the comfort that I so enjoy to have. Like I don't know that anything is going to be。
worth giving up. And yet what you see, and this is what's crazy, when you follow Jesus,。
the reward of gaining him is far greater than anything you give up.。
And so Jesus is calling Peter, "Hey, I'm going to give you so much more than you will ever be。
able to gain on your own, but it's going to require you to follow after me. You're going。
to have to detach yourself from some things you care about." Jesus says the same idea in Matthew。
16. He says, "Then Jesus said to his disciples, 'If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself。
and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever。
loses his life for my sake will find it.'" What's comparison say instead? If the voice of truth is。
saying, "Hey, if you lose your life, you'll find it," comparison's voice is going to say instead,。
"Hey, you're actually losing life. So you don't need to give more life away. You need to get out。
there and find some life. Like you need to hustle after it. You're getting left behind. You better。
rise and grind, baby. Like you better get to work because you have some deficiencies in your life。
and you're the one that's going to have to make up the difference." This is what comparison would。
say to you. Like you need to accumulate some followers on Instagram. You need to get some。
more matches on Hinge. You need to get some more travel scheduled on the calendar. You need to get。
another promotion at work. You need to, whatever it is, you need to accumulate for yourself because。
you're deficient as you are. You're not enough as is. And so I guess we better find a way to make。
you into that much more of what you think you need to be. That's what comparison would say.。
And yet what's crazy about comparison is yes, it's a fear-based response, but it's a really bad。
fear-based response. Like a good fear-based response leads you away from danger, but that's。
not what comparison does. Comparison doesn't lead you away from danger. It puts you in danger. It's。
really bad advice. It's like me saying, "There are few vitamins in cookies, and therefore you should。
eat many of them." That's horrible advice. Like I'm promising you a path to hell, and yet what's。
going to happen is unhealth. That's how this works. That's what comparison's promise looks like.。
So what do we do when comparison comes creeping? We follow Jesus. It's that simple. We follow him.。
Like we identify where we feel secure, and rather than make up the difference on our own,。
we look at the one who made up the difference on his own. That's what we do. We follow that man.。
We don't follow after any other. We stop being fearful. We start being faithful. Faithful with。
where God has me. Faithful with what God's calling me to do. Faithful to speak what God's asking me。
to say. Faithful to do whatever it is he wants me to do with my life. Because if my life。
is hidden with Christ, then my life is no longer my own. It's Christ that lives in me.。
He gets to do with me what he wants. He gets to lead me where he wishes. I will be faithful to。
follow that man. You see, we have to make sure we're following the right person. So porch,。
who are you following right now? Who are you following? And here's the thing, like I felt this。
as I was preparing to teach this message. There's nothing about comparison I can tell you that you。
may not already well know. Like this is an old idea. Sure, I want to present it in a new way,。
and yet my goal is just to take this concept of comparison, put it back on the table for us to。
consider and call you to take responsibility where it has run amok in your life. That's what I want。
to do tonight. That's what I'm striving after. And so if you're following after the wrong person,。
then the responsibility is yours to change what's in your power to change.。
So what does that look like? Well, for some of you, it means you need to go into your。
social media and you actually need to consider who is it that I'm following. And let me remove。
anyone that I'm following that I don't meaningfully interact with on a regular basis,。
because I'm not following them because they're a friend. I'm following them because they're a goal.。
And my goal is the upper call of Christ. Let me get rid of that. For others of us, it means。
slashing our shopping budget in half, and we need to quit liking to know it.。
And we just need to choose instead, like to know him.。
Others of us, we need to really ask the question as we consider the photos we post on Instagram,。
like, man, why am I posting whatever I'm posting? Because you know, you don't need to。
coincidentally place your engagement ring in every single photo.。
Like you don't need to carefully craft your picture so that that name brand is included,。
is included so everybody else can see you can't actually associate with that sort of wealth.。
Some of us, it's not social media or public perception at all. It's private perception.。
Like rather than worrying about the real that's going across your social media,。
you need to think about the real that's playing through your mind. And you need to consider the。
fact that the conversation you had with that person, you don't need to keep replaying it over。
and over and over again. Like you can let those things go, you can move on, even though you think。
that you said something stupid or you sounded really dumb or you wish you could take that thing。
back because now what are they going to think of me? Like I'm never going to be able to associate。
with those specific people. And some of us here, we're long-time believers.。
And the topic of comparison comes up and we think we're good, man. Like I already followed Jesus,。
that command, I'm already registering with that. If you're here and you think you're safe from。
comparison because you already follow Jesus, let me just level with you. If Peter's not safe,。
you're not safe either. We see it as we keep going. It says in verse 20, "Peter turned and he。
saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following him, the one whom had also leaned back against him。
during the supper. And it said, 'Lord, who is it that's going to betray you?' And when Peter saw。
him, he said to Jesus, 'Lord, what about this man?'" Not even one verse after Jesus looks at Peter。
and is like, "Hey, follow me." Peter's like, "But what about that guy?" Like we're not even a verse。
away. And if you know Peter at all, this is true to form. This is so on brand. Like he turns around。
and what it means is he turns around is that his eyes stop focusing on following Jesus and they。
start focusing on following someone else. And it sets him up for a world of hurt. It puts him in。
a position where he's less interested in what Jesus is calling him to do. And he's more interested in。
what Jesus is calling John to do. And it jeopardizes their friendship. Because here's the。
second point. Comparison, it turns friends into rivals. Comparison turns friends into rivals.。
Like these two guys, they're good friends. I already said they were part of Jesus's inner。
circle and they had some really meaningful moments in life together. Like if you track what Peter and。
John, the two of them are explicitly a part of, what you see is these are the guys that, I mean,。
they fished together and then they got called into Jesus's ministry together. And then they saw。
Jesus, the man, become Jesus, the son of God, as he transfigured before them. And then they made。
their way to the garden of Gethsemane and they prayed with Jesus. But that happened after they。
had actually gone together to prepare the Passover feast that they would share with Jesus. And then。
after Jesus died and he rose, they raced each other to the tomb. And then we find them here。
in this moment right now, where they're engaging with the resurrected Lord. And if you keep tracking。
their story, they have more moments like this. Like it just keeps going on and on and on and on.。
Like this is the stuff that friendships are made of. They're part of God's work in the world.。
They're making a difference alongside each other. And yet in the face of comparison,。
all of it is jeopardized. All of it is risked in a moment.。
And comparison stands to do the same thing to you and your friends.。
Like it is laughable how quick in this story, Peter goes from following Jesus to following。
someone else. And yet this happens to us too. Like rather than following God's plan for our own lives,。
we start following God's plan for other people's lives. Like if you've ever been a social media。
sleuth, you know, you know somebody is dating that guy or that girl, or they're actually associated。
with that specific person that man, he would love to be associated with that person. They're so。
famous. They're so popular. They've got so much influence. How did they get connected to that。
person? Or you actually saw that person was involved with that group of people. And did you。
see the concert that they went to? That was amazing. Or man, they took that trip all together. God,。
that was awesome. If you've ever been that person and you were able to social media stalk your way。
into someone else's life, you have just proven my point that you are far more interested in living。
someone else's life than living the life that God has given you. We are all prone to this,。
especially in our digital age. We're so much more interested oftentimes in what God is doing。
somewhere else than what he is doing right here at hand. Why? Why is that the case? Well,。
according to psychology and the social comparison theory, it's one of two reasons. Very simply,。
we compare ourselves either because we want to feel better about ourselves or because we want。
to motivate ourselves to improve. Which if I could just boil that down for you, it just simply means。
that we look at other people's lives because we're not happy with our own. Like all comparison。
with others is rooted in a discontentment with myself. That's where comparison comes from.。
Like you don't actually care if that guy gets the job. You just care that you didn't get the job.。
You actually don't care that she looks the way she does. You just care that you don't look。
the way that she does. You actually don't care that they took that trip. You just care that。
you didn't get to take that trip. And so here's the thing, Porch, lean in with me on this.。
Your issue is not with them. Your issue is with him. And so if you have a complaint,。
you need to take it with the big guy. You've got to process it with God Almighty。
because your life is your life because it's the life he wants you to live.。
But here's the danger of comparison. If we don't take it up with him, if we don't deal with God,。
then we will deal with others. And we will take the friends in our lives and we will turn them。
into rivals. That's why James says this in chapter four. He says, "You desire and you do not have.。
So what do you do? You murder. You covet. You can't obtain. So you fight and you quarrel.。
You do not have because you do not ask." I love that he puts it on the end. It just feels like。
a weird, like inclusion to the back end of that verse. Like you do not have because you do not。
ask. What's he saying? He's like, "Hey, all the fighting, all the quarreling, all the anger and。
frustration you feel towards each other, all of that is the product of you not talking to him。
about it." That's where it comes from. You're talking amongst yourselves when in reality,。
you should be talking to him. You don't have because you don't ask because you haven't gotten。
honest with the Lord. Like it's alarming. Like we will fight others and tear them down just because。
we don't have what they do. Like that's the nature of coveting. What's coveting? Coveting。
is a fully grown comparison. That's what comparison grows up to when it gets big, kids.。
It turns into coveting. And what happens in a coveting type of relationship is I not only want。
what you have, I resent you for having it. I hate you for having it. And we see this everywhere.。
God, just look at the news right now. Like political candidates taking cheap shots and。
low blows. Scroll through Twitter and you'll see athletes ripping each other apart. You can go and。
you can read the comment section. You'll find trolls around everywhere. We become a hater,。
which by definition, according to hip hop historians, is actually ascribed to someone。
that's jealous of someone else. That's what it means. Comparison turns friends into rivals.。
It's turning Peter against John. And it's more than likely turn some of you against your own.。
So what do we do when that happens? Well, think about the instructions that Jesus gives Peter。
right before we get to this section. Again, we didn't read it, but he looks at him and as he's。
restoring him, he says, "Hey, do you love me? Do you love me? Do you love me?" Asks him three times.。
And every time he asks, Peter says, "You know that I do." And Jesus' response is, "Then feed my sheep.。
Do you love me? Then feed my sheep." What does that mean? Love my people, serve my people,。
help my people. Like it's odd for a shepherd to see a sheep that's struggling and choose。
to revel in their misery. That's a weird thing. Or it's strange for a shepherd to see a sheep。
thriving and hate them for the green grass they eat off of. That is odd. That doesn't make any。
sense. And to the watching world, it is odd when the people of God that claim to love their Lord。
do not love one another. It's strange. It's weird. It's odd because it's not what we've been called。
to. We're supposed to love one another. Romans 12 says it like this, "Rejoice with those who rejoice。
and weep with those who weep. Live in harmony with one another. Don't be haughty, but associate。
with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight. Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to。
do what is honorable in the sight of all." Do what's honorable. Like that's the mark of a true。
Christian. You do what's honorable. So when someone actually achieves something significant,。
it is not honorable to hate them for their achievement, to wish ill behind their back。
because they actually found themselves in some sort of favor that they may not have sought after。
on their own. Like it's odd. That's not honorable. That's jealous. Like if you get upset because。
someone gets ahead, that's not honorable either. That's jealousy. If you delight in the misfortune。
of someone else, that's not honorable. That's jealousy. And it looks weird on God's people.。
We are called to celebrate with those who celebrate. We rejoice with those who rejoice. We。
hurt with those who hurt. We weep with those who weep. That is our response to one another. We。
serve each other like that. I remember my sophomore year, I just made the conscious decision. It was。
a defining moment where I made the call that I was going to be less worried about whether or not。
people loved me. And I was going to be far more concerned whether or not I loved them.。
And you know what happened? Things started changing for me. Like my confidence grew.。
My friends started to increase. I started to get access into things that I had not had access into。
before. I started to have fun that I wasn't a part of previously. Like I started to find myself。
enjoying the kind of life that I wished I had enjoyed before. Why? Was it because I gained the。
system? I know how this works. I need to give them a little bit so they'll give me a little bit back.。
Quid pro quo. This for that. No, that's not what I was doing. I just started caring for people.。
And listen, this is not an example of my perfection. Follow me as I follow. That's。
not what I'm doing. But I am just telling you, as your care for others goes up,。
your comparison to others will go down. If you start thinking about how you can serve others,。
you'll stop worrying about whether or not you're getting served. You start worrying about whether。
or not others feel enjoyed, you'll stop worrying about whether or not you are enjoyable. Because。
you feed sheep, just as Jesus commanded Peter. Loving others, it liberates us from comparing。
to others. It saves our friends from becoming our rivals. But that's not all. Our third point is in。
these final few verses. Look at 21 with me. When Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, "Lord, what about。
this man?" And Jesus said to him, "If it's my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you?。
You follow me." So the saying spread abroad among the brothers that this disciple was not to die,。
yet Jesus did not say to him that he was not to die. But if it's my will that he remain until I。
come, what is that to you? Third and final point that we need to learn if we're going to overcome。
comparison is we need to know that comparison will rob you of joy. Comparison will rob you of joy,。
which you've heard before. You're a smart bunch. You know comparison is the thief of all joy.。
And the reality is the Bible would agree with that sentiment. While it's subtle in this text,。
it's nonetheless true that so long as Peter is trapped in comparison, he will never experience。
the kind of joy he longs for. Why is that? Because joy is found in one place and one place alone,。
and that is with the person of Jesus. If I am following after someone else,。
then I am no longer following after Christ, which means I'm no longer following after my joy. I will。
not find joy anywhere else. You know this. Look at your own life. If you trace those behaviors。
where you seem to find some sense of sensory satisfaction and momentary pleasure and delight,。
it always fades. It always abates, and you always have to return. You know it to be true.。
But with Christ, that's not the case. And so Jesus is looking at Peter, and he's like,。
"Don't worry about him. Follow me." It's easy to read this and to think, "Man,。
Jesus is pretty irritated." That's how I read it. Did you all read it that way? Like, "Man,。
Jesus is really annoyed with Peter. He's the kid that won't take out the trash, and he has to be。
told over and over and over again." How many times do I have to tell you, Peter? Come on, man.。
Get on board with what I'm trying to do here. And listen, I don't know if Jesus is irritated or。
isn't irritated, but what I do know is Jesus is full of compassion. And that's what we should。
read into this text. Because as he looks at Peter, he says, "Hey, why are you worried about my plans。
for his life? I've got plans for yours. Why are you worried about what I'm doing with John? I'm。
going to do something with you. Don't worry about my purposes for him, Peter. I've got purposes for。
your life. I'm doing something significant. I want to take you somewhere special. I'm going to make。
something great of my glory through your life. Trust me. Walk with me. Follow me." And he's saying。
the same thing to some of us here. Some of us are so ensnared to comparison, and yet where comparison's。
voice wants to lead you astray, compassion's voice is saying, "Come here where joy and delight and。
fullness of life is found. It's with me. So walk with me." Jesus doesn't want Peter to be so。
mesmerized with John's life that he misses his own, and he doesn't want us to miss ours either.。
Because here's the crazy thing about comparison. When we're comparing ourself to someone else,。
when we're observing their life, yes, we are not truly able to live our own, but where we。
wish to have what they have, we miss what God has already given. And I promise the gifts of God in。
your life, they're better than you think. They're deeper than you've already delved to find. They're。
richer than you dare dream they may be. He's that good. He really truly is. Call his bluff and see。
if he won't surprise you. He's telling you, "Come with me. I'm where joy is found." Think about the。
greatest showman. The entire movie is about what? It's about the pursuit of one P.T. Barnum that。
desperately wants to be associated with a people that he is not naturally associated with. He wants。
to be a part of the upper class, like the ruling elite, the socialites. I want to be up there. And。
so what does he do? He lives his entire life to get to that end. And what you find, spoiler alert,。
is he achieves that end and there's no joy there. None. He loses all joy. This guy was bursting with。
life. And then you see he finds himself in the halls of power and he's miserable. His family's。
disheveled. His life is falling apart because he wasn't living the life God gave him. He was living。
someone else's life. And what you find at the end of the movie is after he hits rock bottom and。
everything is stripped away from him, the people that God had given him originally were still there。
with him. And his joy returned because he was back to living the way God wanted him to be.。
This is the invitation on the table for you. Don't fall prey to comparison.。
Instead, walk with Jesus. You see, to be ensnared by comparison is to be enslaved to dissatisfaction.。
Like comparison is always discouraging because someone inevitably ends up on。
bottom. But when we stop focusing on what we don't have and we start focusing on what we do have,。
namely that we have Jesus, we find all the joy we've been looking for. Psalm 1611 says,。
"You make known to me the path of life in your presence, God, there's fullness of joy。
at your right hand where Christ Jesus sits our pleasures forevermore." Psalm 107.9, "For he。
satisfies the longing soul." Do you have a longing soul? He'll satisfy it. "The hungry soul he fills。
with good things." Psalm 63, 5-6, "My soul will be satisfied as with fat and rich food, and my mouth。
will praise you with joyful lips when I remember you upon my bed and meditate on you in the watches。
of the night." Friends, we have every reason to be grateful because this is true. And listen to me,。
I know that some of you are here tonight and you're desperately trying to hold fast to this truth.。
You know, my response as I walk with God is I should be grateful.。
But it's so hard given what I have. It feels like I'm so unseen, I'm so unheard, I feel lost and。
alone. And so I know I'm supposed to be grateful. I should rejoice. And yet knowing full well that's。
what I should be, I feel like a fraud. I feel like a fake. I feel like a hypocrite. Can I just。
encourage you if that's you here in the room, gratitude is a state of being more than a state。
of feeling. It's a state of being more than a state of feeling. If you are in Christ Jesus,。
then your being, the very essence of your identity is put you in a position where gratitude is。
possible. And I'll level with the rest of you, if you don't know him, then your state of being is。
one where gratitude is impossible. True gratitude, unfettered joy, it's found nowhere else but in。
this man. Friends, when we read words like this from Jesus as less harsh and more compassionate,。
we can feel that same voice speaking to us tonight. Like what's it to you if he has more。
favor with your boss than you? Like what's it to you if she has the kind of life you've always。
wished for? What's it to you if they are in a loving dating relationship and you can't seem。
to find someone? What's it to you if they're more popular even though they're less godly?。
What's it to you? You follow me. I'm the satisfier of life. I'm the giver of full joy.。
I'm the one that will leave you wanting nevermore. You follow me, trust me, walk with me,。
and see the kind of joy, the fullness of life I will give you. Because comparison will rob you of。
joy, but my compassion, it stands ready to offer it without end. How do we know that this is all true?。
Because Jesus Christ has proven this is the case. Like where comparison feeds on fear,。
Christ's compassion has freed us from fear. When we were the enemies of God, all of us lost and。
gone astray in our sin, dejected from his presence and separated forevermore, Jesus said that is not。
satisfactory for me. I will do whatever it takes to get you back, to pull you close, to be reunited。
in right relationship with you, and so I will step in and where comparison would lead you off in fear,。
I will lead myself to you and bring you back to me where I am. Where comparison turns friends。
into rivals. Christ's compassion has turned rivals into friends. He's taken those that hated God and。
he has brought them in and made them lovers of God. He has taken the lonely and the lost and he's made。
them sons and he's made them daughters for those that see his life and see he is born the full。
consequence of my sin. He rose from the dead so that I might have life and life forevermore should。
I place my faith in him. And where comparison robs you of joy, tonight friends, Christ's compassion。
stands ready to offer it to you forevermore. Do you want joy? Then don't look anywhere else.。
Look to him because he's been looking for you for so long. Let me pray for us. God we love you.。
Thankful God for an evening to sit in your word. So grateful God that there's not a single soul。
here tonight that is too far gone, that has done too much wrong, that is filled with deficiencies。
you God cannot fill through your son. I pray Lord, like I want my friends to experience the kind of。
joy I know you give. Not just because I can reason with it theologically or I can point。
to it experientially but God I have felt it personally.。
Please Lord for those here that feel insufficient, inadequate, not enough as they already are,。
would they look to Jesus and see one that says you're exactly as I want you.。
The good, the bad, and the ugly, the most cringe-worthy parts of yourself,。
they could not keep me from you and they will not keep me from you now.。
We love you God. It's in Christ Jesus name we pray. Amen.。
