[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Porch, how we doing? We doing OK tonight?。
Great to see you.。
You look good as always.。
Hey, I'm really eager for where the Lord is taking us。
this evening.。
But before we get into it, I do want。
to give a special shout out to all of Porch Live。
that is joining us from all over the nation.。
We genuinely believe-- and I'm going to speak right。
into the camera here for a minute--。
that God can meet with anyone, anytime, in any place,。
including you.。
And so we're so glad that you would tune in with us here。
this evening.。
Special shout out to Porch Live Des Moines, Porch Live Boise,。
and Porch Live Scottsdale.。
So glad that y'all are joining us here。
and with what God's doing.。
Well, when I was in high school, our youth group。
would take a backpacking trip to Colorado。
every couple of years.。
So over the course of my high school time,。
I was able to go on three different trips.。
Now, the first time I went on a backpacking trip,。
I was totally inexperienced.。
I didn't know anything about what I was to expect。
or what it looked like to hike up a mountain.。
You see, I had gone camping before,。
but I'd never been backpacking before.。
And so I was absolutely dependent upon people around me.。
I didn't know what kind of gear to bring。
or what kind of food to pack.。
I showed up, and I just expected people。
to help me along the way.。
But what I found as I showed around。
for my third and final trip, I had a little bit more。
experience under my belt.。
I knew what it looked like to scope out a really good campsite,。
how to predict and endure the elements.。
I knew what gear to bring.。
I knew exactly what it looked like to make your way up。
an ideal trail.。
I could strategically map myself up a mountain.。
I felt like my days of being a novice to the trail。
were behind me.。
And I was at last one with the wilderness.。
When you go backpacking, there's a variety of things。
that you need to make sure you bring with you.。
The normal, everyday, standard packing list.。
You need things like a rain jacket, a sleeping bag.。
You need a beanie to put on 'cause it may be cold。
in the mornings and the evenings.。
You need to make sure that you also bring hiking boots.。
And there's just a whole list。
that you need to make sure you have.。
Things that we could probably predict。
if we pass the microphone around.。
We could make sure that we map it all out.。
But one thing that I brought with me。
that was not so standard to the packing list。
is I brought with me a toilet seat.。
Which may feel odd.。
That may feel odd, I know.。
But this was a luxury that I had parted ways with。
in years past.。
And yet this time, in my ingenuity,。
I knew that I could bring one with me.。
That I could actually buy one from the store.。
I could fasten it to a frame.。
I could attach it to my pack。
and I could utilize it with dual functionality.。
It could be my lawn chair when sitting around the campfire,。
as well as my lavatory, whatever nature called.。
I made sure to bring a toilet seat with me.。
Which you might hear and think, man, that is brilliant.。
And my 18 year old self would have tended to agree.。
Except for the fact that it kind of hurt my credibility。
as the mountain man that I aspired to be.。
Because the other wilderness guides,。
the ones that were particularly leading my group,。
they thought I was just trying to be funny.。
They looked at me and they saw something。
that was abnormal to the normal mountain hiking experience.。
And so as they looked upon my outfitting gear,。
they said, man, this doesn't look normal.。
And so my credibility took a shot as did my ego.。
And what I realized is I did look out of place to them。
because you see, it doesn't make sense in their world。
for me to hike up a mountain with something。
so uncharacteristically typical of the experience.。
You see, I had aspired to a new way of life,。
to climbing up this hiking trail.。
But I was carrying along strapped to my pack。
something from my old way of life.。
I had set out into the wild,。
but I was carrying with me a piece of the city.。
Why do I tell you that?。
Because in the same way, when we walk with Jesus,。
we look equally confusing.。
When we claim a new life in Christ,。
but we have a piece of our old self strapped on.。
We walk into the world and people see what we say,。
and yet they look at different aspects of who we are。
and it looks inconsistent.。
It looks confusing.。
It looks funny to the way in which we now claim to live.。
You see Colossians 1:13,。
what Paul unpacked for us in the very first chapter。
of this letter that we've been working through。
is that God has delivered us from the domain of darkness。
and he has transferred us into the kingdom。
of his beloved son.。
He has transferred us, he has transplanted us,。
he has relocated us from one place to another place,。
from death into life.。
In the same way that you would transplant a heart.。
What do you do?。
You take it from a dead body。
and you put it into a living body.。
So has Christ done with us.。
He has taken us from a dead set of circumstances。
and he has moved us into a living set of circumstances.。
And because that's true,。
there's a way in which we should live.。
Like our whole life should characteristically,。
fundamentally look different。
and there should be nothing about us。
that is consistent with our old way of life.。
Instead, we should be moving forward。
in a manner that accords with who he is himself.。
So the question for us tonight is what does that look like?。
And how do we know if in fact we're actually living in it?。
That's the question we're addressing.。
And in order to do it,。
we're gonna be working through Colossians chapter three.。
So if you have a Bible, you can grab it.。
Scripture is gonna be on the screens as well.。
So you can look at it there if you want.。
But as we make our way through Colossians chapter three,。
Paul is gonna help us identify, do we look the part?。
Do we look like Jesus?。
If our life is now hidden in him,。
is the way in which we're living consistent。
with that new reality?。
What you also need to know is that tonight,。
we're gonna cover 17 total verses.。
That's a lot of page to cover.。
And so we're gonna be flying over it at 30,000 feet.。
We're not gonna get down into the weeds of it all.。
We'll drip down occasionally。
just to catch a couple of small details,。
but we're gonna fly over it。
because I just want you to catch the main strokes。
of what Paul is writing for us.。
And then lastly, what you need to know。
is that the main point of the book of Colossians,。
which I have hammered and hammered and hammered。
over the last several weeks since we've been in this series。
is that if you want greater maturity in life,。
you need greater clarity of Christ.。
If you want greater maturity in life,。
which so many of us do,。
like we're okay with who we are,。
but we wanna be more.。
Like we wanna aspire to a new level.。
If that's you, if you want maturity,。
then the way you get there is you get clarity.。
And Paul knows it.。
That's why as we've been walking。
through the book of Colossians chapter one and chapter two。
are all about seeing Jesus.。
That's what it's about.。
Colossians one and two, it's all doctrinal in nature.。
Chapter one, it's all about the supremacy of Jesus.。
Chapter two, it's all about the sufficiency of Jesus.。
And yet, as you come to chapter three,。
like a hinge on a door,。
we transition from a doctrinal set of teaching。
to a practical set of teaching.。
Now that you have clarity,。
let's move into maturity.。
That's Paul's point.。
That's where he's going this evening.。
That's what he wants to help us understand.。
And so this is what he says.。
He begins to unpack what it looks like。
to be a mature follower of Jesus.。
He says in verse one,。
"If then you've been raised with Christ,。
seek the things that are above.。
Where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God,。
set your minds on things that are above。
and not on things that are on the earth.。
For you have died and your life is hidden。
with Christ in God.。
When Christ who is your life appears,。
then you also will appear with him in glory."。
Paul starts with what seems like such a simple statement,。
and yet it is loaded with so much truth.。
It's so very profound.。
He says, "If then you've been raised with Christ,。
then set your mind."。
He gives us a conditional statement.。
It's if this has happened, then do this instead.。
You see, what he knows is the implications。
that if we are now raised with Christ,。
we must have died with Christ.。
That's the only way that you can rise.。
You have to die before you can rise.。
That's what he unpacked in Colossians 2, verse 20.。
He said, "If with Christ,。
you die to the elemental spirits of the world."。
Why?。
"As if you were still alive in the world,。
do you submit to regulations?"。
You're no longer alive in the world.。
You're alive in Jesus.。
And since it's the case, you should look like Jesus.。
So what does that look like?。
Well, the first thing he tells us。
is that we should set our minds on the meaningful。
and not the momentary.。
Set your mind on the meaningful and not the momentary.。
If you're doing a Christian fit check,。
if you're walking up to the mirror。
and you're trying to evaluate,。
"Do I look like Jesus?"。
This is the first thing,。
because he set his mind on the meaningful。
and not the momentary, and we should do so similarly.。
You see, we have been transitioned。
from one state of being to a new state of being.。
It was a cause and effect statement.。
If you've been raised, so then set your mind.。
Like we said earlier,。
there was a true transplantation of you。
from a life in the dark to now a life in the light.。
So it's kind of like this.。
When you move into a brand new home,。
that home has absolutely no power.。
And so it's unlivable, right?。
That home has no power until you choose to turn it on.。
And when you turn it on, that house is coursing with power.。
Like now it's alive.。
Now it is livable.。
And yet, how do you know that the house is alive?。
Not just by turning the power on,。
but by turning a light on, by flipping the switch.。
You see, in the same way, salvation is like,。
God has stepped into your life。
and he has turned the power on.。
And yet, as we now walk with Jesus,。
we flip one switch after the next.。
And as we flip those switches,。
what happens is we see evidence of that power in our life.。
We see that we are becoming more like him.。
We see proof of the power in us.。
That's what Paul's talking about.。
That's what he's getting at when he says,。
"Hey, you should increasingly set your mind。
"on things that are above.。
"You should flip one switch and then the next switch。
"and then the next switch.。
"And you should turn all the lights on。
"because you have a power within your midst,。
"within your life that is characteristic of Jesus."。
He uses a word in Greek called phreno.。
Phreno is really interesting.。
That's the word he uses to set your mind.。
It's interesting because it incorporates。
both aspects of thinking.。
It incorporates the cognitive aspect of thinking,。
as well as the instinctive aspect of thinking.。
So what he's saying is that you should set your mind。
in a way where you consider the information。
you have about Jesus,。
as well as the inspiration you have from his life.。
You need facts to know and you need fuel to burn on.。
That's what you should do.。
You should set your mind in such a way。
that that is happening for you.。
So how do you set your mind?。
What does that actually look like?。
You read his word.。
Thank you, Kylan, for telling me something I already knew.。
Now you read his word, not occasionally, but daily.。
And you read his word, not casually, but intentionally.。
And you pray to him, not just heaping up requests.。
Thank you, thank you, thank you.。
Help me, help me, help me.。
I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.。
No, you don't just pray to him your requests.。
You pray to him in such a way。
that simply enjoys the pleasure of his company.。
That just simply chooses to need nothing from him。
other than he himself.。
You ask hard questions.。
Anybody in here ever had a hard question。
that the Bible raised?。
Ask it.。
But don't pawn the work of answering it off。
on someone else's interpretation.。
You go do the work yourself.。
You go spend time and you chase down the answers。
because what's gonna happen。
is you're going to acquire new information about Jesus。
and you're gonna acquire new inspiration about Jesus。
and you're gonna begin to set your mind。
in a way that leads you to consider him as better.。
That's what he's pointing to.。
You're gonna set your mind on the meaningful。
and not the momentary.。
Why does this matter?。
Why does it matter what we pay attention to?。
Because what you behold impacts who you become.。
What you behold impacts who you become,。
which is why so many of us in here,。
we feel a deep sense of instability in our life.。
Like Isaiah 26, three, it says,。
"You keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you。
"because he trusts in you."。
Man, trust sounds great.。
That kind of stability sounds awesome。
because in my life, I don't have any sense of stability.。
Things feel crazy.。
They feel out of control.。
What then are you focusing on?。
You see, often what we do is we focus on the momentary.。
We think, man, if I get that job, if I advance in my career,。
then I'm gonna have the kind of life that I want.。
Or if I get that kind of relationship,。
then I'm gonna get the kind of happiness。
that I've always wanted.。
Or if I get involved into that kind of network。
within that social group,。
I'm gonna afford myself the sort of opportunities。
I've always wanted.。
Or if I work on my appearance and I slave at the gym。
and I scrutinize my diet,。
I can get the kind of acceptance that I've always wanted.。
And yet what you find is you're just as unstable。
and you're just as insecure as you were when you first began.。
Friends, listen to me.。
Like your life is not hidden in your job.。
Your life is not hidden in your relationship.。
It's not hidden in your popularity.。
It's not hidden in the approval of other people.。
It's not hidden in your hobbies。
and experiences and activities.。
It's not hidden in any of those things.。
Your life is meant to be hidden in Christ.。
That's where it's supposed to be found.。
And so if you feel unstable and tossed about。
by the winds and waves of this world,。
it's because you're not focusing on what matters.。
It's because you're not thinking about what's meaningful.。
God, you, you keep him in perfect peace。
whose mind is stayed on you.。
If he trusts in you.。
I remember when my dad taught me to drive a boat.。
He's like, son, the best way for you to drive。
a straight line is to pick something out。
on the shoreline ahead.。
Something that's immovable, that's constant, that's fixed.。
Because if you point yourself at that,。
if you keep your eyes set there,。
you will drive a straight line.。
You will have stability in your course.。
What happens when you don't do that?。
When you look at the waves around。
or the boats that are passing by,。
you swerve all over the place.。
And yet, if I keep my eyes fixed on what's immovable,。
on what's constant, if I keep them fixed on Jesus,。
then I will have stability.。
What you focus on matters.。
So set your mind on what's meaningful.。
Now, some of you, you're in here and you're like, man,。
Kylan, I am.。
I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not。
like succumbing to the pressure of, of, of, of,。
of arriving in my career or, or, or falling prey。
to the opinions and approval of other people.。
I know the dangers of all of those things.。
And I'm not worried about that.。
Like I'm, I'm trying to focus on what's meaningful.。
I am doing everything you said.。
I'm spending time in the word and I'm praying to the Lord.。
And I'm trying to enjoy the sweetness of his company.。
And I am asking hard questions。
and I'm doing the hard work of answering those myself。
and not just pawning the work off on someone else.。
I'm trying to do all of it exactly as you're describing.。
And yet I feel so unstable.。
I feel so tossed about.。
I feel so insecure.。
I do not feel strong.。
I do not feel safe.。
This all feels like a hoax.。
What am I doing wrong?。
Nothing.。
You see, it's not that you've set your mind。
on the wrong thing.。
It's that you've set your mind on the right thing.。
And he wants you to seek him still more.。
Some of the sweetest moments I've had with the Lord。
are in those moments where I'm like,。
God, it's burning up around me.。
Like, help me, please pull me out.。
And yet he won't just chop her on over,。
drop back down, scoop me up and then lead me away.。
You know, the gospel is that he sees me in my pain。
and he gets into it with me.。
So if you're struggling,。
though you have set your mind on what is meaningful,。
take heart.。
He wants to take you deeper.。
He wants to lead you further.。
He wants to show you something better.。
He's looking at you and he's like, I know it's hard.。
Come on, don't give up, don't quit.。
I've not quit.。
I'm still here.。
I'm still chasing.。
I'm still pursuing.。
Come closer, keep pursuing.。
Don't stop now.。
I'm taking you someplace you never knew to ask。
in some place you never dared to dream.。
It will be better.。
Keep coming, keep going.。
Don't give up.。
And what we find is as we do,。
we begin to look more like Jesus,。
which is where Paul continues to go.。
And as we step into verse five,。
we see, he says this,。
"Put to death therefore what is earthly in you,。
sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire,。
and covetousness," which is idolatry.。
"On account of these things, the wrath of God is coming。
in these you too once walked when you were living in them.。
But now, because you have been transferred,。
you must put them all away.。
Anger, wrath, malice, slander, obscene talk from your mouth.。
Do not lie to one another,。
seeing that you have put off the old self。
with its practices and have put on the new self,。
which is being renewed in the knowledge。
after the image of its creator.。
Here, there is not Greek and Jews,。
circumcised and uncircumcised,。
barbarian, Scythian, slave, free,。
but Christ is all and he is in all."。
You see, Jesus, he came to unite。
a diversity of people together.。
And he wants to bring that diversity into maturity.。
Now, there's a lot that we could say about these verses,。
but as I said at the beginning,。
I just want us to catch the main movements。
of Paul's discourse.。
And so what we see here is that he moves。
from an indicative statement to an imperative statement.。
Okay?。
He has helped us to understand our reality.。
He indicated our reality.。
You've been raised with Christ,。
and therefore he then articulates our activity.。
This is so important and not in my notes.。
I just, I want you to catch it,。
'cause this was my fear.。
We're gonna get into a lot of practicals tonight.。
And all of them tell you how to become like Jesus.。
But here's the thing.。
We talked about it last week.。
Your best effort, the good college try,。
all the grit you can muster,。
your own strength will never make you like Jesus.。
No, you are already identified in him。
the minute you place your faith in him.。
You're saved, you're secure, you are one with Christ.。
Your life is hidden in him.。
And it is from there, once the power's on,。
that then you can become like him.。
That's what all this is.。
You don't just employ a bunch of practical steps,。
strategic to-dos to arrive at greater Christlikeness.。
That's not how it works.。
You lean to the power of God and his spirit,。
and he will sanctify you.。
But here's what we know.。
What we know is that he gives us two really strong commands.。
He says, "Hey, I've indicated your reality.。
"You're saved, you're in me, you've been raised with Christ.。
"Now here's an articulated activity, two things.。
"Put to death and put away,"。
which are really strong commands,。
but they're totally appropriate.。
They're absolutely appropriate, why?。
Because if you're no longer dead,。
then you should put to death。
those things from your old way of life.。
And if you're now alive in Christ, if you have a new life,。
then you should not continue observing。
your old way of living.。
You should put it away.。
That's what he's getting at.。
Paul's point is this.。
You can't lead a godly life and follow deadly habits.。
You cannot lead a godly life and follow deadly habits。
because it's contradictory, right?。
If you have a destination that you want to go to,。
and you prepare to set off towards that course,。
and yet your car is in reverse,。
you don't arrive at the finish line,。
you arrive in a wreck, you know?。
You find yourself in a massive heaping mess,。
which is exactly what happens。
when we entertain the very sin。
that Jesus went to the cross to eradicate.。
We find ourselves in a wreck.。
We find ourselves in a mess.。
We find ourselves amidst a deathly circumstance.。
In Paul's command here, he uses the Greek word nekro.。
It's the root word for things like necrotic or necrosis,。
which means simply to render weak or to mortify something.。
It's interesting.。
When I read this initially,。
"Put to death therefore what is earthly within you,"。
it like kind of motivated me, you know?。
I was like, "Where's the dragon and how do I slay it?"。
You know, I was like, "Gonna ride off into battle。
"and conquer that great foe."。
I was ready to catch the scent and hunt it down,。
and yet that's not what he's describing.。
That's not at all what he's articulating.。
You see, this is less a battle royale against your sin,。
and it is instead a daily denial of self through discipline.。
That's what it means to mortify.。
It means to suffocate something, to smother something,。
to squash it out.。
That's how you mortify.。
That's the description he gives here。
when he says, "Put to death."。
John Owen, in "The Mortification of Sin,"。
he talks about it like this.。
He says, "Do you mortify?。
"Do you make it your daily work?。
"Be always at it whilst you live.。
"Cease not a day from this work."。
And here's the line,。
"Be killing sin or it will be killing you."。
Which means that if you're not fighting your sin,。
you're losing to it.。
Because sin never turns a blind eye to you.。
It is always watching, it's always waiting.。
The way the Bible describes it,。
it's like a lion roaming about。
looking for someone to devour.。
Sin is the ultimate apex predator.。
Like if you go and you study apex predators,。
which you don't need to 'cause I've done it a little bit,。
what you find is that apex predators。
have a variety of characteristics and behaviors。
that help them to snatch their prey,。
to seize the weak, to harm the defenseless.。
So great white sharks, they blend into their surroundings.。
They're blue from above and they're white from underneath.。
Crocs, they can virtually submerge their entire self.。
That way they can lie and wait for unsuspecting prey.。
Lions, they strategically, skillfully。
separate the weak from the rest of the herd.。
This is the way in which apex predators work。
and your sin is doing it to you.。
That's why we don't cozy up to it.。
That's why we don't make friends with it,。
entertain it, belittle it.。
We address it for what it is, because it's deadly.。
And it wants to kill you.。
And if you do not kill it first, it may in fact succeed.。
And while we don't have time to get into the detail。
of each of the vices that Paul gives here,。
I'll say this, he gives two different lists。
of five vices each.。
The first list are all sexual in nature.。
Sexual immorality, impurity, passion,。
evil desire, and covetousness.。
The second list he gives, they're all vengeful in nature.。
Anger, wrath, malice, slander,。
and obscene talk from your mouth.。
Which is fascinating, because neither the idea of sex。
nor the idea of vengeance is inherently immoral.。
God actually invented both.。
If you think about it, procreation was his idea.。
We didn't come up with that one.。
Sex was a gift.。
It's a part of his created order.。
And then if you think about vengeance,。
God will avenge any and every wrong at the end of time.。
This is characteristic of him.。
And what's fascinating is because we've been made。
into his image, it's characteristic of us.。
It's not surprising that sparks fly。
whenever you're near that special someone.。
You know, it's what you want.。
It makes sense.。
Sex is a good thing.。
And it's not abnormal that you do feel a deep sense。
of injustice when you see someone wrong。
that did nothing to deserve it.。
These things, they are intrinsically true of us.。
They're a part of the human psyche.。
So if they're not objectively immoral,。
how then do they get off the tracks?。
Like when do they become sinful。
when we're willing to hurt other people to help ourselves?。
That's what every single one of these vices,。
all 10 of them describe.。
They are perpetuated upon other people.。
Think about it.。
Lust is using someone else for my personal gratification。
and revenge is abusing someone else。
for my personal justification.。
And both the source of the sin is selfishness.。
It's self-seeking, which is what Paul unpacks。
when he writes a letter to the Romans.。
He says this in Romans 2, six and eight, he says,。
he, talking about God,。
will render to each one according to his works,。
to those who by patience and well-doing seek for glory。
and honor and immortality, he will give them eternal life.。
It's great.。
But for those who are self-seeking。
and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness,。
there will be wrath and fury,。
which is what Paul means when he gets into verse six.。
He says, it's because of our sin。
that the wrath of God is coming.。
Why?。
Why is that the case?。
Because it is not God's heart to advance himself。
at the expense of other people.。
It is God's heart to advance people。
at the expense of himself.。
Let me say it again.。
Because there was the gospel,。
and it is deserving of rejoicing.。
It is not consistent with God's heart。
to advance himself at the expense of people.。
It is his heart to advance people,。
you and me, at the expense of himself.。
That is what he has done in Christ.。
Jesus, worthy of all glory and honor and praise.。
He gave up his own life.。
He laid himself down.。
He rendered himself as nothing。
that we might be considered something.。
This is what it's pointing towards.。
This is what Paul is saying.。
So if this is the case, we should do the same.。
Yet, why don't we?。
Because I think that we see sin as dreadful。
only when it's detectable.。
We find sin is dreadful only when it's detectable.。
If nobody knows, no big deal, right?。
No harm, no foul.。
That's why you delete your search history。
after you look at things you shouldn't,。
'cause you don't want it to be detected.。
That's why you're nice to their face。
despite the fact that you did。
or said some things behind their back,。
'cause you don't want it to be detectable.。
This is why we tell the half truth。
instead of the full truth,。
because we don't want our sin to be detectable.。
And yet, here's the fact of the matter.。
Just because nobody knows。
does not mean that God doesn't.。
God does know.。
He sees it all.。
But Kylan, what if I'm not harming anyone?。
What if I'm not hurting anyone?。
What if it's just me in my apartment, in my house,。
and I'm just looking at porn by myself?。
That's not hurting anybody.。
What if I'm just having one too many on my own?。
What if I'm just coping to get through the day?。
Like, what if I'm just...。
Listen, you may not be hurting someone else,。
but you are in fact hurting someone,。
and that would be yourself.。
That's why God cares.。
You see, the wrath of God, it's an often mistaken idea,。
because what we think of when we hear the wrath of God,。
we think of a big, judgmental, angry God.。
And yet, he is a loving father.。
The degree to which God loves you。
directly correlates to the degree。
of the hate he has for your sin.。
Think about it like this.。
What father that is good。
would see their son, their daughter stolen away from them,。
and not with great ferocity,。
chase down the one that took them from them?。
This is what God has done.。
God's wrath is poured out on sin,。
because it took you away from him.。
That's why we have to level with the fact。
that whether we're doing it against someone else,。
or we're doing it to ourself, all of it is against him.。
And yet, the beauty of the gospel。
is that God has poured out his wrath on your sin。
in the person of Jesus Christ,。
that it's no longer stored up for you。
if you place your faith in him,。
which is why it's such good news。
that you go free and he takes the hit.。
You cannot lead a godly life and follow deadly habits.。
So what does it look like?。
Like, how do we actually do this?。
How do we actually address the sin that's in our life?。
You confess it, not part of it, but all of it.。
You fight it.。
You fight it in the context of community,。
not in isolation nor by yourself.。
And then once these things are done, you move on.。
That's the good news.。
You move on.。
There's grace.。
There's forgiveness.。
You gotta address it.。
You gotta put it to death.。
You must mortify it, smother it, suffocate it,。
eradicate it from your life,。
and then when you do, move forward.。
And to the things that Paul describes here at the end,。
in verse 12, he says this.。
He says, "Put on then, as God's chosen ones,。
"holy and beloved, compassionate hearts,。
"kindness, humility, meekness, patience.。
"Bear with one another.。
"And if one has a complaint against another,。
"forgive each other.。
"As the Lord has forgiven you, so you must also forgive.。
"And above all else, and above all these, put on love,。
"which binds everything together in perfect harmony,。
"and let the peace of Christ rule in your heart。
"to which you indeed were called in one body,。
"and be thankful."。
You have good reason to be.。
Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly,。
teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom,。
singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs。
with thankfulness in your hearts to God.。
And whatever you do, in word or in deed,。
do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus,。
giving thanks to God the Father through him.。
It says in verse 12 that we put on。
five different virtues of love.。
He gave us 10 vices that we are to put off,。
and now he gives us five virtues that we're to put on.。
The Greek for put on is literally descriptive of clothing.。
You take off the old and you put on the new.。
You've outgrown that way of life,。
now it's time to put on the new way of life.。
What's it look like?。
It looks like Jesus, that's what it looks like.。
You're supposed to look like he looks.。
What does he look like?。
In one word, as this text tells us in verse 14,。
it looks like love.。
That's what it looks like,。
because he lived a life clothed with love for other people.。
And so we should do the exact same thing.。
When Brooke and I first started dating,。
I wore a lot of flannel.。
In contrast, Brooke did not.。
She did not wear any flannel.。
She had no flannel whatsoever.。
And because I loved her,。
what I decided is I was going to buy her。
her very first flannel.。
So I decided to make the purchase,。
which guys, you can commiserate with me。
in the fact that buying clothes for your girl。
is really difficult to do.。
But I made the purchase,。
the bigger the flannel, the better, you know?。
And so it was an easy purchase.。
Went, bought the flannel, gave it to Brooke.。
And what do you think happened when she got it?。
Think she just like shoved it in the closet?。
Like refused to let it ever see the light of day?。
No.。
She wore it the very next date that we went on.。
Why?。
I know.。
Why did she do it?。
Is it because she loved the flannel?。
No.。
I haven't seen it since.。
(congregation laughing)。
She wore it because she loved me.。
She wanted to look like the one who loved her.。
And in the same way,。
we should desire to look like the one who loves us.。
Jesus Christ has loved us with a love。
that is genuinely inexpressible.。
We do our best here every Tuesday to tell you about it.。
But the best manner with which you can see his love。
is by looking at our lives.。
I pray the same would be true for you.。
You see, Paul, to help us get an idea。
of what this love looks like,。
he gives us three verbs over the course。
of this section of scripture.。
And those verbs are to bear with one another,。
forgive one another, and admonish one another.。
All of which are extremely inconveniencing, right?。
They're all inconveniencing.。
Like just think about it.。
No one chooses to bear with someone else because it's easy.。
No, bearing with someone,。
that's a conscious choice to enter into suffering。
alongside someone you care about.。
Like no one chooses to forgive someone because it's easy.。
No, it's a conscious choice to overlook the wrong。
and trespass of someone that has done you dirty.。
No one chooses to admonish people because it's easy.。
But instead it's a conscious choice to brave the awkward。
and confront someone because you actually do care about them。
and you wanna see them better.。
This is what it looks like to love.。
You see, Paul, and our final point tells us,。
if you wanna look like Christ,。
then this is the kind of love you should have.。
And yet what you need to know is,。
although love is rarely easy, it's always worth it.。
Although love is rarely easy, it's often inconveniencing.。
It's always worth it.。
Paul begins a section by reminding us。
that we're God's chosen ones, holy, beloved,。
which is interesting because those three words,。
adjectives that he uses there, chosen, holy, beloved,。
those are all very descriptive of Jesus Christ himself.。
As you read about Jesus's life in the scriptures.。
Why is that interesting?。
Because if you read about us in the scriptures,。
we were not always identified as holy, chosen, and beloved.。
Instead, we were identified as the enemies of God.。
And yet here's what's wild.。
He has made you like his son。
because despite the fact that you're his enemy,。
he loved you anyways.。
That's what he says in Romans 5, 8.。
But God shows his love for us。
in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us.。
You see, God, he did the undeniable.。
He did something the likes of which。
we will spend the rest of our lives。
and all eternity trying to understand.。
He chose to love us when we were so very unlovable.。
I officiate weddings a lot.。
That's part of the gig.。
This is kind of what you do.。
You're a bunch of young singles,。
maybe some marrieds in the room, mostly young singles.。
And so I get the joy of watching two people find each other。
and wrap their arms up and make their way into the future.。
And so I stand at the altar with people.。
And what I hear every time I see two people。
come to the altar and they covenant together in marriage。
is I hear them make vows.。
They look at each other and they say things like,。
"For better or worse, for richer or poorer,。
sickness and in health, when you look like this。
and when you don't, I'm in."。
Doesn't matter.。
Here at the beginning of our marriage,。
before we've ever seen a day out in front of us,。
before we know any of the troubles or the trials that await,。
whether it's bright in the future or it's extremely bleak,。
right now, here in this moment, at this altar, I choose you.。
I want you.。
It doesn't matter what you do.。
I'm in, I choose you regardless。
of what you will or will not do to me, for me, or with me.。
That's a love that is so uncharacteristic of our world.。
You see, our world, we look at love。
and what it does is the world would say,。
"Love is all about compatibility."。
You know?。
Hey man, like so long as this is working for you。
and it's working for me and we're moving on。
and gaining ground, I'm in.。
But the minute you let me down,。
the minute this thing doesn't work out, I'm out.。
The good news of the way in which Jesus has loved us。
is he has not chosen to love us because we're compatible.。
There's no more incompatible couple in all of history。
than Christ and his church.。
No, he loves us because he chooses to,。
because he's committed to us.。
Love is rarely easy.。
And so is it equally difficult to love an enemy.。
And yet he wanted you, he wanted me.。
So he chose us in a difficult moment,。
in a moment that stretched his arms out。
upon Calvary's cross, because it was worth it to him.。
And so we should love each other like this.。
This is characteristic for those that live in Christ.。
They choose to love one another.。
How do I know that?。
Because it's characteristic of Christ himself.。
He has chosen to love us.。
You see, before we ever thought to set our minds。
on things above, Christ Jesus set his mind on us here below.。
And he made his way close to us.。
Before you and I could ever take off our shame,。
Christ took off his glory by hanging himself up。
for all to see, bearing the full consequence。
of what we in our sinfulness rightly deserved.。
And before we could ever put on his righteousness,。
he voluntarily put on our sin.。
(gentle music)。
What are you setting your mind on?。
Whatever it is, it does not compare to him.。
What clothes or garments, old way of life。
are you still wearing tonight that he's looking at you。
and he's saying, "Lay it down, take it off."。
What would love look like in your life to put it on?。
This is the call before us here tonight, porch,。
because this is the call to all that would claim Christ.。
Let me pray for us.。
(gentle music)。
(water trickling)。
(gentle music)。
(water trickling)。
Father, when I think about your son。
and all God that he would give to get us,。
I cannot think of anything, God,。
that I would not give to get him in return.。
It is so mind-blowing, wild to consider。
that you, God, a God that is real,。
a God that is alive, a God that is incomprehensible,。
a greater God than we could dare to dream,。
that a God like that would look upon a people like us,。
like us, riddled in our sin, covered in our shame,。
walking around with a stain the likes。
of which we can never clean,。
and you, God, would say, "I want you."。
That doesn't make any sense.。
I don't understand it, God.。
And yet that is what you have declared。
across the corridors of time in your son,。
is you have seen us when we were a long way off,。
lost in our sin, and you said, "I'm coming for you.。
I'll chase you down.。
I'll move heaven and earth。
and across whatever barrier there is just to get to you."。
What God would we not give up to get that?。
What God would we not lay down to have that?。
(gentle music)。
And God, I know like here tonight,。
there are people in this room that you're looking upon。
with a full knowledge, God, of their sin.。
And your response isn't anger.。
It's not disappointment.。
It's not frustration.。
It's, "Little girl, my precious boy,。
what are you doing here?。
How did you arrive at this place?。
This deserves to be dealt with,。
and I will deal with it.。
But you come with me,。
and we will see the end of it together."。
Friends, some of you here tonight,。
we sing this at the beginning of the evening.。
This is a moment of surrender.。
This is a fresh start.。
It's a chance to break the script of your regular life。
and say, "God, I don't wanna go this way anymore.。
I don't wanna set my mind on the things of this world.。
I wanna set it on you.。
I don't wanna entertain these sins, God,。
which you went to the cross to condemn.。
Instead, I wanna trust in you."。
Others of us, we're here,。
and we're not ready to be forgiven.。
And man, we've set our mind on the meaningful,。
and we're actively putting to death。
these things in our life。
which are not characteristic of Christ.。
Who then is it that God is calling you,。
compelling you to love,。
to admonish, to forgive, to bear with alongside?。
What does that look like in your life?。
God is working here in this space.。
He has brought you here this evening。
individually for you to take a step with.。
What's that step look like?。
God, we trust you,。
and we step towards you that we might go further,。
we might ascend higher,。
we might delve deeper than we've ever gone on our own.。
It's in Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
