[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
>> That was awesome.。
I haven't seen that yet.。
I've been gone the last couple weeks.。
What's up, friends in the room?。
What's up, friends in Fort Worth and in Houston and downtown?。
It is going to be such a fun night, and I am so glad to get to watch it along with you。
and be back hanging out with you guys as we continue the series A.D.。
I'm going to start with a little bit of a story.。
Do you guys remember swine flu?。
Anybody remember this, when somehow pigs ended up spreading a virus throughout America?。
And the swine flu -- anybody get swine flu in here?。
Anybody?。
Oh, yeah.。
Hey, I like that.。
Okay.。
So I'm going to tell a story of my only interaction with it.。
I was here on staff at Watermark, and I just started here.。
I was part-time here.。
I was at Dallas Seminary or grad school, and so I was part-time here, and I had a job at this coffee shop.。
So I spent my time in one of three places, working at the coffee shop, in class at DTS or Dallas Seminary,。
or here at Watermark working part-time, one of those three places.。
All of a sudden, one day, I go to the coffee shop.。
I'm working there, barista, making some lattes,。
and I start feeling a little sick, got a cough, got something going on, headache.。
You know when you, like, start to feel achy, and you're like, "Man, something is about to hit me like a freight train.。
I feel it coming."。
That's where I am.。
I'm at the coffee shop.。
Man, something's not going well.。
I'm not feeling good.。
Go to class that day, continue to not feel good, can't focus, go back to Watermark, working here.。
I'm like, "I got to go home.。
I do not feel good."。
I don't have insurance at this time.。
Hashtag Obamacare didn't exist.。
And so I go to a doc in the box to get treated by -- that's not a political statement, by the way, just saying I didn't have insurance.。
I go to a doc in the box.。
I go in there.。
He begins to take temperature, do all these different things.。
He comes back in the room and begins to say, "Well, I can tell you why you're not feeling well.。
You have the swine flu and strep throat at the same time."。
Yeah, talk about a bad day.。
So I get loaded up on all kinds of meds.。
He's like, "Hey, an antibiotic.。
We're going to give you a Z-Pak, but we really can't.。
You just got to ride out the swine flu, go home, crush some Gatorade, and relax for a few days."。
So I go home.。
I'm taking the Z-Pak.。
I'm trying to rest.。
I'm letting everybody know, "Hey, can't work today, and I got to go home and rest."。
A couple days go by.。
I'm beginning to feel a little bit better, and I think, "Oh, no, I need to work or else I can't pay bills.。
And so I need to go to this coffee shop and make some cash."。
Call them up.。
"Hey, I'm ready to come back into work feeling a lot better."。
They say, "Look, don't show up here for another 7 to 10 days.。
You had the swine flu.。
Don't bring that contagion in here.。
Go get well before you can come back in here."。
And I'm like, "No, I really am feeling better.。
We do not want you handing out swine flu lattes.。
You go home.。
You get feeling better.。
Don't come in here for another 7 to 10 days," which was kind of the length of a period of time of contagiousness.。
I'm like, "Great, unbelievable."。
So I call, and I get ready to go to class.。
I get an email from Dallas Seminary, from the grad school that says, "If you have been infected with the swine flu, do not attempt to come on campus."。
It's like, "What?。
Unbelievable.。
What kind of seminary is this place?。
Don't come here for 7 to 10 days until after."。
I'm like, "Well, I'll go to Watermark, a church.。
They'll accept me."。
At Watermark, I contact them, and they're like, "No, you cannot come here.。
Go home.。
Get well.。
Don't come in here until you get well.。
Get over this sickness.。
Stay out of here 7 to 10 days."。
So I end up having to work and do everything from Panera, the island of misfit toys, all by myself, working there for the next 7 to 10 days.。
I just remember being like, "Man, people do not want to be around me.。
This is unbelievable.。
I got the plague.。
I am just this outcast."。
I'm like, "Extra, extroverted.。
Anybody extroverted in the room?"。
So I'm like, "This was a miserable 7 to 10 days in my life where I'm like, 'Please, someone be my friend.'"。
So for the next 7 to 10 days, I'm waiting so I can get well to go back into normal life, to get clean before I can reenter into these three places.。
The reason you may be going, "What does swine flu have to do with the Bible?"。
Nothing.。
I just had to get that off my chest about this.。
That's not it at all.。
I'm totally kidding.。
The reason I started with that is because just like in that scenario where I had this sickness or something about me where everywhere that I looked,。
people were like, "Hey, get well.。
Don't come back here until you're healthy.。
Get clean and then you can come back in, but not until then."。
As it relates to church, as it relates to Christianity, really, one of the more common beliefs or common perceptions that people have, you may have,。
and maybe this is why for a while you had a season where you didn't go to church, is you thought that in order to come inside, you had to get clean,。
not physically sick over swine flu, but spiritually.。
You had to stop struggling.。
You had to get over the struggles, the hurts, habits, the hangups, whatever it was.。
Before you could come into the church, you had to really clean it up and get it together.。
Whether it's the fault of the church or really just your misperception or misstep on the church's fault, it's not at all what the church was ever intended to be.。
More common even than that belief, they're like, "Man, in order to be a part of church, you've got to really be cleaned up and get it together."。
Even more common than that false idea is that in order to have a relationship with God, you have to get it cleaned up.。
You have to be cleaned up and have your life together.。
One of the more common beliefs really in our country, and I would guess if you guys are honest in this room, is that in order to have a relationship with God,。
like when God looks down, if I'm going to have a relationship with him, if he's going to accept me, then I have to have my act together.。
I've got to get it cleaned up.。
When God looks at me, he's probably a little disappointed, saying, "Hey, get it together and then we can talk.。
Get your life in order and then we can have a relationship."。
If that's what you believe, even at a micro level, you have either misunderstood something about God or you don't know him at all.。
Tonight, we're going to explore what I mean by that because we're going to be introduced to Jesus, God in a bod on the planet.。
God comes down, puts flesh on, he stands around, shows us what God is like, and he's going to display for us that if you believe that God is a God who says,。
"Get it together before me and you can talk," you have not been introduced to the God who's there.。
So tonight, hopefully, will be your chance to encounter him.。
We're continuing AD.。
AD stands for the year of our Lord, where we are basically going through the New Testament.。
We're looking at snapshots of people and their encounter with Jesus.。
JP, two weeks ago, taught on the Rich Young Ruler.。
If you do not have the Porch app or you weren't here that night, go download the Porch app.。
You can go re-listen to that message.。
And last week's on another story of a man called the Garrison Demoniac.。
And if you don't know what that is, go listen to it.。
And both those messages were incredible.。
Would highly encourage you to go listen to them.。
Tonight, we're going to continue this series as we look at men and women who encountered Christ in hopes that we will encounter him for the first time.。
Or maybe in a fresh way.。
So we're going to be in Matthew chapter 8.。
If you have a Bible, flip open to Matthew chapter 8.。
Matthew, the very first book of the New Testament.。
We're going to explore a story of a guy.。
We're going to look at four verses.。
I'm going to walk you through his story.。
We're going to read his story.。
And then we're really going to talk about some of our story inside of it.。
So Matthew chapter 8.。
Matthew is a gospel.。
That means good news.。
It was Matthew's account of just the life of Jesus.。
Matthew was a disciple of Jesus.。
Matthew 8.。
So that's kind of what this book is.。
If you want to know, like, where are we in the book?。
If I started the 8th chapter of a book, where would we be?。
What just happened in Matthew chapters 5 through 7 was something called the Sermon on the Mount.。
Jesus just taught the most famous sermon in human history.。
And he's with this huge crowd on this mountainside.。
He begins to walk down the mountain.。
And that's where we are in this story.。
Verse 1 of chapter 8.。
When Jesus came down from the mountainside, large crowds followed him.。
A man with leprosy came and knelt before him and said, "Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean."。
Jesus reached out his hand to this leper, and he touched the man.。
"I am willing," he said.。
"Be clean."。
Immediately, he was cleansed of his leprosy.。
Then Jesus said to him, "See that you don't tell anyone, but go and show yourself to the priest and offer the gift Moses commanded as a testimony to them."。
So Jesus teaches the Sermon on the Mount, comes down the mountain.。
He's with the crowd.。
All of a sudden, the crowd begins to part because this leper shows up out of nowhere.。
He throws himself at the feet of Jesus.。
Luke tells us he's not just a leper.。
He is full of leprosy.。
Luke was a physician.。
If you don't know that, Luke wrote another gospel, and Luke was a doctor.。
He was a physician.。
So he's like, "Hey, time out.。
Let me give you a medical opinion.。
This dude was full of leprosy, not just a little rash.。
I mean, it was everywhere."。
And so we're told that this man covered in leprosy throws himself at Jesus' feet, begins begging, "Lord, if you were willing, you could heal my leprosy."。
Jesus reaches out and touches the man, and he's healed.。
And Jesus says, "I'm willing.。
Be clean."。
And immediately, the leprosy leaves, and Jesus tells him, "Hey, go and tell the priest or show yourself to the priest, and don't tell anyone else."。
The reason Jesus didn't want him to tell is because Jesus didn't show up to be universal health care.。
He came for a purpose.。
He didn't want the miracles to get in the way of the message.。
He didn't want everywhere he went for people to just be handing for free handouts.。
He came to die.。
He came for a purpose.。
So he tells him, "Go and show yourself to the priest who would allow him to reenter into society."。
It's an amazing story.。
But the reason why we picked this story is because it's so much more than maybe what originally meets the eye.。
Not only in the details that we're going to talk about of what just happened in a more full version, but inside of this story is your story and my story.。
And I believe the reason it is in the New Testament and even placed the way and place that it is inside of the gospel narrative right after the Sermon on the Mount is because it shows us that.。
And I'll tell you what I mean here in a second.。
So we're going to look at three ways that this foreshadows, really parallels our story.。
If you're ever going to know the God who doesn't say you need to clean yourself up before I will touch you and interact with you.。
But before that, we're going to look at just the leprosy because you may be going, "Wait, what is leprosy?。
I don't even know what leprosy is."。
Nobody in here ever said, "Hey, who's had leprosy before?"。
Probably not a lot of show of hands like chickenpox.。
It's not a very common thing in our context where people have leprosy.。
But here's what we know about leprosy.。
Leprosy was a much more common disease in the first century.。
Leprosy defined this guy's life.。
Physically, like here's what's crazy about leprosy.。
Even in studying this week, I thought it was like a rash on the outside.。
This is a disease that comes into your body and kills you from the inside.。
It literally takes over your nervous system.。
It takes over different cells and it begins to war against your own body and kill you.。
I thought about showing pictures of leprosy.。
So we go, "Man, here's what full leprosy would have looked like."。
This man that came out of nowhere and everyone gasped, "Ah, get away. Here's what it would look like."。
But the pictures, honestly, I was like, they were too graphic.。
This is a man who his face was deformed.。
His limbs, what happens is your fingers begin to fall off.。
Your nose eventually falls off.。
You lose your voice in the same way that it was.。
It takes over your vocal cords and you have a hoarse voice from there.。
Eventually you go blind. It was incurable.。
You were essentially, Josephus, a Jewish historian at this time, said, "Lepers are walking dead men.。
They must be treated as walking dead men."。
This man dealt with incredible pain for a very long time because it doesn't rapidly develop.。
It was a disease that progressed over time, so to be full of it meant he had suffered for many years.。
It numbed your senses so you could no longer feel things.。
You would burn your hands, burn things, and not be able to feel it.。
This life physically, or his life physically, was deeply impacted by this.。
Not only that, though, but probably the worst thing about being a leper is you are outcast.。
Like that little experience of like swine flu, "Hey guys, can I come inside?"。
That little experience that I had was this man's life.。
One day he woke up with this rash, which is the first external sign.。
All of a sudden, he would no longer be able to hug his kids if he had them.。
He could no longer hold his wife's hand if he had one.。
Like he was taken out.。
There's a law, the Old Testament commands, that if you have leprosy, because it's so contagious,。
this deadly disease, you are to live outside of the camp for the rest of your life.。
Here's what it says in Leviticus 13, where it talks about leprosy.。
It says, "The leprous person who has the disease," it even tells him what they're supposed to wear,。
"shall wear torn clothes," so all their clothes are to be torn up so they look like a crazy person,。
"and let their hair hang loose, and he shall cover his upper lip and cry out, 'Unclean, unclean!'"。
Everywhere he goes, there's people, so you know to stay away.。
"He shall remain unclean as long as he has the disease."。
He is unclean. "He shall live alone.。
His dwelling shall be outside the camp."。
Like he's told, "Hey, not only is it so bad," like they're literally saying,。
"Hey, you gotta look like a crazy person so people know, stay away from this dude.。
You gotta be like Zach Galifianakis with weird clothes on.。
Your hair's all going crazy places, and you gotta yell out, 'Unclean, unclean!'"。
Everywhere you go, you can no longer be around people.。
I mean, even emotionally, this guy's life is deeply impacted.。
Even the fact that he can't have anyone touch him.。
Like psychologists today say, "If you don't have human touch, it will mess you up.。
It will mess up your mind. You are more prone to violence, depression, all kinds of things."。
And this dude is a walking dead man who knows there's no cure.。
"I will never be home again.。
I will live like this for the rest of my life,"。
or whatever, if it's even fair to call it a life.。
Until one day, this man shows up, Jesus.。
And he reaches out, and he touches this leper, and he gives him his life back.。
Now, here's why I say this story is our story.。
Because just like leprosy, and if you take notes, we're gonna look at three different ideas。
where we really find ourselves in the story.。
Leprosy was seen as a curse from God.。
If you had it, people believed wrongly, "Hey, you've been cursed by God.。
You must have done something, 'cause he is taking you out right now."。
It was seen as this curse, and it was a curse that killed you from the inside out.。
We, as humanity, have a curse ourselves that kills us from the inside out.。
The first point I want to talk about is the curse that infects all of us, the curse of sin.。
Just like leprosy, even in the Bible, leprosy is synonymous with sin.。
It's like a picture of it. They use it over and over again.。
I'm like, "Man, that is what sin does to a person's life."。
Here's five ways. Look at the sin that infects all of us.。
Your disease and my disease is even worse than that of the lepers.。
If you don't believe me, hopefully I'll portray that to you.。
Five ways that sin is like leprosy. Here's one of them.。
Just like leprosy kills you from the inside out, this is how sin works.。
You notice this? Leprosy will war your body against itself.。
When you think about the things that make your life hard, that you're responsible for,。
they're all coming from inside of you.。
Things that come naturally out of you, that kill you from the inside.。
Like, "Hey, I struggle with addiction, or anger, or lust, or anxiety."。
All these emotions inside. You don't have to work at them.。
You don't have to try for them. They just come naturally to us.。
They kill us because we've been infected with the disease of sin.。
It's killing all of us from the inside out.。
What I mean by, "You don't have to work hard." They just come naturally.。
It easily comes. Nobody in the room was like, "Hey, here's a resolution for 2016."。
"I'm really going to work on my anger. I'm going to be more angry than ever before."。
"I'm really going to work on my anxiety this year. I feel like I've got so much peace."。
"I really could use some anxiety." Nobody has to work at any of these things.。
They all come naturally. They kill us from the inside out because all of us have been infected。
by what the Bible says is the disease of sin.。
That's the reason those things come naturally. It's sin nature.。
The second way that it's like that is it cuts you off.。
Just like leprosy in the Bible is synonymous with sin,。
it cuts you off from relationships with God and with people.。
Just like leprosy cuts them off. You cannot live here anymore. You have to leave.。
It is illegal for a leper to come inside the city to be around the crowd like that one was.。
That was illegal. It is illegal. You cannot be in a relationship.。
Sin is the thing that cuts us off in relationships from people.。
It's the thing that makes us want to hide.。
It's the thing that makes us lie about the things that we've done,。
things that we've messed up with. It's the thing that cuts off.。
Some of you guys, like dating relationships have fallen apart because of sin.。
Relationships, maybe you have parents who divorce because of sin.。
It cuts us off from one another. Just like leprosy,。
sin is this disease that infects the human race,。
infects my heart and yours, and has the ability to cut us off in relationship.。
Just like leprosy numbs you to the effects, the third way,。
just like leprosy numbs you to its effects, that's kind of how it works.。
The worse it progresses, the more numb you are. You can't feel things.。
One scholar said one of the best feelings a leper can feel is pain。
because they can't feel anything. Their mouth will get raw.。
They'll burn their mouth, burn their tongue because they can't feel anything.。
It numbs you the more it progresses. Isn't this how sin works?。
It's the same exact way. That first time you got hung over or drunk,。
you're like, "Oh my gosh, I can't believe that I did that."。
Now it's an every weekend thing. The first time you gave up your virginity,。
you're like, "Oh my gosh, what was I thinking? I cannot believe that I did that."。
Gosh, now it's the goal that you have in life, or it's just a part of dating.。
It numbs you to where it goes from, "Oh man, I shouldn't have done that,"。
to, "Man, I should always do that."。
The same way that leprosy numbs you, sin numbs you to its effects.。
The fourth way is that just like leprosy distorts your appearance,。
it would make them physically unattractive. Sin does the same thing.。
How unattractive does sin make people?。
Have you thought about this? Sin, greed, anger, lust,。
any of those different, whatever vice that it is, it makes a person pride.。
It makes someone unattractive. Remember when Michael Jordan,。
his speech for the Hall of Fame, before that, it was like,。
"Everyone wants to be like Mike," and then you saw who Mike was,。
and you're like, "Nobody wants to be like Mike."。
It makes you unattractive. In the same way, like dating,。
nobody's like, "Oh my gosh, let me tell you what I'm looking for.。
I'm looking for a guy who is greedy. That's what I want.。
He's got an anger problem, Mom, and I love it."。
Nobody wants to have, even if you're like, "Yeah, I like bad boys."。
I like bad boys who punch things. It's unattractive.。
In the same way that it distorts the outside appearance,。
that is the same way that sin works.。
The fifth way is just like leprosy is incurable by itself.。
It is impossible. The human body, you cannot.。
If you have leprosy, you will not be able to conquer leprosy。
by your immune system. You have to have something outside of yourself.。
In this day and age, it was just Jesus.。
Today, they've got antibiotics, which is why,。
if you're familiar with the ways that leprosy has receded in our world,。
but in this day and age, you had to have, and still even today,。
you have to have something. You cannot cure it yourself.。
Sin, you cannot cure sin yourself.。
You may be going, "I don't know. I can conquer bad habits.。
I'm a disciplined person." Even if you're the most disciplined,。
type A person in the room, all you do is you move sins around.。
All of a sudden, you conquer that one, and something else pops up.。
You cannot conquer it yourself.。
Sin, like leprosy, is incurable alone or by yourself.。
But just like we cannot cure ourselves,。
so also just like the leper in this story,。
Christ alone can cure us.。
Just like the leper in this story where they're like,。
"Hey, look, I'm going to throw myself at the mercy of God."。
I mean, what the man does is illegal.。
He shows up and the crowd is going, "What is everybody?。
Back up, back up. There's a leper."。
At this time, you had to remain at least six feet away from a leper.。
It was illegal for a leper to enter a city or a community or be around people.。
Like the punishment one rabbi said was that he should be stoned.。
The punishment outright was at least 40 lashes on his back.。
It was illegal for this man to show up, but why did he show up?。
Why did he say, "Look, I'm going to break the wall"?。
Because he knew that there was this man that he believed was his savior.。
And he said, "Look, even if I die, even if they kill me in this crowd,。
Jesus, you're my only hope. I'm dead already.。
Either you can save me and I'll be able to go home.。
I'll be able to have my life back or I'm dead already.。
Of course, I'm going to come break the wall. I'm going to fall at your feet, Lord.。
You alone are my cure."。
In the same way as it relates to sin,。
Christ alone is your cure and my cure.。
Like in the story of the leper, inside of the story, you and I, we are the leper.。
Who comes and we have no other place, nothing.。
We cannot heal ourselves.。
Our only option, if we are to be accepted by God, to be in relationship,。
is to throw ourselves at the mercy of God and say,。
"Lord, if you're willing, you can clean my life.。
You can take away my sin. You can save me, Lord. Will you save me?"。
This is the message of Christianity.。
If you ever become a Christian, it will not be by you cleaning yourself up.。
It will be by you accepting the God who will reach out his hand,。
touch you, and make you whole, heal you.。
Just like the leper got healed and then he was allowed to re-enter into the city.。
You will never enter into the city of God if you do not throw yourself at the mercy of Jesus.。
That's all a Christian is.。
So when he says, "Look, I don't need a second chance.。
I'm not going to be able to save myself. I can't be good enough.。
The standard according to Jesus is much higher than I'm ever going to be.。
No matter how good you think you are, you'll never get there."。
And Jesus says, "I'm here to save you.。
You don't need a second chance and a third chance. I'm going to try harder this week.。
You need a Savior, and so do I."。
That's why Jesus came. That's the point.。
Christ alone is the cure.。
Even the placement of the Sermon on the Mount.。
Even the fact that this story takes place right after the Sermon on the Mount.。
What is the Sermon on the Mount?。
Jesus gives all kinds of incredible teachings,。
right out of the Sermon on the Mount.。
At every turn, in every corner, he basically says,。
"You're not good enough.。
Whatever you think the standard is, it is way higher than that.。
You think, 'Oh man, I've never committed adultery.'。
If you've ever lusted, even if you're a virgin,。
you have committed adultery.。
Sorry. If you are angry at someone,。
you may think, 'Oh, but I've never murdered somebody.'。
If you are angry, you're a murderer, Jesus says, before God.。
I mean, at one point, he even says this.。
"Unless you are as righteous or more righteous,。
unless your righteousness exceeds," he says in Matthew 5, verse 20,。
"unless it exceeds that of even the Pharisees and the scribes,"。
or another way of saying it,。
"unless you are more pure than the Pope,。
unless, brother Pope, unless you are more pure than him。
and Mother Teresa and every single nun that's out there,。
unless you are more pure than all of them,。
you will not go to heaven," is what he says.。
I mean, at every turn, you're going,。
"Jesus, oh my gosh, we'll never get there."。
And he would say, "That's the point.。
That's why I'm here, to die in your place."。
I mean, at one point, if all that wasn't bad enough,。
he says, "You must be perfect,。
as your heavenly Father is perfect."。
And we could try to explain that away and be like,。
"By perfect, he means, you know, imperfect."。
But the word is perfect.。
You must be perfect, Jesus.。
I got to be perfect? Yeah.。
I mean, imagine if the sermon was that today.。
"Hey guys, you got to be perfect."。
Let me close in prayer real quick.。
Everyone would be like, "What? What kind of message?"。
Jesus is going, "That's the point.。
You'll never get there alone yourself.。
You need someone who can save you.。
You cannot do it alone.。
Christ alone is the cure.。
That's the whole point."。
And then after he finishes this message,。
it's like he goes down the mountain with the crowd.。
"Come on, guys, I'm going to give you an illustration。
of the fact that you cannot do it on your own.。
Throw yourself in the mercy of God.。
Ask the name of Him who would save you."。
He goes down the mountain with the crowd,。
and all of a sudden, this leper who has no hope in the world,。
who's able to say, "God, I need you to save me."。
Right after the sermon on the mount,。
he goes down and he says,。
"Let me show you an illustration of what this is going to look like."。
Jesus comes down the mountain and saves a man。
who does nothing but be unclean and asks for mercy.。
As though Jesus is saying, "This is the point.。
This is why I'm here.。
This is what it's all about."。
If you think Christianity is about you trying to be a good person,。
you do not know the Christ behind it.。
You do not know what Christianity biblically is all about.。
You do not know what the Bible teaches.。
It is not Jesus didn't come to be like,。
"Hey, I'm going to make you a good person."。
He came to make you alive,。
to make you a new person,。
to cure you and I of the infection。
that is killing the human race called sin.。
He alone is the cure.。
Even the placement of it,。
right after the sermon on the mount,。
is God sending a message.。
You cannot do it alone.。
Christ alone is the cure.。
If you and I will simply throw ourselves in the mercy of God.。
Man, I love getting to do what we do here。
because every single week what happens is people come in。
and they were raised in a kind of church,。
went to VBS,。
"I was Catholic, I had something."。
All of a sudden they never heard the gospel.。
They trust in Jesus.。
They just go, "Oh my gosh, man, God loves me.。
He died for me.。
Before I could even do anything,。
that's what Christianity is about?。
How did I never hear this?"。
They give their lives to Jesus.。
They surrender and they just say,。
"Man, it's not about me trying to work my way to heaven.。
God came to me.。
I accept you, Lord."。
What happens is this incredible miraculous change.。
Just like the leper.。
Have you been standing there?。
I mean, how crazy would that be。
if you saw someone with leprosy,。
which would be like Ebola,。
someone walking up to someone with Ebola,。
touching them and you see it disappear.。
You'd be like, "Oh my gosh, what just happened?"。
That's miraculous.。
In the same way, every single week,。
people at this porch or at the porch here in Fort Worth。
and in Houston and in downtown,。
all over the place and other churches as well,。
people come to trust.。
They surrender their life to Christ.。
They ask him for mercy.。
"Lord, will you help me?。
Will you heal me?。
I accept you."。
And miraculous life change begins to take place.。
Like if you're in the room and you're going,。
"Man, but you don't know what I've done.。
I look around at my circumstance。
and everywhere that I look, I've just messed up.。
I've ruined things.。
I'm still ruining things.。
I ruined things like 45 minutes ago.。
I'm planning to ruin stuff later tonight."。
You don't know.。
I mean, God can't accept me.。
I'm telling you, whatever your story is,。
you're surrounded by people in the building。
who have that same story, but only yours is part one.。
And all of a sudden, Jesus comes in。
and part two gets written,。
and they have been radically changed.。
Let me read some of them, fly through them.。
Here's stories of people.。
This happened today.。
I heard from a girl today, this girl named Kelly.。
She was living with a boyfriend,。
trying to numb her pain and numb her anxiety,。
overwhelmed with anxiety, through alcohol and weed.。
She was smoking so much weed。
that she became a weed dealer to pay for her weed.。
Girl looks like the girl next door.。
You're like, "Really?。
A weed dealer?。
Interesting."。
She all of a sudden encounters Christ.。
He stretches out the same hand that touched the leper.。
Radically, her life has changed.。
Now, all of a sudden,。
she begins to be a part of ministering to women。
on a weekly basis.。
She's on staff now at Watermark.。
A frat party leader named Travis,。
he meets downtown.。
He's one of the leaders down there,。
was chasing the next high,。
was a frat star that didn't leave it in college,。
was trying to hook up with every girl that he could,。
was numbing whatever pain from life。
through alcohol, through weed, whatever it was.。
He has an encounter with Christ,。
turns his life around,。
one of the best ministers of the gospel we have.。
A guy named Todd,。
who was using and abusing drugs, alcohol,。
was using and abusing his girlfriend。
and having sex with her。
and manipulating her to allow him to have sex。
with other girls.。
This is the guy who all of a sudden encounters Christ.。
God stretches out his hand.。
Now, he is no longer in that relationship.。
He's pursuing purity.。
He's one of the leaders in Fort Worth.。
I'll let you boy, Todd.。
(audience laughing)。
Another girl, Jordan,。
living in relationships defined by sex,。
hung over every weekend,。
got pregnant, aborted the baby.。
All of a sudden, despite all the pain from that,。
encounters Christ,。
who stretches out his hand,。
changed her life,。
found meaning and purpose,。
meets with women every year。
who have the fear of leaving an unhealthy relationship.。
Now, she's using her past as a platform to showcase。
Jesus is a God who brings dead people back to life.。
And every week, she meets with girls。
who struggle with fear。
of leaving an unhealthy relationship。
or sex or the Dallas life scene.。
Another girl, Katie,。
was partying three to four times a week,。
slaved to how she looked.。
She was defined by how I looked on the outside.。
I was empty and alone.。
I was surrounded by millions of people in New York City,。
but I'd never felt so alone.。
I encountered Christ through a porch volunteer on a plane.。
I trusted Jesus.。
And now, I serve each week in the ministry。
that Christ used to change my life.。
Another one, a porn addict。
who used to call in sick to work。
to look at porn all day,。
encounters Christ, stretches out his hand.。
Now, he's an incredible minister of the gospel。
with an incredible marriage and children.。
Another girl who didn't even have a desire to know God。
runs off into a marriage she should never have been in.。
Her marriage falls apart.。
She has a divorce.。
She ends up getting pregnant, has an abortion,。
encounters Jesus.。
Now, she's one of the best ministers of the gospel that I know.。
She's happily married.。
She serves in this ministry.。
A bunch of other people with similar stories to that。
or maybe similar stories to mine。
where like, "Hey, I was raised,。
"I tried to be a pretty good person,。
"hung my hat on how good or things that I hadn't done。
"and God stretched out his hand and saved me from pride,。
"from thinking that I didn't need a savior."。
Even if that's your story in the room,。
man, that's one of the more miraculous stories out there。
because you haven't bought into the lie。
that tons of people in this room have that,。
"Hey, I'm a good person, man.。
"I don't do any of that stuff.。
"I don't smoke weed.。
"I try to, I pay my taxes.。
"I'm a good person."。
And God awakened your eyes and you go,。
"Man, I am not a good person.。
"There's something dark inside of me.。
"I need a savior."。
And that's a miraculous story.。
Every single day, every week, we see stories around you.。
And the reason I'm camping there。
is because here's what I know.。
I know there's people in this room。
who think that, "Man, God, if there is a God,。
"he didn't want anything to do with me."。
And you know what?。
Godly environments or godly people,。
whatever God could have had for my life, it's gone.。
It's not there anymore.。
I'll never have the marriage that I wanted to have.。
I'll never have the story that I wanted to have.。
And the reality is, whatever your story is,。
there is no past God cannot redeem.。
There is no past that's a problem for his grace.。
But it can be a platform for it.。
This is personal.。
I have a close family member。
who I talk to all the time.。
She's a believer.。
And I'm always like, "Man, I wish you came to the porch."。
One, and she has made, she's had a past where。
she had a season of running.。
She has a couple kids out of wedlock.。
And she feels like, "Man, why would I go to the porch?"。
Even if I was to meet someone or engage in a relationship,。
godly guys would never want something to do with me.。
And I tell her what I would tell you.。
A godly guy will not see you defined by your past.。
And if he does, that is not a godly guy.。
And the reason that he wouldn't have anything to do with you,。
it doesn't have anything to do with your past.。
It may have something to do with your present。
that is not fully surrendered, going,。
"God, you can change.。
"You can write any story."。
And the reason why she's held back。
is not 'cause God's holding her at distance.。
She's bought a lie that that's the God that's there,。
that God holds people at a distance.。
The God who is there doesn't hold at a distance.。
He is reaching out to hold onto her.。
And if that's your story in the room,。
that's the same case for you.。
But Christ alone is the cure,。
and he does miraculous things still today.。
The final point of no matter what your story is,。
is Christ's compassion towards you.。
Christ's compassion towards you.。
Like the leper, we look at this man,。
and Mark tells the same story.。
Mark chapter one.。
What does Jesus do?。
What moves Jesus to stretch out his hand?。
It tells us he was filled with compassion.。
And he looked at this leper who said,。
"Lord, I have nowhere to go.。
"God, if you're willing, you can make me clean.。
"I could go home and hold my kids, God.。
"Will you heal me, Lord?。
"Will you save me, Lord?"。
And Jesus, filled with compassion,。
stretches out his hand, and he heals him.。
While he was still unclean, he touches him.。
What does God do for you and me?。
What is the feeling that he expresses。
towards those who are unclean?。
Compassion.。
Christ's compassion towards us is our third point.。
Like what does God feel for you right now in the room?。
Compassion.。
Like regardless of where you are,。
the God of the universe is filled with love。
as he looks out and says,。
"That's my boy, that's my girl.。
"I wanna have a relationship with him.。
"I'm the God who moves towards them before they're clean."。
Let me say this again, let me try to make it as good.。
Before you do anything right,。
God is reaching out towards you.。
Before you've ever cleaned yourself up,。
no matter what you have done, God is going,。
"I got open arms, come on in here!"。
That's the God who is there.。
He reaches out, he's filled with compassion and love,。
and wants you to know him,。
wants to have a relationship with you.。
That's the God that exists.。
He's filled with compassion towards you and I,。
just like that leper,。
and he's made the first move towards you and I.。
Like in any relationship,。
somebody makes the first move, right?。
Like in a dating relationship,。
if you're in a dating relationship,。
like somebody at some point made the first move.。
You know what I mean?。
Like somebody was like, either the guy or the girl.。
The guy was like, "Hey, I'd love to take you to coffee,。
"or get to know you, and how you doing?"。
Whatever the pickup line is.。
And it's either the guy or the girl who's like,。
"Hey, I would love to give you these cookies。
"that I made in between my quiet time。
"and working out like I do every day."。
(congregation laughing)。
Somebody makes it, puts it out there.。
God has made the first move in the relationship.。
If you ever have one,。
it will be in response to the God。
who's reaching out to you now。
and has made the first move.。
If you just accept it, what he feels towards you。
and all of the broken, hurting humanity is compassion.。
God loves the unclean.。
And he loves the broken.。
He loves sinners.。
Like that's mind boggling to me.。
He even says a few verses later in Matthew 9,。
"I came to heal the sick."。
I came, he says, "It's not the healthy that need a doctor,。
"it's the sick, that's why I'm here."。
Jesus, you're saying we're all sick.。
You're all sick.。
And I'm the one who can make you clean.。
I can make you healthy.。
I can make you come back to life.。
I can give you life.。
I can give you like that,。
left for your life back.。
If you'll accept it.。
How great, even the fact that he touches him,。
like how great is Christ's love.。
This ministered to me so much this week。
as I was thinking about it.。
Even the fact that he touches him.。
Like why, Jesus?。
It says this in verse three,。
"Jesus reached out his hand."。
The crowd is backed away going,。
this man, he deserves to die.。
He's come in the middle of the crowd.。
What is he doing?。
Everyone back up.。
This contagion of Jesus.。
And not like the crowd were calling,。
God reaches out to the man and he touches him.。
Why do you touch him, Jesus?。
This is why I ministered to me.。
Was it because you had to to heal him?。
That's just how you did it?。
No.。
The very next story, four verses later,。
he heals the guy with just a word,。
you're healed.。
He never even goes to see him.。
He says, "The man is healed."。
Jesus in this moment,。
he reaches out to touch the leper,。
not 'cause he has to,。
not 'cause he needs to,。
because he wants to,。
because he loves him.。
And the God that is there。
doesn't reach out to you because you're clean.。
He doesn't reach out to me because I'm clean.。
He reaches out to you and to me。
and to all who will just accept him.。
He reaches out in general,。
even when they don't.。
And he reaches out,。
not 'cause he has to,。
'cause he wants to,。
'cause he loves you,。
wherever you are.。
He's a God that reaches out。
in the midst of that。
and touches a man who hadn't been touched in years.。
And he heals him.。
How great is God's compassion?。
This is the God who was there,。
and I'm gonna close,。
and we're gonna land the plane right here.。
The tragedy is, I think,。
so many people, as it relates to God,。
and as it relates to thinking of even Christianity,。
is they think,。
man, they gotta clean up first.。
And God says, "I touch you when you're unclean."。
This is how it works.。
I'm the one who makes you clean.。
I mean, how crazy would it have been。
if, like, when I got swine flu,。
I called the doctor,。
and I was like, "Hey, I'm a little under the weather.。
"I wanna make an appointment."。
And they were like, "Oh, tell me your symptoms."。
"Oh, a cold, headache, oh, yeah."。
"Yeah, we're not gonna see you.。
"Get feeling better, get healthy,。
"and then you can come to the doctor."。
You'd be like, "What?。
"That's, what kind of doctor is this?"。
Doctors are there to make clean.。
I mean, that's one of the primary things。
they hang their hat on,。
is they make clean.。
They make healthy.。
That's why they do practice medicine.。
"You're not gonna see me 'til I get clean."。
That would be crazy.。
Why is it that we think that that's how God is?。
Why is it that so many have bought a lie。
that is not in the Bible,。
that I need to clean up,。
and God says, "I am the one who makes clean.。
"If you're gonna be clean, you come to me.。
"I'm the one who heals you。
"of whatever you're struggling with."。
It's not by your own self-righteousness,。
your own self-discipline.。
I make clean.。
That's why I came.。
That's why I'm here.。
That's the God that exists.。
And wherever you are tonight,。
he's reaching out to you and to me,。
filled with compassion,。
as he's always been,。
for humanity to heal。
before they're ever clean.。
And he's reaching out to touch。
'cause he wants to,。
'cause he loves you.。
This is why we do ministry.。
This is why we take this message every single,。
we were talking in the green room。
with the team before.。
This is why we do what we do with the porch.。
If you would've told me I'd be in ministry,。
I'd be like, "What?。
"There's no way I'm getting in ministry.。
"I want a lake house.。
"I'm not getting in ministry."。
I never would've wanted to do this.。
But honestly, the thing that keeps。
my heart connected to this。
is this is seeing what God does,。
and honestly, telling people。
about the God who is there.。
This is the God that is there.。
This is our God who reaches out,。
who heals before you do anything right.。
And we're gonna take this message。
every place that we can get in,。
to every street, to every place,。
every space in this town,。
in Fort Worth, in Houston,。
in every place that we can get,。
'cause there's a world out there。
that does not know the God who is there.。
They think they have to clean themselves up.。
It is a tragic, heartbreaking, unbiblical idea,。
but they have bought into the lie。
that if they're gonna have a relationship with God,。
get it together!。
And God's holding 'em back.。
And the reality is God is reaching out。
towards them.。
That's the God who is there.。
That's the God who lives.。
That's the God who changes.。
And if you're ever gonna know the God that exists,。
that's the God you will encounter.。
I'm gonna pray that you would.。
Father, thank you just for allowing us。
to see some of your character.。
That you don't reach out,。
and you don't change us,。
and you don't love us。
because we've made ourselves clean.。
That you make us clean because you love us.。
You alone are our only hope, Lord.。
I don't have anything to offer,。
and I throw myself on your mercy.。
All of us do who know you, Lord.。
And we say you are our only hope,。
just like that leper, Lord.。
If you are willing, you can make us clean.。
You can heal us, Lord.。
And thank you that your response。
is I am willing.。
Be healed, be clean, be new, be alive.。
For anyone in this room who doesn't know you, God,。
would you reach out your hand,。
and would you save them?。
Would you allow them to see。
because we're told that they've been blinded。
to the God who is there,。
even believing that they need to work their way to heaven。
and not trust in the God who came down the mountain。
for them, to save them.。
Even their rejection or the belief。
that they could earn their way up the mountain is a lie, God.。
Would you shatter that lie with your truth,。
with your love, with your compassion?。
We worship you now, Lord.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
