Some of us didn't know we needed it, but two minutes God, we just needed that little bit。
of time to drop our defenses, to open our hearts in God to build our belief.。
World's tearing us down on God.。
Work is a nightmare, families are difficult, stress is real, anxiety is crippling, but。
Jesus, we believe you're the solution to it all.。
We believe you are the one who satisfies.。
So come, come here to those that are hungry for you, oh God.。
Come here to those, God, that want for you and you alone.。
And oh God, add to our number.。
We love you.。
We're grateful for tonight, it's in Christ's name.。
Amen.。
Well, Porsche, how we doing?。
We doing good?。
It's great to be with you.。
So glad you're here.。
God's doing an amazing thing.。
As I said, here in Dallas, Texas, we've experienced it over the last few weeks, but man, we believe。
he's doing an amazing thing all across the country because the Porsche is not just a。
local thing, it's a national thing that we just get the privilege of being a part of。
in the season.。
It's been happening for a really long time, but man, it's a joy to be a part of it right。
now.。
We believe that God is doing here what he is doing elsewhere, and he's doing it especially。
in the lives of our Porsche Live locations.。
We love all of our Porsche Live locations, Porsche Live Fresno, Porsche Live Wheaton,。
Porsche Live Scottsdale, special shout out to you all.。
So grateful to be united to you and what God is doing in the country and in the lives of。
young adults.。
Well, when I was a freshman in college, my sister and my brother-in-law, they came to。
visit me and my brother.。
We lived together there in my first semester, the fall therein, when I'd gotten to Texas。
A&M University, and they came with generosity in their hearts.。
They had a very specific plan in mind that they wanted to lavish upon my brother and。
I.。
We were going grocery shopping, and they wanted to foot the bill, which for a couple of broke。
college kids makes a huge world of difference, and yet it was an all-expense paid, "Hey,。
you can throw whatever you want in the cart and they will pick up the tab," and yet they。
had three conditions that we had to live by.。
Number one, we only had 10 minutes to do all of our shopping.。
Number two, we were limited to one shopping cart, and then number three, there was no。
divide and conquer sort of strategy.。
We had to stay together the entire time, and so we pull into H-E-B, because that's the。
only true grocery store, and as we made our way into a parking spot, they looked at us。
and they said, "Oh, yeah, by the way, one more important piece of information.。
There is one item in the entire grocery store that if you find it, it'll buy you another。
five minutes.。
Good luck," and as they parked the car, the timer started.。
We threw open the door, and we sprinted across the parking lot, and I'm not joking, grabbing。
a shopping cart along the way like two men possessed, because we felt like we had just。
won the lottery.。
We had an opportunity to maximize this chance of having everything we've ever wanted, and。
so we, of course, blew by the produce section, because we ain't got time for that, and we。
went straight to the meat section, because we're a couple of college boys, and as we。
get there, we're loading up with steaks, and we're getting the chicken, and we're throwing。
in the kebabs, and then we move along to the frozen pizza, and we're grabbing all of that,。
and the inner drinks, got to throw those in, too, and bags upon bags of chips and the protein。
powder, because we were getting our lift on in those early days.。
We were running and collecting as much as we could.。
Shopping cart was rattling loud.。
Items were falling out along the way, and yet we kept throwing things in, barely able。
to see over the top of it, until at last we made our way to the counter, and their promise。
was true.。
They picked up the tab.。
They foot the full bill, and then as we got home, we realized that we had, in fact, won。
the lottery, because our kitchen was overflowing.。
We had frozen food filling the freezer.。
We had counters filled with stuff that the pantry could not hold.。
I had even stuffed my drawer in the bedroom with a few items that I didn't want my brother。
to pick out, because those were things that I wanted for me, myself, and I.。
We had cashed in and gotten everything that we wanted, but we got nothing that we needed.。
You see, we spent our entire time searching for whatever looked good in the moment that。
we ultimately missed finding what mattered in the end.。
Why do I tell you that?。
Because I think that's the way a lot of us live our lives.。
We get caught up moving so fast, chasing whatever feels exciting, impressive, gratifying, immediate,。
that we fail to lay hold of what matters in the end.。
I see this all the time with young adults.。
You binge content, but you still feel empty.。
You optimize your schedule, but you're still stressed.。
You curate an identity that you want the world to know you by, even though you don't know。
who you are.。
You chase experiences, but you can't stay happy.。
You keep chasing different things.。
You want money, career, romance, sex, success, influence, platform, only to realize later。
on that none of those things actually satisfy.。
Why?。
Because you were not made to be a consumer.。
You were made to be a believer.。
That is the very purpose for which God has created you, which, as I say that, I know。
a lot of you in the room, you nod your head and you're like, "Yeah, yeah, yeah.。
I got that."。
And yet I'm here to tell you, no, no, no, I don't think you do, because what I've learned。
over the course of my years living here in the South, amongst cultural Christianity,。
it is easy to believe that you think you know about Jesus when you don't know about Jesus.。
It's easy to believe all about him, but not actually believe in him, because around here,。
it's easy to believe that Jesus existed and Christianity is real, and yes, he did die。
for my sins.。
He's going to go to heaven one day, when the truth of the matter is you have only believed。
some facts about him, and you have no real faith in him.。
That's why for so many of you, your faith feels forced, and as I say that word, you。
know exactly what I mean, because every time you wake up in the morning, God does, in fact,。
feel a million miles away.。
He does not feel close to you at all.。
When you heap up your prayers, it feels like you're phoning a distant relative and thanking。
them for the birthday card.。
Whenever you decide to roll into church, you come out of obligation, because you know if。
you don't, you'll feel guilty whenever you see the next Monday.。
You see, we have subscribed to a form of Christianity that Jesus did not die to give to you.。
He died to give you something better, which is exactly what I want to talk to you about。
tonight.。
Turn with me to John chapter 6.。
Tonight we're looking at a conversation that Jesus had with a group of people that look。
a lot like you and me.。
You see, we talked a couple of weeks back that Jesus was from his hometown of Nazareth,。
and yet as we come to John 6, we're going to see he is in a different town.。
He is in the city of Capernaum.。
Nazareth was his hometown, Capernaum is his home base.。
It was the place where he set up his ministry as he did things around the region of Galilee,。
which meant that this specific city, it was actually exposed to more of Jesus's gospel。
ministry than any other place in all of Israel.。
You see, they were familiar with Jesus.。
They knew about his teachings.。
Whenever he showed up, they tuned in the same way we do to our favorite people that we listen。
to on the pod.。
They had complete clarity of who this guy is and what he did and what he had come to。
do, or so they thought.。
He even performed more miracles there than in any other place.。
We see by way of the scripture that he was here in Capernaum, that the paralyzed man。
was lowered to the roof and he was healed.。
The demon-possessed man was saved during synagogue.。
Peter's own mother-in-law was healed.。
The centurion's servant was cured from a distance, and Jairus' daughter was raised from the dead.。
You see, Capernaum was as comfortable with Christ back then as Dallas is with Christ。
here today, which feels like good news to us.。
Like, "Shoot, man, that's the place that he decided to set up his ministry.。
Okay, cool.。
I'm glad that we're kind of lumped in with that," until you hear what he says in Matthew。
11, 23.。
He says this, "And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven?。
No.。
You will be brought down to Hades, for if the mighty works done in you had been done。
in Sodom, it would have remained until this day."。
Why does Jesus rebuke them?。
Because they had seen and heard so much, and yet they believed so very little.。
Capernaum exists as a warning to us today.。
Those who are nearest to Jesus may actually be farthest from him instead, and they don't。
even realize it.。
So what do we do then?。
How do we ensure that we're not lumped into the same fate that the city of Capernaum was。
if we ourselves are so very synonymous just by way of where we live?。
What do we do then?。
How do we make sure that we're not just professors of faith, but we're actually possessors of。
faith?。
How do we make sure that our belief is genuine?。
Well, Jesus is going to tell us.。
So we're going to look at John 6.。
We'll pick it up in 25.。
Here's what you've got to know.。
We're covering a lot of ground tonight.。
John 6 is the longest chapter in John's gospel, and so we're going to take a big portion of。
it, and I'll probably speed speak, so y'all just keep up.。
It says this, "When they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, 'Rabbi,。
when did you come here?'。
And Jesus answered them, 'Truly, truly, I say to you, you are seeking me not because。
you saw the signs, but because you ate your fill of the loaves.'"。
So we'll stop there because we need to understand something about this conversation.。
This conversation is taking directly after one of Jesus' most famous miracles, a miracle。
that you're familiar with because this miracle is recounted in all four of the gospels.。
It's actually the only miracle next to the resurrection that is actually recorded in。
all of the gospels, and that miracle is the feeding of the 5,000.。
This is the miracle where the disciples find some little kid's charcuterie board, five。
loaves and two fish.。
Jesus works out not worldly math because five plus two equals seven.。
He actually works out kingdom math, and he decides to take five plus two and make it。
5,000 plus.。
As they walk away from that miracle, it says the people, realizing that he had the supply。
for their demand, wanted to make him king, which feels like a really odd detail, but。
that's what we do.。
If you think about it, we elect people into political office because we believe they can。
supply the sort of life that we want for ourselves.。
We're doing the exact same thing, and yet Jesus calls them out for it.。
He tells them, "You didn't seek me because you saw the signs that reveal who I am.。
You sought me because you ate your fill of the loaves."。
He looks at them and he tells them, "You're not seeking me because you believe in me.。
You're seeking me because you received from me."。
They were consumers.。
They were not believers, which tells us something very important about genuine belief.。
If you only believe in Jesus for his benefits, you do not believe in Jesus.。
If you only believe in Jesus for his benefits, you don't believe in Jesus because Jesus is。
not some sort of life enhancement accessory.。
He's not some sort of self-help guru.。
Faith isn't just a way to reduce your anxiety.。
Church does not solely exist so you can find community.。
The porch is not just some place that you look for a good, moral guy or girl that you。
can call husband or wife, and God isn't only useful for your future.。
Jesus came to be so much more than that, which is why he says this in verse 27.。
He says, "Do not work for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life,。
which the Son of Man will give to you, for on him God the Father has set his seal."。
You see, Jesus wants more for you than temporal satisfaction.。
He wants you to have eternal satisfaction, which as we hear that, that he has come to。
give us eternal life, our mind immediately leaps to one facet of eternal life.。
We immediately start thinking about the duration of eternal life.。
When we've been there 10,000 years, bright shining as the sun, with no less days to sing。
God's praise than when we first begun, yay.。
That sounds like what we typically think of whenever eternal life comes into the equation,。
and yet while that's not wrong, it is correct, it's not complete.。
But many of us, we agree to believe in Christ as Savior because we just would rather go。
there than the lake of fire, and yet the truth is eternal life is about so much more than。
just the longevity of your life.。
It is actually about the quality of your life, because that's what the word life in the Greek。
right here, zoe, actually means.。
See, there's three words in Greek for life.。
You've got bios, which is physical life, you've got psuche, which is where we get psychology,。
that's your mental life, and then you've got zoe, which is spiritual life or abundant life,。
and that's the kind of life that Jesus came to give.。
You see, eternal life is not just forever, it's also fulfilling.。
That's the point.。
And the crazier thing about eternal life is it's not just one day when you get to heaven,。
it is here today when you place your faith in Christ.。
That's the amazing thing.。
It's not only about abundant life in the future, it is abundant life in the present.。
John 10:10 says, "The thief comes only to steal, kill, and destroy, but I came that。
they might have life and have it abundantly."。
That's the offer on the table.。
It's not just that you get to go to heaven when you die, but heaven comes to you while。
you live.。
So all the joy, all the peace, all the hope, all the prosperity and the freedom and the。
passion and the purpose that you want for your life here today, Jesus wants that for。
you here today.。
Like, that's why he gave himself, that's the promise that he has offered to us by way of。
our faith in the reception of this eternal life.。
So why then is that not your experience?。
Why then does your faith feel boring instead of thrilling?。
Can we just get real with each other for a moment?。
How many of us would say, "Yeah, my belief is bored.。
My Christianity doesn't feel radical; it does feel casual."。
I think many of us would say, "Yeah, that's probably more synonymous with my experience。
than what you're describing here, Kylan."。
And yet, if we actually think that is more true of us than what is being described here,。
something is off in our spiritual understanding of belief.。
Because what happens here is that when we find ourselves indulging a faith life that。
is boring, is we start looking for something else that will give us the thrill it has not。
offered.。
That's what it means when it says, "We pursue the food that perishes."。
That's why so many of you, you job hop to keep yourself excited, you seek social validation。
from your friends online, you binge watch that show that caught your interest, you indulge。
a little retail therapy for a micro high, you travel to new places for the sake of novelty,。
and you eat your feelings to cope with difficulty.。
But here's the thing, although those things are not inherently bad, those things are not。
nearly enough.。
They're perishing.。
And here's the sad irony of it.。
If you're listening here tonight, you need to take this down, because if you consume。
that which is perishing, you will become that which is perishing.。
That's exactly what happens.。
You see, we find in these people a dissatisfaction with their lives, a blip of gratification。
as Jesus fills them with loaves, and so they come starving for more.。
And yet Jesus, not wanting to feed that addiction, he starts telling them about where genuine。
satisfaction is found.。
So it's interesting.。
It was several months ago, I was watching "The Tonight Show," and Jimmy Fallon had on。
an artist.。
And this artist is one of the top five, top 10 performers in the world.。
Like this person has won multiple Grammys, starred in major movies, performed for millions.。
She is by all accounts what the world would call a success.。
And yet as I sat there and I watched her, I remember thinking to myself, as she was。
being interviewed, that's not a human that's thriving.。
That's a human that's perishing, because I don't necessarily see a person.。
What I see is a brand, I see an icon, I see a symbol.。
And because that is who she's become, she looks miserable.。
That's what happens.。
When you consume what perishes, you become what perishes.。
That's why if you're here and you feel like you are perishing yourself, you need to stop。
trusting in stuff to give you what only God can give you.。
You got to stop treating Jesus like he's supplemental to your life, and you got to start treating。
Jesus like he's actually central to your life.。
If I came up to you and I asked you, "Do you believe in the gospel?"。
You would say, "Yes, I bet my eternity on it."。
Then why do you calculate your devotion and supplement your faith with the things of this。
world?。
If you're pinning forever and always on him, stop depending on what the world wants to。
offer you right now.。
We got to stop treating him as supplemental, we got to start treating him as central.。
Which I know, in a room like this, it sends a bunch of my type A friends into a frenzy.。
You want to know, "How do I do it, Kylan?。
I'm in.。
I want to make sure I can figure it out.。
I'll take some notes down.。
Just give me the steps.。
Tell me the instructions.。
I'm ready."。
If that's you, you're asking the same thing that these people asked, because it tells。
us in verse 28, they asked, "What must we do to be doing the works of God?。
What do we do?。
How do we get this life that you're talking about, Jesus?"。
Then look at what he says.。
He answered them, "This is the work of God, because you can do no work to get this life.。
That gives you too much credit and me not enough.。
This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has sent."。
How do you get the abundant life that Jesus is offering?。
You believe.。
You believe, which I know can feel frustrating, because some of you are sitting here, believers。
in Jesus, and it doesn't feel like belief is enough.。
You want something to do.。
You want some steps to take.。
You want a how-to manual to follow, but if that's you, listen to me, because this is。
really important.。
You are in danger of just wanting the joy of Jesus instead of the Jesus of the joy,。
because that's the issue with the crowds in Capernaum.。
They want instructions on how to get the genie to come out of his bottle and give them the。
life they want, as opposed to a relationship with the Son of God who wants to give them。
the life they need.。
You are in danger if you just want the how-to, because it does not depend on you.。
It depends on him.。
He's the one that has made eternal life possible for you, and yet what you're trying to do。
is you're trying to separate the fullness of life from the one that actually makes life。
full.。
You cannot have this flourishing life, bursting with joy, without Christ.。
Just to help you understand, it would be like going to your favorite artist's concert.。
I don't know who that is, Taylor Swift, The Weeknd, Olivia Deen, Cody Johnson, whoever。
it is.。
You would go so excited.。
You're going to walk in.。
It's going to be everything you thought.。
Lots of passion, great energy, tons of hype, and yet they're not performing.。
That would make no sense.。
That would be so dumb, almost as dumb as expecting your soul to be satisfied, apart from the。
only one who can actually satisfy it.。
But that's what they do.。
So they said to him, "What sign do you do that we may see and believe you?。
What word do you perform?。
Our fathers, they ate the manna in the wilderness, as it's written, 'He gave them bread from。
heaven to eat.'"。
You see, they don't trust Jesus.。
They turn it back on him.。
They want him to prove himself.。
And so Jesus said to him, "Truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you。
the bread from heaven, but it was my Father who gave that bread and gives you the true。
bread from heaven, gives me, for the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and。
gives life to the world."。
They said to him, "Sir, give us this bread always."。
Do you hear it?。
The desperation in their voice, "Give us this bread."。
The starvation in their soul.。
And so famously, Jesus says in 35, "I am the bread of life, ego imi, I am the very name。
of God, which he declared to Moses at that bush that once burnt, but was not consumed."。
Jesus says, "I am the same, the bread of life.。
Whatever comes to me shall not hunger and whoever believes in me shall never thirst."。
It's interesting.。
We read this story and we think to ourselves that the crowds, they're the really unreasonable。
group for not believing in Jesus.。
And yet Jesus is the one that's being really unreasonable if you think about it.。
Because he just made an extraordinary claim.。
Like, can you imagine if someone came up to you and was like, "Hey bro, the fulfillment。
that you want to find in your job, that's found in me."。
"Hey man, the intimacy that you want to find with your wife or your husband, that's found。
in me."。
"Hey, the sort of rest you want to get whenever you go on vacation, that's found in me."。
"The security you think a bigger paycheck is going to promise you, that's found in me."。
We would look at that person and say, "You're crazy.。
You're out of your mind.。
Get away from me."。
We would be absolutely disturbed because that's a disturbing claim.。
It's outrageous.。
It's audacious for anybody but God, which he is.。
He says so in verse 37, says, "All that the Father gives me, they'll come to me and whoever。
comes to me, I'll never cast out, for I have come down from heaven, there it is, not to。
do my own will, but the will of him who sent me.。
And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he's given。
me, but raise it up on the last day, for this is the will of my Father, that everyone who。
looks on the son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I'll raise him up on。
the last day."。
Do you hear what he's saying?。
The kind of life that you're wanting for, the kind of life that we're talking about,。
this abundant, fulfilling, thriving sort of life, that life, it is available only in Jesus,。
which means everyone is starving for what only Christ can give.。
Everyone is starving for what only Christ can give, because here's the crazy trap that。
we fall into, even though Christ has just made it so very clear that it is in me that。
you will find satisfaction.。
We often don't look to where he says it's found, but we look back to where we thought。
it was found before.。
We go back to the bottle.。
We go back to some dude's apartment.。
We go back to binge eating, back to peer approval.。
We go back to whatever lie has duped you into thinking that a little bit more this time。
will curb your appetite, when in reality, that only ever leaves you wanting.。
And listen, I'm not mad at you for this.。
I want more for you than this, but I'm not mad at you for it, because the truth of the。
matter is, society has really indulged this concept.。
If you just look across the landscape of our country, you consider the rest of the globe,。
you read the headlines, and you look at the footnotes, what you will see is our world。
is becoming increasingly polarized.。
Everybody finds themselves on one end of the spectrum, one extreme or the other, and the。
reason they're doing that is because they realize, "We got to up the ante, man.。
We got to turn the heat up a little bit.。
We've got to push all of the chips in because what used to satisfy isn't satisfying anymore,。
and so we've got to make sure that we're really dialing this thing up, and we're pushing the。
envelope to help people believe satisfaction can be found right here, right now."。
We see it all over the place.。
That's why you show up to a date, and that person doesn't even look like what they appeared。
in their profile.。
That's why you go on social media, but instead of it being an accurate reflection of what's。
happening in someone's life, it's just a series of their own personal highlights.。
That's why pornography, it has become more and more fringe.。
If you think about reality TV, it doesn't seem like there's a normal cast out there。
anywhere.。
They are all the most extreme personalities.。
If you think about political candidates, they have increasingly radical positions, and if。
you even think about the stories you tell, aren't we always embellishing the truth?。
We have found ourselves, everyone, everywhere, in every way, pushing the envelope because。
we are starving for satisfaction that is not found in experiences, it's not found in romance,。
it's not found in success.。
It is found in Christ.。
It's in him and him alone that you'll be satisfied.。
Psalm 36, 7, 8 says, "How precious is your steadfast love, O God.。
The children of mankind, they take refuge in the shadow of your wings.。
They feast on the abundance of your house, and you give them drink from the river of。
your delights."。
River of your delights?。
I'll take a swim in that.。
Psalm 63, 3-5, "Because your steadfast love is better than life, my lips will praise you,。
so I will bless you as long as I live.。
In your name I will lift up my hands.。
My soul will be satisfied as with fat and rich food."。
I always think of like a Wagyu rabbi, a ribeye, not rabbi, ribeye, marbled, delicious, seared。
to medium rare, fat and rich food, and my mouth will praise you with joyful lips.。
Psalm 34, 8 says, "Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good.。
Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him.。
Oh, fear the Lord, you his saints, for those who fear him, they have no lack."。
This is the one.。
The young lion's hustle culture suffers want and hunger, but those who seek the Lord, they。
lack no good thing.。
Not just no thing, no good thing.。
Their soul is starving, is starving, and it's starving for him.。
So why don't you believe it?。
Because I think we fall prey to this misbelief that Christianity is not about the satisfaction。
of life, but the suppression of it.。
I think that's how we view our Christian experience, and who can blame you for thinking that?。
Like you traded in ragers for quiet times, bottle service for boredom, exhilaration for。
subjugation, golf trips for guilt trips, and power fits for Sunday fits, but can I just。
tell you something, that is not the life that Christ came to give you.。
But somewhere along the way, that is the life that you have chosen to settle into.。
Aren't you sick of it?。
Don't you want more for yourself?。
The difference between all that was meant for you and all you have right now is you。
actually growing frustrated about it.。
You actually feeling discontent about it.。
You see, the truth of the matter is, many of you, you feel burned out on Christianity。
because you've never actually burned for Christ.。
It's not that you have too much passion, you have too little passion, and so we have to。
find ourselves moving to a place where we look at the landscape of our faith and we。
say, "Enough!。
I will not deal with this like this any longer.。
Jesus, you have promised more in your book, and I want what is promised there, not what。
I am experiencing here.。
And I don't just think that this is intellectual, I don't just believe I'm supposed to know。
what this says, I think I'm supposed to live it in my life.。
That's what's available to us.。
I remember, it was several years ago, I hit this spot myself.。
I grew up in the church, I was saved at 14, by 18 I decided I wanted to walk in personal。
relationship with Jesus because I realized I could know Him as a father knows a son.。
I got involved in college with my church, I started serving in a big ministry, I was。
working in corporate America until God called me out of it and put me into full-time vocational。
ministry.。
I finally got to preach my first sermon, and as I worked in the church, I realized, "Goodness。
gracious, all joy is found in you, but why is there no joy in me?。
Why don't I have any of that, oh God?"。
And in the gracious way He works through His word, He took me to John 15 and He told me,。
"As the fathers loved me, so I've loved you, abide, stay connected to my love.。
If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love.。
Just as I've kept my Father's commandments and I abide in His love, these things I've。
spoken to you that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full."。
Listen, joy does not depend on the extent of your activity, it depends on the extent。
of your proximity.。
You gotta get close to Christ, you gotta get close to Him.。
That's why there's only one call to action in this entire passage from Jesus, which is。
come, come to me, get in here, stop believing the lie that once you finally become someone,。
once you finally become a C-suite executive or a husband or a wife, whenever you finally。
reach the title of doctor or you become more attractive or you reach seven figures in your。
company before anybody else ever could, you'll actually feel satisfied.。
That is a lie, it's not true.。
He is the only one that can actually satisfy to you.。
So come to Him, but the call is clear.。
But hear me, Dallas, hear me, Porch Live, the danger is real.。
Because though they heard the same call, they did not receive it.。
That's what we see as we read along.。
These people who are so acquainted with Him, the same way we're so acquainted with Him,。
we come here and we sing these songs and we take good notes and we talk to our Christian。
friends and we know how to answer the pressing questions.。
Those people who look like us people, they miss Him entirely.。
And it says in verse 41, "So the Jews grumbled about Him because He said, 'I'm the bread。
that came down from heaven.'。
They said, 'Is not this Jesus, son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know?'"。
And that's the guy that we know Him.。
He's from the neighborhood.。
We know His upbringing.。
We know His backstory.。
We know those quirky, awkward moments that He had like the rest of us.。
We know what He does for a living.。
We know that He worked with His father.。
We know that His mother was scandalous with the way in which He was conceived.。
How does He now then say, "I have come down from heaven"?。
For the sake of time, we can't read 43 through 59.。
You should go read it yourself, but it just extrapolates so much of what Jesus is impressing。
here because over the course of that, what He's really saying is how one can live, can。
truly live in no other way but to partake of the bread of life.。
You see, obviously, Jesus is using a figure of speech whenever He says to eat of the bread.。
That was a common metaphor in Jesus' day, to eat and drink.。
It's a common figure of speech in our own day.。
We say things like, "Let me chew on that for a moment.。
That's a tough pill to swallow.。
That's some food for thought."。
Some of you, you're guilty of being spoon-fed.。
You know who you are.。
What's the point that Jesus is trying to make?。
The same point that Brooke, my wife, is trying to make whenever she sets dinner before us.。
It's time to eat.。
It's not time to tell her it smells good, not time to tell her I admire the plating。
arrangement.。
It's not the time to respond to what's on the menu.。
It's not the time to tell her that I've door dashed my own thing, even though she's already。
set the table.。
It's not the time for any of that.。
It is the time to respond to the invitation and be satisfied.。
Jesus says, "Eat the bread.。
Don't know the bread.。
Don't admire the bread.。
Don't share the bread.。
Don't even taste of the bread.。
Eat of the bread."。
Why?。
Because it is when you take something external from yourself and you make it internal to。
you, you assimilate it into your body that you can be nourished by it and you can be。
then filled.。
That's how this works.。
That's why he uses bread.。
What he says is that if you eat the bread, you will live forever.。
That's what verse 51 says.。
But tragically, that's not what they do.。
Verse 60, it tells us, "When many of his disciples heard it, they said, 'This is a hard saying.。
Who can listen to it?'"。
And then in verse 66, it says, "After this, many of his disciples, they turned back and。
they no longer walked with him."。
Notice it says "many disciples," it doesn't say "many foes," it doesn't say "many adversaries,"。
it doesn't say "many opponents," it doesn't say "many challengers," it says "many disciples,"。
people that were familiar with him, people that even follow him, they were the ones that。
walked away, which can be really alarming in a room like this because it does beg the。
question, "If they walked away, can I walk away?。
Can I lose my salvation?"。
To anyone that is asking that question, let me give you a confident answer, "No, you cannot."。
Because even from this passage, Jesus tells them that you cannot lose your salvation.。
He says in verse 39, "And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing。
of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day."。
Your salvation does not depend on your works.。
It did not before you placed your faith, and it doesn't depend after you place your faith.。
He will not lose any of those that the Father gives to him.。
So it raises another question, "How then were these disciples able to walk away?。
What is this talking about?"。
This is what it means.。
It means you can follow Jesus and not believe in Jesus.。
You can follow Jesus but not believe in Jesus.。
And there are examples throughout the Scripture, there are examples all across culture, and。
there are examples throughout history too.。
Sam Harris has publicly said that Jesus' ethical teachings, especially around his compassion。
and his forgiveness, they contain profound moral insight, even though Sam is openly atheist。
and rejects Jesus' miracles, divinity, and resurrection.。
Yuval Noah Harari describes Jesus as one of history's most influential moral revolutionaries,。
despite denying that Jesus is the Son of God.。
History books would tell us that Thomas Jefferson famously admired Jesus' ethics, even to the。
point of creating the Jefferson Bible, which I don't recommend, despite rejecting that。
Jesus' supernatural claims were real, as were his messianic ones.。
And then Mahatma Gandhi said that he was impacted specifically by Jesus' Sermon on the Mount,。
but Gandhi didn't accept Christianity's exclusive truth claims or Christ's divinity.。
It's all over culture.。
Last night, man, I was prepping this message, thinking about you all.。
And I saw this interview segment of Elon Musk being asked, "And who's influenced you most?。
Who do you most admire?"。
And he said, "The Creator."。
Elon Musk?。
He's given props to Creator God?。
It was so scandalous.。
The woman was like, "Hold on one second.。
Can you clarify that for me?"。
And he was like, "Yeah, I believe everything came from someplace, and I think the most。
logical place is God."。
In other interviews, he openly admits to agreeing with the principles that Jesus advocated,。
though he's never openly admitted to Christ as Lord.。
Do you see it?。
What do all of these people have in common?。
They admire him, but they don't desire him.。
You just admire him, or do you actually desire him?。
Because here's the thing, a lack of desire, it is often indicative of a lack of belief.。
And so if you're here and you feel like you want for everything else, but you don't really。
actually want for Jesus, then what you need to do is you need to begin to evaluate.。
You need to begin to self-assess.。
You need to even question yourself and consider, "Do I genuinely believe?"。
Because here's the truth.。
You can want forgiveness.。
You can want heaven.。
You can want community.。
You can want freedom from guilt.。
You can want a Christian nation and a godly husband or wife and still not believe in Christ.。
It's ill-advised for people like me on platforms like this to ever bring people to a place。
where they question their salvation.。
I think some of us need to actually question our salvation tonight.。
I think some of us actually need to consider that question worth asking because that question。
is capable of answering.。
It's not as intimidating as you think.。
It's not as taboo as people suspect.。
It's actually the very question that Jesus himself asks at the end of this story.。
He looks at his disciples in verse 67, and he says, "Do you want to go away as well?"。
He looks at them, and he questions their belief.。
Your answer to that question, "What do you want?"。
That will tell you everything you need to know about the state of your belief.。
Because here's the tragedy of this story, and it is a tragedy that many of us face in。
our own stories.。
People can meet the bread of life, and they can walk away hungry, but the beauty of this。
story is that you don't have to.。
Peter says in 68, "Lord, to whom shall we go?。
You have the words of eternal life, and we have believed, and we've come to know that。
you are the holy one of God."。
You want to know if you actually believe?。
Will you come to him when the whole world is walking away?。
How do you know if you're saved?。
Will I come to him when the whole world walks away?。
There's lots of scripture to assure your salvation, but I cannot know the state of your belief.。
Only you can.。
And so it's worth you asking, "Do I want him?"。
Some of you, you're here, and you're like, "I feel so spiritually dry.。
I feel so spiritually depressed.。
I feel so spiritually despondent.。
I don't want him, but I want to want him."。
That's good news.。
That's the spirit working inside of you saying, "Yes, come on, there's something better."。
And you see it.。
You long for it.。
Others of you, you're not sure because you're guilty of sin, not just within the last week,。
but within the last hour.。
And yet you feel this nagging conscience, this prick in your chest.。
That's the Holy Spirit working.。
That's the evidence of God in your life sealing you unto salvation and saying, "There's a。
better way.。
You don't need to worry about what—you don't need to worry about paying the price for this。
sin I've paid for it, but let's not walk in it any longer.。
Let's go together.。
Let's find a better way instead."。
There is assurance for you, but only you can know the state of your belief, but here's。
how you'll discern it.。
Where do your desires direct you?。
When the invitation's extended, "Come to me," will you actually take him up on the offer?。
When we walked into the apartment at the end of that grocery store run, we had everything。
that we wanted, but we realized, my brother and I, we hadn't collected anything that we。
actually needed.。
And yet I would look at you and I would say, "That shopping cart spree, it was a success,"。
because as we sifted through all of the items that we had collected through our selfishness。
and short-sightedness, we began to pull out stuff that we had no recollection of ever。
putting in the cart.。
We saw things that we needed, laundry detergent, deodorant, dish soap, cases of water, because。
though we did not want them for ourselves, there was my brother-in-law and my sister。
quietly following behind and wanting for them for us.。
They loaded us with what we needed.。
Though we had moved towards what we wanted in that moment, they knew what we would want。
down the road.。
And the beauty of it is it all came at cost to them.。
He has done the same for you, friend.。
He knows what you need.。
And so he comes to you, the starving soul, and he says, "Feast on me, feast on me, and。
find for yourself life and life everlasting."。
Christ, the bread of life, he came to those who are hungry.。
Are you hungry?。
Then answer the call and come to him.。
Let me pray that you would.。
Oh Lord, this is a confrontational passage, and I don't want to shy away from the truth。
of that reality, because Jesus, I believe, hear me, Dallas, right now, Porch Live, right。
now, Jesus wants to confront you.。
He wants to do it for your good.。
He wants to call you to himself.。
He wants you to make a decision and then stand on that decision.。
He wants you to believe like you've never believed.。
He doesn't want you to burn out.。
He wants you to burn for him.。
He doesn't want you to feel like your passions are too much.。
He wants you to feel like your passions are not enough, but in him, they all can be satisfied.。
Oh Jesus, I can want it for them, but God, I can't give it to them.。
Oh God, I want it for them.。
To wake up, to be shaken loose, to be disturbed in their inner man or inner woman that God,。
for the sake of your glory and their own good, they might respond and take you up on the。
offer.。
God, I think about that passage of your disciples turning and walking with you no longer.。
Oh God, would we not turn from you and walk the other way?。
Would we turn from our sin and walk to you instead?。
Let this be a defining moment, oh God.。
Let us be a people that are not just filled with amazement, but filled with repentance,。
oh God.。
Let us be a generation here in the city of Dallas, all across this country that says,。
"Yes, my soul is starving, but oh, my Savior is fulfilling."。
We want to respond, oh Jesus.。
We want your spirit to stir.。
We want to be different.。
We want to be changed.。
We want to be satisfied.。
So satisfy us, oh God.。
We believe in you, oh bread of life.。
Come here and meet the hungry in Christ's name, amen.。
Hey porch, let's stand to our feet.。
I'm not fabricating anything in this moment.。
I'm not fishing for some kind of response.。
I think there's a lot of fear in these moments of being driven by emotionalism.。
I hope this moment's emotional.。
I think there's a lot of fear of these moments being sensational.。
I hope this one is too.。
I hope that this is experiential for you, that you can encounter a love that's not just。
good in thought, but felt in heart.。
We're going to respond here now, and the truth of the matter is, as we have seen the last。
two weeks, this altar is open.。
Some of you need to come down, and you need to believe the words we sang earlier, and。
we're going to sing again, that there's no waste at the altar.。
Why is that?。
Because anything the world would say is waste, Christ looks at it and says it's worship.。
So maybe you need to come down, and you need to kneel, and you need to surrender some things.。
That's what happens at the altar.。
You go to the altar, and you put something there to die.。
Why don't we put our lives on the altar, and say, "Oh Christ, that I might live, let me。
die here tonight."。
Maybe you need prayer, and you need to repent.。
These people, as well as leaders across this room, are ready to receive you, but let us。
respond.。
Let us receive the invitation.。
Come Christ, come spirit, move now.。
Amen.。
