[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Love it.。
Check, check.。
There we go.。
Hey, welcome, friends.。
Man, this group is excited.。
This--。
[APPLAUSE]。
I'm just confused.。
Thank you.。
Good night, everybody.。
Thank you.。
Hey, take a seat.。
Hey, we are continuing this series.。
If you're joining us from elsewhere,。
you're confused like I am.。
And we are so excited to continue this series,。
asking for a friend.。
And welcome in the room.。
Welcome in Fort Worth, El Paso, Houston,。
wherever you are joining us from as we continue this series.。
Man, you guys, that was great.。
It was clothes in prayer.。
Hey, let me start by saying this.。
Before I got married, there were certain purchases。
that were allowed in my life.。
And one of them was I, at some point in time,。
was into remote control helicopters.。
Gentlemen, that's going to go.。
But at that time in my life, I was single.。
I had gone and purchased one.。
And I had brought it home.。
And it was this enormous one that, for some reason,。
I was really excited about.。
And I purchased it.。
And I had a friend that was hanging out that night.。
And I was like, dude, let's go fly this thing。
and see how far and how fast and how well it flies.。
So we go outside.。
We take it out.。
And we begin to fly this helicopter.。
And things are going fine.。
And I'm controlling it.。
And it's up in the air.。
And I begin to realize, I'm not sure I。
have control over this thing.。
I'm moving the buttons around.。
And it's not corresponding with the things。
that I am moving my hands around.。
And I begin to realize that this thing, it's。
just beginning to take off.。
It's got a mind of its own.。
True story.。
And it's just going off, kind of aimlessly。
flying through the air.。
And it's sailing past.。
For whatever reason, it had gotten disconnected。
from the controller.。
This thing was trying to guide it.。
So I just began taking off, running after it。
to try to get back within distance to allow the signal.。
You would think it would just drop out of the air.。
It didn't drop out of the air.。
Probably because I bought it at Walmart.。
But this thing just took off.。
And nothing against Walmart.。
But it just took off and began flying.。
And I'm chasing over.。
And it begins to go over the houses behind our house。
and past some trees.。
And it's gone.。
And I'm like, what just happened?。
So we get in my buddy's truck.。
And we just begin driving up and down the alleys.。
And I'm holding the remote out the window,。
hoping that we're going to cross some house.。
And I'm going to reconnect with the signal。
and be able to pick this thing back up.。
Because I know it's either still flying somewhere,。
or it's in someone's backyard.。
But eventually, it's going to run out of batteries.。
Or it's going to get run over if it lands on the street.。
And all the fun that was to be had。
was not going to take place.。
And so we spend the next few hours trying to do that.。
But the reason I start there is because in that scenario, what。
had happened was this helicopter--。
this is such a ridiculous story--。
this helicopter had lost connection with the controller,。
with this thing that was supposed to guide it。
and direct it to be providing instructions on where to go.。
And in doing so, it just kind of spiraled out of control,。
began to wander aimlessly, eventually ran out of batteries.。
So never found it.。
True story.。
It was like, one hit wonder.。
There we go.。
And in being disconnected from kind。
of the source of instruction, which was just the controller,。
and disconnected from the source of guidance or something。
to guide it, it just spiraled out of control.。
And eventually, ran out of batteries。
somewhere, on somebody's house or something.。
But it was no longer connected to something。
that was there to provide it direction and guidance.。
Now, what does that have to do with what。
we're talking about tonight?。
When you open the Bible, the way that the Bible talks。
about itself-- in other words, the way。
that the scriptures speak of itself--。
is that they are to be much like a control--。
or controller in that situation--。
a source of direction and guidance in your life。
to keep you from aimlessly wandering,。
to keep you from eventually just burning out and running out。
of energy, to keep you from not experiencing the purpose you。
were created for.。
That the Bible is there not to be。
a source of control in your life,。
but a source of guidance inside of your life。
to protect you from spiraling out of control,。
just like that helicopter in that situation.。
This is what the churches always really。
believe, that the Bible and New Testament,。
the writings of the scripture in general,。
are there to lead us to life, to be a source of guidance。
and direction in our life.。
Tonight, as we continue this series,。
we're going to talk about why you and I can trust the Bible,。
why believers can trust the Bible.。
Because just like in that scenario,。
or just like the Bible tells about itself,。
if you're not--。
if we can't trust the Bible--。
in other words, if it's not true,。
if it's not really a source of guidance inside of our life,。
and we can't trust the words that it says,。
there is a lot at stake.。
Not just eternity, as if that wasn't enough,。
of eternally in heaven or eternally in hell.。
In other words, if the Bible is not true,。
it's not trustworthy, it's not reliable,。
then there is not just eternal life at stake,。
there's this life at stake.。
There's meaning, purpose, a relationship with God,。
direction in life, the point of you knowing。
or experiencing, having an understanding。
of what life is all about.。
If the Bible, if we can't trust that, all of that is gone.。
If we can't trust the Bible, really, candidly,。
all we're doing right now is wasting our time.。
And so there's a lot at stake.。
In other words, there's a lot better things.。
There's like margarita deals on Tuesday night,。
there's a lot better things we could do on a Tuesday night。
if the Bible is not true, and we should probably。
shut this thing down and get on with it.。
But if it is true, then there is no length,。
we cannot go far enough to live by it,。
to allow it to guide our life, because if it is true,。
it says it is a source of guidance from God himself,。
who wants to lead you and I to life,。
who doesn't wanna rip you off, is not sitting around。
being like, man, I just really wanna control you。
and keep you from fun.。
He's a God who wants you to experience。
the greatest life possible.。
And so we're gonna talk about, hey, can you trust the Bible?。
Because if we can't, everything's lost.。
And so why and how can Christians trust the Bible?。
So we're gonna look at five things, really, five Ps。
that will be a starting point for why Christians。
trust the Bible, 'cause we live in a world,。
I live in the same world that you do,。
that constantly is saying, hey, you know,。
the Bible's been changed over time,。
it's been translated so many times,。
can we really know what it says?。
There's so many different interpretations of it,。
who really knows?。
Wasn't it written by men?。
I mean, are we sure that this is the words of God?。
I mean, I'm sure there's some great stories in there,。
but can we really trust it?。
And I'm gonna do my best to present the evidence。
that God has made it abundantly clear,。
history has showcased that it is abundantly clear。
that God's word can, should, and must be trusted.。
So we're gonna look at five principles, if you will,。
around why Christians trust the Bible.。
And they kind of build on one another.。
So if you take notes, you can write the five things。
why Christians trust the Bible.。
The first will just be a launching pad,。
end of the conversation is establishing the fact。
about what the Bible professes to be.。
The first thing is, what does the Bible profess about itself?。
In other words, what does the Bible say that it is?。
Here's what the Bible says.。
In 2 Timothy, I'm sorry, 2 Peter 1, verses 20 and 21,。
Peter writes and he says this,。
"That no prophecy of scripture," that's the Bible,。
"comes from someone's own interpretation.。
"No prophecy was ever produced by the will of man,。
"but men spoke from God as they were carried along。
"by the Holy Spirit."。
What are you saying, Peter?。
Peter is saying that the way that the Bible was recorded。
was that God directed man to write down certain things。
and certain things to be included in the scripture.。
That's just what the Bible says about itself.。
In 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy chapter three, verses 16 and 17,。
Timothy says this, "All scripture is breathed out by God。
"or God-inspired, is useful for teaching, rebuking,。
"correcting, training, and righteousness,。
"so that the servant of God may be thoroughly equipped。
"for every good work."。
Now what does that prove?。
It doesn't prove anything.。
If you're going, oh man, so the Bible claims。
to be the word of God, does that prove it?。
No, I mean, you have a crazy uncle。
who claims to be a billy goat.。
It doesn't mean he's a billy goat,。
but it does establish into the conversation。
that the Bible claims to be.。
In other words, if people are like,。
I don't think the Bible ever says it's that big of a deal,。
it says it's a big deal.。
In fact, 2 Peter, or Peter, writing in 2 Peter chapter three。
later on in that same book, he further establishes。
that the New Testament writings,。
specifically the writings of Paul,。
he specifically addresses, are considered scripture.。
Here's what he says.。
I don't know if they have these verses up there.。
2 Peter chapter three, verses 15 and 16.。
Bear in mind that our Lord's patience means salvation,。
just as our dear brother Paul also wrote to you。
with the wisdom that God gave him.。
He writes in the same way in all his letters,。
speaking of these matters.。
His letters contain some things that are hard to understand,。
which ignorant and unstable people distort。
as they do the other scriptures to their own destruction.。
What are you saying?。
That's what Peter says.。
Because he really says what a lot of us,。
if you've ever read Paul's letters,。
have experienced from time to time,。
where it's like, man, what are you trying to say?。
Even Peter is like, look, I hear you've been reading Paul,。
and I get it, it's a little confusing.。
Does he realize we're fishermen?。
But at the same time, it may be a little complex,。
but it is the words of God that Peter believed。
that Paul, in his letters, was writing scripture.。
So what does that prove?。
It proves that the Bible professes to be the word of God.。
Is that conclusive evidence?。
No, but it's a starting point as we investigate。
the truth and why Christians trust the Bible.。
So the first is that it professes to be the word of God.。
The second reason that I think gives us grounds。
for why we can trust the Bible is its production.。
That's the second thing.。
The production of the scripture is unbelievable.。
If you spend any time, regardless of your faith background,。
regardless really of what you believe,。
the 66 books that make up the Bible。
that were written over 2,000 years by 40 different authors。
in three different languages on multiple continents。
that all profess the same storyline,。
that all tell of the storyline of the God。
who has made provision for humanity,。
that God in the storyline of the Bible。
is essentially God's pursuit and God's plan for redemption。
in our world of sending his own son。
to be the savior of that world.。
The Old Testament, all of it points to Jesus.。
The New Testament, all of it talks about Jesus.。
And even the production is a remarkable thing。
that it would have that same consistent message。
over thousands of years by different men。
who'd never met each other,。
who wrote in different centuries。
and yet spoke of the same storyline.。
They spoke from palaces, prisons, wildernesses,。
places of exile.。
They spoke of history, or they wrote historical books,。
law books, poetry, prophecy, proverbs,。
New Testament letters and gospel accounts,。
all with this underlying cohesive message together。
of God's plan to redeem the world。
by sending his son, Jesus.。
The Bible is not a single book, in other words.。
A lot of times you hear, man, it's just this one single book.。
It's not like Harry Potter.。
It is a collection of 66 books that God,。
throughout history, preserved。
and provided for his church to know.。
In fact, the word Bible means the books.。
That's just what la Biblia,。
or where we get that word from, the books.。
And even in the production,。
we see it smacks of divine order。
that you would have spread out over centuries。
the same message from different men。
in different languages on different continents.。
Even some of the authors in the New Testament。
are, I think, some of the strongest evidence。
for why we can trust the New Testament and what it says.。
In other words, the storyline of the guys。
who are writing the Bible,。
because I don't know if you know this,。
the guys who wrote particularly the New Testament,。
really all of it,。
they weren't straight out of vacation Bible school.。
These dudes were all guys who had a past.。
I mean, you look at 'em,。
and each one of 'em provides a convincing,。
some evidence for why, man, this could be trustworthy.。
Let's take Matthew.。
Matthew, I don't know what you know about Matthew.。
Matthew wrote the Gospel of,。
Matthew, there we go.。
This is a sharp audience.。
And Matthew was like, dude,。
he's a first century mafia member.。
That's what Matthew did.。
He's a tax collector.。
He's a guy who had no religious background,。
had nothing to do with God,。
didn't wanna have anything to do with God.。
He meets Jesus, his life becomes transformed.。
He sees his resurrected Savior, Jesus,。
and he gives his life for that Savior,。
gives his life for that message.。
A guy who did not grow up in church,。
did not wanna have anything to do with God.。
He's essentially in the mafia.。
That's what a tax collector would have been in that day.。
He encounters Jesus, everything changes.。
Who else?。
Who else has a story that would be involved there?。
Let's look at James and Jude.。
James and Jude were the baby brothers of Jesus.。
As we said before, we said recently around here。
that man, they were the baby brothers of Jesus.。
And you know what?。
They didn't believe that their brother was anything special.。
We're told even in the Gospels that like,。
hey, the family of Jesus was like,。
dude, what are you doing, Jesus?。
You're embarrassing us.。
You're claiming to be God.。
Get him back in here.。
Mom, let's bring him home.。
They did not believe.。
I mean, what would it take for you to believe。
that your sibling was the son of God?。
Think about it.。
Anybody have a sibling that are like, you know,。
they're pretty special.。
I'll be, I mean, you'd be like,。
I don't care what anyone says.。
I grew up with a guy, I know him,。
not son of God.。
Until James and Jude saw their big brother die。
and come back alive and everything changed.。
And they said, my big brother is my Messiah.。
He's my savior.。
These weren't men that always believed.。
They didn't ever believe until the resurrection。
and everything changed.。
I mean, what do you think about Paul?。
Even the New Testament author Paul smacks。
of just God's divine intervention in someone's life,。
testifying to the truth of Jesus,。
who he said he was,。
of what the scripture promised of the resurrection.。
Paul was the artist formerly known as Saul.。
Saul did not like Christians.。
Maybe you're in the room and you have had bad experiences。
around church, around Christians.。
Pales in comparison to Paul.。
Paul, or Saul, he had a name change midway through,。
he spent half of his life trying to stomp out Christianity.。
He wasn't just like, you know, I'm not a huge,。
I'm not a big religious guy.。
He was like, oh, I'm a super religious guy。
and I'm an anti-Christian guy.。
And he spent his first half of his life。
trying to stomp out Christianity.。
He oversaw the death of Christians.。
And then one day he meets Jesus and everything changed。
and God used him to write close to 3/4。
of the New Testament.。
Author after author, I mean, these weren't men。
who were just like, you know,。
I've always been a part of this。
and I really believe in the cause.。
There were men who didn't believe。
and their life was transformed.。
The production itself smacks。
of the divine intervention of our God.。
So as we continue, why do Christians believe?。
One, it's the profession.。
Two, it's production.。
Clearly seems to capture something。
extraordinary taking place.。
And then number three, it's preservation.。
This next one is remarkable to me.。
Like this is crazy.。
In other words, what do I mean by preservation?。
So New Testament is written。
and I'm gonna focus primarily on the New Testament,。
which is the second half of the Bible.。
And New Testament is written。
and all of these different letters and gospels,。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,。
and then the letters that are written inside of there.。
Because Christianity, dude, it like explodes.。
I mean, it goes from like this Jewish carpenter peasant。
who all of a sudden rises from the dead。
and things begin to take off pretty well.。
And it explodes everywhere.。
And people are coming to faith left and right.。
And it really begins to spread。
all throughout the Roman Empire.。
So what happens?。
These letters and these accounts,。
these four gospels and the letters of Paul,。
people begin to go, I want a copy of those.。
So copies are made of the letters of Paul。
and of the gospel accounts.。
And they're spread all over the place。
and copy after copy is made。
because people are like, dude,。
if I can have one of those letters,。
one of those letters, we'll read it every day in church,。
please can you get us one?。
And so these letters are all of a sudden spread。
all over the ancient world.。
We call them manuscripts or just copies.。
That's just a big word for copies.。
Now, what does this have to do with anything。
about why we can trust the Bible?。
Because the manuscripts that we have,。
if we can't trust the preservation of those manuscripts。
because of the extraordinary amount of them。
and the extraordinary quality of them,。
we can't trust any book from the ancient world.。
The manuscripts that we have,。
they are an unbelievable abundance of riches。
as it compares to we not only know what the original said,。
we have thousands and thousands of copies。
that confirm that the message of the Bible。
has not been changed.。
Copies that go back not to like,。
you know, the Da Vinci Code 400 BC,。
or I mean AD or, you know, 1000,。
go back to 90 AD.。
We have copies unlike any other ancient book of the world.。
And what do I mean by that?。
Well, let's compare it.。
We have tons of copies from the ancient world.。
You know, when you look at other books by comparison,。
let's talk about some of those.。
When you look at the, who's heard of Caesar in the room?。
Okay, good.。
I was about to make a joke.。
That would be inappropriate.。
Okay, Caesar was a guy,。
and he was the, essentially, emperor of the day.。
Caesar, there's a book called Caesar's Lives.。
If you've ever studied anything about Roman history。
and the Caesars, we have 10 manuscripts。
from which we pull all of our understanding of Caesar.。
Everything that we've ever known about Caesar,。
everything if you've ever studied in that,。
comes from 10 manuscripts.。
Who's heard of Plato?。
If you've heard of Plato in the room,。
what do we have from Plato?。
What type of copies or manuscripts do we have from him?。
Seven.。
We have seven ancient manuscripts,。
which is just pre-printing press.。
Seven from the ancient world.。
Tacitus, if you studied,。
if you were a history major like me,。
you would have studied Tacitus.。
Tacitus was the primary source。
for all Roman history that we have.。
How many copies do we have of Tacitus' writing?。
20.。
All right, well, how many do we have of the New Testament?。
You guessed it, 24,633.。
[congregation laughing]。
And you may be going like, oh man,。
is that really a fair comparison?。
I mean, maybe those are just kind of light.。
Let's look at second place.。
Second place, the most second widely documented book。
from the ancient world is Homer's Iliad,。
which has 634.。
We have 24,000 more copies of the New Testament。
than we do of the second closest book。
in all of manuscripts or copies。
from before the printing press,。
partly because of the explosion of Christianity.。
And people saw this as the living, active word of God.。
And they said, we need to hold onto this.。
We need to preserve it.。
We need to do everything that we can to protect it.。
And these aren't copies that dated years later.。
They're copies that were dated all the way back to 90 AD.。
One has been arguably dated at 60 AD,。
right around the time of when the Gospels。
and all these things were being written.。
Are there changes inside of the 24,000?。
So if you've ever heard somebody before,。
I don't know if you turn on the TV and someone's like,。
well, the Bible's been translated so many times,。
who can we really know?。
You probably have heard like,。
there's a bunch of changes。
inside of the different manuscripts.。
The bad news is there are changes.。
There's differences.。
There's thousands of differences.。
But do you know what the differences are like?。
In case it just kind of got you a little bit,。
what, there's some changes inside of there?。
Let me walk through what the differences are.。
99.5%, this comes from a New Testament,。
one of the leading New Testament papyrologists。
and New Testament scholars in the world.。
99.5%, Dan Wallace is his name,。
99.5% of the changes,。
the differences between those manuscripts,。
all fall into three categories.。
This is about to be really boring,。
what I'm about to say,。
but it's the only way I can actually answer intellectually。
to someone who's like, no, dude,。
my grandma told me the Bible's been changed.。
It hasn't been changed,。
and your grandma's wrong.。
And so stay with me.。
99.5% of any differences between those 24,000,。
guess what category?。
99.5, that's not a made up like stat.。
99.5% fall into three categories,。
spelling differences, John being spelled with two Ns.。
Oh, that's a mistake.。
That counts.。
That's the biggest difference is spelling differences.。
70% are spelling differences.。
The second one is changes that are not even translatable。
into English because they deal with the particle the.。
In other words, sometimes it said,。
hey, this one said the John loves Jesus,。
this one says John loves Jesus.。
Time out, not God's word, okay?。
Done here.。
That's what when people say, they're saying.。
And go research it for yourself.。
I mean, man, so, maybe the best encouragement。
you can leave it at night with is like,。
begin to research and think for yourself.。
Stop trusting YouTube comments that are like,。
Bible is wrong, user 09,。
and trusting that that guy's right.。
And just go research it for yourself.。
I don't know if you live,。
it feels like our world continues。
to just not paint the truth.。
Just tell us the facts and stop painting some narrative。
about how the Bible's been changed.。
It's ridiculous.。
So what about that 0.5%?。
May not be much,。
but that could be something significant, couldn't it?。
Stay with me, 'cause this is about to get even more boring.。
In grad school, we had to study that 0.5%.。
And you may be like, oh, that could be cool.。
Like, I wanna see what the big differences here are。
inside of the New Testament that have been changed.。
Let me give you a couple of them,。
because these are about as exciting as it gets.。
Here's one, comes from a manuscript。
that covers 1 Thessalonians chapter two, verse seven.。
And one manuscript says this,。
or most of them say this,。
but we were gentle among you,。
like a nursing mother taking care of her own children.。
But we found an older manuscript that says this,。
but we were like infants among you,。
like a nursing mother taking care of her children.。
In Greek, the word between gentle and infants。
is one letter difference, napiori, apiori.。
Napiori, napiori.。
And so which one is it?。
I guess we can't trust the Bible.。
We had one outlier.。
I mean, that truly is it.。
Let me give you another one.。
And go research it for yourself.。
This is another one.。
Comes from Mark chapter nine, verse 29.。
And it's Jesus replying to his disciples who were like,。
"Hey, why couldn't we cast the demon out?"。
And he said, "This type, this kind。
"can only come out by prayer."。
And then we found a manuscript out of those thousands。
that said, "This kind can only come out by prayer。
"in fasting."。
So which one is it?。
I don't, probably not a bad idea to fast.。
I don't know, but at the end of the day,。
it doesn't change anything significant.。
And even that right there, look in your Bible,。
it's footnoted.。
Some say prayer and fasting at the bottom.。
And if you're sitting there, you're like,。
experiencing what I experienced sitting in class。
in grad school, going like, "All right, dude,。
"all right, push those aside.。
"Give me the hard one.。
"I want the big one.。
"I want the one that's like, you know,。
"where's the one about Jesus being married?"。
Being like, we've all heard that from the Da Vinci Code.。
Doesn't exist.。
Where's the one about, you know,。
this one says Jesus died on a cross.。
This one says he fell off a cliff.。
Where's that one?。
Where's the one that says,。
this one had Jesus had 12 disciples.。
This one says he was a part of a biker gang.。
Where's that one?。
They don't exist.。
All of the differences are as trivial as that.。
And so the idea that, man, the Bible's been changed。
is candidly, intellectually lazy.。
It has not been changed.。
And you can not believe it for a lot of reasons.。
Jesus believing that someone can rise from the dead,。
that's a good enough reason if you can't get there.。
But to say that like it's been changed is a smokescreen。
and candidly, you've either bought propaganda。
or you're being intellectually lazy.。
Third reason, I'm sorry, the fourth reason。
why Christians can believe and trust in the Bible。
is that it is proven historically reliable。
time and time again.。
This is something else that's remarkable。
about the scriptures,。
unlike any other religious book that's out there.。
The Bible makes these predictions。
and then pulls them off over and over and over again.。
In other words, there's these things called prophecies。
inside of the Old Testament。
where there's these prophecies that are given。
and they're hundreds of years。
before the event would take place。
and then the event takes place.。
Some of the most common ones you probably have heard。
are around the life of Jesus,。
where hundreds of years before Jesus was around,。
there were 360 prophecies that he,。
one after one after one, fulfilled.。
Some of them deal with things that you have no control over,。
like where you're born.。
Him being prophesied to be born in Bethlehem,。
no one controls where they were born.。
No one can be a part of that and yet it took place.。
Other ones, even more remarkably,。
deal with how he would die.。
Why do I say even more remarkably?。
This comes from 1,000 years before Jesus was alive.。
It comes from Psalm 22 where David writes。
about Jesus being crucified.。
It says this, "A pack of villains encircles me,"。
speaking in a messianic way,。
"They pierce my hands and my feet.。
"All of my bones are on display.。
"People stare at me and gloat.。
"They divide my clothes among them。
"and cast lots for my garment."。
Reads almost identically to Matthew 27, verse 35.。
It's 1,000 years before.。
What else is even more remarkable?。
He speaks of crucifixion.。
My arms are pierced and my feet are pierced.。
This is 300 years before anyone had ever been crucified.。
It was invented in the 700s.。
The predictions that contain,。
inside of the Old Testament,。
that one after one are remarkable.。
Historically, the Bible has proven true。
over and over and over again.。
Maybe you've read the words of Isaiah.。
Isaiah, who wrote 700 plus years。
before the life of Jesus, would say this。
in Isaiah chapter 53.。
"Speaking of Jesus, he was pierced for our transgressions.。
"He was crushed for our iniquities.。
"The punishment that brought us peace was upon him,。
"and by his wounds we are healed."。
That entire passage points to Jesus.。
Hundreds of years before Jesus was ever born.。
There was a guy who was head of mathematics。
and at Pasadena College in California.。
He was head of mathematics。
and another part of the sciences.。
And he basically began to allow mathematics。
and include them into the conversation。
of what are the odds that someone would be able。
to complete eight of the Messianic prophecies。
that are there, eight of the Messianic predictions,。
let alone 360.。
What he found, or his conclusion was,。
that for someone to complete eight of them。
would be the equivalent of having the chances。
of one in 10 to the 17th power,。
or one in 100 children.。
Children.。
[laughing]。
Not children.。
One in 100 trillion.。
One in 100 trillion.。
Which would be the equivalent。
of taking the state of Texas, he says,。
filling it up about a foot and a half with quarters,。
telling someone to walk as far as they want to。
into that sea of quarters,。
having marked one and placing it in a random place,。
blindfolding them, telling them to walk as far。
in any direction as they want,。
allowed them to bend down and pick one。
out of that 100 trillion。
and the odds that they would pick it.。
And he concludes it's an undeniable fact。
of the remarkable history and prophetic conclusions。
of the prophetic completions of Christ.。
Not only that, you can even look outside of the Bible。
and see how things that were predicted in the Bible。
were even confirmed.。
This is like, this is just super nerdy,。
but let me just give you one and then we'll move on.。
Just get this off my chest here.。
Who's heard of Alexander the Great?。
Dude, this is crazy.。
Alexander the Great, he was a Greek essentially conqueror,。
by like age 30, dude takes over the world.。
And so we know Alexander went all over,。
he literally conquered the known world.。
And he went very far east, he went very far west,。
he conquered the known world.。
You know what's in the middle of the known world。
at that time?。
Jerusalem.。
And everywhere that Alexander went,。
he would make people pay things,。
a lot of times he would destroy villages,。
a lot of times he would destroy things.。
You know what happened when Alexander the Great showed up。
in 332 to Jerusalem?。
The head or high priest of the city of Jerusalem。
went out to Alexander the Great。
and he showed him Daniel chapter eight.。
And he said, we knew you were coming.。
Daniel chapter eight speaks of how there would be。
a Greek conqueror who would come into the land。
and he would take over.。
And he allowed Alexander the Great to read it。
and Alexander said, all right, have a good day,。
we're good here.。
And he allowed the city to stay intact.。
Josephus talks about this inside of his writings.。
It's not just something that has been made up,。
it's not something that's not anchored in history,。
there is more evidence for the life of Jesus.。
Outside of the Bible, then there is for the emperor。
that was around the same time that he was.。
There are 42 references outside of the Bible,。
many by non-Christians.。
There are 10 for the emperor Tiberius, think about that.。
This isn't some like, oh, we made it up,。
it's not anchored in history, think about that.。
That would be like there are 42 references。
within 150 years of President Trump or President Obama.。
There's 42 references of some dude。
from like Maybank, Texas or Nowhereville.。
And there's 42 references outside,。
but there's 10 of President Trump or President Obama,。
the leader of the land, the ruler of the known world.。
It is not something that, it is an undeniable,。
unmistakable reality of God's intervention into the world.。
The Bible has been proven historically accurate。
over and over and over again.。
There are reasons to not believe it,。
if you can't get over the resurrection,。
but the historical reliability is not one of them.。
Finally, the reason why Christians believe。
that the Bible is true is because of personal testimony.。
That's the fifth P.。
Because those of us who put our faith in Jesus。
and we've begun to live by God's word,。
we've experienced the transformation that comes。
by living according to what God's word says.。
We've experienced it when it says,。
man, it's here to give you life,。
it's here to lead you in the,。
it's here to guide you,。
like a remote control with a helicopter, it's true.。
In other words, we've experienced a life,。
personally experienced a life of what it looks like。
to experience freedom from pornography addiction,。
experience freedom from anger and bitterness,。
from past hurts, from family, divorce,。
from all the things in our past, personally for me,。
to experience freedom and increasing peace。
in the midst of a world that feeds anxiety。
and can fill that anxiety that we've experienced,。
that there is truth that contains here,。
that no amount of evidence could convince otherwise。
because we've experienced it.。
Fifth reason why Christians believe in the scriptures。
is because of our personal experience。
and personal testimony with it.。
All over this room right now, there's men and women。
who by the thousands have experienced。
the transforming truths that contain in God's word.。
They've experienced it in their own life.。
I was talking with a friend, a new friend,。
I just met tonight, earlier this evening,。
and he was saying about how a year and a half ago,。
we came, he trusted in Jesus, he trusted in Christ here,。
he was depressed, he was addicted,。
he was miserable and lonely, he said.。
He trusted in Jesus, began to live by God's word。
and his life began to change.。
It's happening all around you.。
People don't come to the porch because we give opinions.。
And if you do, the day we do, stop coming.。
We try to just open God's word and say,。
man, he's preserved it throughout history for us.。
He's a God who entered into human history for us,。
who displayed his love perfectly for us on a cross,。
who preserved his teachings,。
who gave us the strength to live in order to tell us。
and to guide us to life.。
The personal testimony that we've experienced,。
which may be the strongest, candidly, inside of the room.。
Here's what I know.。
If you're inside of the room, you're like, man,。
I just don't know that the Bible is true.。
Man, I would love to talk with you.。
I'd love to speak with you.。
Because usually, most of the time, it's a smoke screen.。
Let's be honest.。
It's not like, oh, the Bible's been changed, is your deal.。
It's not true.。
And that's why you don't want the Bible.。
That's candidly why most of the conversations with family。
over Thanksgiving where people are like,。
you know, it's been changed,。
is because they're afraid it may require them to change.。
So they don't want it to be true.。
Not because of some convincing teaching。
that provided that it was true.。
In conclusion, the Bible declares, it is the word of God.。
Its production and its preservation smacks of it.。
It is anchored in history like no other work is,。
and it is transforming the lives of everyone。
who applies it and lives by it.。
I took that helicopter back, and I'll close here.。
And I took it, well, I didn't have the helicopter.。
I had the remote.。
And I took it back to the store,。
and I explained what happened.。
And I was like, this is all I got.。
And they said, huh, man, that's bizarre.。
And they gave me another one.。
They were like, we'll give you a second one.。
I don't really know why they decided to do that.。
Maybe just 'cause it's Walmart, and that's it.。
But they gave it just a second chance.。
If you're in the room,。
and you've been kind of hiding on this cloud of like,。
man, do I really trust the Bible?。
Can I really believe it?。
I'm just gonna keep living for myself.。
This is God screaming at you.。
This is your second chance.。
He's not angry at you.。
He's crazy about you.。
And he wants to make sure that you know it.。
He wants you to know it so badly, he died in your place.。
He wants you to know his love for you so badly,。
he wrote it so that you would never have to wonder.。
And he's anchored it in history.。
And this is your second chance.。
He's not here to rip you off.。
He's here to lead you to life.。
And you have been sold a lie.。
If you think the God of the universe。
is out there being like, I don't want anyone to have fun.。
You have been sold a lie.。
He's a God who made you, who loves you, who died for you.。
And he wants to allow anyone who will accept his son。
in his death and resurrection in your place。
to experience that new life.。
And he wants to guide you to it through his word,。
through his people, and through his spirit.。
Let me pray.。
(congregation murmuring)。
Father, thank you for the amazing gift。
of your scripture.。
Father, I just confess for all the times。
that I have not seen it as an amazing gift。
and I haven't taken advantage of it.。
How many millions or billions of people。
throughout the ages would have given anything。
to have a Bible and they fill my home。
and they fill my desk and they fill shelves.。
Often unused.。
Father, would you make us people who live by your word?。
Because we've encountered your son。
who all of the scripture and all of your word points to.。
I pray for anyone in this room right now。
who's never had a moment where they trusted in Christ.。
They never had a moment where they came to accept Jesus。
as their savior, that you would stretch out。
your hand right now.。
You would move them past the excuses。
and move them past all the different reasons。
that they tell themselves about why they can't believe。
that it's true, and they would at least begin。
to seek answers.。
Because there's a God who wants to know them.。
And whether they realize it or not, they want to know.。
Father, thank you that you have revealed yourself。
and you will lead us to life if we will let you.。
We love you, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
