[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[HEART BEATING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[HEART BEATING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[HEART BEATING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[HEART BEATING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[HEART BEATING]。
Psalm 16.。
Keep me, save my God, for in you I take refuge.。
I say to the Lord, you are my Lord.。
Apart from you, I have no good thing.。
I say to the holy people who are in the land,。
they are the noble ones in whom is my delight.。
Those who run after other gods will suffer more and more.。
I will not pour out libations of blood to such gods。
or take their names upon my lip.。
Lord, you alone are my portion and my cup.。
You make my lot secure.。
The boundary lines have fallen for me in pleasant places.。
Surely I have a delightful inheritance.。
I will praise you, the Lord, who counsels me.。
Even at night, my heart instructs me.。
I keep my eyes always on the Lord.。
With him at my right hand, I will not be shaken.。
Therefore, my heart is glad and my tongue rejoices.。
My body also will rest secure, because you will not。
abandon me to the realm of the dead,。
nor will you let your faithful one see decay.。
You make known to me the path of life.。
You will fill me with joy in your presence,。
with eternal pleasures at your right hand.。
The word of the Lord, let me pray.。
Father, this is your kingdom.。
May your kingdom come.。
May you reign on earth as you do in heaven.。
May you fill our hearts.。
Would you capture every person in the room,。
our hearts and minds, and help us to be better lovers。
of you, better, have greater knowledge of you.。
Would you increase our affections for you。
as we leave this place, Lord?。
Will we leave here more in love with you,。
more faithful people, ready to do your will?。
Would you just set our hearts on fire tonight, God,。
as we teach from this ancient writing。
that you scribe through a great king,。
a king who is a man after your heart.。
Father, would you teach us more about your character,。
who you are, and what you've done for us?。
Would you show us Jesus tonight, Lord?。
Help us to see Jesus tonight and worship him, Lord,。
for your glory and your fame and your honor.。
In Christ's name, amen, amen.。
Porch, it's great to be with you guys.。
Really fun worshiping with you.。
Thank you so much for filling out that survey.。
We do that not to sell your information,。
but honestly, just to be better ministers to you,。
to know who you are and where you're at。
so we can serve you better.。
So that's why it's important.。
Did you guys have a good Thanksgiving?。
(congregation cheering)。
Awesome, man, awesome.。
Did y'all do the Black Friday deal afterwards?。
- Yes. - No.。
Some say yes, some say no.。
We weren't going to this year.。
We've done it before.。
I've done the whole 4 a.m. thing,。
tried to get a TV $200 cheaper or something.。
But this year, we weren't going to.。
But my mom was in town, and so we were there.。
So she was watching the kids.。
And she was like, "You and Monica should go shopping."。
It was Friday, Friday after Thanksgiving.。
I had on my fat pants, my elastic band, joggers.。
You have to, right?。
And so anyways, we're like,。
I don't know why I told you guys that,。
but just living authentically.。
And so then we were like,。
"Okay, well, let's go check it out."。
And so she and I go to Toys R Us,。
and we're there, and a park and everything.。
And there's a part of me that's like,。
"Oh, there's nothing we need.。
"We don't need to do Christmas shopping right now.。
"Like, really, what's going on?"。
And we get out of the car,。
and there's this lady coming out of Toys R Us,。
and she has this shopping cart just overflowing with gifts.。
And there's the gifts on the bottom shelf。
or that little area underneath the cart,。
and then the cart is just falling out.。
I mean, boxes are falling out.。
And so she pushes it, and a box falls off the bottom,。
and she doesn't even realize it,。
and she just looks frazzled.。
Like, she just looks like she fought somebody。
over a Tickle Me Elmo or something.。
And I'm like, I'm seeing her,。
and I'm a little bit away from her,。
and the box is on the ground.。
I'm like, "Ma'am, ma'am, you forgot your box."。
And so then she kind of is like, "What?"。
You know, and looks, and she goes to pick it up.。
She lets go of her cart.。
Her cart begins to stroll into oncoming traffic.。
And so then I run after her cart, and I grab it,。
and I bring it back and help her get her box in.。
And she's just like, "Thank you," and then leaving.。
And honestly, what I thought, I was just like,。
"How pathetic," you know?。
Just full transparent.。
I'm just like, "Ah, this lady's just going store to store,。
"stacking up stuff, you know, and she goes in here。
"trying to get a deal, and she gets all this stuff."。
And so, anyway, so we part ways.。
Monica and I go inside, and about an hour and a half later,。
there I am checking out.。
I've got two carts that look just like hers.。
I'm all frazzled, you know, I'm like, "What is going on?"。
You like kind of go down an aisle,。
and then somebody else is coming at you,。
so you come pull out, and you're just fighting traffic。
everywhere you go.。
We got toys for everyone in our lives that need toys,。
you know, at the Christmas shopping, done,。
and I'm sitting there, and as I'm in the checkout,。
all I could think about was that lady when I came in.。
I'm like, "I am that lady.。
"She and I are one.。
"Like, what's wrong with me right now?"。
And as I think about that, like, why do we do that?。
We do that because we think we have a certain amount of time。
and we can get a deal, and we can get ahead,。
and it just kind of becomes this tradition,。
and before you know it, like, right after。
our entire country stops to give thanks for all we have,。
like, you know, then we just turn around,。
and we go and get as much as we can,。
and we fight people for it.。
It's crazy, it's the craziest dichotomy。
I can think of right now.。
That we go from one moment,。
"Lord, thank you so much for everything.。
"Okay, give me, give me, give me, give me."。
And as I think about that, it's really just a microcosm。
or a micro example of what we do in life.。
The problem with me and the problem with that woman,。
we were driven by our desires.。
Our desires to please people in our lives,。
our desires to find things on sale,。
our desires to get stuff,。
and when you go through this life。
and you're driven by your desires,。
it's not going to give you peace,。
it's going to make you anxious.。
It's going to make you more anxious.。
You're gonna have anxiety.。
Black Friday is like stressful.。
It's unbelievably stressful.。
It causes anxiety in me just thinking about it.。
It's the opposite of peace.。
It's the opposite of contentment in every way.。
And so if you're here and you struggle with anxiety,。
let me just say something up front.。
There's times in your life where you're not anxious.。
Almost every person that I've met with。
that struggles with anxiety would say,。
"Yeah, there's times in my life where I'm not anxious."。
And I can say, "Well, describe those times to me."。
And they would tell me, and say, "Well, what if,"。
let me just propose something to you.。
"What if the times that you're anxious。
"are because you have a perspective problem?"。
Because there's times you're not anxious,。
and so what is your perspective then?。
And then there's times you are anxious,。
and so if there's times that you're not anxious,。
what if the times that you are anxious。
is simply a perspective problem?。
What if you're being ruled by the wrong things?。
Now, I'm not trying to dumb down your struggle,。
so stay with me, and certainly there's exceptions, I'm sure,。
and maybe you think you're the exception, and so be it.。
But I'm just saying, hey, what if?。
What if it's a perspective problem?。
What if we are being ruled by the wrong things,。
and that is causing anxiety in our lives?。
And so tonight, I wanna talk about。
being ruled by the right thing,。
being ruled by God so we can exhale.。
We're wrapping up this series, Exhale,。
so tonight we're talking about being ruled by God。
so that we can exhale.。
And so I'm gonna give you three things。
that people who are ruled by God do.。
And so in verses one through four of Psalm 16,。
we're gonna talk about how they delight in his people.。
In verses five through eight,。
we're gonna talk about how they find joy in his presence,。
and in verses nine through 11,。
we're gonna talk about how they pursue。
the pleasures of eternity.。
And so if you wanna turn to Psalm 16,。
if you just kinda crack your Bible open。
right there in the middle, you should be in the Psalms,。
and you can turn to chapter 16,。
and we will cover the entire chapter this evening.。
This Psalm was written by David,。
like so many of the Psalms in the Psalms,。
and like so many that we've covered already.。
David is the one who said, "The Lord is my shepherd."。
That was David.。
David is David and Goliath, David and Bathsheba.。
David, the greatest king this world has ever known,。
aside from King Jesus, that David.。
And so this is David.。
He scribed this Psalm about 1,040 years。
before Jesus shows up on the scene.。
So about 1,044 BC, before Christ, David writes this.。
"It's known as the Golden Psalm of David."。
And he says this, verse one.。
"Keep me safe, my God, for in you I take refuge.。
"I say to the Lord, you are my Lord.。
"Apart from you, I have no good thing."。
Okay, what is he saying there?。
In the Hebrew, he's saying, "I say to Jehovah,。
"I say to Jehovah, you are my Adonai."。
It says Lord twice, but you'll notice one Lord。
in your Bible might be in all caps,。
and the other Lord is just a capital L.。
"I say to the Lord, Jehovah," a name only for God,。
"you are my Adonai, you are my ruler, you are my king.。
"You are the one in my life who is in charge of me.。
"I'm submissive to you.。
"I say to God, you are my Lord.。
"Apart from you, I have no good thing.。
"I say to the holy people who are in the land,。
"they are the noble ones in whom is all my delight.。
"Those who run after other gods will suffer more and more.。
"I will not pour out libations of blood to such gods。
"or take up their names on my lips."。
He describes two types of people,。
people who are on the right path to God。
and people who are on the wrong path,。
people on the narrow path and people on the wide path.。
And so let me ask you this question。
before we go any further.。
If you still have your cell phones out,。
you might even just type it in there.。
I'm gonna ask you a question.。
I want you to answer literally, not out loud,。
but in your mind or write it down or something.。
Who do you want to be like?。
I know this is church, I'm not talking about Jesus, Jesus.。
No, no, who do you know or know of alive today。
that you want to be like?。
Who do you most wanna be like?。
Like I wanna be her, like she has him。
and I want all his, his job, his car.。
Who, think of a person, a name.。
Who do you want to be like?。
Everybody got it?。
Nods, you got a name?。
I might call on you.。
No, you got a name?。
Okay, let me ask you another question.。
Who is the holiest person alive that you can think of?。
Who do you know who is the holiest person?。
Most conformed to Christ's character and his likeness.。
Who do you know that is the,。
who's the holiest person you know?。
Think of another name.。
Let me ask you a third question.。
If those two names are different, why?。
If you just thought of two different names,。
well, there's the holiest person。
and then the person I most wanna be like.。
Why would those be different?。
Why would you not wanna be just like the person。
who is most like Christ in your life?。
And so my first point from this text is。
when God is your Lord, you, number one,。
delight in his people.。
When God is your Lord, when God is your ruler,。
when you're submissive to God,。
you're in a relationship with God,。
you know that he's God and you're not,。
and you want him to rule in your life,。
when God is your Lord, you delight in his people.。
With God as your ruler,。
you do not hang out with whoever you want to.。
When God is your ruler,。
you hang out with who he wants you to.。
And those may be two different people.。
And so you have friends that kind of allow you to exhale,。
friends who carry burdens with you,。
friends who celebrate victories with you.。
And then you have friends that you do ministry to.。
You have friends you do ministry with。
and you have friends you do ministry to.。
Let me say it like this.。
There are only two types of people you know。
if you're here and you're a follower of Christ.。
People you do ministry with and people you do ministry to.。
There are no other people.。
That's it.。
That is everyone in your life。
if you are a follower of Christ.。
There are those you do ministry with。
and those you do ministry to.。
And so he's talking about,。
hey, I delight in the ones who know Jesus Christ。
as their Lord and they're following him.。
And so to understand this, we have to unlearn some things。
'cause I'll talk to people and they're like,。
well, most people are Christians though.。
Most people, they believe in God.。
Most people are Christians.。
Most people are gonna go to heaven.。
On the contrary, Jesus said most people。
are gonna go to hell.。
Do we understand that?。
Jesus says that most people alive are gonna go to hell.。
It's heavy.。
And you say, well, where does he say that?。
He says that in Matthew 7.。
He says, "Wide is the road that leads to destruction。
"and many are on that wide path,。
"but narrow is the path that leads to life。
"and few will find it."。
He is the gate, he's the way, he's the path to life.。
He says, "I am the way, the truth, and the life.。
"No one comes to the Father except through me."。
He says, "Most people will be separated from me。
"forever and ever and ever because they've rejected me."。
Those are the ones you do ministry to.。
And then there's those who have trusted in who I am,。
King Jesus, those are the ones you do ministry with.。
So he's not talking about the one who pursues。
the gods of this world.。
He says, "I can't even speak of their gods."。
As my friend Garrett says, "Those who worship power,。
"pleasure, and pennies will experience pain."。
Those who worship power, pleasure, and pennies。
will experience pain.。
And so a lot of us, so many of us here tonight,。
we value people based on worldly standards.。
We value people based on what they can do for us,。
what they have, who they have connections to.。
We see them like Satan sees them.。
We see them like the world sees them.。
We do not see people like God sees people for some of us.。
We don't see them for how holy they are,。
how devoted to him they are.。
That's who we wanna be around.。
Very relevant to dating, by the way.。
Fellas, there are some very, very godly women around you。
whom you've ignored because you've been brainwashed。
by the world.。
Think about that.。
First Corinthians 15, verse 33 says, "Do not be misled.。
"Bad company corrupts good character.。
"Come back to your senses as you ought and stop sinning,。
"for there are some who are ignorant of God."。
Don't make, don't fellowship with those。
who are ignorant of God.。
This is for some of you, you got a friend problem, man.。
Like a dog to his vomit, you keep returning to the same sins。
over and over and over.。
And when you look around you, the same people are there.。
You're doing the same things with the same people。
and you want different returns.。
You've gotta change your playmates in your playground.。
You've got a playmate in playground problem.。
And your friends are an idol.。
You're like, no, no, no, no.。
Don't make me get rid of my friends.。
I'm trying to show you life, man.。
I'm trying to set you free.。
Jesus is trying to set you free.。
David is trying to set you free.。
The Holy Spirit is trying to set you free.。
When I question whether I should hang out with someone。
or some people, I ask this question,。
will I have influence or will I be influenced?。
'Cause if I will be influenced toward their gods,。
I'm not gonna hang out.。
But if I can influence them toward my one true God,。
I'm all about it.。
You should only fellowship,。
let me say this really controversial statement。
in case you're not already angry at me.。
You should only hang out with people。
you intend to see in eternity.。
Okay, you can write that down, tweet it out,。
lose some Facebook friends.。
Let me say it again, okay?。
You should only hang out with people。
you intend to see in eternity.。
Is that true?。
(audience laughing)。
Key word being intend.。
Let me make, am I saying you should only hang out。
with Christians, no.。
I'm saying you should hang out with non-believers。
for the sake of pointing them to Christ.。
You should hang out with Christians。
for the sake of knowing God more。
and celebrating who God is and what he's done.。
And you should hang out with those who are not Christians。
because you intend to see them in heaven.。
You want to see them in the kingdom of God forever.。
You want them to be there with you.。
And so you're intentional in the relationship.。
You are living life on purpose,。
but you should only hang out with people。
whom you intend to see in the kingdom.。
That is a life on purpose.。
That's why you're alive.。
That's why you have breath in your lungs.。
That's why God left you here after he saved you。
and he didn't take you home in that moment.。
And you say, wait, Jesus hung out with sinners.。
Absolutely, for the intentions。
of seeing them in heaven, he did.。
So, all of our relationships,。
we have an internal impact.。
We delight in believers and we seek to share.。
That's verse three.。
We seek to share with non-believers.。
That's verse four.。
We do ministry with people or to people。
and that's living on purpose.。
Let me say it like this.。
When we see people in light of eternity,。
we prioritize relationships differently.。
Did you hear me?。
When we see people in light of eternity,。
we prioritize relationships differently.。
We don't belong to this fallen world.。
If you're in the kingdom, this is not your home, man.。
You're not home yet.。
You're just in the preview.。
You're just in this middle round.。
You're just in this middle realm.。
You're not home yet.。
My little girl, my eight-year-old, Presley,。
I'll premise this by just saying,。
hey, we have the birds and the bees talk early in my home.。
So, that will make sense in a minute.。
And so, she comes down the stairs。
singing Drake's "Hotline Bling."。
And so, she comes in and she's like,。
♪ You used to call me on my cell phone ♪。
♪ You used to call me when you need my love ♪。
I'm like, who used to call you?。
(congregation laughing)。
And she's like, ♪ 'Cause you know in that ♪。
♪ Hotline Bling ♪。
♪ That can only mean one thing ♪。
I go, hey, Presley, what's it mean?。
She's like, what are you talking about?。
I go, you said it can only mean one thing.。
What's it mean?。
What are you saying?。
What's it mean?。
She go, I don't know.。
(congregation laughing)。
I said, well, you sang it.。
I said, I know what it means.。
You want me to tell you?。
She goes, yeah, yeah, tell me.。
This is a booty call.。
(congregation laughing)。
She like looked at me confused, like.。
(congregation laughing)。
Said, Dave, what's a booty call?。
(congregation laughing)。
I said, it's a guy who's lonely。
and he's calling someone he's not married to。
because he wants to have sex with her.。
Do you know that's what you were singing?。
No, no, I didn't know.。
She goes, everybody sings this song.。
I said, you're right, everybody sings this song.。
Everybody, you're right.。
Gets in your head, you can't get it out.。
Everybody sings this song.。
I said, you're not everybody, Presley.。
I said, you're a princess.。
I said, you belong to a king.。
You belong to a king in a foreign land.。
He's gonna call you home one day.。
You're gonna be with him in his kingdom.。
There where he reigns,。
you're gonna be there in his presence。
forever and ever and ever and ever.。
You're not everybody.。
Yes, though, everybody in the world sings that song.。
They worship other gods with their lips,。
but we don't even utter the names。
of those gods with our lips.。
We sing praises to the one true God.。
We don't mindlessly be brainwashed by words。
with a fun beat behind them.。
You're a princess, Presley.。
You belong to a king.。
Verse five.。
Lord, you alone are my portion and my cup.。
You make my lot secure.。
He says, God is what he needs.。
He says, you're my portion, God.。
You're my portion.。
By show of hands, how many of you here。
ate an amazing Thanksgiving meal?。
Like you went big, like me and Shane, evidently.。
You went big.。
Thanksgiving, yeah, why are you not raising your hand?。
Big Thanksgiving meal, okay.。
Now, how many that just raised their hand,。
how many went back for seconds?。
All right, good, yeah, yeah.。
I went, me too, me too.。
Okay, so now just, we're gonna take another survey。
real quick, so how many of you,。
when you go back for seconds,。
like you want that one more thing, is it turkey?。
How many went back for seconds on turkey?。
Some of you, yeah, turkey's kind of a waste of space.。
How many dressing?。
Oh yeah, big time, that's me.。
I'm in that camp firmly.。
And then how many of that one side that only mama makes,。
it's amazing, it only shows up at Thanksgiving?。
Okay, yeah, yeah, I feel that.。
And then how many of you went twice through the dessert line?。
Like pumpkin pie, yeah, me too, me too, right?。
It's like that, it's like I've gotta get that other portion.。
I've gotta get that one more thing.。
David's saying, hey, God, is that for me?。
That thing that I'm excited about,。
that thing that I can't get enough of,。
that thing that I just want more of,。
that thing that I'm thinking of,。
it's God, the creator of the heavens and the earth.。
I want more of you, you're my portions.。
You make my lots secure.。
The boundary lines have fallen for me in pleasant places.。
Surely I have a delightful inheritance.。
What an incredible line of contentment.。
That should be your new favorite verse,。
at least for the evening.。
Look at how beautiful this is.。
The boundary lines have fallen for me in pleasant places.。
Surely I have a delightful inheritance.。
He says, everywhere I am, I see in light of where I will be.。
And so I'm content.。
No matter where I am, I see it through the lens。
of being with you forever and ever and ever and ever,。
and so I have contentment perspective.。
What an incredible perspective.。
I will praise the Lord who counsels me,。
even at night my heart instructs me.。
This is the picture of a man who's lying in bed。
thinking about what is right.。
Really powerful image.。
Lady, this is who you want to marry.。
A man who is lying in his bed,。
reflecting on the goodness of God,。
saying, hey, what is the right thing to do。
so I can do that?。
I only wanna do what is right.。
May your Holy Spirit instruct me。
to do only what is good and right and true.。
I keep my eyes always on the Lord.。
With him at my right hand, I will not be shaken.。
I don't care if there's a Goliath nine feet tall。
in front of me, give me a rock.。
I won't be shaken with you.。
You have my lot secure.。
God, Jehovah, you are my Adonai, you are my Lord.。
When God is your Lord, you find joy in his presence.。
You find joy in his presence.。
You find joy in his presence.。
Let me say this, friends.。
You need to hear this, okay?。
You really need to hear what I'm about to say.。
If you're not actively spending intentional time with God,。
you should reevaluate what you actually believe about God.。
Lest you fool yourself into thinking。
that you have a relationship with God.。
If you are not actively, intentionally setting your time。
aside so that you might be with the creator。
of the heavens and the earth who formed you。
in your mother's womb as we sang earlier.。
If you are not seeking to know him。
and prioritizing time with him,。
then you might reevaluate what you actually believe。
about him.。
You might reconsider what you believe about that God。
you don't want to spend time with.。
To you, I say, no wonder you're stressed out.。
You haven't made time for the most important thing。
in the entire world, entire universe.。
No wonder you're stressed out.。
It is very counterintuitive to say, I have so much to do.。
I need to spend time with God.。
But it's the only way you're gonna get through。
the so much to do.。
He's the only way, with sanity anyways.。
I had this friend, it's a crazy story.。
Crazy story, let me premise it with that.。
A buddy, my close friend of mine, honestly,。
and he was in ministry, vocational ministry.。
He was a pastor.。
And he started dating this girl.。
Talk about her all the time, this girl.。
And she was kind of a well-known girl.。
She was well-known in the Christian circle.。
She was a Christian artist, a singer.。
And so, he would just talk about her.。
And I never met her, I never saw her.。
I never saw him with her.。
And we worked closely together。
and spent a lot of time together.。
And he would show me pictures.。
And he'd be like, hey, here's.。
But the pictures were weird.。
It was like, here I am, and then there she is.。
And then here I am.。
And there were never any pictures of them together.。
And I didn't even catch on to it。
because I trusted him.。
And he would just always, he was talking about,。
hey, I think I'm gonna marry this girl.。
And all of this stuff, like him and this relationship.。
And as it went on, he was exposed.。
This girl that he was never with,。
he didn't actually have a relationship with.。
And he had gone to, he was a fraud.。
And he had gone to great lengths。
to convince people in his life。
that he had a relationship with her.。
And I think today, I look back on that,。
I think how exhausting。
to manage that perception that he actually knew and loved。
and was in relationship with this person。
that he never spent any time with.。
And some of us are doing that with God.。
And I think how exhausting for you to go through life。
trying to trick the world that you have a relationship。
with the creator of the heavens and the earth。
when you don't spend any time with him.。
How exhausting that must be for you。
to try to manage that perception.。
David says, "The thought of my inheritance with you。
"gives me peace in the places I'm at."。
He says, "Boundary lines have fallen in pleasant places."。
He says, "The Lord is in charge of where I live,"。
verse six, "He knows where I'm gonna be。
"and I'm content there。
"because I see it in light of eternity."。
He says, "I have pleasure in them."。
Every pleasure that you experience here。
is one of two things.。
It's either counterfeit or a commercial.。
So it's either a fake temporary pleasure。
that's gonna leave you wanting more,。
or it's a commercial for the kingdom of God.。
It's this, when you sit with friends and you fellowship。
and the sun's breaking through the leaves。
on a perfect fall day and you feel the breeze。
and the weather is perfect and you laugh until you cry,。
and there's just this sense that all is right in the world,。
it's just a commercial of the forever。
and ever and ever with Jesus.。
And in that moment that you think, I'm gonna eat,。
I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go hard, I'm gonna get mine,。
I'm gonna take, I want, I'm gonna devour.。
It's counterfeit, leaves you wanting more.。
On the other end of it, there's a, what did I do?。
What was I thinking?。
Why did I do that again?。
It's counterfeit.。
See, we're going through this world。
as followers of Christ, content, full on Him,。
satisfied, He's our portion.。
We're not going through this world like,。
you guys go to the grocery store,。
you ever go to the grocery store hungry?。
It's a terrible idea.。
Is it not a terrible idea?。
You go to the grocery store hungry,。
like you go in for just milk, but you're hungry.。
And so you're like, you're like going, where's the milk?。
Where's the milk?。
Oh, look at this yogurt.。
Wow, okay, I think I saw that commercial,。
I'll get some yogurt.。
And you're like, oh, Eggo waffles, all right,。
Eggo waffles, and then, oh, Captain Crunch, yummy,。
you know, it's got a prize in the box, dad life, you know?。
And so, and you just, oh, I saw a commercial for this drink,。
I'll buy a pack of that.。
And all of a sudden, before you know,。
you were in there for just milk,。
and you got all this stuff, right?。
And you're just trying to fill the contentment。
in your heart, like for my wife,。
she goes for milk and comes back with a dress,。
like Super Target, I hate you, you know?。
Like when I was growing up, you'd get beat up。
if you bought clothes at the grocery store.。
Like I got beat up for buying clothes at the grocery store.。
Now Target made it cool somehow.。
And so she goes in like, hey, just grab a gallon of milk.。
And she goes, look at these shoes, and it matches.。
And that's not how we go through this world.。
So you don't do that when you have a pantry full of food.。
You don't do that when you have everything you need.。
You do that when you're wanting.。
You don't do that when you're satisfied.。
As followers of Christ, we go through this world。
satisfied on Him, longing for a future world,。
longing for a right world, a correct world,。
a sinless world with God in His presence.。
Don't try to fill an eternal void with stuff here.。
Let eternity do that.。
Verse nine, "Therefore, my heart is glad。
"and my tongue rejoices."。
Why, why is his heart glad?。
Why does his tongue rejoice?。
"Because my body will also rest secure.。
"Because you will not abandon me to the realm of the dead,"。
that's hell, "nor will you let your faithful one,"。
or your Bible might say holy one,。
"nor will you let your holy one see decay."。
Now that's, what's he saying here?。
Because this is weird because it sounds like he's saying,。
hey God, you're not gonna let me die.。
But in 2 Samuel, verse seven,。
God told David he was gonna die.。
He told him that his body would decay.。
And so why is he saying this?。
And so, you know, Psalms are interesting.。
Like when I read the Psalms, it's like I don't know them.。
It's like I'm reading them for the first time.。
And whenever I'm gonna teach on something,。
I'll listen to messages.。
And when I went to teach on Psalm 16 for the first time,。
you know that I couldn't find another message on Psalm 16.。
I couldn't even find a commentary。
that I really loved on Psalm 16.。
And so I was looking,。
and so I'll listen to other preachers take on a message.。
I'll listen to what they did with it.。
And before I teach it,。
I just couldn't find any resources on Psalm 16。
when I first taught this.。
And do you know who wrote the best commentary on Psalm 16?。
It wasn't John Piper.。
Do you know who wrote the best commentary on Psalm 16?。
It was the Holy Spirit.。
Did you know, Ports,。
did you know that the first sermon ever preached。
in the church was on Psalm 16?。
So after Jesus left,。
the first sermon ever preached was on Psalm 16.。
It was the apostle Peter.。
He says this in Acts chapter two.。
He says, "You Jews, you Jews, you killed Jesus."。
But verse 24, "God raised him, Jesus, from the dead,。
"freeing him from the agony of death。
"because it was impossible for death。
"to keep its hold on him.。
"David said about him," this is King David in Psalm 16,。
"said about Jesus, 'I saw the Lord always before me。
"'because he is at my right hand.。
"'I will not be shaken.'"。
Talking about Jesus.。
"Therefore, my heart is glad and my tongue rejoices.。
"My body also will rest in hope。
"because you will not abandon me to the realm of the dead,。
"nor will you let your body,。
"nor will you let your Holy One see decay.。
"You have made known to me the paths of life.。
"You will fill me with joy in your presence."。
That's Psalm 16.。
And he says this, the commentary then.。
"Fellow Israelites, I can tell you confidently。
"that the patriarch David did.。
"He died and was buried, and his tomb is here to this day.。
"We can go to his tomb, his body is decaying.。
"But he was a prophet, and he knew that Jesus。
"had promised him on an oath。
"that he would place one of his descendants on his throne.。
"Seeing what was to come,。
"he spoke of the resurrection of the Messiah。
"that was not abandoned to the realm of the dead,。
"nor did his body see decay.。
"He was resurrected on the third day.。
"God raised this Jesus to life,。
"and we are all witnesses of it."。
We saw him, we saw him.。
He said, "David, a thousand years。
"before Jesus shows up on the scene,。
"David's talking about Jesus."。
And you're like, "Well, how do we know?"。
Did you know the apostle Paul preached a sermon on Psalm 16?。
That was Peter, not to be confused with Paul in Acts 13,。
says this, verse 35, "You will not let your Holy One。
"see decay," David said that in Psalm 16.。
Now, when David had served God's purpose。
in his own generation, he fell asleep.。
He was buried with his ancestors, and his body decayed.。
But the one whom God raised from the dead。
did not see decay, that was Jesus.。
Therefore, my friends, I want you to know。
that through Jesus, the forgiveness of sins。
is proclaimed to you.。
Through him, everyone who believes。
is set free from every sin.。
What I'm saying is 2015 years ago,。
there were no prophets speaking the word of God.。
There was 400 years of silence.。
And God, the creator of the heavens and the earth,。
broke the silence with, you know what?。
The sound, God's first words after 400 years of silence。
were the cry of an infant in a manger,。
a newborn baby in fulfillment with God's promises.。
David looked ahead and foresaw that God。
was gonna come to the earth in the form of a man,。
live a sinless life, and die the death that you deserve.。
The death that you deserve, the torture that you deserve,。
so that you might have the inheritance that he deserves.。
As a perfect God, the prince to the greatest king。
creation will ever know.。
David saw that.。
So Jesus is the way.。
He's the life, he's the truth, he's the door,。
he's the gate, he's the road you take,。
he's everything, heaven is his party.。
He's in charge of the guest list.。
He determines who will get in there,。
and he will fill you with joy in his presence.。
And so how can we trust the promises of eternity?。
Because God always keeps his promises.。
He kept his promise.。
When Jesus showed up the first time, he's coming back, guys.。
He's coming, he's returning for us。
to take his prince and his princesses home with him,。
to be with him and his land forever.。
When God is your Lord, you, third point,。
pursue eternal pleasures.。
When God is your Lord, you pursue eternal pleasures.。
Verse 11, it's a beautiful verse, listen.。
You make known to me the path of life.。
You will fill me with joy in your presence,。
with eternal pleasures at your right hand.。
He's saying this, the future, or the hope, rather,。
of future pleasures help us resist。
the temptation of fleeting pleasures.。
The hope of future pleasures help us resist。
the temptation of fleeting pleasures.。
Because what you think about eternity。
determines how you live here.。
What you actually believe about eternity。
determines how you live here.。
You guys ever been at work?。
You're like, yeah, I've been at work.。
You ever been at work right before a vacation?。
Like you're about to leave on vacation.。
Maybe this was two weeks ago for you.。
Maybe you went on vacation, Thanksgiving,。
and you're at work, and normally it'd be a really bad day.。
But this day you're about to go on vacation.。
And they come to you, they're like,。
"No, things are blowing up."。
You're like, "Eh, I'm about to go on vacation."。
They're like, "No, literally the copy machine's on fire."。
"Eh, it's okay, vacation."。
They're like, "No, but we just lost the deal.。
"You don't understand."。
"Eh, beaches, mountains, turkey, dressing, vacation."。
You know, it's coming, right?。
And so it's just like you just kind of have this perspective。
like, eh, right?。
But no, but you're usually really anxious right now.。
Yeah, but I'm going on vacation.。
So I'm not.。
But you might get fired.。
More vacation.。
[congregation laughing]。
If you're a Christ follower, like this is your life.。
You're about to go on vacation.。
That's today, man.。
Like you're about to be with God forever and ever。
and ever and ever in his kingdom.。
Like it's better than Disney World,。
better than beaches, better than mountains.。
You're on vacation.。
But things are going really wrong.。
Eh, I'm about to go to heaven.。
That's like in 80 years.。
Yeah, but it's forever.。
I'll be there forever, man.。
It won't matter 80 years from now.。
I have to go to heaven.。
That's perspective.。
Do you see how anxiety can be a perspective problem?。
[congregation laughing]。
Exhale.。
See, how do you know your stress。
is not a perspective problem?。
When we see problems in light of the promise of eternity,。
we persevere.。
When we see problems in light of the promise of eternity,。
we persevere.。
I literally, in conversations with some believers,。
I'm like, yeah, I pray to die.。
They're like, what?。
I was like, yeah, man, sometimes.。
I'm just like saying my prayers.。
I'm like, Jesus, come tonight.。
Take me home tonight.。
I wanna be with you.。
I wanna be with you that bad.。
Will you just take me home?。
And I'm not depressed or anything.。
Pray for me if you want.。
[congregation laughing]。
I'm just like, no, man, I just wanna meet King Jesus.。
I just wanna be in his presence.。
And some friends were like, man, that's crazy,。
but don't you wanna walk your girls down the aisle?。
Like, yeah.。
Yeah, I mean, I wanna walk my girls down the aisle,。
but walking them down the aisle or meeting Jesus,。
I'll take Jesus.。
I love my girls, but give me Jesus.。
And like single folks sometimes are like,。
yeah, no, I wanna meet Jesus.。
I just wanna get married first.。
Like, what?。
Are you serious?。
Like, you can go to a wedding that you paid for,。
or you can be at God's wedding feast.。
Like, you get to choose.。
And you're saying, I'd rather go to the wedding。
that I paid for first.。
I just wanna experience that.。
Like, nobody's gonna get to heaven and be like,。
man, I missed out on that whole marriage thing, you know?。
Jeez, God, why'd you do that to me?。
No, man, it's heaven.。
It's heaven.。
It's heaven with God forever and ever and ever.。
You live with that perspective.。
Like, I'm on vacation before heaven, before eternity.。
What problems do I got, man?。
Go into heaven.。
People are like, what about Monica and the kids?。
Who's gonna take care of 'em?。
Well, God is.。
God's gonna take care of 'em.。
God's taking care of 'em right now.。
He's just using me.。
If I die, he'll use somebody else.。
I hope he's handsome.。
(congregation laughing)。
Listen to this, verse 11.。
It's beautiful.。
I read it once.。
I'm gonna read it again.。
I wanna show you something.。
There's an alliteration here in the English.。
I like Ps, as you can tell.。
So, "You make known to me the path of life.。
"You fill me with joy in your presence,。
"with eternal pleasures at your right hand."。
You see that?。
"The path of life, it's with God's people.。
"You fill me with joy in your presence."。
That's who people, when God is the Lord of their life,。
they have joy in his presence.。
With eternal pleasures at your right hand,。
we pursue eternal pleasures。
when God is the Lord of our life.。
When God is the Lord of your life, you delight in his people.。
When God is the Lord of your life, in summary,。
you find joy in his presence.。
When God is the Lord of your life,。
you pursue eternal pleasures.。
It's a magical season, man,。
between Thanksgiving and Christmas.。
It gets cold.。
Christmas trees go up.。
It's a pretty season.。
A lot of things, there's just kind of a magic in the air.。
You guys feel that?。
I mean, am I the only one?。
There's just kind of magic in the air.。
There's also a lot of stress in the air.。
It also gets kind of chaotic.。
You guys feel that, a little chaos?。
It gets a little crazy.。
Travel plans, Christmas presents, Christmas parties,。
full calendar, work done,。
gotta finish the end of the year.。
It gets just, I can't breathe, you know?。
Just kind of crazy.。
I just need to exhale a little bit, right?。
And it's crazy that we forsake the reason for the season.。
Like, this is crazy, man,。
that we lose sight of the reason for the season.。
But what I'm telling you tonight。
is I think for so many of us,。
we lose sight of the reason for our life.。
Not just the reason, like Christmas。
and what we've done with Christmas。
that we've exchanged Christ's birthday.。
Do you know that I was with。
a bunch of kindergartners recently。
and I asked them whose birthday was Christmas?。
And do you know that some of them blurted out, Santa's.。
And it's not, you know, like, it's kind of funny。
and then you think about it and it's kind of really sad.。
Like, if I was Satan and the whole world stopped。
to celebrate the birth of God,。
I would come up with this grand plan。
with all my demons and my minions。
to replace that celebration with consumerism and chaos.。
And I'd put it in front of them。
so that no one in the world。
would actually think about the Christ。
and wanna be near him.。
They'd want stuff.。
I would go after their adulterous hearts。
and their materialistic ways。
and I'd tempt them with sales and things。
and stuff and status and presents and Santas.。
What an awful plan.。
And it's working.。
And Christmas is just a micro example of our lives.。
I'm not saying don't forget the reason for the season.。
I'm saying don't forget the reason you're alive, man.。
Young man, young woman, prince, princess.。
Don't forget the reason your heart beats in your chest。
and you have breath in your life.。
I'm not asking you to go to church。
or to read your Bible or to pray.。
I'm asking you to go all in with Jesus 100%,。
all in, everything,。
that you would see people。
as those you do ministry with。
and those you do ministry to,。
that you would pursue joy in his presence。
and that you would hold out。
for the promise of pleasures in eternity.。
Let me pray that you would.。
(pages rustling)。
God in heaven, thank you just for an opportunity。
to preach from the Bible.。
Lord, thank you for the way that you've protected us.。
Thank you for what you're allowing us。
to persevere in right now.。
God, please don't let us get stuck in the trap of sin.。
Father, please set us free。
from the desires of our wicked heart,。
the desires of our flesh,。
the things that we wanna run after to instead of you.。
God, please help us to prioritize。
our calendar appropriately.。
Please help us to stop idolizing friend groups。
that are leading us to death over and over and over again.。
Lord, please help us to stop going back to that computer。
to looking at those images,。
to spending money in those ways that we don't have,。
to buying trinkets and treasures and pieces of worship.。
Please help us to stop worshiping other gods。
with our lips and what we say and what we sing。
and where we go.。
Lord, I pray that you would protect us,。
that you would make our lot secure,。
that we would see there are boundary lines。
of fallen in pleasant places。
because we see every place we are in light of your kingdom.。
Would you help us do that?。
And Father, in the chaos of this season,。
help us not to look past the Christ.。
That you sent a sacrifice,。
a baby born to die。
on our behalf。
because of what we've done。
so that we can be with you forever and ever and ever。
and ever in your kingdom.。
The other day I was sitting with,。
it was after, it was last week after the porch,。
David and some of our leaders came over to my house。
and we were just sitting on the back porch。
and talking and it's a good discussion。
and the topic just came up and they just said,。
"Hey, you ever think we ask too much of people?"。
And I said, "What do you mean?"。
And he's like, "No, just like with service and stuff here,。
"it's like, you know, it just feels like。
"we're asking a lot of them。
"and aren't you afraid of burnout?"。
And that sort of thing.。
And I just said, "No, I don't think。
"we're asking enough of people."。
I said, "I really don't think we're asking enough of people."。
Let's see, you know, Christ says,。
"Take up your cross and follow me."。
He says, "In me you'll find life."。
He said, "Anyone who loses their life for my sake。
"will find it."。
And yeah, we're not trying to grow an audience.。
We're trying to grow his army.。
And thank God, I look back on the time I came to church。
and I sat in the back row and I was hungover。
and addicted to pornography, addicted to sex,。
loving the party, loving Dallas,。
loving everything that the world has to offer.。
And I thank God that somebody called me。
to go all in with him.。
I had a hunch, like I had a sense。
that I had some gifts that God could maybe use,。
but I was so stuck on myself.。
I was so stuck on my kingdom.。
I couldn't see God past me.。
And somebody just said,。
"Hey, I'm not asking you to go to church on Sunday.。
"I'm asking you to live a fully devoted follower,。
"a life fully devoted to following Christ,。
"24 hours a day, seven days a week,。
"and everything you do, that every relationship you have,。
"you would see in light of eternity.。
"And everything you do, you would do。
"through the lens of eternity, that full devotion."。
They redefined Christianity for me.。
I'm like, "Oh, I thought I was a Christian。
"'cause I was born in a Christian home."。
They're like, "No, Christians follow Jesus."。
Cool.。
That's what we wanna help you do.。
