What a start to the night and what a summer we've had so far. Am I right? I mean, come on,。
celebrating 20 years at the porch, bringing back the old favorites, right? And then how many of。
you were at the worship night last Tuesday where we just heated this room up? An encore at a worship。
night. I didn't know you did that, but we did it last Tuesday. But I will say it's good being back。
in the room. It's good having our Porch Live locations back with us, which shout out to the。
Porch Live locations that are tuning in all over the world, specifically Boise and Wheaton and。
Scottsdale. Can we give it up to them for joining in with us tonight? And I'm just excited to be。
with you here. Like Colin said, I do feel like God just kind of stirred up something before we go。
into the next series. I think God's got something for us tonight. But before we get into that, I。
just want to ask you this question. Have you ever had a time in your life where you were really。
trying hard to go all out in your relationship with Jesus, only to be blindsided by the result of。
that effort? My wife and I, Jen, we were talking this week, just kind of laughing about some。
embarrassing things that have happened in our lives as we've like jumped all in and then the。
result wasn't what we expected. And I just started listing off things, and she's like, "You just got。
to just tell them all of them." I'm like, "All of them?" She's like, "Just go through it fast." So I。
was like, I remember in eighth grade, okay? Eighth grade, I'm just kind of getting started in my。
relationship with Jesus. I remember a bunch of us, it's summertime, we're out at the pool, and my。
friend, Michelle, she drops her phone in the pool. And so I dive in. This is a flip phone, okay? I。
dive in, and I'm like, "I got your phone." And I pull it out, and it's like blinking, and I'm like, "I。
think I saved it, okay? And I'm the hero." So I think, well, I find out years later, she dumped it in。
the pool on purpose because she wanted a new phone. So she went home and told her parents, "Tyler。
Moffitt threw my phone in the pool. I need a new one." Like, really? I remember high school, okay,。
playing football. Spring ball. It's inner team, like we got our defense versus the offense, and a。
big fight. Just, you know, busts out on the field. Everybody's fighting, punching. And I remember, I'm。
a believer. I'm like, I'm just gonna let the fight happen, and I'm not gonna meddle. And everyone's。
fighting, bruised up, and I'm just kind of watching. The next day, in film, my defensive coordinator。
pulls out the film of everybody fighting. He takes a screenshot. He circles me and writes a。
five-letter word, starting with P, over me, posts it on my locker, and tells everyone, "Don't be。
like Moffitt, who leaves his brothers behind." I'm like, "What?" I fast-forward to college. I。
remember, I went to Texas A&M. There it is. I went to A&M, was in the boo. Thanks for the boo. I went。
to, uh, I was in the business school on the west side of campus, and I remember thinking, I remember。
thinking, "I want to, God, wherever you want me to sit at lunch, in the west campus, campus, like。
cafeteria, I'll just go wherever. Show me someone who's alone." And I see this guy. He's sitting。
alone, and so I'm like, "Hey man, can I sit here?" He's like, "Yeah, sure." So I sit with him, and I'm。
like, "So tell me your story. Like, what's going on?" He's like, "Well, I'm an engineering major, you。
know, blah, blah, blah." He keeps going. I'm like, "Engineering major? That's north side. What are you。
doing west side?" He's like, "Well, I'm here to eat lunch with her." And he points to his girlfriend,。
who's coming over, and I realize I'm third-wheeling a lunch date that's going down. And so I'm, it's。
just so brutally awkward, as I'm like, "So, how'd you meet, and what's going on?" They're just like,。
"Why is he here?" And I'm like, "I, I'm just gonna leave," and leave. I'm like, "I'm never sitting with。
someone alone. Why, God?" Last story. I remember later in college, I'm going on dates with a girl,。
and I'm like, "I'm gonna do it right. I'm gonna date the Christian way." So I invite her on a few。
dates, and I'm like, "It's time for the DTR moment." And so we go to dinner, and then we go outside to。
a bench, and it's the DTR, making it official moment. And I'm like, "Hey, I've really enjoyed。
getting to know you, and, and I want to make this official, like our relationship." And I said, "You。
know what, from this point forward, that means this relationship ends," and I, and I meant to say, "in。
either marriage or breaking up," because that's true. But instead, I said, "Marriage or divorce." And she。
was like, "Divorce?" I'm like, "Dang it, ugh!" I mean, there are times in our life where we're trying, and yet。
it feels like every time I try, it's like a step backwards. I mean, we can get more serious. Some of。
you, you're spending 50 to 60 hours grinding at your job, in your work, to the glory of God, trying to do。
it right, just for, to have the person who's cutting corners get the promotion above you. Others of you,。
you're trying to do Christian dating right. So messy out there, but you're like, "I'm trying to do it。
right. I'm praying for my future spouse. I'm doing all the right things. I'm, I'm dating with purity. I'm。
acting with purity." All the "find a woman who's a billionaire, singing breakup songs, have the wedding。
of her dreams, and not you." You know, some of you, you're so intentional with your friendships. You, you。
pray for them. You invite them. The very person who feels alone, you're like, "I'm going after them." All。
for 4th of July weekend to come around, and you're sitting at home, scrolling on Instagram, seeing all。
the Lake House weekend getaways you didn't get invited to. Others of you have spent your whole life trying。
to convince people to be soccer fans, only for the U.S. to blow it again in the World Cup. Too soon, maybe?。
Okay. I know. It hurt. It hurt. Here's the truth. There's a moment, just hear me here. There's a moment。
where your spiritual high, like we've experienced over the past month or so here at The Porch, where。
your spiritual high will collide with the reality of a bad day, what will collide with a moment that。
doesn't seem fair, that blindsides you, and I'm curious, what do you do in that moment, on that。
day? And that's why, if you have a Bible with you, if you turn your Bible to Psalm 73. Psalm 73, it's。
one of my favorite chapters. It's one of my favorite psalms in the whole Bible, and I love it because。
it's so real. It's written by a guy named Asaph, who's a worship leader in Israel. So just think about it.。
This guy's a worship leader. Not only is he a worship leader, but he's a prophet. He's a teacher and a。
worship leader combined in one. He's a spiritual insider. He's a leader, and yet we're gonna watch。
in Psalm 73, he's gonna be blindsided by a bad day. He's gonna have the harsh reality of life hit him,。
and we're gonna watch him process this, and it's just so encouraging to me, and I hope it is to you.。
I'll just say this lastly before we pray and dig into it. God has just been burdening my heart with。
this psalm for this moment, and I'm not exactly sure why. I've been literally, Kylan and I were。
praying right up there yesterday, just fasting and praying, going, "God, what is it you're doing in。
our room? It feels so special," and yet I just believe some of you are here because you need to。
hear from God. You don't need to hear from Tyler. You need to hear from God out of his word in Psalm。
73, and I'm just praying. I hope today, tonight, doesn't come across as harsh. I hope it is a。
beckoning invitation to freedom. Let me pray for us, and then we're gonna dig in. Let's pray.。
Father, the words that we just sang, like Kylan said, are bold, bold words. Let my hallelujah be。
a heart surrendered. Let my whole life, every inch of my life, let it sing that I love you. Man,。
that's easy to sing. That is hard when the bad day comes, and so God, would you just gird us up?。
Like, would you give us strength and conviction and courage? Would you consecrate a people and。
make them holy to God through your word by your Spirit? Would that happen tonight? And so come,。
Holy Spirit, we long to encounter you. Do whatever you want to do tonight, in Jesus' name. Amen. All。
right, we're gonna watch Asaph model for us what to do when the bad day comes, the hard reality。
comes, and he's gonna do three things. I'll give it to you at the beginning. He's gonna show us an。
honest feeling, a spiritual perspective, and a wholehearted decision. So he starts with an honest。
feeling, an honest feeling. Psalm 73, verse 1. I love it. He doesn't paint around the pain. He。
doesn't, he doesn't dodge what's actually going on. He just hits it head-on. Psalm 73, verse 1. He。
says, "Truly God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart." So he starts right at the。
beginning with the Sunday school answer. It's basically, God is good all the time, and all the time what?。
God is good. See, you know it. And then he gets real. Look at verse 2. I just love this. "But as for me, my。
feet almost stumbled, and my steps nearly slipped, for I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the。
prosperity of the wicked." See how real this is? Because I know the saying, "God is good all the。
time," but for me, when I look around and see everyone who's godless flourishing in this life,。
you know what happens to me? I get, I get spiritual slipping. I get the idea of like a spiritual。
vertigo. I just start falling over. I remember when my wife and I, when we lived in Houston, we tried。
to take our family multiple times to the Houston Zoo. Okay, as a father, I should take my kids to。
the giraffes. That's what you do. And we tried multiple times. It's hilarious, like we could。
never get in. We couldn't find a parking spot, like there were issues, kid throwing up in the car, you。
know, all kinds of things. The last time we went, we're driving to the zoo, and we're like, "We're。
going, I don't care what happens. We're going to the zoo." And as we're there, my wife, Jen, she。
starts in the passenger seat. She just goes, "Man, you know, I don't feel great." And I'm like, "Well,。
just have a snack. You know, that happens to you every once in a while." Like, yeah, eating. She's。
trying to eat. Then we're getting closer. She's like, "I'm serious, Tyler. Like, I'm feeling a。
little woozy. Like, have some water. You know, you're fine." Then we get there. We find the。
parking spot. We get out, and she literally opens the car and stumbles out of the car. I'm like,。
"Okay, this is serious." So I like go around, pick her up, and then we had some friends there. I send。
my kids with our friends, and I take her to the doctor. The doctor's like, "You need to go to the。
ER." We go to the ER. They run a bunch of tests, and they realize she has vertigo. Had never had。
it before in her life, but in this moment, had vertigo. And you know, Jen didn't wake up that。
morning going, "You know what would be great? You know what? I'm really anticipating some vertigo to。
just, like, spice up our zoo visit." Like, she just didn't think that that would happen. Why?。
Because it comes upon you. And Christians, what they'll do in the midst of your doubt and your。
struggle and your bad day, they'll say, "Hey, you need a little spiritual snack. Like, get the Bible。
app and read that verse, right? Or, like, listen to this podcast or read this book or just, like,。
stop talking and just go in the woods and pray, right?" And we just, like, try to medicate it.。
And you don't realize when you're having vertigo, your whole world is spinning. That's what's。
happening here. He's envious of the wicked, and then he describes what he sees. Look at verse 4.。
He says, "For they," for the wicked, the godless, he says, "They have no pangs," no pain, "until。
death. Their bodies are fat and sleek," meaning healthy. "They are not in trouble as others are.。
They're not stricken like the rest of mankind. Therefore, pride is their necklace. Violence。
covers them as a garment. Their eyes swell out through fatness. Their hearts overflow with。
follies. They scoff and speak with malice. Loftily, they threaten oppression. They set their。
mouths against the heavens, and their tongue struts through the earth. Therefore, His people。
turn back to them and find no fault in them. And they say, 'How can God know? Is there knowledge。
in the Most High?' Behold, these are the wicked. Always at ease, they increase in riches."。
He gets honest in his observation. He says, "You know what the godless, the ones who don't。
want anything to do with Yahweh, you know what they look like? No pangs, no pain. They're not。
stricken. Pride is their necklace. They have no trouble. Always at ease, they increase in。
riches. And not only that, they brag about it, boasting before God. 'Does God even see。
me? Does He even care?' Do you know anyone like that? You know anyone in your life? It's。
like every possible good thing tends to happen to them. They don't care at all about God,。
never show up at the porch. It seems like they're flourishing in life." What does he。
say to this? This is so real. Look at Asaph's conclusion. He has that observation and look。
at his conclusion in verse 13. "All in vain I have kept my heart clean and have washed。
my hands in innocence. For all the day long I have been stricken and rebuked every morning."。
He looks around at everybody else flourishing. Of course they're dating the hottest person.。
Of course they've got -- I'm driving a 2006 Accord, they just got a brand new Range Rover.。
Of course. You know, not my job, you know, it's just -- I'm stuck in a cubicle all day,。
I don't even have a window, there's no even way to find one. And they get the corner office.。
How in the world? It's all in vain. It's all in vain. He mimics Solomon in Ecclesiastes.。
Vanity of vanity, says the preacher. All is vanity. And then he comes to the end, verse。
15, last one. He says, "If I had said, 'I will speak thus,' I would have betrayed the。
generation of your children." So he has this honest rant and then he goes, "Man, if I ever。
said any of this out loud, I would betray the children of Israel. They would, you know,。
I'd be kicked out." Just love -- I mean, isn't this so real? This is Christian. This is the。
Christian life. He's saying -- remember, this guy is a worship leader and he's a prophet。
in Israel. This guy, all day long, says the right things and sings the right things. "Let。
my hallelujah be a hard surrender. May my whole life sing how I love you. Oh, I love。
you." And then when he gets alone, by himself, staring at his roommate, who leaves the dishes。
in the sink again as they're off to their date, goes, "Ugh! How -- it's all in vain.。
Why am I doing this? Truly, God is good to Israel, but not to me. All in vain, I've kept。
my heart clean." It's interesting. I'm curious. Have you ever been in a relationship。
with someone where they say all the right words? They say all the right things. "I love。
you, baby." "Oh, man, you're great. We're going to go out there." They say it all. And。
then you get with them and something feels off. You're like, "Man, I just don't feel。
like you're into this." You ever had that with someone? Someone you were feeling conviction。
right now. "Yeah, that's who I'm dating. You should -- that's not good." Okay? If all you。
have in a relationship is words -- "Ooh, good words. That sounds so good. Just leading you。
on, leading you on." But you don't have honesty in the relationship. Let me tell you, you。
don't have a real relationship. You don't. And what we see Asaph do is a really risky。
thing that some of you need to do in your own relationships. You just keep going along,。
pretend, "Oh, this is normal. This is fine." You never get honest about what you actually。
feel. And Asaph to God goes, "God, I'm just going to be honest. I don't know what you're。
going to do to me. I don't know what's going to happen to me. If I said any of this out。
loud, I'd be fired. But I've got to be honest with you." I've shared this story before,。
but the first time I ever did like a little solitude retreat, just a day alone, kind of。
out in the woods by myself. The first time I ever did it, I was so excited. I was like,。
"Ah, all the spiritual revelation I've been waiting for, it's coming." You know, I was。
counting down like seven days until I can receive revelation from God. You know, and。
then I went out to the woods, put my phone in my car, just went out, Bible, journal,。
pen. I'm hearing the birds chirp, the sun's rising. I'm like, "Oh, God, you are so good.。
Oh, thank you for the birds and the flowers and the sunshine. And why am I single? And。
why am I in this job?" And all of a sudden, it just started getting dark, like fast, as。
I started processing with God. And I was shocked by it. I was like, "Why is this happening?。
It's supposed to be like this sweet moment." And it was almost like God was like, "Hey,。
this is where I want to meet you." Like the songs and the birds and the journal and all。
that is so great, but I want you, man. If you're in a relationship with someone and。
you show them honesty and they go, "Whoa, I don't want that," they don't want relationship。
with you. But what does God do? God hears Asaph being honest and He goes, "Come on,。
this is what I wanted." And I've just been praying this week for this room and those。
watching, but for the porch, that we would be the most honest place on the face of the。
planet.。
It's interesting. I didn't know if I would share this, but in 2014, I came to the porch.。
I had an internship in Dallas and came and sat right up there. Hey, you guys. I sat right。
up there. And I remember walking in and having two thoughts. One, I'm just seeing everyone.。
Some of you had this thought tonight. You're like, "Wow, it's your first time at the porch.。
There's a lot of people and everyone's into it." And there was this excitement of like,。
"Wow, there's Christians in Dallas. I mean, who knew?" You know, but like, "Wow."。
And then my second thought was insecurity. I was just like, "Wow, I don't know if I belong。
here. I'm not cool enough. My life's not put together. I'm not even from Dallas. I'm from。
Houston. Dallas people hate Houston people. I don't belong here." And I just remember。
as I would go to the porch, God just ministered to me big time, but I always had this insecurity。
of, "Am I allowed to be me here?" And I'm just praying that that would break, that you。
would feel the freedom to be you here. I love watching this altar fill up and I don't know。
what's going through everyone's mind when you're up here like begging, but every once。
in a while, I'll just watch and see someone just broken. They don't care, man. These snot。
tears, you know, it's just nasty. There's nothing appealing about that moment except。
you just raw meeting with God. I just go, "Man, Lord, would our ministry be marked by。
that? If there's a picture of what the porch is, it's that. Yeah, it's cool to see our。
hands up. Yeah, it's cool this dating series. We're packed out. That's awesome." But I want。
the porch to be knotted, broken snot tears at the altar going, "God, I have nothing to。
give you. I just need you." What does Asaph do at the beginning? He has an honest feeling。
before God. He processes really before the Lord. Then we watch what God does. I'm curious,。
in your relationship, if you were able to be honest with them, what would they say back?。
Would they be threatened by your honesty? Or would they invite it? What does God do?。
We see the second thing that God does is he gives spiritual perspective. Asaph has an。
honest feeling before God, but then it moves to spiritual perspective. Let's pick it up。
in verse 16. Verse 16, there's a bit of a shift. He says, it's almost like he breathes.。
You can hear him. Verse 16, "But when I thought how to understand this, it seemed to me a。
wearisome task until I went into the sanctuary of God, and then I discerned their end." So。
good. Asaph is honest with God. I mean, about as raw as you can possibly get, snot tears。
pouring it out, but he doesn't turn off his brain. Some of you are amazing. In fact, if。
I was to define this generation, kind of Gen Z, I would say, actually, we need to hit on。
being honest. But you guys are pretty good at being honest. But sometimes you're raw。
and you're honest, and then you turn off your brain and run to assumption. So you're just。
like, God, life is so hard and it's difficult. Therefore, brain turned off, run to assumption.。
God is not for me. He loves everyone else but me. Prayer doesn't even work. I don't。
even know if God's real. And you just start spewing assumptions rather than forcing your。
mind to dissect your pain and your honesty in that moment. Not doubt it, not second guess,。
lean fully in, but begin to dissect what's going on here. What is this honest heart screaming。
about what is true in my life and maybe what is true about God? We can't turn off our brain.。
We have to continue to think. And he doesn't just say he was thinking. He says, "I was。
thinking about it and it was hard. It was wearisome." And then he says, "Until I went。
into the sanctuary of God." The sanctuary, it's not a word we use very much anymore,。
but the sanctuary is where the presence of God meets the people of God. It's where worship。
and community collide was at the sanctuary. So he says, he goes, "When I was feeling all。
of this, then I'm thinking, I'm trying to dissect what's going on. Then I step into。
the place where God's presence and his people meet and I get spiritual discernment or a。
perspective that changes. It doesn't change what I'm experiencing. It changes my perspective。
on what I'm experiencing." This is what happens here in verse 17. He goes into the sanctuary。
and he begins to discern. And this is why, hear me here, this is why Satan does not want。
you at the sanctuary. He does not want you at the place where you're thinking and you're。
allowing God's presence and God's people to inform your perspective. He wants you running。
to assumption. He wants you running to isolation. He wants you doom scrolling on your phone.。
He wants you medicating your pain with alcohol or pornography or binging the next show as。
long as you're not in the sanctuary. Because in the sanctuary, you gain perspective on。
why this might be happening in my life. So as long as I can isolate you, get away from。
community, get away from the sanctuary, then I've got you. Some of you, the fact that you're。
in here today as God's wooing you to the sanctuary, Satan hates it. He hates when you're around。
the presence of God and the people of God. And first step towards victory in your life。
is going, "I'm going to the sanctuary." Sometimes that means a place like this. Sometimes it。
means texting a friend and going, "Hey, I'm inviting you into this honest moment." Sometimes。
it's counseling. Sometimes it's whatever the thing is, it's refusing to isolate. I have。
all these guys that I disciple and I just know the moment they go dark on me, Satan's。
got them. He just does. Just think, "Man, I hadn't heard from that guy in two weeks."。
Oh no. Oh no. You got to be careful. Isolation feels like freedom. It's a chain, man. It's。
a prison. So he goes into the sanctuary. It says he's able to discern. And then starting。
in verse 18, it shows his new perspective on this reality. Look at verse 18. So he says,。
new perspective, "Truly, you set them in slippery places. You make them fall to ruin. How they。
are destroyed in a moment, swept away utterly by terrors, like a dream when one awakes.。
Oh Lord, when you rouse yourself, you despise them as phantoms. When my soul was embittered,。
when I was pricked in heart, I was brutish and ignorant, and I was like a beast towards。
you." So here Asaph gets a new perspective and it's on three things in particular. First。
in verse 18, he says, "My new perspective is they, the very ones I was jealous and envious。
of." He says, "They're actually the ones who are in slippery places, who are going to have。
vertigo one day." He says, "They're the ones slipping, not me." The second he says is,。
"They," in verse 19, "are destroyed in a moment." He gets eternal perspective and he remembers,。
"Oh wait, this life is not forever. One day they will stand before a holy God and have。
to give an account for their life." And then three, the third thing he said in verse 22,。
"And I was once ignorant and a beast towards God, just like them." Totally different perspective。
on the exact same circumstance. This is so important. A sign of spiritual maturity in。
your life is when rather than judging and comparing yourself to the world around you,。
your heart starts to break for them. So important that you get this. Just praying, "God, would。
this be true in this room?" A sign of spiritual maturity in your life is when rather than。
judging and comparing yourself and feeling envious of the world around you, your heart。
begins to break for them.。
Something big happened this weekend. I don't know if you saw it. I referenced it earlier.。
But Taylor Swift and Travis Kelce got married. Okay? No, one whoop. There you go. I wondered.。
I was like, "Will they?" You did. I heard it. Yeah, many of us, you're like, "Who cares?"。
A lot of you care. Stop pretending you don't. Okay. And it was all hush hush, but little。
things are starting to come out. Adam Sandler officiated. Thousand people, the who's who's。
of the world, it feels like, were there in Madison Square Garden. And it's interesting.。
There's been kind of polarizing reactions to this. Some people, you know, they look。
at all that and there's just this envy or there's this desire of like, "Oh man, I wish。
I was one of the thousand." I read an article. It was like, "Everyone who's someone was there."。
And I was like, "Wow, that hurt." You know, like, you know, just there's part of you that's。
like, "Wow, just what was her dress like? And like, what was it? What did he say? Oh,。
I heard he cried. And you know, like, was it, did she come down to her own song? That。
would've been crazy." You know, and you're just curious, like, just wondering. It's just。
this envy of like, "Oh, what would I would do to get there?" And then others of you are。
just like, "I'm so sick of Taylor Swift." Right? And you're just, just judging. Yeah,。
there's the whoops. Okay. You're just, just angry. Just like, "Get over yourself. Really?。
You're going to sign an NDA at your wedding?" You know, and you're just going off. And I,。
I don't know where you are on that spectrum, but I, I just want to be honest with you.。
I mean, I lived in that spectrum for a little bit. And then the past 24 hours, something。
wild happened. Probably because I was studying this and I was going to be standing before。
you, but something wild happened. My heart started to break. I'm serious. For Taylor。
Swift and Travis Kelsey. Never happened in my life. But I started to break for them.。
And here's why. Here's why. One of the weird things about being a pastor is I get to stand。
in front of a lot of people as they say their vows, husband and wife, covenanting before。
God till death do us part. It's one of the most fun things I do. I love it. And it's。
one of the scariest things that I do. Like you guys, you're inviting me to stand before,。
between you two as you make a promise before God till death do us part. And you want me。
to be there? Like, man. And yet what an honor, what an honor to be in that holy reverent。
moment where it says in Ephesians chapter five, marriage exists to be a picture, a glorious。
picture of the gospel to the world of just how this husband loves his bride and the bride。
comes under the leadership of her husband. And they two together go out into the world。
sharing about the goodness and love of God in how they model that love together. It's。
a beautiful picture of the gospel. And as much as I love T. Swift and Travis Kelsey。
with Adam Sandler officiating the wedding, I don't think that picture was there. And。
rather than judging them or being angry at them, I started to feel a little brokenness。
for them. It's like, man, I just, I want that for you. You remain the image of God. Marriage。
is a beautiful picture. If you steal it from that, what is marriage? It's cool. You celebrate.。
It's a big party, but you guys both did your prenuptial, like, you know, like, start the。
clock. We'll see how long it lasts. I hope it lasts. But I'm just saying the covenant。
is missing. I began to, my heart began to break for them. Something shifts when you。
can look on social media and you can watch the news and you could see your friends and。
rather than judge or envy, your heart begins to break where they're living outside of God's。
glorious design. Where do you need to come into the sanctuary and start seeing the world。
through a spiritual perspective like that? Colossians 3, it says, "If then you have been。
raised with Christ, seek the things that are above where Christ is, seated at the right。
hand of God. Set your mind on things that are above, not on earth, for you have died。
and your life is hidden with Christ in God." I mean, this is the perspective that we have。
now as we watch the world. Set my mind on things above, not on things of earth. Some。
of you though, I just want to lean in here for a second. Some of you are the ones that。
are on slippery places right now. You think you're getting away with things, playing around。
with things that God hates, hiding sin in your life. The spiritual perspective that。
ASAPH has is so important that we understand one day, every one of us will stand before。
a holy God. I'm just curious, does that moment terrify you? You're like, "Man, I hope I don't.。
I almost hope God's not real so I don't have to stand in that moment." Others of us covered。
by the blood of Jesus, we go, "That doesn't scare me. I know when God sees me, He sees。
His Son, Christ, Jesus. I'm covered. I'm free." Yet the reality is some of you just are living。
outside of that. I just want to read the words of Jesus in Matthew chapter 10, verse 28.。
He says, "And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather, fear。
Him who can destroy both soul and body in hell." Where do some of you need to come into。
the sanctuary? You need to get on this altar at the end and meet with some of these leaders.。
You need to, in a very real sense of the word, get right with God tonight. This isn't earning。
your way to Him. This isn't proving, "Okay, God, now I will really do it." It's surrender.。
It's repentance. It's knowing, "God, there's a holy God and I'm not holy. I'm not perfect。
and I will stand before you one day and oh, God, I have nothing, nothing to give in that。
moment. I need to be right with you because of Jesus." Man, you can walk out of here confident。
on that day, not scared of that day, hoping it's not real, confident in the throne of。
God and that can happen tonight. Lastly, this is quick, running out of time, but some of。
you need to come to the sanctuary where the presence of God meets the people of God and。
you need to preach perspective to your pain. You need to preach perspective to your pain.。
You're going through difficult things in life right now and it's overwhelming you and you。
need to preach perspective. It reminds me of a story that happened about a year ago.。
My brother, Rhett, who lives kind of locally in the area, has five kids now. His three-year-old。
was out. He was clearing brush behind his house and he's pulling on this branch that's。
full of thorns and he doesn't realize that his three-year-old is right behind him. When。
he pulls the brush, it gets caught, so he pulls it and it goes right into his three-year-old's。
eye, this thorny branch. I know some of you don't like eye stuff, sorry, but it starts。
bleeding right away. Pulls the branch out, looks at his son, sees his eye just start。
filling with blood. Rushes him to the hospital, to the ER. Doctor looks at him and goes, "Okay,。
here's what I know. Your son will never see again, that's for sure. The question I'm worried。
about now is, will he get an infection that goes into his brain and this becomes life-threatening?。
We need to do emergency surgery right now." So my brother sends this message to our family。
group text and we're shocked, like, "What?" Little Wesley, three-year-old, like, "No!"。
Just start praying, praying, praying, praying. And they have the surgery and as we're waiting。
to hear, like, "What's gonna happen?" My brother sends this text to us. He goes, "Hey guys,。
pretty powerful moment just happened here at the hospital." He said, "We were playing。
in the play area and another sweet family came in with their three-year-old who had。
an identical eyepatch. They had the exact same injury and the same surgeon as Wesley."。
He said, "They were there in the first day and were there in the first day whirlwind。
like us. They have seven kids and one of them is an infant which was with them, so especially。
tough for them." He said, "We were able to love them and mutually encourage one another.。
It was really special that the Lord orchestrated that we both went to the playroom at the same。
time and were able to encourage each other. Please also pray for little Gabriel. Really。
a gift to see a little good start to already come out of this terrible event," Romans 8:28.。
I just remember seeing that going, "Wow! Who talks like that? I mean, who in the midst。
of -- will my son ever see again? Is an infection going into his brain and we're gonna lose。
him?" He sent a text going, "Hey guys, praise. We're able to minister to another family.。
How cool is that?" I'm like, "What?" See, some of you need to rise above your circumstance。
not to go, "Everything's fine. It's good." No, be real. Be honest and yet try to get。
perspective. God, what are you doing in the midst of this? Your life will begin to change。
when you allow this to happen. He gets honest. He thinks and gets a spiritual perspective。
and then lastly, number three, he has a wholehearted decision before God. We'll end quickly on。
this, but this is the most important part and I just hope you hear this. He's honest,。
preaches perspective, then verse 23. This is his conclusion. He says, "Nevertheless,。
I am continually with you. You hold my right hand. You guide me with your counsel and afterwards。
you will receive me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but you and there's nothing on earth。
that I desire besides you. My heart and my flesh may fail, but God is the strength of。
my heart and my portion forever. For behold, those who are far from you, I know they'll。
perish. You put an end to everyone who is unfaithful to you, but for me, it is good。
to be near God. I have made the Lord God my refuge that I may tell of all of your works."。
He gets to the end and he starts with one of my favorite words in the whole Bible, "Nevertheless,。
regardless if anything changes in my life, here's what I know." This is the same guy。
in the same chapter, in the same book that just wrote all is in vain. Then he goes, "Nevertheless,。
my God is with me, and it's not because I was holding on to him." Look at the verbs.。
It says, "You hold me. You guide me. You receive me to glory." Then in verse 25, he says, "Whom。
have I in heaven but you. There's nothing on earth I desire besides you." Then he goes。
in verse 26 and says, "My heart and my flesh may fail." What's that mean? He says, "Not。
only if my circumstance doesn't get better, but even if it gets worse, I'm never going。
anywhere from you. Never." He says, "If everything fails me, you're the strength of my heart,。
meaning you're my rock, and you're my portion forever, meaning you're my promised land."。
Then he ends in verse 28 saying, "And as for me, I've made my decision. It is good to be。
near God." "Truly, God is good to those who are in Israel," he says at the beginning,。
and then he ends with, "All I know is it's good when I'm near you. That's what I know."。
God doesn't give him the answers that he's looking for. Did you notice that? God doesn't。
even really speak. He's having this processing moment with God, and yet God gives him himself,。
God has an add-on to his life as the orienting center, as the treasure of his life.。
And I just will say for me, personally, that this verse I memorized back in high school。
has served as a firm foundation when the storms of life come against me, against my family,。
against my marriage, against my kids, against my faith. I mean, when my son, Ty, was just。
born and in the NICU, and they tell us, "Hey, we don't know if he's going to make it, and。
we've got to do a head ultrasound and a spinal tap," when they kicked my wife and I down。
to the lobby, what did we say? "Whom have I in heaven but you?" I mean, a few months。
ago when Jet, my newest son, was in the NICU, hooked up to machines, having a hard time。
breathing, we thought he had a heart defect, "Whom have I in heaven but you?" When a year。
ago, my dog, our family dog, who's like, Jen had him before we were married. I married。
into him. It was a buy one, get one free deal when I got married. He's been with us the。
whole time. A year ago, he bit my daughter so bad, it drew blood. We took her to the。
ER. They're asking CPS questions, "Is your house safe? I feel like a terrible dad. I'm。
having to re-home our dog that I love. What was it that I was praying on the way? Whom。
have I in heaven but you?" Man, in my job, when I feel like I'm failing, like, "Am I。
doing enough? Am I good enough? Am I whatever?" "Whom have I in heaven but you?" When that。
besetting sin that I thought was dead creeps back up in my life, "Whom have I in heaven。
but you?" There's nowhere, no one else I desire besides you. My heart and flesh may。
fail. God, be the strength of my heart and my portion forever. Do you have this? Is God。
everything to you? Or is He just an add-on as long as you get everything else you want。
in life? It's the most important question you can ask. If spiritual renewal and revival。
is going to break out on the porch, it's going to be because a bunch of people broken at。
the end of themselves answer that question with humble, almost scared confidence that,。
"God, you are my chief treasure and my aim." This is what the gospel is about. It's not。
the answer to every question, but it's the reality that we get the one that our soul。
longs for in Jesus. Last story, and then we'll close. Remember, when I was in high school,。
I was when I really got on fire for my faith. I'm starting to read the Bible for myself.。
I'm like, "Wow, Jesus, you're just so much different than what I learned about growing。
up." I'm all in. I remember my friends and I having worship nights, and we're gathering。
up all night prayer sessions. We're having Bible studies in people's home. We're like,。
"Revival in our school is going to be amazing." I remember one summer going to the lake with。
some friends out in Lake Travis. As we're out there, it's a blast. Then one night, the。
group just starts to do some things that were kind of gray area at best. I remember this。
conscience that was still kind of young in my faith, but it began to wrestle. I was like,。
"Man, I don't know." I'm kind of processing it out loud like, "Guys, I don't know if we。
should be doing this." They're like, "Oh man, come on, Moffitt. Come on, have some fun.。
This is not that big of a deal." I was like, "Yeah, I don't know." Then it went from there。
to like teasing, like, "I bet you won't. Oh, you're too good for us. Oh, you think you're..."。
I'm like, "Oh, gosh." I remember, I don't even know how this happened, but I just ended。
up downstairs in the basement by myself, crying out to God, just like, "God." You know, pity。
party, like, "Why me?" It's so crazy. This is a true story. Out of the blue, a friend。
texts me. This is what he said. He said, "Hey, Tyler. Felt compelled to pray for you tonight.。
Remember Galatians 6, 7-9." I was like, "I don't know what that says." You know, so I。
went and looked it up. Guys, this is what that text said. Galatians 6 says, "Do not。
be deceived. God is not mocked. For whatever one sows, that will he also reap. For the。
one who sows to his flesh will from the flesh reap corruption. But the one who sows to the。
Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life." Then it says this line, "And let us not grow。
weary of doing good. For in due season we will reap if we do not give up." I remember。
reading that text. I remember it like it was yesterday. I remember reading that text. It。
was like a line in the sand moment for me. I don't care where everyone else goes. I don't。
care. I don't care what my friends want to do. I don't care what my own flesh wants to。
do. God, I'm signed up. I'm all in. I want to sow into your Spirit and I believe by faith。
I will reap eternal life one day. I don't care what happens in this life. I don't care。
how broken I need to be. I don't care how screwed up I need to be. I don't care how。
much surgery you need to do in my life. I am yours. And I can tell you for 15 years,。
20 years since that moment, God has been faithful to me and there's been pain in my life. I。
mean, God has had to do some incredible surgery and He's not done. I know it. But as I've。
sowed into the Spirit, all I've reaped in the midst of pain and struggle is eternal。
life. I want this for you. And I just pray, beg, God, would you stir, would you do something。
in our day that ripples through history and eternity because God was on the move here?。
And would there be some young adults in Dallas and throughout the country who lying in the。
sand go, "I'm all in. I don't care where everybody else goes. I'm all in."。
My favorite moment from the worship night last night was when Kylan got up in the very。
end. He just yelled in his Kylan Raspi voice, "God, you are welcome here." And I just。
want to end this message saying the exact same thing. "God, you are welcome here."。
Let me pray for us. Father, I believe there are some here tonight who they're in that。
moment in the "basement." Decision is on the line. Am I all in or am I continuing。
to just kind of play the game? And Lord, I hope tonight serves as a Galatians 6, 7 through。
9 text message for some people. Please, God, a wake-up call, a clarion call, a lying in。
the sand moment of I'm all in. Let goods and kindred go. This mortal life I'll sow.。
The body they may kill. God's truth abideth still. His kingdom's forever and I'm sowing。
into that. Lord, would you awaken in this room spiritual renewal and revival that starts。
with one person calling, "God, you are welcome here. You're welcome in me. Have your way.。
Whom have I in heaven but you? Nothing I desire besides you. My heart and flesh may fail.。
God, be the strength of my heart and my portion forever." Oh, Lord, would that be our clarion。
call. And then would you do what you promise. As we sow, would we reap eternal life as we。
trust you in whatever pain and hardship and difficulty and comparison this life will bring.。
We trust your way is better. It's better. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.。
Hey, we're going to do what we've done the past few weeks and we're going to open this。
altar. And it's just the front of a stage. There's nothing sacred about this except sacred。
things happen here. And maybe for you, it's you just need to get on your face before God.。
Just cry out to him. You and God have a moment, a sacred moment right here. Or maybe you need。
to come to one of our leaders here and you need to process with them and go, "Will you。
pray for me? Will you help me?" And they are, there's nothing you're going to say that's。
going to surprise them. They just want to enter in. So what business do you need to。
do with God? But here's what I know. We're not done yet. Come on, enter in and come to。
this altar and meet with the Lord. Let's go. Let's worship. Come on.。
