Good evening and welcome to the porch.。
I'm here to guide you on your journey through the complex world of。
relationships.。
Can we cue some music please? From our friendships to our romantic endeavors。
we'll explore our family bonds, estranged relationships,。
work dynamics, and perhaps even the relationship with oneself.。
So how do we relate? To answer this, we'll look to scripture and find exactly。
what God has to say about our relationships.。
This is, after all, the Relationship Series.。
Porch, how we doing? We doing okay tonight?。
Great to see you. Welcome to the Relationship Series. If you're here for。
the very first time over the course of the last several weeks we have been navigating。
God's design for connecting to one another. And I'm really excited for where。
we're headed this evening, but before we go there。
I do want to say hey to some special friends that are tuning in online. All of。
Porch Live, so grateful y'all are a part。
of what God is doing here in Dallas and I'm grateful that he's doing something。
exactly where。
you are. Special shout out to Porch Live Fresno,。
Porch Live Fort Worth, and Porch Live Midland, Texas.。
Midland down front, I love it.。
In the Count of Monte Cristo。
Edmond Dantes said, "I,。
who have also been betrayed, assassinated,。
and cast into a tomb, have emerged from that tomb by the grace of God。
and I owe it to God to take my revenge.。
He has sent me for that purpose. Here I am."。
Don Vito Corleone said in The Godfather,。
"Revenge is a dish that tastes best when served cold."。
Maximus in the movie Gladiator said, "My name is Maximus。
Decimus Meridius, commander of the armies of the North,。
general of the Felix legions, loyal servant to the true。
emperor Marcus Aurelius, father to a murdered son,。
husband to a murdered wife, and I will have my vengeance。
in this life or the next." Inigo Montoya。
in The Princess Bride said, "Hello,。
my name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father.。
Prepare to die."。
And then Taylor Swift said this,。
"But I got smarter.。
I got harder in the nick of time. Honey, I rose up from the dead.。
I do it all the time. I got a list of names。
and yours is in red underlined. I check it once,。
I check it twice. Oh, ooh,。
look what you made me do. Look what you..."。
We'll stop there.。
Oh, the feeling of revenge, something our world can relate to。
so well since every single one of us,。
regardless of where we are, what our station is in life,。
we'll find ourselves betrayed to one degree or the next.。
Why do I tell you that? Because this idea of betrayal,。
whether it's a betrayal of values or personality or privacy。
or your background or religious affiliation,。
whatever it may be,。
all of us are subject to being betrayed at one point or another.。
And that betrayal is frequently the underlying force behind most estranged。
relationships today. It's interesting.。
If you go and you look at the market research,。
what you'll find is that the largest national survey on estranged。
relationships recently found that 25% of Americans。
will experience an estranged relationship at some point in their life.。
That means one out of every four people will experience estrangement,。
meaning that Prince Harry and Meghan Markle aren't the only ones that feel a。
rift in the family.。
You and I are subject to experiencing this at some point ourselves.。
To carry on the idea,。
just one look at the bestsellers list for parenting and relationships on Amazon。
will prove this is also true because books like Set Boundaries,。
Find Peace, Adult Children of Emotionally Immature Parents.。
It's not you identifying and healing from narcissistic people.。
I'm glad my mom died, which is apparently a comedy,。
but it sounds like there's some pain there.。
And Trauma Bonding all made the top 25.。
In a different study done by Cornell,。
researchers found that 10% of all people surveyed within our nation are。
presently in an estranged relationship.。
That right now out of the total American population,。
10% of people are experiencing estrangement.。
That means that 33 million people right now are experiencing this.。
Why do I tell you all of this information?。
Because there's a strong probability that each of us will face estrangement at。
some point in our life.。
And there's a really strong possibility that some of you are facing。
estrangement right here tonight.。
And the reason I unpack all of that for you is because we need to understand。
what does it look like for us to move through what is likely,。
not just a possibility, but an inevitability for all of us,。
that we're not just going to experience it personally,。
but we're likely going to meet someone, know someone,。
be related to someone that is experiencing this themselves.。
How do we move our way through it?。
As we consider lost love and broken relationships and damaged unions on the。
basis of things like abuse, whether it's sexual or emotional or,。
or physical or divorce or abandonment by a parent or a violation of one's own。
privacy, or your boundaries are not respected by someone,。
there's control and manipulation perpetuated in your life by someone else.。
What does it look like for us to walk through these types of difficulties and。
find ourselves better on the other side?。
You see estrangement.。
It's not something that we should ask the question of whether or not it will。
find us. The question is, what do we do when it finds us?。
Which is exactly what I want to talk to you about tonight.。
In order for us to do it, we're going to be in the book of Genesis.。
So if you have a Bible,。
you can go ahead and grab it and you can turn with me a good place for you to。
land is probably chapter 42, but I'll just level with you from the get go here.。
We're going to be all over the grid because the guy we're looking at tonight,。
one who is extremely familiar with betrayal is a guy by the name of Joseph.。
And what you need to know is that his story,。
it unpacks from chapter 37 all the way to chapter 50.。
And so we're going to work through all of that literature together tonight.。
And so we're not going to be in just one passage.。
We're going to be moving across a lot of scripture.。
And so here's my encouragement to you.。
Follow what's on the screens and then go read it later on.。
Like read all 13 chapters,。
catch up on what's happening in the life of Joseph.。
But why we're looking at him is because I want us to consider how do we walk the。
road back from betrayal?。
And he's the perfect person to look at to help us understand it because this。
brother's story is riddled with betrayal.。
Like you meet him when he's 17 years old and you find that more cycles of。
betrayal and abuse move through his life in just a matter of 13 years,。
then likely many of us will experience in a lifetime.。
Just to give you some context so that way you understand Joseph was abused by。
his family, trafficked by strangers, used by people he worked for,。
sexually assaulted by his boss's wife, falsely accused,。
thrown in prison and forgotten by the people that he thought were his friends.。
For 13 years he moves from one abusive situation to another.。
He's betrayed by people he trusts and he is victimized again and again and again.。
Never do you see him as being solely in the wrong.。
He never takes the offending seat.。
He is always sitting in the offended seat.。
And yet though this happens to him over and over and over again,。
what you find as you study Joseph's story is that he's not alone because over。
and over and over again, God was with him.。
Which brings us to our first point as we consider what it looks like to walk the。
road back from betrayal in our lives.。
We need to know that God never abandons the abandoned.。
God never abandons the abandoned.。
Like after Joseph was beaten and stripped and sold into slavery by his brothers,。
we learned that God didn't abandon him. It says in Genesis 39 verses two through。
three,。
you'll find them on the screens that the Lord was with Joseph and he became a。
successful man and he was in the house of his Egyptian master.。
His master saw the Lord was with him and that the Lord caused all that he did to。
succeed in his hands.。
So much so that he rose to power within his master's house.。
His master's name was Potiphar and Joseph,。
because the Lord's favor was upon his life, rises to a position of power.。
So much so that he's running the entire estate.。
Things are going extremely well until Potiphar's wife tries to seduce him.。
And because he rejects her as her advances and she's scorned in rejection,。
she ends up deciding to lie about him,。
mar his character, have him fired from his job,。
and then ultimately thrown in prison. And yet though all of it happened,。
guess what? God did not abandon him.。
We see in Genesis 39, 21,。
but the Lord was with Joseph and he showed him steadfast love and he gave him。
favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. So much favor, in fact,。
that Joseph, he's not just a prisoner.。
He is the leader of the entire cell block.。
Like he's running the prison and he,。
what he finds is he's doing so as he meets a couple of different guys,。
some cellmates of his that are having some dreams.。
They're losing sleep to a couple of different dreams.。
They can't seem to interpret. And that's kind of Joseph's specialty.。
You know anything about a story? He's the interpreter of dreams.。
And so they unpack for him what they're dreaming about in the evening.。
And Joseph tells him exactly what's up.。
And what we learned is that one of them gets out of prison and ultimately。
re-ascends back to the court of Pharaoh himself. And Joseph tells him, Hey,。
that's going to happen. And once you go, don't forget about me.。
Like I'm locked up down here, but I'm not supposed to be down here.。
So when you get back to Pharaoh's side,。
remember my name and bring me out from where I am.。
But as goes Joseph's luck,。
he's totally forgotten about he's left in prison.。
The guy does not keep his word whatsoever.。
That is until Pharaoh begins to have some dreams of his own,。
some things that he cannot interpret.。
And so he decides to ask around and see if anybody knows of someone that can。
prophesy of dreams.。
And it just so happens that Joseph's old cellmate remembers,。
I do know a guy there's this guy named Joe.。
He's down in cell block A pull him out. He can help you interpret his dream.。
And so Joseph gets brought out to Pharaoh and he begins to interpret to Pharaoh。
all that he's been dreaming. And he not only tells him, Hey,。
this is the problem becoming, he tells him of a solution to that problem.。
Pharaoh's so impressed. He hires him on the spot, brings him onto his team.。
And what you realize is that God did not abandon him. Genesis 41,。
37 through 41 says this proposal, the one that Joseph made,。
it pleased Pharaoh and all his servants. And Pharaoh said to his servants,。
can we find a man like this? And whom is the spirit of God?。
He's kind of one of a kind. And then Pharaoh said to Joseph,。
since God has shown you all this,。
there is none so discerning and wise as you are.。
You shall be over my house and all my people shall order themselves as you。
command. Only as regards the throne, will I be greater than you.。
That's a position of power.。
He's second in command of the ruling empire of the day, Egypt.。
And that's exactly what Pharaoh says.。
See I have set you over all the land of Egypt. You see over and over again,。
though Joseph was repeatedly abandoned by those he trusted,。
he was never abandoned by a God who was actually trustworthy.。
He's never abandoned by God who's actually a treasure. And because he knew it,。
Joseph never takes matters into his own hands.。
Like he never rages against the heavens or raise the fist to God.。
He never tries to finesse and angle his way out of the difficulties he's facing.。
Instead, he just decides to trust the Lord where he is.。
Despite the fact that all the betrayal he's experienced has,。
has leveled him to a position he never should have been in.。
He trusts the Lord who raises him consistently.。
And what's crazy about it is no one would have blamed him if he would have。
raised a fist to heaven. Like no one would have looked at him and be like, dude,。
you're crazy. Like, why are you doing that?。
Because the odds are that we would have done that ourself.。
That we in the face of such injustice would have looked at God and been like,。
what are you doing? Why is this happening? It makes no sense, God.。
And yet Joseph doesn't do it.。
And it's interesting,。
like as I was trying to pull together some examples to just help us understand。
how popularized revenge is in our culture,。
I decided to kind of leave them on the table because I don't need to pull a bunch。
of mainstream references to help us understand that revenge is popular.。
I just need to point to you because the truth of the matter is we think revenge。
is a pretty popular idea.。
Like we need to only look to ourself to realize that this is often the response。
we choose ourselves that we don't reflect what Joseph does.。
We instead reflect what the world does. Like just think about it.。
What happens when you get cut off in traffic?。
You laugh because you do know what happens when you get cut off in traffic. Oh,。
no, you didn't. You like,。
you get the gas and you swear out and you cut them off and you make sure that you。
get right back in your respective position.。
You establish street side superiority. How dare they?。
Like what happens when someone writes a negative comment on one of your posts?。
You know what? I'm going to get on their profile. I'm going to incriminate them.。
I'm going to figure out what it is about them that gives them absolutely no。
validity with any respect to an opinion that they have to say about me.。
And then you know what I'm going to do?。
I'm going to respond to something that's so much smarter than what they said that。
they're going to look dumb in front of everybody that's read their post.。
What about when you run into the people that used to mock you in high school?。
Oh baby, when that 10 year reunion shows up, I'm going to look good.。
I'm going to be successful. I'm going to be fit. I'm going to be ready.。
They're going to know I'm going to make sure everyone's put on notice that I。
have actually surpassed them all. This is our natural response.。
Like we don't want to turn the other cheek. We don't want to pull punches.。
We don't want to bite our tongue. We want justice. We want vindication.。
We want revenge.。
So what are you wanting revenge for tonight?。
And let me ask, like, what do you think it's going to cost you to get it?。
If the research is true,。
it's going to cost you so much more than it's going to cost the person you're。
actually trying to get revenge from.。
Martin Luther King jr. said this in spite of the fact that the law of revenge。
solves no social problems,。
men continue to follow its disastrous leading history.。
It's cluttered with the wreckage of nations and individuals that pursued this。
self-defeating path.。
So if we're not supposed to pursue revenge,。
how then are we supposed to respond differently to the injustices in our life?。
Well, we need to remember what Joseph does. What does Joseph do?。
What does Joseph know?。
He knows the sovereignty of God rules over the atrocities of men.。
That the sovereignty of God rules over every atrocity in mankind.。
So just a few years ago, some really dear friends of mine and Brooke,。
they were dealt with some really tragic news.。
They learned that they had had a miscarriage and the reason it was especially。
difficult for them in that moment,。
though every miscarriage is tragic was because this was their first pregnancy.。
And so they learned that they had had a miscarriage and in a moment where no one。
would have blamed them for being frustrated with God,。
like no one would have looked at them and be like, man,。
it doesn't make sense that you're not angry with the Lord,。
that you don't feel like he's abandoned you,。
that you're actually raising a fist and raging against the heavens.。
They chose not to do any of it. Instead, they remained faithful,。
consistent in their belief. Why?。
Because they trusted God's character. They trusted God's sovereignty.。
They knew there's nothing in heaven or on earth that does not。
pass, which God does not allow. And what we know is he's good.。
Our God is so good. And so therefore we're not going to give up on him.。
We're not going to question him.。
We're not going to lose trust because we believe he's the one that's in control.。
He's the one that works for good.。
He's the one that takes something so broken as this and somehow he makes it into。
beauty. And because this was their perspective,。
they named their little girl Eden,。
which means delight in the reason they named her Eden is because as they would。
tell her story to those watching around,。
they wanted people to know, Hey, God is the giver of life,。
not just in the here and now, but he's the giver of life forever and always.。
That's what a perspective that properly understands God's sovereignty looks。
like. A perspective like that,。
like it can stare down the barrel of the world's worst and it can still stake。
claim on the fact that God is good, that he can be counted on.。
That he's not forgotten, that he's not run out on you,。
that he hasn't abandoned you. Deuteronomy 31,。
8 says it is the Lord who goes before you.。
He will be with you. He won't leave you or forsake you.。
Do not fear or be dismayed.。
Hebrews 13, 6 says so we can confidently say the Lord is my helper.。
I will not fear. What can man do to me? This kind of perspective,。
it's so important as we consider what it looks like to walk back down the road。
from betrayal. Because without this kind of perspective,。
everything else we talk about moving forward from this point here tonight is。
fruitless. Like if you don't have this focus,。
then everything else is useless. You might as well pack up and go home.。
Because Joseph, everything in his life,。
it was undergirded by the reality that he trusted God. He knew the Lord is。
sovereign. So whatever comes, hell, high water, I'm going to be okay.。
I trust the Lord is with me. He knew.。
God doesn't just react to what happens in people's lives.。
He rules over people's lives, that there are no exceptions to God's sovereignty.。
Not even you, not even your story.。
Like God, he doesn't waste our pain. But here's the thing, Borge,。
we can waste our pain if we're not careful.。
Like as we look at the story of Joseph, what we see is that,。
is that though he trusted the Lord and God provided for him time and again,。
he still,。
he still had some piece of his heart living in the shadow of his estrangement.。
That though he was able to move forward in life,。
what you see is he doesn't actually walk back from betrayal.。
He walks down the road into bitterness.。
And the way we know it is because if we keep reading in his story, we see, man,。
he's gotten everything he's wanted. Like no one would,。
no one would think otherwise from trading into a life like Joseph had when he。
found himself in Egypt because he ascended to the right hand of Pharaoh.。
Like he got a new name and he got a new house and he got a new wife and he got a。
new family. Like everything looked amazing.。
And yet as he stands at the precipice of all this new,。
he looks into his family and he decides to name his sons a couple of different。
things. It says in Genesis 41, 51 and 52,。
Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh.。
For he said, God has made me forget all my hardship and all my father's house.。
The name of the second he called Ephraim.。
For God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction.。
How do we know that Joseph didn't waste his pain?。
Because if we look at the names of these two boys,。
what we realize is he basically names his kids,。
screw you and look at me now.。
That's essentially what he does. Like he looks,。
he looks at his former life and he says, no, no, no. In my now life,。
the life that I have here today,。
I'm going to establish and identify the fact that I'm not who I once was,。
that what you did to me isn't being done to me any longer.。
Like he decides in response to the powerlessness that he felt as a child to。
declare his power through his own children.。
And it's because his betrayal grew into bitterness. Why?。
Because the longer you dwell on an offense,。
the more data you begin to collect about that offense.。
And the more data you collect about an offense,。
brews more disdain for the offender. And we know this,。
like this is why when someone pokes a little fun at you or they take a quick。
jab or they make a passing comment, when you should just dismiss it,。
you dwell on it. And as you dwell on that one thing, they said,。
you start to think about everything that they said.。
And if you think about everything they said,。
you start to think about all the ways they said it.。
And if you start to think about all the ways they said,。
you start to think about what they probably meant by it.。
And where it was just a passing comment about something weird you wore once is。
now like a meticulously curated assault on your identity because you have。
embittered yourself against them.。
You have imprisoned yourself to their thoughts about you.。
You have allowed what they said to take greater root in your life than it was。
ever meant to.。
You've allowed it to take greater real estate in your heart than it was ever。
meant to. That's why victim mentality is just self-sabotage.。
Like it's imprisoning yourself to the past until you're so burnt up with。
bitterness that the greatest betrayer in your story isn't anyone else.。
It's you.。
And yet the author of Hebrews tells us of a different way.。
He says in chapter 12,。
make every effort to live in peace with everyone and to be Holy.。
Without holiness, no one will see the Lord.。
See to it that no one falls short of the grace of God and that no bitter root。
grows up to cause trouble and defile many.。
What's he saying? Bitterness is like a weed.。
So when I became a homeowner,。
the man in me was instantaneously in love with his front yard.。
I loved it. I love striping that thing and edges,。
that thing and making it look plush.。
Like I prided myself on that green pillow top mattress I called my front yard。
and I so prided myself in it that I waged war on anything that would seek to。
kill it, which meant I took weeds very seriously.。
What's the best way to deal with weeds?。
You do not wait until they break through the soil.。
You address the issue before they ever even appear.。
You weed and feed. You do exactly what the Puritans used to say.。
Like you, you keep short accounts with both God and men。
because, and this is your second point,。
the only cure for a bitter spirit is a forgiving heart.。
The only cure for a bitter spirit is a forgiving heart,。
which is something we learn in chapter 42 as Joseph and his brothers,。
they finally collide.。
Like they come face to face for the very first time in 13 total years.。
After all of this estrangement, here they are face to face.。
And it's at this point in the story when famine has struck the land and it's。
caused Joseph's brothers to come to him that we read this in Genesis 42.。
Now Joseph was governor over the land.。
He was the one who sold to all the people of the land and Joseph's brothers,。
they came and they bowed themselves before him with their faces to the ground.。
And Joseph saw his brothers and he recognized them,。
but he treated them like strangers. And he spoke roughly to them.。
Where do you come from? He said, they said from the land of Canaan to buy food.。
And Joseph recognized his brothers, but they did not recognize him.。
Why didn't they recognize him?。
Because a lot changes between 17 and 30 years old, right?。
And he was now an Egyptian, which meant that he had shaved his face.。
He had changed his clothes. He didn't look like them any longer.。
They did not recognize him.。
And Joseph remembered the dreams that he had dreamed of them.。
Those dreams, which God had given to him at one point in his story,。
before all of the betrayal began,。
those dreams where he saw 12 sheaves of wheat。
bowing down before him. He remembers it in this moment.。
And what he realizes is that dream wasn't about something in the past.。
That dream was about this moment right here and now.。
And what it helps him to realize is that he didn't arrive at this moment,。
tossed to and fro by the whims and will of man.。
He arrived at this moment by the working of God.。
Like it liberates him. It moves him out of,。
out of being a victim of bitterness.。
And it allows him to become an agent of forgiveness.。
He realizes in this moment that I've not been,。
I've not been under the thumb of men more powerful than me.。
I've been under the hand of a God more powerful than them.。
That God has been orchestrating my steps. He has been directing my movement.。
He has brought me to this moment right now.。
And so it enables me to leave my bitterness and take up my forgiveness.。
So what does it look like to forgive? What's it look like to forgive?。
How do we do it? Is it the act?。
Is it an act of the heart that you know what that hurt really bad?。
I don't hurt anymore.。
I've decided to put all that pain away and now I feel so good.。
I have such bliss because of you. Or is it an act of the mind that though,。
that does hurt so very bad.。
I will reason myself towards reconciliation.。
That is a preferred future and I will establish my steps to move that direction.。
No, it's neither of those things. Forgiveness is an act of the will.。
It's an act of the will.。
It's a choice to forgive the other person.。
And here's the thing like that can feel like, Oh,。
I'm just supposed to choose to forgive them. That can feel really disabling.。
And yet it's not disabling when you think about the motivation that undergirds。
that choice. Because when you make a choice to forgive,。
you do so on the basis of a love that transcends what they did to you and。
depends on what Christ did for you.。
That's why you can do it. Luke 7 47 says,。
therefore I tell you her sins, which are many, they're forgiven. Why?。
Because she loved much, but he was forgiven. Little loves little.。
You see,。
we're able to forgive because we have been forgiven ourselves.。
Not because we earned it or we deserved it,。
but simply because Christ chose to give it.。
That's why. So what does forgiveness look like?。
Forgiveness looks like setting your oppressor free. That's it.。
Forgiveness looks like setting your oppressor free.。
If you look at forgiveness in the Greek, it literally means to set free.。
Like that's the idea. Like forgiveness,。
it doesn't use its power to make that person pay or it doesn't keep them。
underneath your thumb. It doesn't keep score against them.。
It doesn't hold a grudge.。
It doesn't pray to God to strike them down at some point in the future.。
That's not what forgiveness does. No.。
Forgiveness releases them from your hate.。
It liberates them from their shame.。
It frees them from their failure.。
And the reason we know that is because this is what Christ has done for us.。
He has forgiven us our worst selves.。
Like the watershed of grace covers,。
not just some of your sin, brother, sister, it covers all of it.。
It covers every part of your story,。
especially the parts that you cringe the most over.。
And because we've been forgiven like that, we forgive like that. Now,。
am I saying that people shouldn't be held accountable for their actions? No,。
of course not. Truthfully,。
everyone needs to be held accountable for their evil and some should face。
prosecution if it's criminal or if it's abusive. But here's the thing, porch.。
The goal is never retribution.。
That's always rehabilitation. Like it's not, you did this to me.。
Now look what I'm going to do to you. That's not the heart of forgiveness.。
So the heart of forgiveness is I want to help you get better.。
Like I want to do what is loving towards you,。
which means I'm going to give you an upward hand.。
I'm going to move you to a new station in life.。
I'm going to help you become who Christ wants you to become.。
That's why Jesus says in Matthew 18, if your brother sins against you,。
go and tell him his fault between you and him alone,。
which I think is really important because we often want to tell everybody else.。
But when someone offends you, the goal would be to go and tell,。
go and tell them directly between you and them alone.。
And the reason you do it is because if they listen to you,。
you've gained your brother. Do you see it?。
Like the motive behind accountability, it's not vengeance.。
It's not to get back at someone. It's to win them over. It's to help them out.。
It's to lead them to life. It's to ultimately make them more like Christ.。
Like it's a desire for the restoration of the individual.。
And it's a desire for the reconciliation of the relationship.。
But here's what you need to know. Forgiveness,。
it is the precursor to reconciliation, but where forgiveness is a choice,。
reconciliation is a process because reconciliation is a process more than a。
decision. Your third point for the night.。
Reconciliation is a process more than a decision where forgiveness is an act of。
the will. Reconciliation is an act of wisdom.。
We see it in Joseph's own story.。
Like he realizes that God has been in control this entire time,。
that everything that's come to pass has been under the rule and the reign of。
God's own sovereignty. And we learn like in chapter 42,。
he forgives them from his heart.。
But it's not until chapter 45 that the two disparate parties are actually。
reconciled to one another. Why? Like, why did it take three extra chapters?。
Why couldn't he have done it all in chapter 42?。
Why did he have to wait until chapter 45 to get to a place where he could。
forgive his brother and reconcile the relationship?。
Because he needed to,。
he needed to know that they were ready to reconcile themselves.。
He needed to know that they were safe to be reconciled to.。
And some of you need to know that tonight.。
Like you're in the midst of an estranged relationship,。
whether it's from a parent or it's an old romantic interest,。
or it's a brother or a sister or someone in your community that you're。
no longer friends with, whatever the nature of your estranged relationship,。
you're in a position tonight where you're longing for some kind of reconciliation.。
Like you want to bury the hatchet. You want to go back to the way things were.。
You want to go further than the way things were.。
You want to be better than it ever was before.。
And yet what you need to know is that they're safe to be reconciled to.。
If you're here and you're the offending party, you need to consider,。
what does it look like for me to grow in a way that demonstrates to the other。
that I'm safe to be with, that I'm someone you can trust, that I have matured.。
I have learned, I have surpassed my selfishness.。
What we learn,。
and I'm so grateful that this is what happens in Joseph's story is we actually。
get a picture of what it looks like to move towards reconciliation.。
And we learned that it's two things that it's A plus B equals C that point one。
and point two is going to equal reconciliation. So what are the two points?。
Point one is that you have to test, improve the individual.。
You have to test, improve. We won't read it for the sake of time,。
but chapters 42, 43 and 44,。
they're all about the process Joseph goes through to discern if his brothers are。
safe enough to reconcile with. It's fascinating.。
Like he's so thoughtful about the way he tests improves his brothers.。
Like first he claims as they come to him in chapter 42,。
you're here to spy out the land of Egypt,。
which is a reflection of their claim that he came to spy them out for the sake。
of their father. Next,。
he binds one of their brothers Simeon before their eyes to be left in a foreign。
land,。
which parallels perfectly the fact that he was bound to be sent into a foreign。
land himself. As you move on from there,。
you find that as they go to prepare to return to Canaan,。
he has his servants secretly put money into their sacks so that as they make the。
journey home, they'll find that they were paid.。
How do we even get this money?。
And the reason he does it is because when they sold him off,。
they had money from the exchange.。
They went home with money in their sack. It doesn't just stop there.。
Like once they returned to Egypt with their youngest and most beloved brother,。
Benjamin,。
Joseph sets him up that youngest and most beloved brother to appear as if he。
stole this silver cup,。
Joseph's own cup to test whether or not the brothers would sell him out the way。
they sold him out to save their own hide.。
Why is Joseph doing all that? Is he just trying to get his pound of flesh?。
He's trying to help them live through some semblance of what he himself。
suffered. No, that's not what he's trying to do.。
He is trying to take them back to the same scenario they once lived through。
together to see how they respond. Hey,。
in the face of a very similar situation,。
do you respond with violence and aggression and selfishness or do you respond。
differently? Have you changed? Have you matured?。
Have you grown and transformed?。
Are you worthy of my trust today because you weren't worthy of it then,。
but I'm willing to consider if you're worthy of it now because I want us to be。
reconciled to one another. He tests and he proves him.。
Here's what you need to know, Porch. If you're wanting for reconciliation,。
then you have to understand what I mean by testing and proving.。
It is not a sufficient justification for reconciliation to hear someone say,。
man, I know what I did was wrong and I really want to do better.。
That's not enough. It's not enough to have really well-meaning intentions.。
No, there needs to be faithful action behind it.。
Now,。
as they work to attest to the quality of their character and the consistency of。
their godliness, you pray for them. You wait with them. You see,。
if you go and you read a story, Joseph breaks bread with his brothers.。
He enjoys their company. He does so in safe spaces,。
but he doesn't rush to reconciliation because he needs to test and prove that。
they are who he needs them to be. And you have to do the same.。
So the first thing you have to do is you have to test and prove.。
The second thing that must be true is there must be grace and truth.。
That's what we see in chapter 45. If you jump ahead a little bit,。
like after Joseph has tested and proven that his brothers are in fact safe to。
reconcile with, we read this verse three, and Joseph said to his brothers,。
I'm Joseph. Like, is my father still alive? But his brothers,。
they could not answer him for they were dismayed at his presence. You know,。
they were caught. Oh my gosh, you're him. Like you're the guy that we sold off.。
Oh my God. Like what's going to happen to us. And yet he looks at me and says,。
no, come near to me, please. And they came near and he said,。
I'm your brother, Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt.。
And now don't be distressed or angry with yourselves because you sold me here。
for God sent me before you to preserve life.。
What's Joseph do? He speaks the truth to him.。
He tells them what happened.。
He tells them the God's honest truth of everything he endured,。
but not because he's trying to heap up guilt on them. Man, look what you guys did.。
Look what you made me live through. How could you, how dare you?。
He doesn't do that. He tells them the truth, not just once.。
He tells them twice that they sold him into Egypt。
because it's only when the truth is known,。
can grace respond.。
Like he doesn't tell them because he wants them to be filled with guilt.。
He tells them because he wants to flood them with grace.。
That's why he does it. And that's what we have to do.。
We must be willing to speak the truth because then it prepares space for grace。
to invade. It's really interesting.。
As you study the reconciliation account of Joseph,。
what you realize is that over the course of chapters 42 to 50,。
he cries seven different times.。
If you're a Bible nerd, you're going to love this.。
I think this is the coolest thing ever because if you track those different。
crying accounts, what you realize is they have a chiastic structure,。
which just simply means they are all pointing to the main idea of the story.。
And so when you look at it, the first time he cries,。
mirrors the seventh time he cries.。
The second time he cries mirrors the sixth time he cries.。
The third time mirrors the fifth and the one that has no reflection that is the。
main point,。
that is the hinge upon which the entire story is turning is the fourth time he。
cries. And what you realize is it's in verse 15.。
It's right after he has told them the truth of what they did and he has made。
space for grace to invade.。
We read this in verse 15 and he kissed all his brothers and he wept upon them.。
After that, his brothers talked with him.。
Like this is the marquee moment of their reconciliation.。
That's what this moment signifies.。
That's what this chiasm has been pointing to that they are going to be。
reconciled to one another,。
which can fill some of us with so much hope.。
Like we're here tonight and we do have an estranged relationship in our life and。
a strange relationship with a parent or a sibling, whoever it may be.。
And we're like, God, like there is hope for me.。
We can be reconciled. And yet for some of you,。
you hear that and all you feel is hopelessness。
because for whatever reason,。
reconciliation is not an option for you at this time.。
You see,。
the reason it isn't is because either you can't reconcile or you won't reconcile.。
So let me speak to you in the room. If that's you tonight,。
if you can't reconcile,。
then what you need to know is that you have to trust the Lord.。
Like if you can't reconcile because they're not around anymore,。
because a parent has since died and they've moved on or because they don't care。
anymore, they've abandoned you and they've left you all alone.。
If the reason you are unable to seek reconciliation is because it's just not。
possible, you cannot do it.。
Then what you have to know is you must trust the Lord.。
You have to trust the Lord. That's the appropriate response.。
Because here's the thing, Porch.。
If you study the scriptures and you track where everything is heading,。
God is going to reconcile everything at some point in the future.。
He is going to right every wrong. He is going to wipe every tear.。
He is going to make things well again.。
And so if you're here and you can't reconcile, then just know this.。
He can for you. He will do it.。
He will face your injustices on your behalf.。
For others of you, you're here and you won't reconcile.。
Like Kyle, you don't know what they did to me.。
Like you don't know where they took me, what they did to me,。
the way they invaded my privacy, the way that they controlled my life,。
the way they pushed me underneath their will.。
They subjected me to their oppression. You don't know.。
I'm not going to forgive them. I won't do it. It is insane what they did.。
What you need is grace. That's what you need.。
And I'm not rushing you to that end, but I am saying。
you have a high King in heaven who knows full well what it feels like to be。
betrayed, slandered,。
mocked, scorned, spit upon.。
And totally,。
totally asundered.。
He had grace for them.。
There's a scripture that says he wants all people to come to the knowledge of his。
repentance.。
And that includes the person that perpetuated whatever that insidious evil is。
against you.。
So you have grace for them because your King has grace for them too.。
And yet there are some of us here that aren't filled with hopelessness at the。
thought of this. You're filled with hope.。
And yet what you need to know is you consider the thought of like, man,。
I can reconcile and things can be great again. We can move back,。
not just to where they've been, but we can go forward to where it should be.。
What you need to know is reconciliation is not going to be perfect.。
Like if you track the story of Joseph and his brothers,。
what you see is it's not just five pages away.。
There's a rift in the family again.。
That as you come to the end of Genesis in chapter 50,。
you find that his brothers,。
they're terrified because their father has gone to be with the Lord.。
He has passed away. And as they look at Joseph, they're like, man,。
he has no reason to treat us well any longer. Like dad's not here.。
He doesn't have to play nice anymore.。
He could have been doing this for dad all along, but now he could be rid of us.。
He could dispense of us. We don't know what he's going to do.。
They're wracked with fear. And yet Joseph tells them in the face of that fear,。
he says in Genesis 50, do not fear.。
For am I in the place of God? As for you, you meant evil against me,。
but God,。
God meant it for good to bring it about that many people should be kept alive。
as they are today. Joseph says, God rules my life.。
Like he ruled it to this day and he will rule it for all my days.。
And even though there were times in the past that were hard,。
look at the way he's restored it. Look at the way he's redeemed it.。
I have a story, the likes of which only God could write. I trust him.。
I don't trust myself. Am I in the place of God? No, you're safe with me.。
God has been good no matter what may come.。
Even when our father passes and future adversity prevails,。
I know that my hope is secure,。
that I have a steadfast promise, that I have a truth which is trustworthy。
because God is with me. Do you know that?。
Do you know that for yourself that God is with you?。
And so as you move forward in life and you face the estrangements in your story。
and you seek after reconciliation,。
that no matter what is ahead, God will provide. He'll take care of you.。
You see, that's not just the narrative of Joseph's story.。
That is the narrative of Jesus's story.。
That every one of us, we were estranged from God.。
We were separated in our sin.。
We were totally alienated from his presence.。
And yet what you know is that Adam and Eve, our father and mother,。
sin against God and they're sent away from him and they move to the East.。
God goes with them.。
That God's heart was never to have distance between you and him,。
but his heart was to bridge the gap.。
And he planned it from the very beginning of the Bible.。
That he always wanted to build a bridge and make a way for you to come home to。
him again. That estrangement wouldn't be your story.。
And the reason we know is because he never abandoned us.。
Like Jesus Christ came for us when we were worthy of being。
abandoned. And he didn't just come to be with us,。
but he came to save us,。
to cure the bitterness of our sin through his forgiving work on the。
cross, by absorbing into himself all the consequence of your sin.。
Did you know like your sin is worthy of eternal damnation?。
And yet Christ said, I don't want that for you.。
I will take that instead.。
I will absorb the wrath of God into me that you might have。
reconciliation with God instead,。
that you can have relationship to him instead that you can receive his love。
instead.。
And in his resurrection, Jesus has reconciled us.。
That any who would place their faith in him,。
they would be restored in full working right,。
in a wonderful relationship to God.。
If you're here and you're considering the estranged relationships in your story,。
the first thing you must consider。
is whether or not you're estranged from God.。
His heart is to be reunited to you.。
We have to first approach him before we can approach anyone else.。
Let me pray for us. God, we're so grateful for this evening.。
Thank you God for just being kind to us.。
That's the story of the gospel.。
You're kind and merciful and loving and gracious God.。
And we know you never abandoned us.。
That when we went far off, you did not leave us alone, but you chased us down.。
You raced after us and you are God's seeking to bring us home.。
I pray God if there are friends here tonight that do not know you before they。
would consider any other relationship, they would just consider you.。
That God they have to get a relationship with you before God,。
they can have a relationship with others.。
Lord, I know this idea of estrangement, it's such a painful concept.。
As we sing this last song, Lord,。
I pray that you would be near to the broken heart of the God.。
You would save the crushed in spirit that those who are here and they are。
wildly estranged from someone,。
they might sense your kindness near to them this evening in greater measure than。
they ever have before. We love you, Lord. And it is in Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
