(upbeat music)。
♪ Jesus you are ♪。
♪ Jesus you are ♪。
♪ Jesus you are ♪。
♪ Jesus you are ♪。
- Well, good morning, Watermark.。
How are we doing today?。
(audience cheering)。
Hey, it's good to see you.。
I'm so glad you made it.。
If this is your first time ever with us on a Sunday,。
I genuinely hope that this is a place。
and this is a morning where you will take a step。
with Jesus Christ.。
It's a different morning for us.。
It's a special morning。
because not only are we having church right now,。
we're also having Awaken right now.。
(audience cheering)。
So if you're an Awaken attendee, welcome to church.。
Welcome to Watermark.。
And if you are part of the Watermark family,。
welcome to Awaken.。
Two things are happening at the same time right now。
and that's an incredible thing.。
My hope for you, if you're an Awaken attendee,。
here's my hope for you,。
is that just by joining us for church this morning,。
I hope you would understand that Jesus Christ came。
not to just save you from your sin,。
but to save you into a family。
with brothers and sisters in the faith.。
So if you don't belong to a church family,。
if you live in Dallas, come be a part of Watermark.。
If you don't live in Dallas, then go home and plug in.。
The Christian life was never meant to be lived alone,。
but with the people of God.。
This morning, I'm so excited。
'cause you're gonna get to hear from my friend, David Platt.。
If you're not familiar with David,。
he is the lead pastor of McLean Bible Church。
in the Washington D.C. area.。
He is an author.。
He's the founder and leader of Radical,。
which is a ministry committed。
to taking Jesus everywhere to the end of the earth.。
He's married to Heather.。
They've got kids.。
And here's what I would say about David.。
In the time that I've spent with him。
over the last several years,。
one, he is the real deal.。
Like, there are people that when you get around them,。
their love for Jesus is genuine and contagious.。
And anytime I get to be around David,。
I leave wanting to know Jesus more intimately.。
The second thing that I would share about him。
is God used his voice, David's voice,。
in my life back in 2019。
to open my eyes to the responsibility that I have。
in taking the gospel to the end of the earth.。
And so if you belong to Watermark,。
you've heard me talk about us being a sending church.。
Like, we feel a weight and responsibility。
for the gospel to go to those in the world。
who do not have it yet.。
And you just need to know that God used David in my life。
as a shaping force as I understood my responsibility。
with the Great Commission.。
The last thing that I'd say about David。
before I bring him up here,。
is if you are one of those people who loves the Tubbs,。
like the Tubbs were with us last Sunday,。
I got the Tubbs from David Platt.。
So if you love the Tubbs, you love David Platt.。
So would you do an incredible job this morning。
of welcoming David Platt to Watermark Community Church?。
(congregation applauding)。
And I just wanna take a moment and I wanna pray.。
Let's pray just like we do every Sunday morning.。
And if you're with us for the first time,。
here's what I wanna invite you to do.。
We believe that when we open up God's word,。
it's like we're opening up his mouth。
and we can hear from him.。
So would you pray for yourself and say,。
God, would you speak to me this morning?。
And then would you pray for the people around you。
and ask God to speak to them as well?。
And then would you pray for David。
and ask God to speak through him to you?。
Well, Holy Spirit, I just wanna ask him pray。
that right now you would lead and guide us into all truth.。
Would you illuminate our hearts and our minds。
as the word of God is taught?。
I pray that Christ would be glorified this morning.。
Lord, we need you, we love you.。
If there's anyone in this room right now。
who does not have a real relationship with Jesus Christ,。
then I pray right now that their eyes would be open。
to the wonderful reality of knowing Christ.。
Lord, would you have your way in this room right now?。
We need you, we love you, amen.。
>> Well, if you have a Bible,。
and I hope you or somebody around you does。
that you can look on with,。
let me invite you to open with me to Isaiah chapter 55.。
Feel free to use table of contents if you need to.。
Isaiah chapter 55, and while you're turning,。
I wanna say a few things.。
One, I thank God for your pastor, T.A.。
It's interesting, as he was sharing that about me,。
ever since the first moment I met him years ago,。
I have seen in T.A. a humility and wisdom。
and courage and compassion and gentle boldness。
that reflect Jesus, and I'm so thankful。
for his encouragement and example in my life.。
And I trust you know as a church family,。
God's grace and favor on you to be served。
and shepherded by him.。
Second, I wanna thank God for the fruit of this church。
far beyond this church, including in my church family.。
So countless married couples in Metro Washington, DC。
have experienced restoration from brokenness。
through re-engage.。
And countless individuals have experienced。
that transformation through regen.。
And that's the fruit of God's grace from this place.。
And shout out to my niece, Lydia,。
who is part of this church and serves on the team。
that makes all that possible.。
That leads to number three, I thank God for Kylan。
and the entire porch team for leading。
a young adult ministry that goes far beyond this place.。
I'm honored that he invited me to be a part。
of this conference this weekend.。
And I'm so encouraged by him personally。
and by his team's commitment to pray。
and to prepare a conference。
that is focused on pleading for God to move。
in a way that only he can get glory by his spirit.。
G. Campbell Morgan said, "We cannot organize revival,。
"but we can set our sails to catch the wind from heaven。
"when God chooses to blow upon his people once again."。
And this team has set the sails。
in a way that I'm praying God might blow in a fresh way。
this morning, which leads to the last thing I wanna say。
before we dive into the word.。
I wanna let you know where the next few minutes are headed。
because this sermon is definitely not the main event。
of this service today.。
I would say the main event is coming a few minutes from now。
when each one of you is gonna have an opportunity。
to respond to an invitation from God。
to seek him with all your heart across this gathering.。
And I am confident that every person。
within the sound of my voice needs to seek God today.。
Some of you, as T.A. was praying,。
need to seek God for salvation in your life.。
Some of you need to seek God。
through honest confession of sin.。
Some of you need to seek God for help or guidance or healing。
spiritually, physically, emotionally, relationally.。
I am 100% confident that everybody in this gathering。
desperately needs to cry out to God in some way today.。
But not all of you will choose to do so.。
So a few minutes from now,。
this room will divide into two groups,。
participants and observers.。
So one group will seek God passionately,。
and the other group will observe others passively.。
Those are the only two possible options.。
So some of you will choose to seek God passionately。
by calling out to him in praise, in thanksgiving,。
in confession, in repentance,。
crying out for his help in your life。
or on behalf of others' lives.。
Others of you will choose to watch,。
observe people around you seeking God.。
But you won't seek God yourself for any number of reasons.。
Some of you will be afraid of what others might think of you。
if you were to start crying out to God.。
Some of you will be afraid of what might happen。
in your life if you truly seek God.。
Some of you will say to yourself,。
maybe I'll seek God later, I'm just not ready right now.。
And I could go on and on, but for a variety of reasons,。
some of you will choose to observe。
rather than participate.。
And to be clear, please note what is not an option,。
seeking God casually,。
because that is impossible.。
When you truly encounter God,。
you either bow and worship or turn and run.。
So before we go any further,。
now that you know where we're headed,。
I wanna pray specifically for that moment。
that all of this word from God is about to lead us to.。
So will you bow your heads with me one more time?。
God, we have already prayed that you would speak to us.。
We need your help.。
We can't see, we can't hear spiritually。
without your help, Holy Spirit.。
So yes, please speak to us, please help us to hear.。
Open our ears, our eyes, and then we pray,。
help us to respond。
in passionate, wholehearted, honest, humble,。
seriously joyful, spirit-directed,。
Christ-centered seeking after you。
and encountering you today。
in ways that we will not soon forget.。
Only you can do that.。
So we pray that you would do it in Jesus' name, amen.。
Okay, so here we go, Isaiah 55.。
If you had asked me just a couple of days ago。
what text we would be in right now,。
this would not have been it.。
But as I prayed for you over the last couple of days,。
this text and one other kept coming to my mind。
and I couldn't decide between them,。
so I'm gonna preach both today at separate services.。
So if you wanna come back for round two。
in the next service, you're welcome,。
as we're gonna look at the curse。
of cultural Christianity in Mark 11.。
But here, if I was to give a title to this message。
from Isaiah 55, it would be。
an invitation to intimate communion.。
So I mentioned earlier that God is inviting。
every one of you today to seek him passionately。
and wholeheartedly and all I wanna do。
for the next few minutes is super simple.。
I just wanna show you how this invitation。
is coming straight from him to you。
right where you're sitting.。
Because I'm confident that if you will hear God。
speaking clearly like we have prayed,。
then you will respond passionately.。
You won't be able to help yourself.。
So if you're taking notes, I just wanna show you。
10 characteristics of God's invitation to you today。
and we're gonna fly through them.。
So the first one, if you wanna write it down, is personal.。
God's invitation to you is personal.。
So look with me at Isaiah 55 one。
and as I read, just count.。
So maybe circle or make a note。
of how many imperative verbs, commands,。
like personal invitations God gives。
in just the first three verses.。
So Isaiah 55 verse one and I'll underline them as we go.。
Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters.。
He who has no money, come, buy and eat.。
Come, buy wine and milk without money, without price.。
Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread,。
your labor for that which does not satisfy?。
Listen diligently to me and eat what is good。
and delight yourselves in rich food.。
Incline your ear and come to me.。
Hear that your soul may live。
and I will make with you an everlasting covenant,。
my steadfast, sure love for David.。
How many did you count?。
Did anybody count?。
Okay, I counted 14 personal invitations in three verses。
and then you just jump down to verse six with me.。
We'll come back to verses four and five in a minute.。
See all of these invitations summarized.。
Seek the Lord while he may be found.。
Call upon him while he is near.。
So to be clear, this is not a game of hide and seek。
where God is hiding and we have to find him.。
No, he is near to you.。
In other words, he is here.。
God is here.。
And this word seek is emphasizing the personal manner。
by which we approach God.。
So I've already said multiple times,。
seek God passionately and wholeheartedly.。
There are so many places we see this in the Bible.。
So let me show you two.。
One is from Jeremiah 29.。
Look at verses 12 through 14.。
Very similar language to Isaiah 55.。
God saying, you will call upon me and come and pray to me.。
I will hear you.。
You will seek me and find me when you seek me with what?。
All your heart.。
That's when I will be found by you,。
when you seek me with all your heart.。
The other place I'll show you is back here in the Psalms.。
Psalm 27, verse four.。
One thing I've asked of the Lord that will I seek after。
that I may dwell in the house of the Lord。
all the days of my life to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord。
and to inquire in his temple.。
To seek after God is to make gazing upon his beauty。
the one thing you want above everything.。
Is that true in your life?。
Is it evident in your life from the moment you get up。
to the moment you go to bed。
that the one thing that drives you more than anything。
is I just wanna see God and inquire in his temple.。
Talk with him.。
Look at verse eight in the same chapter.。
Psalm says to God, you have said, seek my face.。
My heart says to you, your face, Lord, do I seek.。
So do you see this personal invitation to you from God。
to seek his face?。
And this invitation is for everybody.。
So that's the second characteristic of God's invitation.。
It's universal, meaning it's for everybody without exception.。
You see that word from the very beginning of Isaiah 55,。
come, everybody, and then we skipped over verses four。
and five, let's go back and read them.。
Behold, I made him a witness to the peoples,。
a leader and commander for the peoples.。
Behold, you shall call a nation that you did not know。
and a nation that did not know you shall run to you。
because of the Lord your God and of the Holy One of Israel。
for he has glorified you.。
There is a ton here we don't have time to talk about today,。
but you see this emphasis on peoples twice。
and nations twice.。
The point is this invitation is not just for the people。
of God known as Israel in the Old Testament.。
This is for people from every nation,。
from every people group.。
So there are over 150 different nationalities。
represented in Dallas, Texas.。
There are many more people groups than that,。
and God is inviting all of them.。
Caucasian, African American, Hispanic, Asian,。
50,000 Telugu in Dallas, 30,000 Tamil,。
20,000 Gujaratis, everybody from every ethnicity.。
Come and be filled up, seeking God.。
Because, don't miss this, the Lord is seeking you.。
So that's the third characteristic of God's invitation.。
It is passionate.。
And I'm talking about passionate from his perspective.。
So you gotta see this.。
Turn back just a couple of, or one chapter,。
to Isaiah chapter 54.。
And again, there's so much in this section of Isaiah。
that we don't have time to talk about,。
but I want you to hear the way God describes。
his relationship with his people,。
with the people who know him and believe in him.。
Look at Isaiah 54, verse five, for your maker。
is your husband, the Lord of hosts is his name.。
The Holy One of Israel is your redeemer.。
The God of the whole earth he is called,。
for the Lord has called you.。
Did you hear that?。
I don't think you did, 'cause it was really quiet.。
Like your maker, your creator, the one who formed you。
and eight billion other people in the world,。
just described himself as a husband to his people.。
So as a husband seeks a wife, so God seeks you.。
Like I think about when I was a junior in high school。
and totally socially awkward and there's this girl。
who started visiting our church and I totally noticed her。
and all the other guys were going after her。
and I began to seek her in a way that when she would。
turn around from all those other guys,。
she would see me in all my social awkwardness.。
And it worked.。
And I got her to notice me and I think about the day。
when I joined my life with hers, when I became her husband,。
second greatest day of my life.。
Only behind the day when I realized that God。
passionately pursues and loves me like that.。
Like a husband loves and pursues a wife?。
Are you kidding?。
And here's why this is so important.。
And it's the reason why so many of you are not passionately,。
wholeheartedly seeking God as the one thing in your life.。
Why so many of you are settling for casually seeking God。
along with a million other things in this world.。
Why you're settling for cultural Christianity,。
which I'll talk about more in the next service.。
Here's the reason why.。
Because you don't see God passionately seeking you every day,。
you don't passionately seek God every day.。
And I wanna confess that I have been there.。
I've lived for years there.。
Not just as a Christian, as a pastor.。
So I was meeting one day with a counselor。
to work through some things in my own heart and life.。
Great brother in him, Jason, who loves the gospel.。
And he asked me a question.。
He said, David, when you come before God in prayer。
or worship, how do you see, how do you view。
God coming to you?。
And I thought for a while about my honest answer。
to that question and I realized while I know in my head。
that God loves me and I preach all the time。
that God loves us, if I'm honest, in my heart,。
I most often view God as disappointed in me.。
For my sin that I keep going back to,。
for my lack of faith, I could be doing so much more.。
And I shared that with Jason.。
He said, I thought so.。
He said, I think about nine out of every 10 Christians。
views God in a similar way to that.。
Satan is having a field day.。
Telling people and pastors, just like you and me,。
that God is disappointed with us, distant from us.。
Even just sitting back to see if we'll come to him。
like we should, if we'll get things right.。
And I am here today to show you God himself。
saying that is a lie.。
Look with me at Isaiah 62 verse five.。
For as a young man marries a young woman,。
so shall your sons marry you.。
As the bridegroom rejoices over the bride,。
so shall your God rejoice over you.。
John Owen, he's a Puritan theologian from the 1600s,。
wrote a book called "Communion with the Triune God."。
He talks about this verse and he says that for a married man。
there's no height of ecstasy like what he feels。
on the day he gets married.。
Then he says, that is how God feels。
about his people every day.。
Here's the quote.。
He says, God's heart is glad in us without sorrow。
and every day while we live is his wedding day.。
That sounds so flowery to me.。
But it comes from a 400 page theological tome。
on the Trinity.。
Do you believe this?。
Do you believe this word from God?。
See it, hear it coming straight from him.。
Your maker is your husband.。
The Lord of heavenly armies is his name.。
The Holy One who reigns supreme is holy, holy, holy.。
We've sung to him today incomparable in glory,。
in majesty, in splendor, the God of the whole earth.。
The God who reigns sovereign over eight billion people。
and 7.5 quintillion grains of sand on the land。
and two trillion galaxies of septillion stars in the sky.。
This God looks at you right where you are sitting。
like a husband looks at his bride。
and every day is like a wedding day for him。
when he sees you.。
That'll change what you see when you look in the mirror。
in the morning.。
And that will free you from looking to anyone else。
or anything else in this world to find your identity。
when you realize who you are in him.。
At which point you might say, but I have disappointed God.。
Like I've messed up in so many ways.。
He has so much reason to be disappointed in me。
to which God says, yeah, that's the point.。
Next characteristic of his invitation, it's costly.。
God says, I know all your sin.。
I know every sinful thought, desire, word,。
action, interaction.。
I know your sin more than you do.。
You think you know it, there's so much more.。
But did you notice what he said in the first verses we read?。
Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters。
and he who has no money, come buy and eat.。
Buy wine and milk without money and without price.。
How do you do that?。
You try to go to lunch today and buy your food。
with no money.。
It's clearly an invitation to buy something.。
The problem is you don't have any money to buy it with.。
So who's gonna pay for this?。
I'm glad you asked.。
Who in the world can pay the price to cover over sin。
before a holy God?。
'Cause the payment for sin is death.。
Eternal, everlasting death.。
Who can pay that price so that sinners can live。
in intimate communion with God?。
That's the right answer.。
And it came two chapters before this in Isaiah 53,。
where we read this promise about Jesus the Christ.。
Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows.。
We esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted,。
but he was pierced for our transgressions.。
He was crushed for our iniquities.。
Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace.。
And with his wounds, we are healed.。
All we like sheep have gone astray.。
We've turned everyone to his own way.。
And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all.。
Ladies and gentlemen,。
I give you the greatest news in all the world.。
Jesus, God in the flesh has come to us to live the life.。
We could not live a life of no sin.。
And then even though he had no sin for which to die,。
he chose to bear our griefs and carry our sorrows,。
to be pierced for our transgressions。
and crushed for our iniquities,。
to take the chastisement due us upon himself.。
We've all turned through our own ways。
and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all.。
He has paid the price of death for sinners everywhere.。
And then you keep going, Isaiah 53, 10,。
when his soul makes an offering for guilt,。
he shall see his offspring.。
He shall prolong his days.。
The will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand.。
How is that possible for someone who dies。
to see his offspring and have prolonged days?。
Verse 11, out of the anguish of his soul,。
he shall see and be satisfied.。
By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant,。
make many to be accounted righteous.。
He shall bear their iniquities.。
Whoa, this is what makes it the greatest news in the world。
because the savior who died for sin is not dead anymore.。
He is alive and for all who trust in him,。
all their sin is covered。
and they are accounted righteous before God。
and welcomed into intimate relationship with God.。
Not because of anything we do,。
but only because of what he has done for us.。
So I'll go back, I had that picture of my wife,。
so I'm gonna flip the analogy a little bit,。
but when we got married, she's a year older than me,。
and so she had graduated college,。
gotten a job as a teacher,。
and I was still in college,。
which meant for that year before we got married,。
she had cash flow and I had no cash flow.。
She ate normal food, I ate ramen noodles, most meals.。
So that was the year before we got married。
and then we stood in front of a church building one day,。
we united our lives together,。
and on that day, I received so many amazing things,。
most importantly, being a beautiful, Jesus-loving wife.。
But do you know what else I received on that day?。
Cash flow.。
It was great.。
Standing there, I had nothing in my bank account.。
I said two words, "I do."。
She said the same.。
At that moment, everything that belonged to her。
became mine.。
I didn't have to go teach her class,。
I didn't have to go wipe their snotty noses,。
I didn't have to do anything.。
Simply by the fact that my life was united with hers,。
everything that belonged to her now belonged to me.。
This is the miracle of salvation.。
You unite your life with Jesus.。
You don't have to do a thing.。
Simply by the fact that your life is united with his,。
everything that belongs to him becomes yours.。
Righteousness, you're counted righteous.。
Holiness, wisdom, redemption, strength,。
peace, hope, joy, meaning, life,。
it goes on and on and on just because you're in Jesus。
and he's in you.。
Bring out the tubs.。
So, all that leads to the next true characteristic。
of God's invitation.。
It is fulfilling and it's freeing.。
So fulfilling and freeing, two.。
Get the imagery.。
It's water for the thirsty.。
It's food for the hungry.。
It's all the wine and milk you could want.。
Delight yourself in rich food,。
which all begs the question, what's the water?。
What's the wine?。
What's the milk?。
What's this rich food?。
Verse three, incline your ear and come to me.。
He's it.。
God is the only one who can ultimately fulfill。
all the desires of your soul.。
So, brothers and sisters in Christ,。
God fulfills the deepest desires of your soul,。
which means you are free to stop living。
for the idols of this world.。
Stop gathering for worship on Sunday,。
then turning the rest of the week。
to bow at the idolatry of work and achievement。
and approval and appearance and body image。
and control and comfort and money and possessions。
and sex and pornography and success and sports.。
Check your hearts if 11 college students。
running around on a field on a Saturday。
with a pigskin in their hands captures your attention。
and ignites your affections more than God.。
You have the wrong God.。
Whatever good gift in this world。
that you are tempted to treat as God,。
hear his voice.。
Why would you spend your money for that which isn't bread。
and your labor for that which does not satisfy,。
does not compare to the God who made you?。
Lift your eyes.。
C.S. Lewis said, "We're half-hearted creatures。
"fooling about with drink and sex and ambition。
"when infinite joy has been offered us,。
"like ignorant children who go on making mud pies。
"in the slum because we cannot imagine。
"what is meant by the offer of a holiday at the sea."。
He says, "We are far too easily pleased."。
If this world, it's what's satisfying you,。
it's not because your desires are too strong,。
it's because your desires are too weak.。
It takes so little to satisfy you。
when you've been offered infinite joy,。
infinite hope, infinite peace,。
infinite strength, and infinite life.。
Fulfilling and freeing.。
So how do you leave behind these idols?。
That's the next characteristic of God's invitation.。
It's cleansing.。
Verse seven, "So let the wicked forsake his way.。
"Let the unrighteous man forsake his thoughts.。
"Let him return to the Lord."。
Who needs to return to the Lord as your one thing today?。
Who needs to turn away from unrighteous thoughts?。
Who needs to confess wicked ways,。
wicked words, wicked motives, wicked desires?。
If we are not careful, we can come into this gathering,。
go through motions, sing some songs, hear a sermon,。
walk out holding onto the same sin we came in here with.。
Don't do it.。
Seek the Lord in confession of sin.。
That verse seven, "So that he may have compassion on him.。
"To our God, for he will abundantly pardon."。
Next characteristic of God's invitation,。
it is compassionate.。
There is so much compassion in God.。
He doesn't just pardon.。
He abundantly pardons all our sins.。
This is the mercy that's pursuing you。
right now in this moment,。
which is why verse six says,。
"Seek the Lord while he may be found.。
"Call upon him while he is near."。
So next characteristic, God's invitation is urgent.。
It's urgent.。
Don't miss what this verse is saying.。
In the second service,。
we're gonna take this to a whole other level,。
but for now, in this moment, just let it soak in.。
God is near to sinners.。
He's near to us right now,。
and he will be found by sinners who seek him.。
Yet the implication is clear,。
that there's coming a day when he will not be found,。
and he will not be near.。
And the message of the Bible is crystal clear on this.。
All who confess their sin and trust in Jesus。
as Savior and Lord of their lives。
will have eternal life with God,。
and all who continue in sin with no trust in Jesus。
as Savior and Lord of their lives。
will experience eternal judgment from God,。
which Jesus himself describes as a hell full of agonizing。
fire that will never, ever end.。
At which point people ask, is that literal?。
I mean, does Jesus mean hell is literally a place of fire,。
or is that just symbolic language?。
To which I respond,。
what's the comfort if it's symbolic?。
Like a point of a symbol is to express in words。
that which can't be expressed in words.。
If fiery hell is a symbol,。
what's it a symbol for, a winter retreat?。
It's a symbol for something worse。
than could be put in words.。
This is Jesus speaking, warning us.。
God is saying to a room full of people today。
who are not guaranteed another breath in this world,。
enjoy my love right now.。
I'm here, I'm near to you.。
Don't wait 'til tomorrow.。
You're not guaranteed tomorrow.。
I'm near to you now.。
And for Christians who are holding onto, hiding sin,。
trying to gloss over sin, who do you think you're fooling?。
You're fooling yourself, and you're living as a slave。
when you've been called to live as a son of God,。
a daughter of God in the freedom he gives.。
Why continue in slavery another moment?。
Be free in Christ.。
He is near to sinners, and he is near to sufferers.。
I am confident that in a room this size,。
many of you are hurting right now.。
Many of you are tired, you're discouraged,。
you're worried, you're anxious,。
you're afraid, brokenhearted.。
And there is an urgency in this invitation。
to sinners as well as sufferers.。
God is saying right now, I am near to you.。
Do not spend another moment trying to carry this。
on your own.。
Cast your cares on me.。
I will care for you.。
I will care, all come to me, all who are weary。
and heavy laden, and I will give you rest now.。
Even to go back to the imagery of the husband,。
some of you have been hurt by people close to you。
in such a way that you're hesitant to trust in anyone.。
I simply want you to hear God saying to all of you。
who are in Christ, God's saying,。
I will always, always, always be faithful to you.。
And I will never, ever, ever fail you.。
Which leads to the last characteristic。
of this invitation from God。
that's going to lead us into a time to respond.。
It is humbling.。
It's humbling.。
Meaning there's no way to respond to this invitation。
with pride in our hearts.。
Psalm 95 gives us instructions for how to respond。
to this invitation using same language。
as Isaiah 54 and five.。
O come, let us worship and bow down.。
Let us kneel before the Lord, our maker,。
for he is our God.。
We are the people of his pasture and the sheep of his hand.。
Bowing down, a picture of humility before the Lord.。
And this is probably the biggest barrier。
to your responding to this invitation today, your pride.。
I'll talk about this more in the second service as well,。
but why is it so rare in our worship gatherings。
in the church today for us not all。
to be in this posture right here?。
Why would that be?。
Whoa, that was an unusual Sunday.。
Because all throughout this book,。
when people come before this God,。
it's not just here, it's here.。
So what does it say about us。
that we have grown used to coming into gatherings。
before worship for a holy God and never being right here?。
When the Bible clearly invites us to come here.。
Who in this room doesn't need to be there?。
In sin, in suffering, in desperation before God.。
So with this invitation, it's time for the main event.。
As the team joins me out here,。
we're gonna respond to God speaking.。
And I just wanna give you freedom。
to seek God in any number of ways.。
I'm just gonna put these on the screen。
just to get your mind going, but Holy Spirit lead.。
Some of you need to seek God for salvation.。
Some of you need to, I would just ask,。
have you entered into a love relationship,。
intimate communion with God in your life?。
I'm not asking if you've prayed a prayer,。
if you've gone to church or called yourself a Christian.。
I'm asking, do you know God。
in passionate relationship with Him?。
If the answer to that question is,。
no, I've never known God that way,。
or I did at one point, that's a long time ago,。
a lot's happened since then, return to the Lord today.。
He's seeking you right now.。
Seek Him for salvation through confession of sin.。
What sin do you need to confess today?。
Let's examine our hearts and minds.。
Repent of any and all sin.。
Let's not walk out of here holding on to the sin。
we came in here with that He died to free us from.。
Let's seek God through cries for help,。
for yourself, for others.。
How do you, we need God to help us for healing,。
for guidance, for wisdom, for strength, for peace.。
In your life, on others' behalf,。
what a privilege to pray for others.。
Or maybe just to seek God in praise and thanksgiving,。
just spending time praising God for who He is,。
thanking Him for specific things He has done, is doing,。
in your life, around your life, in the world.。
And you might do these things alone,。
or with somebody else, or with a small group.。
So in the next few minutes, just pray however God leads.。
Could be on your own, could be turning to somebody,。
hey, can we pray together?。
Could be coming around somebody, praying for them,。
getting with a few people to pray for them.。
Could be sitting, standing, kneeling, lying prostrate,。
lifting hands, all of these biblical postures.。
You can do that at your seat, in front here, in the aisles,。
somewhere else, wherever.。
So these brothers and sisters are gonna lead us in song,。
but I wanna invite you to pray, cry out to God。
in any of these ways, and then you join in singing。
when it's appropriate.。
But whatever you do, do not be afraid of what others think.。
Unite our hearts to fear you alone, God.。
We're in the presence of God, respond to God.。
However the Holy Spirit of God leads you,。
seek the Lord while He may be found.。
Call upon Him while He is near, right now.。
God, we praise you that you're near to us right now.。
Jesus, we praise you that you are closer to us。
than we can even fathom.。
You're a Holy Spirit in us, around us, among us.。
So lead us, we pray.。
Direct us to seek you and call upon you。
with all of our hearts.。
Just pray, have your way during this time.。
In Jesus' name.。
