(upbeat music)。
- All right, all right, welcome to the porch.。
My name is Josiah and we are jumping into week three。
of Ephesians, introducing the new you.。
But before we get there, help me welcome our friends。
across the nation, our Porch Live locations,。
Porch Live Tulsa, Oklahoma, Boise, Idaho,。
Scottsdale, Arizona, and not but least,。
or was that right?。
Yeah, yeah, not but least, our friends right down the road,。
Fort Worth, Texas, come on, the Porch Live.。
Let's go.。
(audience applauding)。
Love it.。
Well, hey, any iPhone users in the room tonight?。
(audience cheering)。
Okay, all right, me too.。
Any Android?。
(audience cheering)。
You can be dismissed.。
I'm playing, I'm playing.。
Is that one Android user on the group text。
that you can't name the texting thread, you know, that one?。
You know, you got to use group me instead?。
Oh man, Android people, got to love them.。
Hey, 15 years ago, about two and a half months ago,。
15 years ago, so two, excuse me, two months ago,。
we celebrated 15 years of this thing right here,。
the iPhone.。
The iPhone came out.。
I know you probably didn't know that, that's okay.。
A man named Steve Jobs had a vision, yeah, look at it,。
had a vision that he would create a phone。
that would change everything,。
almost everything about our life.。
Like, it was crazy, like, I got to thinking,。
man, I was 24 years old, I know I just dated myself there.。
I was 24 years old in 2007 when the iPhone came out.。
And I just got to thinking, man,。
he used this one phone that began to change our culture.。
It began to change the way we communicate,。
the way we interact, and ultimately,。
he created this phone to change the world.。
Let me give you a few.。
It was the first modern touchscreen smartphone.。
It allowed us to basically carry a computer around。
that fit in the size of our hand.。
That's what he created,。
the first modern touchscreen smartphone.。
It put internet in our pockets,。
whether you have, you know, wifi or not,。
like, you have the internet at your disposal.。
We're connected all the time.。
Everything is now instant gratification.。
We now expect everything to be on demand.。
We take for granted that we have unlimited music。
and TV shows and movies and books on our phone.。
It turned all of us into wannabe photographers。
and influencers, right, man?。
It gave us platforms.。
Some of you really are influencers, praise God.。
Hopefully you're influencing the right thing.。
It transformed photography from a hobby to,。
man, there's not a day that goes by。
that you and I probably don't take a picture of something.。
I mean, we sit across the table with friends。
and we have fajitas and we wouldn't,。
it would never cross our mind 15 years ago。
to take a picture and share that with the world.。
We would just talk to each other, right?。
But we don't really do that anymore.。
The iPhone gave way to apps.。
Now there is more than two million apps in the App Store.。
It shaped modern social media.。
For a great part of my life,。
I would have to log on MySpace, anybody?。
Ooh, oh, a few, okay, older generation,。
let's go, millennials.。
Facebook, we'd have to log on from our computer.。
Now we just get to log on to social media from our phone.。
Yeah, come on.。
You can FaceTime with anyone around the world.。
There's navigation on your phone now.。
Like, this'll blow your mind.。
There was a thing called Maps.。
Like, it was a paper deal that you had。
that you would fold up or unfold,。
but you would put it in your glove box.。
Like, some of you are like, what?。
That's just crazy.。
I don't, really?。
Yeah.。
On top of that, like, it was 500 bucks when it came out.。
Like, that was unheard of.。
Like, I said, no, man, this isn't gonna get any traction.。
There's no way.。
Like, you can get the Razr or the BlackBerry,。
just sign a contract and it's almost free.。
And now we just drop one grand.。
You know, we just drop $1,000 on, you know, getting the phone.。
I start there tonight because in the same way,。
the iPhone and this one man, Steve Jobs,。
changed the world.。
It changed how we interact with each other.。
It changed how we spend our time.。
Like, the average person spends eight hours a day。
on their phone, which I'm not promoting, right?。
I'm just saying it changed everything.。
The way we talk.。
And tonight, like, we're gonna look at a passage。
in scripture, I believe it's one of the most powerful。
passages in all of the Bible.。
In Ephesians chapter two, tonight, that I believe。
has the power to change everything in our life.。
And for some of you, it has.。
Like, it's changed the way you live.。
It's changed the way you talk.。
It's changed the way you date.。
It's changed the way you spend money.。
It changes the way you work.。
Like, it's changed the way you even use your time.。
In this passage, it paints the clearest depiction。
of the gospel, who is Jesus and what did he come to do.。
The gospel has the potential to change everything about us.。
And for some of us tonight, like, we don't believe this.。
Like, we don't believe this message。
and that's why some of us are gonna spend eternity。
apart from Jesus, separated from him forever and ever.。
In a place called hell.。
And that's sobering for some of us.。
But if you believe this, then it changes everything。
about your life.。
Ephesians two, starting in verse one.。
If you have your Bibles, you can turn them。
to Ephesians chapter two.。
It'll be up on the screen if you don't.。
We're gonna see who we were before Christ,。
what Christ has done and who we are now.。
Ephesians two.。
And you were dead in your trespasses and sins。
in which you once walked.。
Following the course of the world,。
following the prince of the power of the air,。
the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience.。
Among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh,。
carrying out the desires of the body and the mind.。
And we're by nature children of wrath。
like the rest of mankind.。
Point number one.。
Point number one, this is who we were.。
Who we were.。
We were dead, the Bible says.。
Not physical, but spiritual.。
Like we're separated from God.。
Why?。
Because of sin.。
Like dead in our trespasses and sins means。
that sin is not just an action,。
but it's a condition of our heart.。
Like sin isn't just something we do.。
Sin is something we are.。
And that's hard for some of us because we like。
just believing that this is just something we do.。
Because if it's just something that we do,。
then we can just pull our bootstraps up。
and white knuckle this thing and change our behavior。
and modify it and go to the self-help section。
at Barnes and Noble and just get some self-help books。
to help us build a better you.。
But we see that we're not sinners because we sin,。
we sin because we are sinners.。
It's in our nature, this text is saying.。
Dead in our trespasses and sins.。
Think about it like this one.。
This way, the iPhone, for example,。
or any phone, you plug it in.。
I told you I had an iPhone, come on.。
You plug it in and it's charged up.。
You do that the night before like I do。
and then it's charged up for the day,。
but it only lives for so long and then what happens?。
It dies.。
It dies and this is like you and I,。
we're not independent beings,。
we're dependent beings on the God of creation,。
the one who's pumping breath into your lungs,。
is giving you a heart that beats and eyes that see.。
We're not independent from him,。
we are dependent on him.。
And when we sin against him,。
it's as if we're unplugging from the source of life。
and the results are we're still alive,。
but we're in this cycle of death now。
and eventually we're gonna be disconnected。
from the source of life completely.。
This is how the Bible explains our deadness.。
This is how the Bible explains our life.。
We can be living physically but dead spiritually.。
And in the process of dying physically,。
you stand before God and then you experience eternal death。
which is forever punishment away from God,。
separated from the grace of God。
instead of being connected to the grace of God.。
And listen, I warn you because I love you.。
Like this isn't a popular message of our day,。
but maybe God brought you into this place tonight。
to hear this message that could change everything。
about your life.。
The text explains why we're dead.。
It says we're dead because we're following the world.。
It goes on, it says we're following the course。
of this world and think of the world。
or think of culture as like this fast moving river.。
It's this strong current and has this deep undertow.。
And anything that goes into the river。
just gets swept downstream.。
The Bible's saying that this is the culture,。
this is the world that when you jump in。
and you begin to follow the world,。
then it's just gonna take you down that path。
that the world goes down.。
That, you know, hey, that's just how they think.。
Or that's just what they do.。
That's just, you know, how everyone acts。
and you just start seeing it as normal.。
And it's because what everyone else is doing。
and you just date like everyone else dates,。
you spend like everyone else spends.。
And in fact, the Bible says that there's a way。
that seems right to man, but there's not.。
It seems right to man, but that way ends in death.。
And so tonight we gotta get some altitude,。
we gotta get some perspective and understand。
that we're all born in that river。
and we're all headed downstream.。
And for some of us, like we know what this feels like.。
For some of us that we've committed our life to Christ,。
our life is marked by a difficult swim。
against that strong current of the world and culture.。
Like some of you know what I'm talking about.。
Like it's easier for you to sleep around。
than it is to put your sexual desires in check。
and protect your purity for your future husband。
or your wife.。
Like it's easier for you to spend all your money。
on yourself instead of spending it on others。
and furthering God's kingdom.。
Like it's easier for you to numb the pain of singleness。
by running to a two-dimensional image on your phone。
just to get a quick release rather than,。
man, get up from that place and pursue that woman.。
But you think, man, but I got rejected the last time。
or the last four times I went out on dates,。
it didn't work out.。
But that's not an excuse to keep pursuing。
a woman and being God's man.。
For some of you, the pain of hurt, the pain of suffering,。
it's easier for you just to numb it with the bottle,。
just run to alcohol instead of extending forgiveness。
for that person who hurts you.。
It's easier for you just to have a corrupt sexuality。
or correct morality than it is to repent。
and seek the Lord and grow by the grace of God.。
It's easier for you to build a platform on social media。
than to build God's kingdom.。
This is why the Bible says we're dead,。
because we're following the course of the world.。
It doesn't just say we're following the course of the world。
but it says we're following Satan,。
following the prince of the power of the air,。
the spirit that is now at work and the sons of disobedience.。
Not only are there God's people but there's Satan's people.。
Not only are there people that are submitted。
to the work of the Holy Spirit。
but there's also people that are submitted。
to Satan and his demons.。
And so the question begs is,。
hey, how do you know if you're submitted to Satan?。
Well, just let me tell you this for a second.。
The motto of Satan is to worship Satan.。
It's not to worship Satan, it's to worship yourself.。
Self-worship.。
How do you know if you're following him?。
You just do you.。
You think about you.。
You rise up thinking about you.。
You go to bed thinking about you.。
You live for you and that's all Satan。
is trying to get you to do.。
And listen, the Bible says that he disguises himself。
as an angel of light.。
And just because someone looks good on the outside。
and they have health and they have the materialism。
and they have the job and they have the money,。
that's not always blessings from God.。
Because Satan will lure you and I into thinking that,。
hey, as long as we get those things,。
I must be blessed, bro.。
And it's like, whoa, he doesn't care。
as long as he gets that one thing, your soul.。
As long as he can distract you。
from the creator of the universe.。
Listen, this was my story.。
I found myself thinking that I had everything。
by the world's standards.。
By the world's standards, I would say I had it.。
I had the girl and I had the sport.。
I was playing baseball in college。
and I had the affirmation and the accolades and the awards.。
And man, that was the life of the party.。
And listen, I ran to that drug。
just to get that temporal high.。
I had the car.。
I had the materialistic possessions.。
I had some money.。
And by the end of my junior year,。
I just began asking myself the question, is that it?。
And I remember grabbing a Bible that was dusty。
up in my bookshelf in my apartment.。
I was like, man, there's gotta be something more.。
There's gotta be more that meets the eye.。
If I got everything that the world calls success,。
I checked that box and I'm still feeling empty。
and unsatisfied, then what else is there?。
And I remember opening to 1 John chapter three.。
And it says in 1 John three, I believe verse four,。
it says that when you live in continuous sin,。
it shows that you belong to the devil。
who's been sinning since the beginning.。
But the son of God, Jesus, came to destroy。
the works of the devil.。
And those who have been born into God's family。
do not make a practice of sinning because God is in them.。
I realized that I was a child of the devil.。
Like that seems extreme, right?。
But the Bible says that when you make a practice of sinning,。
you keep doing the same thing over and over。
and not having any convictions to turn from that sin,。
then you are a child of the devil.。
And that night, man, my mouth was stopped。
of all justification.。
I was following the prince of the power of the air。
and everything on the outside, man, it looked good.。
I had it.。
I thought I reached success only to find myself。
in a place of depression, full of anxiety.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
I was a child of the devil.。
It feels good.。
Bible says, it goes on, it says,。
"By nature, we're children of wrath。
like the rest of mankind."。
What that means is that we were born apart from God。
with a sinful nature.。
By the time we came out of our mama's womb,。
by nature, we're sinners.。
Like, you gotta understand this.。
When I was reading this, I'm like,。
this is just natural.。
This is just what we gravitate to, right?。
Like, this is, no one has to teach me how to sin.。
Like, I'm varsity.。
Like, that's just my life, right?。
Sin isn't just something we do.。
Sin is something we are.。
Psalm 51.5 backs up what I'm saying here.。
It says this, "Surely I was sinful at birth,。
sinful from the time my mother conceived me."。
And this became also real when my wife and I,。
Kathy, started to have kids about six years ago.。
And we birthed these kids, we, she did, praise God.。
(laughing)。
Bless you.。
If you're listening to this right now, babe, I love you.。
Thank you.。
But we began to start, you know, just being parents.。
And it was cute, man.。
Like, they come out of the room and they start crying,。
but then they put them on their chest.。
And man, this is one of the most amazing experiences。
of my life.。
But then they begin to grow up and become toddlers.。
And it's like you're raising a,。
you're raising a small terrorist.。
(laughing)。
I mean, that's kind of what it is, right?。
I mean, they scratch and they bite。
and they throw temper tantrums in the grocery store.。
And they're just, I mean,。
and I didn't have to teach them that.。
It's just, that's just what came natural, right?。
I mean, this was the other day.。
I mean, I'm trying, we're trying to put our,。
our four-year-old daughter down to sleep.。
And here's a picture.。
And she's just mean mugging us.。
This is Isabella and her sister in the back, man,。
she's doing, she's doing what all older brothers。
and sisters do, they're rule followers.。
So she's sleeping.。
And she's just looking at us like, now what?。
What are you going to say?。
You're going to make me go to sleep?。
It's like, what do we do with that?。
I guess just like, you know, put her outside and, you know,。
tell her to do some laps in the backyard.。
But she's just looking at us right there.。
And she's just like, man, what, what are you going to do?。
And I didn't have to teach her that.。
She's like, no, I'm not taking a nap.。
It's like, okay, I guess you're not taking a nap,。
but I'm going to give you a consequence for that.。
And so that's the crazy thing.。
Like it's been so good being a parent。
because you see this sinful nature。
from the time they were born.。
And listen, we can laugh at her rebellion.。
And it's kind of cute when you're five,。
but it's destructive when you're 25.。
And what she needs is a new nature.。
And the same is true for you and I.。
We were born with a sinful nature。
that has no cure apart from Christ.。
Let me illustrate it this way.。
(pages flipping)。
This is you, this is you and I, right?。
And the Bible says that God created everything to be perfect。
but he wanted to give you and I a choice.。
He wanted to give man, woman a choice.。
So he gave them one rule and you know what happened。
in the garden, they ate the apple。
and sin entered the world that sent creation into chaos.。
And so everything is broken because of sin.。
There's nothing that's just perfect.。
There's nothing holy, there's nothing right.。
Sin is a result of, suffering is a result of all sin,。
I should say.。
And so we feel it throughout our week,。
sometimes in small ways and sometimes in big ways.。
Whether it's cancer or someone mismanaging information。
about us and gossiping, like we feel the weight of sin.。
And so the Bible says that all have sinned。
and fallen short of the glory of God.。
And it's just, it's tainted our life.。
Like we're no longer perfect.。
Like we've fallen short of God's standard.。
His standard is perfection.。
The Bible says in Romans 6, 23,。
"For the wages of sin is death."。
It's brought death and destruction upon our life.。
And no matter what you try to do to make that right,。
the Bible says you just make a bigger mess。
and sin just continues to rule you more and more.。
And the Bible says in Romans 3, 11,。
"That there is none righteous, no not one."。
Like we've fallen so far away from God's standard,。
which is perfection.。
And the Bible says if we die in our sin,。
we forfeit the grace of God.。
And the only thing left for us is His wrath.。
Did you see that?。
Like earlier in the text, it says we're children of wrath.。
And listen, we don't like talking about wrath。
and we don't like talking about hell,。
but this book, Jesus talks about hell twice as much。
as he talks about heaven in Matthew, Mark, Luke and John.。
And I meet with young adults every single week。
and I just say, "Hey, if God allowed sin into heaven,。
"what would it look like?"。
And they're like, "Man, it would look broken,。
"like my life and the world would no longer,。
"or heaven would no longer be a perfect place."。
I said, "You're right."。
So therefore God must assess a penalty for sin.。
And that penalty is hell.。
Total separation from God, your creator.。
And I just say, "Hey, but God never intended。
"for it to be that way, so He came up with another plan."。
And this is where we see the good news in Ephesians 2.。
Verse four, look at what it says.。
"But God being rich in mercy."。
Like that's a great big but right there.。
Like that is huge.。
That's what I'm talking about right now,。
your sinful nature, right?。
Your guess, your mind is all up in the gutter.。
(congregation laughing)。
But thank the Lord for that, that one phrase,。
"But God being rich in mercy。
"because of the great love with which He loved us,。
"even when we were dead in our trespasses."。
What did He do?。
"He made us alive together with Christ.。
"By grace you have been saved.。
"And He raised us up with Him and seated us with Him。
"in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus."。
That's our standing, that's where we're headed。
for those of us in Christ, so that in the coming ages。
He might show the immeasurable riches of His grace。
and kindness towards us in Christ Jesus.。
The coming ages, when He comes back,。
I've read the rest of the book.。
Revelation, He's coming back.。
This time, not as a suffering servant hanging on a cross,。
but as a mighty warrior coming for His church,。
for the believer.。
And it goes on and says, "For by grace you have been saved。
"through faith, and this is not your own doing.。
"It is a gift of God, not a result of works,。
"so that no one may boast."。
Point number two, what Christ has done.。
What Christ has done, but God,。
this one phrase, being rich in mercy,。
it's this idea of abundance, it's this idea of overflow.。
It never runs out, like some of us,。
man, we're worried about cost of inflation rising, right?。
Like the cost of food or the cost of gas。
or the cost of rent, like, talked to a bunch of young adults。
like, man, my rent is just skyrocketing,。
and I don't know if my paycheck is gonna be suffice。
to pay for all these things.。
But God's saying, hey, not in my economy.。
My grace is rich in mercy, and it never runs out.。
His grace never runs out.。
There will always be enough for those of us。
that bend the knee and surrender our life to Him.。
Why?。
Because of the great love in which He loved us.。
He proved this by dying on the cross for your sin and mine.。
Grace, it's this idea that you can't earn it.。
There's nothing you can do.。
We don't deserve it, but that's the whole point of grace.。
If you could deserve it, then it would not be grace.。
There's no one in this room tonight。
that has done something so terrible that grace won't cover.。
Like, some of you are like, no, no, not me,。
just you don't know what I've done.。
My sin is just too great for God.。
Like, my life is stained.。
That past abortion, you know, that embezzling money.。
I mean, you don't know what's happened to me.。
Like, maybe even murders are part of your story.。
Like, nothing is too great for God.。
That adultery, nothing is too great for God.。
The thing that you think that you're gonna take to the grave,。
nothing is too great for God.。
Oh, no, no, not me, just you don't understand my story.。
No, no, no, I might not understand your story,。
but you don't understand the grace and the mercy of God.。
It's for you, all you need is need to come to God.。
The prereq, the prequalification to come to God。
is not you trying to pull your bootstraps up。
and white knuckle it and modify your behavior。
and do some good works to make yourself right.。
No, it's to bend the knee.。
Like, that's the problem for some of us, man.。
Like, we don't understand,。
we don't fathom the grace that's being offered to us.。
Like, some of us think, man, our works,。
like, good works right here, right here.。
The good works that I do,。
this is gonna be enough to make me right with God.。
I'm gonna, you know, maybe volunteer。
at the animal rescue shelter.。
I'm gonna go to church every Sunday.。
Oh, I'm gonna be at the porch, the porch.。
That's what I'm gonna do.。
I'm gonna climb to the porch every Tuesday night.。
I'm gonna carry my Bible.。
I'm gonna get, I'm gonna know some memory verses.。
I'm gonna memorize scripture.。
Hey, I'm gonna get the cross tattoo, man.。
I'm gonna look good on the outside.。
Some of you are like, man, I'm gonna go a step further.。
I'm gonna be a member of this.。
That's what I'm gonna do.。
I'm gonna be a member of Watermark Community Church.。
I'm gonna get in community group.。
Hey, I might even get baptized.。
That sounds like the next thing for me to do.。
On this hamster wheel of just performance, good works.。
And all you do is make a bigger mess.。
Because it's your work that you're submitting to,。
not his work.。
And that's not the point of the gospel.。
The point of the gospel is God, I can't, but you can.。
Like I talk to young adults and I say,。
hey, if God should let you into heaven,。
what would you say?。
And a lot of times it starts with because I,。
and I'm like, you missed it.。
If you could get to heaven because of you,。
what was the point of Jesus dying on the cross?。
There's nothing we can do.。
That's the whole point of grace.。
Well, that's scandalous, Josiah.。
What, I can't do anything?。
You can't do anything.。
Because if you could do something,。
then you and I would surely boast about it.。
And when we boast about it, then who gets the credit?。
We do.。
Not him, not what he did for you on the cross.。
And so the only thing that we can do is point to him,。
point to Christ.。
Like some of us, like we can't fathom this grace。
because when you're a kid, you would mess up。
and maybe you got caught by your parents。
or you would go confess something to them。
and you would just be met with like just this,。
just this anger and they would shun you.。
Maybe you confessed that you lied。
or you got found out at that party that you threw。
when your parents went out of town。
and the house was cleaner than it was before they left.。
They're like, something ain't right.。
That was my story.。
But, but, but, but, but that's what we would do, right?。
And then they found out and they just shunned it。
and they didn't create a space and a place。
for you to be real and authentic.。
So you went into hiding.。
Or maybe you confessed that you were gay。
and they just said, I'm done ostracizing.。
And you can't fathom grace because that was your experience.。
And so you view God in the same way。
that you view your parents.。
As a dad of three kids, I wanna create a safe place。
for them to be able to confess。
or for them to be able to share。
whatever they're going through.。
So I'll put my little girls down to bed,。
you know, every night except Tuesday。
and I'll just say, hey, how's your heart?。
What was the high of your day?。
What was the low of your day?。
What, how are you doing?。
Hey, you know, daddy, you can tell daddy anything you want。
and I promise you, I'm still gonna love you。
not because you did or didn't do what daddy wanted.。
And so I'll ask them this question before we go to bed,。
just say, hey, what's the gospel?。
Like, what is it?。
Camille, Isabella, what is the gospel?。
And I'll begin to reiterate it to them。
and we were out and they were in their princess dresses。
the other night when they were riding scooters。
and I just sat them down, I just said,。
hey, what is the gospel?。
And I filmed it, here's what they said.。
What is the gospel?。
- The gospel is the good news of Jesus Christ.。
That he died on the cross for our sins。
and rose again on the third day。
to the feet of sin and death.。
- That's right, this is the gospel, my friends.。
The gospel is the good news of Jesus Christ。
that he died on the cross for our sins。
and rose again on the third day.。
And listen, like it's cute when they can regurgitate it。
at four and almost six years old.。
And I love that and my wife and I were praying。
that, hey, that would become a reality,。
the truths that we're giving to them,。
the truths that we're sharing to them。
would begin to be a heart belief,。
that it wouldn't just be this intellectual belief。
and they wouldn't follow Jesus。
because mommy and daddy does it.。
And that's our heart, that's our prayer。
every single day for our kids.。
And so for some of us, man, like we see that。
and it is cute and I love it。
and I go back to that video all the time.。
And it's cute at four and six to regurgitate that,。
but when you're 25, 35 years old。
and you know how to answer that question,。
but then you look back at your life。
and like nothing's changed.。
It's not as cute.。
Listen, I don't say that to shame you.。
I don't say that to guilt you.。
I say that to challenge you。
to do an inventory tonight and say,。
what am I really doing with Jesus?。
Like, am I allowing him to change everything about my life。
or am I hanging on to the parts that I don't disagree with?。
Like when you and the Bible disagree, who wins?。
Like I have been going through the scriptures。
and I'm like, oh, that one's hard.。
Slow to speak, quick to listen。
for the anger of a man does not produce the right,。
ooh, that hurts.。
And God begins to convict me of my anger。
and my short tempered and my tone with my kids and my wife.。
Our salvation is an act of God's love.。
Jesus did what you and I can.。
Like Jesus lived the life that you couldn't live.。
He was perfect in thought, word and action.。
And all of our sin was poured out on him at the cross.。
And the Bible says that he soaked up。
the sin of the world on the cross.。
And there's nothing else that can pay for your sin。
and my sin.。
I've studied all the other religions.。
There's not another religion that teaches。
that there's a God who left the comforts of heaven。
and came to earth to bear a cross.。
And there's nothing you and I can do。
to be made right with God.。
It's everything that he's done.。
Like we don't climb this ladder to get to heaven。
and reach in spiritual enlightenment.。
We submit to God, the only one。
that died on the cross for our sin.。
And so he soaked up every last ounce of our sin.。
And the Bible says that while we were yet sinners,。
Romans 5, 8, Christ died for us.。
The Bible says that if we would confess with our mouth。
that Jesus is Lord and believe in our heart。
that God raised him from the dead, we would be saved.。
That when we put our faith and trust in Christ,。
he begins to soak up the sin in our life.。
Like he begins to forgive the sin in our life.。
There's nothing that can take us away from Christ.。
He begins the work that started in us。
and he finishes that work.。
Jesus is the only one, my friends,。
that can forgive you of your sin.。
There's no amount of good works, only Christ, only Christ.。
And so we come to God and say,。
"God, would you take all of our sin on you?。
"Would you forgive me of my sin?。
"Would you allow this bag of bones to become life。
"because we're dead in our trespasses and sins?"。
But the Bible says he's made us alive together in Christ.。
Have you made that decision?。
Have you made that decision。
that could change everything about your life?。
It goes on, it says in verse 10。
that we are his workmanship,。
created in Christ Jesus for good works,。
which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them.。
Like we go back to good works,。
not so that good works would save us,。
but the Bible says that, hey, once you are saved,。
like you've been saved from work,。
you don't work for your salvation,。
that is a free gift of God so that you and I can't boast.。
But it says, hey, once you've accepted that free gift,。
that grace, that mercy,。
then he has prepared good works for you to walk into.。
The sin in your life no longer conquers you.。
And so you don't work for your salvation,。
but you do work from your salvation。
and you take what Christ has done in your life。
and now you begin to pour it into the good works。
which he has prepared beforehand。
and you begin to walk in those good works.。
We are people created in Christ Jesus for good works.。
If your salvation is not followed by good works,。
then you might not be saved.。
Do you see good work in your life?。
Once God saves you, he creates you for good works,。
which just means that he's put desires in you。
that were not there before.。
Like I had no desire to pick up my Bible。
before that night in my apartment my junior year。
and read it, no desire.。
I had no desire to step foot into a church。
and get plugged in and serve.。
I had no desire to give my life away。
so that others could come to know。
the hope that lied within me.。
I had no desire until God awakened that in my life.。
I had no desire to go around and tell people about Jesus。
and share my story until God awakened that desire within me.。
I had no desire to memorize scripture.。
I had no desire to confess my sin。
to a smaller group of men that could know me。
and I could know them and they began to hold me accountable.。
I didn't want accountability, what?。
No, that's a dirty word, man, get away from me.。
That wasn't me.。
But now I desire to be fully known.。
And it gives people an opportunity to fully love me。
because they know all of me.。
They know all of me.。
He begins to change your desires.。
That's what this text is saying.。
And you begin to walk in those good works.。
So if your faith is not producing good works,。
what do you do?。
Though the answer isn't that you would just。
start walking out what I just said.。
That would be just as useless as you taking a piece of fruit。
and putting it on a dead tree,。
hoping that it would become alive.。
No, that you would see that you are dead apart from Christ,。
that you need a new nature,。
that you need him to come into your life。
and you need to bend your knee。
and you need to surrender your life to Christ。
and say, God, I need you.。
I can't produce these desires apart from you。
because my nature is bad.。
It's destructive.。
Is that you tonight?。
Do you need a new nature?。
Have you embraced the overwhelming love and grace。
given to you by Christ。
and what he's done for you on the cross?。
And through his resurrection。
that he defeated sin and death.。
For those of us that are saved,。
we need to understand that we are his workmanship.。
This Greek word, poema,。
it was where we get the Greek word,。
or before we get the word poem.。
We are his workmanship.。
He's created us in Christ Jesus。
to compose something beautiful that will glorify him.。
There's a song that Davy is gonna sing tonight。
that she wrote and she composed that。
not so that she would get the affirmation from men。
but so that she would get the affirmation from God。
so that she would begin to please God。
with all of her being,。
with the gifts and the talents that she's been given.。
That's what God is calling you and I to do。
when we step foot into our office tomorrow。
that whatever you're doing is now your mission field.。
You might be in business。
but you leverage business for the glory of God。
so that others can come to know him.。
You might be a nurse or you might be a doctor。
but you're leveraging that.。
You might help people physically but spiritually,。
you know that they're dead apart from Christ。
and so you begin to leverage that。
so that others can come to know that hope.。
You might be a barista。
and your job isn't just to make coffee。
but your job is to step into the good works。
that God has prepared before him。
in the same way that Steve Jobs created the iPhone.。
That was his workmanship to change the world.。
Jesus is calling you and I to step foot。
into the good works,。
into the spaces and the places that you go every day。
so that he gets the glory,。
you get the joy,。
you understand why you were created。
and that the world around us receives the good.。
Let me pray that you would tonight.。
God in heaven,。
thank you for your goodness and your mercy on our life.。
Apart from you, God, we are dead.。
Oh, we might be physically being,。
we might be alive physically but we are dead spiritually.。
We're dead men and women walking。
and so God, would you begin to awaken。
men and women in this moment,。
first and foremost, those that need a new nature.。
(gentle music)。
That they would see that they can do nothing apart from you.。
There's nothing that they can do to be made right.。
And God, tonight, they would believe,。
they would have the faith。
to accept what you've done for them。
and that they would confess with their mouth。
that you are truly the leader of their life.。
(gentle music)。
And God, you would begin a work in them。
that you've never done before.。
And for those of us that are saved,。
we're walking with the Lord,。
that we wouldn't give up when we fall into sin。
but that we would remind ourself of the gospel,。
that we'd run back to Ephesians 2, 1 through 10。
and we would believe the gospel.。
As some of us, we would not wanna admit。
that we're probably worse than what I even。
failed to articulate tonight,。
that we're more depraved than what we care to admit。
but we're more loved than what we probably express.。
And so would we walk in light of those two realities tonight。
and God, would that produce in us a desire for more of you。
no matter where we find ourselves tonight.。
No matter what circumstances are going on in our life,。
no matter what sin we're wrestling with,。
what sin we're trying to fight,。
would we have a reality that the gospel is enough?。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
