(upbeat music)。
- Welcome, Dallas.。
Welcome, Fort Worth.。
Those tuning in around the country, welcome.。
Welcome, Houston.。
It's great to be with you.。
It's great to worship with you.。
It's great to reflect on the goodness of God with you.。
The last couple weeks, I started talking about。
moving into a house, and the reason I have,。
this is just kind of a big event in our lives,。
we're actually building a house.。
And so we've never done this before.。
We're new to this game, and so this happened。
because we had sold a house that we had lived in。
for a little while and made a profit。
that we wanted to reinvest.。
And then we have some friends, some really good friends。
who are also builders, which afforded us。
the opportunity to build a home.。
And so we were excited about that.。
And everybody has kind of set us up。
for how awful that can be.。
And so they have just said, hey, make sure your marriage。
is in a good place.。
I'm like, serious?。
Make sure my, okay, it is.。
And so we've kind of started going down this path,。
and it's been awesome.。
Everything has gone unbelievably smooth,。
except one thing.。
There's kind of been one hiccup along the way。
as I reflect on this process,。
and really that kind of designing process,。
what's gonna go where.。
And it's not, you know, listen,。
it's not gonna be on MTV Cribs or anything,。
or like, you know, parsonage pimped out。
or anything like that.。
It's just a house.。
But the one thing that's kind of been the hiccup。
is the lights, where the lights go.。
And here's why.。
Because they're expensive, okay?。
You have to pay for both the wiring,。
so the electrical work, and then as well,。
the fixtures, the light fixtures themselves。
are very expensive.。
And so here's what I'm trying to do。
is I'm trying to figure out how we go without.。
I'm like one of the builders, and I'm like,。
do we really need lights?。
I mean, and so everything, I'm serious,。
this is a real conversation.。
We're looking, and there's like a stairwell,。
and I'm like, I think we can put one light there.。
And he's like, no, you're gonna need at least three.。
And I'm like, no, just put a bright one, okay?。
And he's like, bro, your kids are gonna fall down the stairs.。
Like, you need a light.。
And I'm like, okay, fine.。
And he's like, in this bathroom,。
like, we'll put a light here.。
And he's like, you're gonna need two.。
I'm like, listen, we can go potty in the dark, okay?。
I've done it 1,000 times.。
It can be done, just put one light there.。
And so we're kind of going back and forth on this.。
And so I show you just kind of the light plans.。
I think we have a picture, so there it is again.。
And so those little circles, those are the lights,。
and then the dotted lines, this is the electrical plans.。
The dotted lines are the wires and whatnot.。
And this is an intense process.。
You literally sit down and choose。
where every single light's gonna go,。
and with every light, I just see dollar signs。
flying out the window.。
And so we kind of do it, the lights are up,。
and I'm walking the house now, and it's painted,。
and the lights are there, and I'm with the builder.。
And over the island, if you will, in the kitchen,。
there's two pendant lights.。
Those are these kind of things that hang down.。
And I'm looking at it, and I'm like,。
hey, you know, everything looks good.。
And the builder's just kind of like looking,。
and kind of walking around and looking.。
And he's like, those are off.。
And I'm like, what do you mean?。
And he's like, well, they're four inches that way.。
They need to be centered, they're four inches off.。
And so everything, it's like painted, okay,。
like the sheet rock's there.。
And I'm like, oh, bro, don't worry about it.。
No need to move 'em.。
He's like, no, man, you gotta put 'em in the right place.。
This is a masterful builder who takes pride in his work,。
and he's like, you've gotta put the light in the right place.。
If you put it where it is, you're not gonna be able。
to see what you're eating.。
It needs to be four inches this way.。
And so they go and they rewire and tear out the sheet rock。
and move the pendants four inches toward the island,。
or at least they're going to.。
Because he takes pride in his work,。
and he's very, very intentional of where he puts lights.。
God's building something.。
He's building a kingdom of which Jesus is going to come back。
and finish the job.。
But we start the job.。
As followers of Jesus Christ, if you're here,。
and the Holy Spirit indwells you,。
meaning influences you towards the things of God,。
he's building something, and the metaphor。
that Jesus uses for you is a light.。
He says, let your light shine before men。
so that they will glorify your Father in heaven.。
And God is hanging lights throughout this world.。
He has his people throughout this world,。
and we are reflecting the goodness of God。
and the reality of God through the sharing of the gospel。
and the building of his kingdom.。
There are dead people walking around us,。
eternal beings destined for one of two destinations,。
be it hell or be it heaven.。
And God uses a story, his spirit,。
breathed in through a narrative which you share,。
which might determine which is which.。
This is your purpose.。
This is why you have breath in your lungs.。
This is why your heart beats in your chest.。
This is why the Lord left you here after he saved you,。
so that you would carry forth this life-saving,。
eternal-changing, eternity-changing narrative,。
that you would share it.。
And this is your purpose, and I'm telling you,。
and I've said it before, a person who lives。
outside their purpose is a great tragedy.。
It is tragic when you live outside your purpose.。
In fact, you won't experience life in that realm.。
You won't really understand while you're here.。
You'll look for purpose in work。
and in all of these other things, and you will miss it,。
because God has given you an eternal purpose,。
a purpose that extends past your hobbies,。
extends past your likes, extends past your job。
or your occupation or your talents or your gifts,。
something much, much bigger than you.。
I've heard it said that you are a missionary。
or a mission field.。
Spurgeon said every Christian is a missionary or an imposter.。
I'm telling you that you are a missionary or you need one.。
The very essence of Christianity is sharing Christ。
with those who do not know him, and so tonight,。
we're talking about the reality that you are the light,。
that God left here, that you carry forth the gospel,。
that you show the world the love of Jesus,。
and so I'll share with you some statistics.。
Lifeway Research Group did this survey in 2013,。
and they said 80% of Christians。
believe they have a personal responsibility。
to share their faith.。
80% of Christians believe they have a personal responsibility。
to share their faith.。
When I heard that statistic,。
I thought 20% of Christians aren't Christians,。
'cause how can you be a Christian and not believe。
that you have a responsibility to share your faith?。
And while 80% believe that they do,。
it says that only 39% of Christians。
have shared with at least one person in the past six months,。
which means to me 61% of Christians aren't being Christian.。
They're not being very Christian,。
and so we're starting a new series tonight.。
This series comes from Romans 1, verse 16, unashamed,。
or we're calling it unashamed.。
You're gonna hear more about the origination of this series,。
where it came from, some tonight,。
some in the weeks ahead.。
We'll be here three weeks, but it's actually based on,。
and not to be confusing, 'cause I just said Romans 1:16,。
it's actually based on Acts 1:8.。
Acts 1:8 is the Great Commission in the Acts accounts, okay?。
And so as the apostles lived it,。
the Great Commission is right before Jesus goes up。
to be with God at the right hand of God in heaven,。
before he ascends, he tells his followers,。
hey, you're to go into all the earth。
and teach them the very things that I taught you,。
baptizing them in the name of the Father,。
and the Son, and the Holy Spirit.。
If you are here and you're going to be with God。
forever in heaven, it is because of the faithful work。
of those men living out that mission,。
being unashamed of the gospel.。
Acts 1:8, now the account in Acts, reads like this.。
They come to him, they say, Jesus,。
are you going to restore the kingdom?。
Right now is now the time you're going to restore the kingdom。
and he says, no, I'm gonna go away.。
But one's going to come to you, he says this,。
but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you。
and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem,。
and in Judea, and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.。
And so as we do this series, the first week,。
we're gonna talk about our Jerusalem,。
the places that we are.。
This is where the apostles were, their Jerusalem.。
Judea and Samaria was the area that was entrusted to them,。
and then all the ends of the earth。
is how the Gentiles essentially heard the gospel,。
that's you and I, because they lived out this mission.。
They had passed the torch to you.。
They carried it with their life.。
It cost them their life, by the way.。
And they've carried it forward and it's now reached you.。
What are you going to do with it?。
Have a big party and go home, make a million dollars,。
you know, live quietly in the neighborhood.。
What are you going to do with this torch。
that people have entrusted to you, cost them their lives?。
These were young adults, essentially nobodies,。
people, the ones that rabbis had forgotten.。
They didn't have a lot of money.。
They were 20s and 30-somethings.。
And when they understood who Jesus was,。
they said, man, I will give my life to that.。
Church isn't something that I'm just gonna go to.。
Church is something I am.。
Before I'm anything, I'm a follower of Jesus Christ.。
This is my prayer for us this evening.。
And so in this series, we will cover your Jerusalem。
tonight, your Judea and Samaria next week,。
and then the ends of the earth.。
Tonight, specifically, we're going to talk。
about your purpose, the place of which。
you will live out that purpose,。
and the people and the place of which。
you will live out that purpose.。
So your purpose, your place, and your people.。
I'm gonna be in Acts, I mean, sorry,。
Matthew 5, if you want to turn there.。
This is the Sermon on the Mount.。
Matthew, first book of the New Testament,。
chapter five, verse 13.。
Jesus is teaching, this is a sermon.。
Jesus gave this sermon, okay, the most famous sermon。
in the history of history, the Sermon on the Mount.。
This is an excerpt from the Sermon on the Mount,。
of which, if you were there, I don't think。
you'd go home and be like, oh my goodness,。
I just heard this amazing speaker today.。
He called me salt and light, it was amazing.。
No, I think you'd be like, what?。
What does that even mean?。
And so tonight, we're gonna talk about what it means.。
He says, verse 13.。
You are the salt of the earth,。
but if the salt loses its saltiness,。
how can it be made salty again?。
It is no longer good for anything,。
except to be thrown out and trampled underfoot.。
There's a lot going on here.。
You're like, okay, Jesus just called me。
that little canister by the pepper, that's weird, Jesus.。
What are you saying there?。
And so salt in this community, it was very valuable.。
First of all, soldiers were paid in salt.。
If you've ever heard a man's not worth his salt,。
or is he worth his salt, that comes from this reality。
that the Roman soldiers were paid in salt.。
We get the word salary from the word salt.。
Okay, interesting.。
And so what they would do is salt there was not mined,。
it came from the ocean.。
So they would go in the ocean,。
this is the area, think of the Dead Sea,。
where it's salt, very salty water.。
They would go and get plants from the ocean,。
and they would rub it on their meat.。
And what it would do is it would preserve the meat.。
It would keep the meat from rotting.。
And then when they were done rubbing it on the meat,。
if it wasn't salty anymore,。
they would then throw it on their flat thatched roof.。
And what it would do is as people would walk。
on top of the roofs, it would trample the things。
that were salty so that it would seal their roof.。
And so this is the metaphor,。
the imagery that Jesus is giving it.。
He's saying, hey, the purpose of salt。
is to preserve things from rotting.。
But after you have used it, after it has served its purpose,。
it goes on its roof, on the roof, and it is purposeless.。
In fact, the very word for good here。
is the same word that we see in Acts 1:8 for power.。
It says, it is no longer good for anything.。
And it's the same word we see in Acts 1:8。
where it says you will receive power.。
You will receive purpose.。
Here in Matthew 5, it is no longer purposeful for anything.。
It has lost its purpose.。
So what is your purpose?。
Your purpose is to remain salty.。
And what does that mean in context?。
To preserve, to preserve what?。
To preserve the reality and the things of God。
in a culture that is quickly losing them.。
My first point this evening is you have a purpose.。
You have a purpose.。
You must understand what your purpose is.。
I know you think that your purpose。
is to make a lot of money.。
I know you think your purpose is to have a lot of friends。
or a lot of Facebook likes。
or a really good Instagram account。
or whatever you might think your purpose is,。
to have a BMW or something.。
I don't know, but your purpose has been given to you。
by God for God.。
You can't miss that.。
God the creator gave you a purpose.。
That purpose is for him.。
And so there's two metaphors that Jesus uses here.。
The first one is salt,。
and then the next one we'll talk about is actually light.。
And so we are preserving a culture in America.。
Do you know, and I just want you to think about this.。
You probably, you might even disagree right now.。
Go home and think about it.。
What people like about America is not America.。
It's not an American culture.。
It's a Christian culture.。
It's a godly culture.。
It's the things of God。
that have been preserved in our culture.。
And you're like, well, wait a minute, hold on.。
What did you say?。
There have been places。
where there has been a Christian culture.。
It has now left.。
Like if you go to parts of Europe right now,。
churches are like museums.。
They're like ruins.。
You would go there, but not to worship.。
You would go there to see the architecture.。
You would go there to see the statues.。
You might go there to see a painting,。
but you're not there to worship.。
In fact, no one really goes there to worship。
because it has moved on.。
The spirit of God has moved on.。
It's headed west.。
It came here to America.。
And it's probably leaving,。
unless you do something about it,。
unless you begin to preserve this culture。
that has been entrusted to us.。
If you look at Amsterdam today,。
that's probably the future of America.。
Things of the red light district,。
the freedom and tolerance and all of those things。
that generation Y and millennials,。
that you and your peers celebrate,。
but don't fully understand.。
You look at Syria,。
where people are losing their head。
because they're a Christian.。
That's the future of Amsterdam.。
This is what happens when a place is Christian,。
when they understand what they believe。
and why they live,。
and they're preserving that culture,。
and then it leaves and it moves on.。
Darkness is left.。
The world that your children will be raised in。
will be very different from the world。
that you were raised in,。
unless you get this.。
As millennials, I've told you before,。
we're poised well for a great awakening,。
a revival, that this country would return back to God.。
The reality of God has been preserved here by believers.。
I'm talking about in America.。
Lots of examples of this.。
In God we trust on our money,。
of one nation under God and our pledge.。
Even in our language, things we say,。
like the blind leading the blind.。
This comes from the scriptures,。
an eye for an eye.。
This comes from Jesus.。
These were things he said。
that are just kind of indwelled in our culture.。
People say, I see the writing on the wall.。
Okay, those sayings come from the scriptures.。
The apple of my eye,。
out of the mouths of babes.。
There's lots of examples of these things that we say。
that actually come from the Bible。
that have been preserved in the culture that we live in.。
And did you know that about every 10 years,。
someone raises their hand,。
some expert atheist, and says,。
hey, the Bible will soon be irrelevant.。
In fact, it was Voltaire in the 1700s。
who said in 10 years, no one will be buying the Bible.。
No one will be reading the Bible.。
It will be completely irrelevant.。
This was in the 1700s.。
Today, 2014, is the bestseller.。
Not only the bestseller in the history of the world,。
the bestseller in 2014, the most read book,。
the most downloaded book, by about a margin of a billion.。
Okay, so second place isn't even really that close.。
And it's not even another book that you might think.。
It's not a book like the Quran.。
That's not second place.。
They've been wrong.。
The Bible's not going anywhere.。
I've read the back of the book.。
I know how this thing ends.。
Like Jesus comes back, white horse, you know,。
sword, crazy out of his mouth, robe dripped in blood,。
tattoo on his thigh, it's gonna be nuts.。
(congregation laughing)。
Like we know how this ends.。
And so you just get to play a part in it.。
Do I play a part in creating a place。
that Jesus is gonna return to?。
Or do I play a part in losing it。
with the peace that has been entrusted to me?。
Do I preserve it?。
Or do I not?。
As a follower of Jesus Christ, it's not really an option.。
Your purpose is to preserve and share the realities of God.。
And so in your purpose at work,。
wherever you went today, wherever you came here from,。
your purpose there,。
there in the middle of it is an eternal purpose.。
And the purpose of your hobbies,。
be it wakeboarding or art or whatever your hobbies are,。
in the middle of that is an eternal purpose.。
Something that God has entrusted to you,。
plans that he has for you that he prepared。
before the creation of the world, Ephesians 2:10,。
"For we are God's masterpiece,。
"his workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good works,。
"which he has prepared in advance for us to do."。
This is your purpose,。
that you would preserve the realities of him.。
And this is why some people name their kids biblical names,。
preserving a culture.。
There's not a lot of Judas's running around.。
I don't know if you haven't noticed that.。
(congregation laughing)。
There's not, there are a lot of Matthews,。
there are a lot of Johns,。
not many Judas's.。
This is why about 50 of you,。
every couple months,。
give up your weekend to go and share the gospel。
on the street in a weekend we call Unashamed Weekend.。
I wanna tell you how that started.。
If you haven't heard about it,。
we do this deal called Unashamed,。
and it's where we go and we live kind of in West Dallas,。
and we do service projects,。
and throughout the day,。
we just share the gospel with people。
in the very places that you might go out in,。
like Uptown and Lower Greenville and Deep Ellum,。
and we're just like,。
"Hey, can we talk to you about Jesus?"。
Not in weird ways,。
but, "Hey, what are you doing?。
"Hey, I'd like to get to know you,。
"and by the way, I know how you can live forever."。
And so, as we do that,。
I wanna tell you how that started.。
We were in Haiti, okay?。
And so there was a group of us,。
a group of porch leaders,。
we were in Haiti,。
and we were in this village,。
and there was this interpreter there named Villerson,。
and so Villerson is our guy who is our translator,。
and we're going kind of door to door in Haiti,。
and it's really frustrating。
sharing the gospel through an interpreter.。
I don't know if you've ever done it,。
but you're like, "Hey, God loves you so much,。
"and you've been separated from him by your sin,。
"and he loves you so much,。
"he sent Jesus, where was I?。
"Jesus to die for his sin."。
It's just real frustrating.。
So Villerson, who became a friend of ours,。
and was a Christian, was a Christ follower,。
he knew the gospel clearly, right?。
And so I'm like, "Dude, these are your people,。
"just tell them."。
And this particular village that we were in,。
it was his village,。
it was the village where he was from.。
And so I was sitting there,。
and I'm like, "Hey, Villerson,。
"I don't wanna do the whole interpreter game,。
"just tell them the gospel.。
"Just tell them what Jesus has done for them."。
And that night we were kind of debriefing。
that frustration among our team.。
And several felt it,。
talking to people and not understanding the language.。
And I told them, I'm like,。
"Hey, I just told Villerson, man, just tell him."。
And one of the guys said,。
"Hey, you know you're asking him。
"to knock on his neighbor's door。
"and just share the gospel."。
I said, "Yeah, exactly,。
"that's exactly what I'm asking him to do."。
He goes, "But we don't do that."。
And I said, "Be quiet, young man, you will not know."。
(congregation laughing)。
I said, "You're exactly right, we don't do that."。
My friend Ryan Wall and Allie Wall,。
who are on our staff now,。
they were there, they weren't on our staff then.。
And Ryan just said, "When we get back to Dallas,。
"we're going to do that."。
We're going to move throughout the streets。
of Dallas and Fort Worth,。
and we're going to declare the gospel,。
'cause I cannot ask this young man to do it,。
unless I'm willing to do that.。
And so Unashamed Weekend was born.。
Because I see the same frustrations。
every single time I return from one of these trips.。
People get back on the airplane,。
and they usually had a life-changing time.。
In fact, in a few weeks, I'm going to tell all of you,。
if you haven't been overseas。
for the purpose of sharing the gospel, let's go.。
But they get on the plane,。
and there's a point of frustration,。
'cause they say, they wish two things.。
I've heard it over and over.。
I wish I understood the language.。
I wish I could share with them in their own language.。
And I wish I understood the culture.。
And the irony.。
We get on an airplane to return back to a place。
where we understand the culture,。
and we speak the language.。
We're not taking the gospel to Haiti.。
It's already there.。
There are churches in Haiti.。
We're not taking the gospel to Haiti。
any more than we are Dallas or Fort Worth.。
We are preserving a culture of Christ in Haiti,。
exactly as we should in Dallas and Fort Worth.。
And do you know something else。
that happens every single time?。
Every trip I've been on, the same conversation happens.。
People come up to me, and they're so excited.。
They say, JP, JP, bro,。
I've never felt so alive.。
Woke up in the morning.。
God helped me share the gospel faithfully and courageously.。
Go to breakfast, hey, who can I share the gospel with?。
Go to lunch, who can I share the gospel?。
Go to dinner, who can I share the gospel with?。
All in between.。
Go to bed.。
JP, I've never felt so alive.。
I say, that's because for the first time。
you are living within your purpose.。
And I want you to be abundantly clear。
as to what they're saying.。
Some of you, you need to take this personally.。
They're saying, I've found life in a way that you haven't.。
Many of you.。
I have found life to the fullest and abundantly。
in a way that many of you haven't。
as you continue to pursue life in uptown。
and lower Greenville and Deep Ellum。
or wherever that may be, Addison.。
Or in Fort Worth, Sundance Square,。
or Billy Bob's or wherever in Fort Worth.。
They say, hey, I found something。
that you haven't yet found.。
I found life in a more bigger way than you have.。
And I'm just standing up here saying,。
man, I want that for you.。
I want that for you every day, every week.。
I've never known life like this,。
life of sharing my faith.。
Your purpose is to show Christ to a world。
that desperately needs him.。
Yesterday, as I was preparing for this message,。
I wanted to be in the city, so I was at Mudsmith。
down in lower Greenville and bumped into a guy。
who goes here and he just said,。
hey, what is your favorite thing。
about doing ministry with young adults?。
I said, easy, bro.。
Easy, man.。
Watching them be repurposed.。
He said, what do you mean?。
I was like, watching folks who come in,。
they're like the rich young ruler,。
like they have all these gifts and talents。
and they're so focused on using them for them。
and they like think they're Christian,。
but they've never lived Christian.。
They just kind of go on to church。
every now and then, maybe every weekend.。
And watching them really get it,。
get lit up with the Holy Spirit,。
like ready to just run through walls for the sake of Jesus。
and tell everybody, their coworker,。
lose their job sharing the gospel.。
Watching them find life for the first time,。
find purpose for the first time.。
Hands down, my favorite thing.。
Jesus goes, verse 14.。
You're the light of the world.。
A town built on a hill cannot be hidden.。
Neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl.。
Instead, they put it on its stand。
and it gives light to everyone in the house.。
And so Jesus is talking now。
about the specific positioning of the light.。
He's saying, hey, if you're a light,。
you have to give off light.。
A light that doesn't give off light is not a light.。
It's a bulb, you know, it's not a light.。
A light gives off light.。
And so if you're a Christian, you give off light.。
You are by which, the way by which people see.。
You are drawing them to Christ.。
You think about this,。
like we are people obsessed with lights, right?。
Some of you are like, I just, I got that.。
Like half of you just went, huh?。
Let me explain it.。
You ever heard this?。
Oh, come out here, you gotta see the stars.。
Oh, hey, do you wanna go look at Christmas lights?。
Hey, guess what?。
Kaboom town, man.。
Fireworks.。
Lights in the sky.。
Well, you get it?。
We are a people obsessed with lights.。
We're like moths, man, light.。
You know?。
Moth to a flame, we are.。
And so if you're a light, people are drawn to you, right?。
And Jesus is just saying,。
hey, I put lights in real specific places.。
So my second point is, you have a place.。
You have been entrusted with a place.。
In the first century, lights were very expensive.。
In 2014, lights are still very expensive.。
They typically had one in their house。
and they would put it where it really mattered.。
They would never put it under something.。
Jesus is saying something preposterous.。
He was like, you would never do this.。
In the same way, I put lights in very specific places.。
Just like I put them in specific places in my house,。
God put them specific places in the world.。
Now, I will tell you, some burn brighter than others.。
Some shine a little brighter than others.。
But for you not to share your faith。
is as crazy as installing a light under a couch。
or under a chair.。
You would never do it.。
So as you live out your purpose,。
you live out your purpose in the place that God has put you.。
Acts 17, verse 26, just to show you how profound and real。
this idea is that God has given you a place, it says this.。
From one man he made all the nations, he being God,。
that they should inhabit the whole earth.。
And he marked out their appointed times in history.。
That's 2014 for you and me.。
And the boundaries of their lands.。
He established when you would live and where you would live。
before the creation of the world.。
God, who is sovereign and has a plan for you,。
determined when you would live,。
when you would actually exist in history。
and where you would live.。
He determined your boundaries.。
So what do I mean by boundaries?。
Do I just mean Dallas?。
Do I just mean Fort Worth?。
No, I mean not just your neighborhood,。
not just your apartment complex, I mean your Starbucks.。
I mean your Tom Thumb or Kroger, your grocery store.。
Do you see that?。
I mean that your gas station, the place that you go back to,。
your anthropology or your mall。
or whatever that is for you, right?。
That place that you go where they like know you,。
you walk, oh hey, what's up, Chris?。
Hey, what's up?。
That's your boundaries.。
And he did it intentionally.。
He put you there intentionally,。
your job where you go to every single day.。
Is God intentionally moving through your life。
like you're a pawn on a chessboard and he's moving you?。
He's like do battle here, shine light here,。
shine light here.。
I really hope for some of you right now。
it's like there's a light bulb going off。
and you're like oh man, I've gotta change the way I shop.。
I've gotta change the way I get gas.。
I've gotta change the way I get coffee.。
There's more purpose in this than I actually thought.。
Lights also push back darkness.。
That's what they do where there's light,。
darkness can't be and our country's growing dim.。
It's only because people have stopped shining.。
That's it.。
One generation, that's what they're saying about you, man.。
That's what they're saying about you and your peers.。
There's a concentration of Christianity happening.。
Let me explain.。
All these people who went through the world。
calling themselves Christians。
are kind of realizing they're not。
and so they're saying no, I'm not anymore.。
And that's not altogether bad。
because some of you in your 20s and 30s,。
you're realizing you are。
and you're rejecting cultural Christianity。
and it's affecting the way you date,。
the way you shop, the way you live,。
the way you share, the way you shine.。
And you're saying I will give my life for this Jesus.。
I will die for this Jesus.。
And that is the call on your life.。
Yeah, you guys can clap for that if you believe that.。
(congregation applauding)。
Some of you are like, but JP, my work, it's so dark.。
Good, God put a light there in you.。
Corporate America is the darkest mission field。
I've ever seen.。
I live there, I work there.。
Just to quantify that, I mean, I've been to Africa,。
I've been to the jungles of Africa, the bush of Africa.。
I've been to Haiti, I've been to the Amazon jungle,。
I've been to Brazil, I've been down the Amazon for four days。
to reach a people that have never been reached.。
I've been to Mexico for the purpose of sharing the gospel.。
I've been to these places,。
the darkest mission field I've ever seen。
was right here in DFW.。
And you know what's crazy?。
Let me tell you something that's crazy.。
Today, right now, I could go to Brazil, I could go to Haiti,。
I could go to Africa, I could go to places。
where the UN would say, don't go here.。
Our government would say, no, don't go to that place.。
And I could go there, I mean, I could get a visa。
to Brazil today, I could go to the Congo,。
I mean, purchase a plane ticket, I could be there tomorrow.。
That's what's crazy.。
You know one place I can't be?。
The eighth floor of AT&T where I worked for four years,。
every day.。
Because I'd have to go through security, I had this badge。
and I would swipe it and go through security。
and I was there every single day in this cube farm.。
And today, I can't be there.。
I can't, and I'm not even sure, let me strike that.。
I'm certain that I wasn't as faithful。
as I should have been.。
I'm certain that there are people who God wanted to save。
and they're not saved right now。
because I didn't faithfully share with them.。
Because I pursued my comfort。
and I thought it might be awkward.。
I love what David said a couple months ago,。
he's like, man, I don't know,。
like it would be really difficult to explain。
to the Apostle Paul why we didn't share the gospel.。
He'd be like, whoa, because they're gonna put you in prison?。
You're like, no.。
Because they're gonna torture you?。
You're like, no, not really.。
But why, why aren't you sharing?。
That's awkward.。
You know, I'm not sure you'd understand what that means.。
I'm not sure you'd get it.。
And it's awkward because we haven't been loving。
in the places that have been entrusted to us.。
It's not awkward when you've been like。
the hardest worker there。
and caring for your employees so well。
that they're like, man, I'll trust you。
with anything you say.。
What, this dude died and came back to life?。
Okay, I'm in.。
It's not awkward when we're lights。
and we're shining brightly.。
It's less awkward.。
So I can't go to the eighth floor of AT&T。
where I was every day, five days a week。
with the people there working with them every day.。
I also can't go behind the counter at Starbucks。
where you might be.。
I also can't go into that restaurant。
with those servers back into the kitchen.。
I also can't go to that building。
that you've been entrusted to。
or Dallas ISD in the teacher's lounge。
or Richardson ISD or wherever it is that you work。
or you hang out with those engineers。
or those other financial advisors。
or whatever it is that you do.。
I'm not there.。
But God put a light there。
and he put a light there to shine.。
That's your place.。
In the same way, verse 16,。
let your light shine before others。
that they may see your good deeds。
and glorify your Father in heaven.。
I wanna ask a question around this line.。
It says, one you may have heard before.。
Let your light shine before others。
that they may see your good deeds。
and glorify your Father in heaven.。
Who are the others and who are the they?。
Let your light shine.。
Who am I supposed to let my light shine before?。
It says others and they.。
And my third point is you have people.。
You have a people and a place。
that you're to live out your purpose with.。
There are people in the places that you go to,。
the boundaries that have been marked out for,。
where you are to live out your purpose。
of being salt and light.。
You have a people.。
And so who are the others and the they?。
They're your people.。
And so like where is that?。
Well, where do light shine?。
Simply put, like your headlights,。
they shine right in front of you.。
Lights in a house, they shine where they're put,。
where they're placed.。
And so wherever you are, wherever place you're in,。
the people around you, they are the darkness。
and you are the light.。
You are the way that they are going to see the way。
to eternity.。
There's not another plan.。
Okay, I've read that if you don't share, rocks will cry out.。
But right now, rocks aren't crying out, it's just you.。
You're the light there.。
God said, hey, I love you and trust you so much,。
I put people around you, that you would shine a light。
into their heart so that they might see。
how they could live with me forever.。
That you would be the light that they're drawn to,。
like fireworks, like Christmas lights, like stars.。
And Dallas, I assume Fort Worth is so dark,。
if you just shine at all, you're probably gonna stand out.。
If you just shine a little bit, you're gonna stand out.。
They're gonna see you, man.。
There's something different about this one.。
Hey man, let me ask you a question.。
Why don't you go party with them?。
Don't you know we were at Happy Hour last night?。
Dude, I got wasted, it was so fun.。
Man, Mary had that lampshade on her head, it was crazy.。
How come you weren't there?。
Hey man, let me ask you.。
I noticed that you get here early,。
and you just work harder than everyone else.。
Almost like you're not working for man,。
but working for something else.。
Hey man, I just noticed the way that you love,。
like you're so intentional with the dude。
who never goes to lunch, like you ask him to lunch.。
It seems like you just can care,。
like you're not trying to get,。
you're not so concerned about yourself,。
you're concerned about everyone else around you.。
Like why do you do that?。
Why do you shine so bright?。
What are you doing?。
Who do you worship?。
How can I worship him?。
Who are your people?。
Three groups, I believe.。
I'll go through this quickly.。
The first one is your family.。
If you trusted Christ late in your life,。
your family should see a change in you.。
I will tell you, I believe family is the most difficult.。
Jesus said that a prophet is not welcome in his own town,。
and referring to family,。
or those there that have rejected him,。
that know him, that knew him the closest.。
But you share with love,。
you share consistently,。
and don't fall into old traps.。
See, I know it's like, well, I'm the baby of the family,。
like that, I've never just really kind of grown past that.。
Listen, share with love, share consistently,。
and don't fall into old traps.。
What I mean by old traps is like,。
if you and your dad always get into an argument,。
like, avoid that argument, and say,。
hey, I'm sorry, will you forgive me?。
Like, growing up, I did these things, will you forgive me?。
But I found something really good。
that I want you to know about.。
I want you to know there's been a change in my life。
I wanna share with you.。
The second group is your neighbors.。
Guys, this is the layup, man.。
Do you know your neighbors?。
Like, do you know the people that live。
on both sides of you, and above you, and below you?。
Do you know them?。
And I don't mean do you know their names.。
I mean, do you know them?。
Do you know what they love to do?。
Do you know what religion they are?。
Oh, you're Muslim?。
Man, I'd love to hear about that.。
How did you become Muslim?。
Were you raised Muslim?。
What did that look like?。
Oh, you're of the Baha'i faith?。
What is the Baha'i faith?。
Tell me about that.。
Hey, do you wanna come over and have dinner。
with me and my roommates this weekend?。
Man, I'd love to get to know you.。
God, in his sovereignty, placed me right next door to you.。
And some of us are just like,。
you want me to go and share with the people。
who are always so loud?。
(congregation laughing)。
Yes.。
Plainly put, yes.。
Yeah, the people, they constantly make all the noise。
above you.。
Go love on them and tell them about Jesus,。
and maybe they'll stop making so much noise.。
(congregation laughing)。
And share with your coworkers.。
We talked a lot about this.。
Third group, your coworkers, your people.。
The people on the other side of the cube from you,。
the people on the other side of the wall from you,。
that other barista, that other teacher,。
that other financial advisor, that other engineer,。
that other artist, that other graphic designer,。
whatever you are.。
The other one, the one around you,。
the one that's right there every single day,。
the one you like, the one you don't like.。
Do you know them?。
Not their name, do you know their upbringing?。
Do you know where they're from?。
Do you know what they do?。
Do you love them?。
This is what it looks like to be salt and light.。
Do you actually care where they're going to spend eternity?。
I heard a guy say, as an atheist,。
say how much do you have to hate someone not to tell them?。
Man, you've been given grace.。
Someone shared with you.。
Can you imagine if they hadn't?。
Someone shared with you.。
Romans one, verse 16 says this.。
For I'm not ashamed of the gospel。
because it is the power of God。
that brings salvation to everyone who believes.。
First to the Jew and then to the Gentile.。
For I am not ashamed of the gospel。
because it is the power of God that brings salvation.。
Save their eternity.。
They go from hell to heaven with God forever.。
To everyone who believes upon this,。
first to the Jew and then to us and to your peers。
and to your family and to your neighbors.。
They will be with God forever.。
I just have a hunch there's going to be。
a little bit of gratitude waiting there for you.。
Thank you so much for telling me。
that I could be with God, Jehovah, Creator,。
forever and ever in paradise.。
That I didn't have to go there。
where there's weeping and gnashing of teeth.。
Whatever that is, it sounds awful.。
I don't want to be there.。
I heard one professor say it like this,。
that when he's sharing, he thinks of people。
like barrels of gunpowder.。
Like he's lighting matches at barrels of gunpowder。
and some of the barrels are empty.。
And so sometimes he lights a match and he throws it。
and nothing happens.。
Lights a match, throws it, nothing happens.。
Sometimes he lights a match and he throws it.。
(explosion)。
Salvation happens.。
The light bulb turns on.。
An eternal destiny is changed.。
And he doesn't know which is which.。
He doesn't know which of the barrels。
have gunpowder in them, which of them don't.。
So he's just faithfully sharing the gospel.。
Because we are not in charge of the outcome.。
God's in charge of the outcome.。
We're in charge of obedience.。
You cannot judge obedience by the outcome.。
Obedience looks like sharing.。
That's the victory, that's what we celebrate.。
The conversion, that's up to God.。
You had nothing to do with that.。
You shared faithfully.。
So when you share, we celebrate.。
When someone is converted,。
the angels and the saints, they celebrate.。
You have no idea whose name is written in the book of life.。
So you share with everyone.。
That makes it easy.。
Who do I share with?。
Everyone.。
But I'll be the weird guy.。
Cool, man, you have the biggest house in heaven.。
I don't know.。
How do we share?。
Real quick, how do we share?。
I'm gonna keep it simple because sometimes。
I think the bridge illustration。
and all the illustrations just confuse things.。
Three simple steps, you ready?。
Okay.。
Engage.。
First step, engage.。
When you came in, you were given a top 10 list.。
You write down 10 names of people you wanna engage with.。
10 names that you're committed to praying for faithfully.。
Put that in your Bible, hold on to it,。
look at it every day and just pray。
through those 10 names every day and watch God have fun.。
Watch God have fun with you.。
Have fun answering your prayer.。
Pray faithfully.。
Okay.。
And so you engage.。
What does engaging look like?。
Okay, engaging looks like not for the purpose。
of sharing the gospel, it just looks like loving people.。
And I'm serious about this.。
Like if you're like in the back of your mind,。
like okay, I gotta transition this somehow.。
Hey man, like what's up?。
Like hey, watch the Cowboys.。
Man, did you know you're gonna go to hell。
unless you trust in Jesus?。
(congregation laughing)。
Don't go there, okay?。
What's up, bro?。
I was at Mudsmith yesterday, met Robert.。
What's up, Robert?。
Hey man, how long have you lived in Dallas?。
Eight years, where before Dallas?。
Frisco, oh that's still kinda Dallas, bro.。
(congregation laughing)。
And we're just talking now.。
Where are you from?。
Oh man, I'm from Quero.。
Oh yeah, of course you never heard of it.。
I lived in Waco, then now Dallas.。
Ah man, so how long have you worked here?。
We're just talking, man.。
No big deal, just people, being people, just talking.。
Hey Robert, let me ask you a question.。
You have a faith?。
I've asked that question literally hundreds of times.。
I made sure that was a true statement,。
literally hundreds of times.。
I've gotten the same answer every single time I've asked.。
You ready?。
Hey, do you have a faith?。
A what?。
Every time, no one has ever answered anything but a what?。
They're like, a face?。
Yes, I have a faith.。
No, a faith, a religion, a spirituality, a belief.。
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm Christian.。
Yeah, no, no, I'm atheist.。
No, no, man, I was raised in the church,。
I haven't been in a long time.。
Now we're talking about it, that transition.。
How we got there.。
It was easy, it wasn't hard, it wasn't difficult.。
My palms aren't sweaty or anything.。
Just like, hey man, I just wanna know your story.。
And now I'm asking you about something。
that's important to me, do you have a faith?。
Can I tell you why I asked that and now,。
so the first step is engage, the second step is share.。
Let me show you how I share.。
Hey Robert, here's why I asked that, bro.。
12 years ago I was in a bar,。
not far from where we're at right now,。
just a block away.。
I was upstairs and someone invited me to church.。
I had been to church my whole life,。
I had heard about Jesus,。
but I went in the back of this church,。
I was hungover, I sat in the back row,。
I smelled like smoke from the club from the night before.。
And I heard something for the first time,。
it was the reality that I didn't have to pay for my sins.。
That God loved me so much that he sent his own son,。
Jesus Christ, to pay for my sins.。
And we shouldn't know about Jesus, Robert.。
No one should know about Jesus,。
he was a carpenter from nowhere, Bethlehem.。
You couldn't point to it on a map。
except for Jesus was from there.。
You ever heard of Nazareth?。
You shouldn't know where it is。
except for that's where Jesus lived.。
You know when he was born?。
2014 years ago, in a day that we started counting from.。
Literally our calendar is based on his birth.。
There's some significance about this guy, Jesus, Robert.。
And when I realized that Jesus died for my sins。
and that God raised him from the dead,。
Robert, everything changed in my life.。
I was a dude who loved to party, I loved sex,。
I loved having fun by the world's standards.。
Usually resulted in a hangover of some sorts.。
And God changed me, Robert.。
And so now I'm just committed to sharing that story。
with anyone who will listen, and today that's you.。
Share, engage, share, lastly, invite.。
Hey Robert, what they did up there,。
12 years ago when I was at the Beagle,。
they invited me to church.。
Robert, I wanna invite you to church, man.。
My family would love to pick you up.。
We would love for you to go with us.。
In fact, tomorrow, Tuesday, seven o'clock,。
we're gonna be at this deal called The Porch.。
It's the biggest party in town, Robert.。
God's doing incredible work through young adults,。
20s and 30s just like you.。
But I'd love for you to come.。
I'd love for you to see what he's doing.。
Would you come and hang out with me?。
Engage, share, invite is the last one.。
Invite, will you come with me?。
I'm showing you how God loves you.。
I wanna take you to a group of people。
who would love to show you how God loves you.。
Will you come with me?。
Be a light, engage, share, invite, it even rhymes.。
And so in summary, you have a purpose to show Christ。
to a world that desperately needs him.。
You have a place wherever God has put you。
and you have a people, those around you,。
your family, your neighbors, and your coworkers.。
My team and I, we're waging war on your behalf。
because I know that it's dark out there.。
I will tell you, I've grown to a place。
where I enjoy sharing the gospel.。
No one has ever cussed me out, no one's ever hit me.。
I know our mind goes to the worst things.。
It's gonna be okay.。
God loves you, he's sovereign.。
You know, he's kinda asked you to do this.。
But I know it's dark out there.。
I know there is a lot of evil in the world.。
And you are the soldiers, you are the warriors,。
you are the light that exists to push back the darkness.。
And so for just a second, if we can,。
please don't get up, please don't move around.。
If we just, for a second, can we just feel。
the weight of that darkness?。
I'm gonna bring down the lights.。
If you would just hang tight for just a second,。
it won't be long at all.。
If you're scared of the dark,。
hold someone's hand next to you.。
We're just going to bring down the lights.。
And I want you to know that you're like,。
JP, you don't understand my family, bro.。
It's dark there.。
You want me to share with my neighbors?。
Bro, I live in Deep Ellum, it's dark there.。
You want me to share at work, JP?。
In my cube, you don't understand who I work with.。
It's dark there, to which I say, God has a light.。
He has put a light right where he needs it.。
And there you are, so that people can see.。
And when people begin to see。
that there's something different about you,。
the cool thing about that light is it spreads.。
It spreads.。
It spreads throughout Dallas.。
It spreads throughout Fort Worth.。
And the culture that is the reality that God is,。
that God created, it is preserved.。
And this is your mission, friends.。
This is why you have breath in your lungs.。
This is why your heart beats in your chest.。
This, my friends, is your purpose.。
That you would live for sharing this eternal truth,。
that others would come into the light,。
that the culture of Christianity。
and of Christ would be preserved.。
It would not be lost in your generation, not on our time.。
Can we bring the house lights back?。
(congregation applauding)。
Tonight, we're gonna do something fun in just a moment.。
So if you would not leave as we worship in this last song,。
I'm gonna invite the band, Robbie C,。
and his crew back up here.。
And let me pray for us as we close out here.。
But again, I'll be back in just one moment.。
Oh, Father, we realize that the essence。
of being a Christian is that we share in the same way。
that the essence of being a light is that we shine.。
Oh, Father, would you help us shine?。
Father, we have received power from you,。
from your Holy Spirit in us.。
And so will you use that power for us?。
Would you, through us, help us press forward。
toward our purpose in the place。
that you have entrusted to us,。
with the people that you have entrusted to us?。
God, for your holy name, and for your fame,。
and for your honor, and for your glory, in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
(silence)。
(silence)。
(silence)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
