(phone ringing)。
- You have seven unheard messages.。
- Hey, sorry I haven't texted.。
I'm just not really sure what I'm feeling right now.。
- Hey, yo, Danny!。
Where are you at, bro?。
I'll see you soon, all right?。
- Hey, so I have moved on,。
but I feel like the Lord keeps putting you back。
on my heart for a reason, so please call me back.。
- Hey, bro, hey, I know you're going through it right now,。
but listen, I found another girl at the farmer's market now.。
She's not a farmer, but she is on the market, okay?。
So hit me back, love you, bro.。
- No, I'm sure this is the right number,。
but last night was a mistake.。
I was just hoping we could keep that between us.。
- Hey, just wanted to say,。
I don't think I can make it tonight.。
Yeah, I've just been thinking about us a lot lately,。
and we need to talk.。
(phone ringing)。
- All right, Porsche, how we doing tonight?。
You doing okay?。
It's great to see you.。
Welcome back.。
If it's a return trip to you here,。
we're so grateful that you would be in the room.。
If this is your very first time at the Porsche,。
we're so glad that you are in the room.。
This summer has been wild.。
It's gotten rowdy in this room at times,。
and we're grateful that you would turn up。
and be a part of it.。
God's not just doing something awesome here.。
He's doing something great all over the place.。
He is moving in cities just like ours all across the nation.。
Particularly, we want to shout out。
some of our Porsche Live locations.。
Porsche Live, Greater Lafayette, Fresno, and Scottsdale.。
Hey, before we jump in, I do want to ask,。
if you haven't noticed, it's pretty packed in here.。
We've got people that are still trying to find seats。
outside in the town center and in our overflow.。
And so if you could, if there are seats available to you,。
left or right, would you move into those seats?。
Could we all squeeze in a little bit,。
get cozy with the people to your left and to your right?。
Maybe you'll meet someone this evening, maybe you won't.。
I'm not sure, but this could be a good opportunity。
to see if it's possible and make some room。
for some of our friends.。
That's awesome, thank you so much.。
Well, hey, tonight we are continuing the conversation。
that we started last week in answering the question,。
is dating supposed to be this hard?。
It's a question that many of you are confronted with.。
And so we wanted to step right into it。
and answer it with what God has to say.。
To set up the idea, I remember asking myself that question。
when I first had my initial interaction with love,。
I was but 12 years old.。
And at that time I asked out a girl。
for the very first time in my young life.。
You see, the annual homecoming football game was coming up。
and everybody was taking a date.。
And so not wanting to be left out。
or look different than everybody else,。
I had my eye on my grade school crush。
and I knew this was the perfect moment for me to ask her。
if she wanted to go with me.。
And so not having been in this position before,。
I asked some of my buddies,。
hey, you guys have done it, like help me out.。
And so gleaning all the 12 year old wisdom I could get,。
what I learned in that moment is they would stand。
across the hall in the middle of passing period,。
they would signal to me whenever she came out of her class.。
And then all I had to do was walk up and just simply say,。
hey, do you wanna go to homecoming with me?。
And so we assumed our positions.。
The bell rang, people exit their classes,。
they begin going to their next place.。
And right at the time they give me the signal, go for it,。
man, and I like move from where I am.。
And I turned the corner to coincidentally bump into her。
and we make contact.。
And I look at her and I say,。
hey, do you wanna go to the homecoming football game with me?。
To which she responded, I'm sorry, who are you?。
(congregation laughing)。
Again, I was but just a youth,。
but I remember even thinking at that time,。
this is so much harder than I thought.。
Like no one had told me how to approach a girl。
or how to keep the stakes low。
or how to not come on too strong。
or how to express my feelings.。
And in the same way, so many of us have been unlearned。
in the language and lessons of love。
because no one's ever told us.。
The way that we've learned instead is by trial and error.。
Amen, anybody?。
Trial and error, after error and after error。
and after error and after error.。
You see, you have found yourself。
kind of risking the rejection。
of whether or not they'll leave you on read or not.。
You've seen within yourself this awkward burden。
of having to go into another first date。
and potentially bear the consequence。
of another uncomfortable conversation.。
You've had to guess their intent。
because though they're flirtatious,。
they've never actually clarified their feelings for you.。
You don't know if you're best friends。
or if you're soon to be lovers.。
You have no idea.。
This is the landscape of love that you're a part of.。
It is confusing.。
You see, for so many of us, you've looked at dating。
and found it to be less blissful than you hoped。
and more painful than you expected.。
And there's a good reason for that.。
Your generation is facing the most complicated。
dating dynamic in the history of the world.。
You're welcome.。
You did not ask for it, but it is the hand you've been dealt.。
You see, you live amongst a moment。
where you have to learn not just dating etiquette,。
but online dating etiquette.。
There are shifting gender roles.。
There's an ever evolving relationship structure at play.。
And then we live in an ever increasing。
individualistic society where people are fine。
if they don't find love.。
You see, according to Dr. Michael Rosenfeld,。
professor of sociology at Stanford,。
talking about the considerable impact。
our modern dating moment has had in the lives of people,。
he says, "There are 10 million more single Americans。
"right now than at any other given moment in history."。
10 million.。
And most of them are under the age of 35,。
which makes sense when you think about it.。
That might feel shocking, but if you look at the data,。
it's not surprising because we've seen。
the average age of first marriage has steadily increased。
over the last several years.。
We know that women are on average marrying at 28,。
guys are on average marrying at the age of 30,。
but it's not just that people are waiting longer to marry,。
it's also that divorce rates are skyrocketing。
amongst people that are in their 20s and 30s specifically.。
You see, we're living in a moment。
that the experts are calling a romantic recession,。
that love is on the lam,。
despite the fact that young people just like yourself。
overwhelmingly identify as wanting to be。
in a committed relationship.。
So many even go into the point of anticipating。
tying the knot at some point in the future.。
So how can both of these things be true at the same time?。
How is it that romance can be on the decline。
and yet everybody wants to find love anyways?。
I'll tell you how it's possible.。
We're not very good at dating.。
That's the synopsis.。
That's how we make sense of those two realities.。
We do not know what we're doing,。
so much so that there is an entire television segment。
committed to this reality.。
Like if you've ever watched "Bachelor in Paradise"。
or "Love Island" or "Love is Blind,"。
what is the basic premise of those shows?。
The premise is this.。
They get together a group of people。
that deeply want to find love,。
but are horrible at finding it.。
You see, you see within those shows,。
a group of people that they're waiting for a hotter option。
to walk down the beach.。
They're playing a mind game。
so that way they don't get voted off in some way.。
They're trying to hook up with someone,。
yet not learn their last name。
because they don't want to get too committed too soon.。
You see, they have no idea what they're doing.。
And we watch them for it.。
You're not watching。
because you're anticipating the moment they find love.。
You're watching them。
because you're anticipating the moment they don't.。
And they spiral into an emotional dumpster fire of disaster.。
Like that's what you're waiting for.。
You want the drama.。
That's why we watch these shows.。
And yet while it's easy for us。
in the comfort of our seats to point the finger and laugh,。
look at those people.。
They have no idea what they're doing.。
The truth of the matter is,。
we don't know what we're doing either.。
This moment is a difficult moment.。
We make dating harder than it has to be.。
And so here's my hope.。
My hope is to make it easy or easier。
over the course of our evening.。
You see, I want to tell you the do's and the don'ts of dating。
because when you follow them,。
these principles that God has given us,。
the entire process, it gets so much easier.。
And these principles,。
they're not just some rules for you to know.。
That way you can enter them like a cheat code。
and out pops a spouse at the end of it.。
You see, a lot of dating damage has been done。
in the name of a Christian formula。
where X plus Y equals soulmate.。
That's not my hope.。
I'm not trying to give you a scientific method.。
Dating is not science.。
Dating is art.。
Yes, there are colors you must use,。
but you must also learn from the master artist himself.。
You must listen to God。
for he has built these principles。
to point to a greater picture,。
a picture of the love that he has for his people.。
And so without further ado,。
we're going to get into these principles.。
Last week, we went through four of them.。
I do not have time to unpack those four.。
If you're interested, they're on the screen behind me.。
You can also go and watch the message。
or listen to the audio,。
but I just want to dive straight into the fifth principle。
that you need if you want to make your dating easier.。
So here it is, the fifth principle that you need.。
Don't be isolated.。
Do be inclusive.。
Don't be isolated, but be inclusive.。
You see, dating is not a static state of commitment.。
It is a dynamic process of assessment,。
but too often we perform that assessment all by ourself.。
So last year, I bought a 1991 Ford F-150,。
which is a dream to me,。
but the reality is I didn't know anything。
about 35-year-old vehicles.。
And so to help me in the purchasing process,。
I made sure to schedule an appointment with a mechanic.。
Like it wasn't enough for me to just walk up,。
pop the hood, and take a look and say,。
"Yeah, this thing looks great."。
No, I knew that I needed professional help.。
And so I took the truck to this mechanic。
and he didn't just pop the hood and look at it。
and say, "Yeah, man, it looks great."。
Instead, he took that truck and he put it on a lift。
and he raised it to the sky。
so that we could walk underneath it。
and we can inspect every square inch of the thing。
because he wanted to help me。
know that it was worthy of purchasing,。
that the value was present.。
You see, I needed someone else's help。
to make a good decision.。
And yet so many of us, we settle in the world of dating。
for making the assessment on our own.。
Well, he passes the eye test for me.。
Have you seen those arms?。
That looks good.。
You know, like that's often the way that we process。
whether or not we're going to get in a relationship。
with someone or not.。
And yet that's not the Bible's recommendation.。
The Bible says in Proverbs 11, 14,。
"Where there is no guidance, a people falls,。
but in an abundance of counselors, there is safety."。
In Proverbs 15, 22, "Without counsel, plans fail,。
but with many advisors, they succeed."。
You see, isolation makes for poor evaluation.。
Isolation makes for poor evaluation.。
There's a reason we say, "You're lost in your fields."。
What are we communicating when we say that?。
We're saying, "You're crushing so hard。
that you're just seeing what you want to see,。
but your friends will see what you need to see."。
You see, some of you, you're in a relationship。
where your community has raised a red flag。
because, man, he is sketchy.。
Like he never shows up when he says he's going to show up.。
He is never arriving when he says he's going to arrive.。
Or they've looked at you and said,。
"Man, she's pretty controlling.。
Like, have you thought about that?。
It seems like she always wants to know where you are。
and what you're doing."。
They have raised red flags.。
And yet too often we look at them and go,。
"But you don't know him or her the way that I do."。
Listen, it is difficult to see red flags。
when you have on rose-colored glasses.。
You need help.。
You need people to speak the truth to you in love.。
In the medieval ages,。
the Anglican church liturgized the phrase,。
"Speak now or forever hold your peace."。
And the reason they did。
is they were trying to provide protection。
from people within their community。
being forcefully coerced into an unwanted marriage.。
It was a method for their community to protect their own.。
And a similar premise must be true in our day.。
You see, the more community you include,。
the more safety you invite.。
The more community you include, the more safety you invite.。
So when Brooke and I, my wife, started dating in college,。
I remember my best friend at the time。
coming to me and saying,。
"Hey man, I'd love to tag along."。
On a date?。
Yes, on a date.。
As a third wheel?。
Sure, as a third wheel.。
Why did he wanna go on a date with us?。
Not because he wanted to see Frozen.。
He came on that date with us。
because he wanted to get to know Brooke.。
He wanted to see the two of us interact.。
He wanted to know, man, is it easy for y'all。
when you're together?。
Does she fit the form of the kind of godly woman。
that you've told me you want?。
Is there strife, conflict early in your relationship?。
Do y'all move through things pretty naturally?。
He wanted to evaluate her for my benefit.。
And it's a testament to my bride.。
She was delighted to have him come.。
She was so eager to meet somebody from my world,。
see someone that had a massive voice。
and influence in my life.。
She wanted to become familiar with the people。
that I was a part of.。
You see, when Brooke and I were dating,。
we wanted godly people to watch us。
and help us because we needed to be watched。
and we needed to be helped.。
We dated not just in the context of community,。
but inclusive of our community.。
It wasn't just that we were content having people around.。
No, we wanted people to be involved.。
There's a major difference in those things.。
You see, if you're in a relationship with someone。
that's trying to isolate you from your friends。
or your family, or they get annoyed。
whenever you spend time with your community,。
or they always wanna do things with you in private,。
they're diametrically opposed to ever going out in public,。
then you need to get away from that person.。
God saved us into community.。
His people see the value of it.。
And we do not try to isolate ourselves away。
from that which God has saved us into.。
You need this.。
You need a community.。
And not just a community that consists of good friends.。
Hear me, you need a community that consists of godly guides.。
What's the difference in those two things?。
Friends make for good company,。
but guides give good direction.。
You need people in your life。
that will not simply tell you what you wanna hear,。
but will tell you what you need to hear.。
You need people that are really two things,。
people that are wise and loving,。
like they're wise enough to know what you need。
and they are loving enough to tell you what you need.。
I'm a firm believer in this.。
I'll step away from the book.。
This is just my personal recommendation.。
I think that you should imbue people within your community。
that are identified as wise and loving。
with not only a voice in your relationship,。
but a vote in your relationship.。
So if they look at you and the majority of them say,。
"This thing looks toxic," then you end it.。
If the majority of them say,。
"Man, we think you should go out with this person,"。
then you should go on at least one date with that person.。
Why?。
Because these are people that they are wise in God's word,。
they love your heart,。
and you can trust them with your relationship.。
The second thing that you need in godly guides。
is you need people that have walked with God longer than you.。
There's a saying,。
"The best teacher isn't personal experience,。
"it's someone else's."。
And I agree with that.。
I think that saying is spot on.。
And the apostle Paul says he agrees as well.。
In Titus 2, he gives specific instruction。
to older men and women。
about investing in the lives of younger men and women.。
But Kylan, I don't know any older men.。
Then find some.。
They're not hard to point out.。
They're pretty obvious by way of their appearance.。
It's not difficult to see people that are older than you.。
I remember when I was in college,。
I wanted, I was absent anybody in my life。
that was older and wiser than myself.。
Everyone was my age.。
It was the blind leading the blind.。
So I wanted someone to speak into my world.。
And so what I did is I remember going to church。
and seeing a guy who I did not know personally,。
but he had an amazing reputation.。
And I admired him from afar.。
I admired the way he loved his wife。
and he treated his kids and he served in his church。
and he somehow all at the same time led within his company.。
This was the kind of guy that I wanted to learn from.。
And so I went up to him and you know what I said?。
I admire you for these following reasons.。
Can I take you to lunch and ask you some questions?。
He said, yes.。
Why?。
Because godly guides are looking for people。
to give guidance to.。
So this is not hard.。
If you wanna know what to do,。
ask humbly, buy them lunch,。
prep questions, listen more than you speak。
and then thank them for their time.。
Don't walk in and load them down with,。
hey, will you be my mentor?。
I don't recommend you do that in a dating relationship.。
Will you be my wife?。
That's not gonna go well either.。
It's synonymous in terms of its intensity.。
Don't do that.。
Walk up and say, hey, I would love to get time with you.。
Would you be open for that?。
Here's the following reasons.。
I'll buy lunch, I'll prep questions.。
I will make sure to listen and take notes。
and then I will be so grateful for the hour you carve.。
That's what you have to do.。
Dating is hard when you do it alone,。
but you're not meant to.。
That's not God's design.。
And the beauty of it is that community actually teaches us。
how we're supposed to treat our partner,。
which brings us to our sixth principle.。
Don't be critical.。
Do be kind.。
Don't be critical, but be kind.。
Proverbs 19, 22a, ladies, this is what you want.。
What is desirable in a man is his kindness, his kindness,。
which feels obvious.。
Yes, yes, I know, Kylan,。
I'm supposed to like the nice guys.。
I need to give them a shot.。
This is so much bigger than that.。
I'm not just trying to tell you to find a Hallmark hubby。
that you can take home for the holidays。
and make your parents happy.。
That's not what this is about。
because that's not what the Bible's communicating.。
The Bible is teaching something so much more serious。
in this moment.。
You see, in the New Testament,。
the authors of every New Testament letter,。
they combine to pull together 50 plus one another statements。
and those statements tell us。
how we're meant to treat one another.。
Why are there 50 plus?。
Because it's not so obvious how we should treat one another.。
We're not very good at it.。
And so what we see is they unpack 50 plus。
one another statements.。
And while we don't have time to walk through all 50 plus,。
what we can do is we can break them down。
into the buckets they belong。
because those 50 plus statements。
belong in four different categories.。
So that way you understand what kindness looks like。
as it's expressed in your dating relationship.。
The first thing is that kindness is peaceable.。
Kindness is peaceable.。
You see, more than one third of the one another statements。
are about pursuing peace and maintaining unity.。
Second Corinthians 13 11 by the apostle Paul says,。
"Finally, brothers, rejoice, aim for restoration,。
comfort one another, agree with one another,。
live in peace and the God of love and peace。
will be with you."。
Ephesians 4 1 and 3 says,。
"I, therefore a prisoner for the Lord,。
urge you walk in a manner worthy of the calling。
to which you've been called."。
How do I do that?。
"With all humility and gentleness,。
with patience, bearing with one another in love,。
eager to maintain the unity of the spirit。
in the bond of peace."。
What are these passages saying?。
You are going to face conflict in life。
and you're gonna face conflict in dating.。
It's coming for you.。
When you are in close emotional proximity to another person,。
they are gonna say something that gets on your nerves.。
They're gonna do something。
that you can't even begin to explain.。
They're going to forget something that drives you nuts.。
And then how they respond whenever that conflict comes,。
it tells you a lot about their character,。
which is what you're trying to figure out.。
Guys, women are sophisticated by design and you are not.。
And so you're going to mess up。
and you're not even going to understand why.。
You're not even gonna know what you did.。
And yet in that moment,。
the right response is not to get defensive,。
but I didn't mean to hurt her feelings,。
but you did hurt her feelings.。
And so you need to understand what did I do。
that resulted in your feelings being hurt?。
Because I don't want that to happen anymore.。
And so here's what you do.。
She's gonna use her words。
and you're gonna use your ears。
and you're gonna listen closely。
and then you're gonna own as much of it as you can.。
I tell couples whenever I perform their wedding ceremonies,。
"Hey, marriage is not 50/50, it is 100/100.。
I am not approaching you today saying,。
I'm gonna give you my half so long as you give me yours.。
No, I'm 7'4" and I'm giving you the whole 100.。
I'm giving you everything I have.。
Everything I offer you today。
is not conditioned upon what you do at all."。
Men, that's how you approach your woman in conflict.。
Ladies, they don't know what you're thinking.。
So when you think, "He would if he wanted,"。
he doesn't even know what you might possibly want of him.。
(congregation laughing)。
And so what you must do is you must seek to understand.。
You must use small words.。
And then you need to be committed to re-explaining yourself。
'cause he's going to need you to do it.。
(congregation laughing)。
Hear me, if you have the right man,。
he is not just willing to improve, he's wanting to improve.。
That's the right man, he wants to.。
And so when you come to him and if you have some beef,。
some issue with what he's done, don't accuse his character.。
Well, you just never care about me.。
Oh my, you're just not full of grace.。
I'm always seeking peace with you,。
but you're never seeking peace with me.。
Don't do that.。
Don't make an accusation against his character.。
Make an observation about his behavior.。
What did he do that made you feel this way?。
Because he can address that, he can fix his behavior.。
Don't write him off before you even give him the chance.。
If you want to be with someone that is peaceable,。
then you're looking for someone that is humble enough。
to admit they're wrong.。
And catch me, they're humble enough to admit they're wrong,。
not because they love you, but because they love Jesus。
and they don't want to grieve his heart.。
That's what you want.。
That's what someone who's peaceable looks like.。
The second category for kindness is kindness is considerate.。
It's considerate.。
This makes up another third of the one another statements。
that we get in the New Testament.。
John 13, 34 says, "A new commandment I give to you。
that you love one another, just as I've loved you,。
so also are you to love one another."。
First Peter 4, 8, "Above all,。
keep loving one another earnestly,。
since love covers a multitude of sins."。
That's the kind of person you want to date.。
You want to date someone that is considerate。
of what it looks like to love you,。
which absolutely rails against the standards of today.。
We live in a moment right now。
where people want to keep their options open,。
where they'll string each other along,。
where they're adopting open forms of relationship。
because then they are not having。
to make any kind of commitment.。
We live in a commitment-averse culture.。
And yet what we hear from this。
is that is not considered of someone else,。
it is considered of themself.。
You don't want to be with someone like that.。
You don't want someone that considers themself.。
You want someone that is carefully considering you instead.。
This may sound really silly.。
When Brooke and I first started dating,。
I made a commitment that I was not going to like。
another girl's photo on Instagram the entire time,。
which feels crazy.。
You're like, "Did she put you up to that?"。
No, I chose to do that.。
Why?。
Because I didn't want to run the risk。
of her seeing my name like in some other girl's picture.。
That's dumb.。
That's not worth it.。
Even if we're friends,。
and there's a totally plausible reason for why I would do it,。
I'm not willing to risk my relationship with her.。
I want to make sure everything I do。
is in consideration of her.。
I wanted to prove you don't need to worry about me,。
where my eyes are going, who it is I'm liking,。
who I might be texting on the side.。
You never have to worry about me。
'cause I'm considerate of you.。
If your boyfriend or girlfriend,。
if they start acting all weird。
when you grab their phone from them,。
or if they can't seem to commit to your plans。
for the weekend because you're with your family。
and they don't really love being around them,。
or if they're vague about what their weekend events。
look like with the boys or the girls,。
then that's a cause for concern.。
That's not a sign of consideration.。
You see, we're looking for someone who looks like Christ.。
What does Christ look like?。
He was considerate of you at great cost to himself,。
even to the point of death on the cross.。
Third category, we gotta go.。
Kindness is encouraging.。
It's encouraging.。
This comprises about 18 to 20% of the statements.。
Hebrews 10, 24, 25 says, "And let us consider,"。
there's that word,。
"how to stir one another up to love and good works,。
not neglecting to meet together,。
as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another,。
and all the more as you see the day drawing near."。
You see, to encourage literally means。
to put courage into another person.。
You don't want a relationship that tears you down.。
You want a relationship that builds you up.。
And that sounds really nice.。
And yet, listen to me,。
if he is questioning something about you。
that is outside the realm of your power to control,。
he's not building you up, he's tearing you down.。
So if he gets onto you about your physical appearance,。
or he's talking bad about your personality,。
or whatever it may be,。
that's not someone that's wanting to encourage you.。
That's someone that's wanting to invalidate you.。
If she is constantly comparing you。
to all of her boyfriends, all of her girlfriends,。
boyfriends, then that's not someone。
you wanna be compared to.。
You don't necessarily want to link up。
with someone that makes a big deal。
out of a really small deal.。
If you're perpetually in trouble over senseless things,。
then you should be concerned.。
You want someone that is encouraging.。
Proverbs 21, nine says,。
"It is better to live in a corner of the housetop。
than in a house shared with a quarrelsome wife."。
AKA, if you're around a nagging Nancy,。
it's like being waterboarded.。
You don't want that.。
Your relationship should be marked by encouragement.。
It should put courage into you.。
Courage into you to not just be a good boyfriend。
or girlfriend, but courage into you to be。
all that God has made you to be.。
To live into the body, live into the personality,。
live into the design that he has perfectly imbued you with.。
That's what he wants.。
And then the fourth category is kindness is humble.。
That's like the last 15% or so.。
Galatians 5, 13 says,。
"For you were called to freedom, brothers.。
Only don't use your freedom as an opportunity。
for the flesh, but through love, serve one another."。
Philippians 2, three through four says,。
"Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit,。
but in humility count others more significant than yourself.。
Let each of you look not only to his own interests,。
but also to the interests of others."。
See, put simply, your relationship should be marked。
by humility.。
But where do I find that kind of person, Kylan?。
Like how do I know if they're actually humble。
or if they're just making a really good first impression?。
That's a great question to ask。
because they should be putting their best foot forward.。
Do you wanna know where you can look。
for a genuinely humble person?。
You look for them where they're not solely humble for you.。
They are humble without you.。
You look for them in places where they serve.。
That's why I tell people, it's not the reason you should,。
but if you begin to serve,。
that's a good place to look for her or him.。
I remember when I worked in college ministry,。
we had team leaders,。
the very best of the volunteers that we had。
that always seemed to crush on one another,。
even though they weren't supposed to.。
And the reason why they would crush on one another。
is because they looked at each other。
and they saw you are giving so much of yourself。
for the benefit of other people, and that is attractive.。
I remember when Brooke and I first met,。
this is what she was doing。
amongst a group of people in our business organization.。
She was playing volleyball.。
We were all playing volleyball。
and she was showing up to play 'cause she's competitive,。
but she was also showing up because she's kind.。
And she wanted to get to know people.。
She wanted to ask them their stories.。
She wanted to make a personal investment.。
She didn't want or she didn't need anything from them,。
validation, approval, but she wanted everything for them.。
She wanted them to know Jesus.。
And I sat there and I watched that,。
and that was so attractive.。
It was driving me crazy, girl.。
I need to spend time with you.。
Like that was the reaction。
as I saw her being humble to other people.。
You see, listen, humility is hot.。
It is, it looks good on people.。
And so you should think about looking for it。
in him or her yourself.。
You want someone humble.。
You want someone, catch me,。
that observably lives for the benefit of other people。
because Christ observably died for the benefit of you.。
That's what you want.。
That's what true humility looks like.。
I will give of myself for the benefit of another,。
which brings us to our seventh principle.。
Don't be naive.。
Do be vigilant.。
You be vigilant.。
We're gonna give an entire talk。
committed to this specific topic,。
what sex looks like in the lives of young adults.。
And so I'm gonna resist the temptation。
to share more right now than I should,。
but we do need to answer the question as we consider,。
I mean, what does it look like for us。
to navigate dating in an easier way?。
We have to evaluate what does it look like。
for purity to be in play?。
The Bible has a lot to say about this.。
Just a couple of verses.。
Proverbs 6.32, he who commits adultery lacks sense.。
He who does it destroys himself.。
First Corinthians 6.18 says, flee from sexual immorality.。
Every other sin a person commits is outside the body,。
but the sexually immoral person sins against his own body.。
You see, sexual compromise outside of God's design。
is dangerous, and that's because sex is so powerful.。
You see, when you have sex with another person,。
your brain releases dopamine,。
which activates the reward system of your brain,。
and it also releases oxytocin,。
which is the love hormone, as people know it for,。
which is especially powerful when it comes to mate bonding.。
What happens when you have sex with another person。
is you are growing attached to them,。
not just in a casual way, in a chemical way.。
And as you do it in greater and greater degrees。
of frequency, that attachment becomes addiction.。
What a beautiful gift from God。
when within the confines of his design,。
a loving marriage between two people。
where there is total safety,。
that that bond will never be broken,。
and so we can pour gas on the fire.。
But when we take it outside of its intended place,。
it can become disastrous.。
Because when you break up with someone,。
you not only lose your partner,。
you lose a part of yourself.。
Sex is so powerful.。
It is so good.。
Like, it's something worth waiting for.。
It's something worth valuing,。
in the same way that Aladdin in the Cave of Wonders。
had to resist every other temptation and jewel。
and have only eyes for the lamp.。
So you are meant to move through your relationship。
with eyes for that which is most prized of all, purity.。
I know that sounds so Christian-y,。
and yet it's so good.。
God is trying to save you from something。
that can irreparably hurt you in the wrong context.。
And so we must agree with what Paul says。
in the Book of Romans.。
We should not make provision for the flesh。
to gratify its desires,。
meaning we don't invite unnecessary temptation。
into our life.。
Like, you don't go into her room.。
You don't stay at his apartment.。
You definitely don't turn the lights down low,。
wait past 11 p.m. 'cause nothing good happens then.。
Don't you dare turn on the R&B,。
because you know those things are gonna put you。
in a position where you're ultimately tempted。
beyond your capacity.。
You set your boundaries early.。
You honor them always.。
And you frequently revisit them.。
I think I've said this before,。
possibly in an equipping night,。
but I will charge my son with this.。
Nothing below the chin, nothing horizontal,。
nothing in the dark,。
and nothing lasts longer than five seconds.。
You obey these rules from me, my son,。
and you will be safe.。
Those are good boundaries if you're looking for some.。
Proverbs 25, 28 says, "A man without self-control。
"is like a city broken into and left without walls."。
Would you move into a city that's been pillaged。
of all its resources, plundered and left in ruin?。
Would you do that?。
Then why are you moving in with somebody,。
some guy, some girl, that does not have self-control either?。
Like, if your boyfriend is convinced you。
that he just needs a sexual outlet,。
what you need to be convinced of is he needs self-control.。
Like, if he's pushing you to send him nudes,。
if he's constantly pushing the boundaries。
of the parameters that y'all have concocted together,。
if he's constantly guilting you。
because you just won't help him,。
then listen, you're not the one who needs help.。
He is the one that needs help.。
Jesus was single and sinless his entire life.。
And so if Jesus can do that for 33 years of his life,。
your man can do that。
until he either chooses to propose to you。
or he chooses to move on.。
And if he doesn't do either of those,。
then you need to probably move on.。
You want a man that's not mastered by his flesh.。
You want a man that has mastered his flesh.。
You want someone that for the sake of honoring God。
and honoring you will go to war against that。
which wants to destroy the very ones he loves.。
That's what you want.。
Now for fear of the ladies。
thinking they're getting off the hook,。
let me speak to you for a moment.。
In the book of Proverbs,。
we meet a character by the title of the adulterous woman.。
And what you know is that there are three primary。
descriptors of this lady.。
She has smooth speech,。
a seductive appearance,。
and a cold conscience.。
And so ladies, you be careful。
in the way that you speak to men.。
You be considerate of it.。
Don't sex them just because it makes you feel secure.。
It's nice to be liked.。
You actually feel wanted.。
Don't do that.。
Don't flirt with them just because,。
man, I like having someone on the hook.。
It gives me some sense of validation.。
You be careful with the way you speak.。
So much has said about modesty in the church。
and that you need to be careful how you dress.。
I am blown away by the things。
that I see girls wear in the gym.。
Not just because that can't be possibly comfortable。
to lift in, but because it's so sad.。
It's a living testament to the fact。
that they want the affirmation and approval of a man。
when they have a God that wants to give them。
affirmation and approval already.。
The curves of your body are not meant for us.。
They are meant for your husband.。
So save them for him.。
And lastly,。
if you're here and you're prone to preying on innocent men。
because there's something empowering about showing them。
the sexual ropes as opposed to always being shown yourself,。
then you be careful because that is the fast road。
to deadening your conscience before God.。
Don't do that.。
Now, as I say all of this,。
here's what I know happens in the room.。
Like I can feel the cloud of guilt。
that hangs over some of you。
because you've done some of this.。
You've done worse than this.。
Let me just say, not as a preacher at the porch,。
but hopefully a pastor to you,。
I have done things too.。
We do not regard people in light of what they've done.。
We regard people in light of how far they've come.。
That's what it means to have the grace of Jesus for someone.。
And so if you're here and you're like, man,。
when they learn what I've done,。
when they see the places I've been,。
when I have to unpack my body count at some point,。
they're gonna run out.。
If they run out, then good riddance to them.。
They don't know the love of God.。
They don't know the grace of Jesus,。
which extends to the very worst of you.。
You're not too far gone.。
Christ, he looks at the adulterous woman and he says,。
has no one condemned you?。
Then do not condemn yourself。
for what I have not condemned you of.。
He says you're free.。
He denied himself so that you might be beloved.。
And now you get to deny yourself from this day forward。
for the sake of your beloved.。
And then the last principle I'll give you。
is don't be reckless.。
Do be respectful.。
Romans 12.10 says, love one another with brotherly affection。
which can also be interpreted as respect.。
Outdo one another in showing honor.。
Matthew 7.12 says, so whatever you wish。
that others would do to you, do also to them。
for this is the law and the prophets.。
I'll be quick because I know that we're coming。
to the end of this thing.。
When I was preparing this message,。
I found it so fascinating.。
I was doing a little bit of research on toxic relationships。
and what I found is that all toxic relationships。
early in their existence share the same primary indicator.。
You wanna know what it is?。
A lack of respect between one or both parties.。
You see, most if not all unhealthy relationships,。
they are formed under the failure。
of recognizing the other person's value.。
And every person has value。
because they have been made in God's image.。
They have a God-given dignity.。
And so in relationship, we should recognize that。
and treat one another in kind.。
You see, in unhealthy relationships,。
instead of being marked by mutual admiration。
for one another, what you often see。
is a gradual manipulation of the other。
where one person uses the other。
to get from them what they want.。
I was thinking about this as I stood over there。
before coming on the stage, looking at this room。
and reeling with the statistics。
that one in four girls before the age of 18。
and one in six guys before the age of 18。
have been sexually abused.。
That is a testament to the fact。
that we live in a world so comfortable。
and accommodating to unhealthy relationships。
and yet Christ, he makes no space。
for such relationships to exist.。
He does not want us to have toxic relationships。
with one another.。
No, he wants us to have redemptive relationships。
with one another where we consider one another。
rightly, we treat one another with respect.。
And the reason we can do that is because we know。
where an unhealthy relationship will look at someone else。
and they will claim some sense of identity over them.。
We know, under God, until you're married,。
that person, your boyfriend, your girlfriend,。
whatever title you wanna put on your relationship,。
that person is not yours.。
They are God's and also they will be somebody's.。
And so as a result, you should treat them with respect.。
I'll end with this.。
When Brooke and I got to the end of our relationship,。
by that time, I had made a bunch of mistakes。
over the course of my dating history.。
And yet when we met in college,。
having learned some of these principles。
through spiritual mentors,。
we made a commitment to one another.。
We wanna do this thing right.。
And I remember the day that I went to her father。
to ask his blessing for her hand in marriage,。
I could do so with a guilt-free conscience。
because we did it.。
We did it right.。
Now, to be very clear, we did it imperfectly.。
And yet we had entrusted ourselves。
over the course of our relationship to a God。
that had done all of this perfectly himself.。
You see, in Jesus, when we were isolated, he was inclusive.。
He looked upon a people that did not want him。
and he said, "I will give myself for your sake。
"to bring you into my family.。
"I want you to be with my people。
"associated amongst the brothers and sisters。
"in God's name."。
When we were critical, we see in Christ one who was kind,。
one that sought us even when we didn't deserve it.。
He moved towards us with a kind of steadfast and loyal love。
that said, "I will go any length to get them.。
"It doesn't matter what they've done.。
"It doesn't matter how far they've fallen.。
"It doesn't matter the gravest, darkest secret。
"in their past, I will lay my life down for them。
"and I will seek them at every cost。
"because I am kind to them.。
"They don't deserve my kindness,。
"but I will lavish upon them a kindness。
"that they have not known, that once they know it,。
"they might love me and live in light of it。
"the rest of their days."。
We see in Jesus that when we were naive,。
wayward, wandering in our sin, he was vigilant.。
He gave no ground.。
He stood right where we meant to stand.。
He endured our punishment against our sin。
by absorbing God's wrath upon our cross。
because he wanted to fight for the one whom he loved.。
That's our God.。
That's your king.。
That's your husband.。
He's one who says, "I will be vigilant in their place.。
"I will fight away that which seeks to destroy。
"the ones whom I love.。
"I will do so at the greatest cost."。
And then we see in Jesus that while we were reckless,。
he was respectful in that he honored God。
and he fulfilled the purposes for which he was sent.。
And he has honored you in that when you did not deserve it,。
were not worthy of it,。
he lavishes love upon you anyways.。
This is the love of God.。
If you want to make dating easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
if you want to make your life easier,。
