James is made up of 108 verses. 54 of them are imperatives. An imperative is a command.。
That Jesus was not just his half-brother, he was his Lord.。
[Applause]。
Yeah. If we haven't met, I'm the guy that used to be here, I used to carry out David's podium.。
I want to start by just telling you how the porch has changed since I've left.。
It's gotten better in just about every way, man. I'm so humbled. I'm so humbled to be with you.。
Let me start with a confession before I even dive in to the Scripture.。
I love when you guys yell. I love when you yell for me.。
Truly, there's something in my heart that is not good that loves that.。
The last thing that I want to do tonight is distract you from Jesus.。
That's both completely wholeheartedly true, and then there's a part of it that's not true.。
Because there's the part that wants you to love me. That's not just preacher-speak, that's not just talk.。
Honestly, I was worshipping here as they were leading, and there's a weirdness to be back.。
I'm just like, "Oh God, I love this so much, and I'm not sure that's good.。
I want it to be good, but I love it for you, and I love the way you're moving."。
So pray for me, pray for my heart, and pray mostly that I would not distract you from Jesus.。
I hate waiting. So that's my second confession. I hate waiting on anything.。
Anybody else hate waiting? What do you hate waiting for?。
Food, traffic, traffic. I miss relationships in Dallas. I do not miss the traffic in Dallas.。
But then if you're driving down 35th and Waco, you'll be waiting there too at times.。
What else do you hate waiting on? For him to propose. Is he here?。
Is he here because we could try to pressure him into that right now.。
So I don't know where you're watching from. I know there's like 18 campuses around the world.。
Maybe you're in a living room, maybe you're gathered in some other city.。
But I'm sure you hate waiting too. There's all kinds of things that I hate waiting for.。
I hate going on YouTube to watch something, and then they give me this ad,。
and I have to wait three seconds to skip the ad. But sometimes they won't let me skip the ad.。
Like I got to watch the whole commercial, like it's 2010, you know.。
It's like I don't understand there's these different things.。
I hate waiting for the line in the grocery store.。
So I play this game where I'll go all the way down to see the aisles,。
to see who has the fewest stuff so that I don't wait.。
And if I'm getting in the express lane, what I do is I start counting how many things they have in front of me.。
Because if it's over, I judge them. And I'm angry that they made me late.。
Like I do not like waiting. I hate for the traffic. You guys said that.。
But then there's also the stoplights. And it's like I'm trying to get somewhere,。
and I hit the stoplight. So I play this game there too,。
where I look at the cars in the lanes, and I try to discern which one's faster.。
And I'll get in behind. Anybody else do this?。
Okay. Yeah. And I try to get in.。
And you know, if one lane has three cars and one lane has two, like I'm certainly going to get behind.。
So I mean, I try to pull in front of them. I do this maneuver.。
I've been practicing my whole life since I was 16 for it.。
But I just don't like waiting. So you can imagine when COVID hit.。
And I know we're sick of talking about COVID. I get it. We're tired of talking about it.。
But when it hit, it was really hard on me.。
Okay. Especially when we had to quarantine. I'm an Enneagram 7 extrovert.。
I want to go. I see you, dude. I see you. I know.。
And so I'm sitting there one day, and I'm just hating life.。
I'm like, God, is this a commercial for hell? You know?。
And this deal comes across my laptop. And it's a travel deal to Mexico.。
And so I'm like, is this a gift? You know?。
And so I book it without talking to my wife, without even looking at the calendar.。
Because here's why. Because it was a 24-hour. You could cancel in 24 hours.。
So I'm like, I'll book it. I'll go home. I'll pretend like it's a gift for her.。
And then if she doesn't like the gift, I'll say, don't worry, I can return it. Right?。
And she didn't like the gift. And so I went back to cancel it.。
But it said that I had to call to cancel.。
So I called Orbitz, or a company who should remain nameless.。
And they put me on hold.。
And so I waited. I waited for an hour.。
And then I had to hang up.。
So then I called them back that night at 6 p.m.。
And they put me on hold.。
And then I eventually talked to somebody.。
And she said, hey, you can't cancel because you're outside your 24-hour window.。
I said, I'm an hour outside of my 24-hour window because you put me on hold for three hours.。
And I said, I need to talk to a manager.。
They said, well, the manager won't be in for a couple hours.。
I said, that's okay. I'll wait. I'm used to it.。
Guess how long I was on hold for?。
Three hours? Four hours?。
That's a lot. Right? That's a long time. Four hours.。
Ain't nobody got time for that.。
Nine hours! I was on hold for nine hours.。
Now I know you think, oh, pastors don't do anything. You've got all this time.。
No, no. From 6 p.m. to 3 a.m. I sat on -- I'm not going to give up.。
You're past the point of no return, right, at that point.。
I'm like, no, I'm going to stay on hold until we figure this thing out.。
And it paid off because eventually I escalated to the owner of Orbitz.。
And they gave me -- true story, true story -- they gave me $900 cash for waiting on hold.。
I was like, I'll take it. I know, it's a crazy story, right?。
But I don't like waiting. And I know that you're here tonight,。
and some of you feel like that's trivial because you're waiting for something way bigger than that.。
Maybe for him to propose.。
You're waiting for marriage. Okay?。
Maybe you're waiting to have sex.。
Maybe you've gone to God with something and you feel like he put you on hold.。
And you're just waiting. You're like, Lord, when are you going to answer this prayer?。
Right? And God, don't you see what's happening in the world?。
It's getting out of control. So like, Jesus, if you want to come back, come on back.。
I'm so tired of waiting. Maybe you're waiting for your parents to reconcile.。
Maybe you're waiting for someone to come and say, hey, I'm really sorry for what I did to you.。
Let me just ask you. And you don't have to answer out loud this time.。
But I do want you to answer. What are you waiting for?。
What's the biggest angst of waiting that you have right now?。
I want everybody to answer. Think of it in your head. What is it?。
What do you feel like God's slow on?。
Let me give you just a second to think about that.。
The greatest angst in your heart, the biggest thing that you're waiting for, whether you realize it or not,。
is for Jesus to come back. And I know that feels like a Jesus juke.。
Like, I get it. You're like, no, that really wasn't my answer.。
It really was for him to propose. But in that moment, everything is resolved and there's nothing else you're waiting for.。
There is no conversation with God. Why didn't you let me get married?。
Why didn't you let me have sex? Why didn't you bring him back to say I'm sorry?。
Why did you do that to me? No, no, no. In that moment, when you're face to face with the creator of the heavens and the earth,。
everything in resolve, there is no angst left in your heart.。
And so that is the thing that you're waiting for.。
So in this series, we're moving through the book of James. We're in chapter five.。
If you want to turn there with me, we call this the full truth from the half brother, which is a brilliant name.。
Last week, Josh did a great job taking us through verses one through six in chapter five.。
We got to hear rodeo stories from the past. You will hear no rodeo stories tonight.。
I have none. As we look at this text, this section,。
I want to talk about how we wait for resolution as Christians.。
We want God to fix all this, all the broken things that we say, all the broken things that we see in the world.。
And the answer to the question, the points that I'm going to put before you is we wait with patience.。
We wait with hope and we wait with integrity. That's what the Holy Spirit is going to say through James.。
James is Jesus's half brother. This is the first epistle that shows up in the New Testament,。
meaning it was written earliest about 45 A.D. It's known as the New Testament book of Proverbs or book of wisdom.。
It's also known as a commentary on the Sermon on the Mount. James, his half brother, Jesus, gave a sermon.。
And he wrote this commentary to that. And so this is where we've been.。
And I'll just start in verse seven. Be patient. Underline that if you have a pen. Patient.。
Be patient then, brothers and sisters, until the Lord's coming. See how the farmer waits for the land to yield its valuable crop.。
Patiently waiting for the autumn and spring rains. You too, be patient. Underline that word patient.。
And stand firm because the Lord's coming is near. Don't grumble against one another, brothers and sisters, or you will be judged.。
The judge is standing at the door. And it has everyone's favorite illustration baked in.。
You know, the one about farming, because we're all farmers and we do horse stuff and that kind of thing.。
And so, yeah, shout out. And so, I know we don't know much about farming,。
but in this day, when this was written in an agrarian culture, you would plant the seed.。
You would plow the field. You would plant the seed. You would wait. You would pray for rain.。
You would wait for the crop to grow so that you could harvest the crop.。
There was a lot of doing and a lot of waiting. And there was a part that you were responsible for.。
And then there was a part that was absolutely and completely out of your control,。
which is a great metaphor for us to walk in faithfulness. We take care of faithfulness.。
The bullseye, the goal for our lives is to be faithful and let God be God because we're not God.。
Right. We can't do what is out of our control. And the word that is repeated there is what?。
It's patience. And so, number one, we wait with patience.。
We wait with patience.。
There's two word for patience in the Greek. Hupomone and Makrithomeo.。
Hupomone and Makrithomeo. Makrithomeo is the word that is here.。
It's not just patience like we think of patience. It's waiting with a long temper.。
And you think, what does that mean with a long temper? Well, what does it mean if someone has a short temper?。
Everybody knows somebody with a short temper. Don't set me up, man. You better not go there.。
Now, you don't know who you're messing with. That's the short temper guy. Don't date him.。
Okay. It literally translates a long fuse.。
So we know what it is to have a short fuse, but to have a long fuse, like you can't set me off.。
I can be patient under suffering. That's the word here.。
We wait patiently for the Lord to return under suffering, long suffering.。
We're able to endure hardship.。
And waiting with patience, Makrithomeo, means not to turn on each other.。
That's a word for 2020. Be patient and stand firm.。
Because, why do I be patient and stand firm? Because, here's the reason why.。
Let me tell you why. The Lord's coming is near.。
Now, here's the reality. That was written 2,000 years ago.。
But when you compare 2,000 years to eternity, it is but a second.。
So if Jesus comes back tomorrow, or if he comes back 10,000 years, relatively speaking, it is still very close.。
And so don't turn on each other. Let me give you a hot take.。
It's going to get weird for just a minute.。
What I think happened in the end of 2019, beginning of 2020, this is just my opinion.。
So take it for what it's worth. Just my opinion.。
I can't chapter and verse this, which is dangerous.。
I think Satan, the devil, pulled all the spiritual evil forces together, all the demons.。
And he said, "You guys ready? We just want to unleash the spirit of division on the land.。
You ready? That's what we're going to do. That's our one strategy. Just divide them.。
Turn black against white, Republican against Democrat.。
Divide the churches. Turn husband against wife, father against son.。
Just divide them. Just divide them. Just divide them."。
And as people have said, "Well, we are more divided as a country than we've been in a very, very long time."。
It's working.。
And it's like we've given up waiting.。
He says, "Don't grumble against one another, brothers and sisters, or you will be judged.。
The judge is standing at the door. The judge is standing at the door.。
So don't grumble against each other."。
Now, any teachers in the room? Anybody teach a classroom today?。
I love it, man. Okay, there's a lot of you.。
So we're in a classroom today.。
Hey, let me ask you guys, the teachers, a question.。
How long can you leave the classroom?。
Never? What grade?。
Fourth graders? Yeah, you can't leave long.。
High school, you still can't leave long, right?。
And for the rest of us who aren't teachers, we remember.。
Like the teacher leaves the class, and you remember, "Hey, you guys be good.。
I've got to run to the principal's office real quick.。
Stay in your seat. Be good."。
Leaves the classroom, and at first it's quiet.。
You know, at first it's quiet.。
And then people start talking a little bit.。
And then they start talking a lot a bit.。
And then it gets loud, and all of a sudden you're up out of your seat.。
And maybe push comes to shove over here.。
There's some conflict. "What did you say about me?。
Hey, you call my girl? What'd you do?"。
And then you're like this, right?。
And you've got the fist cocked back.。
And then the teacher walks in.。
And I don't care what happened before that.。
It doesn't look good for you.。
Okay? You're in trouble at that point.。
And this is what he's saying.。
"I'm standing at the door, guys.。
I see you.。
I see what you said about her.。
I see what you thought about him.。
What are you doing, man?。
What happened to be diligent to preserving the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace?。
Why are you so divisive?。
What are you doing? Guys, I'm at the door. I see you."。
What do you want to be doing when Jesus comes back?。
Where do you want to be?。
What do you want to be listening to?。
What do you want to be watching?。
Who do you want to be with?。
And maybe you're like, "Honestly, JP, I wish he'd hurry up.。
Like, let's get this show on the road.。
What's he waiting on? He said he's at the door that he's going to return soon.。
What are we waiting on?"。
He promised. He promised.。
Why doesn't he keep his promise?。
I have a verse for you. 2 Peter 3, 9.。
It says, "The Lord is not slow in keeping his promises, as some understand slowness.。
But he's patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but everyone to come to repentance."。
So it's actually God being patient with you.。
Like, he's waiting for you to go on mission, for you to go everywhere and tell everyone about Jesus,。
for you to begin to share your faith, for you to begin to live with a purpose.。
And I know you're like, "Wait, no. But he needs to deal with evil, man.。
You don't know what happened to me. You don't know what they did to me."。
You want God to deal with evil? Who wants God to deal with evil?。
You want God to deal with evil? Where does he start?。
Does he start with the rapist or the person who looked at pornography?。
Oh, you want him to start with the murderer or the one who gossiped?。
Where do you want him to start?。
Because this is the way we work.。
We draw a line in the sand and we say, "God, deal with all that evil."。
But if God dealt with evil right now, he'd deal with you.。
That's the whole point of us. We need a Savior.。
We're desperate for a Savior.。
If God dealt with evil right now, if he abolished evil, I wouldn't be here.。
He'd deal with me.。
And he'd deal with you.。
But it's hard. I do know. I realize. I understand the world is broken.。
That's why he says in verse 10, "Brothers and sisters, as an example of patience in the face of suffering,。
take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord."。
He said, "You want an example of people who waited under suffering?。
Look at the prophets in the Word."。
You remember, we could talk about the prophets.。
We'll go with Noah. Remember Noah?。
He's the one who built the big boat called an ark.。
I don't know if you realize this, but it had never rained.。
And God says, "Hey, I want you to build an ark."。
So he spends his life, like his lot in life is to build a giant boat.。
So he starts building it and everybody's making fun of him.。
"What are you doing, Noah? Building a boat in the middle of the land? You crazy man."。
And it is his lot in life to be canceled.。
Everybody is just basically making fun of him.。
He's like, "No, guys, you don't understand. It's going to rain."。
They're like, "What's rain?"。
And so he finishes the boat. They put all the animals on it.。
And he closes the door. And do you know what happened?。
You know what happened?。
Anybody know what happened?。
No. Nothing happened.。
For days, they closed the door and nothing happened.。
Now you imagine a conversation with your wife.。
"Hey, Noah, you sure you didn't say, 'Go buy some art?'"。
"You sure you said, 'Build an ark, bud,' because nothing's..."。
Yeah, he was ridiculed.。
But he operated in faithfulness.。
As you know, we count as blessed those who have persevered.。
You have heard of Job's perseverance and have seen。
what the Lord finally brought about.。
The Lord is full of compassion and mercy.。
This word "perseverance," here we see the word "hupamone."。
It's often translated "patience" as well.。
But he says, "Look at the example of the prophets."。
"They wait with hope." They know what's coming.。
They know Jesus is coming back. And that's my second point.。
Wait with hope. We wait with hope.。
As the classroom goes in disarray,。
as everyone starts to bicker and they're up out of their seats,。
the good students, they sit there patiently at their desk,。
hoping that the teacher is quick to return.。
I hope they come quick and bring order. That's our role.。
God, please, pray, Lord, please come back quickly。
and make sense of all of this mess.。
Because it's messy, because there's cancer, and there's heartbreak,。
and there's death of loved ones.。
And at some point, you're going to have a crisis of faith。
where you're going to be like, "Why does God let this happen?"。
"If he's a good God, why is the world so broken?"。
Do you ever feel that way? Why is the world so broken?。
Let me give you a good, sound theological answer to that.。
Genesis chapter 3.。
The fall. Sin entered the world.。
The world is not as it should be. Your theology has to be good.。
Jesus said what he promised you is in this world you will have trouble.。
So when you have trouble, you should be like,。
"Jesus, thank you for keeping your promises. Thank you for giving me a heads up."。
Who's going to have trouble? Christians, followers of Jesus,。
God's children will have trouble.。
The Christian life is not the easy life.。
It's not like once you prayed to receive Jesus, now it's like easy street.。
So even God's people suffer.。
In comparison, honestly guys, what I would tell you is all we do is suffer.。
Comparatively speaking to being in the presence of God,。
I mean really your happiest moment here is going to feel like suffering in the kingdom.。
That's good news.。
If you have Jesus, if you've trusted in him for his death and resurrection,。
for the forgiveness of your sins, a payment for your sins,。
this is as bad as it will ever be.。
But if you're here tonight and you haven't yet placed your faith in Jesus,。
believing that he suffered for your sins so that you don't have to suffer for your sins,。
if you haven't done that yet, this is as good as it will ever be.。
This is your heaven.。
Eat, drink, and be merry for tomorrow you die.。
That's a sobering reality.。
And so we suffer, we endure hardships knowing that Jesus is going to come back and make it okay.。
This is what it says, verse 11.。
As you know, we count as blessed those who have persevered.。
And then he gives us a specific example.。
You have heard of Job's perseverance and have seen what the Lord finally brought about.。
You guys know the story of Job?。
Kind of a beatdown of a book.。
Let me just go ahead and give you that heads up.。
What happens, Satan is like, "Hey, God, nobody loves you."。
And God's like, "Job loves me."。
And Satan's like, "Well, he wouldn't love you if I messed with him."。
And God's like, "Wait for it. Go ahead."。
That's confusing.。
And so Satan does begin to mess with him.。
And you see this unfold.。
And this is a story in the scripture. It actually happened.。
And so Job, he's in misery for months.。
He has these open sores all over him.。
And he begins to pick his scabs with shards of pottery.。
And seven of his sons die.。
And three of his daughters die.。
And all of his wealth vanished in one afternoon.。
He put it all on Dogecoin and it just vanished.。
Like it was just gone, right?。
And so he becomes repulsive to his wife.。
He's hated by his friends.。
And even little children despised him as he lay on the ash heap outside of town.。
And this is what he says.。
"I know that my Redeemer lives."。
"And that in the end, He will stand on the earth."。
"And after my skin has been destroyed, yet in my flesh I will see God."。
"I myself will see Him with my own eyes, I and not another, how my heart yearns within me."。
And God restores him. It says at the back of the book.。
God restores him. He gets everything back two times.。
And I'm still like, "That's a bad deal."。
Because he doesn't get his sons back. He doesn't get his daughters back.。
His marriage is wrecked.。
And so like...。
And this is why, you've got to hear me on this.。
This is why eternity is the great equalizer.。
This is why James says, "Life is but a vapor."。
It's that long.。
You're here for but a moment.。
You guys don't even know your great-great-grandfather's name.。
Right? And he was alive 50 years ago.。
Your life is so short.。
Nobody's going to remember you. The deaths you return.。
It all comes down to, "What did you do with Jesus?"。
A hundred years from now, the only thing that matters...。
It won't matter your shoes if you've got the latest Air Force 1s or the Yeezys or Golden Goose.。
What's going to matter a hundred years from now is, "What did you do with Jesus?"。
"What did you do with Him?"。
"What did you say about Him?"。
Because I've got to tell you something that I don't think is taught very often.。
You're in the Job experiment.。
Don't you guys understand that?。
We're in the same experiment Job's in.。
Let me explain it.。
See, Lucifer was the greatest of angels.。
He's in heaven with God.。
And he's an angel.。
And he says to God, "God, I don't want to worship you. I want to be worshipped."。
"I want to be like you."。
Pride was the sin that made the devil the devil.。
And so God says, "Oh, you want to be God? Let's see what kind of God you are."。
And he sends him to earth.。
And God creates people.。
And God's like, "Let's see who they worship."。
"Will they worship the God of this world, or the prince of this air, or will they worship me?"。
This is what the Scripture says about Satan in 2 Corinthians 4, verse 4.。
"The God of this world..." Who is that?。
"The God of this world has blinded the minds of unbelievers."。
That's Satan.。
In Ephesians 2, verse 2, it says,。
"In which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world and the ruler of the kingdom of the air."。
Who is that?。
That's Satan.。
See, Satan has authority here.。
And he's trying to lure you astray.。
He's attacking you.。
He has one motive.。
He has one strategy.。
To not let you worship or follow God.。
To not allow you to trust in Jesus.。
He wants to steal, kill, and destroy.。
You're in the same experiment.。
Who am I going to worship? God, or the God of this world?。
You're just in the same experiment as Job.。
Don't you understand?。
So who's winning?。
And this is why you've got to make this deal right now.。
What has to happen for you to follow God?。
Let me say it in a different way.。
What has to happen for you not to follow God?。
Let me say it like this.。
What has to happen for you to turn away from God?。
Say, "God, if you don't do that, then I'm out."。
Or, "If you do that, then I'm out."。
"You don't let me get married, I'm not going to follow you."。
"You don't let me have children, nah."。
"You don't give me the promotion, nope."。
Nope. Nope.。
"I'm going to follow you. I'm going to go to the porch every Tuesday."。
"Church every Sunday. Community group. I'm going to be a member."。
"But if you do this, I'm out."。
What is it?。
What is it?。
Because you'd be better off saying what it is right now.。
And just being really honest.。
"God, this is what it is. I'll tell you what I love more than you do."。
"I'll tell you what I love more than you."。
When I do a wedding.。
When I do a wedding.。
Lots of premarital counseling.。
When he asks, call me.。
[laughter]。
I say this. Listen, this is important.。
I say, "Hey, what would you guys divorce over?"。
To which, you know, they're like, "Nothing. We love each other, man."。
I'm like, "Okay. Like truly nothing?"。
I look to her, I'm like, "Hey, what would you leave him for?"。
Right? Because we're going to say these vows.。
You're going to say, you know, "For richer or poorer, in sickness and health, till death do us part."。
Do you mean that? Like, what would you leave him for?。
She's like, "I wouldn't leave him for anything. I love him."。
"I love him with all my heart."。
[laughter]。
"He's my lobster. Like, you don't understand."。
[laughter]。
And I say, "Cool. Let me ask you."。
"So he cheats on you with your sister and makes a TikTok out of it. We still good?"。
[laughter]。
"We still good?"。
And she's like, "Well, maybe that."。
[laughter]。
And I'm like, "Cool, cool."。
Because we're going to throw that in the vows.。
You know, "For richer or poorer, in sickness and health, till death do us part, unless he cheats on me with my sister and makes a TikTok."。
And I'm just going to say that in front of all your friends.。
Because let's just be honest, man.。
Let's just keep it real, okay?。
Like 100. Let's just be completely.。
So God, here's the deal.。
I'm going to follow you with all of my life, unless...。
And what are you putting there?。
And you've got to answer that.。
What's the "unless"?。
Because, here's why.。
That's where Satan is going to attack you.。
That's what he's going...。
That's where he's coming after you.。
And I know that that should be.。
It should be a little unsettling.。
Except for, greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world.。
That's the good news.。
That's the good news.。
And so you can say, like Job did,。
"I know that my Redeemer lives, and that in the end,。
He will stand on the earth, and after my skin has been destroyed,。
yet in my flesh I will see God.。
I myself will see Him with my own eyes.。
I am not another.。
How my heart yearns within me.。
My Redeemer lives."。
He lives.。
James says, verse 12,。
"Above all, my brothers and sisters, do not swear,。
not by heaven or by earth, or by anything else.。
All you need to say is a simple yes or no,。
otherwise you will be condemned."。
Boom.。
I was like, what does that mean?。
How did he go there?。
Because he's like, "Jesus is coming back.。
He's standing at the door.。
Be on your best behavior.。
Make sure that you know Him.。
Oh, and by the way, don't pinky promise.。
You know, just say yes, no."。
I was like, that's a weird...。
Why is he saying that?。
Why did he go there?。
Because he's saying, "Hey, God keeps His promises,。
so you keep your promises.。
God keeps His word,。
so you better keep your word."。
Number three, he says, "Wait with integrity."。
Wait with integrity.。
Remember, Jesus' half-brother is writing a commentary。
on the Sermon on the Mount.。
And so in Matthew 5, verse 37, Jesus says,。
"Let your yes be yes and your no be no."。
He says, "Keep your word."。
The reason that your yes can be trusted。
is because you do what you say you're going to do.。
And I don't know if you realize how important integrity is。
in the Christian life,。
but the gospel is the way that the Holy Spirit saves people.。
And the gospel is actually a story,。
that you're a sinner separated from God by your sin,。
and God loved you so much。
that He doesn't want to punish you for your sin.。
He sent His own Son, Jesus Christ,。
to be punished in your place for the abortion,。
for the sex, for prom night,。
for what you did yesterday or on the way here,。
what you said about her or what you thought about Him.。
The thing you stole, the person you killed,。
Jesus died for that.。
That's the gospel.。
That's the good news.。
And it's a story.。
I'm sharing with you the story.。
And I'm sharing with you the story of the Holy Spirit。
who is the one who's going to save you。
from the grave.。
And if you trust in that,。
then you don't have to pay for your sins in hell.。
Because the only thing that you can do in hell。
is pay for your sins forever.。
So the only person who doesn't go to hell。
is the person whose sins have been paid for.。
It's not like good people go to heaven。
and bad people go to hell.。
No, no, no, no.。
Good and bad people in hell,。
good and bad people in heaven,。
they're going to be like, "Dude,。
"I mean, you flaked out on me last Friday.。
"You're telling me this dude came back to life?。
"For real?。
"Guess what, man, I got to tell you something.。
"I don't trust you.。
"And I don't trust your gospel."。
Before anybody trusts in Christ,。
they trust a Christian.。
That's why he says this here.。
Before anybody is going to place their faith in Jesus Christ,。
they're going to be communicated that message。
by a Christian.。
Some of you are here, right?。
And you're like, "No, I've been hurt by the church."。
Man, you don't understand.。
I've been hurt by the church.。
Anybody know anybody who's been hurt by the church?。
Anybody know somebody who's been hurt by the church?。
Yeah, guess what?。
No, you don't.。
You don't know anybody that's been hurt by the church.。
It's not like their whole church,。
like, you know, First Baptist, Ulist,。
"Hey, gather everyone up.。
"Come on, everybody line up,。
"and let's just make fun of them, call them names."。
You're of a church.。
So you weren't hurt by the church.。
You were hurt by the church's representative,。
a member of the church, right?。
That's very important。
because people are going to disappoint you.。
But when you're that person,。
when you disappoint someone,。
you go back to them and you say,。
"Hey, I'm so sorry.。
"I did not let my yes be yes.。
"Will you please forgive me?"。
Because you steward。
the most important message。
that has ever been told。
in the history of the world.。
For God so loved the world。
that he gave his only begotten Son。
that whoever believes in him,。
whoever believes in him,。
whoever believes in him。
shall not perish,。
but have eternal life.。
And the way they're going to believe in him。
is if they believe you when you talk about him.。
So let your yes be yes,。
and your no be no,。
and do what you say you're going to do。
as you steward the gospel.。
Jesus kept his commitment。
to die for our sins.。
And he kept his commitment。
to come back to life.。
And he will keep his commitment。
to return again.。
One day, I don't know when,。
I hope it's before you get to your car,。
the sky's going to crack open like a scroll。
and you're going to see。
the Son of Man coming on a white horse。
and you're going to see。
the Son of Man coming on a white horse。
and a robe dipped in blood。
with a sick tat。
that says。
"The King of Kings, Lord of Lords."。
Man, it's going to be awesome.。
And so live like he's coming back, friends.。
Live like he's coming back.。
Have you ever seen the movie "Cast Away"?。
I'm just curious now,。
by show of hands,。
how many people have you seen it?。
So a lot of you,。
because I'm going to totally ruin it,。
because it's 20 years old.。
So it came out when you were born.。
You've had 20 years to see it,。
so if I ruin it, it's not my fault.。
That's your fault.。
And so it's Tom Hanks,。
Woody from "Toy Story."。
So Woody from "Toy Story,"。
he's trapped on a deserted island.。
Man, true story, there's nobody else there,。
like shipwreck, he's on this deserted island。
all by himself.。
He's so lonely, he becomes best friends。
with a volleyball, "Wilson!"。
For years and years and years.。
And he's got a family, right?。
He's separated from his family, all by himself,。
on a deserted island, nobody comes to save him.。
But here's the part where I ruin it.。
Somebody actually does come to save him eventually,。
and they get him, and they're taking him home to his family.。
And it's this big, climactic, epic moment。
where he's about to meet his wife,。
and it's everything that you thought it would be.。
It's raining, and they lock eyes from across the parking lot,。
and they get, and they run, and they embrace,。
and it's this amazing embrace,。
and then they start making out, right?。
And it's raining, and it's incredible,。
and then she stops kissing him, and she looks him in the eyes,。
and she says, "I knew you would come back.。
"I knew you would come back."。
But then it gets weird.。
Because she's married.。
"I know.。
"I know.。
"She moved on."。
Which tells me what?。
She didn't know.。
And so if you're here,。
and you're like, "I know Jesus is coming back.。
"I know he's coming back."。
But you date however you want.。
You say whatever you want.。
You do whatever you want.。
You spin however you want.。
You compare however you want.。
You do not believe he's coming back.。
Your words say one thing.。
Your life says something else.。
You gotta know that, man.。
He's coming back。
before you know it.。
So in summary,。
wait with patience.。
End your suffering.。
Wait with hope.。
Believing that he's coming back.。
And wait with integrity.。
So that you can be trusted.。
It's really like,。
if I had to summarize all of those,。
it's like,。
wait with the confidence。
that Jesus is coming back.。
You feel that?。
Wait with hope.。
You feel that?。
I became a Christian。
at this church.。
And as a young adult.。
That's why I'm so passionate about。
the season of life that you're in.。
But I wasn't always a Christian。
as a young adult, and so。
I was amazing at being an unbeliever.。
So I partied really hard,。
and one night,。
my boys and I, we were at the Village Country Club.。
And so, you know the village apartments,。
there's a bar there, that's where we were at.。
And, um, is it still there?。
Okay, good.。
(laughter)。
Or not good, I don't know.。
And so we're there,。
and we really had two objectives。
when we went out.。
It was either to take a girl home,。
or to get in a fight.。
Those were the two things we were focused on doing。
when we went out, okay?。
Stop judging me, man, I didn't know Jesus.。
And so we were out,。
and as usual,。
no girls took interest.。
And so,。
my buddy's walking around。
the club, and he's the littlest one of us,。
okay, I gotta tell you,。
he's pretty small.。
But he's intoxicated, he's had too much to drink,。
and he's doing that weird thing that guys do。
where he's walking around like this, you know?。
And he's just, he's walking around the club like this,。
just looking for something.。
And so he finds the one guy in the bar, smaller than him,。
and he does this dumb thing that guys do.。
He's like, "What are you looking at?"。
You know?。
It's brilliant, right?。
And so next thing you know, they're chest to chest,。
about to make out,。
breathing heavy into each other's face, right?。
And I see it, so I go over there,。
and I separate them.。
And I'm like, "No, no, no, no, no, not tonight, man.。
"I'm gonna take you home, bro, you've had too much to drink,。
"I'm gonna get you home."。
And so I separate them, and this guy goes,。
"Hey, don't you touch me."。
(audience laughs)。
And I'm like,。
"Hey, no, it's cool, man, he's had too much,。
"I'm sorry for whatever he said,。
"I'm gonna take him home, we're gonna go home,。
"keep doing your thing, man,。
"you look like you're having a good time, keep going at it."。
And I turn my back for one second,。
and they're back at it again, about to make out,。
and so I go, and I go,。
and I separate them again,。
I push them back,。
and this guy goes,。
"I told you, don't you touch me."。
And I'm like,。
"Bro."。
(audience laughs)。
"Why are you doing that, man?。
"I'm trying to take my friend home,。
"and you're over here slapping my hand away,。
"and like, don't,。
"like, don't, don't be that way."。
(audience laughs)。
And hey, he did the craziest thing。
I've ever seen anybody do in this situation, right?。
He looks at me straight in the eyes,。
and he pulls out his cell phone,。
and he does this,。
and he's just looking at me like this.。
(audience laughs)。
"Hey, you here?。
"All right, I got something I need you to take care of."。
(audience laughs)。
And he hangs up, I know, I know,。
I was like, "Who'd you, was that your dad?。
"Who'd you call?。
"Was that Batman? Like, what did you do?"。
And like, if I'm totally honest with you,。
like, his confidence was unsettling to me.。
I'm like, he knows something I don't know,。
so I'm scared at this point, truly, I'm like,。
"Hey, guys, we gotta go!。
"He called somebody, I don't know who, we gotta go!"。
And we're all surrounded up, like, they believe me,。
they see I'm kinda panicked, and so we're like,。
"All right, we're going." And I saw who he called!。
I saw who he called!。
These two cartoon characters get out of a truck, right?。
Like, they had school buses for breakfast,。
you know, like,。
they eat steroids, I don't know,。
and they're yoked up,。
they're taller than me,。
you know, got muscle shirts on, you know?。
And one dude has a chain,。
not like this kind of chain,。
like a chain you pull a car with,。
like this right here, a padlock, I'm not even kidding, right?。
And they go, and he gets out of the car,。
he's like, "Are these the guys?"。
I was like, "No, they left, they went that way."。
(laughter)。
And I'm like, "Why?"。
It's like all of the sudden。
I knew why that guy was so resolved.。
He had so much peace about him.。
It's like he was saying,。
"Whatever you're gonna do to me,。
"you're not gonna do it long."。
You hear that?。
It's like what he was saying,。
he was like, "Hey, you don't understand,。
"like I got somebody coming.。
"Whatever you're about to do to me,。
"you're not gonna do it long.。
"Can you。
"look Satan。
"in the eyes right now。
"and say that?。
"Whatever you're gonna do to me,。
"you're not gonna do it long.。
"My Redeemer lives.。
"I'm gonna see him again.。
"Don't you know, bro?"。
Listen, he keeps his promises.。
He keeps his promises.。
You know how I know he keeps his promises,。
by the way, Mr. Lucifer?。
Okay, he died。
on a cross for me.。
He died on a cross.。
And I know you were happy about that.。
You thought you won for a minute,。
but then boom, he came back to life。
and you lose.。
And I placed my faith in him.。
So whatever you're gonna。
do to me for my little 76 years,。
you wanna keep me single?。
That's fine.。
You wanna keep me celibate? That's fine.。
You wanna keep me poor?。
That's okay.。
You wanna keep me forgotten?。
I'm not forgotten, dude. Don't you see?。
The creator of the heavens and the earth knows my name.。
See, he wrote in a book.。
He sealed my soul with his Holy Spirit.。
He formed me in my。
mother's womb. He knows how many hairs are on my head.。
But before。
creation,。
he created me for a purpose,。
to live for him. I'm not gonna。
fall for your stupid tricks.。
Not today.。
Not ever.。
I'm not gonna lose hope.。
I will wait with patience.。
I will wait with hope.。
And I will wait。
with integrity.。
Because my redeemer lives.。
And he keeps his promises.。
Let me pray that you would.。
Father, help us。
believe that. Because I bet。
when I say。
celibacy,。
that's scary.。
Singleness.。
Poor.。
Forgotten. Nobody wants that.。
We don't want that.。
That's not what we want.。
But we follow。
Jesus, and what he said。
to you was not my will,。
but thy will.。
And so, okay.。
Here's my。
real ask.。
Will you protect us。
from。
the enemy?。
Will you protect us from the enemy?。
And will you help us。
to never stop loving。
you? And will。
you help us to never stop looking。
for the return of your savior?。
In Jesus' name,。
amen.。
