(upbeat music)。
- All right, well, welcome friends of the room,。
friends of Fort Worth.。
He's excited, Houston, El Paso, Phoenix,。
Fayetteville, Philadelphia, North Carolina,。
wherever you're joining us from, we're so excited.。
We are wrapping up this mood series tonight.。
Let me start by sharing a little bit of something。
related to the Marvin household recently.。
My kids are terrible sleepers,。
and I like to think they get this from their mother,。
but I think that would be a lie.。
And she reminds me often that that probably comes。
from their father, who's not a great napper,。
not a great sleeper, and so we have done everything。
we can to try to get them to sleep.。
The latest thing we've been attempting to do。
is cut out as much sugar as we can anytime around bedtime,。
'cause we wanna make sure there's very little sugar。
so that they'll go right to sleep, and it has not worked.。
And so that has led me to discover,。
man, what could that possibly be?。
Like, what is not causing sleep?。
And in looking even the sugar thing,。
I recently came across a discovery。
that sugar has nothing to do with your energy levels.。
Do you know this?。
Like, it's not responsible, this is a little bit。
mind-blowing, but I'm going somewhere, people,。
so just stay with me.。
It's not responsible for sleep in children, sleep in you.。
If it's chocolate, there could be caffeine,。
which could be a factor, but it doesn't have anything。
to do with that, and that kind of led me。
down an article spiral.。
Ever been on the internet, and you're like,。
all of a sudden, you're going to check your email,。
and then you're on the vortex of just information,。
and you're checking out like one myth after the next。
after the next from the article that you looked up。
related to sugar?。
And this kind of will give us some traction。
for where we're going tonight,。
'cause there were like several different things。
and myths that I came across in exploring that one。
that I really think most of us or many of us。
have heard for a long time in my life,。
and they just are not true, apparently.。
So not just is sugar not responsible for increasing。
energy levels in kids or people,。
there's other myths that maybe you walked into this room.。
This is one that maybe you've heard of before,。
or at least it's kind of hard for me to believe,。
and it is that shaving definitely will not make。
the hair come back thicker.。
If you shave an area, and I think we all at some point,。
at least I grew up in high school,。
and there's this like moment,。
and depending on if you're a guy or a girl,。
how you interact with this is very different,。
'cause if you're a guy, you're hoping that your facial hair。
is gonna come in in high school,。
so you're like shaving every day,。
just hoping that three hairs are gonna pop up.。
And if you're a girl, you're like, hey,。
the one thing you cannot do is wax right here.。
You shave right here, it's gonna blow up on you,。
so you need to be very careful about what you do.。
But apparently, it is totally a myth.。
Shaving will not make it come back thicker.。
Here's another one, turkey.。
Turkey does not make you tired.。
Anyone ever heard this before?。
Yes, it's a myth.。
Turkey does not make, before anybody's like,。
no, wait a second, hey, Thanksgiving, I've experienced it.。
It is not turkey that makes you tired,。
it's that you're bloated, and you had too much dessert,。
or alcohol, or something that made you feel like,。
man, I just need a nap, but it is not.。
And in case a lot of you guys are checking,。
and you're like, wait, there's some hormone。
that's inside of it, that hormone is in every meat.。
So any meat should make, in fact, it's in cheese.。
If you had cheese, it should make you just as tired.。
It's not true, it's a myth.。
Another myth that maybe you came into this room believing,。
I found this one out today, someone told me,。
and then verifying it, a dog's mouth。
is not cleaner than a human mouth.。
Yeah, what?。
Depending on who your dog is, I guess,。
this would be a fact, and depending on who you are,。
and how often you brush, but on average,。
a dog's mouth is not cleaner than a human mouth.。
This is only said by people who love their dog。
licking their face, and you should stop it.。
It's weirding everybody out, and his mouth is not cleaner,。
and you should let anybody lick your face, let alone a dog.。
But it is a myth that a dog's mouth is cleaner.。
Here's another one, a very famous one.。
Urine will take away a jellyfish sting.。
Now, if you grew up in the era that I did,。
you saw Monica and Chandler in the episode of Friends,。
where Chandler steps in, I can't believe。
this is how we're opening.。
Chandler steps in after Monica gets stung by a jellyfish,。
and he's like, "I gotta help out."。
This is not true, so if anyone, if you're ever at the beach,。
and you get stung by a jellyfish,。
and somebody tries to come up and help you,。
tell them to back it up, because it will not help you.。
In fact, it can often make things worse, apparently.。
Saltwater is your best option at that point,。
'cause it'll clean it out, but urine is definitely,。
is never really the solution to any problem that you have.。
And it is a myth, and whoever came up with this,。
I'm not even sure where it came from,。
other than maybe that episode in general.。
But the reason I start there is 'cause in talking。
about myths and how if you believe a myth,。
it can impact your behavior, and just the truth,。
and how oftentimes culture, or just different people,。
we grow up and we kind of embrace these different myths,。
and they impact our lives.。
Some on really silly and fun ways.。
There's other things in life where we embrace a myth,。
and it has tremendous impact.。
And tonight, we're gonna talk about the subject,。
or the mood of loneliness.。
And we're gonna explore some of the myths that people,。
oftentimes well-intentioned people, promote,。
and oftentimes many of us believe。
as it relates to loneliness,。
and what a solution to loneliness is.。
So we're gonna look at three teachings from God's word。
on the subject of loneliness.。
Three myths and then three truths。
that come directly from Scripture。
as it relates to loneliness.。
This has been called the loneliest generation.。
A recent study found that 68% of young adults。
would say that no one really knows them.。
It's been called the most connected generation in history,。
and it's also one of the loneliest of all time.。
Consistently, a majority of young adults。
describe feeling extremely lonely,。
or very lonely, on a consistent basis.。
Despite the fact that we are more connected。
than we've ever been before,。
we're often less known than we've ever been before.。
In fact, young adulthood in general。
can kind of be a lonely time.。
Because if you think about it,。
it's just I was thinking about it this past week,。
your whole life you're kind of like running。
with your crew and your friends from very early on。
until you reach young adulthood.。
So you start in elementary school,。
you're hanging out, you're on the playground,。
you're running around playing tetherball,。
you're all together, then you move on to junior high.。
You're still together, you just get a locker this time,。
and you get a little bigger,。
and you start going through puberty,。
but we're all in this together.。
Then you move on to high school,。
and you still got your crew that you're running with,。
and your friends are all together,。
and you're just with your group of people this whole time.。
Then you go to college,。
and there's a little bit of splitting off,。
but it's like, hey, I'll see you back there,。
we'll hang out when we come back for the summers,。
but we're going off,。
and I'm still around people my age and my age group.。
And then all of a sudden it's like the track is going along,。
and everything's fine, and it's like the track runs out,。
and there's just a total decline,。
and you're just free falling out into the real world。
after you graduate college,。
and you're like, oh my gosh, all of my people,。
I'm no longer just around all 21 year olds all the time.。
I no longer live with seven roommates all the time.。
I'm in a new city, I got a new job,。
I don't work with a bunch of people like me。
and my age all the time, and I'm kind of free falling,。
and I just feel alone.。
And so I don't know what your experience。
with loneliness has looked like,。
and what it looks like today,。
but it's a feeling that all of us。
at some point in our lives have,。
and if you haven't experienced it,。
you're either going to experience it in the future,。
and knowing how to face it and combat it,。
because it's loneliness that's responsible。
for so many issues that spring forward。
out of that loneliness.。
People get into relationships they shouldn't be in,。
people start interacting with alcohol。
in a way that is destructive towards them,。
and further relationships drives them back。
into shame and loneliness,。
and people just make all types of decisions。
to try to deal with the pain,。
because it is such a real pain。
that can come with loneliness.。
So we're gonna look at God's word。
about how to battle real solutions for loneliness,。
and how to reject and identify real lives。
as it relates to loneliness.。
So if you take notes, you can take notes,。
we're gonna go through three of these things,。
and look at the scriptures that correspond.。
The first myth as it relates to loneliness。
is related to friends, and it's specifically this.。
Friends can fix my loneliness.。
Friends can fix my loneliness.。
The truth is that it is the right friends。
that help us to fight loneliness.。
It is not just friends in general。
that can fix my loneliness,。
but the solution is that I don't need more friends,。
or my old friends, or my college friends, or any friends.。
The truth is that the Bible says。
that you are to have the right friends,。
to have real friends,。
and friends that align with God's design。
to the types of friend relationships。
that you're supposed to have.。
You may not know this,。
God cares about you having friends in your life,。
and having the right types of friends in your life.。
And he gets very clear in scripture。
about the types of relationships。
that are to mark your life and my life.。
Proverbs 18, 24 says this.。
"A man of many companions may come to ruin."。
So a man of many companions,。
this could be a man of many Facebook friends,。
a man of many Instagram followers,。
a man who knows a lot of people,。
"may come to ruin."。
But there's a friend that sticks closer than a brother.。
The Bible says that there's a type of relationship。
that you can have with lots of people,。
but there are certain relationships。
that should mark your life,。
that no matter what you face,。
they're sticking by you,。
and you're sticking by them.。
That there's this real friend that God wants you to have.。
Specifically, here's the type of real friends,。
or the right friendships that should mark your life,。
or should be a part of your life.。
People who know you, and who know God.。
People who know you, and who know God.。
And we'll talk about and unpack。
why that's so important here in a second.。
But the solution to fixing any loneliness。
is not more relationships,。
not more out social activities,。
it is having the right friendships.。
And if you do not get this right,。
you will not fight and battle loneliness。
in the way that God wants you to experience.。
A freedom from loneliness,。
and the ability to fight against loneliness.。
It's not just any friendships,。
it is the right ones.。
Just like, it's not dissimilar to,。
if you go to fill an empty room in your apartment,。
or an empty room in your house,。
you're looking for somebody to split the rent with,。
or split the lease with,。
there's a couple ways you could go about that.。
The first would be through a connection,。
through a relationship,。
through an old friend, an acquaintance,。
somebody you know,。
somebody from this church,。
somebody from your church,。
wherever you're connected to,。
somebody who you're like,。
"Oh, I think we kind of would run together well."。
Then you could go what is the more risky approach,。
which is called Craigslist.。
And you could go search for,。
looking for a roommate.。
And what you're likely to experience。
is a roommate that no longer,。
is not someone that you get excited about going home,。
and being around all the time,。
but someone who doesn't know how to wash out the pasta。
out of the pot when they finish cooking,。
somebody who borrows everything that you have,。
and is like,。
"I thought we were kind of sharing。
"this whole thing together."。
Somebody who doesn't tell you。
that they're bringing over friends。
that are gonna stay in the middle of the week,。
over the night,。
somebody who leaves the TV on till one o'clock.。
The same way that we'd all go like,。
"Hey, yeah, the goal is not to just,。
"you know, fill the empty room,。
"it's to fill the room with the right person."。
And in the same way,。
the goal is not just for you。
to try to fill the empty parts of your heart,。
whereas the relationships with people in general,。
it's to fill them with the right people,。
specifically people who know God,。
and who know you.。
And I'm gonna talk about both of those.。
Without both of those being present,。
you are not going to experience the type of friendships。
that God wants you to have.。
And he designed you for relationships.。
The very first thing that God says is not good。
was man to be alone.。
Before the garden,。
or before sin was entered into the world,。
in the book of Genesis,。
God said,。
"It is not good for man to be alone."。
You were designed for relationships,。
but not just any relationships。
will help you battle loneliness.。
The right ones will.。
So what do I mean by knowing you,。
or knowing God?。
Specifically as it relates to knowing you,。
they know you,。
they know flaws and all.。
You open up and have a life in front of them。
where they know,。
not just kind of what everyone sees on the outside,。
they know all of the different,。
just parts of you where God still needs to take ground.。
If you're a Christian,。
you should have people who know you.。
They know where you struggle,。
they know the areas where you're tempted.。
The Bible says in Hebrews chapter three,。
verse 13,。
verse 12 and 13,。
"Take care, brothers,。
"lest there be in any of you an evil。
"and an unbelieving heart,。
"leading you to fall away from the living God."。
So hey, everybody listen up,。
I want you to make sure that you watch out。
that in the midst of you guys,。
he's talking to this,。
that writer of Hebrews is writing this church,。
there's not an unbelieving heart,。
or part of you that doesn't trust God,。
that could lead you to turn away from your faith.。
But here's the way to do that.。
"But exhort or call out one another."。
Exhort one another every day as long as it is called today,。
so that none of you would be hardened。
by the deceitfulness of sin.。
That God says, hey, the antidote,。
the remedy for you having your heart hardened by sin。
is to have people in your life。
that can look in and exhort or call you。
to the standard of God's word.。
They can call you out in the areas of your life。
that you need to be called out.。
And they can call me out in the areas of my life。
that I need to be called out.。
How is that possible?。
The only way it's possible is for them to know。
the areas of your life that you need to be called out in.。
For them to know what's going on。
in your dating relationship.。
For you to open up your life and share about the anxiety。
that you feel at work.。
For them to know the challenges that you're having。
with your family or your parents.。
For them to know about the pornography addiction,。
the eating disorder, the cutting that's taking place.。
For you to open up your life and say,。
hey, this is not who I wanna be.。
God's word is clear,。
and I don't even wanna talk about this,。
but I need somebody to know it and hold me accountable。
and pray for me and come alongside.。
You will not have the right relationships。
unless you are willing to open up your life。
to other people, to be known.。
In Proverbs chapter 27, verse six, it says this.。
Faithful are the wounds of a friend,。
but profuse are the kisses of an enemy.。
That a true friend, a real friend, the Bible says,。
is someone who is willing to wound you with the truth。
because they love you enough to tell you it.。
So when he's not willing to be like, hey, dude, look,。
I know you're dating Roger, and Roger's a little crazy,。
I think he's got an anger problem,。
but I really would love to be a part of your bridal party.。
Can we make that happen?。
They're not willing to just go along with it.。
If they see something not consistent。
with what God's word says, they're willing to say,。
hey, can we talk about your relationship?。
I just feel like I'm seeing this.。
Maybe I'm wrong, but I wanna love you enough to wound you.。
Do you have friends in your life。
who love you enough to wound you,。
who love you enough to share the truth?。
When is the last time that someone was honest enough。
with you to say, hey, I see this in your life.。
Has anyone ever told you this before?。
If you wanna have real relationships and real friends,。
it's gonna involve people who are willing。
to have them speak the truth,。
'cause I care enough about you to speak the truth to you.。
And if I didn't love you,。
I would just tell you whatever you wanted to hear,。
'cause I need you to affirm something in me.。
But real friends are willing to speak the truth,。
and they're people that you have to be willing。
to open up your life to, so they have to know you,。
and the second thing, they have to know God.。
That if you're gonna have the type。
of real intimate relationships,。
can you be boys or can you be girls。
with somebody who's not a follower of Jesus。
or not a Christian or is like, yeah, I'm cool with that,。
but it's not really a big part of my life.。
Can you be friends with them?。
Sure.。
Can you spend a lot of time with them。
or can you like being around that person?。
Absolutely, but will you experience the type。
of friendship that fights against loneliness?。
No, because you're not experiencing a friendship。
that shares the most intimate part about you,。
which if you're a Christian, is your faith.。
It's the fact that you have a faith。
and you are in relationship with the one true God。
through Jesus.。
You're just gonna have superficial, shallow relationships,。
and so you may have a good time,。
you're able to catch up on memories,。
and remember that one frat party we were a part of?。
That was the best, man, but you're not gonna have。
the true, real relationship God wants for you。
if they're not someone who actually knows God.。
This is why some of us, like if you are from a family。
like I am where there's non-believers。
and non-Christians in your family,。
you can get around other Christians。
and it feels like you're closer, for me,。
closer with my community group,。
with other Christians that I've known for a while。
than I am from my own blood, my family,。
or members of my family who don't share the same faith.。
Why is that?。
Maybe you grew up in a Christian home。
and you're like, dude, me and my family,。
we're thick as thieves,。
and so I don't even know what you're talking about,。
but a lot of us, we did not,。
and so when we get around family and we're back home,。
it's like, dude, I feel closer with the Christians。
that I developed relationships than I do with my own family,。
my own blood that I was around for years, 18 years.。
Why is that?。
It's because kindred spirits is the true thing.。
If you share the Holy Spirit,。
you will have a kindred spirit with one another.。
You have the same values, you have the same perspective,。
the same faith, and the same commitment to following Christ,。
which is a far more uniting thing。
than anything any human or any family relationship will,。
that blood is thicker than water.。
Anybody heard that before?。
Blood is thicker than water,。
but the spirit is greater than them both,。
and it's the spirit of God that bonds his people together。
in the strongest relationship.。
If you're a Christian, you are more family to me。
than any family member I have that's not a believer.。
That's what the Bible teaches,。
that we are all children of God united underneath Jesus,。
together in the body of Christ.。
So you need to have real relationships。
with someone who knows you, that you open up your life to,。
and somebody who knows God.。
What is at stake if either one of those are gone?。
Well, if there's someone who knows you,。
but they don't know God, then you just get together,。
and they're like, dude,。
they celebrate the sins Jesus died for.。
They're like, oh man,。
hey, let's go have another one of those nights,。
you know, we kind of kick back, it was relaxing,。
we were, is it Friday, and you know, you ended up,。
I think you got like so wasted,。
you made out with that random guy,。
that was amazing.。
And yet they don't call you to be the person。
that you wanna be.。
They don't push you in the direction that you want to go.。
They're gonna be someone that knows you,。
'cause they know all the jacked up stuff,。
but they're like, dude, that's great,。
and they're gonna continue to influence you。
in a direction that's away from God.。
If they know God, but they don't really know you,。
they just know kind of what you let them know,。
and you manage your perception with them,。
you're not open about, here's where I'm really struggling,。
if you don't have people in your life that are like that,。
you essentially only have Facebook friends.。
Think about it, what's a Facebook friend?。
A Facebook friend is someone that I kind of manage。
the perception, if we're friends on Facebook,。
you kind of see whatever I want you to see, right?。
Whatever I wanna post, whatever I wanna talk about,。
I kind of like project whatever image。
that I want to to you.。
If you don't have people who know you,。
junk and all, scars and all, flaws and all,。
you just have Facebook friends.。
That's what you have.。
You just have people that you manage the perception。
that they have, and here's the tragedy in that.。
You'll never experience being loved。
because they don't actually know you.。
They don't know the you to love.。
The moment that you're willing to open up and say,。
this is really who I am, you allow for a real relationship。
and real intimacy and real love to take place.。
But as long as you hide behind, no, hey,。
I can't really share that, or I don't feel like。
I can be open and honest about that,。
you will never have the real relationships。
that God wants you to have, the real types of friendships。
that he wants you to have.。
It is being unknown that will make you feel alone.。
Some of you, the reason you feel so alone,。
and I hate this, and I could hammer one thing,。
it's because no one really knows you.。
You're afraid of what would happen。
if they actually got to know you.。
You're afraid of what they would think about you,。
and the tragedy is, here's what they're gonna think.。
You're actually honest with people in your life.。
I'm not saying everybody, you don't have to go on Facebook。
and be like, I gotta let everybody know。
about everything in my life.。
I'm saying having real relationships。
with other believers, other Christians.。
And if you're going, what are they gonna think about me?。
They're gonna think you're honest.。
They're gonna think you're a lot like them,。
only more honest.。
If they're a Christian.。
And as long as you hide behind, well,。
I can't really be open, you're not ever gonna have。
the real relationships that God wants,。
and you're gonna feel alone.。
And the God who's there doesn't want you to feel that.。
And one of the ways he's given you to fight that。
is by having real friendships, not just any friendships.。
The second myth, and probably the most widely held myth,。
is this, marriage could fix my loneliness.。
Marriage could fix my loneliness.。
Here's the truth.。
Marriage will address your singleness, not your loneliness.。
Marriage can fix your singleness,。
and not even fix your singleness,。
as though it's something to be fixed.。
Marriage will address your singleness.。
It can't touch your loneliness.。
Those are two entirely different things.。
The only thing that getting married does,。
if you're someone who's lonely,。
and I hear this all the time from people who are like,。
I just feel such a loneliness,。
you'll never understand 'cause you're married,。
and I just feel like I need to get married to someone.。
They're assuming that marriage would fix my loneliness.。
Marriage will change your singleness.。
It will not address your loneliness,。
because loneliness is a heart issue that only God can fix.。
You can be married and lonely.。
You can be single and not lonely.。
You can be single and lonely.。
You can be married and not lonely.。
Those two things are not related together.。
And the God who's there says。
he does not want you to buy the lie。
that marriage is meant to be some solution。
to the heart issues that you have.。
Marriage will change your singleness status,。
but it will not change your heart,。
because loneliness is a heart issue.。
The reality is, marriage can add to loneliness.。
And so, listen to me very closely.。
After doing this for the last 10 years,。
I cannot tell you how heartbroken。
and how often my heart has broken for the people in my life。
who, because they were so lonely and they thought,。
you know what, I just need to get married,。
despite the fact that, you know,。
he's not the best candidate,。
but he's the one I'm with right now,。
so let's make it happen, and they end up heartbroken.。
And the pain of loneliness in marriage。
far exceeds the pain of loneliness and singleness.。
And please, please, please,。
believe me, it is better to be lonely today and single。
than to be lonely tomorrow in marriage.。
And if you allow that loneliness。
and that void inside of your heart。
to lead you to get married to someone。
out of an attempt to kind of feel that,。
not only will it not fix your loneliness,。
it'll amplify it if you marry the wrong person.。
It's not dissimilar to this.。
Anyone go to Costco here?。
Shop at Costco?。
Okay, that's kind of like a dad thing,。
so there's like five of us here.。
And, sensor market, we'll just go with that.。
So for me, in this stage of life,。
we go to Costco all the time, like once a week,。
it's like, hey, we got nothing to do, we're going to Costco,。
'cause it's kind of like going to the zoo with kids.。
It's like, we'll walk around and we'll eat the samples.。
What I've discovered about myself。
is that I can't go to Costco when I'm hungry,。
because I end up going around and buying things。
that I don't need to buy,。
because I'm just like, oh man,。
this apple bacon sausage, this is delicious.。
I didn't even know that I needed this, let's get it.。
And then I go home and I'm like,。
I didn't even come here to buy this.。
What did we end up with all this stuff。
that we ended up purchasing?。
Because I went shopping when I was hungry。
and it was a bad idea.。
In the same way it's bad to go shopping when you're hungry,。
it is a bad idea to go dating when you're desperate.。
Yeah, whoa, whoa.。
(audience laughing)。
Ooh, ooh, man.。
(audience applauding)。
I'm, that's not just some line, that is the truth.。
And if you are out there and you are thirsty。
and you're looking to satisfy something inside of you,。
I'm being totally serious.。
If there's a part of you that out of that desperation。
or hey man, I just feel like lonely on the inside,。
so I'm gonna go looking,。
you're gonna end up marrying someone。
that is not who God says.。
You're gonna end up marrying someone out of that desperation。
and attempting to cope with that pain of just,。
man, I want to not be single so bad,。
so I don't care if they don't exactly add up to God's word.。
I'm moving forward with this。
and you are gonna find yourself more lonely。
than ever before.。
Marriage cannot fix your loneliness, but it can add to it.。
And I couldn't be more clear as a guy who's so committed。
to seeing amazing marriages break out all over this room.。
You guys, get married, make babies, make disciples,。
it's gonna be amazing.。
I hope it happens, I hope to be a part of it.。
And truly, there's lots of great options around this room.。
Lots of probably not great options too, so be careful.。
But point being, as someone who is so deeply committed。
to hoping all of you end up in amazing marriages someday,。
I want to be abundantly clear.。
You need to make sure that you address the heart issues。
inside of you before you go dating.。
Just like you need to make sure。
you address the hunger inside of you before you go shopping,。
you need to make sure that you address the heart issues。
so that you don't allow that desperation。
to push you to date someone.。
Who God says, this is not who you should be。
in relationship with.。
This is why the danger of marrying or dating someone。
who's not a follower of Jesus or not a believer,。
and by believer, I don't mean just they say。
they're a Christian, I mean they are following Jesus.。
This is why it's such a bad idea.。
Or date someone of a different religion,。
of a different faith.。
Because if you think loneliness being single,。
if you marry someone who doesn't share the faith。
that you have, you are headed for tremendous heartbreak。
and heartache.。
I mean, think about it, it's the most intimate part。
about you.。
Not only if you marry someone, if you're Christian。
and they're Jewish, not only does that challenge。
or set up lots of challenges down the road of like,。
oh, hey, the kids are coming to church now,。
then they're going to synagogue and what are we gonna do?。
Thought we were gonna raise them this way.。
It's not only logistically a nightmare,。
it is the most intimate part of you, your soul.。
And you're saying, hey, this thing that I share,。
this connection with God, this belief that I have,。
that he alone is the one that satisfies,。
that he died in my place, that I can know him,。
that I'm gonna live forever with him,。
that most intimate, incredible thing about you.。
You don't share with the person that you're married to?。
Think about how lonely that is.。
And if you know anyone who's in that spot,。
if they're honest, what happens is their faith either dies。
in that marriage or their marriage either dies.。
And either way, it leads to incredible loneliness.。
And the God who's there does not want you。
to experience that.。
Marriage will not fix your loneliness,。
it will address your singleness.。
But loneliness is a heart issue.。
And only Jesus can address that part of you.。
The best thing to do while you wait right now。
is to begin to work on the heart, the areas of your life。
where you're like, I feel like I'm looking for a solution。
in a man, I'm looking for a solution in a wife,。
I'm looking for a solution outside of Christ。
to fill some void, some loneliness that I have.。
And I think a person could fix it, and it's just a lie.。
The third and final myth is related to this idea,。
and it's this.。
Accepting Christ will fix my loneliness.。
Accepting Christ will fix my loneliness.。
Accepting Jesus as the one who came, God, became a man,。
he died in my place on the cross,。
he paid for all of my sin, everything that I've ever done。
in the past, everything I'll ever do in the future,。
everything that I've ever, every mistake I've ever made,。
it was all nailed to the cross, he paid for all of it.。
And then he died and he rose again, he came back alive,。
showing the payment was more than enough.。
Accepting that will not fix your loneliness.。
It is not accepting Christ that'll fix it,。
it is walking with Christ.。
That is the way that we battle loneliness.。
Accepting Christ doesn't battle loneliness,。
walking with him does.。
Any more than this.。
Three weeks ago, or two weeks ago, my wife and I,。
we joined a gym, thank you, and we're like,。
summer's here, this is gonna be great.。
Thank you, thank you, Mom, thank you for that support.。
It's not my mom.。
Okay, hey, and two weeks ago, we joined a gym,。
and we haven't been back to exercise yet.。
But we have gone to the pool like eight times.。
It's just become our pool.。
And as crazy as it would be if I stood before you。
and I was like, hey, here's the deal,。
or if I went to that gym and I was like, look,。
we signed up to get in shape, to get fit,。
we were told that if we signed up with this gym,。
we would get in shape.。
And they asked us, well, how many times have you come。
and used the exercise equipment?。
None, but that is not the point.。
We signed up to get in shape.。
They would say, what is wrong with you?。
And in the same way that, hey, it's not access to a gym。
that leads someone to be in good physical fitness,。
it is taking advantage of that access。
and putting it into action that leads that.。
It is not access to Christ that alone。
is gonna solve your loneliness.。
It is taking advantage of that access。
and walking with Jesus on a consistent basis.。
You cannot express that, hey, if I just accept Christ,。
you'll spend eternity with God in heaven.。
That is what the Bible teaches,。
that if you have true faith,。
if you confess with the mouth that Jesus is Lord。
and you believe in your heart God raised from the dead,。
you shall be saved.。
But it is not just having access。
to that relationship with God。
that's gonna allow you to battle loneliness.。
It is taking advantage of that access。
and acting on it, walking with him.。
Any more than I could expect to be fit。
by having a membership, by having access to Christ.。
You cannot expect to battle that loneliness。
without walking with him consistently.。
So what do I mean by walking with him?。
Here's some few things that I laid out。
as it relates to walking.。
One of the first things, if you wanna walk with God。
or walking with Christ, looks like,。
this is not an exhaustive list,。
but it at least should step you in the right direction.。
It involves confessing and repenting of sin.。
Confessing and repenting of sin.。
You cannot walk with God without a willingness。
to confess and turn from,。
which is what repent means, from sin.。
The Bible says in Matthew chapter five, verse eight,。
"Blessed are the pure in heart,。
"those who seek to purify their heart,。
"those whose hearts have been purified,。
"for they shall see God."。
In other words, the less pure of heart that you are,。
the more that you allow sin to infiltrate。
and define your heart and sit and contaminate your heart,。
the more that sin is present in your life,。
it creates a barrier of intimacy with you and God.。
It was this barrier, sin, being introduced。
that ultimately was the reason that Adam and Eve。
and mankind was separated from God.。
Anytime sin is present, it creates a barrier。
with a perfect, holy God.。
So if you continue to sin,。
some of you, the reason you feel so far from God。
is because you're addicted to pornography.。
And every time you close your eyes, you see nudity.。
You don't see a chance to pray and reflect on God.。
Some of you are in a relationship。
and God has just been so clear.。
Like you have like an anxiety about it.。
You wake up in the middle of the night sweating。
because you're like,。
"I know that I'm not supposed to be in this,。
"but I'm afraid of what will happen if I break up here."。
And it's because of a unwillingness to be obedient to him,。
you feel far from him and he didn't move, you did.。
And the God who says, "Will you confess, repent of sin,。
"will you confess, acknowledge it to God,。
"acknowledge it to him?"。
And in doing so, you have a step in the right direction。
of intimacy being restored with God.。
Walking with him means just confessing,。
acknowledging all of us, we're not perfect people.。
We need a savior.。
And so I can confess and repent and turn from that.。
Second part of walking with him,。
the second thing I included here。
is that a constant communication with him or praying to him.。
What does it look like to walk with God?。
Like, "Hey, what is it gonna mean。
"if I actually wanna battle loneliness,。
"not accepting but walking with him?"。
It means I'm gonna confess and repent of sin.。
When I see it in my life, when people point it out。
in my life, it means I'm gonna be。
in constant communication with you, God.。
God doesn't want some relationship with you。
that you see him as either the bell service。
or as the 911 call, but as a constant walkie-talkie,。
that he wants a relationship.。
Verse seven says, "Cast all of your cares on God。
"because he cares for you."。
I want you to think about this verse.。
Everything you care about, he wants you to bring that to him.。
Like, not just like, "Hey, God, I'm praying today。
"and thank you for this food。
"and I wanna pray for all the orphans in Africa。
"and I wanna pray for sick Aunt Betty."。
Everything you care about, your anxiety about work,。
your concern about your friend,。
your anxiety about what your boss may think of you,。
the presentation you have coming up,。
you hope that you get green lights on the way to work.。
I don't know if you just pray for that or not,。
but I know that he wants you to pray,。
and as you do so, he'll align your will to his.。
But he doesn't want you to hide back and say,。
"I can only bring things to him。
"that I can read a verse exactly for this in here。
"of what exactly I'm gonna pray for."。
He wants a relationship where you bring everything to him.。
God, I'm feeling lonely right now.。
God, I just wanna be married.。
I don't know how I'm gonna make ends meet financially.。
My roommate's moving out and I don't have an option。
of where I'm gonna live, and I'm anxious about it.。
Will you provide a roommate for me?。
Will you help me not be anxious?。
Everything that you feel, I mean, think about that verse.。
Some of you, you need to hear this。
more than anything else I'm gonna say,。
'cause anxiety is a part of your story,。
it's a part of your present.。
And God says, "I care about everything you care about."。
That's what the verse says.。
Cast everything, I think they have it on the screens,。
cast all of your anxieties on him because he cares for you.。
Or your translation has, cast all of your cares on him。
because he cares for you.。
Everything you care about, he cares about,。
because he cares about you,。
and he wants you to bring those things to him.。
Constant communication, not as a bellhop。
or as a room service, like, "Hey, can I get this。
"one thing here or 911 only when I'm afraid。
"is she pregnant that I'm praying?"。
But a constant communication to God.。
He wants to have with you.。
The third thing as it relates to just walking with him,。
and you'll be amazed what happens whenever you do that.。
Whenever you begin to actually pray with him,。
your awareness, it's like my awareness of his nearness。
and his presence over my life is raised.。
It's like my awareness of how much he cares about me。
and he cares about the things and my circumstances。
is raised just by praying more.。
God, will you help me right now?。
I'm about to walk up here and share,。
will you help me to be clear?。
Will you help me to get over what people think about me?。
Will you help me?。
Whatever those things are in your life,。
he wants you to bring them to him.。
The third thing,。
the component of walking with Christ。
involves trusting and obeying.。
I'm gonna trust you and obey.。
I'm gonna follow what your word says in here.。
I'm gonna walk by faith is another way of saying that.。
I'm gonna trust what you say is right,。
and I'm gonna do it.。
Romans chapter 12 verse two says,。
do not conform to the patterns of this world.。
The behavior of the world,。
don't conform to what everybody else is doing out there.。
If everybody's doing it,。
it's probably not the behavior that should mark you.。
If it's the behavior or the way of thinking。
that the world has,。
if it's like this is the common way that people think today,。
it's probably not the right one for you.。
Do not conform to the pattern or the ways of this world,。
but be transformed by the renewing of your mind.。
That's reading God's word。
and allowing the truth of what it says to transform you,。
not be conformed into what the world tells you should be.。
Then you will be able to test when you know。
what God's will is, which is what the Bible is.。
When you know what it is,。
then you'll be able to put it to the test.。
When you know what he says about sex,。
when you know what he says about,。
hey, flee sexual morality,。
don't allow that to be a part of your relationship,。
hey, that is a thing safe for marriage.。
Whenever you actually do that,。
and you're like, dude, people actually do that,。
and you're like, hey, you know what, I'm gonna try it.。
Whenever you do it,。
the Bible says, then you'll be able to put it to the test,。
and you will approve what God's will is,。
as good, pleasing, and perfect will.。
It's like whenever you begin to put it to the test,。
you're like, oh, well, I guess I'll really try this.。
It's as though the Bible's saying, hey, test me.。
You're not gonna end up being like,。
gosh, I got buyer's remorse here.。
I cannot believe I dated the way God says to date.。
I really regret my decision there.。
No one does it, Paul says.。
You begin to walk according to the ways。
that God says to walk,。
as it relates to your relationship with other people,。
as it relates to the way you use your time,。
your money, your job, the way that you think.。
Alcohol, sexuality, he's like, hey, do what I say.。
Put it to the test.。
You have a money-back guarantee.。
It works, and you will find, Paul says,。
you'll be able to test it, and you will approve it,。
because it is good, pleasing, and perfect.。
And you know what happens whenever that happens?。
When you begin to actually say,。
like, man, I'm gonna begin to take steps,。
and I'm gonna trust you, God.。
This is how you think I should handle this situation.。
I'm gonna trust you, and I'm gonna actually do it.。
Your faith will begin to grow.。
Faith is like a muscle.。
The more that you exercise it, the stronger it gets.。
And the same, and the inverse is true.。
The less that you exercise it, the weaker it gets.。
A muscle atrophies.。
If you don't use it, it's like, that's going away.。
If you use it, it's gonna get stronger and stronger,。
and grow.。
This is how faith works.。
This is why some people can walk through。
the valley of the shadow of the most painful things,。
and they're like, unshakably fixed on God.。
Because over their life, they've said,。
I'm gonna trust you, and I've seen him show up。
over and over, I've seen his ways.。
They're higher than my ways, but they're better,。
and I can trust him.。
And then there's other people,。
who slowly by slowly, they begin to step away from God.。
Maybe they step into some type of sexual relationship。
they shouldn't be a part of.。
Maybe they step through, maybe they just step through。
apathy, they're like, hey, dude, I'm gonna get back。
to being serious about my faith when I'm in my 30s,。
and kind of like, become more of an adult.。
I'll get serious about that then,。
'cause I'm really working on my career.。
And they just slowly begin to step away from God.。
And it's not overnight, like, hey, I'm outta here, deuces.。
They just drift away.。
And they wake up one day, and they're like,。
I don't even know if this whole thing is true.。
Because their faith was never exercised,。
and it weakened, just like a muscle.。
If you haven't used your legs since high school,。
men, which many of you haven't in terms of exercising,。
they're going to just atrophy and atrophy away.。
This is how faith works.。
If you don't use it, you don't lose it in an internal sense,。
but it's not growing, it weakens over time.。
And the Bible says, if you walk with God,。
your faith, begin to trust him,。
and it will grow your trust every single time.。
Become more convinced, his way is true,。
his way is true, I can trust him.。
So walking with God includes confessing and repenting,。
praying constantly, or constant communication,。
and trusting and obeying him.。
Here's what, let me be very practical,。
'cause we're about to wrap it up.。
If you're in the room, or you're listening right now,。
and you wanna know, what do I do when I'm lonely?。
Like in that moment when it just kind of reaches。
and washes over me, and I feel alone,。
I feel abandoned, I feel like no one is there,。
what do I do, very specifically in that moment?。
You go to God, and you go to God's people.。
You go to God in prayer, and you say, God, I feel alone.。
I feel like there's no one who cares about me.。
I don't even feel like you're near to me.。
I don't even know that praying to you will help me.。
You're honest, and you go to him.。
And you cry out to him, and you call out to God's people.。
You reach out to other believers in your life,。
this is why we hammer having a community group,。
in your life that can care for you,。
that in the midst of walking through loneliness,。
you can reach out and say, I feel lonely right now.。
I'm battling with lies, and I need someone,。
will you pray for me?。
Will you come, just, can we hang out, can we talk,。
can we go on a walk right now?。
I need someone in my life, and someone that you can be。
in their life, for in those moments。
where they feel loneliness grabbing ahold of their heart,。
you reach out to God's people, and to God.。
You go to him in prayer, and you reach out to his people.。
This is the way that we battle against loneliness.。
And the reason I've intentionally said battle,。
and not fix loneliness, is because in this life,。
in this world, because of sin entering,。
there's a loneliness that can be of a good thing,。
because it's a reminder of the fact。
that we have been separated from God.。
And if you're a Christian, you have been restored,。
and are being reconciled to him,。
but ultimately, it's a reminder for any of us,。
for all of us, that one day, that loneliness,。
that pain will be no more.。
It is going away, for those of you who are Christians.。
And there's coming a day where you will be home,。
and that loneliness, that sometimes,。
the reason it feels like I'm homesick,。
is because you're homesick.。
And there's gonna come a day in eternity。
where you're going home, and it will be no more.。
For others of you, you've never had a moment。
where you've actually trusted in Jesus.。
And the scary thing is that, apart from you having Christ。
as the payment for your sins,。
you're gonna spend eternity alone,。
away from God, separated fully and finally from him.。
And he doesn't want you to.。
He's crazy in love with you.。
He made that abundantly clear 2,000 years ago。
when he reset the calendar, and he died in your place.。
The reason I say eternally alone is,。
it's been described that hell。
is being totally separated and cut off.。
It's totally separated and cut off.。
I mean, in some ways, hell is just eternal loneliness.。
Think about it.。
Every good and perfect gift, James chapter one says,。
comes from the father of lights, who above.。
Basically, he's saying God.。
Every good and perfect thing comes from God.。
Every good thing comes from him.。
If you are cut off, then hell is a separation from God.。
There's nothing good there.。
You're not taking shots of Patron。
with your buddy in the devil.。
You're not hanging out with friends,。
like, kind of like, oh, this is so good,。
let's rehash that one time at the frat party.。
You're not doing any of that.。
You are cut off from humanity.。
You're cut off from God.。
You're cut off from relationships,。
'cause those are good things.。
You are totally separated,。
eternally lonely, and you don't have to be,。
because Jesus came to this earth。
and he went through eternal loneliness in your place。
so that you wouldn't have to be eternally lonely.。
He went through eternal loneliness.。
What do I mean by that?。
Maybe you've heard this before.。
You don't understand.。
When Jesus died on the cross,。
it wasn't just the crucifixion and nails were painful。
and death sucks.。
It wasn't just like, oh, that had to be a rough day.。
It was that plus the fact that he was separated。
from his Father.。
God the Father was separated from Christ the Son,。
and it says that Jesus even cried out.。
It was though Jesus felt abandoned,。
because the weight of all that sin。
pushed him away from the Father.。
He took all of the sin of humanity。
and it created separation。
between the Son and the Father.。
In Matthew chapter 27, he's on the cross,。
and one of his last statements on the cross,。
he cries out and he's experiencing separation。
from his Father like he has never felt before,。
and he quotes Psalm 22, and he says,。
"My God, my God, why have you abandoned me?"。
And the answer was that he abandoned him。
and allowed him to experience eternal loneliness。
as he was crucified on that cross。
so that you wouldn't have to forever,。
because he loves you.。
And that ache in your heart,。
if there's anything good about loneliness,。
is that it points us and reminds us that you're not home.。
There's something that no human can satisfy,。
no substance can satisfy, no money can satisfy,。
and if you don't believe that,。
live long enough and you'll see it.。
And no matter how long you live,。
one day you will see it,。
either as you experience eternal satisfaction。
'cause you're home, or eternal regret。
because you're not and you never will be.。
The solution for loneliness is not more friends,。
it's the right friends.。
Marriage cannot fix your loneliness.。
Only Jesus can do that,。
and it is walking with him every single day。
as a solution for how we fight and battle loneliness.。
I think when I think about just feeling alone,。
I'm reminded of times in my life。
where I just felt like,。
dude, nobody is actually following God.。
Like no one's actually trying to live this way,。
there's so few people.。
Like God, the world is so crazy,。
it's going to hell in a handbasket, literally,。
and the number of people that are like,。
hey, I'm all in with Jesus,。
I wanna seek to do his will,。
I wanna seek to walk with him,。
though none go with me, I will follow.。
It's like there's just no people like that.。
Like I remember at different stages,。
I remember sitting down with pastors being like,。
dude, I just feel like,。
if this is what God wants,。
there's like 20 Christians on the planet,。
and this is what I guess my lot is,。
I'm gonna have to be friends with these homeschool kids。
that smell funny,。
and there's not a single attractive Christian girl anywhere,。
and so I guess I gotta marry Mother Teresa and woo a nun,。
and is that what God has for me?。
And more than that,。
just like, it just feels alone.。
Like no one's actually trying to date this way,。
trying to live this way.。
And it's just not true.。
And so if you're here tonight,。
and you are, someone who's ever felt that,。
or wondered that, or thought that before,。
I want you to know it's just not true.。
In fact, all over, not just in this place,。
all over even right now, listening, wherever you are,。
there's people, and men and women gathered together。
who are worshiping in different locations,。
and they share the same faith as you,。
the same kindred spirit if you're a follower of Jesus,。
and they're seeking to live their lives, not perfectly,。
but with the one true God,。
and in relationship with his people.。
And they're not just in Dallas, Texas,。
they're over there in Fort Worth, Texas,。
like here's gatherings that are taking place right now,。
just so you don't,。
you're like, dude, it's just alone.。
Here's in Fort Worth, Texas,。
here's in Northwest Arkansas, in Fayetteville,。
these are gatherings of other ports and locations。
that are taking place.。
This is Houston, you can go back to Houston,。
okay or not, there we go.。
Houston, Texas, gathering in the chapel,。
H-Town, we know you, that's my hood, go to Tulsa,。
Tulsa, go to the next one, Billy,。
El Paso, Texas, where people are gathering together,。
get excited, El Porche, next one,。
the Woodlands, Texas,。
Phoenix, Arizona,。
Austin, Texas,。
Cincinnati, Ohio, Cedar Rapids, Iowa,。
Corsicana, Nashville, Tennessee,。
there's four other different places。
that we didn't even capture up there,。
and I just want you to know you're not alone,。
and here's the deal,。
the way that God is working in our world。
is far beyond anything with the different locations。
of young adults gathered, listening right now,。
listening all over the country,。
it far exceeds everything.。
That he's got people, he's got his people。
all over the place, men and women, just like you,。
who are seeking to follow him imperfectly,。
but they're striving that, hey, I wanna be。
who God calls me to be, I wanna live the abundant life。
and experience eternal life forever, you are not alone.。
He's got men and women right now that are praying to him。
in Mandarin Chinese, in Farsi, in French, in Spanish,。
his people are everywhere, you are not alone,。
and the God who's there doesn't want you to feel alone。
and to experience loneliness。
in this life or in the next,。
and he has made clear how to battle in this one。
and how he has already won the battle for the next.。
The choice is yours and mine to accept it.。
Let me pray.。
Father, I pray for every lonely heart right now in this room。
that you who know them, who know everything about them,。
you know the circumstances they feel,。
the anxieties that weigh on them,。
the future that's in store for them,。
the hairs on their head, you know the number of them,。
that you would break through the walls of loneliness now,。
you would be bigger than the pain of loneliness now,。
you would move them to step in the direction。
of your people tonight,。
and you would help us to fight,。
and you would win the battle for loneliness。
in our heart tomorrow and day by day.。
I pray for anyone in this room。
who's never put their faith in Christ,。
tonight would be their night,。
that they would know that there's a way that you have made。
so that they don't have to be eternally lonely forever,。
because you faced an eternal loneliness。
and abandonment for us.。
Thank you, God, we are unworthy of your love,。
of your sacrifice.。
I pray that anyone who's never had a moment。
where they've trusted, tonight would be their night,。
and they would experience victory and loneliness。
in this life and forever in the life to come.。
We worship you now in song, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
