[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Well, hey, hey, Porch.。
How we doing?。
All right, we're going to sync up real quick.。
Hello, Houston.。
Hello, Fort Worth.。
Hello, downtown Dallas.。
Hello, South Africa.。
How about that?。
Hello, folks in Joplin, Chicago, folks。
watching all kinds of places.。
It is good to be together.。
We're going to dive in.。
We are in the middle of a series called Anno Domini, OK?。
The Year of Our Lord.。
We're talking about stuff that happened in the time。
that our Lord walked on the face of the earth.。
AD, what was going on then?。
And I wanted to start by asking, what is going on now?。
Because I don't know if you're like me.。
You've probably been confronted by folks who are just saying,。
man, what is happening in our world?。
What has happened to our world?。
This place has gone crazy.。
The international leader of the Chilean Chief Police Union。
said there's never been a more dangerous time。
to be a police officer in America.。
Another officer was shot today in Kansas.。
Three we know were shot and killed on Sunday.。
My friend was killed two weeks ago coming up this Thursday。
here in Dallas along with four other officers.。
It's gone flat crazy in the way that this world has。
fallen apart.。
And when it starts to happen like this around us,。
near to us--。
and some of you that are closer to us。
than others in the Texas region are feeling it more than maybe。
people who are far from it.。
How about the folks in Nice, France?。
How about the folks in Paris?。
How about the folks in Orlando?。
What in the world has been going on in Turkey?。
I mean, you could go on and on and on.。
We don't have to look very far back.。
And we get to say, man, this world has gone crazy.。
And what's really crazy is that some of us。
believe that God is sovereign, he's in control,。
and he's good.。
And yet we look, and it doesn't look。
like a good and loving and powerful God is in charge。
of what's happening around here.。
It looks like the snake is loose, right?。
I mean, none of us like snakes.。
The Bible talks about how evil came into the world。
specifically through the personification of a snake.。
And we know that ever since then, and probably。
from that moment before even, snakes were not something。
you kind of looked at and go, oh, I。
want to cuddle with that thing, right?。
You all like to cuddle with snakes?。
Some people play with them, all right, and they're flat crazy.。
But most of us run from them.。
My wife and I were watching TV, the news, I don't know,。
it was five, six years ago.。
And there was a guy in Dallas that collected exotic snakes,。
and specifically poisonous ones.。
And he had a cobra.。
And this king cobra got out of whatever。
he kept it in, some case, some aquarium.。
And it was loose.。
And so after he couldn't find it for a day or so,。
he finally called the police and said, hey, just so you know,。
I don't know where my king cobra is.。
And they're like, first of all, what are you doing with a king。
cobra, right, which you weren't supposed to have in the Dallas。
city limits.。
But he said, I don't know where it is,。
and I don't want anybody to get hurt.。
And so they came out to his house, they swept this house,。
they looked in his house.。
Neighbors came by and started to say, what's going on?。
And then they made their way down the block.。
And they got to one of his neighbors,。
and they knocked on the door.。
The news media was out front.。
And the animal control knocked on her door.。
And they said, ma'am, we need to get in and look in your house.。
She goes, why do you need to look at my house?。
And they go, well, because your neighbor a couple doors down。
had a king cobra.。
It got out of his cage, and we're not really--。
she goes, what?。
Now, the way I'm going to speak might tell you。
that this person was a person of a certain ethnicity.。
And so it didn't really matter what ethnicity they were,。
all right?。
But she said, what?。
There's a king cobra in my house?。
And right then, she bolted, all right?。
She ran out her front yard, down the sidewalk, jumped in her car,。
and locked the door.。
The news cameras followed her.。
We were watching this thing.。
The news cameras followed her.。
They went to her car, and they walked up,。
and they're knocking on the door.。
A woman's trying to interview her,。
and she cracks the window about this much.。
She goes, what do you want with me?。
And they go, ma'am, we want to know.。
She goes, you just tell that snake。
he can have that house.。
I deed the house to the snake and rolled the window back up.。
We cracked up.。
And I was like, OK, I can relate to that, right?。
You got a king cobra potentially in your house.。
You're like, I now give that snake-- that king cobra。
is king of my house until you kill it,。
until it's an insurrection.。
Somebody tells me that king's dead.。
I'll come back and reclaim my property.。
You might be feeling a little bit like this.。
It looks like the snake has come into my house,。
and things are not going as I want them to go.。
And I want to check out.。
Well, I'm here to tell you that the king of kings,。
if you've been tracking with us, the one who。
is stronger than the strong man, which。
is a biblical picture of the enemy, who。
is stronger than us in our flesh, the king of kings。
has told us that we should take heart。
and that we should not be surprised。
that the snake is at work.。
And he's going to have some days when。
it looks like he is the king.。
But he's not the king.。
Our king, the year of the Lord king, is still reigning.。
And he tells you to not be overcome, but to take courage.。
And what I want to do tonight is show you。
how that can be true of you.。
A number of years ago, as I was talking like this,。
a friend of mine who is one of those creative artists。
that JP talked about us wanting to partner with in some things。
took some time, though, just to acknowledge the dichotomy that。
is out there, that there is a king of kings, Lord of lords,。
who is good and sovereign and powerful and true,。
loving and kind.。
And yet, we live in a world defined by chaos.。
And he made this video.。
Well, I'm going to make a case he does.。
Those of you guys that are watching。
and want to catch that lady, you can go to ignitermedia.org。
and you can Google chaos.。
That'll show up.。
That doesn't look like our Lord is having his year.。
It looks like the snake is on the loose.。
And I don't know about you, but you kind of wonder, man,。
how in the world do you overcome that?。
No, there's a section of scripture。
that's not in the best manuscripts.。
It's the very end of the book of Mark.。
It probably wasn't in the original scripture.。
But it talks about how people that。
are in relationship with God will。
be able to handle poisonous snakes。
and not be affected by them.。
There's some people who have built entire ministries。
on that verse very unwisely and are snake handlers.。
Now, they, as a matter of course,。
don't look to be bit by those snakes, and they shouldn't.。
Scripture talks about how we don't put the Lord our God。
to the test.。
But what I want to tell you is that the scriptures do。
tell us how we can have an antidote, an anti-venom,。
to that snake which wants to take our heart out and defeat。
us.。
I have been bitten by a poisonous snake,。
not because I'm a snake handler, but because I。
was trying to keep some people from being。
bitten by a poisonous snake.。
And I pinned this thing down, and there was some lady there。
who said, no, herpetologists don't hurt that.。
That's an innocent snake.。
And I had the snake pinned with a stick.。
I said, ma'am, that is not an innocent snake.。
That is a copperhead.。
She said, my daddy's a herpetologist.。
I know that's a good snake.。
Don't hurt it.。
You people are afraid of all kinds of snakes.。
And it was in some really soft dirt.。
And while I was sitting there, and I had the snake pinned。
down, I looked up, and I go, ma'am,。
do you see the hourglass design on the back?。
You can't really tell by the head。
that it's got that diamond shape, and you can't tell.。
And all of a sudden, I felt that thing move.。
I looked at the stick, and that soft, moist soil.。
And right when I pulled my hand up,。
that sucker came up and nailed me.。
And then I sent him to his eternal bliss。
shortly after that.。
But he sent me.。
I knew immediately.。
And I go, and the other way you can。
know that's a copperhead, because in about 15 minutes,。
my arm's going to look like Popeye.。
And it did.。
And the swelling went all the way up my left hand,。
up to my bicep.。
I went to a hospital in that little country town。
I was at.。
They said, well, there's a national shortage。
on anti-venom.。
And I go, what'd you do with the last guy that came here。
that was bitten by a poisonous snake?。
They go, well, we careflighted him to Austin.。
And so I go, well, and by the grace of God,。
we just sat there and watched it for a little bit.。
And my body, for whatever reason,。
was able, in about five hours, to just stop it。
at the very top of my bicep and start to push it back.。
And after about five or six days,。
I was able to close my hand again.。
I don't know what it was about me that。
was able to not be affected in a fatal way。
by that particular snake.。
Maybe it didn't get enough of its venom in me。
because I pulled my hand back, or whatever it was.。
I don't believe it's because I'm somehow。
specially designated by God that I can。
do something in scripture I would never do it again.。
I'd kill the snake and then show the herpetologist's。
daughter it was a poisonous snake.。
Stupid me.。
But what I wanna share with you tonight。
is the anti-venom to losing heart。
in a world like we're in today.。
I'm gonna take you to the probably best place。
in scripture for you to see the compassion of God for you,。
the length to which God has gone for you to rescue you,。
and how you can be rescued from the snake,。
both temporally and where what happens。
shortly after this section of scripture,。
eternally, you can be saved.。
We're gonna use the book of Mark to do it.。
It also shows up in Matthew 26.。
But look with me at Mark chapter 14, verse 26 and following.。
And so we are in Gethsemane.。
It is a garden there in the base of the Mount of Olives.。
If you read the scriptures, sometimes you hear。
about how Jesus went from the Mount of Olives。
to the Temple Mount, back and forth one day.。
And most of you, especially if you live。
in the United States of America,。
are used to thinking about mountains like。
Pike's Peak or some other huge mountain range.。
Like man, what's the Bible talking about。
he went back and forth?。
You know, it takes 12 hours to go up there。
to that mountain and back.。
Well, the Mount of Olives is not very big.。
It would almost be probably about twice the size。
of this building stacked on top of each other。
over a long slope.。
It's maybe a 15 minute walk from the Mount of Olives。
down to the Kidron Valley up to the Temple Mount.。
At the very base of the Mount of Olives,。
there was an olive grove.。
And it had a name in that little place.。
It's called a garden in one place.。
It wasn't a garden, there weren't many gardens。
in that part of Jerusalem.。
But it was a peaceful place and it was called Gethsemane.。
It was called that because of what olive press means.。
There's a really great reason that Jesus did。
what we're about to read that he did in Gethsemane.。
Geth is the Hebrew word, or actually the Arabic word。
for oil and shemin is press.。
So Gethsemane is oil press.。
I'm gonna show you a picture of an oil press.。
I'm also gonna tell you something else that's kinda cool.。
This is in the town that Jesus spent most of his time in.。
This was in Capernaum.。
And if you go to Capernaum today,。
you'll come across an oil press。
and you'll also right next to it have a millstone.。
So there on the left is the millstone.。
You can see there's a hole like a donut stone.。
If you put like a, imagine a beam that was put through there。
and an animal would be put on the other end of that beam。
and harnessed in and that animal would walk circles。
around that little millstone area。
and that huge stone, it's called a thalyssis,。
would crush the grain and make it flour.。
Okay, so on the left is a millstone。
and where they crush grain.。
On the right right there is an oil press, a goth shemin.。
What would happen is they would take olives。
and when you would lean that big stone back,。
you can see there's a little hole in that thing.。
When you put a beam in, two guys would tip it back,。
they'd put the olives underneath it。
and they would let that huge stone crush it。
and then the olive oil would come out that little drain。
and fill up that little basin。
and it would create a great deal of prosperity and life。
and provision for the people of Capernaum.。
So back to me.。
Couple things that are amazing about this.。
The word that shows up in John chapter 16。
where Jesus says to them,。
"These things I've spoken to you so that in me。
"you might have peace," shalom in the Hebrew.。
"In the world you will have thalyssis,。
"you will have crushing stones."。
Trials, tribulation is the way we translate it in English.。
But there are gonna be things that try and crush you.。
But take courage, for I have overcome the world.。
Now in Mark chapter 14, he is in the place。
where you're gonna find that which was the source。
of greatest provision for Israel, the olive.。
It lit their houses, it was part of their major。
industry of trade and commerce.。
It was a source of life and provision for them.。
What you're gonna find out is there is a fruit。
of the branch that is about to be crushed here。
that from that crushing will come life and provision。
and light for the people.。
And so Jesus is in the place of crushing.。
And the snake seemed to have his way.。
When the movie Passion, you guys familiar。
with the movie Passion Mel Gibson made years ago?。
When that movie was first coming out,。
there was a group of us that were asked。
to come out to Gibson Studios and watch it。
and give feedback to some of the stuff that was in there.。
And I remember watching how that movie starts.。
It starts in Gethsemane.。
And I love it because at the very beginning。
it shows that Jesus is against the snake who's coming.。
He's praying and he's warring.。
And he's at his time of greatest crisis.。
And it shows the snake that comes up。
and as he's praying and he's being tempted。
to just not trust God the Father,。
that snake is there hissing, mocking him.。
And that movie kind of starts with Jesus standing up。
and just going, stomping that snake's head.。
It's a reference all the way back to Genesis 3。
where it says that he, the serpent,。
will strike you on the heel but you will crush his head.。
There's going to be a moment in this world。
where the king of kings, the stronger one,。
crushes the strong man.。
It's gonna look like you're hit by this snake。
that you can't overcome from, but he will crush his head.。
That's exactly what happened to Jesus.。
He was bitten, if you will, by death and betrayal of men,。
but he conquered it because the wages of sin is death.。
And because Jesus was he who had no sin,。
he conquered the grave and paid the debt。
and crushed sin and death.。
What I wanna show you is how you handle。
the kind of stuff that is going on in our world today.。
And we're gonna use it,。
use this little section of Scripture.。
So here's what's happening.。
In Mark chapter 14, verse 26, it says,。
"Jesus and his disciples had left the upper room。
"and they sang a hymn, they went to the Mount of Olives.。
"Jesus told them, hey, listen, you're all gonna fall away.。
"That's what all men will do if they don't listen。
"to the antidote to the venom of the snake's presence."。
You're gonna fall away.。
You are going to be troubled.。
You're not going to have peace.。
You're gonna be overwhelmed.。
You're gonna be filled with despair.。
You're gonna find coping strategies and techniques。
either through medicating yourself。
or by pretending that trouble isn't really there。
or by joining evil.。
And what I wanna tell you today。
is that there is another tribe of people。
that are to face down evil and not be filled with despair。
whose hearts aren't gonna be troubled,。
who aren't gonna be surprised。
when they watch the snake have his day.。
Because he has not ultimately been eliminated yet.。
Jesus says he has been defeated, but he is still present.。
And you are my people to rescue folks。
from his poison of lies and deceit about me.。
And you should suffer as I have suffered.。
And you take heart, you have courage.。
For I have defeated that serpent.。
But don't be surprised.。
He said to his disciples,。
listen, you're gonna all fall away 'cause it's written,。
I'm gonna strike down the shepherd。
and the sheep will be scattered,。
but after I have been raised,。
I will go ahead of you to Galilee.。
Remember he told them right there,。
listen, I'm going to be raised from the grave.。
Even to his disciples, take heart.。
When it looks like the serpent's winning,。
he's not winning, this is my plan.。
Jesus said, no one's gonna take my life from me.。
I'm gonna lay it down and I'm gonna take it back up again.。
Jesus was not betrayed by somebody that surprised him.。
He was not overcome by people。
that were more powerful than him.。
When he was being questioned by Pilate,。
and Pilate said, don't you hear me talking to you?。
Don't you know I'm the one that has the power。
to set you free?。
Jesus, in his beaten state, I think leaned up。
and pulled him down and said, you have no authority。
except my Father in heaven has given it to you.。
Now you go and do what you're gonna do.。
And I'm gonna do what I need to do。
because I love men like you.。
But you wanna know what truth is?。
I am the truth.。
And I am the way and I am the life.。
And you better not fear man, you better fear me.。
That man's wife warned him, that's a good man.。
But because he feared man and was intimidated。
by the serpent of lies who told him,。
if you don't do what men want you to do,。
it's not gonna go well with you,。
he made a bad choice and the venom of sin took him out.。
But Jesus went forward and did what he had to do。
and defeated that serpent.。
He's telling his disciples, no one's gonna take my life.。
But Peter said, listen, even though all may fall away,。
yet I will not, Jesus said to him, truly I say to you。
that this very night before a rooster crows twice,。
you yourself will deny me three times.。
But Peter kept saying, no man,。
even if I've gotta die with you, I will not deny you.。
And they were all saying the same thing also.。
So it wasn't just Peter who denied him.。
It was all of them.。
Now there were three that were the most vocal。
about the fact that they weren't going to cave。
in the midst of the coming persecution.。
James, John, and Peter.。
And you're gonna see that Jesus pulls those three。
who were in unique positions of leadership.。
If you go and look at the listing of the disciples,。
you'll see that they're put in some groupings.。
And many people believe that what Jesus did。
is he had the 12 disciples,。
but there was even order within that.。
And Peter, James, and John were leaders of smaller groups.。
And so he invested in all 12 of them。
and in the 70 in the multitude,。
but he built into those three leaders specifically.。
And those three leaders were the most vocal。
about their passion for Jesus.。
I'm gonna tell you tonight, your passion for God,。
your passion for Jesus is not going to get you through.。
And Jesus is gonna show you what's gonna get you through。
the day of the snake.。
So these three guys are all like, hey man, here we go.。
They came to get Semeny, and he said to his disciples,。
sit here until I have prayed.。
And he took with him Peter.。
He took with him James and John.。
Peter's the one who boasted, said he would not deny him.。
James and John were the two that a little bit earlier。
had asked Jesus if they could be in positions。
of ultimate importance.。
One in his right hand, one in his left.。
And Jesus said, hey, are you willing to drink the cup。
that I'm about to drink?。
And they said, we'll drink that cup.。
We'll go through and we'll suffer the way。
you're gonna suffer to get what we want from you.。
And Jesus said, all right, you'll drink the cup.。
We'll see.。
And so Jesus took Peter and James and John,。
and he was about to show them the antidote。
to fear, failure, and despair.。
Now here's what's really great。
about what I'm about to read to you.。
What you're about to hear right here is something。
that would almost unsettle you if you weren't somebody。
who really understood the scriptures.。
If you didn't understand who Jesus was。
when he walked on this earth as the incarnate,。
that's just the word that means in the flesh,。
carnal as flesh, that he was the incarnate son of God.。
The scripture says this about Jesus,。
that Jesus always was God.。
He never stopped being God.。
But in Philippians 2, it describes this.。
It says that Jesus, who though he existed in the form of God,。
he did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped.。
Sometimes words are really helpful.。
You know, you go to a zoo, you see a monkey,。
and they can swing with their hands,。
and they also grab a bar with their tail.。
And if you ever sometimes read about a monkey,。
you will find that a monkey has what's called。
a prehensile tail.。
A prehensile tail means a tail that can grab like an arm.。
That comes from the Greek word which means to grab.。
We take the English word, it's a transliteration.。
We take a word trans, which means across, literally,。
and we use it.。
And so prehensile is a word。
that just basically means to grab.。
It says Jesus didn't grab on to his deity。
because he was a good and loving king.。
Let me just say this.。
As you start to evaluate your leaders,。
here's one of the things you wanna look for.。
What most men do is they want power。
so they could lord that power over people.。
Small men use their power to maintain their power.。
Great men use power to serve the people underneath them.。
It's why so many politicians are always telling you。
what they're gonna do for you,。
but then when they get up there,。
all they really try and do is please the most constituents。
so they can stay in power.。
One of the problem is is we've got a bunch of politicians。
who are telling you what you wanna hear。
instead of statesmen who do what the state needs.。
You wanna evaluate leaders?。
Evaluate your leaders by asking yourself,。
is this guy really concerned with me。
or is he just looking for power?。
And it's hard to tell because they are selling.。
Ladies, let's leave the presidential election for a second。
and let's talk about dating.。
When you meet a guy, he is politicking, all right?。
He is selling.。
He is looking for your vote.。
He wants you to install him in the presidential office。
of being your bae right there, all right?。
(congregation laughing)。
And he wants to be your man.。
And so if all you do is watch him on the campaign trail,。
you do not have enough data.。
(congregation laughing)。
All right?。
So what you've gotta do。
is you don't watch the way he treats you。
and you don't watch the way he talks to you。
with his stump speech, all right?。
Often while he slides you a cold one。
that will numb you to reality.。
You wanna watch the way that guy treats people。
who can do nothing for him.。
You wanna watch that guy's history.。
Does he have a history of people who he's close to。
and who he serves and he gives himself a way toward。
and the best predictor of future performance。
is past performance.。
It's not a guarantee,。
but if all you do is listen to the stump speech,。
then you're gonna get exactly what you deserve.。
What Jesus is gonna show you。
is that he uses power correctly.。
For even the son of man, Mark 10, 45 says,。
to not come to be served, but to serve。
and to give his life away as a ransom for many.。
Because it says, "Jesus, though he was God,。
"he didn't regard equality with God a thing to be grasped,。
"but he emptied himself."。
In other words, he chose not to allow himself,。
though he was still God, to act like God,。
meaning that he could do what he wanted to do。
when he wanted to do it, and he took the form,。
watch this, this is theology for you,。
he took the form of a bond servant。
and being made in the likeness of a man。
and being found in appearance as a man,。
he humbled himself by becoming obedient。
to the point of death, even death on a cross.。
And he did this because he cares for you。
and he hates the snake.。
And so Jesus remained God, but he allowed himself,。
he emptied himself of his right in the incarnation。
to act as God would act when he wanted to act,。
and he put himself like a man.。
What's a man gotta do?。
He has to depend on God.。
Without God, he will be overwhelmed with despair.。
Without God's word, he will be overwhelmed。
with sin and deceit.。
Without the spirit, he will lack power.。
And so Jesus is the illustration of what a perfect man does.。
And Jesus can identify with you as you are tempted。
to cave in when you are intimidated by the snake,。
who will tell you that God doesn't love you,。
God doesn't care about you,。
he didn't have your best interest in mind,。
if he did, this would not be your circumstance,。
why are you worshiping a God you can't see?。
Look at me, I'm the powerful one,。
I'm the one that's causing havoc all around here,。
you better align yourself with me.。
I'm the one that can give you。
immediate feedback and pleasure.。
God isn't good, his word's not true,。
and disobeying him is not that big a deal.。
I disobeyed him and I'm prince of this world.。
That is true.。
But the King of Kings and Lord of Lords。
is gonna say, you're gonna rule for a while,。
but I'm gonna run your little King Krober self。
out of that house when it's time for me to run,。
I know right where you're hiding.。
And I'm gonna defang you, and I'm gonna slap you silly,。
and I'm gonna enthrone myself forever,。
and the reason I'm not doing that right now。
is because if I came to judge wickedness。
all over the world, people have asked me this,。
some of you guys know we do a thing。
called Real Truth Real Quick,。
and one we did recently was,。
why doesn't God stop all these mass shootings。
and acts of terror?。
Here's the reason, because we call evil。
things that are evil to us,。
but we're not the standard of evil.。
If God came to judge evil,。
things like mass shootings and terror,。
he's gonna judge all mass rebellion against him,。
and all terror, but it's not just。
when some guy storms into a nightclub,。
or some guy takes an AR-15 and starts shooting。
at what we call innocent people,。
or when some guy mows down a bunch of folks。
watching a firework show, we call that evil,。
but how many folks the night that Orlando Killer。
in Florida was shooting folks。
were acting in a way that was immoral and offensive to God?。
I'm not talking just about in a homosexual nightclub,。
I'm talking about all over Miami,。
I'm talking about all the heterosexual rebellion。
that was there, I'm talking about all the guys。
that weren't at home with their wives,。
I'm talking about the guys that were home。
with their families and were being unkind to them,。
I'm talking about the rich people。
on their little Miami Beach houses。
that didn't care about the poor and distressed among them,。
I'm talking about everything that God says is evil,。
and when we say, God, why don't you stop evil,。
we better realize that that would include us,。
because the standard is not Hitler to me, it's God to me,。
and I don't meet that standard,。
and the Bible tells us why God has not yet。
run the King Cobra out of the house,。
that's 'cause a lot of us have his blood flowing through us,。
and until we get the antidote。
of Christ's righteousness for ours,。
we would all be under judgment,。
and so the scripture says,。
God is not slow as some count slowness,。
but is patient towards you,。
because he desires that none should perish,。
but that all should come to eternal life,。
but what he tells you is that while you're in the world。
and you come to recognize the kindness of God,。
that he would give himself for you,。
that he would go before you,。
and he would defeat the strong man that you can't defeat,。
because he's the stronger one,。
that he would slap sin silly,。
that he would defeat death and sin,。
he would pay your wage that you could never pay,。
when you acknowledged your debt to God,。
and see his provision for you,。
and you trust in it, and you become his,。
he says then, stay here and serve me,。
and you take heart,。
and you be filled with peace,。
knowing that you've got the antidote to sin.。
There may still be some evil that slays you,。
and saws you in half,。
this world may not go like you like it,。
but you faithfully serve me,。
and it's gonna be hard sometimes,。
because it's gonna look like。
the king cobra has taken over the house.。
Here's the antidote.。
Here's how you can be a person。
who doesn't get overwhelmed with despair,。
you go, Todd, you don't know despair,。
you don't know the pain that I've had,。
you don't know where I've been bit。
with the venom of sin in this world.。
I'm gonna show you somebody who does.。
There could not be stronger words used。
than the words we're about to read.。
It says that he began to be very distressed.。
The word that is there is not important。
how you pronounce it in the Greek,。
it just means he was frozen,。
he was stuck in fear.。
The word is distressed, but it is a very strong word.。
It means that he was absolutely overwhelmed。
with the awe of terror.。
It's like frozen in his tracks.。
This is who Jesus was, this is the way it describes him.。
It says Jesus became very distressed,。
stuck with terror, and troubled.。
This is an amazing word.。
This means to be very filled with heaviness, great anguish.。
There's three words that are translated depression。
in your Bible, this is the strongest.。
It's a compound of two words.。
One is a kratos, which means unmixed,。
and the other one, I give it to you。
'cause you recognize it, hades, which means hell.。
What it's saying, if you literally translated this,。
is that Jesus began to be frozen with terror.。
He was filled with unmixed hell.。
It wasn't deluded at all.。
And he said to them, my soul, my psyche,。
my very inner being is deeply grieved。
to the point of death.。
That word shows up 17 times in your Bible every time.。
It means death.。
I have no strength, I am frozen, I am unable.。
This is unmixed hell.。
You guys, we say it all the time, this is hell on earth.。
Jesus has experienced that.。
I'm gonna show you why he's experiencing that,。
because he knew that he was moving to something。
that he had never experienced before his entire life.。
It was one thing for Jesus to come to earth。
and identify as a man, but man has the ability。
and the privilege and the freedom。
to have a relationship with God, do you know that?。
Do you guys know that?。
God is here, he is a very present God.。
He longs to have a relationship with you.。
God wants a relationship with you。
more than you will ever want a relationship with him.。
And Jesus, because he's the perfect man,。
always sought that relationship,。
because he had nothing to do with deceit and error.。
He was a man who knew no sin,。
and men who knew no sin must know God.。
And so even though Jesus was a man,。
he was a man who knew no sin,。
and men who knew no sin must know God.。
And so even though Jesus was God,。
he did not use his own Godness as ability to get through,。
but as a perfect man, he always trusted in God the Father.。
He had never been apart from God.。
He had a peace that passed understanding,。
because in everything, with prayer and supplication,。
through thanksgiving, he let his request be made known。
to God and the peace of God comforted him.。
And then, lastly, whatever is excellent。
and worthy of praise, he let his mind。
meditate on those things.。
That doesn't mean that Jesus never looked at porn.。
It means that Jesus always was aware of the fact。
that there was a loving, sovereign Father。
that knew that this world has been spinning out of control,。
not just since some guy uncorked his madness。
in Dallas a while ago,。
or not since Hitler killed six million Jews,。
or not because Stalin killed tens of thousands of people。
every single day during his communist takeover of Ukraine,。
there's been hell and trouble on this earth。
ever since man stopped enjoying his relationship with God。
and said, "I'll do business with the snake,"。
and the venom of sin has been running through us.。
And so we've been self-centered, hateful, destructive people。
to one another, missing out on the peace that God intends.。
Jesus knew he was about to go someplace。
where he was going to be separated from the Father。
because the Scripture says he was going to become sin。
on our behalf.。
The Scripture says God made him who knew no sin。
to become sin on our behalf,。
that we might become the righteousness of God in him.。
Why?。
Because Jesus used his power, he used his eternal perfection。
to pay for you what you, in your damned, sinful state,。
could never pay for yourself.。
This is the Scripture that is saying,。
watch the love of God.。
You wanna know what the love of God has looked like?。
This is it.。
It's not like, you better behave long enough, well enough,。
so that I approve of you.。
No, the love of God is that there is no way。
that you could ever be perfect.。
When you've got the venom running through your body,。
you have death running through your body,。
and what you need is to be born again.。
And I am a God who is slow to anger,。
I'm abounding in love and kindness,。
but I wanna tell you what, I gotta deal with reality,。
and reality is there is death in you,。
and there's rebellion against me, and so I am a just God.。
And so I've gotta pour out my wrath on your sin.。
And so how's God deal with that?。
The Scripture says this way.。
In the person of the Son, I will still maintain my Godness,。
but I will put it aside and not hold on to it,。
and I will take on the likeness of a man。
and being found in the appearance of a man.。
I will walk as a man.。
I will feel the hiss of the enemy.。
I will feel the venom of sin all around me.。
I will feel the taunt of temptation。
to believe that God is not there and he's forgotten me,。
and I will abide with him, I will walk with him,。
and I will live a sinless life,。
and I will pay the debt of sin,。
and I will go to death so that the wages of sin can be met,。
so that the free gift through God。
can be eternal life through Christ Jesus.。
Folks, let me just tell you what's so amazing。
about this series, listen to me.。
This is not just a story,。
I'm not just some Greek mythological,。
narrative spinner, I'm not Homer。
trying to weave some story to motivate you to go to war.。
What I am telling you is you go look at history,。
and God in his kindness has decided to pivot history。
on the year of the Lord.。
And this stuff is anchored in history.。
What you have in the Bible。
is not a bunch of religious men writing,。
you have eyewitness accounts of what happened in history.。
You don't believe the ones that made it into our Bible?。
Read Secundus, read Tacitus, read Josephus, read history.。
There was a man named Jesus who lived,。
who performed miracles, who fulfilled prophecy,。
who was crucified by Pontius Pilate,。
and who appeared to many having risen from the dead.。
And I'm here to tell you that our Lord lives,。
and he said, "Having now saved you from death,。
"there's gonna be others who hear my story of reconciliation。
"and I want you to suffer with me。
"and live in this world still filled with trouble。
"until I close up history,。
"'cause there are some who don't know that story.。
"But you will be overwhelmed with despair。
"and you will not be able to stay and watch。
"if you do not do what Jesus does."。
And so here we go.。
It says, "My soul is deeply grieved to the point of death,"。
then verse 34, "Remain here and keep watch."。
There's a reason that that shows up.。
Keep watch, keep watch, be on the alert, be on the alert.。
And he went a little beyond them and fell to the ground。
and began to pray that if it were possible,。
the hour might pass by him.。
This hour that was deeply distressing him,。
it was the hour when he became sin.。
And the Father in that moment turned himself from him.。
And to Jesus, that is what had him filled with distress.。
It wasn't that there was an enemy。
that was filling men with deceit。
and power hungry men that were gonna use their power。
to try and destroy somebody that threatened their positions.。
What scared Jesus was not death in the world.。
What scared Jesus is being separated from the God。
who alone is the author of life,。
for even a moment when he became sin for you and I.。
And so he said, "Father, if there's any other way。
"that we can pull this,"。
remember he knew the plan from eternity past,。
but he's saying right now, "Father, Father,。
"all things are possible for you.。
"Remove this cup from me, yet not what I will,。
"but what you will, because in my humanness,。
"I don't wanna go through with this.。
"In my perfect God-man state,。
"I know how much I need you to be separated from you。
"is anguish, and I don't wanna be apart from you。
"for a moment, I never have been, even on earth.。
"As a man, I've trusted in you。
"and abided with you continually."。
That's why he had no sin.。
(congregation laughing)。
And he said, "Being separated from you。
"is gonna be unmixed hell."。
That's what separation from God always is.。
But he came back, verse 37, he found them sleeping,。
and he said to Peter, watch this,。
Simon, now watch, it's interesting,。
he said to Peter, "Simon," now why does he do that?。
In Mark chapter three, it's when he calls the disciples,。
and he says to one of them, "Your name is Simon,"。
which means to hear, "Hear my calling on you,。
"and I will make you a rock, I will make you Peter.。
"As you follow me and trust in me,。
"I will build you on a rock, and I will make you a rock,。
"and people will marvel at your strength,。
"but Peter, you're gonna become a strength,。
"Simon, when you hear me."。
And what is happening at this moment is Peter, the rock,。
was not a rock because he wasn't listening。
to the command of the king.。
And he was that weak person again.。
That's what all men are, I don't care how long,。
and how much I and other leaders at this ministry。
and other ministries or any other place。
where you see people who are walking with God,。
I don't care how long you've walked with God,。
the second that I stop abiding with Jesus。
and depending on Jesus and being watchful and prayerful。
and in community with his people,。
I am gonna become somebody who is deaf to the truth。
and the goodness of God, and I will become powerless,。
and I will not have my life built on the rock,。
I will be overcome, I will not have peace,。
I will give in to tribulation, and I will cause tribulation.。
That's why Jesus said, man, apart from me,。
you can do nothing.。
The beginning of wisdom is the fear of the Lord.。
That doesn't mean you're scared of God,。
it means that you're scared of the idea。
that'll be separated you even from a moment.。
He said, Peter, you're acting like Simon,。
a man that doesn't know me and doesn't trust in me.。
Are you asleep?。
Wake up.。
Couldn't you keep watch for even an hour?。
Keep watching and praying。
that you don't come into temptation.。
The spirit is willing, Peter, but the flesh is weak.。
And it says again, he went away and prayed,。
saying the exact same words,。
Father, I don't wanna be separated from you.。
Nothing is more horrifying to me。
than to be separated from you.。
But not my will, but your will be done.。
And again, he came and he found them sleeping,。
for their eyes were very heavy,。
and they did not know what to answer him.。
Let me just make a little note.。
This happens three different times.。
I think the reason that Jesus chose Peter, James, and John。
to be with him at that moment。
is they were the most vocal disciples.。
Hey, we'll drink the cup of suffering.。
Hey, I don't care if everybody else abandons you,。
I'm willing to die for you.。
Those men were passionately in their flesh。
in love with Jesus, but watch this.。
Passionate devotion to God is not going to be enough.。
Humble obedience is what it takes。
to be a person who is not overcome by sin and temptation.。
Let me say that to you again.。
We don't in here on Tuesday nights。
try and work you up into some emotional fervor。
that will carry you until the next porch day.。
Or because we're just a part of the church。
until Sunday.。
What we're trying to ask you to do。
is to know the goodness of God and to walk with him,。
and to abide with him, to not leave here。
in a fit of religious fervor,。
and then eventually drift back into the ways of the world,。
and walk in the counsel of the wicked,。
and stand in the path of sinners,。
and sit in the seat of scoffers,。
only to be jerked out of it on Sunday,。
back to some obedience,。
and then only have two days to make it back to the porch。
where you can be strong and passionate for Jesus again.。
No, what we're telling you to do is be watchful and pray.。
And when your heart is overcome,。
to make sure you do what Jesus did here,。
you run to God in jubility,。
and you surround yourself with his people。
who encourage you and remind you of what is true.。
That is how you don't give in to despair。
and the intimidation of the serpent.。
There's so much for us to learn right here.。
And I'll say this to you.。
Sometimes people, even in the way that they marry,。
when we have folks that are kind of going through。
what we call merge here at Watermark,。
or they get ready to get married,。
and sometimes I just say to people,。
man, what's your plan?。
How do you guys, what's your plan。
for having a successful marriage?。
You go, we're just gonna love each other.。
That's wonderful, I'm glad that you're gonna love each other.。
And how you gonna do that?。
Oh, I won't tell you, Tom, we love each other.。
I mean, Romeo and Juliet, I mean, those guys,。
they're like platonic relationships compared to us.。
I mean, we're all in, right?。
No two people have ever loved each other.。
We hang out and say, isn't she beautiful?。
Right, they got that thing, you know,。
like how they call the wild, look at each other,。
like, oh.。
And they think that they're gonna be fine。
from here on out going forward.。
And I just look at them, I go, hey, bro,。
let me just tell you something.。
I don't care how much you feel like right now。
you love her and cherish her.。
You're gonna have to learn to die to yourself。
and not just get carried away by some emotion.。
Because that feeling is gonna fade, man.。
And if you don't have something stronger than how you feel,。
that relationship won't last.。
If you don't learn to love her with an everlasting love,。
if the love that's informing you。
is not the love of the flesh and the love of youth,。
but if it's not the love of Christ,。
if you're not willing to love her。
the way Christ loves the church,。
how did Christ love the church?。
It wasn't because she was beautiful.。
It was while the church was still the center,。
he demonstrated his love for her.。
He cherished her and honored her.。
He willingly and unconditionally and in grace。
moved towards her and in his desire to redeem her。
and made her beautiful with his affection。
and provision and selflessness.。
That's the biblical picture of love.。
Love is patient and kind.。
It doesn't boast, it's not arrogant.。
It's not jealous.。
It doesn't take into account a wrong suffered.。
It doesn't act unbecomingly.。
It's not provoked.。
It doesn't seek its own.。
Not a single one of those descriptors of love。
have anything to do with how you feel.。
It's everything to do with how you will to act.。
And the only way that you can will to love somebody。
biblically is when you know what love looks like biblically.。
And love is defined by a cross,。
not by some love song on the edge of a dock。
under some full moon.。
And so don't tell me about your passion for one another.。
You tell me about your passion for Jesus。
because of the love expressed to you for him。
and that you wanna follow him and love others。
with the love which he has loved you.。
And then your relationship has a chance.。
That's why Jesus begs you.。
Man, I don't care who you marry, but I wanna beg you.。
Please, please don't give yourself uncovenant。
with somebody who isn't covenant with me。
because they will not be able to love you。
the way that you deserve to be.。
I've designed you to be loved.。
Find somebody who already is loved by me。
and you might have a chance if they continue。
to abide with me to have an abiding relationship。
with one another.。
(congregation laughing)。
Jesus shows us how to pray。
and he shows us that we must pray.。
You'll notice that from this moment when they get up,。
the disciples go every direction。
except the direction that Jesus calls them to do.。
It's because they were not watchful。
and they were not praying.。
Jesus reminds us in Gethsemane that if we do not pray,。
we do not have an opportunity.。
You will always do the reasonable thing。
if you are not somebody who does the right thing,。
which is to pray.。
The reasonable thing for Jesus to do。
was gonna say this doesn't make any sense for me,。
the son of God, to go to a cross.。
As a man, it makes no sense.。
If I was Peter, I would've done the exact same thing。
when he said, I know who you are.。
You're the Christ, the son of the living God.。
And Jesus says, blessed are you, Simon.。
You've heard me tell you who I am.。
You've watched what I have done。
and I'm gonna make you a rock。
and on the rock of profession, I'm gonna build my church.。
And then Jesus goes on to say this,。
but listen, the son of man is gonna go。
and he's gonna deliver himself up。
to the Roman authorities and the Jewish authorities。
and he's gonna be crucified.。
Right after Peter said, I know who you are,。
you're God in the flesh,。
God in the flesh said, that's right, Peter.。
I'm gonna go and I'm gonna give myself for you。
that you might be redeemed.。
Peter said, God forbid it, Lord.。
No, there's no way you're going to a cross.。
That makes no sense.。
And then Jesus says to him, the Lord rebuke you。
'cause you're listening to the lie of the serpent。
that you go right to the crown。
in exaltation without the cross.。
Peter, listen to me, people, listen to me.。
This is not a mystery.。
The Christian worldview is the only worldview。
that makes sense.。
I have been in rooms with Christopher Hitchens。
who wrote the book, God is the Son of Man.。
I have been in rooms with Christopher Hitchens。
who wrote the book, God is Not Great,。
trying to explain why he thought it was crazy。
to believe in God and I have listened。
to intellectual reason after intellectual reason。
be given to him.。
I've heard Christopher Hitchens say,。
hey, listen, let me just tell you something.。
There is no other philosophy in the world。
that is consistent, congruent, logical, and coherent。
except the Christian faith.。
I understand your arguments.。
I can't really come against those arguments。
except I look at this world filled with chaos and sin。
and I choose to reject the Christian explanation。
and therefore I don't think there's a God.。
What he said is against all evidence。
that can be tested and verified,。
I reject it because it doesn't make sense to me.。
But I acknowledge it's consistent, congruent, and coherent.。
But it's not the way I would do it if I was king.。
Well, guess what, Christopher, you're not king.。
And to you, I would say you're not king either.。
And in this world, there's gonna continue to be trouble.。
You might have said I wouldn't do this if I was God。
and here's the thing, all of us,。
we're here in this world filled with sin。
because we have chosen to walk away from God.。
We aren't just suffering of trials and tribulations,。
we're causing them, every single one of us does。
when we don't abide with Christ and walk closely with him.。
(congregation laughing)。
When God revealed himself to Moses。
and Moses said, "Tell me who you are,"。
he said, "I am who I am."。
The Hebrew is Yahweh, I am who I am.。
I always was and I always will be.。
And Moses, the reason the people are oppressed。
is because the people aren't walking with me.。
I'm gonna show the world who I am。
through my working in you and through you.。
I'm gonna deliver you, I'm gonna go before you。
and I'm gonna do what you can't do.。
You are a slave to a king in this world who oppresses you。
but I'm gonna defeat that king.。
I will open the way for you.。
I will miraculously create an opportunity。
for you to be set free.。
Trust in me.。
You tell the people the I am who has always been sovereign。
even in this world of sin has come to set them free.。
When Jesus showed up a little bit later。
and they asked him who he was, he said,。
"I and the Father are one."。
And Jesus consistently said, "I am."。
And there is trouble here and I have come to defeat it.。
And I understand the pain that you're in.。
Do you understand this?。
I'm gonna read you one last little bit of scripture。
and we're gonna close.。
It comes in Hebrews chapter five.。
It's amazing little section of scripture。
because it says something happened here.。
The thing I love about my God is that my God knows。
what it's like not to be a God.。
My God knows what it's like to be stuck in a world。
where the serpent still has his way.。
And so what he's begging you to do。
in the midst of your distress and your trouble。
and your despair and your literal hell on earth。
is to listen to him.。
The world is filled with chaos。
because men don't walk with me.。
Sin and death reign and rule.。
Darkness and hate are here。
because you've rejected light and love.。
I am the antidote to sin and hate.。
I can set you free.。
I have redeemed some and my people who will walk with me,。
not in passion but in humble obedience,。
can be salt and light.。
And they won't be destructive and selfish.。
They may still make some mistakes.。
They'll acknowledge those mistakes.。
They'll repent of those mistakes.。
They'll make amends and they will begin。
to abide with me again.。
They will confess their sins to one another。
and they will be healed.。
They will extend forgiveness and receive forgiveness.。
And they will suffer because they are still in this world。
as aliens and strangers, missionaries for me,。
ambassadors, if you will, pleading as if God himself。
was pleading through them to redeem them。
from the venom of sin and rebellion against God.。
And he says, Todd, don't be worried.。
Don't be distressed.。
I can't tell you that your family's not gonna be shot.。
I can't tell you your daughters aren't gonna be raped.。
I can't tell you that your spouse,。
who's been faithful for 25 plus years,。
won't go crazy tomorrow.。
If she doesn't abide with me, I don't know what she'll do.。
I can tell you to not be overcome。
by fear and by sin.。
Because I love you.。
I've redeemed you.。
And I've left you here to fulfill。
what is lacking in my sufferings.。
What that means is Jesus isn't here physically anymore.。
Jesus paid for the sin and death of the world.。
And now his spirit indwells those who believe。
and we are the people that are to carry on。
while the serpent still hisses rebellion against God.。
Watch why you can approach him.。
Hebrews four, verse 14 says,。
therefore, since we have a great high priest,。
speaking of Jesus, who has passed through the heavens,。
Jesus, the son of God, let us hold fast to our confession.。
For we don't have a high priest who can't sympathize。
with our troubles, with the crushing stone。
that is heavy upon us, but one who's been tempted。
in all things as we are, yet without sin.。
Therefore, let us draw near with confidence。
to the throne of grace, that we might receive mercy。
and find grace to help in a time of need.。
Do you know what's so amazing?。
My God understands how hard it is to be a guy。
who lives in a world where the serpent is still winning.。
He knows how scary it is.。
He knows how overwhelming it is.。
He knows what it's like to live in unmixed hell.。
And he says, stay strong, take heart.。
I've overcome the world.。
This momentary light affliction.。
Will soon pass away.。
And there will be a greater glory.。
But Todd, walk with me.。
You be a source of grace to others.。
You tell people of my kindness and love for them.。
Look what it says down there in chapter five,。
in verse seven and eight.。
It says, in the days of his flesh, talking about Jesus,。
he offered up both prayers and supplications。
with loud crying and tears to the one。
who was able to save him from death.。
And he was heard because of his devotion to God.。
Just like you should be, Peter, James, John, church.。
Be watchful and pray.。
Watch this.。
Although he was a son,。
he learned obedience from the things which he suffered.。
What that just simply means is this,。
is that God learned something when he was on earth.。
How can the omniscient one learn something?。
God has never experienced what it's like to not be God。
until he decided to not regard equality with God。
a thing to be grasped.。
And he learned how hard it was to be a man.。
Now he knew that intellectually.。
But I'm here to tell you, he experienced it personally.。
And he also experienced the wages of your sin.。
The thing which horrified Jesus more than anything else。
was the possibility that he could be separated from God,。
even from a moment.。
What's amazing is that some of you guys here,。
you're not only just worried about not being separated。
from God for a moment,。
you've never done business with God once.。
And what I'm gonna tell you is that right now。
is your heaven.。
This isn't hell for you, this is your heaven.。
Because the grace of God is at work.。
There are people of God who are bringing healing and hope。
and singing songs and who aren't evil towards you.。
There's grace at work all around this world.。
If you're separated from God, you need to know something.。
You're experiencing your heaven and you're about to,。
if you die apart from God's provision for your sin,。
you're about to experience the torment。
that Jesus was afraid of for a moment forever.。
And so today is the day of salvation for you.。
Today is the day that you've gotta say,。
hey listen, I better respond to this love of God.。
I better learn from Jesus to be watchful and pray.。
First of all, to watch my sin before God。
and know it deserves judgment.。
I better pray for forgiveness and I better accept Jesus。
as the means for my forgiveness.。
And then for those of you that have already said。
that you've accepted Jesus' forgiveness,。
you are going to be overwhelmed。
and you're not going to be faithful and on watch。
if you don't maintain an abiding relationship with him.。
Don't tell me your passion's gonna get you through, Peter.。
You watch and pray.。
You run with his people.。
We're gonna give you a chance to do that here。
in community with other believers in just a moment tonight.。
But I wanna close by giving those of you。
that have never trusted in God to do that tonight.。
Because what you see in Jesus' suffering here。
is you see a glimpse of how the omniscient, perfect,。
all-wise one knows how horrible it is。
to be separated from God for an instant.。
And if you've never been reconciled to God,。
then you are still judged already。
and are destined to eternal separation from him.。
And there is nothing on earth。
which can give you a real taste of that.。
We don't know what unmixed hell looks like.。
Nice, Paris, Orlando, Dallas, Baton Rouge,。
your rape is just a taste.。
And God wants to rescue from that.。
And the only way he can do it is through Jesus.。
Father, I pray that there's anybody in this room。
that has never really understood your love,。
your kindness and your goodness and your willingness。
to experience what it's like to be a man in a world。
not run by the perfection of heaven.。
But because you came and you didn't regard equality with God。
a thing to be grasped, but you emptied yourself。
and you took on the likeness of a man。
and being found the appearance of a man,。
you humbled yourself and you gave yourself。
after knowing what was coming,。
you just said, okay, Lord, I'm gonna go.。
I'm gonna let the wrath of God be poured out on me。
because I love Todd Wagner,。
because I love all those folks who are gonna be at the porch。
on July 19th, 2016.。
I'm not gonna run the snake out of earth yet。
because there's still some people。
that have his venom running through their blood。
and I wanna deliver them。
and I wanna rescue them,。
I wanna give them the antidote to sin,。
which is the blood of Jesus Christ,。
that they would appropriate into their life。
because in humility, they would cry out,。
oh God, forgive me.。
That cross that you went to, that's my cross.。
That death that you experienced, that's my death.。
The fangs that pierced you were my sin and my choices.。
And so Lord, I thank you that you and your kindness。
have not done away with mass shootings and terror yet。
because if you did away with all terror,。
you would have done away with me.。
And so Lord, I come to you as a person。
who has acted in rebelliousness and terror and mass sin。
and I ask your forgiveness.。
And I don't know why you would choose to love me,。
but Lord, I hear this story, I hear you did,。
that you demonstrated your love for me。
and that while I was yet a sinner,。
you went to the cross for me.。
Lord, thank you that Jesus was watchful。
and prayerful for me.。
That he could be sin on my behalf.。
Would you help me now, along with the other believers。
in this room, to abide with you, to continually pray,。
to not to have a fit of fervor,。
say I'm gonna walk with you forever,。
but to in a fit of wisdom, humble myself continually。
with God's people to remain on watch.。
Would our faith make us strong。
and would our God be glorified as a result in Jesus' name?。
Amen.。
(congregation applauding)。
So that God, he just says, look, I am who I am.。
I've always been God, I always will be God.。
You can trust in me.。
Here's what we do is we're watchful and pray.。
We keep reminding ourself, we encourage each other。
day after day, as long as it's called today,。
so we'll be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin,。
by the venom of the one who says God's not good,。
his word's not true, you can't trust him.。
Disobeying him is not that big a deal.。
It's a big deal.。
It'll cost you everything.。
And if you've trusted in him,。
it'll cost others who God intends to hear,。
you lift up the song of God to them from hearing.。
And a loving father does not take kindly to people。
who he asks to sing who remain mute.。
He says, their blood's on our hands。
when we take the antidote and don't share it with others.。
The psalmist said it this way,。
don't be envious of evildoers.。
Do not fret because of evildoers.。
Don't be envious of wrongdoers,。
for they will wither quickly like the grass。
and they will fade like the green herb.。
Instead, trust in the Lord and do good.。
Dwell in the land and cultivate faithfulness.。
Delight yourself in the Lord.。
Seek him and be watchful and pray.。
And only when you are reconciled to him。
will you have that peace that Jesus was heartbroken。
that he was gonna lose for a moment.。
He'll give you what your heart desires,。
love and light and life and hope.。
But you've gotta come.。
You've gotta sing.。
And Jesus doesn't want you to do that alone.。
That's why we have community groups here.。
If you're not connected to a church,。
would you connect with us?。
Tonight we've got open community groups.。
Guys, there's gonna be a sign。
that just points you right down that way.。
This little room right around this direction。
is an open community group for guys.。
That way you can just walk in and say,。
man, I gotta find some other guys。
who can be watchful and pray for me.。
Girls, you can head that way.。
If you're here as a college student, man,。
we wanna build into you while you're here for the summer.。
Some of you guys are gonna be with us all year。
and we're gonna keep meeting with you.。
But on the second floor of the tower,。
you just go up to the second floor。
and you walk straight across that little bridge。
that goes across.。
There's gonna be folks over there just to hang out with you。
if you're the college age group tonight.。
So you go over there and you start to encourage each other。
the remaining days that you're here。
and make plans for going back。
and finding folks to be faithful there.。
If you've never come to the one who came for you,。
would you come up here and let us talk to you tonight?。
Open community groups, guys.。
Open community groups, girls.。
College, second floor of the tower.。
All who are weary and heavy laden。
and who have venom of death and sin running through them,。
would you just come right here?。
Come to Jesus.。
God bless you guys.。
Be filled with his spirit, not your passion.。
By the grace of God, go and have a great week of worship.。
We'll see you.。
