(phone ringing)。
- You have seven unheard messages.。
- Hey, sorry I haven't texted.。
I'm just not really sure what I'm feeling right now.。
- Hey, yo Danny!。
Where you at, bro?。
I'll see you soon, all right?。
- Hey, so I have moved on,。
but I feel like the Lord keeps putting you back。
on my heart for a reason.。
So please call me back.。
- Hey, bro, hey, I know you're going through it right now,。
but listen, I found another girl at the farmer's market now.。
She's not a farmer, but she is on the market, okay?。
So hit me back, love you, bro.。
- No, I'm sure this is the right number,。
but last night was a mistake.。
I was just hoping we could keep that between us.。
- Hey, just wanted to say,。
I don't think I can make it tonight.。
Yeah, I've just been thinking about us a lot lately。
and we need to talk.。
(phone ringing)。
- All right, Porsche, how are we doing tonight?。
You doing okay?。
It's great to see you.。
If you've been here before, welcome back.。
And if you are new to the room,。
let me be hopefully not the first,。
but one among many who says we're so glad。
you're here with us.。
Everyone that is in Dallas, it's amazing to be with you,。
but it is also amazing to be with everybody。
that is tuning in online.。
We don't take it for granted。
that young adults all over the nation。
choose to give up part of their evening。
here with us on Tuesdays.。
And so thank you, all of you。
that are listening in on this series。
and what God is doing.。
We pray it is a blessing to you.。
And special shout out to all of our Porsche Live locations,。
particularly Porsche Live Dayton, Fort Worth, and Wheaton.。
So glad to be with you.。
We're talking about dating, people.。
And tonight is the third week.。
But before we get into it,。
let me lead off with a story。
that I think will set us up well.。
In my last job, when I lived in Houston,。
prior before I came here to Dallas,。
I worked in a young singles ministry.。
What I didn't know whenever I took the job。
is that I inherited a major crisis within the organization.。
It's not what you likely think.。
It wasn't that we had a declining attendance。
or a lack of giving from our members.。
It's not that I even had personnel issues。
or we were short-staffed in volunteers.。
We weren't even facing cultural challenges.。
No, no, no, it was something altogether different.。
You see, the major crisis that I inherited。
whenever I got to Dallas is that no one was dating,。
which is a big deal when you consider the fact。
that I was working in a young singles ministry.。
Like this is a place where people are walking with Jesus。
and they're trying to connect in the community。
and they're principally looking for a spouse.。
And so it begged the question in my mind,。
like why is it that all of you。
are in the picture-perfect place to find a romantic suitor。
and yet none of you seem to be doing that?。
What is the problem?。
Why is nobody dating?。
And so unable just to allow the question。
to be rhetorical in my mind, I started asking around.。
And what I found is that surprisingly,。
the answers were the same。
depending upon which group you visited with.。
And so I would ask the ladies, hey, why is nobody dating?。
And they would always respond with the same thing.。
They would always say, well, guys just aren't asking us out.。
It doesn't matter if I do my hair。
or if I get my Sunday best on。
or if I choose to share my Bible with him。
or I even visit with his friends。
and try to make nice with the boys。
or I stamp interested on my forehead.。
He just can't seem to catch the hint.。
To the guys, they would always respond,。
well, the girls never say yes.。
Doesn't matter if I confirm。
that she's single and ready to mingle.。
It doesn't even matter if I plan what I'm gonna say。
and where I'm gonna say it.。
If I talk to her friends and I make sure,。
hey, do y'all agree?。
Is this a good idea?。
Or if I actually go to the trouble。
of putting on my Sunday best。
and making sure my hygiene is in check,。
it doesn't seem to work.。
Anytime I ask a girl out, it is less remotely romantic.。
Instead, it is more like an extreme sport。
for my self-esteem.。
Both admitted to wanting the other,。
but both accused each other for why that wasn't happening,。
which felt crazy to me。
because they were all saying the same thing.。
I want you and yet it's your fault。
that we can't be together.。
That's what they were all communicating.。
It felt like a really bad soap opera in its 20th season。
in the sense that it just needed to end.。
Dating didn't need to be this hard.。
At least according to my estimation,。
it didn't feel like it needed to be.。
And yet, as I started preparing for this message。
and reading the research,。
what I learned is most people think it is.。
According to Pew Research,。
almost half of Americans say dating is harder today。
than it was 10 years ago,。
which I don't know about you,。
but when I hear something like that,。
it raises the question in my mind,。
what took place over the course of the last decade。
that has made the dating dynamic so much more difficult?。
Well, there's a lot that we could say on that,。
but when it comes to the realm of romance,。
there is one primary perpetrator that we need to identify,。
and it's this, technology.。
Whether it's the fear of being unintentionally catfish,。
and I mean that, like unintentionally,。
like you saw their profile on Hinge,。
and yet then they showed up in the date,。
and you're like, wait,。
that photo was like five to 10 years older than you.。
You don't look like that any longer,。
or it's the pain of trying to decipher,。
does he like me or doesn't he like me?。
He continues to like the things that I'm posting online.。
Or it's the trouble and the frustration of,。
man, my job requires me to travel,。
and so I work remotely, I'm on the road a lot,。
and yet as I do that,。
I feel disconnected from other people,。
particularly those that I might be romantically interested in.。
I don't know where it is,。
but what I need you to hear is the same technology。
that has infiltrated your regular life。
has infiltrated your romantic life,。
and the result is it has made your romantic life hard.。
You see, the dating dynamic today。
can feel like, for lack of a better word, discouraging.。
It is disheartening, no,。
to go into a series of first dates。
and feel like you give so much effort。
and yet walk away from all of them。
and feel like you got nothing out of them instead.。
It can be deeply confusing to process,。
how did she become so attached。
when we've only ever really had like one conversation。
with one another?。
It can also be equally infuriating。
to see that he's more invested。
in his intramural softball team than he is in you.。
I get it, but what you need to understand。
is we're all left asking the same question.。
Is dating supposed to be this hard?。
Is dating supposed to be this hard?。
That's where we're going tonight,。
because cards on the table,。
I don't think it has to be, nor should it be.。
You see, we often make dating so much harder than necessary,。
and the reason why。
is we just don't know what we're doing.。
Can we admit that to one another,。
that we might not actually be as familiar。
with the landscape of love as we claim to be?。
It's funny, I was preparing for this message。
and reading through some articles,。
and I came across one that was titled,。
"A Guy's Guide to Asking Girl Out."。
Now, normally that doesn't appeal to me。
as a credible source for a talk like this.。
And yet I was struck by two things I found very funny.。
Number one, the title insinuated to me。
that not only do men need instructions。
for building that desk at home,。
they need instructions for building a good opening line。
whenever it comes to engaging with the opposite sex.。
And the second thing that was very interesting to me。
is it claimed a 95% success rate.。
It said, "Hey, this thing is bulletproof, it will work."。
And so, like a moth to the flame,。
I pulled back the layers。
and I started reading through everything。
this author had said,。
and what I found was horrible dating advice.。
And I'm not claiming to be the expert here.。
I'm saying God is, and he disagrees.。
Because when you're reading headlines like,。
"Hey, keep her confused," or "Don't take no for an answer,"。
that's not good advice.。
(congregation laughing)。
And yet, what we can know from that。
is even the so-called dating experts。
don't have a clue what they're doing.。
No one knows what they're doing.。
But God does.。
And so over the course of tonight,。
what I wanna help you do。
is I wanna help you see what he says。
and the way that I wanna do it。
is I wanna give you a series of principles.。
I wanna help you understand the do's and the don'ts of it all。
but before we really get into it,。
what you need to hear from me is this warning.。
If all you hear tonight is a bunch of tips and tricks。
for finding that special someone。
or how to hack the system unhappily ever after,。
then you will have wasted your time here tonight.。
You see, values are only so good。
as the vision that they support.。
And so my goal is to help you get a vision of a God。
that has built a beauty beneath all of this。
that transcends things like a great opening line。
or meeting somebody new or going on that first date。
or publicly displaying your affection。
because people actually do enjoy doing that。
or meeting the parents at some point。
or bending the knee and proposing the question。
and sailing off into the sunset with your special someone.。
There's more to it than just those things.。
You see, Christ's principles for love,。
which we're gonna talk about tonight,。
they can get you a date,。
but it is Christ's picture of love。
that will keep you in a relationship.。
You need to see him.。
And so what I wanna do。
is I wanna walk you through a series of principles.。
I've got eight of them, which if you know me,。
immediately causes you to panic。
because I already take too long。
unpacking three to four principles every single week.。
So we're gonna split this thing into two weeks.。
We got part one tonight, part two next week.。
So if you like what you hear this evening,。
come back around because we'll have more for you next time.。
We're gonna walk through four principles。
on the dos and don'ts of dating.。
You guys ready for this?。
The first is this, don't be anxious, but do be dependent.。
Don't be anxious, but do be dependent.。
What do I mean by that?。
Well, to depend upon someone is to rely upon that person。
to fulfill some need that you have.。
Now, as I say that, this is not a license nor excuse。
for you to snap into your stage five clinginess。
and start searching across the four corners。
of this planet earth to find that person。
whom your soul has set its affections upon.。
That's not what I'm telling you to do.。
The goal here is not to be needy.。
You don't need a boyfriend or girlfriend.。
What you do need is you need Jesus.。
The scriptures unpack this very clearly.。
Isaiah 26, four says, "Trust in the Lord forever。
for the Lord God is an everlasting rock."。
Meaning that there is stability with him,。
that a relationship won't necessarily promise you stability。
but God can promise you stability.。
He is a rock upon which you can stand.。
Proverbs 3, five through six says,。
"Trust in the Lord with all your heart."。
Not just part of it, but the entirety of it.。
"And do not lean on your own understanding.。
In all your ways, acknowledge him。
and he will make straight your paths."。
Anybody feel like as you navigate。
the tumultuous road of romance,。
you often feel like, man, I am weaving。
and winding all over the place.。
God is the one as you walk through this life。
that can make your path straight.。
You don't have to bob and weave and wind and wander。
'cause he leads you forward.。
Romans 8, 28 says, "And we know that for those who love God,。
all things," that is a universal statement of totality.。
All things work together for good。
for those who are called according to his purposes.。
What's all that mean?。
In a world that's saying, hey, you gotta have sex,。
you need to find a partner,。
and you need to make sure to look for marriage,。
to have a fulfilling and complete human experience,。
you, if you have Jesus, can say, no, I'm good.。
I've got everything I need.。
I'm not one who is needy like the rest of the world。
that subscribes to your advice。
because I have all that I need in him.。
I have one who stabilizes me.。
I have one who leads me forward.。
I have one who works all things,。
even the bad of my life into good purpose.。
I have a God that I can depend on instead.。
My happiness does not rise or fall。
on the back of whether or not I find love in this life.。
My happiness rises and falls on the fact。
that love has already found me in this life.。
Jesus has found me, which is big when it comes to romance。
because few things are more anxiety-inducing than dating.。
I remember in that ministry that I was a part of。
that I described at the very beginning of the night,。
I could literally spot the guys,。
point them out in a crowd。
that were showing up to our Bible studies,。
not because they just wanted to open the leather。
and read together, they wanted to find a spouse.。
It was easy.。
I could point them out.。
Those guys that are, "Where's my hug at?" kind of guys.。
You know, I could find those dudes.。
They always had shirts whose sleeves were slightly too tight。
for their arms and their cologne wafted across the room.。
I could smell them before I ever saw them.。
I knew they, for some reason, would spontaneously appear。
wherever it was the girls were gathering.。
You could point them out a mile away.。
On the girl side of things,。
whenever a new girl would enter into the Bible study,。
you could see the death glare.。
Like every girl was out looking upon that new arrival。
as my new best friend.。
But you were the arch enemy that I have been waiting for.。
You were the one who is here to threaten。
all of my eternal happiness。
and the men whom I have come to find.。
That's what I would find.。
It was so easy.。
And the reason why all this is true。
is because dating is anxiety-inducing.。
Like it leaves people so pent up and worried.。
It spins them up and then it spirals them out。
with all sorts of emotion.。
It felt crazy to me.。
And yet the reality is, it is true,。
not just for me there, but for you in here.。
The data would say that 68% of women,。
68% of women, that's like seven out of 10 of you,。
would say that dating is your leading cause of stress.。
That's crazy.。
Like, have you seen the job market?。
Have you looked at the cost of living?。
Just look at the timeline on whatever social media you have.。
There is negative news everywhere.。
And yet you're like, I've seen it all,。
but it has nothing to do in comparison to my dating life.。
So much so that you're so stressed out。
that women even reported that some had passed out。
and puked on a date because of that stress.。
Guys, you're not necessarily losing your lunch。
the thought of dating, but you are losing your nerve。
because 63%, not seven out of 10, but six out of 10 men。
are just opting to stay single。
given the difficulties they find in the dating world.。
They're just like, I'm out, I'm out.。
Y'all can play with that.。
I'm gonna go over here and sit on the sideline.。
That's often the man's approach.。
What's that all mean?。
Seeking out love, searching for the one,。
sharing your feelings, risking rejection,。
and processing the possibility of forever。
with someone leaves people feeling anxious.。
And yet here's the thing for the believer,。
as we set sail and we voyage into the sea。
of swirling emotion and capsizing doubt。
that we call dating,。
we have a steady anchor.。
We have one who holds us fast。
because we don't depend upon our strength in the storm.。
We depend on his.。
We know one who calms the winds and the waves,。
even whenever the hurricane of romance blows through.。
We know God, and that changes everything.。
Paul says it like this when he writes。
to the church of Philippi.。
He says in Philippians 4, six through seven, famous verse,。
"Do not be anxious about anything,。
"but in everything by prayer and supplication。
"with thanksgiving," those are deeds of dependence.。
"Let your requests be made known to God。
"and the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding,。
"will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus."。
You see, when you depend on God,。
you move from an obsession to that which isn't.。
I don't have a boyfriend, I don't have a girlfriend,。
I'm gonna be alone forever.。
All I'm gonna have around my house are cats.。
You move from an obsession with what isn't。
to a gratitude for what is,。
that I may not have a significant other,。
but I do have the significant one.。
I have God, and he is all I need.。
I need nothing else, for in him,。
I find all that I want and require.。
Now hear me, I'm not saying。
that you shouldn't desire a spouse,。
but what I am saying is that you don't need。
to be desperate for one.。
You see, desperate people do desperate things.。
I see this all the time.。
If you live within a ministry context long enough,。
you will see good godly people do crazy desperate things.。
The amount of godly women I know。
that have in a desperate attempt to find love,。
settled for some guy that goes to church,。
it is astronomical.。
I can't begin to count how many women I know。
that have actually found themselves doing it.。
I have talked to many of you down here。
at the foot of the stage,。
and here's what I wanna tell you,。
whether you're a guy in that situation,。
or you're a girl in that situation,。
if you are having to convince yourself they're Christian,。
they're not.。
They're not a believer.。
We know believers not just by their words,。
but by their deeds.。
We can look at their life,。
and we can see the one who is Lord over it.。
But Kylan, once we get married, I'm gonna help him out.。
No, you're not.。
He doesn't want your help.。
Like if he is not willing to love Jesus。
while he is trying to woo you,。
he will not love Jesus whenever he has won you.。
Right now he is in a season of impressing.。
And so if you're not impressed with what you see,。
then why would you wait any longer?。
You have my permission to break up.。
(congregation laughing)。
You want someone like what Jeremiah 17 describes.。
Jeremiah 17 says this, "Thus says the Lord,。
"'Cursed is the man who trusts in man。
"'and makes flesh his strength,。
"'whose heart turns away from the Lord.。
"'He is like a scrub, I mean shrub, in the desert,。
"'and he shall not see any good come.。
"'He shall dwell in the parched places of the wilderness。
"'in an uninhabited salt land.'"。
Let me just stop there.。
Does that sound like a guy you wanna pair up with?。
Like, did you hear the detail that Jeremiah just gave?。
He is like a shrub in the desert.。
He shall not see any good.。
He shall dwell in the parched places of the wilderness,。
in an uninhabited salt land.。
I don't even know what some of that means,。
but I know that I don't want that to be my story.。
But here's what you would want.。
Verse seven, "Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord,。
"whose trust is in the Lord.。
"He is like a tree planted by water。
"that sends out its roots by the stream,。
"and it does not fear when," not if,。
"but when the heat comes,。
"for its leaves remain green,。
"and it is not anxious in the year of drought,。
"for it does not cease to bear fruit."。
That's the kind of man you want, ladies.。
That's the kind of woman you want, guys.。
You want someone that trusts in Jesus,。
that depends on God,。
that does not look to you to be their source of life。
because they have a source of life,。
that is able to look at you when, not if,。
but when the heat comes, when conflict arises,。
when you're at each other's throats,。
whenever one of you loses a job,。
whenever someone gets sick,。
whenever a child goes astray,。
whenever the circumstances of life begin to suffer,。
you want someone that looks at you and says,。
"I'm not going anywhere."。
Why?。
"Because I am committed to him,。
"and because I am committed to him,。
"I am committed to you.。
"I'm not leaving.。
"I'm dependent, not on you for my need,。
"but on him who satisfies my every need."。
That's the first thing you have to know,。
because without that, every other point,。
we'll walk through this week, next week,。
it is irrelevant.。
You've gotta have that.。
Second point, don't be passive.。
Do be purposeful.。
Don't be passive, but you, you be purposeful.。
If you look at the landscape of dating today,。
a greater percentage of young men。
are single in comparison to women。
than at any other point in history.。
Why is that?。
The increasing prevalence of male passivity.。
Now, before you ladies break out and cheer,。
and you start to amen everything that I say,。
let me be very fair.。
I am not insinuating in any way。
that there is some deficiency within men today。
that there has not been in times past.。
This is the primary male problem.。
If you go back to the very beginning of the book,。
you know what Adam's original sin was?。
It was a sin of passivity.。
This is something that men, we, not you,。
we are all imbued with by nature.。
Our fallen nature says we are passive。
in our pursuit of anything,。
but particularly that which God has put us。
on this earth to do, to fulfill the cultural mandate.。
And yet what we know is that while passivity。
isn't particular to our generation alone,。
it is nonetheless our problem.。
We have to do something about it, men.。
And so let me talk to you for a minute.。
Sociologist and author Mark Regnerus,。
he describes in his book, "The Future of Christian Marriage,"。
that much of male passivity。
is the result of a culture accustomed to cheap sex.。
What he means by cheap sex。
is he talks about what he calls marriage economics,。
is that things like cohabitation。
and casual hookups and pornography make alternatives,。
which God would say are good and right and desirable.。
Things like abstinence and marriage, all the more costly.。
And yet what does it mean if something costs more?。
It is more valuable.。
It's worth more, as my friend in the front row said.。
You see, what you need to know。
is that you don't stumble over diamonds,。
but you do pass over pennies all the time.。
You see, it is easy to passively move through life。
and see pennies scattered along the way.。
And yet what do you do with them?。
Often you don't even bother to bend down and pick them up.。
Why? Because they are worthless.。
And yet how do you find a diamond?。
You purposefully pursue it.。
You must mine for it.。
It takes work.。
It takes effort.。
It takes initiation because it is valuable.。
That's how we should pursue romantic relationships.。
Men, very specifically,。
this is how you should pursue our ladies.。
You pursue them the way that Jesus has pursued you.。
First John 4:19 says, "We love because he first loved us."。
What is that saying?。
It's a very simple verse. We all know it.。
It's saying that Christ initiated with you。
before the thought ever even crossed your mind.。
Ephesians 1:4 says, "Even as he chose us in him。
"before the foundation of the world,。
"we should be holy and blameless before him."。
It's saying that Jesus chose you.。
Romans 5:8, "But God chose his love for us。
"in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us.。
"He was willing to not only seek you,。
"but sacrifice himself for you."。
This is the kind of purposeful love。
that we see in the person of Christ.。
You see, in God, we find anything but passive.。
He loved us before the thought ever even crossed our mind.。
He chose us before we ever thought,。
"Maybe I should choose you."。
He gave himself.。
He died your death because he wanted you that bad.。
There is not a happenstance moment。
or a haphazard bone in God's body.。
He is fully and finally intentional.。
You date the same way.。
You don't be passive, you be purposeful,。
which means for the men in the room,。
and don't worry, ladies, I'm coming to you next.。
You initiate in the dating context.。
You don't just slide into their DMs。
or connect with them online in some convenient way.。
And I'm not diminishing the opportunity。
that's available in online dating.。
That's another talk for another time.。
There's good and there's bad to that as well.。
But what you need to know is that those things。
require no purposefulness.。
It takes no courage to slide into someone's DMs,。
to drop a meme, to like a comment.。
It takes nothing of you to do that.。
And yet ladies, as you assess potential suitors,。
you need to see in them the kind of courage。
that you would wanna link up with.。
Guys, you need to make every effort。
to do more than swipe right.。
You need to walk across the room.。
You need to tell a woman she's great.。
And you need to ask her if she would be willing。
to go on a date with you.。
You be purposeful.。
And the thing is, you don't need to take my word for it.。
93% of women report that they prefer the man。
to make the first move.。
93%, that means nine times out of 10 in this room,。
if you catch yourself swapping glances with a young lady,。
more than likely she's waiting for you。
to do something about it.。
That's what this is saying.。
She is expecting you to move with confidence,。
dignify her as worth the risk,。
and demonstrate a kind of courage。
that Christ was willing to take on himself。
to save his beloved.。
But Kylan, what if I get rejected?。
You might.。
But godly men don't run from the fight.。
They don't run from the fight.。
We run into the fight.。
We engage the fray.。
I remember the very first girl。
that I ever asked out in college.。
I didn't know much, nor did I do much right at this point,。
but I remember by God's own clarion call,。
that she was worth me walking over and asking out.。
And so, wide-eyed and feeble freshman Kylan,。
made the long stroll across the cafeteria,。
and the whole way he went, he said, "She's worth it.。
She's worth it.。
She's worth it.。
She's worth it.。
She's crazy, but she's worth it."。
And as I stood there before her and all her friends。
not having chosen a good moment to do this,。
I asked her out and she said yes.。
Later on, she asked me why.。
And I told her, "Because I think you're worth it."。
Listen, if I can do that, we're not together, don't awe me.。
If I can do that, then you can do this.。
You can plan a date.。
You can send a text.。
You can write an encouraging note.。
You can send a voice message on your way home.。
You can make a reservation for dinner。
and you can tell her what to wear.。
All right, ladies, hold on, hold on, hold on.。
Ladies, ladies, like, yes, you are not off the hook。
because passivity is not just a guy problem.。
Listen, bye guys.。
That guy, that guy.。
Listen, ladies, passivity is not just a guy problem.。
You do not wait for a man to start living your life.。
So many women that I know,。
so many women I know that I've visited with,。
I've looked at them and I've asked them the question,。
"Hey, like, what's your plan, like next two, three years,。
like what's happening in your life?"。
And they have nothing figured out.。
And the reason why is because I'm gonna meet my husband。
and we're gonna get married。
and then we're gonna move in together。
and we're gonna begin to start our brand new life.。
And as I do so, he'll take care of the finances。
and he'll take out the trash。
and I'll never have to break down a box in my life。
'cause he's gonna do all of that for me instead.。
And yet what I want to look at them and say,。
as I have looked at them and said,。
and I want to say to you is fantasizing for your future。
is a form of passivity.。
So many of you are placing your life on hold.。
You are pausing your progress personally。
because the fantasy of what you want tomorrow。
is more riveting than the reality。
of what you have right now.。
Do not do that to yourself.。
Don't, not just because you deserve more, we need more.。
Like we need you, we need you to pursue your career。
and not wait to purchase that home。
and start leading in your church and serving other people。
and moving towards your gifts in God。
because that will lead to his glory and our good.。
We need you to do these things now, don't wait.。
Don't pause your progress personally.。
Do not indulge your passivity.。
Don't wait for a man to push forward in life.。
A lot is said to young women。
about becoming a Proverbs 31 woman.。
But you need to hear this。
'cause it says this of that woman in verses 16 through 17.。
She considers a field and she buys it,。
meaning she's entrepreneurial.。
With the fruit of her hands, she plants a vineyard.。
She's industrious and she dresses herself with strength。
and she makes her arms strong because she's secure.。
She's secure, ladies.。
You be secure.。
You live purposefully with him。
and you live purposefully without him.。
When I lived in College Station,。
I had a dear friend that worked in advertising up。
in New York City and she left New York City。
advertising agency to come all the way down。
to small town USA Aggieland because God had called her,。
God had called her to specifically minister to women.。
And what we knew is it was a crazy decision for her to make。
because the rest of the world was looking,。
it was like, what are you doing?。
Like anybody that's, or everybody that's anybody。
lives in New York City.。
Like this is the place to meet someone。
if you're gonna meet someone.。
If you're gonna live it up, this is the place to live it up.。
Why would you leave here without a husband。
and move to that place of all places。
where the mean age is 18 to 22?。
Why would you do that to yourself?。
There are no romantic suitors in that city for you.。
And yet she said, I am driven by a purpose to my God,。
not to some man and so I will make the move.。
And she gave herself to the cause of Christ。
and she is making massive moves for the kingdom there.。
Ladies, you be like that.。
So say that all of this is making sense,。
but now you're wondering, how am I supposed to know。
or how are they supposed to know。
that I'm interested in them?。
Well, that's not a trick question,。
even though it can feel like, just go up and say hello.。
It's not a trick question because we live in a culture。
that has made communicating our intent。
increasingly difficult.。
It doesn't take long to just read across our society。
and see things like benching and breadcrumbing。
and cuffing and curving and wild flowering and zombieing,。
none of which I made up here on the spot,。
all of which I read in the research。
and are prevalent in your culture。
because people don't know how to communicate.。
What the heck is happening right here?。
Which brings us to our third point.。
Don't be confusing, but do be clear.。
Don't be confusing, but you be clear.。
Oh gosh, I gotta go quick.。
First Corinthians 14, 33a says,。
"For God is not a God of confusion, but he is one of peace."。
Psalm 119, 130 said,。
"The unfolding of your words gives light.。
It imparts understanding to the simple or the naive."。
If your dating is confusing, hear me on this.。
If your dating is confusing,。
then your dating is inconsistent with the character of God.。
God does not confuse his people.。
He gives clarity to his people.。
And we see that nowhere more exemplified。
than in the person of Jesus.。
If you read Mark 12, verse 14,。
you hear them describe this of our savior.。
It says, "And they came and they said to him,。
'Teacher, we know that you are true.。
You don't care about anyone's opinion.。
You're not swayed by appearances,。
but you truly teach the way of God.'"。
I love that.。
Like Jesus didn't change how he spoke。
or what he spoke to people,。
depending upon who it was that was standing in front of him.。
He did not change his opinion or truth based upon,。
or he did not change the truth。
on the basis of what people he was engaging with.。
Instead, he was always truthful.。
He was always honest.。
He was always understandable to those that he engaged with.。
And our dating should be the same.。
That's what people want.。
According to one of the largest surveys。
conducted on singles and dating in America。
from people just like you,。
the highest value in a potential partner。
is someone who is upfront about their relationship goals.。
Meaning we don't want to play games with each other.。
We want to speak plain to each other.。
We want to say what we mean,。
and we want to mean what we say.。
I remember when Brooke and I were dating。
early on in our relationship.。
We went on a date, amazing date,。
planned the entire thing out,。
had an incredible evening together,。
stimulating conversation.。
And I drove to drop her off at the Southern Dormitories。
at Texas A&M University.。
Do not whoop for the sake of our other friends in the room.。
Though I love you.。
And I leaned in, unplanned, and I kissed her goodnight.。
It did not take long, less than 24 hours,。
for her to call me and say,。
"We need to process some things."。
So we sat in my truck the next day,。
and she looked at me and she said,。
"I don't know what kind of girl you think I am,。
"but that's not the kind of girl that I actually am.。
"I am not okay with that line of engagement.。
"That's confusing to me.。
"What do you actually want this to be?"。
And it was there in the truck。
that I defined our relationship,。
because she called me to the carpet,。
and I loved her for it.。
Ladies, this isn't even in my notes,。
but I just need you to know for me,。
so much of the maturity of our men hinges upon。
your ability to look at them and say,。
"I'm not putting up with this."。
They will do as I did.。
They will lay restless at night in their bed,。
and they will wonder, "What has happened to me?"。
And you actually have the key。
to unlocking their growth in God.。
We must be clear with one another,。
which means we don't flirt with someone。
just to get a sense of validation.。
I talk to guys, and I've literally heard guys。
look at me and say, "But I love the thrill。
"of the hunt, Kylan."。
Do you know how weird that sounds?。
(audience laughing)。
Like, take the camouflage off, bro.。
Like, she's not a trophy for you to hunt and kill.。
She is a treasure for you to find and keep.。
Like, you're not gonna mount her on your wall.。
You're gonna move in together,。
and you're going to serve one another.。
That's the nature of how this goes.。
Ladies, stop hiding behind the excuse。
that you're just bubbly, and you can't help the fact。
that he's catching the wrong idea.。
Avoid emotionally charged friendships.。
Like, don't have full conversations through text。
or spend multiple hours a week with that girl or that guy。
who you have absolutely no legitimate interest in.。
Even if you love spending time with them,。
here's the thing.。
If you love spending time with them, then date them.。
But the reality is, many of you don't love。
spending time with them.。
You love that they're spending time with you.。
And that's very validating, and yet it's very confusing.。
Stop ghosting them.。
Do I actually need to unpack this one?。
Here's what I would say.。
If you're not interested, affirm them where you can。
and graciously tell them you just don't see it。
working out for yourself.。
I will literally tell you what to say.。
Are you listening?。
Here's what you can say.。
If you're not interested in someone, you can say,。
"Hey, I think you're great,。
"but I don't think we're a great fit.。
"Thank you for the honor of asking me out."。
That's it.。
It's that simple.。
It's dignifying to the other person, not demeaning to them.。
You actually treat them like they exist,。
that they're a child of God,。
that they're your brother or sister in Christ.。
You don't ghost them.。
Avoid using some derivative of, "It's not you, it's me."。
No, it is them.。
So tell them that.。
(congregation laughing)。
Saying things like, "I'll always love you.。
"You're so great.。
"Maybe one day the timing's just bad."。
That is not helping them.。
Listen to me.。
Clarity brings closure,。
and it's kindness to help people close the chapter。
on one stage of life。
so they might begin to write a new chapter with someone else.。
You do that for them.。
I'm not saying you cut them down to the knees.。
"Well, I hate you because you smell bad,。
"and your hair's weird,。
"and you have a weird taste in food or music."。
Don't do that.。
Be clear with them.。
Gracious, but truthful.。
And then definitely, last but not least,。
quit using God as your excuse.。
(congregation cheering)。
It is insincere。
to say。
that God is calling you someplace else,。
that you just don't have peace about this,。
that you're still processing with your community。
when in reality, you just don't like them.。
Listen to me.。
I'm not trying to be funny.。
I'm really wanting to engage with you。
because this sounds nice,。
but what it does is it excuses you from the responsibility,。
and it accuses God of being at fault.。
Do not do that.。
Do not call his character into question。
in the life of another believer。
because you're not interested.。
That is a disproportionate allocation of value.。
It's okay to say, "I don't see this working,"。
but don't tell them God doesn't see it working.。
Proverbs 24, 26 says,。
"An honest answer is like a kiss on the lips.。
"Clarity is kindness, so be clear with one another."。
And lastly for tonight, don't be dramatic.。
Do be steady.。
You be steady.。
Second Corinthians 10, five says,。
"We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion。
"raised against the knowledge of God,。
"and we take every thought captive to obey Christ."。
Isaiah 26, three says,。
"You keep him in perfect peace,。
"whose mind is stayed on you because he trusts in you."。
Philippians 4, eight says,。
"Finally, brothers and sisters,。
"whatever is true and honorable and just。
"and pure and lovely and commendable,。
"if there's any excellence,。
"if there's anything worthy of praise,。
"then think about these things."。
You hear what these verses are emphasizing?。
They are all emphasizing your thought life,。
that we should take thoughts captive to obey Christ,。
that we should keep our minds stayed on God,。
that we should think about godly things.。
Why does that matter?。
Because you want to date someone that's in their right mind.。
I remember a mentor of mine,。
he called me and he asked me,。
"Hey, how are you and Brooke doing?"。
And I responded, "Man, we're doing really great.。
"Like nothing really new to report."。
And I loved his response.。
He sighed on the other end of the phone and he said,。
"Man, isn't that awesome?"。
Steadiness is not listed amongst the most sexy qualities。
to find in a suitor,。
but it is listed among the best qualities。
to find in a suitor.。
You want someone that is like their God,。
the same today, yesterday, and forever.。
You want them to be consistent.。
You don't want to date crazy.。
You don't want someone that's lost in their feelings.。
You want someone that's tethered to the truth,。
that tunes their life to the voice of God.。
But Kylan, what about following your heart?。
That is terrible advice.。
Do not follow your heart.。
Follow God's word.。
Like the scriptures tell us in Proverbs 28, 26,。
as one example,。
he who trusts in his own heart is a fool,。
but he who walks wisely will be delivered.。
How do you walk wisely。
with the one that has written wisdom。
into the fabric of creation?。
You see, the heart wants for things that it should not,。
and it leads us to do things we regret.。
So we don't follow our feelings.。
We focus on the truth.。
That's who we are.。
We are a people of the truth.。
We follow it and it alone.。
You see, what you have to know。
is whatever is consistently true。
in your significant other's life。
is going to eventually become consistently true。
in your own life.。
Because as you date and you come together,。
one another, standing in the altar,。
because that's the point and purpose of dating,。
it's to eventually have a series of yeses。
that leads to an eventual I do,。
what you will find is that what's true of them。
will become true of you.。
You will become like one another,。
or you'll just see that this isn't working,。
and you'll go against God's will and you'll divorce.。
This is how these things happen.。
You want someone that is not drama.。
Well, he's always angry.。
He can't seem to regulate his emotions.。
Well, she always knows what's going on with her friends。
or with her friends or our neighbors' lives.。
Do you think you want someone to know the details。
of everybody's life as well as the details of yours?。
It sounds like they're not good。
at probably keeping that information locked.。
Well, she likes bad boys.。
That sounds like sabotage to your peace.。
You know, I would avoid that at all costs.。
Like you don't want someone that's full of drama.。
You want someone that's steady.。
In the book of Judges, we meet a guy by the name of Samson.。
Samson is head over heels in love。
with this woman named Delilah.。
She was a Philistine woman.。
And what you see is there are two things。
characterized in her relationship with Samson.。
She is characterized by a desire for him,。
but also a deceit of him.。
You see, she wanted to betray Samson。
into the hands of her people so they might overcome him.。
And so the entirety of their relationship,。
she is trying to figure out what his weakness is.。
You want to know what Samson's weakness was?。
It wasn't his hair.。
It's that he fell in love with crazy.。
That's Samson's problem.。
He started dating drama.。
Do not make the same mistake.。
You date to find a spouse.。
You went to find someone that you can link up with。
and you can move forward through life together alongside.。
Will you know if they're the one on the first date?。
No.。
Will you know if they're the one in the first month?。
Likely no.。
So many of us have bought into this formulaic。
Christian science where we must tell her。
that I am only pursuing her for the sake of being united。
to one another in holy matrimony under God。
and before all of our friends.。
And then I must make all of my intentions。
plainly clear before.。
We're so bought into this science.。
Listen, dating is not a science, it is an art.。
But there are a series of colors you should paint with.。
We have given you four tonight.。
We're gonna give you four more next week.。
You paint with them a beautiful picture。
that matches the picture of Christ's love for us.。
How has Christ loved us?。
He's done all of this.。
When we were anxious in spirit,。
he was dependent on our behalf.。
He submitted himself to the will of God.。
He left heaven, he came to earth because God wanted him to.。
What we see in Christ is that when we were passive,。
he was still purposeful.。
He pursued a people, catch this,。
that wanted nothing to do with him.。
He didn't fear rejection.。
He looked at us and he said,。
"You can tell me no and no and no."。
Again, some of you have been telling him no and no。
and no all your life.。
And yet he is here tonight pursuing you.。
And he's saying, "Please finally say yes to me.。
"I am purposeful for you.。
"I will pursue you because you're valuable to me.。
"You're not some penny that I'm gonna leave。
"laying upon the ground.。
"No, I want to scoop you up.。
"I want to mine you out.。
"I want to bring you to myself."。
You see, when we were confused,。
what we see is that Jesus was clear.。
Like he brought clarity to the confusion of our condition.。
We, like she had gone astray.。
We didn't know what we were doing.。
We were lost in our rebellion。
and yet Christ full of crystal clarity saw。
that is their condition.。
This is the cost.。
And what I will do is I will give myself to pay it.。
And what we know is that Jesus,。
he, while we were lost in the drama of our death,。
he was steady for our sake.。
Jesus was one who never wavered for you,。
never second guessed about you.。
He always kept the right mind that he wanted you。
even to the point when he should have questioned it himself,。
hanging upon the cross and dying your death for you.。
This is the kind of love that Christ has for you.。
Listen to me.。
If you wanna build a relationship that lasts,。
then look to the one that has built a relationship。
that does last.。
He has built a relationship with you。
that will not just last today or tomorrow or this life.。
It lasts forever.。
So many of us are trying to do this on our own.。
We're looking to the world for advice.。
No, stop looking elsewhere.。
Look right here.。
He wants to tell you how to do it。
because he has shown you how to do it.。
He has shown you by way of his own sacrifice.。
Let me pray that you would believe it.。
God, we are so grateful for tonight.。
God, I am personally overwhelmed。
at the thought of how much you love us,。
what you would give to have us.。
I pray, Lord, please,。
as has been my prayer,。
let us not just see hints and hacks。
for how to date well and find love and get married.。
God, no, help us to see the beauty beneath it all.。
That beauty which would say,。
I'll give up everything to have you.。
I love you so much.。
How much, Jesus?。
I love you so much that I'll give my life for you.。
But I don't deserve that.。
You don't deserve it.。
I'm not worth that.。
You're not worthy of it.。
But I love you anyways.。
I choose you anyways.。
That's how great the love of God is for us.。
And so, God, it's to that love that we respond tonight.。
We're grateful.。
Let us, God, now hold nothing back。
for nothing held you back in pursuit of us.。
It's in your name we pray, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
