Well, man, it's good to see you. If you have your Bibles, grab those.。
While you're turning to Psalm 24, I want to kind of frame in praying and prepping。
to be with you, really what I felt the Spirit putting on my heart.。
One, the biblical word would be the word "gladness," and gladness is a mixture of a。
lot of hope and a lot of excitement mingled with a little bit of heartbreak.。
It's one of my favorite biblical words, that concept of gladness.。
Most of us, that's going to be our experience in life.。
Most of life is going to have a mixture of beauty and brutality in it.。
And here's what I begin to feel for you, getting ready for our time together.。
One, I couldn't be more excited about what God seems to be doing in your day.。
Like just wherever I've gone, not just in the States, but around the world, the Holy。
Spirit, I don't know if it's a glory portal, I don't know what to call it, but God just。
seems to be doing something really unique in your day, in your generation.。
And I'm just glad to be here for it, man.。
I don't know how else to describe it, whether it's here in the States, or I was in the Philippines。
in May, and then up in Japan, and wherever there are 20-somethings or under availing。
their hearts to the Holy Spirit, God is creating movements, and I'm so glad.。
And so I'm like, "Oh, I get to be in a room with a bunch of 20-somethings?。
Yes, Lord.。
That seems to be where you're working in special power, and so let me get myself under the。
waterfall of that grace and just enjoy your presence, and you've given me that gift already。
this morning."。
And I also feel some sadness, and I feel it in my bones.。
I had a wildly wayward daughter for a decade.。
I mean, drugs and licentious and wild, and it crushed my heart.。
And then last spring, Jesus just mightily snatched her out of darkness.。
It was like a match fell from heaven and caught all that stuff that her mama and I had been。
putting around her heart her whole life.。
And then if I'm honest, if I'm being straight with you, primarily I'm working with your。
parents.。
And I have so asked the Holy Spirit to prevail over us today so that you might not have to。
experience the immense amount of pain and loss and heartbreak that befalls those whose。
treasure isn't Christ.。
And so that's how I'm feeling coming in, super excited about what God's doing, glad to put。
myself under the waterfall of His grace in your presence and be ministered to by the。
Spirit with you.。
And I'm asking Him to prevail over you and over me this morning in a unique way, to win,。
to push out our half-heartedness, to destroy and crush our hard-heartedness, our—maybe。
the silliness that can come into our relationship with Christ, to eradicate it.。
And so here's my promise.。
We're going to read this psalm.。
It's an epic psalm, but it's not as cute as you might think it is.。
And so let me set up the psalm.。
The Philistines and Israel were at war for close to 200 years.。
Now I want you to get your mind around that, right?。
That's a 200-year smash-up between these two nations.。
Now the Philistines were a problem.。
They were technologically advanced and had a capacity for violence that Israel didn't—they。
knew not of.。
And so, so intimidating were the Philistines that in the Exodus, when God is leading His。
people out of slavery, the Bible literally says He took them the long way around because。
He knew if they saw the Philistines, if they saw their chariots, if they saw their metal。
weapons, their steel weapons, that they would lose heart and run straight back into slavery.。
And so God takes them the long way around so they never even see the Philistines, and。
then they see a stablishism in the land, and now we're in a 200-year war with the Philistines.。
And on paper, this is not a fair fight.。
This is like the U.S. matching up with Haiti.。
It's just, "I like our chances."。
That's all I'm saying.。
I'm not a warmonger.。
I'm saying when that one breaks off—it should be fast, right?。
It would be like, "It's Haiti."。
I mean, they get cleared off by a hurricane every two years.。
Like, "It's Haiti.。
We should dominate them."。
If you're Haitian, no smoke, you know that little island gets waxed all the time.。
Like you would just think that the states could clear the board in a second, and yet。
Israel's God, Yahweh, the Lord of armies, the Lord of hosts, started giving Israel victory。
over the Philistines.。
It would not make sense to our intellect that Israel was able to win some of these significant。
battles.。
They were.。
I'm going to be honest with you.。
The people of God have always been the people of God.。
Like, if you ever find yourself reading the Old Testament, you're like, "What's wrong。
with these people?"。
I just ask you to maybe look up—you know, just lift your eyes a little bit.。
We've always been prone to drift, prone to forget, and prone to self-reliance.。
That's been the story of the people of God since the beginning.。
It's no different.。
You and me are no different than this group of people.。
And so Israel had racked up some significant victories, and they got to feel them themselves.。
They got to feel like their strategies, their style of fighting, that they were the ones。
that kind of were making this victory happen.。
It wasn't the victory of God that God had given them.。
It was their victory.。
And so in 1 Samuel 4, they got away from the clear commands of God.。
So every time Israel goes out to fight the Philistines, it kind of looks the same, especially。
in their wins.。
That they would—the king and others would go to the prophet, which was an office, not。
just a spiritual gift.。
And so they would go to the prophet, and they would seek the face of God together.。
And God would say, "I'm going to deliver them into your hands.。
Here's the marching orders."。
In 1 Samuel 4, they don't do that.。
They're just—they feel like they've got it.。
Let's run the same play we ran last time that worked.。
1 Samuel 4, they go out there, and they smoked day one, lost 4,000 men.。
And you would think 4,000 husbands, dads, young men murdered on the field would make。
them go, "Oh man, maybe we should do what God told us to do."。
But that's not what they did.。
They looked back and were like, "You know what?。
Last time, when we brought the Ark of the Covenant in, when we brought the Ark of the。
Covenant in, we smoked them.。
Let's go get that.。
That's my version.。
It wouldn't read like that in your text.。
Let's go get the Ark of the Covenant."。
So they go, and they get the Ark of the Covenant, and they march it to the battlefield.。
And if you want to start in 1 Samuel 4, that's not our text.。
I'm setting up Psalm 24.。
When they bring the Ark in, it's like that moment in Braveheart, the Sons of Scotland's。
speech.。
They bring the Ark in, and everybody's, I doubt their faces painted blue, but they freak。
out.。
They know they're going to destroy the Philistines now.。
They hated them.。
Let's go get it.。
And they charge into battle and lose 30,000 men, and the Ark is taken by the Philistines.。
And the Philistines take the Ark, and they take it to the temple of their primary deity,。
Dagon.。
And they put the Ark in the temple of Dagon, and they wrote a song.。
They wrote a little worship song to Dagon that just said something like this, that Dagon。
is more powerful than Yahweh, that Dagon is more glorious than Yahweh, that Dagon is more。
powerful than Yahweh.。
And so they sang the song, and then it devolved into all sorts of Philistine debauchery, of。
drunken sexuality, and then they all black out or whatever.。
And they wake up the next morning, they head back to Dagon's temple to worship, except。
the giant statue of Dagon had fallen and was bowed prostrate before the Ark of the Covenant.。
And that, I mean, you would think they'd be like, "Uh-oh."。
But no, because people are dumb, made in the image of God, period, and prone to dumb.。
They pick Dagon back up, bolt him to the wall, and they sing the same song again, that Dagon。
is stronger than Yahweh, that Dagon is more glorious than Yahweh, that Dagon is more powerful,。
that he is the Lord of all, back to drunken debauchery, back to sleeping it off.。
They wake up the next day, and Dagon's statue is not only on the ground now, but his head。
and his hands have been severed.。
And this is, like, if you wonder where we're getting, you make the darkness tremble.。
Like, I don't know, like, do you know that the plagues of Egypt have a corresponding。
Egyptian god?。
It wasn't the people of Egypt God was smoking, it was their gods.。
Like, who is like our God?。
The Lord is a warrior.。
The Lord is his name, and Dagon headless and handless.。
And so they're like, "Okay, not gonna sing that song again.。
Gonna retire that."。
And so they take the Ark of the Covenant and they send it to Gath.。
And Gath is the land of Goliath.。
It's the land of the giants, the land of their best warriors.。
And so they take the Ark of the Covenant there, and as soon as the Ark gets there, everybody。
in the city develops tumors, and rats come in with a plague.。
And this is just kind of a fun study note, you can look it up later.。
The tumors that God gave everyone in Gath apparently were around their bottoms.。
It's like he gave everybody, the judgment of God fell and everybody got hemorrhoids.。
Now, let me, if you've got hemorrhoids, I'm not trying to tell you right now that's God's。
judgment.。
It's probably, you need to put your phone away when you go to the bathroom, right?。
It's just foolishness, not the judgment of God.。
And so the plague comes in, nobody can really sit down in Gath, all their mighty giants,。
all their warriors laid low.。
And so then for the next seven months, they just keep moving the Ark of the Covenant around。
to different Philistine cities.。
And every time the Ark of the Covenant comes into a Philistine city, here comes the rats,。
here comes the hemorrhoids.。
And so finally, they're like, okay, let's just take it back to Israel.。
And so they put together a little special forces, like little squad, and they sneak。
the Ark of the Covenant back into Israel.。
Now, as soon as it gets back in Israel, wherever the Ark is, blessing, fertility, children,。
and bumper crops occur.。
So our boy, King David, he learns that the Ark is back in Israel and he's just a passionate。
guy.。
I would love to tell you that what David did is he went to the book, he sought the face。
of God, he gathered the prophet and said, let's go get the Ark like God tells us to.。
But he's a passionate man.。
It's one of the things I love about him.。
And so David and all his zeal runs and he grabs two oxen and basically a trailer, like。
a janky little trailer, and then they pick up the Ark of the Covenant and they put it。
on and they're heading back to the tabernacle to put the Ark of the Covenant back where。
it goes.。
And the trailer, the little cart, hits a little bump in the road and the Ark tips and our。
boy Uzzah puts out his hand to steady the Ark.。
He's just, brother, just trying to help the Lord out.。
And God struck him dead for touching the Ark.。
And then at that moment, kind of jostled David, and enough people have now died that they。
went and sought the face of the Lord.。
He goes to the prophet, he opens the book.。
He grabs two acacia poles.。
He puts the acacia poles where they belong and they bring with a grand procession back。
into the tabernacle, the Ark of the Covenant.。
And this is the context of Psalm 24.。
I'm going to pick it up in verse 3.。
Who may ascend the mountain of the Lord?。
Who may stand in His holy place?。
So the question David's asking now that we've got the Ark of the Covenant back in the tabernacle,。
after all they just experienced, was like, who can actually be in the presence of God?。
Who can actually stand in His holy place?。
And I think that question's completely lost on us.。
He is not asking this, this is not a cute worship song for David.。
There is a mixture of terror and hope in this question.。
Who can actually survive in the presence of God?。
This God, the killer of little g-gods, the God who is so holy that to be in His presence。
would obliterate anyone who has sin anywhere near them.。
See we're, we are an irreverent generation.。
Not just about the Lord, but like it's really easy for us to believe that Jesus is our homeboy.。
But He ain't nobody's homeboy.。
He sits enthroned at the center of reality.。
You peel back reality and Christ is there reigning and ruling from the very center of。
it.。
We're failing thought about God in our day as the God is love.。
That's not wrong.。
It's in the Bible, twice in the same passage.。
It's true.。
God isn't loving, He is love.。
Whatever proceeds from Him is love because He is love.。
It's not a character attribute, it's what He is.。
But there's this other adjective used 400 times that informs what kind of love.。
And that adjective is the word holy.。
400 times in the Bible we read that holy is God.。
And if you know the book of Revelation, those little freaky creatures that are flying around。
the throne with eyes and wings everywhere, they're not saying love, love, love is the。
Lord God Almighty who was and is and is to come.。
They're not saying grace, grace, grace is the Lord God Almighty who was and is and is。
to come.。
They're not saying mercy, mercy, mercy is the Lord God Almighty who was and is and is。
to come.。
He says, they say, and have eternally said, and will eternally say, holy, holy, holy is。
the Lord God Almighty who was and is and is to come.。
And that's a throwback to Exodus when God gives us His personal name Yahweh, which means。
I am who I am, or a better translation, but bad English, is I be who I be.。
I was what I was yesterday, I am what I am today, and I will be what I am tomorrow.。
And only God can say that.。
Holiness is the defining adjective of the King and God in whom we worship.。
So His love is a holy love.。
His mercy is a holy mercy.。
His grace is a holy grace.。
And His justice is a holy justice.。
And this matters.。
And the way to think about holiness, because here's where people get the wrath of God wrong.。
The holiness of God is His completeness, His entireness, His moral perfection.。
And so the wrath of God is not rage, it's priestly fire.。
Are you tracking with me on that?。
Like He's not, like maybe you had a dad that was explosive.。
That was my dad.。
He could be really great, and then all of a sudden he'd throw a plate at you.。
I mean, he could be really explosive.。
That's not the God we serve.。
His holiness burns so hot that it will obliterate anything in His presence that's not been washed。
clean.。
And so David, having experienced this holiness, and the people of Israel having known this。
holiness, like they knew Nadab and Abihu and Leviticus 10, 12, who had offered strange。
fire on the altar of God and were incinerated and turned to dust.。
They had watched their boy Uzzah just touch the altar, brother, just trying to help God。
touch it.。
And that story doesn't sit well with us because we don't understand holiness.。
We're like, "Well, that seems unfair.。
He's just trying to help God out."。
And then we could get to the Day of Atonement that already got talked about up here already.。
One person allowed in the presence of God, unbelievable ritual cleansing and able to。
get in, consecrated days before, cloaked in special undies and all that, and then carrying。
in the blood, not knowing if He was coming out.。
They understood what the Bible calls the fear of the Lord in a way that's almost completely。
lost on us.。
And I think if we're going to be, according to the passage we're in, that generation who。
seeks His face, we have to let the weight of this question land on us.。
Who can ascend the mountain of the Lord?。
Who could stand in His holy place?。
Now, I know you might be thinking, "Brother, get out of the Old Testament.。
There's this thing that happens."。
God chills out a bit.。
I'm glad you brought that up because the fear of the Lord is one of the primary themes in。
the New Testament.。
Now, let me clarify for you.。
I'm not talking about the spirit of fear.。
I'm talking about a fear of the Lord.。
You've been set free from a spirit of fear.。
We already sang about that.。
I'm talking about a healthy fear of the Lord.。
So let me give you some of this New Testament goodness.。
This is Philippians 2.12, "Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling."。
Those are two strange adjectives to explain how you and I ought to behave between our。
conversion and either Christ returning or us stopping breathing oxygen.。
So from the moment I become a Christian until all things are made new, what are the two。
primary things I need in my Christian life?。
Well, according to the apostle Paul here, fear and trembling.。
"Again, Paul, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of flesh and spirit, perfecting。
holiness in a fear of God."。
The writer of Hebrews hops in.。
"Let us have grace by which we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear."。
Then the apostle Peter hops in.。
"If you call on the Father, who without partiality judges according to each one's work, conduct。
yourselves throughout your time of stay here in fear."。
The apostle Jude declares, "Save with fear."。
Jesus hops in.。
"Do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul, but rather fear him。
who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell."。
So fear the Lord is like mega fear, awe, terror, profound respect, trembling, dread.。
These aren't just words to describe some minor aspect of the Christian life.。
They identify how our salvation is worked out.。
And so let's talk about that phrase.。
I'll put it on the screen.。
Working out your salvation is a term that describes how our efforts in cooperation with。
and empowered by the Holy Spirit bring to full maturity what Jesus freely provides for。
us.。
Now, every word in that definition matters, right?。
That we are cooperating with but also empowered by the Holy Spirit to do what?。
Live into all that Christ died to bring and give to us in our salvation so that even my。
maturation I don't get to touch the glory for.。
No, no, no.。
Christ has done this.。
The Spirit of God has matured me.。
I have cooperated with the Spirit.。
Listen, this isn't my line but it's a good one.。
The gospel is not opposed to effort.。
It's opposed to earning.。
And so many of you just kind of so lazy in your own development, like stuck in fourth。
grade for years.。
And I'm not trying to, I'm not dogging you.。
It took me two years to get past the fourth grade in the flesh.。
But I'm saying there's so little effort around, so little effort about getting into and forming。
our lives around the presence and power of Jesus.。
Just waiting for the light switch.。
Waiting for the breakthrough.。
I love breakthrough.。
I've experienced it.。
I've seen it.。
It happens.。
Most of your life is going to be like Tuesday.。
Just a Tuesday.。
You're going to wake up and you're going to read your Bible and you're not going to be。
like zapped all of a sudden, overwhelmed, weeping over Leviticus 7.。
That's probably, maybe.。
But man, we don't live breakthrough to breakthrough.。
We don't leave event to event.。
We live in the everyday monotony of human existence which is a mixture of beauty and。
brutality.。
Empowered by efforts in cooperation with.。
Now here's what I want you to know about the fear of the Lord.。
The fear of the Lord is actually invitational.。
It shouldn't be repulsive to us.。
Like we shouldn't hear about the fear of the Lord, see the fear of the Lord, and just go,。
"Ah, that's not really who I signed up to follow."。
That's a strange take on it.。
A fear of the Lord is actually, I think, one of the best gifts he gives us.。
Let me show you how the fear of the Lord has a drawing effect, not a repulsive effect.。
So a fear of the Lord gives me an invitation to hate all sin because sin destroys and God。
sees.。
So where the love of God will not keep me, a fear of the Lord will.。
Are you tracking with me?。
Like, here's something that, like, God knows.。
You don't have any secrets.。
Your secret struggle, which I hate that word, it's not a struggle, it's probably sin.。
I don't want to therapize everything.。
Tell me what your struggle is.。
But porn, porn's not a struggle.。
It's rebellion against God.。
Like, a fear of the Lord, an acknowledgement that God not only sees, but he's in the room。
with me, will hold me where maybe my camp high wore off.。
Fear of the Lord is an invitation to hate injustice because God establishes peace.。
A fear of the Lord bids me to depart evil in every sense, thought, deed, and action。
because it's pleasing to the Lord.。
A fear of the Lord's an invitation to walk in authentic humility because only God is。
great.。
Fear of the Lord's an invitation to praise the one who can hold up under our praise because。
only God is big enough not to betray us.。
A fear of the Lord is the starting place for an intimate relationship with God.。
If Jesus is your homeboy, you're not seeing him rightly.。
So let me say this.。
The fear of the Lord is actually the greatest force of confidence, comfort, and protection。
available to us.。
Let me tell you how you experience this in the natural world.。
If you've ever been to the Grand Canyon, I don't know if you've ever been.。
If you've been, it looks AI, man.。
It totally looks like somebody threw, you know, gave Claude a prompt and had him build。
like it doesn't look real.。
And if you ever get the chance to go there and you stand on the precipice of that giant。
hole in the ground, you will feel absolutely tiny.。
I have no one.。
I don't care how successful they've been.。
I don't care what mountains they've conquered in their life.。
Nobody stands at the precipice of the Grand Canyon, looks out and marvels at how much。
money they made last year or how much they can squat or whatever kind of victory you've。
gained.。
And you sit there like, "Summa Cum Laude, baby!"。
No one.。
You're brought low.。
The size, scope, chasm.。
There's this weird fear thing that kicks up in you and you like it.。
It's weird.。
Or if you've ever been to the ocean, I'm not talking about the Gulf of America.。
That does not count.。
But if you've ever actually seen an ocean like the Pacific or the Atlantic or something。
like that.。
Years ago, I was preaching in Hawaii.。
My wife was with me.。
And as soon as I was done, we'd head to the North Shore.。
And on the North Shore was like the Vans' triple crown of surfing.。
So Pipeline, all that stuff you've seen on YouTube and commercials, that was right in。
front of us.。
We got a couple of lawn chairs and we sat there and there wasn't a chance in heaven。
I was getting in that water.。
The roar was so loud, Lauren and I had to scream to talk to each other.。
That beach was so violent.。
That side, that North Coast was so violent that you kept hearing sirens in the background.。
And these poor tourists get there and they've got their skim boards.。
They've got some little kids with them.。
And the lifeguard over the speaker said, "If you have brought children to this beach, you。
are not a good parent."。
I was like, "Dang, there's only one group here with kids.。
You should have just learned their name."。
Like, "Bill, Tammy, get your kids and get out of here."。
And they packed up and they left.。
Like there was just no way.。
So small, unsafe, and weak.。
It's transcendent.。
And there was something in my soul that said, "That's right.。
That's how it actually is."。
See the bigger God is, the safer you will feel.。
The smaller he is, the more you're going to be given over to anxiety, depression, and。
the thousands of other things that plague the modern spirit.。
Because if God is small, that means you have to be big.。
If God is tiny, that means you better deliver.。
And you and I know, look, I love you.。
I don't even need to know you.。
You make a crummy God.。
You might be a great dude, crummy God.。
You might be a spectacularly gifted woman, terrible God.。
We know this.。
But if God is small, you take out the fear of the Lord, and Jesus is going to dap me。
up and tell me how much he loves me, and he's not able to make the darkness flee.。
If he can't hold me, if he can't keep me, if he can't break the bondage of sin and death,。
then it's on me.。
And I will not be strong enough.。
That's why I'm saying it's invitational to fear the Lord, to see him as he is, as difficult。
as that might be for modern sensibility, roots us in his power in a way that keeps us.。
So he asks the question, and then he goes on to answer the question.。
It's still not good news.。
The one who has clean hands and a pure heart, who has not appealed to what is false, who。
has not sworn deceitfully.。
So let's just, I'll run through these quickly.。
Clean hands, he whose hands are free from acts of sin.。
Let me give you a moment to look around.。
Let's go ahead, catch some eyes.。
I'm not talking about throwing game right now, right?。
Fear of the Lord.。
Be like, "Uh-uh."。
Like here's what you just saw.。
Look at me.。
No one with clean hands.。
For all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God.。
All we like sheep have gone astray.。
There's no one with clean hands.。
Like here's what's crazy.。
The Ten Commandments hung on the wall in kindergarten when I was growing up.。
Now I'm 52.。
I'm old like Pat Paul Chandler up here.。
But I'll tell you this.。
They thought somebody read the Ten Commandments when a five-year-old could understand that.。
Completely powerless to keep them.。
Like watch, we'll just take the test real quick.。
Anybody in here, just because God's in the room, and like if you loved things, pursued。
things, given your heart over to things more than you have God, that's gonna, if your hand's。
not up, I'm just gonna categorize you as a liar and just know, okay, great.。
Liars in the room.。
Great place for you to be, right?。
We could just go through all the Ten Commandments.。
Here's what you're gonna score.。
A zero.。
Achievers.。
How that landed on you?。
Because I grew up in the day when you failed, you just failed.。
Nobody's like, we don't want it to damage his soul.。
Let him take the test again.。
We just failed.。
And somebody said amen.。
Some other old head is up.。
That's right.。
So the Ten Commandments were given not just so that you could obey them, but to show you。
you can't.。
You can't.。
Weak as you are in the flesh.。
You can't.。
Nobody's got clean hands.。
All are guilty.。
All have gone astray.。
And then he goes to pure heart.。
God demands upon his people, go beyond the domain of action.。
And so who can get in the presence of God?。
Who can ascend the holy mountain, get up on the holy hill?。
He who's got clean hands, we're all out.。
And then he goes even deeper, and he who has a pure heart.。
Now, what I love about this is it's not perfect heart.。
It's pure heart.。
And that's going to matter when the gospel finally slams into us.。
It's not perfect in heart.。
It's pure in heart.。
Honest.。
They don't lie to themselves, and they don't lie to God.。
Does not appeal to what is false.。
This is that idea, appealing to what is false, as they haven't lusted after vain and worthless。
things.。
They have subdued their desires that have not given in to their stomach.。
We have a dog named Woodrow.。
I like Woods.。
He's a good pup.。
I wouldn't consider him family.。
He's not in our family pictures at Christmas time.。
He doesn't have any clothes.。
He's a dog.。
He's a great, great dog.。
Yeah, Woods.。
And Woods has some compulsions that no amount of training has been able to subdue in him.。
He will, he doesn't have a prefrontal cortex, but he will choose wrath over blessing.。
Over and over and over and over again.。
Like in our house, because he's an athletic dog.。
He's an Australian Shepherd, wicked smart, fast, like clever girl, kind of Jurassic Park-y.。
And we have to push our food to the middle of the kitchen island, because that little。
joker will jump up and just snatch off your plate.。
And he knows that is not without consequence.。
He just can't seem to control himself.。
He'll take it.。
He'll eat my fajitas and then live his best life outside in 107 for the next three days.。
Right?。
Don't email me about how cruel that is, because I want to remind you, he's a dog.。
And we've got a pool.。
He can just swim around in there and not die.。
He has not died yet.。
And it doesn't matter how many times we've done that.。
Woodrow cannot control himself.。
That's what's in view here.。
Who can ascend?。
He hasn't sworn by what's false.。
They haven't given themselves over to their compulsions.。
They haven't given in to those sexual impulses that go against the design of God.。
They haven't given in to the violence that goes against the design of God.。
They haven't given in to the lies and manipulation that go against the design.。
They have subdued their compulsions and have not sworn by what's false or appealed to what。
is false.。
And then lastly, he says, they have not sworn deceitfully.。
False swearing is the worst, or at any rate, one of the worst sins of the tongue.。
It means tearing someone down so that you might be exalted.。
Now I don't know if you're keeping score here, but if those are 25 points apiece, we're repeating。
the fourth grade again.。
So David here, in trying to answer the question, who can get into the presence of God, means。
to say that a man or woman is not fit to draw near to God unless he is righteous in act,。
in thought, and in word.。
So we're still stuck.。
Do you feel that?。
Like if the clean fuel that our soul was meant to run on is the presence of God, and if we。
get into the presence of God as we are, we would be like ooze, we'd be obliterated.。
We'd be like the sun's giving, you know, strange fire, obliterated.。
Like what do we do?。
Well this is where the gospel is brought to bear on our situation.。
This is Ephesians 2, 12 through 13.。
At that time you were without Christ, excluded from the citizenship of Israel and foreigners。
to the covenants of promise, without hope and without God in the world.。
But now, in Christ Jesus, you who were far away have been brought near by the blood of。
Christ.。
We don't ascend to the mountain of the Lord.。
We are brought up to the mountain of the Lord by the blood of Jesus.。
And I loved the little, she didn't even know where I was going, that beautiful young woman。
that was telling you about the blood.。
Like it's weird that we sing about blood.。
Like if you don't have a church background, you come to a Christian thing and we're like。
the blood, the blood, the blood, oh the marvelous blood.。
People are like what in the?。
Only like death metal and Christians sing about blood.。
But we're saying, I don't have to spend long here, you already heard it.。
The blood of Christ cleanses us from all unrighteousness and then the writer of Hebrews says he died。
once and for all for those who are perishing.。
So the blood of Christ cleanses me from all unrighteousness, past, present and future,。
fully, freely and forever.。
So when the blood of Christ washes over me, hands are clean and I can now come with a。
pure heart to the presence of God.。
And this is the thing that I think many of you have created distance from God because。
you think he wants perfect in heart.。
But Jesus says blessed are the pure in heart.。
Look at me, for they will see God.。
So look here, let's make some eye contact.。
You disappointed in God in this season of your life?。
Be a beautiful conversation to have with him.。
I don't know why you feel like you have to hide that, nobody in the Bible hid it.。
David, how long oh Lord will you forsake me?。
Will you forsake me forever?。
You ever felt that one?。
Well David had the courage to say it to him.。
Jeremiah, you deceived me and I was deceived.。
If you were in your little home group or Sunday school class, brother next to you was like。
you lied to me and I let you, you deceived me and I, you'd be like bro, you all right?。
Come over here for a second.。
Let me get you in our deliverance program here at the church.。
You got something wrong here.。
Like Moses, these are the blessed are the pure in heart.。
Like the blood of Jesus cleanses us from all unrighteousness and therefore we can go in。
as we are because Jesus knew what he was buying on the cross.。
Hey look at me, you're not, he's not disappointed now in real time.。
Like he's thinking back like that, now that I'm watching this brother in 2026, I totally。
regret what I did.。
That's not how this works.。
But why is the cross so grotesque?。
Because our sin is and you have not out sinned him.。
I don't even care.。
I don't need to know what's in your life.。
I know my Bible and I know only Jesus and Daniel could get hired at the village church.。
Nobody else is passing the background check.。
Moses, Moses killed the dude with his hands too dumb to hide the body well.。
50 years later, dude still flies in a rage and bashes the rock with his staff.。
Like growing in, where am I going to put Mo?。
You're going to work with the teenagers?。
No, he's going to jail.。
We're going to be in the news.。
David, a man after God's own heart.。
I got a fine wife.。
I ain't hiring that brother.。
He'll send me on an errand.。
I'll get killed.。
He'd be married to my girl.。
I ain't hiring David.。
I can tell you that.。
I don't care how well he sings or how good he'd be on the security team.。
David's out.。
Like pick somebody.。
They're scoundrels on whom the favor of God rested.。
Get over yourself.。
The blood of Christ cleanses us from all unrights.。
So now I can just bring my heart to him.。
I hate this lust in me.。
Help me, the broken and contrite in spirit he will never despise.。
I get lonely and then I swipe left and I blow it.。
Help me.。
I just freak out and get so angry.。
It feels like it's just bursting out of me.。
Christ help me.。
You don't create distance from him.。
He doesn't want distance from you.。
He wants all of you, mind, body, and soul.。
And no one else is giving you that deal.。
Not your future spouse or your spouse right now.。
And don't do that thing where you rub your baby's hand.。
Like not us, babe.。
All the life.。
Lies.。
Frickin' lies.。
Frickin' lies.。
Like my girl don't know my thoughts.。
And that's good.。
Do you know how many fights we don't get in because wisdom has told me don't say that。
out loud?。
It's not perverse.。
It's not evil.。
It's just gonna cause a fight.。
But Jesus knows all my thoughts and has still moved towards me in grace.。
It's scandalous.。
Christ the blood of Christ.。
Pure in heart.。
The power of the Holy Spirit through the blood of Christ puts to death my sinful nature.。
That doesn't mean I'm not gonna stumble.。
It means I'm no longer a slave to sin.。
That by the power of the Holy Spirit I can in community, accountability, and with discipline。
order a life where my compulsions don't own me.。
Before Christ they absolutely owned me.。
In Christ.。
Power of the Holy Spirit empowered, cooperating with.。
I'm not giving that thought a neuropathway.。
I'm taking every thought captive unto Christ and I'm turning my attention to that Philippians。
4, 8 list.。
Whatever's true, whatever's noble, whatever's, think on that stuff.。
The Holy Spirit empowers me.。
And then I don't have, I don't have to be better than anybody else.。
I just have to be who God's calling me to be.。
Like I need to live in such a way that I don't, I don't care if you like me or not.。
I just need to be obedient to Christ here today.。
I don't need to live like the outcome matters.。
No, obedience matters.。
Because if the outcome matters then I'm gonna start to be manipulative in a way that's ungodly.。
So I've gotta believe in the gospel now, 33 years after I first received it.。
That's who can ascend the mountain of the Lord and who can dwell in his holy place.。
Those who have been washed by the blood of Jesus.。
Look at verse 5, cause there's a reward here.。
He will receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation.。
So to the man or woman who comes to God with an honest and true heart, God will give additional。
graces, justification, assurance, perseverance, unwavering hope.。
And I love this idea, it's not our language, but this idea of perfect charity.。
It's the spiritual reward of completeness, selfless love and generosity, perfectly beginning。
to mirror God's own character and serving as the culmination of the Christian's response。
to his grace.。
I'm over and it's fine.。
I'm a Gen Xer, 52.。
So I grew up different.。
I'm not making a moral judgment here.。
So yeah, I'm not moralizing this.。
I'm just telling you how things were.。
I grew up in a day where no parent or teacher was overly concerned about my big feelings.。
Like I never had a parent or teacher pull me aside.。
I'm like, "Oh, somebody's really bothered today.。
Why don't you go over in the corner, take a couple of deep breaths and breathe that。
out."。
No, no, no.。
Everyone could spank you growing up.。
Like every teacher I had had their own paddle.。
I'm not making this stuff up.。
And then in every school, there was a rumor about the principal's paddle having some sort。
of supernatural power.。
It was electric or it had holes in it.。
And then I had a dad who knew me well enough to know that if the teacher said something。
about me, it was not because the teacher had it out for me, but his son was a loud mouth,。
super hyper, out of control, prepupescent wild man.。
And so the way it worked growing up for me, again, not moralizing this, I probably don't。
think it's a good idea for strangers to be able to spank other people's kids.。
It was just the day we were in.。
And my daddy's rule was that if I got pops, as they were called, at school, there was。
a plus one majority waiting for home.。
All right?。
Any other old heads in here got a little bit of that?。
Oh, man, y'all ain't even old, man.。
Just old school.。
All right, just old school.。
That's real.。
You don't have to be old.。
You might just grow up some old school parents.。
And so here's what that did.。
I'm not trying to moralize it.。
I'm saying that the understanding that if I do that thing that gets me disciplined at。
school, then there's greater discipline coming.。
And you might not like this idea, but here's what I need you to hear me say as I quote。
the Bible.。
The book of Hebrews says that God disciplines those who are his children and scourges all。
those who he calls sons.。
So the discipline of the Lord is real.。
If he loves you, he will discipline you.。
So little Matt, little hyperactive, barely passing Matt, that would hold me.。
Are you tracking with what I'm trying to do here?。
It would be like, "I want to get Pops by Miss McQuonisay and then go home and get plus one。
from Big Steve."。
Big Steve built his own paddle.。
He named it.。
He built it in the garage.。
Literally, he was like, "What's dad doing?。
He's making something."。
And he came and he introduced us to his paddle.。
He named it the last resort.。
And before God, it was not.。
Sometimes it was like a prequel.。
He was like, "I'm sure you got away with something."。
But that fear, the fear of that, it constrained me in a good way.。
And so as we're looking at this text, and as I've heard you sing and verbalize that。
you want to be that generation that seeks his face, that seeks the face of the God of。
Jacob, this is what's in view.。
Look at our last verse here in Psalm 24.。
Such is the generation of those who inquire of him, who seek the face of the God of Jacob.。
And then he ends with "Sela."。
I love that.。
It's just like, I've said a lot.。
Stop.。
Just think about it.。
Don't hurry up and move on to Psalm 25 because it's in your Bible reading plan.。
But here with this, steep in what I just said, to ascend the mountain of the Lord is a miracle。
brought about by the shed blood, the death, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ, freely。
given to those who would by faith believe.。
You'd be given clean hands.。
You can't clean your hands.。
He cleanses them from you.。
He cleanses you from all unrighteousness.。
You can't cleanse you from all your unrighteousness.。
So God does in Christ.。
He grants you a pure heart and the invitation to bring that pure heart to him.。
I'm wondering how many of you in here right now are in a season where you've created distance。
from God because you just won't go tell God what's going on in your heart because you。
think he can't hold it.。
Jesus gives us the Holy Spirit to help bring compulsions into subjugation so that we're。
not like Woodrow driven by our stomach, but choosing external moral righteousness because。
God said and God has strengthened and he's empowered and he loves me and I'd rather not。
receive his discipline for being dumb.。
And then he frees my tongue to be one of blessing and not competition.。
And according to the text, this is what those who inquire of the Lord and seek him look。
like.。
So I'm going to end with this quote and then I'm going to just call us to respond.。
This is John Eldredge.。
The act of consecration is repairing the wiring, the first step before God's protection。
and provision can flow.。
It is the fresh act of dedicating yourself or your home, a relationship, a job, your。
sexuality, whatever needs God's grace deliberately and intentionally to Jesus, bringing it fully。
into his kingdom and under his rule.。
So I'm going to ask the band to come on out.。
I'd love for you to just bow your heads and close your eyes.。
I'm just going to ask some questions so we know kind of how to move here.。
I think if you've got a church background, and I know not everybody does, the tendency。
when I ask a question is to have the Sunday school answer and to give the Sunday school。
answer rather than the answer that's there.。
And so my fear right now is if I said, "How many of you have been living flippantly when。
it comes to God?"。
No real holy fear, no life not marked by the fear of the Lord alone.。
You might just out of reflex go, "Yeah, no, no, I do.。
I fear the Lord."。
And so let me ask maybe some sub questions.。
Where's there sin in your life that you don't hate?。
Where do you not hate sin?。
Because if you don't hate that sin, you don't fear the Lord.。
You're doing what Paul says is presuming upon the grace of God.。
And so where are you just allowing sin to continue?。
Where are you not treating with great violence the thoughts of your mind, the actions of。
your...。
Now just remember, it's not that God knows that you're doing that.。
It's that he's in the room with you.。
And so I wonder if you'd be so bold in here today before we respond to just say, "Man,。
I have not let the weight of the fear of the Lord lay over my heart and mind, and I need。
to repent of that."。
If that's you in the room, just lift your hand high like you don't have any kind of。
Baptist roots or anything.。
All right, all over.。
Yes, I do.。
I think it's an epidemic.。
Okay, thank you.。
Why don't you put your hands down?。
Another thing that I just want to ask is I have noticed even out where I am in the suburbs,。
a real uptick in what would be neo-paganism.。
It would be singing that song to Dagon.。
It'd be trusting in the little G gods of Egypt.。
So seeking direction, finding peace, trying to soothe your soul through crystals and mediums。
and witchcraft.。
Listen, I roll do jujitsu with a guy who's a wildly successful white-collar businessman。
who has a pagan altar in his house.。
They pray to and sing to.。
She's this Celtic deity that seems to have some weird stronghold up by me.。
People are worshiping these demons, and they're real.。
They'll give them good things early on, but then the bill always comes due.。
And when the bill comes due, we can't pay.。
Only Christ gives freely.。
Only Christ gives in a way that the record of debt is canceled.。
And I'm wondering, if you're in the room, you're just kind of screwing around with some。
of that stuff, and it feels harmless to you, but you need to just go, "Ah, no, no, no.。
I don't want to sing to Dagon.。
I want to bow like Dagon had to before the presence and power of God."。
If that's you, and you're in the room, and you're like, "Man, I've just been screwing。
around with that stuff.。
It felt harmless to me, but I need to walk away."。
If that's you, would you raise your hand?。
The Spirit's probably doing a hundred things in the room, and so I just want to invite。
you to respond.。
If you've never said yes to Jesus, this is a great day to do that.。
There were hundreds of you that have been like, "I've been flippant before the Holy。
God.。
I've lived my life in a way as to communicate that this isn't that big of a deal, even though。
it cost Jesus his life."。
And so I'm going to pray for us, and then I'm going to stand.。
We're going to sing a little bit.。
But if you're feeling or sensing conviction from the Holy Spirit, I'm going to ask you。
to do something with that.。
Like the Lord doesn't owe you that.。
You might not ever feel that conviction again.。
Conviction is an invitation into greater intimacy with God.。
Guilt and shame don't work that way.。
They move you from Him.。
Conviction's an invitation to come to Him.。
He can hold your shame.。
He has defeated sin and death.。
You can put your trust in Him.。
I'm about to pray, and then we're going to move.。
I feel led to press on this.。
Man, if you're a church kid and you've never made it yours, like you know about Jesus,。
you could probably argue with me about stuff.。
You're running around the Bible.。
You go to church.。
But if we were honest, you're kind of Christian adjacent more than you're Christian.。
You have no real relationship with Christ yourself.。
You're just doing the stuff that you think you should be doing to call yourself a Christian.。
Oh, man, I want more for you, and I think Jesus wants more for you than that.。
Maybe today's the day.。
You say, "It's not my parents' faith anymore.。
It's mine."。
And you surrender your life fully to Jesus.。
Even if you did it when you were eight years old and you did that because you thought if。
you did it, your parents would be proud or something like that, maybe today could be。
the day of actual salvation for you.。
So Father, I pray a blessing over these men and women.。
We seek to consecrate our lives unto You.。
We don't want to live flippant, like our sin is no big deal.。
We don't want to live in such a way that communicates that You're death on the cross and that You。
came and You put on flesh and blood and dwelt among us.。
We don't want to live like that's no big thing.。
We want to be blown away by Your grace.。
And Spirit, we sang this, and it's so true.。
If You won't prevail upon our hearts, we can't just decide to walk in holy fear and contrition.。
And so I pray that old prayer from the Puritans that You would give us the gift of tears today,。
that You would break our hearts over our sin, and that we might then, by Your grace, receive。
the grace made available to us in the person and work of Jesus.。
And it's for Your beautiful name I pray, Amen.。
