[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Across the world, pain comes in many forms.。
War, poverty, persecution.。
We hear bad news every day.。
Your ability to worship is restricted or forbidden.。
And in the hardest to reach places in the world,。
bad news isn't just on social media or TV.。
It's on their streets.。
It's breaking up their homes.。
It's attacking their churches.。
These distant places are home to billions。
of people who have never heard the name of Jesus.。
How will they hear?。
Who will tell them there is hope for the hopeless,。
food for the hungry, water for the thirsty?。
The gospel of Jesus for broken sinners.。
You have heard of it.。
But who will tell them?。
[APPLAUSE]。
Really good to be at the porch.。
I only have a few minutes tonight。
to talk about the greatest injustice in the world.。
So I'm just going to jump right in, if that's all right.。
Let me tell you where the next few minutes are going.。
At the end of our time together, I'm。
going to offer you a specific invitation。
to stand right where you are in this room,。
or I know I've prayed over those of you who are in Fort Worth,。
and Houston, and Austin, and Midland, and Scottsdale,。
and Boise, and Tulsa, and Cincinnati, and Des Moines,。
and Indianapolis, and Lafayette.。
So even though you're not in the room,。
this invitation is for you to stand right where you are.。
If you would be willing to put a stake in the ground tonight。
and say the following--。
I'm going to put it up here on the screen.。
If you'd be willing to say, God, I。
will do whatever you call me to do, no matter what it costs,。
to get the gospel to people who have never heard it.。
God, I will do whatever you call me to do,。
no matter what it costs, to get the gospel to people who've。
never heard it.。
So key words in the statement would be God.。
This is you standing before God.。
It's not about standing because somebody else is standing,。
or you think you should stand, or you feel bad sitting.。
It's about you soberly saying to the God who made you,。
who loves you, before whom you will stand one day,。
and to say that you will do whatever,。
so no strings attached.。
God, if that is to pack my bags and move somewhere else,。
anywhere else in the world, I will do it.。
If that is to sell my possessions, any possessions,。
if that is to stay single, or if that is to only marry somebody。
else who's saying the same thing,。
it would make no sense to say this and then marry somebody。
who's not saying this.。
So you're at a minimum reducing the number。
of people you would marry.。
So we're talking about major decisions in your life,。
now, in the future, and the rest of your life.。
This is saying, God, whenever, wherever, however,。
whatever you call me to do, no matter what it costs,。
knowing that there is absolutely no way for you。
to carry out this commitment without cost,。
without sacrifice.。
This is not for everybody.。
Many of you are not ready to say this, so don't stand.。
We're talking about sacrifice to do what?。
To get the gospel, it's the good news of God's love in Jesus,。
to people, to men, women, and kids, and young adults,。
just like you and me, who follow this, have never heard it.。
And people who've never heard the gospel.。
I'm gonna show you a map up here on the screen。
that is based on a Research Joshua project,。
and we as Radical have worked with them together on,。
but there's obviously three main colors on this map.。
You've got green, yellow, and red.。
The green areas of this map represent places。
where the gospel has gone, where there are Christians。
in churches spreading the gospel.。
Obviously, it doesn't mean that everybody。
in those green areas is a follower of Jesus.。
We know that. It's not true in Texas,。
and there's a lot of Christians in churches in Texas.。
So the green areas are places where disciples have been made。
and churches have been planted,。
and there's gospel spreading that's able to happen.。
Yellow areas are places that are less reached by the gospel,。
and it's usually going in one of two directions.。
So either like, picture Europe.。
These are places, some of them,。
where the gospel used to be prevalent。
and has waned in influence,。
and so there's a lot less gospel access now,。
or it could be going the other way.。
The gospel's recently come to a place,。
and it's growing, but it's still not widespread.。
And then there's the red areas on this map,。
and the red areas are where unreached people live.。
And what that word "unreached" means is not just lost.。
It's not just that they are sinners。
who are separated from God by their sin.。
People are just like that in Dallas, Texas.。
The difference is there's Christians。
in churches in Dallas, Texas.。
In the middle of Saudi Arabia,。
there's very few Christians in very few churches,。
and what that means is if you live in Saudi Arabia,。
the likelihood is you've not been reached by the gospel.。
You don't have access to the gospel around you.。
You don't have a Christian or a church near you。
where somebody can share with you。
the good news of God's love in Jesus.。
You're unreached by it.。
Practically, what that means is you'd be born,。
and you'd live, and you'd die,。
and the likelihood is you'd never hear the gospel.。
This is why we don't say, "I don't know why we talk。
"about unreached people around the world.。
"I mean, there's unreached people in my office,。
"or there's unreached people in my neighborhood.。
"Those people are not unreached."。
You say, "How do you know?"。
'Cause they're in your office or your neighborhood.。
Like, they have access to the gospel.。
You're it.。
We're talking about people who don't have access。
to the gospel in this red area,。
and that red area includes about 3.2 billion people.。
3.2 billion people who will die。
without ever hearing the gospel。
if somebody doesn't go there,。
or if the few believers who are there。
don't get help and support.。
They're unreached.。
And here's the deal.。
I actually believe we can reach them.。
Not any one of us individually,。
but all of us together as the church.。
Think about the world we live in today,。
globalization, urbanization, the move of people to cities,。
ease of travel, new technologies.。
We have more opportunities to spread the gospel。
in the world than we've ever had before in history.。
The church in the first century could have only dreamed。
about the opportunities we have to reach the nations.。
It took them months to sail from one city to the next.。
You and I can get to the other side of the world。
in a day.。
They had to write letters that would take weeks,。
months to be delivered between social media,。
translation software, the metaverse,。
and we can communicate with people around the world。
in real time from what's in our pocket.。
I look out across this room,。
and I think about others in different places,。
and whether it's some who are college students。
getting degrees that will open doors,。
others who have degrees, have jobs,。
that have opened doors to get into places in the red.。
For any nurses, doctors, medical students,。
I could point you tonight to hundreds of jobs。
right in the heart of the Middle East for you to get,。
where they will pay you to come share the gospel there.。
I mean, they don't know that's what they're paying you to do.。
But the same's true for teachers, engineers,。
entrepreneurs, business leaders, fitness specialists.。
I could go on and on and on.。
In addition to all the jobs we can get here。
in one of the wealthiest places in the history of the world。
that can support work in the red.。
But it all starts with saying,。
God, I will do whatever you call me to do,。
no matter what it costs,。
to get the gospel to people who have never heard it.。
In order to lead to this invitation。
for some of you to stand and to say this,。
I actually wanna do something a little different.。
I wanna flip this idea around for a moment。
and ask the question, what if we don't stand and say this?。
In other words, what happens if we don't do。
whatever God calls us to do?。
What happens if we don't sacrifice,。
we don't get the gospel to people who've never heard it?。
What happens to 3.2 billion people when they die。
if we don't get the gospel to them?。
That's a pretty important question, isn't it?。
For like 3 billion people in the world?。
And I think for most Christians in America。
where the gospel has come,。
either we don't realize there are 3 billion people。
in the world who've never heard the gospel,。
or we think they'll be okay when they die,。
they'll go to heaven.。
That's the only answer I can come up with。
for why we are not talking about this。
all the time in our churches。
and everywhere in Christianity today.。
Like if we believed 3 billion people were dying。
and going to hell without ever hearing about heaven,。
I think we'd be talking about that all the time.。
Like we have to do something.。
And not just a few of us here or there, like all of us,。
we gotta do something, we gotta pull our resources together,。
we gotta go, we gotta send, we gotta get behind。
brothers and sisters who are already there.。
Like this is not tolerable.。
We're passionate about justice.。
Is there any greater injustice than 3 billion people。
going to an eternal hell while all the people who know。
how to go to an eternal heaven sit back。
and do little to nothing?。
Which is, by the way, what we are doing.。
Like we've done the research.。
We spend most of our money on ourselves.。
We give some of our money to churches and ministries.。
And we spend most of that money in churches and ministries。
on making ourselves more comfortable in our churches。
and ministries.。
And then there's a small percentage of the money。
that we give to churches and ministries。
that goes toward what we normally call it, like missions,。
overseas to other countries, to work in other countries.。
We give a very small percentage to that.。
But out of that percentage that we give to missions,。
do you know how much of that goes to red areas on the map?。
Approximately 1% of our missions giving.。
We spend 99% of our missions giving on green areas,。
Latin America, Sub-Saharan Africa, Europe.。
I'm not saying it's bad to give to what God is doing。
among our brothers and sisters in green areas.。
But we're fooling ourselves if we think we're passionate。
about giving to missions while we're ignoring。
3 billion people who've never heard the gospel.。
And even missionaries, most missionaries who go,。
go to places that are green on this map,。
which I guess makes sense if the people in the red。
are going to heaven.。
But it makes no sense if they're going to hell.。
So what does the Bible say?。
What does God tell us happens to them?。
I just want to show you what the Bible says about them。
in a way that I hope will leave us with a clear answer。
to what happens if we don't do whatever God calls us to do。
no matter the cost to get the gospel to them.。
So could I just encourage you to write this down。
either physically in some way,。
or at least imprint it on your mind and your heart。
so there's clarity about what happens to them,。
to this 3.2 billion people?。
So first thing we know about them,。
this is all, if you want to follow along in your Bible,。
I want you to pull it out, Romans.。
We'll start in chapter one and then we're going to be。
in Romans for all these different things。
we're going to learn about them.。
So starting in Romans one, verse 18,。
if you don't have a Bible, you can follow along on the screen.。
So first thing we know about these 3.2 billion,。
they have knowledge of God.。
They have knowledge of God.。
This is Romans chapter one, verse 18.。
The wrath of God is being revealed from heaven。
against all the godlessness and wickedness of men。
who suppress the truth of God by their wickedness。
since what may be known about God is plain to them。
because God has made it plain to them.。
For since the creation of the world,。
God's invisible qualities, his eternal power。
and divine nature have been clearly seen,。
being understood from what has been made。
so that men are without excuse, clearly seen who God is.。
Then it says in verse 21, although they knew God,。
they have knowledge of God.。
All the people in the red, no matter where they live,。
who they are, have knowledge of God.。
God's revealed himself in creation。
to every single one of them.。
Of course, they don't all acknowledge or believe in God,。
which leads to the second thing about them.。
They have all rejected God.。
Romans chapter one, verse 21 makes this clear.。
Although they knew God, they neither glorified him as God。
nor gave thanks to him, but their thinking became futile。
and their foolish hearts were darkened.。
Although they claimed to be wise, they became fools。
and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images。
made to look like mortal man and birds。
and animals and reptiles.。
Therefore God gave them over。
from the sinful desire of their hearts。
to sexual impurity for the degrading of their bodies。
with one another.。
They exchanged the truth of God for a lie。
and they worshiped and served created things。
rather than the creator who is forever praised.。
So they all rejected God.。
They've not glorified him as God.。
They've turned aside from him as God.。
And to be clear, this is not just talking about。
them, it's talking about every single person in the world,。
yellow, green, red, including every single one of us。
in this gathering tonight.。
This is the reality of sin in every single person's heart,。
in my heart, in your heart, and in every person。
around the world.。
We have all sinned against God.。
We've turned aside from God's ways to our own ways,。
from God's truth to our thoughts.。
We have rejected God and they have all rejected God.。
Which leads to the third truth about them.。
And again, this is not even just talking。
about those in the red.。
In a way, this applies to all of us.。
None of them are innocent before God.。
Not one of them.。
These initial chapters in Romans are so sobering.。
From Romans 1, 18 to 2, 16, you see the sinfulness。
of Gentiles outside of the covenant people of God.。
Then around chapter two, verse 17,。
all the way to chapter three, verse eight,。
you see the Jewish people, covenant people of God,。
described in their sinfulness.。
And then you get to verse nine, or verse 10,。
it says, "As it is written, there is no one righteous,。
"not even one."。
No one.。
So see the repetition here, who understands?。
No one who seeks God.。
All have turned away.。
They've become worthless.。
There is no one who does good, not even one.。
Could it be any clearer that all people。
are guilty of sin before God?。
And here's why this is so important,。
because I think about how this question is most often asked.。
Somebody will say to me, "What do you think happens。
"to the innocent man or woman or child。
"in X part of the world who never hears the gospel?"。
If you ask me that question, I would say,。
based on the word of God,。
that person without question goes to heaven,。
even though they've never heard the gospel.。
If they're innocent, why do they need to hear。
how they can be saved from sin?。
Of course they go to heaven.。
The only problem is they don't exist.。
There's no innocent people in the world。
just waiting to hear the gospel.。
There's guilty people all over the world.。
That's why they need to hear the gospel.。
See how even when we ask the question,。
we always bias it against God and toward us。
as if God is unjustly putting innocent people。
in a state of condemnation.。
We have no clue the depth of the sinfulness。
of our own hearts.。
The sinfulness in the world around us.。
There is no one who is innocent before God,。
including every single person in the red。
who is guilty before God, which leads to truth number four.。
They all stand condemned for rejecting God.。
This is the end of this argument,。
this part in Romans chapter three, verse 19.。
We know that whatever the law says,。
it says to those who are under the law,。
so that every mouth is silenced.。
The whole world is held accountable to God.。
And no one, there it is again,。
will be declared righteous in God's sight。
by the works of the law.。
In other words, by what he does.。
Rather through the law, we become conscious of sin.。
Not only are all people guilty,。
but there's no amount of good we can do。
to overcome our guilt.。
All people are condemned for rejecting God.。
And that's true regardless of whether or not。
someone has heard the gospel.。
And this is really significant because,。
well, let me ask you a question.。
Like, think about this with me.。
Do you think it would be just for God。
to condemn someone to hell for not believing in the gospel。
if they never had a chance to hear the gospel?。
Do you think it would be just for God。
to condemn someone to hell for not believing in the gospel。
when they never even had a chance to hear the gospel?。
I think the answer to that question is no.。
Not accountable for what they've not heard.。
At the same time, that doesn't mean they go to heaven。
because they're condemned for rejecting the God。
that has been clearly shown to them.。
And here's why this is so important,。
'cause people start to think,。
well, maybe, maybe if,。
because they haven't heard the gospel,。
that God will let them into heaven.。
God is loving, gracious.。
We know he wants them in heaven.。
If they haven't heard the gospel,。
maybe he will let them in because they haven't heard.。
But let's think about that for a second.。
If that were true,。
then what is the worst thing we could do。
for all the people in the red?。
Tell them the gospel.。
If they have not heard the gospel,。
and that is some kind of pass into heaven,。
and we get there and we're like,。
I wanna tell you the good news,。
and because we've come with the good news,。
now there's a chance they could go to hell,。
they'd be like, just keep it to yourself.。
And just think about it practically.。
You walk up on the streets of somebody in Dallas,。
you say to someone, have you heard。
the God's love for you and Jesus?。
They say, no, I don't know anything about that.。
If you believe that person is going to heaven。
precisely because they've never heard,。
then what do you say to them?。
Say, well, somebody tries to tell you about Jesus,。
just put your fingers in your ears。
and start yelling really loud and run the other way.。
And this is the whole point of the enterprise of the church,。
this is what we do, this is good news。
that we proclaim to people who have rejected God.。
The point here is that regardless。
of whether or not someone has heard the gospel,。
all people stand guilty before God and sin。
and deserve eternal separation from Him.。
They all stand condemned for rejecting God.。
And at this point, I picture Paul writing the book of Romans。
and it's been two chapters worth。
of just the sinfulness of man,。
all the way to chapter three, verse 20.。
Picture him with tears in his eyes,。
but then I picture him picking up the pen。
and writing, but now, our righteousness from God,。
apart from the law has been made known.。
And this righteousness from God comes through faith。
in Jesus Christ for all who believe.。
There is no difference for all have sinned。
and fall what, short of the glory of God and our.。
Oh, don't just memorize the bad news.。
They are, I think I got it up here,。
justified freely by His grace。
and the redemption that came by Christ Jesus.。
Truth number five, God loves them。
and God has made a way of salvation。
for all 3.2 billion of them.。
God loves them just like God loves us.。
This is the gospel.。
God has made a way for us to be saved from our sin.。
I don't assume everybody who's here tonight。
has put your faith in Jesus.。
Hear this good news.。
Maybe this is the first time you are hearing the gospel.。
It's the greatest news in the world.。
Though you have sinned against God。
and are separated from Him。
and deserve eternal separation from Him,。
God has not left you alone in this state.。
God has come to us in the person of Jesus.。
He has lived the life we could not live,。
a life of no sin.。
And then even though He had no sin for which to die,。
He chose to die on a cross to pay the price。
for the sins of anyone who would trust in Him.。
He lived the life we couldn't live.。
He died the death that we deserve to die.。
And the good news keeps getting better。
'cause He didn't stay dead for long.。
Three days later, He rose from the grave。
in victory over sin and death。
so that anyone, anywhere,。
including anybody in this gathering。
and anybody in the red who turns from their sin。
and trusts in Jesus,。
God will forgive you of all your sin。
and restore you to relationship with Him for eternal life.。
(congregation applauding)。
It's the gospel.。
It's the greatest news in the world.。
(congregation laughing)。
And it's not just for us.。
It's for them too.。
Which leads to truth number six.。
They cannot come to God apart from faith in Jesus.。
This is the way to eternal life.。
Faith in Jesus, verse 27 in Romans 3.。
"Where then is boasting?。
"It's excluded.。
"On what principle?。
"That of observing the law?。
"No, but on that of faith.。
"A man is justified, made right before God。
"by faith apart from observing the law."。
Not based on what we do.。
Is God the God of Jews only?。
Is He not the God of Gentiles too?。
Yes, of Gentiles too.。
So there's only one God who will justify。
the circumcised, the Jewish people,。
by faith and the uncircumcised,。
the Gentiles, through that same faith.。
This is how they can be saved from their sin,。
by faith in Jesus.。
Which is, well,。
3.2 billion people living with all kinds of ideas。
of how to get to God.。
I think about, I think about standing。
in one of those red areas, outside a temple.。
One guy worships at that temple,。
another guy worships at a different temple。
for a different religion.。
And I'm standing there, we're talking.。
And they're talking to me like,。
"Hey, our religions are fundamentally the same.。
"They're just kind of superficially different.。
"Like we all, we may use different terms,。
"we all can't believe the same thing."。
I'm just listening.。
And after a while I said,。
"It's almost like you guys picture God,。
"or whatever you wanna call Him,。
"at the top of a mountain,。
"and we're all at the bottom of a mountain.。
"And you may take this path up,。
"and I may take this path up,。
"but in the end we'll find ourselves in the same place."。
And they smiled, they said,。
"Exactly, you understand."。
I said, "Well, what if I told you。
"that the God at the top of the mountain。
"didn't wait for us to find our way up there,。
"but He actually came down the mountain to where we are,。
"and took us up Himself?"。
They said, "That would be great."。
I said, "Let me introduce you to the difference.。
"This is Jesus, God has come to us.。
"It's taken His hand, it's trusting in Him.。
"This is how people can be saved,。
"through faith in Jesus."。
But that brings us back to the question, doesn't it?。
Like how can people put their faith in Jesus,。
when they've never heard about Jesus?。
And that's the exact question that Paul gets to。
in Romans 10.。
So if you've got your Bible, just keep turning over there.。
Romans chapter 10, verse 13,。
"Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.。
"How then can they call on the one。
"they've not believed in?。
"And how can they believe in the one。
"of whom they've not heard?。
"And how can they hear without someone preaching to them?。
"And how can anyone preach unless they're sent?。
"As it's written, how beautiful are the feet。
"of those who bring good news."。
The picture here is crystal clear.。
People can't put their faith in Jesus。
if they don't hear about Jesus.。
And if they can't put their faith in Jesus,。
because they've not heard about Jesus,。
then they can't be saved from their sin.。
That's why when you get down to verse 17,。
you can read it, I don't have it up here,。
but faith comes by hearing,。
and hearing through the word of Jesus.。
So get the picture.。
Three billion people。
that can't go to heaven。
if they don't hear about the one who makes heaven possible.。
And it's symbol logic.。
They won't hear unless somebody tells them.。
Which leads to the last thing about them,。
and it's where you and I come in.。
Jesus has left us in this world。
to get the gospel to them.。
Jesus has left you and me in this world。
to do whatever he calls us to do,。
no matter what it costs, to get the gospel to them.。
Right before Jesus went to heaven,。
what did he tell his followers to do?。
One thing, make disciples, where?。
All the nations.。
Not just in one place.。
It's not an option for my people.。
We don't focus just on one place.。
We're going all the places.。
All the peoples, nations, ethnic groups of the world.。
You'll receive my power when my Holy Spirit comes upon you,。
so you'll be my witnesses to the ends of the earth,。
to all the people.。
Let me show you this in what we just read in Romans 10.。
Look at the verbs in this passage in reverse,。
and as you do, you'll see God's plan。
for the gospel go into the red.。
Watch this, so sent.。
So it all starts with Jesus sending his followers,。
and when he sends them to go out,。
what do they go out to do?。
To preach.。
That doesn't mean stand on a stage。
in front of a bunch of people.。
That means just tell somebody, right?。
Speak about the good news of God's love in Jesus.。
Proclaim it.。
So Jesus sends his followers, his followers preach,。
and when they preach, people will hear.。
Makes sense, unless we're preaching to a wall.。
All right, share, somebody will hear,。
and when they hear, what will happen?。
They'll believe.。
Now, we know not everybody who hears believes.。
Obviously, we know that.。
At the same time, think about this.。
Revelation chapter seven, verse nine and 10 says,。
"One day is coming when a multitude。
"that no one could count from every nation,。
"every tribe, every people, and every language。
"is gonna gather around the throne。
"of our God singing his praises."。
You know what that means?。
You can go to any people group in the red,。
any nation, any language in the red,。
you can share this good news.。
You know somebody's coming out.。
Somebody's gonna be there, it's guaranteed.。
So people will hear, and somebody's gonna believe,。
and when they believe, they will call,。
and when they call on the name of the Lord,。
they will be what?。
Saved.。
So there's the plan.。
God's designed for the gospel to get to the red,。
so let's look at the plan and just ask the question,。
where is the only place this plan can break down?。
Well, let's start from where we left off.。
Everyone who calls the name of the Lord will be saved,。
so we know that.。
Will those who believe call on his name?。
Yes.。
Will those who hear believe?。
Again, like we said, not everybody,。
but some will, guaranteed.。
Will those who, followers of Jesus,。
who are sent proclaim the gospel?。
Will they hear?。
Yeah, that'll happen as long as we're not preaching。
to a wall.。
The only place where this potentially breaks down。
is if those who are sent by Jesus refuse to go。
and proclaim this good news.。
That's the only potential breakdown.。
And we'll ask the question,。
is Jesus still sending his followers?。
Has he taken a generation off?。
Has he said, you know, I'm gonna find another way.。
People say to me, well, surely God has other ways.。
Like he works in dreams and visions。
and all kinds of different places in the world.。
And I could tell you all kinds of stories。
about dreams and visions.。
We see those in the Bible.。
You won't find a one verse in the Bible。
where the gospel is going forward。
apart from a human instrument proclaiming it.。
I got all kinds of stories about dreams and visions。
where God is also providing people.。
God could write Romans in the sky tonight。
and take care of this.。
Everybody be reached just like that.。
But he's chosen not to do that.。
Instead he's chosen in his grace to invite you and me。
to join with him in doing this。
and making the greatest news in the world。
known all over the world.。
And the only potential breakdown。
is when followers of Jesus say,。
no, we're just gonna live our lives。
in places where the gospel has gone.。
And we're gonna turn a blind eye and a deaf ear to them.。
We're basically gonna create a whole culture of Christianity。
cultural, comfortable, casual Christianity。
that revolves around us and ignores them.。
And that's how we're gonna live our lives.。
Maybe we'll throw pennies to them.。
Maybe a few people will go and do something about that.。
And tonight I'm inviting you to change that.。
I'm inviting you to refuse to settle。
for a casual, comfortable, cultural Christianity。
that turns a blind eye and deaf ear。
to 3.2 billion people on their way to hell。
who need to hear the greatest news in the world。
about how life forever in heaven is possible with Jesus.。
You say, well, what can I do to change that?。
I'm only one person.。
Well, of course you are.。
We all are.。
God made us that way.。
But so are they.。
I know I've mentioned 3 billion。
over and over and over again.。
But these are individual people, see them.。
We're talking about Hajira in Afghanistan.。
Her people groups Pashtoon,。
largest people group in Afghanistan.。
She and her close knit tribe live by a code。
of protecting each other's honor。
and showing generous hospitality.。
She works hard for her family day in and day out。
in a barren mountainous region where they live。
that is totally unreached by the gospel.。
We're talking about Tahil in Somalia.。
Lives in the capital Mogadishu.。
Port city just north of the equator on the Indian Ocean.。
Most of the men he knows have left Somalia.。
He's stayed in the middle of this impoverished country,。
convinced this is the best way he can care for his parents。
and his wife and his children.。
We're talking about Amir and Aliyah in Yemen.。
Older brother, younger sister.。
Picture childlike zeal for life,。
even though they live in one of the largest。
humanitarian crises in the world right now.。
Surrounded by war and conflict, they were born into it.。
They have parents who are struggling every day。
to find food for them.。
And here tonight, in a way maybe you didn't see coming,。
what Jesus is saying about each of them.。
'Cause they all, Hajira, Tahil, Amir, and Aliyah,。
they all have knowledge of God.。
They have all rejected God.。
They're all guilty of sin.。
They all stand condemned before God in their sin.。
Yet God loves all of them so much.。
God loves Hajira and loves her.。
God loves Tahil.。
God loves Amir.。
God loves Aliyah so much that he sent his son,。
Jesus God, in the flesh to give his life。
so they could have eternal life with him.。
But they can't experience eternal life。
if nobody tells them about Jesus.。
And Jesus is saying to a room full and other gatherings。
full of young adults who have this good news,。
I've left you here for a reason.。
And it's not to waste your life coasting out。
a comfortable Christian spin on the American dream.。
You were created for so much more than this.。
You've been put in a time and a place。
where there are more opportunities。
to get the greatest news in the world。
to people in the world than ever before.。
So don't spend your life on stuff that won't last.。
I know it's like college football season.。
We get so consumed with superficial battles.。
They're not real battles.。
They don't matter.。
Open your eyes and see what's worthy of your affections.。
Three billion Hagiras and Tahils and Amirs and Alias。
are on a road right now that leads to hell.。
Nobody's ever told them how they can go to heaven.。
And some of us are still thinking,。
how can that be just of God?。
And isn't it just like us in our sinfulness。
to point the finger at the supposed injustice of God。
in our minds while we excuse ourselves。
from obeying the command of God,。
clear command of God in our lives?。
I see it.。
Do you want justice?。
Then give your life.。
Do whatever it costs you to do。
to alleviate eternal suffering, eternal poverty,。
eternal slavery to sin for billions of people.。
That's the invitation.。
No matter who you are, regardless of your age,。
your giftings, your wiring,。
no matter what you bring to the table。
to put a stake in the ground tonight。
and say, God, I will do whatever you call me to do,。
no matter what it costs,。
to get the gospel to people who have never heard it.。
So will you bow your heads with me?。
(gentle music)。
I invite you to bow your heads and close your eyes.。
I really wanna challenge you。
to keep your eyes closed during this time.。
Like this invitation is not about anybody else。
but you and God.。
It's not about seeing what anybody else does.。
It's sure not about letting the way they respond。
affect the way you respond.。
Like as best as I can,。
I just wanna help you look to God alone right now.。
In this room and all those other gatherings.。
Just see the one who's speaking to your heart,。
tune everyone else out.。
And in just a minute, I'm gonna ask you to stand。
if you would say,。
God, I will do whatever you call me to do,。
no matter what it costs,。
to get the gospel to people who have never heard it.。
And really, I only wanna encourage you to stand。
if you're willing to put a stake in the ground tonight。
and say that before God.。
And some of you, for a host of reasons,。
are not at a point where you're ready to say that.。
Please don't treat this lightly.。
At the same time, others of you。
may have said something like this in the past.。
I want you to feel free to stand and say in a fresh way,。
that stake's still in the ground in my life.。
Here I am, God, whatever you call me to do.。
Obviously, I'm not saying you gotta have it figured out.。
What's gonna flow from this?。
That's the point.。
It's no strings attached.。
Whatever flows from this.。
That you alone know what's going on in your heart,。
your life right now.。
Just pray and God will awaken a church。
to say we're gonna do whatever God calls us to do。
to get the gospel to people who've never heard it.。
And tonight is an opportunity。
for some of you to join in that.。
So God, I pray.。
I pray that you would help every person。
in this gathering to respond with honest authenticity。
and humble courage in this moment.。
Whether that means standing or sitting.。
So right now, before God, just you and God.。
If you would say, God, I will do whatever you call me to do,。
no matter what it costs, to get the gospel。
to people who've never heard it.。
Would you just quietly stand up where you are?。
Just you before God.。
(gentle music)。
Oh God,。
before you, I pray that you would be pleased。
and glorified。
and surrender if brothers and sisters。
all across this gathering and trust in different places.。
God, I pray for them.。
I pray that you would give them deeper。
and deeper and deeper knowledge of understanding。
of your great glory and their great need。
for your grace in their lives。
and the nation's great need for your grace in their lives.。
God, that you would grip them with an urgency。
that says, I got a mist, I got a few years here。
on this earth to live for the glory of my God.。
I wanna make this mist count.。
It's like a vapor here one second, gone the next.。
God, I pray that you would lead, guide,。
direct their steps in the days ahead。
to however, wherever they can most faithfully make disciples。
who make disciples of the nations.。
Whether that's staying in Dallas the rest of their lives,。
according to the leadership of your spirit, if that's so,。
praying and giving and going as they have opportunity。
and being a part of getting behind work and the red,。
living, God, I pray that you would deliver them,。
give them holy discontentment with casual,。
comfortable, cultural Christianity.。
May they not settle for it.。
May they leave it behind in any way。
and the battle against it, may they live。
in all that obedience to you using time,。
treasure, talents for your glory among the nations.。
God, I pray that trust, you're gonna send some of them out。
to move to places in the red.。
You're gonna open doors for nurses and doctors。
and engineers and teachers and lawyers and business leaders。
and all kinds of people to go in all kinds of different ways。
and God, I pray, we pray tonight。
that there would be people in the red。
who hear the gospel for the first time。
from lips in this room, from feet,。
bringing the good news to them.。
God, we ask that boldly before you,。
would you cause unreached people to be reached。
because of what you are doing by your spirit。
in this place tonight?。
God, I pray that you would give them increasing faith.。
If we can trust you to save us。
for the next 10 trillion years,。
we say we can trust you to lead us on this earth。
and not be afraid of what you might lead us to do.。
And God, I pray, I pray that over those who are sitting。
for any number of reasons, God, I pray for anyone。
who's yet to put their faith in Jesus.。
God, I pray that they would feel right now。
your love for them, that you would draw them。
to your love for them in Jesus.。
You'd grant them a heart of humility to trust in you.。
God, others who are for any number of reasons,。
holding onto this, concerned about that,。
just not ready to say this, God, I pray,。
I do pray that you would draw them into faith。
with every facet of their lives in you.。
An awareness of the beauty of this gospel,。
not just for them, but for the nations.。
And that you would just work in their heart,。
however is best to draw them to yourself。
and into your mission in the days to come.。
God, we praise you that we are among those。
who have been reached by the gospel.。
Why were we not born in the red, living in the red?。
We had nothing to do with where we were born.。
This is only your mercy that we're in this room,。
in this gathering, right?。
We praise you for your mercy,。
and we pray that your grace toward us。
would be the great effect for your glory through us。
among the nations.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
Can I invite everybody to stand?。
We're gonna sing a song of praise,。
honor and glory.。
Our God has invited us into this mission.。
Mission, at the same time I do,。
I think we have something to put on the screen。
that has a QR code, maybe.。
There it is.。
I would just say, for those of you in particular who stood,。
if there's, yeah, if you click on this QR code,。
it's just a simple page that says,。
all right, you stand, what's step number one?。
And what does that look like from here?。
And what does tomorrow look like?。
What does tonight look like?。
And so if you want to click on that QR code,。
just a way to kind of help put next steps to that.。
And I know there's all kinds of steps, Lord willing,。
that you can take in local church, this local church,。
or any local church that you're a part of.。
So let's praise the God who's worthy,。
not just of our glory, but worthy of the glory of all。
the nations of the earth.。
♪ Oh Lord ♪。
