And I thought about you guys tonight,。
and the verse where we're headed,。
and just all of those songs that we just sang,。
the way that we worship.。
See, you're here tonight, and I want you to know。
with the rest of your life, you're gonna build some things.。
You really are, you're gonna build some things.。
You're gonna build a career, okay?。
You may build a house one day.。
You're gonna build relationships, alright?。
You're gonna build an image of yourself,。
like when you think of you, you identify yourself。
with some things, maybe I'm the cool guy, the surfer guy,。
maybe I'm the trendy girl, or maybe I'm the smart girl,。
or the engineer, or whatever it is。
that you kind of identify yourself with.。
Maybe I'm the skater, right?。
And the reality of it is, is what the Lord。
didn't build in and through you, it's not gonna last.。
When Christmas comes, it's thrown out.。
You get that?。
Like when Jesus comes back,。
those things that God didn't do in and through you,。
the things that you held onto,。
the things that you didn't let go of,。
the things that you tried to control,。
the things that were a lot of you and not a lot of him,。
that's not going to last.。
It's vanity, it's meaningless, the scriptures say.。
And so I fear for us that we're gonna get up there。
and this conversation is gonna look like this.。
We're gonna stand there with God。
and we're gonna be in heaven, praise God,。
and by his grace, and we're standing there with him,。
and I don't know if this will happen this way,。
but we'll be like, hey God, remember when we,。
and he's like, no, that wasn't we, that was you.。
No, remember when we did that thing and it was good thing,。
remember when we served the poor,。
remember when I went to that job,。
remember when we did that,。
he's like, no, that wasn't, that wasn't,。
I was actually telling you to do something else,。
you weren't listening.。
No, I was actually calling you to some other thing,。
but you weren't tracking with me.。
No, I think you had good intentions,。
yeah, you got all fired up, you read a verse,。
you heard a sermon, but you weren't listening to me.。
That was about you, let's be honest,。
that was about you, here you are, you're here,。
well done, good and faithful servant,。
but that wasn't, that wasn't me, that was you.。
And so tonight I just thought about this one verse,。
it's not even a whole verse, it's really just a half a verse,。
it's Psalm 127, one, and when I got with our team,。
our young adult team, and we thought about the vision。
of the poor and what God would have for us,。
we thought about this verse, which is,。
it's a real simple idea, it says,。
unless the Lord builds the house,。
its builders labor in vain.。
And so I wanted to spend a short time with you,。
and then we're gonna be back to worship,。
I wanna spend a short time with you tonight。
just telling you about what is to come in 2013,。
because the way that we take that month off,。
and I know some people, that frustrates some people,。
but what we're doing there is we're dreaming。
and fasting and praying and asking God。
what he desires for us for the next year。
as we look at this city, so I'm just gonna give you。
three things, because the way my mind works,。
I kinda remember things in threes,。
and so it's three things that we have heard,。
our team has heard from the Lord,。
as we've asked him, hey, as you build this house,。
what do you want us to be about?。
And the first one is simply this, transformational truth.。
You come to this place every Tuesday, seven o'clock,。
and what you're going to hear, I hope,。
is us teaching you the truth from the scriptures,。
so that you don't just come and be entertained。
or hear a speaker or leave and get some tips。
and tricks for life, but that you would hear。
the word of God, that the spirit of God。
would make real to you, and that he would awaken your heart,。
and that as you leave this place,。
that you would live out those truths,。
and that this wouldn't be the only place。
of your Bible intake, but we wouldn't just teach you。
the Bible, but we would teach you how to learn。
from the scriptures, even on your own.。
And so you will never come here and get some,。
you know, feel good, just hey, here's how to do。
life message, you're gonna come here。
and get teaching from the scriptures。
that are relevant to 20 and 30 somethings。
as they move and live in Dallas, Texas.。
And what's happened historically, as we've looked backwards,。
is as we have read from the scriptures,。
and the Holy Spirit has changed lives.。
You have to understand that to be a follower。
of Jesus means to change.。
So I don't care where you're at, right?。
I don't care where you're at, I don't care。
what you're struggling with, pornography,。
or materialism, or you killed somebody in the parking lot,。
or maybe you made up a fake girlfriend on Twitter,。
or you said you doped, or you didn't dope,。
or whatever, and won seven tour de France,。
I don't care what you did, okay?。
I don't care who you are, right?。
I don't care, right?。
The only thing that I care about is we don't stay there.。
Is that the Spirit of God would continue to conform us。
to the image and the character of Christ。
as we look at these scriptures,。
and His Spirit informs your heart,。
unless the Lord builds the house.。
It's builder's labor in vain.。
And so that's what we're about here,。
transformational truth.。
So just to give you a heads up of where we're headed,。
we're gonna teach through two books this year,。
both Galatians and the New Testament,。
one of Paul's letters to the Church of Galatia,。
and Ecclesiastes of the Old Testament.。
We're gonna go through some topical series。
on worry, anxiety, doubt, and depression.。
Courage, we're gonna talk about courage,。
evangelism, living on mission.。
The spiritual disciplines,。
hey, how can I really learn to read my Bible?。
How do I learn to apply this book to my life?。
What does it look like to have a healthy prayer life?。
And those sorts of things.。
And we're gonna kick off with a dating series。
called Cupid, Dating Myths.。
Why?。
Because I think that, frankly, one reason,。
the vast majority of the people in the room are single.。
Another reason is a lot of folks in the room。
wanna be married, but even if you don't,。
we're gonna talk about how I think。
this is the single most effective way。
for you to disqualify your ministry.。
We see a lot of people here are dating,。
but not a lot of people here are dating。
in a way that honors God.。
And so what does it mean to look towards。
the creator of the heavens and the earth。
and say, hey, how do I live my life。
most effectively for you?。
And so we're gonna start here,。
and I know there's some girls here like,。
hey, man, I'd love to apply that to my life,。
if only I'd get asked out, you know?。
And so I'm gonna tell the guys to ask you out.。
Come, just come back for that, okay?。
So we're gonna talk through that.。
And we're gonna talk about those problems。
that we have in the ministry.。
Unless the Lord builds the house,。
it's builder's labor in vain.。
And so this is what this is about, this change.。
Do you ever feel like you're looking at your life,。
and it's kind of like that gingerbread house,。
when you start, when you're like thinking,。
okay, I've gotta pray more, I resolve,。
2013, I'm gonna pray more.。
And you start praying more, and then all of a sudden,。
the Bible study thing kind of falls off.。
You're like, oh, no, I'm gonna study the Bible more.。
You know, and then you start studying the Bible more,。
and then all of a sudden, that sin struggle。
rears its ugly head.。
You're like, okay, I'm gonna do away with that now.。
2013 is my year, I'm gonna never look at that,。
or go there, or be that again.。
And then all of a sudden, this other thing,。
you know, like your community group just becomes a problem.。
Or something else kind of rears its head.。
Or maybe you're going through life,。
and you're looking at your career,。
and your relationships, and your image,。
and all of these things that make you you,。
and you kind of feel like a house of cards.。
That any given moment, it's about to all come crashing down.。
What does it really mean practically。
to stop and to say, hey, God, unless you build this house,。
I'm laboring in vain.。
God, take your word and instruct my heart,。
and help me to be a woman or a man of God,。
living a life that honors you,。
so that in that great and wonderful day,。
you would say, well done, good and faithful servant.。
The second thing we wanna be about。
is allowing you the opportunity。
to connect to Christ followers.。
So don't labor in vain, but also don't labor alone.。
The Christian life, the life,。
one life following Jesus was never meant to be done alone.。
And so this is why people get in fraternities,。
and sororities, and clubs, and even find niches at work.。
We wanna help you find a group of folks。
who are serious about following Jesus.。
We wanna help you with that.。
We wanna hand it to you as much as we can.。
And look around, it's a big place, I get it.。
Okay, it can be intimidating.。
It can't be intimidating, though.。
The bigger we get, the smaller we must become.。
I was at a coffee shop this weekend,。
and a friend of mine, Greg, and I were there,。
and Greg engaged with the barista and just said,。
hey, you have a church home?。
And she said, yeah, I like to think I do.。
And so we were talking, I just said,。
hey, you ever heard of Watermark?。
And she goes, yeah, the church?。
Yeah, and she goes, oh yeah,。
I've been to the young adults thing there.。
I was like, oh, that thing, man.。
(congregation laughing)。
I was like, oh, that thing, it's a meat market.。
And she goes, no, it wasn't that.。
I was like, yes, praise God.。
And she goes, but it was intense.。
Oh yeah, that hair tick up front, it is intense.。
No, I said, what do you mean by intense?。
She said, well, there was just a lot of people there.。
See, I didn't know there were that many people ever。
at my age that gathered to talk about Jesus.。
And it just hit me, I was like,。
it's a problem if people come in,。
and it feels big and it feels lonely.。
And so we are really going to put forth effort this year。
to provide a place for you to connect deeply。
with those who follow Jesus, but I want you to know,。
and this is really important that you know this, okay,。
not everyone here is following Christ.。
And so just because they've memorized some scripture。
and they're carrying around a Bible。
and maybe they graduated from seminary,。
it doesn't mean they know Jesus, okay?。
So don't just say, okay, well, they're safe。
because I met 'em at the porch.。
Be aware of that, okay?。
Kind of check a track record or inspect the reputation,。
if you will, take some time.。
And so that's just kind of a public servant announcement.。
But I am, public service rather, announcement.。
I am passionate about you.。
I am passionate about you finding those folks。
who are gonna be bridesmaids at your wedding,。
groomsmen at your wedding, folks whose children。
will play with your children growing up,。
folks who you will bury, or at your funeral。
they will talk about your life.。
But for now, I am passionate about you finding people。
that you can step into this amazing adventure。
that is following Jesus with,。
so that you don't have to do it alone.。
Because you'll feel alone in Dallas.。
I'll tell you, there's a lot of people following Dallas,。
not Jesus, right?。
There's a lot of people here tonight。
following Dallas, not Jesus.。
And so we want to help you find some folks。
who follow Jesus so that you can connect deeply with them.。
And so one way that we're going to do that。
is just January 27th, that's this Sunday, is a group link.。
And so if this is your home church, come to group,。
simple as this, I'm gonna make this real easy on you.。
If this is your home church and you don't have。
a community group, come Sunday at 2 p.m.。
and we're gonna help you find a community group.。
Okay, if this is not your church home,。
the vast majority, in fact, probably half of you or more,。
this is not your church home, so be free.。
Like, you're welcome here.。
We want to be a young adult ministry that serves the city.。
In fact, I spent a lot of my time over break。
meeting with other senior pastors。
and young adult pastors in this area。
and just talking about what could be if we yoked arms.。
And I know a lot of them actually send their folks here.。
And so we're glad you're here, welcome.。
What we want to do with you is we want to help you,。
help equip you to find that community at your home church。
so that you can come here together, be blessed together here。
but at the same time return there。
and continue to make a difference.。
And so we exist to serve you as well.。
But if you're here, if this is your church home,。
then there's no excuse for you.。
We're really going the extra mile to help you connect.。
And there'll be the community rooms will continue。
after group link is over.。
And so I'm not talking about fake relationships,。
I'm talking about real relationships.。
If you want fake relationships,。
go to desperateforfriends.com or something.。
But we're talking about real relationships of people。
who are following Jesus that you can lock arms with。
and change this city and change this world.。
And so speaking of changes in this city and this world,。
the last thing that we want to be with about。
is sending and serving.。
Sending you to serve others, okay.。
We want to provide a place so that you can come。
but then we want to provide opportunities for you to go.。
And so we want to be about serving this city。
that is called Dallas and changing the world.。
We did a series last year just talking about。
changing the world and some people caught that vision.。
And so every year we go to Haiti and we go to Africa。
but I want you to know we're gonna go。
wherever there is need, okay.。
If a hurricane hits the coast, God forbid,。
of New Orleans tonight, right,。
then soon we will be there rebuilding that city.。
Wherever there is need in this country,。
wherever there is need in this world,。
we will go there stewarding the gospel,。
the good news of Jesus Christ,。
his death and resurrection which saves people,。
not their lives, not gives them something to eat simply。
but allows them a place to live for eternity.。
But we will also give them something to eat,。
we will also give them water to drink,。
we will also give them clothes to wear.。
That's what we're about.。
And so we're gonna do that, okay.。
We're gonna do that this year.。
We're gonna continue to do that.。
God's going to continue to do that through us.。
We can't do it alone, we don't wanna do it without him.。
We're going to be about changing this world.。
You guys remember me talking about,。
if you were here, if you're a guest tonight,。
you may not know this story but there was a guy,。
his name was Simon, he lived in Sweden, okay.。
He stole some software, some pirated software。
which had a watermark on it.。
Simon had never in his life heard the gospel。
and this is gonna rock your world。
'cause we live in Dallas now but Sweden。
is one of the most atheist countries in the world.。
If not the most atheist country in the world.。
Simon had no idea who Jesus was, okay.。
He's 20 something years old and he's got this。
pirated software which he stole that has a watermark on it.。
So he Googles how to get the watermark off this software.。
He finds a series on YouTube called Boy Meets Girl.。
It was the porch, he watched it.。
He was intrigued because this tall, goofy guy。
was telling him that he shouldn't be having sex。
if he's single, all right.。
And he's like, who in the world,。
why would anybody listen to this idiot。
who's telling people that they shouldn't enjoy。
the pleasure of sex?。
This is crazy but he was intrigued。
and so he caught some other messages, right.。
Then I'm sitting in my office,。
one afternoon my phone rings and it's Simon from Sweden.。
So I tell Simon about Jesus 'cause he said,。
man, there's something different about those people.。
I tell him about Jesus, he prays to receive Christ。
right there on the phone.。
He gets plugged into a church there in Sweden。
and maybe you've heard that, yeah, it's worth it.。
He gets plugged into a church there.。
(congregation applauds)。
Check this out, he gets plugged into a church there。
and then he tells them about this place。
and so now their young adult ministry in Sweden。
podcasts the porch, that's what they do.。
That's what they do when they gather.。
But guess what, Simon's not there today.。
This happened in 2012, guys.。
Simon's not there today, why?。
He's a missionary in the Philippines.。
You tracking with me?。
The dude had never heard about Jesus。
and now he's like, wait a minute,。
there's some people in the Philippines。
who don't know about Jesus.。
I gotta go tell them about Jesus now.。
He is now a missionary, 365 days a year。
in the Philippines, this is God,。
unless he builds the house.。
Those who build it, labor in vain.。
Okay, he's doing stuff.。
And here's the deal, we wanna be missionaries in Dallas.。
I've heard it said you either are a missionary。
or you need one, okay?。
You either are a missionary or you need one.。
And so I want you to be a missionary tonight。
and tomorrow in the morning。
and when you show up to work, you're a missionary.。
And there's some people that are getting this.。
We want to serve this city so that when the mayor has need,。
he or she calls the porch, okay?。
That we would be first responders in serving the city.。
Jesus says in Matthew five that we're light of the world.。
That's who we are and so let me just show you some pictures.。
This is where we are, strategically placed in this city,。
right, I think we have some images.。
There we are, that's us, we're right there.。
We are by one of the single most busiest intersections。
in the entire country of the United States of America,。
strategically placed right here.。
And if you zoom out now, this is our city.。
And that A right there, that's where we're at.。
And so we want to impact those areas around us, okay?。
Those are our areas of focus。
and so as you look at that map,。
if your mission is Addison, there you go, you're right there.。
If your mission is Uptown, you're there.。
The M Streets, you're there.。
University Park, you're there.。
Maybe you live around White Rock。
and Lakewood or Lake Highlands.。
There's your mission, okay?。
That's where you will be a missionary.。
Maybe you work downtown, that's your mission.。
Maybe you're here from Garland or Plano or Richardson.。
Welcome, we're gonna send you.。
If you don't go to Africa or Haiti with us。
or somewhere else, we're gonna resource you。
to impact your neighborhoods and your communities。
because man, if you're building something,。
if you're just building a beautiful U,。
you're just building a big old house,。
it's gonna crumble one day.。
It's not gonna matter one day.。
We always say this, I always ask it,。
I think it's relevant, you know,。
not many people here know their great-great-grandfather's。
name, he was alive 50 years ago.。
That means 50 years from now, no one's driving。
down the street saying thank you,。
oh great-great-grandfather, great-great-grandmother.。
Insert your name.。
You are but a memory and the only thing that will last。
is the impact that you made for the kingdom.。
Did you guys know, did you know that 34 of your peers。
went out into the city and did a 48 hour。
mission trip this weekend?。
It was incredible.。
34 of your peers went out and just shared。
the gospel in Dallas.。
The way that this happened is we were in Haiti。
and we were sharing the gospel there in Haiti。
and you have to speak to an interpreter。
and it's a frustrating process 'cause you say something。
and the interpreter says something。
and the interpreter's a believer, a Christ follower,。
and so you just kinda get to this point。
where you're like hey, just tell them.。
Just tell them about Jesus, like let's not do this,。
I say it, you say it, just tell 'em, just tell 'em.。
And then we said that at night,。
we were kinda venting that frustration。
and we said well wait a minute, we don't do that.。
I mean this guy's walking through his village.。
When's the last time we walked through our village。
and said hey, can I tell you about Jesus?。
Hey, what about you, can I tell you about Jesus?。
What about you, can I tell you about Jesus?。
And so one of the guys there says hey, I'm gonna do it。
and I'm gonna take some people with me.。
So he came back, Ryan Wall came back here。
and he put together a team and these folks,。
our porch volunteers, they went into the city,。
they stayed in uptown and they walked around uptown。
and downtown Dallas just sharing the gospel.。
It was incredible, the first person they talked to。
in the parking lot trusted Christ.。
And so these are some of the folks that they shared with.。
They engaged with a Hindu, a Muslim, an atheist, a Jew,。
a Buddhist, de-churched, unchurched, dead-churched,。
watermark attenders, porch attenders, meth addicts,。
a girl considering an abortion and one of the girls。
that was there that was with us had had an abortion,。
got to sit with her and so now she's reconsidering。
that decision, a guy who literally had just been released。
from prison that day.。
One team didn't engage all weekend with a single person。
in Dallas, Texas who called themselves a Christian.。
That's our city and that's why we wanna change it.。
I'll read this, one girl just wrote this,。
one of our leaders wrote this when she got back.。
"It came to reality Sunday evening。
"that these truly are the days.。
"There is a specific reason I have the job,。
"the community, the serving opportunities around me.。
"I realized I'm in my prime and it's a short window。
"where I will have the energy and time to do it all。
"and right now I wanna do it all.。
"I wanna go overseas as often as I can.。
"I wanna study the scriptures as deeply as I can.。
"I wanna learn and grow as much as I can。
"and I wanna pour out as much as I can.。
"All weekend and throughout the young adult's world,。
"I see so many people distracted and individuals searching。
"for something to fill themselves.。
"I see girls living for a man and doing everything they can。
"to fill that desire.。
"I see people searching for the next thing to hold onto。
"or the next thing they think will make them happy,。
"yet they are never satisfied and it's heartbreaking.。
"I sat back this weekend and realized I want my life。
"to be different from the world。
"and I continually need to remind myself。
"that this earth is not my home.。
"I don't want to get caught in the lies。
"and distractions all around me.。
"For me personally, I'm seeing even more。
"that my singleness and the season of life I'm in。
"is truly a gift from God.。
"It's an opportunity to go, serve, and learn.。
"I would be wasting my days and time on earth。
"if I did not take advantage。
"of the opportunities around me.。
"I'm still only a few hours removed from this weekend。
"and there are a number of things。
"the Lord needs to do in me, but all in all,。
"I want this year to be a time where I do it all,。
"not for me, but for Him.。
"For unless the Lord builds the house,。
"it's builder's labor in vain."。
And so he's building the house.。
We need only to surrender and to look His way。
and to say, "God, what would you have me do?。
"What is faithfulness for me?。
"I don't want to manage my life.。
"I don't want to balance my career and my relationship。
"and my image and my reputation.。
"I give it all to you.。
"Father, use it for your glory."。
So here at the porch, we're gonna instruct you。
to hear through His word, the building up the temple,。
His temple in you.。
We're gonna show you others in your life stage。
who you can connect with, who also desire Him.。
And we're gonna give you opportunities to serve this city。
and change this world through your faithfulness.。
That's Him working through your faithfulness.。
Over the break, as we got together and prayed,。
one thing that we did, we went to this house,。
and it was a new house, just a friend of ours had built.。
It's really a beautiful home.。
We all kind of had house envy at the end of the time.。
I mean, just this incredible stone house。
with hand-scraped hardwoods and big cedar posts。
and just an incredible structure,。
really, really nice home.。
And the reality of it is, is it's not gonna last.。
Jesus said that, not one of these stones will stand upright.。
And it took two years to build this home,。
and I just reflected with the team.。
I was like, you know, one day, this home,。
it was just a slab.。
And nobody's really looking at the slab.。
The guy shows up to the construction site,。
and all that's there is a big old sheet of concrete,。
and he's not standing there, you know, thinking,。
oh, hey, look at this amazing, beautiful concrete.。
I mean, there is somebody, right, who's doing that,。
the person who built the slab, right?。
He's like, it's a beautiful slab.。
But the reality of it is,。
is the structure hasn't been built yet.。
And I think the temptation for us today。
is to look around and say, oh, look at what we got.。
Look at what we've built.。
Look at what I built with my hands.。
Even look at this ministry.。
That's my temptation.。
Look at the ministry, right?。
Look how it's grown.。
Look at the incredible things that we've done.。
No, man.。
One, he's done it.。
There's none of us that good.。
It's him that's done it.。
And I think, I think we're standing on the slab.。
I think today, as you look around,。
we're standing on the sheet of concrete.。
And God's saying, hey, we just wait.。
The best is yet to come.。
I'm gonna build something beautiful through you,。
and we're gonna change this city.。
34 of your peers handed God their lives this weekend.。
I wanna invite the band to come back up.。
And we're gonna go back to worshiping him.。
But I wanna say this.。
34 of your peers, right,。
they handed God their lives this weekend.。
Can you imagine if 3,400 of us did that?。
3,400 of us marching through uptown,。
arms locked, saying, hey, let's change this place。
for the cause of Christ.。
Because one day, very, very soon,。
we're gonna be dead.。
In our car, in our house,。
in those shallow relationships,。
in our career, in our image, in our reputation.。
It's vanity.。
One day, very soon, it's not gonna matter.。
All that's gonna matter is how we built his kingdom,。
how we shared his truth.。
(silence)。
(silence)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
