[MUSIC PLAYING]。
All right.。
A little false start there.。
Sorry about that.。
Welcome to the ports, everybody.。
Glad you guys are here tonight.。
Yes, thank you.。
I want to welcome everybody watching online at all the。
PortsLive locations.。
My name's Adam Tarnow.。
I'm excited to be with you guys today as we continue on。
in this roaring '20s sermon series.。
And so I want to start off with a little story.。
A little over a month ago, my wife and I, we celebrated our。
16th wedding anniversary.。
Thank you very much.。
Yeah.。
[APPLAUSE]。
16 years in a row, we have been married.。
Consecutive years.。
It has been awesome.。
Got a little picture of what we look like on our wedding day.。
Always get different reactions to that.。
So I think we got a predominantly female crowd。
here today, because you guys awed at that.。
Usually if it's guys, they just laugh.。
I don't know what that pose is that we are in right there.。
We don't hold hands that way.。
I've never once in 16 years have we gotten in a pose like。
that, but anyway.。
So a picture can tell 1,000 words, but there is something。
that you cannot tell from that picture.。
And what you cannot tell from that picture is this.。
Is at that moment on the day we said I do, my wife and I,。
Jackie and I, we were in the middle of a financial crisis.。
At that moment when that picture was taken, our net。
worth, our combined net worth now as a married。
couple was this.。
It was a negative $120,000.。
And yet we were still smiling, right?。
Still smiling and still excited to be married.。
Now, just to be clear, it wasn't a surprise to us that。
that was what our net worth was.。
We both knew about this.。
Now 13 months earlier when I met her, I would have been。
surprised if you would have told me that that's what our。
financial situation was going to be if we。
ended up getting married.。
And so 13 months prior, I had just moved here to Dallas to。
go to seminary to study God's word so that I could maybe go。
on staff at a church or be in full-time ministry and had。
gotten plugged in here at Watermark and started to go to。
church here and met Jackie.。
And we started going out.。
And I knew a couple of things about her early on in dating.。
And you just know a few financial things.。
And you just kind of know what somebody's job is.。
And so I knew that Jackie's job was this.。
I knew that she was an attorney.。
And I don't know what you learned growing up about。
attorneys, but I watched a lot of television shows and movies。
and read some novels, watched TV shows like Suits about all。
these high-powered attorneys.。
And I had just developed this expectation in my mind that。
all attorneys made a tremendous amount of money,。
and their financial situation was they。
were really well off.。
Well, I'm in seminary, and I don't know what my financial。
future is going to be.。
And I'm looking at this relationship, and I'm kind of。
putting two and two together as I'm studying God's word.。
And I'm reading things like Psalm 37, 4 that said, "Delight。
yourself in the Lord, and he gives you the。
desires of your heart."。
And I'm like, Lord, I did not know that I desired a sugar。
mama right now.。
But this makes sense to me.。
I mean, this is what a good God would do.。
You uproot your life, and you go, and you move halfway。
across the country.。
And you start to give your life to you.。
And then you bless me with a beautiful attorney wife.。
I like the way this is going.。
And so the relationship started--。
I never said any of that to her.。
This is just stuff that I'm thinking.。
And so the relationship progresses, and we start to。
realize, OK, this is probably going to move towards marriage.。
And so we've realized we need to have this conversation.。
We need to share some of our financial。
details with one another.。
And so I will never forget that night.。
We met over at her duplex.。
She was sharing a duplex with a roommate.。
We met at her duplex.。
I remember the green couch we were sitting on.。
I remember where I was sitting.。
I remember where she was sitting.。
And I was like, I am pumped for this conversation.。
And I said, I'll go first.。
I'll go first.。
Here's the thing.。
I got about $20,000 in student loan debt.。
I've got a car with over 100,000 miles,。
but it's paid for.。
I've got a couple thousand dollars in the bank.。
I tutor accounting part time, because that was what I did。
before I went to seminary.。
I tutor accounting a part time.。
That's my part time job.。
I get paid hourly for that.。
And I think I might be a pastor, so I have no clue what。
my financial prospects are in the future.。
Your turn.。
And she said, OK, well, the car I drive right now is a lease.。
And I was like, OK, maybe the firm pays for that.。
Or the organization.。
So it's a lease.。
She said, I have a couple thousand dollars。
in credit card debt.。
I got no money in the bank.。
No real savings.。
And this is my income number.。
She told me her income.。
And I was like, record scratch.。
And I was like, hold on.。
That's your bonus, right?。
Like, that's not the income number, right?。
That number's a little bit lower than maybe I was expecting.。
And she said, well, yeah.。
I mean, I work for a nonprofit.。
And that's what we get paid.。
And I was like, oh, OK.。
So that's right.。
Television shows are fiction, OK?。
That's not necessarily reality.。
And then she took a deep breath.。
And she goes, but that's not what I'm most embarrassed by.。
She goes, here's the deal.。
I financed my undergrad.。
I financed law school.。
And right now, I'm sitting on student loans totaling $100,000.。
So we're sitting there.。
And I was really excited about this conversation.。
And I'm like, all right, I thought。
you were going to be sugar mama.。
And she maybe thought I was going to be sugar daddy.。
And we're like, there's no sugar in this relationship at all.。
And so you know what we did?。
We got engaged.。
That's what we did, because we were in love.。
We'll deal with that later, OK?。
I don't know if you should be clapping at that, OK?。
But that's what we did.。
And so our friends and our family。
knew about this situation.。
And they said, hey, here's what we think you should do.。
The church that you're a part of-- so we're at Watermark.。
The church has this thing called Moneywise, which。
is just this ministry that teaches God's word.。
And God's perspective on how to deal with your finances.。
Maybe you should call up a leader at Moneywise。
and meet with them before you get married,。
just to get their advice on what to do.。
And we said, great, we'll do that.。
So we sent an email and got a meeting set up with somebody.。
And they sent us a worksheet.。
And I'll never forget filling out that worksheet.。
They said, before our meeting, I want。
you to fill out this worksheet.。
And at the top of the worksheet, it。
said, list all your assets here.。
And so we listed like two or three things.。
And it said, now list all your liabilities.。
And we listed a lot of things.。
And it said, take your assets, subtract your liabilities.。
And this is what your net worth is.。
And I remember I had to fill it out as a negative number,。
negative $120,000.。
I remember meeting with this person.。
And so it was a gentleman who was serving at Moneywise,。
who was one of the elders here at Watermark, a guy。
by the name of Kyle Thompson.。
And he met us before one Sunday--。
or one Sunday before church, he met us for coffee.。
And I remember that shame and that embarrassment。
as I slid that sheet of paper across the table to him。
and said, this is our situation.。
What do you think?。
And he was so kind to us.。
And he sat there.。
And he helped us brainstorm some things.。
And he basically had one idea.。
He said, listen, I'm not going to tell you。
that you shouldn't get married with this amount of debt.。
But I am telling you right now, you guys。
need to come up with a plan.。
You need to come up with a plan.。
Because this debt is not going to be easy to get out of.。
And it's not going to take care of itself.。
And so you've got to have a plan, in a way,。
to get out of that.。
And we said, great.。
And so we thanked him.。
And we got in the car.。
And we came up with a plan.。
And the plan was to ignore it.。
And we followed that plan perfectly.。
And so we got married.。
And for six months, the first six months of our marriage,。
we just completely ignored this.。
It was like this sleeping giant that。
was in the corner of our small apartment.。
And we just wanted him to stay asleep.。
Just don't talk about debt.。
And let's just make sure that he stays asleep.。
And so six months, we sat there.。
And we ignored it.。
And then June 20, 2004, we show up to church that morning.。
And a gentleman gets on stage to preach.。
And it's that same guy we met with six months earlier.。
Kyle Thompson gets back up on stage.。
And he is preaching a message called。
Debt, a Biblical Perspective.。
And 27 minutes into that message,。
he opened up and turned to God's word.。
And he went to Proverbs 22.7.。
And this is what he read.。
He read this.。
He said, "The rich rule over the poor.。
And the borrower is slave to the lender."。
And he went on.。
And he talked about how when you're in debt,。
you feel like you were in this prison.。
And my wife and I, we were sitting。
on this side of the auditorium.。
And 27 minutes into that message, that scripture,。
it just pierced our hearts.。
And we just said, we have got to do something about this.。
That is exactly what we're feeling right now.。
We feel stuck.。
And so the church service ended.。
And we got back in our car.。
And we drove back to our apartment.。
And we had, what I can tell you now,。
16 years later, the most significant,。
or one of the most significant conversations we'd ever had,。
and still to this day, have ever had in our marriage.。
And we decided we were going to do something about our debt.。
And I start with all of that.。
Because at the time when we heard that message,。
and when Jackie and I first got married,。
we were 28 and 29 years old.。
We were ending this decade of our 20s.。
We were ending this roaring 20s.。
And the way our 20s were ending was very different。
than the way it began.。
It was ending, and the predominant emotion。
that we felt was fear, uncertainty, shame, hopelessness.。
And that is not the way our 20s started.。
Our 20s started with a tremendous amount of hope.。
The future seemed to be pregnant with possibility.。
It was just anything could possibly happen.。
And the difference between when we entered into our 20s。
and when we were leaving our 20s,。
why it went from hope to just shame,。
and fear, and uncertainty,。
was because all throughout our 20s,。
we made some really poor financial decisions.。
We made some poor choices.。
And as we continue on in this series,。
the roaring 20s, it really makes sense。
that this is something that we have to talk about,。
especially given this decade of decisions。
that so many of you guys are living in right now,。
here in your 20s.。
And I think this is a really, really important message。
for all of us, because here's what we all know is true,。
is that money impacts every single person。
in this room tonight.。
All of us are impacted by money.。
And it does not matter where you are。
on the financial spectrum.。
If you're in here and your net worth is a negative,。
and it's like six or seven digits,。
or your net worth is positive,。
and it's positive six or seven digits,。
it doesn't matter where you are on that spectrum,。
money impacts your life.。
And if you don't have the right perspective,。
and if you don't have a healthy relationship。
with money and possessions,。
you don't have that healthy relationship,。
then money is going to just rob you of life.。
And so we've got to take a look at this.。
And so tonight, what I want to do is I just want to talk。
about three really simple decisions。
that every single one of us need to make。
when it comes to money.。
We're going to open up God's word and look at how God's word。
informs the way we think about money.。
And some of you may even sit there。
and are just scratching your head a little bit at that,。
of just going, hold on, the Bible talks about money.。
And I just want to let you know, yeah,。
the Bible has a lot to say about money.。
In fact, it says some very counter-cultural things。
about money.。
And here's just two of them real quick,。
'cause this is going to help frame up the rest。
of our conversation for this evening.。
The first counter-cultural thing that scripture says。
about money is this, is that money is primarily。
a heart issue, not a numbers issue.。
Jesus in Matthew chapter six, verse 21,。
he says that where your heart is,。
that's where your treasure will be.。
And so Jesus makes it really clear that your heart,。
your heart is really what determines your relationship。
and the kind of relationship that you have。
with money and possessions.。
It's not just, the numbers don't tell the whole story.。
What tells the whole story is where is your heart。
in this relationship with money and possessions?。
So that's the first counter-cultural thing。
that scripture says about money.。
And the second one is this, is that our relationship。
with money and possessions is to be a relationship。
that's primarily defined by stewardship,。
not defined by ownership.。
Let me unpack that a little bit,。
'cause stewardship and steward, that's a word。
that many of us don't use very often.。
And so when I say steward, here's what I mean.。
A steward is this, a steward is somebody。
who manages another's property。
according to the owner's vision and values.。
So a steward is somebody who has been given。
somebody else's property, and that steward is responsible。
for managing that property, not according to their own。
vision and values and according to what they wanna do,。
but according to the owner's vision and values.。
And that is the relationship that you and I are to have。
with money and possessions according to God's word.。
And you see that in 1 Chronicles 29, 10,。
all the way through 20, you see it in Psalm 24, 1,。
it talks about the earth is the Lord's。
and everything in it, which means this.。
It means that we are stewards of everything。
and owners of nothing.。
And so our relationship with money and possessions。
is driven primarily by our heart。
and our relationship with God,。
and the relationship that God wants us to have。
with money and possessions is the one of stewardship,。
not one of ownership.。
And so if we want to be faithful stewards,。
then there's some decisions that we're gonna need to make,。
especially in this decade of decisions。
that you guys are navigating right now.。
And these decisions that we're gonna make。
are gonna keep our relationship with money。
and possessions healthy,。
ultimately keep our relationship with God healthy,。
and help you and I to be faithful stewards.。
So if you got your Bibles, here we go,。
let's jump in first to Proverbs 27,。
verses 23 through 27,。
here's what the author of Proverbs 27 says, is this.。
It says, "To be sure to know the condition of your flocks。
"and give careful attention to your herds.。
"For riches do not endure forever,。
"and a crown is not secure for all generations."。
Again, some of you may be sitting there going,。
Adam, I don't know where you live right now,。
but I just want to inform you, I do not live on a farm.。
Okay, so I'm having trouble connecting the dots here,。
'cause I think he's talking about like farm stuff,。
know the condition of your flocks,。
give careful attention to your herds,。
like what's up here, what am I supposed to learn from this?。
And let me explain.。
The author of this proverb was writing to an audience。
that was primarily living,。
or they were living in an agrarian culture,。
meaning everybody kind of lived on a farm at that point.。
Everybody was, that was the way。
that they were taking care of themselves。
and taking care of their families.。
And so what the author of this proverb。
is reminding the readers is this,。
is hey, give careful attention to your flocks。
and to your herds, know the condition of those.。
What he's basically saying here is be diligent.。
Be diligent with your sources of income.。
Track your sources of income.。
Make sure you have a good understanding。
of your sources of income.。
And the reason why is because those riches。
don't endure forever,。
and a crown is not secure for all generations.。
Just because you have some money。
or some sources of income today。
doesn't mean you're gonna have it tomorrow.。
And so the first decision that we need to make,。
especially in this decade,。
the first decision that you need to make is this,。
is you need to decide to be diligent.。
Decide to be diligent.。
And you need to decide to be diligent。
for the exact same reasons。
that the author of this proverb。
was encouraging the readers to be diligent.。
It's because if you're not diligent,。
things can quickly get out of control.。
You've gotta be able to watch。
and know the conditions of the source of your income。
so that you can take care of yourself。
and take care of maybe your family one day.。
You've gotta be diligent with that.。
So how are we diligent today?。
How are we diligent?。
The primary way that we are diligent today is this,。
and this is not gonna be very popular,。
but this is how you do it.。
You have a budget,。
and you have a system for tracking your expenses.。
That is the best way to be diligent.。
That is the best way to know the condition of your flocks。
and the condition of your herds。
is to know and track those sources of income,。
where those dollars are coming, where are they going,。
and to track that stuff.。
And so you just need to pick a tool.。
Pick one that will work for you.。
You can use the one that my wife and I,。
we love this one called YNAB, you need a budget.。
It like judges you every time you open it,。
it just commands you,。
hey, just let me remind you, you need a budget.。
I preach, you're right, I do, I need one.。
Just reminds you every day.。
It's this great system and it connects to your bank。
and it tracks your expenses and helps you set up a budget.。
There's mint.com, you can use an Excel spreadsheet.。
You can use the register in the checkbook if you want to.。
Just use a system that works for you。
to know well the condition of your flocks.。
And the reason that we are to do this。
is because if we don't, if we don't do this,。
things can get out of control in a hurry.。
And so yes, we may not live in an agrarian culture。
right now where we're on farms and we gotta know,。
you know, that pig last year got me this much money。
and that one this year got me that,。
you know, last year got me this much.。
You know, it may not be that right now,。
but we do live in a strange time right now。
where it really is a challenge to continue to be diligent.。
And the time that you and I live in right now is this,。
is we live in a cashless culture.。
And spending nowadays is so easy, so easy.。
I don't know about you guys, but I remember back。
to when I first started making money,。
I was mowing grass like 14, 15 years old,。
and I would be done mowing the grass。
and I would go knock on the door of the person。
whose lawn I just mowed and you know what they did?。
You know how they paid me?。
They gave me this paper.。
It was like cash, they just gave it to me.。
Said, "Here, this is cash for what you just did."。
And I would take that cash and I would put it in my wallet.。
And so all I had to do to keep, you know,。
know the condition of my flocks。
and give careful attention to my hurts。
was not lose my wallet.。
That's all I had to do.。
And when I first started making money。
and there was cash in there,。
every transaction felt like losing.。
I would go to the movies with my friends。
or go to restaurants with my friends。
or I'd go to the baseball card shop or something like that。
and I would take money out and every single time。
I took that cash out and I put it across。
to pay for the movie or pay for the food。
or buy the baseball cards,。
every single time it felt like I was losing something.。
There was an emotion attached to that cash transaction.。
And nowadays, nowadays I'm just trying to keep my wallet。
as thin as possible.。
I don't want cash in there, right?。
I don't wanna lug all that around。
and nowadays we've got credit cards and debit cards。
and Venmo and PayPal and Apple Pay。
and things on your watch and all that kind of stuff.。
We've got all these digital cash transactions.。
And nowadays, the emotion with spending is gone.。
So what spending used to feel like losing,。
now you know what spending feels like,。
especially if you use a credit card.。
Spending feels like earning now.。
You know why?。
Because the banks have played this Jedi mind trick on us。
and they've gotten us to believe。
that points are somehow more valuable than dollars.。
And so we'll go, yeah, okay, that cost 45 bucks.。
Oh, well, that's 45 points。
and points are more valuable than dollars.。
And so we'll walk away from a transaction。
and you don't feel like you lost anything.。
You feel like you just gained something.。
And it is so easy nowadays,。
so easy to not only spend the money you have,。
but also to spend the money you don't have.。
Things can quickly get out of control,。
which is why every month when you get that email。
from your bank that says,。
"Here's your credit card statement for the month,"。
you like brace because you've been ignoring。
all of those transactions,。
just trying to fit in and have fun。
and just swipe, swipe, swipe,。
just going, "I'll deal with that later."。
And then the day of reckoning has come。
in the middle of the month。
and you've got to open up that statement。
and you feel what so many people feel。
where you just go, "Phew, it did not feel。
"like I was spending that much."。
Like, "Well, but I got a bunch of points, so that's okay.。
"Get a free flight to go somewhere。
"and spend a bunch of other money that I don't have.。
"We'll just keep this cycle going。
"over and over and over again."。
And so we gotta have a plan,。
we gotta be diligent,。
you've got to decide to be diligent。
because if you don't, things will get out of control。
and then you won't be able to catch up.。
But the other reason we need to be diligent is this,。
is what we've just talked about with stewardship.。
You know why?。
Because it's not your money.。
It's not yours.。
I mean, imagine this,。
imagine I just had $1,000 in my pocket right now。
and I brought one of you up and I just said,。
"Here, here's 1,000 bucks.。
"You do one job and that is just go invest it."。
And you went home and then you woke up tomorrow morning。
and you went into the bank and you walked into the bank。
and you go, "Listen, I was given this $1,000.。
"I just need you to invest it in something."。
And you hand it over to the bank teller。
and say, "Please invest it."。
And then imagine you leave。
and you come back a month later。
and you're like, "I wanna see how the investment is doing."。
And you go up to the exact same bank teller。
and you go, "Hey, last month I was in here。
"and I gave you $1,000 and I wanted you to invest it.。
"I entrusted my money to you。
"and I wanted you to invest it.。
"I'd like to know how that investment is doing."。
And imagine what you would feel like。
if the bank teller looked at you and was like,。
"Oh yeah, I think I kinda remember you.。
"You get, was it 100 bucks?。
"No, it was 1,000."。
And then they just start looking around。
and lifting up papers and looking for that money。
and getting online and trying to check different things。
and they're like, "I know we didn't spend it。
"but I don't know exactly where it is right now."。
So can we, like what's your phone number?。
Can I call you later and just try to let you know?。
You would not walk out of there feeling very comfortable。
and trusting that bank, right?。
You would not say they're being diligent.。
You would be frustrated and the primary reason。
you would be frustrated by that。
is because it's not their money。
and they were being careless with it.。
And I would imagine there's some of you。
in the room here tonight and you're sitting there going,。
listen Adam, I get it that I need to have a plan。
and track expenses and have a budget.。
I think I'm doing okay.。
I mean, I log on to my bank app every single day。
and I monitor that balance of my bank account。
and I never bounce a check and I never overdraw.。
I'm always paying off my credit card bill.。
I pay all my bills on time.。
I don't think I need a budget.。
I don't think I need to track anything.。
I think I'm doing okay.。
And I just wanna remind you that okay,。
just doing okay is not okay.。
That's not being diligent.。
If you wanna be a faithful steward,。
if you wanna have a good relationship。
with money and possessions,。
then you will make that decision to be diligent。
because it's not your money.。
And if you're not diligent, the riches don't endure forever.。
Things can get out of control in a hurry.。
So that's the first decision.。
The second decision is this, is you've got to decide,。
you've gotta decide to deal with debt.。
Decide to deal with debt.。
Now let me just be really clear here。
about a couple of things and specifically。
with the way scripture talks about debt.。
I wanna be clear with this,。
is that God's word does not say that debt is a sin.。
It does not command you that you cannot enter in to debt。
or go into debt.。
What God's word says about debt is this,。
is that it cautions us to be careful with debt,。
but it does not command us to completely avoid debt.。
The best way I know how to think about this。
from a word picture perspective。
that we all understand is this,。
is that debt is like a port-a-potty, okay?。
So we are cautioned to avoid port-a-potties。
as often as we possibly can, right?。
Like we are to use them as a last resort.。
And then if you do have to use one,。
you wanna get in and get out as fast as you can, right?。
And so it's the same thing with debt.。
We're just cautioned against it.。
And if you have to use debt, use it as a last resort.。
And if you have to enter into debt,。
just try to get in and get out as fast as you possibly can.。
And so if you want, if you wanna be a faithful steward,。
and if you wanna have a healthy relationship。
with money and possessions,。
if you want money not to rob you of life,。
then you have got to make a decision to deal with debt.。
And the reason God wants you and I to be cautious with debt。
is because that verse that Kyle Thompson read。
27 minutes into that message back in June of 2004,。
is that the rich rule over the poor,。
the borrower is the slave to the lender.。
When you and I, when we are in debt, we are not free.。
There are things that we wanna do that we can't do.。
There's things that we want to plan for the future。
that we can't plan for the future.。
It's just this cloud that follows us everywhere.。
And God doesn't want this cloud to follow us everywhere.。
He wants us to be free.。
And so He wants us to decide to deal with our debt now.。
And I just wanna be a friend and just remind you。
of something, that there is no easy way out of debt.。
It's just, and nobody's gonna force you。
to do anything with it.。
Nobody's gonna push you to do anything with it.。
You have got to make the decision。
that I wanna do something with this debt.。
You've gotta do it.。
And there's no easy way out.。
And so I've been on staff here at Watermark。
for almost 10 years.。
And I had a couple of year run where I was leading。
Money Wise, that financial stewardship ministry。
that I was telling you guys about.。
And I had a chance to lead that.。
And I just had countless conversations with people。
who were in debt and just felt stuck.。
Countless conversations with people that are like,。
listen, I wanna get out of debt.。
I'm motivated to get out of debt.。
I'm looking at the budget right now.。
And I don't know where I'm gonna find any extra money。
to be able to get out of debt.。
Will you help me look at this budget。
and help me find some money?。
And I mean, this conversation happened over and over。
and over again.。
I'd sit with somebody and they'd show me their budget.。
And they go, look, here's the income.。
Here's all the expenses.。
I don't know where I'm gonna be able to find any money.。
I feel like I'm barely making ends meet right now.。
How am I gonna find more money to throw at the debt?。
And they would start to pick on the exact same。
two categories.。
So many people did this.。
They go, I bet I could eat out less.。
And I bet I could cancel Netflix or DirecTV。
or something like that.。
I bet if I did that, that would free up some cash。
so that I could start to throw it at the debt。
and get out of it.。
And I would have the same conversation.。
I'm going, yeah, that might be the right move.。
It might be the right move.。
But what you need right now is you don't need。
dozens of dollars.。
You need hundreds of dollars.。
Dozens of dollars are gonna be helpful。
to get you out of debt.。
But when you're really drowning in debt right now,。
you don't need dozens of dollars.。
You need hundreds of dollars a month。
that you can throw at that debt。
so you can feel like you're starting to make progress.。
And if that's you here tonight,。
if you're sitting there and you're like, listen,。
I feel that, I feel stuck, I don't know where to start,。
I'd love to try to find hundreds of dollars if I could。
in my budget right now,。
here are the three categories you've got to look at.。
It's not just food and entertainment.。
That'll get you maybe a little bit of the way there.。
But the three categories are this.。
You've gotta look at housing, transportation, and income.。
Housing, transportation, and income.。
That's usually where you can find hundreds of dollars.。
And so let's just unpack that a little bit。
because here's what this means from a housing perspective.。
What this means from a housing perspective。
is that some of you might need to make。
a really difficult decision。
about your current housing situation。
to free up some cash so that you can deal with that debt.。
And what this means is that some of you in here tonight。
might need to call your parents on the way home。
and go, listen, can I move back in?。
Can I move back in right now。
because I'm paying so much money。
to live in this apartment right now。
in this cool part of town where all the cool people are,。
and I think if I could free that money up,。
I could be out of debt in like a couple of years.。
Can I move back in right now?。
Or if you don't wanna call your parents。
or your parents live out of town and you don't wanna move,。
then you need to start to call some friends。
and go, listen, let's just be roommates.。
Let's squeeze as many people in here as we can。
and let's just try to reduce as many costs as possible。
so that we can all deal with this debt.。
And I know what you're thinking.。
You're sitting there going, yeah, Adam, like roommates.。
That was college.。
I'm not doing that right now, okay?。
You think I'm gonna be having roommates。
and deal with all the, they always leave their dishes。
and they're loud and sharing a bathroom。
and sharing a bedroom and all that kind of stuff.。
You think I'm gonna do that anymore?。
I am done with that.。
Is that what you're telling me to do, Adam?。
Yeah, that's what I'm telling you to do.。
That's what I'm encouraging you to do.。
And here's the thing.。
This whole thing with roommates, if you do that,。
there's gonna be a little benefit in there.。
One of the benefits is this,。
that if you deal with roommates,。
it'll make you a better spouse one day.。
So if that's in your plans, if that's in your desires,。
that you wanna get married, guess what?。
That'll make you a little bit better。
because here I don't mean to burst anybody's bubble.。
Marriage is primarily a roommate situation, okay?。
There's a lot of just chores and making sure。
that everybody's living together fine.。
And so having a roommate is a great way。
to get ready for that.。
And so look at your housing situation.。
Look at that and think about, all right,。
what can I do if I could cut my rent in half?。
What can I do there?。
So that's housing, transportation.。
I know some of you, this may be the first time。
you've heard this, it is not just normal。
to always have a car payment.。
That's not normal.。
It's not just what everybody else does all the time.。
And so for some of you, what you might need to do。
is sit there and go, listen, I'm always in a new car.。
I don't need to be in a new car all the time.。
I've got just some news for you.。
I don't know if you guys know this,。
but cars, they still work after 10 years, often.。
They drive fine.。
And I don't know if you guys know this too,。
but auto manufacturers, they make all kinds of cars.。
They make more than just trucks and SUVs.。
They make smaller cars that are cheaper.。
It's just crazy.。
It's like this feat of engineering.。
They're cheaper.。
They're cheaper to buy and they're cheaper to drive.。
And so for some of you, what you may need to do。
is just sit there and go, listen,。
I don't need to always have this new car,。
this 500, $600 a month car payment.。
I'm gonna sell that car back。
and I'm gonna take whatever I've got in my savings。
and just go to Craigslist。
and I'm just gonna sort by a thousand bucks。
and I'm just gonna buy whatever's out there。
and just do that.。
Or I'm gonna get into a cheaper car.。
So housing, transportation.。
And then here's another one。
that I just don't think many people look at is income.。
Is income.。
A lot of times, people think they have an expense problem。
when really they don't have an expense problem.。
The expenses are what they are.。
Life is expensive.。
A lot of times what people have is an income problem.。
And so for you, what you may need to do。
if you're gonna deal with debt is this,。
is you need to start thinking about your weekends differently。
thinking about your nights differently.。
The weekends are now not a time for you to go to achieve,。
you know, live in your Michelob Ultra commercial life。
or something like that, right?。
Like maybe what you need to do on the weekends is this,。
instead of going to the restaurants with your friends,。
you just need to work at that restaurant.。
Instead of taking Uber all around all week,。
you need to drive for Uber.。
And just look for those,。
just a couple of hundred dollars extra a month。
to start to think differently about this。
because nobody's gonna do this for you.。
And there's no easy way out of it。
and you have got to deal with your debt.。
So you've gotta decide to be diligent。
and you've gotta decide to deal with debt.。
And then the last decision that we need to make is this,。
is you've gotta decide what will define your story.。
You've gotta decide what will define your story.。
And let me illustrate what I mean by this。
with a little illustration of a story of my buddy Paul.。
There's a buddy of mine that I've known for years.。
And when he graduated from college,。
he got married right after college。
and he and his wife were young, starting their career,。
had no kids and they were ready to live an adventure,。
married together and so they did what a lot of people did。
and where they go seek adventure and they moved to Colorado.。
And they love moving to Colorado and they went out there。
because they love everything that Colorado。
has to offer, they love the hiking and the camping。
and the skiing and the mountain biking,。
they love that whole outdoor vibe。
and so that's where they wanted to go。
as they were starting their life together。
and so they got jobs and they moved out there to Colorado。
and shortly after they got out there,。
they decided they needed to buy a vehicle。
and so what vehicle did they buy。
that was gonna fit this lifestyle that they were living?。
They got a Subaru Outback, right?。
Put the bike rack on it and everything,。
got the stickers on the back and he talked about。
how he loved that Subaru and so now,。
they're out there a few years and that car。
fit their lifestyle perfectly and now it was time for him。
to make some career moves and he was gonna be going back。
to grad school so he moved back here to Dallas.。
At this point, his family had started to grow,。
he'd had a couple of kids and he realized。
the Outback wasn't really practical anymore,。
he needed a little bit bigger car and so his in-laws,。
his in-laws came to him with an opportunity.。
They said, "Listen, we know you need a bigger car,。
"you can't fit all those car seats。
"in the back of the Outback right now."。
So we've got a full-size Lexus SUV。
with less than 100,000 miles and we're gonna sell it。
to you for 5,000 bucks.。
I mean, it was a steal, a steal of a deal。
and so he was like, "Listen, my family needs this,。
"I'll take it."。
So he sold the Outback, he starts driving the Lexus。
and I talked to him a few months after that。
and I'm like, "Man, how's that Lexus?。
"Do you like that thing?"。
And he was like, "I hate it."。
I said, "What do you mean you hate it?。
"Why do you hate the Lexus?"。
He said, "I hate the story that the Lexus。
"tells the world about me."。
'Cause I love that Outback.。
That Outback told the story to the world。
that I wanted the world to know about me.。
That Outback told everybody that I was an outdoorsman,。
that I knew how to mountain bike and I liked hiking。
and I liked camping and I wore a lot of Patagonia。
and I made my own granola, right?。
(congregation laughing)。
Love the story that the Outback told.。
And he goes, "This Lexus, this tells the story。
"like I'm in commercial real estate.。
"I waxed my eyebrows and I graduated from UT."。
(congregation laughing)。
He didn't like the story.。
He didn't like the story and as he's telling that,。
I'm sitting there and I'm laughing。
because I so identify with what he's saying.。
What my buddy Paul realizes is what so many of us in here,。
we maybe just haven't connected the dots。
like my friend Paul had,。
but we think stuff is gonna change our story.。
And so this drives so many decisions that we make。
when it comes to purchasing things.。
We wanna be known as somebody that goes to those restaurants.。
We like the story that our apartment tells。
in the part of town that we live in。
and we like the story that it tells。
that we wear this brand of shoes or this brand of clothes。
or we go to this part of the world for vacation.。
And so we just think that stuff is gonna tell our story。
better than we can tell the story。
because secretly what's going on inside all of us。
is we're all a little discontent with our story.。
We compare our story to everybody else's story。
and we're like,。
"Everybody else seems to have a better story than me."。
And so I know how I can change my story。
because I'm a little discontent with my story.。
I'll just get more stuff or I'll just get,。
I'll just, this brand will tell the story。
better than I can tell the story.。
And if we wanna be faithful stewards,。
if we want to make good decisions。
and we have got to decide what we want to define our story.。
And thousands of years ago,。
there were other people that were dealing with this。
with the Apostle Paul, an older Apostle Paul。
talking to a younger Timothy.。
He had some very helpful words that he shared with him。
in 1 Timothy 6 and so let's look at this.。
1 Timothy 6, six through 10, here's what Paul says,。
"But godliness with contentment is great gain."。
Paul is telling Timothy here is listen,。
you're following after God with contentment.。
You're winning if you've got those.。
You're winning if you've got those.。
And then he gives some warnings here and look at verse seven,。
he says, "For we brought nothing into the world。
"and we can take nothing out of it.。
"But if we have food and clothing,。
"we will be content with that.。
"Those who wanna get rich fall into a temptation。
"and a trap into many foolish and harmful desires。
"that plunge people into ruin and destruction."。
Look at that language.。
That is amazing, like clear, scary language.。
In verse 10, "For the love of money。
"is the root of all kinds of evil.。
"Some people eager for more money。
"have wandered from the faith。
"and pierced themselves with many griefs."。
So Paul's reminding Timothy in my way,。
he's still reminding us today that listen,。
you're following God in contentment, you're winning.。
Every single one of us struggles with discontentment。
and all of us will look to stuff。
to try to change that story。
and we think stuff is gonna change that。
and somehow it's gonna satisfy us.。
And Paul says, "If that's the case,。
"it's gonna be really dangerous."。
Because if you think more stuff is gonna change your story,。
then you're gonna have to go get more money.。
And if you keep going after more money,。
it is an endless pit that you will never, ever。
get to the finish line and you will never win.。
This impacts all of us.。
I mean, I even just think about my own life with all of this。
and how I need this personal reminder。
and it's just to bring this story kind of full circle.。
So last year I saved up a bunch of money。
and I bought a different vehicle,。
I bought a used vehicle and guess what I bought?。
I bought an Outback.。
And guess what I feel every single day。
when I drive that Outback?。
I feel like a fraud.。
Look at me.。
[congregation laughing]。
I hate camping.。
[congregation laughing]。
I don't wear a lot of Patagonia.。
I don't even have a real beard for crying out loud.。
And I feel like I'm out there。
trying to be some outdoor poser.。
And I literally, I mean, just to be vulnerable,。
I've literally had this conversation of going,。
this car's telling the wrong story.。
I need to go get more money so I can change my story.。
I think I'm kind of a Camry guy, right?。
Like nice and boring.。
That's probably me.。
And I'm just buying the lie。
that stuff is gonna change my story。
and tell my story better than I can.。
And listen, there's this discontentment that's in all of us。
and what Paul goes on to say。
is there is a cure for discontentment.。
And hear this, the cure for discontentment is Christ.。
That's the cure.。
Look at what he says here in verse 11.。
He says, "But you man of God,"。
reminding Timothy of his story.。
You are a man of God, that's your story.。
You man of God, flee from all of this.。
Flee from this pursuing after,。
this endless pursuit of money.。
Flee from that, turn your back on that,。
and here's what I want you to pursue.。
Righteousness, godliness, faith, love,。
endurance, and gentleness.。
Fight the good fight of faith.。
And I love that language.。
That if you're gonna try to live counter-cultural。
when it comes to this relationship。
with money and possessions, it is going to be a fight.。
It is not gonna be easy.。
But he says to fight this good fight,。
take hold of eternal life for which you were called。
when you made your good confession。
in the presence of many witnesses.。
He's saying, listen, Timothy,。
the cure for your discontentment is Jesus.。
That's the cure.。
So you decide to be diligent.。
You decide to deal with your debt,。
and you decide what's gonna define your story.。
And stuff, stuff is not gonna define your story.。
You make those decisions,。
and this decade can be really, really different.。
So June 20th, 2004, my wife and I,。
we get in that car, and we head home,。
and we start running some numbers,。
and just go, okay, we wanna do something about this debt.。
We wanna deal with it.。
So we ran some numbers and came up。
with a bunch of different scenarios of what we could do,。
and we gathered some friends together,。
and we got in the living room,。
and we slid another sheet of paper。
across the table to some people,。
and said, listen, this is what we can do.。
Option A right now is I'll drop out of seminary,。
I'll go back into accounting,。
Jackie will leave the nonprofit world.。
That'd be option A.。
It'd be a lot of change, but we're willing to do that.。
We think if we did that, we can maybe throw this much.。
We were looking primarily at that income number,。
going, I think we can change that,。
so let's try to change that.。
Option B, I'll just finish seminary,。
and then we'll deal with it later.。
Option C, we'll hope that I've got some long-lost relative。
that's about to die that I don't know.。
He's gonna leave me some money.。
So what do you think we should do?。
And our friends looked at us, and they said,。
listen, if you're willing to do option A,。
we'd say do option A.。
And we said, great, we'll do that.。
So from June 2004 to November 2004,。
I was, by the grace of God, was able to find a job。
back in accounting, dropped out of seminary.。
My wife was able to find a job in corporate America.。
She went from being an attorney to being a legal secretary.。
Took this huge title cut,。
but it gave a little bit of a pay raise,。
and that's what we needed.。
And so November 2004, when we were,。
our net worth was negative $120,000,。
we made our first aggressive debt payment.。
And then in March of 2008, we made our last debt payment,。
and our net worth was zero.。
(congregation applauding)。
And I'm telling you guys,。
it never felt so good to be worthless.。
(congregation laughing)。
So our relationship with money and possessions,。
it's not just a numbers issue, it's a heart issue,。
and we wanna be faithful stewards.。
If we're gonna be faithful stewards,。
and we've gotta decide to be diligent, 'cause it's not ours.。
Just this culture we live in, things can get out of control.。
We gotta decide to deal with our debt,。
and we've gotta decide what's gonna define our story.。
And the best financial decisions you could ever make。
is to root your story and your identity。
in the person of Jesus Christ, amen?。
Amen, let me pray that we'll do that.。
So Lord, we thank you.。
We thank you that your word is so practical for our lives,。
and so helpful for our lives.。
And so I pray, God, that you will help us to be diligent,。
that you will help those of us in this room here tonight。
that are in debt, that you will help us。
to deal with that debt.。
And God, I pray that you will help us。
to root our identity in who you are,。
and that we will understand。
that stuff doesn't tell our story, Jesus tells our story.。
And so God, I pray that you will help our hearts。
that are so prone to wander in discontentment.。
We need you to do that.。
So this is what we pray, in Christ's name, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
