[MUSIC PLAYING]。
All right, Porch, how we doing?。
Let's go.。
Let me hear it from you.。
Hey, it's great to be here together.。
You know, I don't know what else you could have。
had planned for this evening, but I。
know that you making the choice to be with us here。
is quite the honor.。
So thanks so much for choosing to be here with us。
this evening.。
Not only those of you here in the room, which you look great,。
you know, glad to have you, but also all of you。
tuning in from all over the nation.。
Like, it's so amazing that God's doing something。
significant here in Dallas, but he's。
doing something significant all over the nation.。
And so we're grateful that you would choose to trust us。
with your time.。
Special shout out to Porch's live Fresno, Fort Worth, Tulsa.。
We love that y'all are tuning in, as always.。
Well, Porch, we have been in a series in the book of Colossians。
and tonight we come to the fateful end.。
I know, that's how I feel.。
But before we get there, I'll start off with a story.。
I've shared this before, but I remember。
when I was 16 years old, making my way out。
from schools into the day and going to the pickup line.。
My dad was there and as always, he。
was sitting in the circle drive ready to pick me up and take me。
home.。
And so I make my way out.。
I see him sitting where he's always sitting.。
I throw open the door.。
I toss my bag into the backseat.。
I begin to climb up into the car.。
I sit down.。
I buckle myself in.。
And he looks at me.。
He's like, bro, what are you doing?。
Well, he didn't say bro, because that's not。
how dads talk to sons.。
But he said, what are you doing?。
Is it obvious?。
Please don't make me go back in there.。
Like it's the end of the school day.。
We're going home.。
I worked all day.。
It's time to get out of here.。
Fired up, brother.。
Like, let's get out.。
You're not going home with me.。
What are you talking about?。
Of course we are.。
We do this every single day.。
Like I get in the car, throw my bag in the back,。
buckle myself in, we drive home.。
What do you mean we're not going home together?。
You're not driving home with me today.。
And then he proceeded to toss me my own set of car keys.。
Yes, you can imagine my enthusiasm.。
I had been working year after year,。
mowing grass, saving up that hard earned money。
to pay for my portion of the vehicle.。
And so he throws me the keys.。
And he says, it's your son.。
Well, where is it?。
That's the catch.。
You've got to find it.。
What does that mean?。
It's in the parking lot.。
So I have no idea what this truck looks like,。
where he has it parked.。
So what do you think my response is in this moment?。
Like, are you serious?。
Like, no.。
I was enthused.。
I was like, man, like, where's that?。
Let me get out of here.。
And so I hopped out of the truck and I。
ran full on sprint into the parking lot.。
And I'm up and down the aisles and I'm clicking that clicker。
as fast as possible because I want to find my truck.。
Like, this is huge for me.。
Like, this is the secret.。
The passage into a whole new way of living.。
Like, this is going to give me a freedom the likes of which。
I've never known before.。
And so I'm moving up and down the aisles.。
I'm looking everywhere I can.。
I'm searching high and low.。
And wouldn't you believe it?。
I finally find it at the very back of the parking lot,。
looking fresh and clean and ready for our departure.。
How crazy would it have been if I unlocked that truck,。
I hopped up into the cab, I started tuning the stereo,。
reading the manual cover to cover, I hopped out。
of the truck and I started inspecting all the contours。
and lines of its body.。
Like, what would it--。
how crazy would it have been if I spent all that time。
learning as much about that truck as possible。
and yet I never drove it off the lot?。
How crazy would that be?。
It wouldn't make any sense.。
Why?。
Because that truck, it's meant for more.。
Like, it's not meant to stay where it is.。
It's meant for action.。
It's supposed to get out onto the road.。
It's supposed to lead me into the sunset。
and into a broader future.。
So let me ask you this, Porch.。
How crazy is it for us to receive the keys。
to a whole new way of life in Christ。
yet never take action on that life either?。
How crazy would that be?。
You see, we've been journeying through the book of Colossians。
and we've learned a lot up to this point.。
It's been weeks up until this time.。
And what we've been studying as we've made our way。
is we've learned the message of the gospel and the majesty。
of Christ's supremacy and the mysteries of his sufficiency。
and the myriad of threats we face along the way。
and the markings of genuine belief.。
We've learned so much.。
And yet as we come to the final page tonight,。
chapter 4 of the book, which if you have the Bible,。
you can turn there with me now.。
As we turn to the very end of this letter。
from the apostle Paul, which he's been telling us。
is all about, man, if you want maturity in life,。
then you need clarity of Christ.。
As we move to the final page,。
he tells us clarity doesn't just lead to your maturity,。
it also leads to a whole new activity.。
It changes the way you move through the world.。
That as we behold Jesus, yes, as Paul's repeatedly unpacked,。
yes, as you behold him, you do become like him,。
but not only that, you begin to believe like him,。
which is what?。
That there's a mission, that there's not just a message。
and a mystery and a majesty and a myriad of threats.。
No, there's a mission that we're supposed to be a part of,。
that God, he is saving the world,。
that he's rescuing people, that he's overcoming evil,。
that he's given purposes for us to fulfill,。
that this is what Jesus believed.。
And he fulfilled the mission。
and then handed us our marching orders.。
And he said, now you go and do it too.。
Like we have a part to play.。
And so what Paul wants to talk to us about tonight。
is how do we play that part?。
What does it look like for us to take everything。
we've learned and now live it in the real world?。
That's what he's taking us to.。
How is it that we joined the mission of Jesus Christ。
to save the world?。
He's gonna give us some steps.。
The first of which we find in verse two。
of Colossians chapter four, which says this,。
continue steadfastly in prayer,。
being watchful in it with thanksgiving.。
You see the first step that Paul is gonna teach us tonight。
is that we should pray with devotion.。
We should pray with devotion,。
which may feel a little anticlimactic to you.。
So you're telling me that's it?。
Like we have appeared into the mysteries of the gospel.。
We have postulated on the majesties of God.。
We have pointed out all the spiritual frauds of our day.。
And that's the takeaway.。
Like that's what you're telling me.。
Just pray about it a little bit.。
That's what you want me to walk away tonight with.。
Thank you so much for wasting the last nine weeks。
of my life.。
Here's the thing that you need to understand.。
Paul has a very different understanding of prayer。
than we so often do.。
You see, he sees something in prayer。
that we too frequently forget, which is this.。
That prayer is powerful.。
That it's powerful.。
Some of you are like,。
"Man, I could have forecasted you were gonna say that."。
But here's the thing.。
Like don't tune out yet because I want you to catch the fact。
that this is such a momentous part。
of not just this chapter, but this book.。
Because you see the disciples, the followers of Jesus,。
they come to him in Luke chapter 11,。
and they look at him and they say,。
"Jesus, would you teach us how to pray?"。
That's what they ask him.。
And it's the only instance in the entire Bible,。
specifically within the gospel accounts,。
where his disciples come to him and say,。
"Hey, will you teach us this exactly?"。
What would you have asked Jesus to teach you?。
How to walk on water?。
How to perform some miracles?。
How to debate your opponents?。
How to make a public speech?。
Like what would you have asked?。
Like what would you have had him teach you?。
They could have asked him anything.。
Like this is the son of God.。
Like this is deity in flesh.。
And they look at him and they say,。
"Would you teach us how to pray?"。
Why?。
Why do they ask that?。
Because they'd seen him pray.。
And they'd seen the difference it made.。
You see, as they saw Jesus,。
what they saw was a man that looked unlike。
any other man they'd ever known.。
The gospel writers, they're emphatic about this.。
Matthew 7 tells us,。
"And when Jesus finished these sayings,。
the crowds were astonished at his teachings,。
for he was teaching them as one who had authority。
and not as their scribes.。
He stood out."。
John 6, it tells us,。
"Simon Peter answered him,。
'Lord, to whom shall we go?。
You and you alone have the words of eternal life.'"。
And we've believed, we've come to know,。
you're the Holy One of God, not someone else.。
You are, you're the Holy One of God.。
You have the words of eternal life.。
Where else would we go?。
Mark 4 tells us,。
"And they were filled with great fear.。
And they said to one another,。
'Who then is this that even the wind and the sea obey him?'"。
Later in Mark, it says,。
"And when the centurion who stood facing him upon the cross。
saw the way that he breathed his last, he said,。
'Truly, this man was the son of God.'"。
Because mortal men do not die like that.。
They do not die with their life in their own hand.。
There's no one like him.。
Like Jesus spoke and moved and taught and served。
and loved in a way,。
the likes of which we have never before seen.。
And I would argue it is largely, not entirely,。
but largely due to the fact。
that he pulled from the power of his prayer life.。
That he pulled from the power of his prayer life.。
Like all throughout the gospels,。
if you just trace the miracle-making moments。
of his ministry,。
what you'll find is on the front side or on the backside,。
either preceding or proceeding,。
those moments is a moment of prayer.。
You see, Jesus rhythmically retreated to be with God.。
So he rhythmically repeated the works of God.。
He would retreat to be with him.。
And because of it, he would repeat the works of God.。
And here's what's crazy.。
You listening, porch?。
Paul's telling us how we can tap into the same source,。
how we can access the same power.。
Jesus says it in John chapter 14.。
He says, "Truly, truly, I say to you。
that whoever believes in me。
will also do the works that I do."。
Like everything he did, hello, it's available for you.。
Like you can do it, but not just that, keep listening.。
"And greater works than these will she do。
because I am going to the Father."。
Where's Jesus right now?。
He's not here.。
He's with the Father,。
which means greater works are available to you and I.。
How do we access it?。
"Whatever you ask in my name,。
whatever you pray,。
this I will do that the Father may be glorified in the Son."。
Which sounds pretty incredible, right?。
Like, do you want some of that in your world?。
Like, I would take some of that.。
That's why Paul tells us,。
"Hey, then continue steadfastly in prayer.。
Be watchful in it with thanksgiving."。
He says that we should be steadfast.。
As we pray, we should be focused.。
We should be devoted.。
If you look at the original language,。
what it's saying there is that we should be singularly,。
undividedly committed to one pursuit.。
Another translation says that we should be devoted to prayer.。
So think about something that you were recently devoted to.。
Training for a marathon,。
saving up to buy a house,。
working to pay off debt,。
trying to get that guy or that girl's attention.。
You know, like what,。
I don't know what it is that you were devoted to。
here recently,。
but what was true of your devotion?。
The degree of your devotion。
informed the degree of your decisions.。
Like if you wanted that,。
then you would do whatever it took to get there.。
I love Abraham Lincoln.。
He says that discipline is choosing what we want most。
over what we want now.。
That's devotion.。
It's I'm willing to do discipline to get what I want most.。
Even if it means I have to forgo some things。
that I want right now.。
That's how Paul is saying we should pray.。
He's saying we should pray with that kind of devotion,。
with that kind of intensity,。
with that kind of urgency.。
You know, like that's what he's articulating.。
But here's the reality, Porch.。
Many of us, we can't give prayer that kind of devotion。
because we've given that kind of devotion。
to something else entirely.。
We can't give God in prayer,。
through humble pursuit,。
the kind of devotion he deserves。
because we've given that sort of devotion。
to something else altogether.。
Like some of you are so devoted to your job.。
Like we're coming into review season.。
And so you've got to finish well, you know,。
I'm about to sit down with my boss.。
He's about to review how I've done this last year.。
And I want to like race to the finish line.。
I want him to look at me and say,。
"Man, I'm so glad we hired you.。
You're the best pickup we've ever gotten."。
And so you're devoted to that.。
Others of you, summer's here,。
sun's out, guns out, you know,。
you're working out, you're hitting the gym。
because it's full season, baby.。
Like you're doing everything in your power。
to show up and show out there.。
Some of you, you're just devoted。
to getting through the week.。
Like it's miserable Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday,。
but the weekend will be better.。
Or that trip will be better.。
Or that event will be better.。
Or that extracurricular I have coming up,。
that will be better.。
Some of you, you're so committed.。
You're so devoted to your community.。
That instead of going and talking to God,。
you're just talking to other people.。
Believers, yes, but other people about it.。
You're confessing sin, you're investing in relationship,。
making strategic deposits in the lives of people.。
You're serving others.。
You know, you're doing everything you can in community.。
And here's the reason, and it could be something else.。
You know, it doesn't have to be those things.。
It could be something else.。
What is it though that you are devoted to?。
Answer it.。
Like, what would you write down for that?。
All of us are devoted to something.。
And I'm not saying that these things are intrinsically bad.。
I'm not saying they're unworthy of your devotion.。
But what I am saying is some things are more deserving。
of your devotion than others.。
And prayer's at the top of that list.。
Like, prayer should be our first priority,。
not our last resort.。
Like, it's not the thing you do。
whenever you run out of options.。
It's the thing you do before you look to other options.。
Leonard Ravenhill, British evangelist, author,。
just one fiery individual, he said this.。
"No man is greater than his prayer life.。
"The pastor who is not praying is playing.。
"The people who are not praying are straying.。
"We have many organizers, but few agonizers.。
"Many players and payers, but few prayers.。
"Many singers, but few clingers.。
"Lots of pastors, but few wrestlers.。
"Many fears, few tears.。
"Much fashion, but little passion.。
"Many interferers, few intercessors.。
"Many riders, but few fighters.。
"Failing here, we fail everywhere."。
Why is that?。
What's Leonard getting at?。
A prayerless person is a powerless person.。
A prayerless person is a powerless person.。
Some of you, with whatever that thing,。
the object of all your attention in life is right now,。
you have worked so hard.。
You have checked all the traps.。
You have strategized to the best of your ability.。
You have given a good college try.。
You have absolutely poured on everything you have to give。
to change that situation.。
But man, you're just shooting blanks。
because you've not prayed about it.。
There's no power in your attempt。
because there's no power apart from God.。
So what are we supposed to pray for?。
Two things, real quick.。
We won't spend a ton of time on this.。
The first thing that we pray for。
is we pray for opportunity.。
That's what Paul talks about in verse three.。
He says, "At the same time, pray also for us,。
"that God may open to us a door for the word。
"to declare the mystery of Christ,。
"on account of which I'm in prison."。
This is crazy.。
Just picture it.。
Paul is sitting in prison,。
bound under Roman authority,。
very likely persecuted in this moment,。
but his prayers are not that God。
would open the door to his cell.。
His prayers are that God would open the door。
for an opportunity to share the gospel.。
That's convicting.。
Like some of us, myself included,。
have been in moments where we have been begging,。
"God, please, just get me out of here.。
"Like I've been working so hard in this,。
"and yet it's not at all what I expected.。
"Like God, I'm ready for the next thing.。
"I feel so stuck right now.。
"Please, won't you lead me out?。
"Won't you open a door?。
"Won't you make a way?"。
And yet God is standing on the other side,。
knowing well what's behind that door,。
and he's saying, "I love you too much to open it.。
"I will leave you where you are.。
"Do not focus at the opportunities out ahead.。
"Focus on the opportunities here at hand.。
"Think about the now.。
"Work here in the moment."。
I love it.。
This isn't even in my notes,。
but when you look at Adam and Eve,。
before Eve ever comes along,。
God's got Adam lined up, man,。
and that brother wants a wife.。
He's like some of you.。
And so he's waiting, and he's waiting, and he's waiting,。
and you know what he does, though?。
Rather than getting frustrated,。
"God, why won't you send her?"。
He goes to work.。
He names every animal in that garden.。
That brother sees the opportunity.。
He did good work.。
And then God opened the door in his own time.。
Some of you need to trust that the Lord does love you.。
He is good, and he will open the door at the right time,。
but perhaps he hasn't opened it yet。
because right now he's already opened a door。
that he's waiting for you to walk through.。
(man whistling)。
So you pray for opportunity.。
Verse four tells us that we pray for clarity.。
Says that I may make it clear,。
which is how I ought to speak.。
I love this, coming from the apostle Paul,。
because next to Jesus,。
he's the best preacher we've ever seen,。
and yet he's praying for clarity.。
Some of you, you feel so unfit to share the gospel.。
You feel so unfit to talk about your spirituality。
because you're not a poetic savant,。
because you're not a master orator,。
and yet Paul's saying, "Man, just preach it plain, brother.。
"Like, just tell 'em how it is.。
"Be understandable."。
He prays for clarity.。
We should pray for clarity, too.。
This is the first step to saving the world。
that we should take, porch.。
We pray with devotion.。
But as we go to verse five, Paul gives us the next.。
It says, "Walk in wisdom toward outsiders,。
"making the best use of the time."。
The second step that Paul gives us。
is that we walk with wisdom.。
Paul says we walk, which incidentally,。
is a pretty underwhelming activity。
if you're describing the Christian life.。
Like, that's it?。
We walk?。
Like, couldn't we put something better in there?。
Like, we fight, you know, or we march, or we wrestle.。
Like, I don't know what your better descriptor would be,。
but Paul says, "No, we walk."。
Like, this is the way we move through the Christian life.。
We walk.。
Why does he choose this?。
Because this was the primary mode of transportation。
for every single person in the ancient Near East.。
If you wanted to get from point A to point B,。
more likely than not, you were walking there.。
All of Jesus's ministry, he walked from town to town.。
This was something you did every single day.。
It was ordinary.。
And in the same way,。
our spiritual life consists of walking every single day.。
I love it.。
Like, Paul is telling us,。
"Your Christianity should look ordinary.。
"It shouldn't be extraordinary.。
"It shouldn't be reserved.。
"And when you're here on Tuesday nights,。
"you show up on Sunday mornings,。
"you're around that group of Christian friends."。
Like, Christian's not a switch you flip。
whenever you're in the proper context.。
Now, that would be an extraordinary expression.。
No, it's an ordinary expression.。
It is an everyday, day by day,。
rise and grind type of life.。
It's ordinary.。
And it's good that this is the case。
because it requires our consistency.。
I love the way one commentator put it.。
"The Christian walk merely consists。
"of two steps repeated over and over and over again.。
"Put off the old and put on the new."。
Which is a reference to Colossians chapter three.。
You see, Paul's point here。
is that we should live in such a way。
that our actions back up our convictions.。
Because the world,。
the world is far less interested in your talk。
and they are far more interested in your walk.。
They wanna believe how you behave.。
They don't want to adopt。
something you yourself have not adopted.。
So Christian, it's imperative。
that your convictions are supported by actions.。
That you don't grumble against other people or complain.。
But instead you reserve your words.。
You bite your tongue。
because you know that you should speak only if it builds up.。
It means that you don't run into frantic, stress out.。
Everything is breaking.。
Like it's all going into chaos.。
Like you don't worry when things fall on red alert。
because you know that you need not be anxious.。
But in everything about prayer and petition,。
you present your requests to God.。
We're supposed to walk in wisdom.。
We're supposed to live in a way。
that looks wildly odd to the watching world.。
Like I preach up here every week.。
And I do so with a kind of animation and intensity。
because I don't wanna look casual。
about the things we talk about.。
No, I want to back up all of my convictions。
with urgency and action.。
I want you to see I believe this stuff。
and we should live in a way that believes it too.。
Believers are known by their behavior.。
So what do your behaviors look like?。
So what's the walk supposed to look like?。
Well, I don't know if you've done much walking in your life.。
Not just to and fro from here and there,。
but concerted, deliberate exercise.。
Something that Brooke and I have recently picked up.。
And so every time I know that we're gonna go on a walk,。
I'm always preceded with two questions.。
I've got to know a couple of different things。
before I set out and hit the open trail.。
Number one, I always wanna know where are we walking?。
Like, is this just a casual stroll around the neighborhood。
or is this over the river and through the woods。
kind of stuff?。
Like, are we going on an adventure。
or are we gonna be back in 30?。
I just wanna know where are we going?。
And then I wanna know how are we planning to walk?。
Is it leisurely or are we moving hastily。
with a brisk pace and a lot of purpose?。
I need to know because it's going to determine。
my expectation.。
Paul thankfully looks at us。
and he answers those same questions.。
He tells us where we walk and how we walk.。
He's already told us how we walk.。
We walk in wisdom.。
That was the point.。
You walk with wisdom.。
What's wisdom?。
What does that even mean?。
Well, according to the Bible,。
wisdom is judging correctly。
and following the best course of action。
in a given situation.。
It's like that friend you call,。
whenever the bottom falls out,。
you don't know what to do,。
but they always have the right answer.。
They always know what to do.。
That friend has what?。
They have wisdom.。
They have street smarts.。
They know how to succeed in any situation.。
We're supposed to walk with a kind of wisdom。
that's characterized similarly.。
We walk this way.。
And what it does is it leads us to look pretty odd,。
but that's okay。
because uncommon people make uncommon moves.。
Uncommon people make uncommon moves.。
If people are not walking up to you and saying,。
man, you're just different.。
Like you just,。
you don't strike me as the average,。
ordinary run of the mill individual.。
Like, why are you the way you are?。
Why do you do the things you do?。
You're probably not that uncommon。
and thus you're probably not walking in wisdom.。
The way of the Christian walk。
is not the way of the world's walk.。
It looks abnormal.。
So how abnormal do you look?。
Paul says in 2 Corinthians 6,。
verses two through four,。
behold, now is the favorable time.。
Behold, now is the day of salvation.。
We put no obstacle in anyone's way。
so that no fault may be found in our ministry.。
But as servants of God,。
we commend ourselves in every way.。
We're willing to walk in a way。
that commends ourselves and our gospel to other people。
by great endurance and afflictions。
and hardships and calamities and beatings。
and imprisonments and riots and labors。
and sleepless nights and hunger.。
And it goes on.。
That's pretty odd that people would do that。
to lead others to Christ.。
Yes?。
Like that's not the way of the world.。
You should look different.。
You should be uncommon.。
And yet this sort of uncommonality,。
what it does is it allows us to walk in a way。
that presents a persuasive case。
that Jesus is who he says he is。
and he is worthy of following。
because we ourselves are following him too.。
That's how we walk.。
Where do we walk?。
We walk towards outsiders.。
I love that Paul doesn't just say we walk with God.。
No, we walk toward outsiders,。
not towards your holy huddle,。
not towards your Christian clique,。
not towards your friend group。
that you see each and every day of the week.。
No, you walk towards outsiders.。
That's where you walk.。
Not away from them, but to them,。
which is an intimidating prospect.。
I get it, man.。
Like I'm an introvert, you know?。
Like I'm quite all right just doing me.。
Like I don't necessarily need to be around people.。
I don't like to be the center of attention.。
I enjoy going to movies by myself.。
And yet,。
and yet as one pastor said,。
your personality type does not get to determine。
your purpose.。
Like there's a variety of hardwirings in this room,。
but if you're a believer, a follower of Christ,。
you and I and all alike have the same purpose,。
which is to know God and to make him known.。
We walk toward the outsider.。
And we do so by seizing every moment,。
by making the best use of time.。
I remember in college, one of my best friends today,。
I didn't know him at the time.。
I knew of him, he and I were not close,。
but I would see him at the gym every single day.。
Like I would go and he'd be there.。
And the reason he stood out to me was not just because。
we were at the gym every single day around the same time.。
Like that's pretty average.。
What was uncommon about this brother。
is he was there with four to five other guys。
and they were all working out together。
and they weren't just working out together.。
They were reading Bible verses。
and they were taking that as fuel and motivation。
to like deadlift PRs.。
It was the weirdest thing in the world,。
but I couldn't help but notice.。
And so later on in our friendship,。
I finally looked at him and I was like,。
"Brother, like what was going on back there?。
Like one guy would hit you with Romans 5.8。
and you would walk up and you would max rep right there.。
Like, how did that work?。
What were you doing?"。
And I love it.。
He looked at me and he was like,。
"You know, it's a couple hours every day。
that I could either spend on myself。
or I could spend on someone else.。
And so, because Christ was willing to give his time for me,。
I will give my time for them."。
Make the best use of the time.。
Walk with wisdom towards outsiders.。
The last step he gives us in verse six,。
the final step for saving the world.。
Let your speech always be gracious,。
seasoned with salt that you may know。
how you ought to answer each person.。
The third step that Paul gives。
is he tells us to speak with grace.。
Speak with grace.。
Which means that our speech should be marked。
with an abnormal, undeserved kind of kindness.。
That's what grace is.。
Grace is unmerited favor.。
It's meant you don't deserve this,。
but I'm going to extend to you my love,。
my kindness, my compassion.。
And so that's how we're meant to speak.。
There should be a friendliness to the way。
in which we talk to other people.。
Like at my last job, we had this six foot rule on staff。
that if anybody was ever within six feet of you,。
you should engage them and you should do so kindly.。
And so I took this to heart.。
I thought it was a really good principle.。
And so I'm doing this and I'm at church on a Sunday。
and I see a guy and he's within my radius.。
And so I spring into action.。
I'm like, "Hey man, how's it going?"。
And he was like, "What is with this place?。
You're the sixth person to come up and tell me hello.。
This is the nicest place I've ever been.。
What are y'all doing?"。
And I was like, "Man, you know,。
Jesus was welcoming to us when we were new.。
And so we're welcoming to those that are new themselves."。
And he looked at me,。
he said, "Man, I think the world could use。
a little bit of that."。
I was like, "It's funny you should say that.。
The Bible would agree."。
You know, like that's what Paul's pointing to.。
Paul is saying that our speech should be gracious.。
It should be gracious and it should be seasoned with salt.。
Which if you've run in Christian circles long enough,。
you've heard that idea, you know, salt of the earth.。
But what does it even mean?。
Well, in the ancient world, salt had two specific purposes.。
It was used for seasoning and preserving.。
And our speech should be the same way.。
Like your speech should have some flavor.。
Like no one likes to eat bland food。
and no one likes to hear a bland gospel.。
Like there should be some flavor in the way you talk.。
Like it is odd that we can get animated and interested。
in all manner of things, business and politics。
and sports and fashion.。
And yet we can remain unanimated。
and uninterested in the person of Jesus.。
That's crazy.。
That makes no sense.。
Every single thing is going to dust.。
It's all gonna wash away.。
It's all gonna wear out, except for who?。
The person of Christ that has made it available。
that we all can live with him forever and always.。
So why would we not get jazzed up and energized。
at the thought of him?。
We should be deeply animated.。
There should be salt, seasoning, flavor, excitement,。
enthusiasm in the way that we talk about him.。
There's no one like him.。
He's incomparable.。
He is wondrous beyond imagination.。
And yet we just talk about him like this.。
How do you think he talks about you?。
I hope it's not like that.。
And in fact, I know it's not like that。
because you need only read this。
to see that he would go every depth.。
He would go every length.。
He would move every width to get to you.。
So how are you talking about him?。
But it's not just that our speech should be seasoned。
with flavor and fire and fullness,。
but it also should prevent corruption.。
Like it should preserve.。
Like, what does that mean?。
A simple way to put it is it should be encouraging.。
What does encouragement?。
Encouragement doesn't tear people down.。
It holds them up.。
It builds them up.。
Literally, the definition of an encouragement。
is to put courage into someone.。
And that's what we should do.。
We should speak encouraging words.。
That's what Paul says in a different letter.。
He says in Ephesians 4, 29,。
"Let no corrupting talk,。
"that which is not characteristic of a preservation。
"of preserving nature,。
"let no corrupting talk come out of your mouth,。
"but only such as is good for building up,。
"as fits the occasion,。
"that it may give grace to those who hear."。
This is how the believer is meant to speak.。
Like Charles Spurgeon, favorite preacher, he said this,。
"No reason exists why the preaching of the gospel。
"should be a miserable operation,。
"either to the speaker or to the hearer."。
There's no reason.。
It doesn't need be miserable.。
It can be both full of flavor and it can be encouraging,。
which I just love.。
Like the gospel, it is full of gravity.。
It is the most weighty, significant,。
meaningful thing in all the world.。
Some of you are here and you've never heard it.。
Welcome.。
You will hear no better news anywhere else.。
It is full of gravity.。
And it is full of gladness.。
The Christian life is not a tragedy.。
It's a comedy, not in the sitcom sort of way,。
but in the way that knows there's a happy ending ahead。
because Christ Jesus has won.。
He has overcome the dead.。
(congregation applauding)。
So that gives us every reason to share the good news.。
To share the good news.。
How does that make you feel?。
(congregation cheering)。
I know for some of us, that's the response,。
but listen, man, like I once sat in your seat。
and I would hear these moments come along.。
We're at the end of the conference, the end of the series.。
Oh no, like,。
the evangelistic guilt trip.。
It's been so great, but now I'm supposed to get out there。
and do it, man.。
I dreaded moments like these.。
'Cause I didn't feel capable.。
I didn't feel worthy.。
I didn't honestly want to share the gospel.。
I was quite content knowing God。
and letting someone else make him known.。
So why does God choose to use you and me。
to share the good news?。
Like, this is hard.。
I know I'm an introvert.。
I mean, this is part of my story.。
This is a hard thing.。
And I also know that God could do this some other way.。
Like, he could write it in the sky.。
Believe in my son for the forgiveness of your sins。
and life everlasting.。
Like, he could put it up there in plain English.。
So why does he choose to use you and me?。
Well, why do we share about anything?。
The answer is easy.。
Because we think it's great.。
That's why we share about things.。
We believe they're great.。
That's why you talk about your spin class。
or that new restaurant or the show you're watching.。
You think it's really great.。
And as you shared, you believe that other people。
will think it's great as well.。
It's easy why we share.。
A better question is why does God want us to share?。
Why does he want us to?。
And I believe this is the thing that's so amazing.。
Because when we consider the answer to that question,。
it reveals the state of our affections for him.。
See, there's no question.。
Does God want me to share the gospel?。
No, there's no question.。
The question instead is,。
why don't I want to tell other people the gospel?。
Which is a really heavy thing to consider.。
And yet it's a really amazing thing to process.。
Because God in his kindness,。
I just think this is brilliant.。
He has chosen to use you and me。
to tell the world about Jesus。
rather than some other method。
because he knows in so doing,。
he will expose what the state of our love for him is.。
He leads us into places of evangelism。
and causes us to consider whether we do。
or we do not want to share this good news,。
that it might trigger a spiritual check engine light。
on the dashboard of your heart,。
that you might willingly see it pop the hood。
and evaluate, God, what's wrong with me?。
Why don't I want to tell others of you?。
Like God's heart for evangelism,。
it's not to make this whole thing feel like a tour duty。
or time to serve.。
Like he's not trying to obligate you into working for him.。
That's not his objective.。
It's not a, I did my part, now you better do yours.。
That's not his end.。
No, he calls us to share the hope of Jesus。
because in the process of doing it,。
it regularly reveals how much we love him.。
Then here's the crazy thing.。
And I need you to hear this。
because it's masterful from the master.。
He wants you so much, longs for your heart so much。
that he would implement a strategy。
to expose whether you want him in return.。
And if the answer to that question is no,。
then the solution to that answer is what?。
Then tell yourself the good news。
of a God who would seek and save even the likes of you.。
Before you tell others, tell yourself.。
You be reminded.。
Have your affections grown cold?。
Then repeat the story of a God that would save anybody.。
And let your affections blaze once again.。
How do I know that this is the way God's working。
as he tells us to go out and to fulfill the great commission,。
to proclaim the good news,。
to share the hope we have in Jesus?。
How do I know, man?。
Like, how am I so confident。
that he so badly wants to be connected to you。
that he would do this,。
that he would implement a strategy。
that would expose whether we want him in return?。
Because he sent his son at a time。
when we did not want him,。
yet he wanted us anyways.。
This is the gospel that Jesus Christ came。
and he sought after a people that did not love。
nor were willing to return the kind of affection。
he so freely lavished upon them.。
Like Jesus is a God come man that was so devoted to us。
that he considered us his first priority,。
not his last resort.。
Like all along he's seen you and he said,。
you're my first, you're my choice pick.。
You're not the one that I guess I'm gonna settle for。
'cause they said, no, I can have whoever I want。
and I want all people to come to me.。
And so I'm coming to you, I'm moving to you,。
I'm devoted to you 'cause I want to bring you home.。
But he's not just devoted to us,。
he also walks towards us.。
Like when we were not on the inside, but on the outside,。
Jesus walked towards us and with love in his heart,。
he walked past us and up Calvary's Hill。
where we ourselves were meant to walk.。
And it's not just that he would walk towards,。
it's also that he would speak grace to us.。
That as he hung upon that cross。
and he stared down at a people。
that wanted nothing to do with the likes of him,。
he would speak these words, father, forgive them.。
They do not know what they are doing.。
How do you change the world?。
You pray, you walk and you speak.。
And the reason we know this is the case。
is because Christ himself has done the same for you and me.。
Let me pray for us.。
Father,。
I pray that there would be no mistake in this room, God,。
just how badly you want for us.。
So badly, God, does your heart burn。
for the people in this room.。
That you would send your one and only son。
to do what we could not, to live life so very perfectly.。
Yet not only that, he also bore the death we deserve, God,。
the wages of sin is death.。
And yet he said, I will go in your place.。
I will die your death.。
I will take the hit.。
And he rose forth from that grave.。
And as he did, so he said,。
and because I have done all of these things,。
believe in me and come with me where I am.。
Be with me for all eternity.。
Everything else is a waste.。
It's all going to wash.。
It's all going to rubbish.。
But not you, if only you place your faith in me,。
you go on forever.。
We go on forever.。
God, I pray that you would move here in this space.。
As we come God here to the last song,。
I just ask that we would just have。
an honest moment with you.。
So often we come into this room and for some of us, God,。
I know 'cause I myself was the same.。
We just put on a front.。
We keep up the show.。
We play the part and yet God tonight, right now,。
this moment can be honest and authentic and real.。
For you God are honest and authentic and real。
in your love for us, God.。
We love you.。
We rejoice God for we have reason to rejoice.。
The Christian life has a happy ending.。
And it's all because of the name of Jesus.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
