As I went down in the river to pray, Studying about the good old way,。
And who shall wear the starry crown, Good Lord, show me the way.。
O sinners, let's go down, Let's go down, don't you want to come down.。
O sinners, let's go down, Down in the river to pray.。
Come on.。
Man, it's good to have you here in the room or online tonight, Tuesday night.。
And it's special for me because this is my first time being here in Dallas。
officially as a part of the porch team as the director of discipleship.。
And I'm just so honored.。
You know, my family and I about a month ago made the trek from Houston, Texas。
to the promised land, Dallas, Texas.。
More people whooped for Houston than Dallas.。
Okay.。
Hey, here's a picture of my family.。
My name's Tyler, by the way.。
Here's my family that's coming, I believe, here in a minute.。
Oh, there they are.。
And that's my wife, Jen, and then my daughter, Emery K.,。
my son, Ty, who's holding the coconut or whatever that is,。
and then Malachi.。
We call him the Malachi Kalachi.。
And, man, we're just so glad to be a part of this family.。
And thank you for welcoming us in.。
Thank you for those of you who are here, and thank you for those who are。
tuning in all across the country and the Porch Live locations.。
Man, we're just so glad that you're here.。
Hey, one thing I want to say that I've just been -- as I've been thinking about。
tonight, you know, sometimes I remember sitting in the seat that you're sitting。
in, and sometimes I would wonder, hey, that guy that's up on the stage,。
is he the real deal?。
Is he just playing some game, kind of manipulating people,。
and you make your judgment about me.。
But I just want to say something about the man who's typically up here,。
my friend for years, Kylan.。
And I've known Kylan beyond stages.。
I've seen him at high highs, and I've seen him at low lows.。
I just want to say to those of you who call the porch home that the man that。
you think Kylan is is who he is.。
This man, I have watched him weep in prayer on his face on behalf of revival。
across our country.。
On behalf of you, he may not know your name, but he's praying and begging God。
to move in your heart.。
And I just want -- one of the reasons why I'm here is to be an adrenaline shot。
for his ministry, to go, God is working in Kylan Perry's life,。
and it's just an honor to come alongside him.。
So can we just thank this to show honor to Kylan.。
Man, thank you.。
[Applause]。
Hey, if you have a Bible, go ahead and open up your Bible to 1 Kings.。
I don't know when the last time you were in 1 Kings, but we're going there tonight.。
1 Kings Chapter 19.。
No big deal if you need to use your table of contents to get there.。
1 Kings Chapter 19.。
And as you're turning there, I want to tell you one of the best pieces of advice。
that I've ever received in my life.。
And that piece of advice is that all frustration in your life is rooted。
in unmet expectation.。
I'm going to say that again.。
All frustration in your life is rooted in unmet expectation.。
So I want to ask this tonight.。
As you look back on your life, has there been a season of frustration。
that you remember living through, some of you are living through it now,。
that you can look back and say that season was marked by unmet expectation?。
You know, I've been thinking about my life this week, and I thought about。
back when I was in college, and I was a finance major, okay?。
And I remember sitting -- yeah, finance bros in the room, come on, yeah.。
That's awesome.。
Well, I remember being in class with you guys, okay?。
And y'all are geeking out about assets and liabilities and P/E ratios。
and Patagonia sweaters, you know.。
And all the while, I'm getting into it, but I really started to feel this。
passion in my heart for ministry of all things.。
And I'm reading the Bible, and I'm discipling guys in my fraternity,。
and I'm going, "Oh, no.。
I think I may be called into this thing, like, for my life."。
And so I ended up kind of on a whim applying for this year-long residency。
at a church up here in Dallas called the Village Church.。
And somehow they let me in.。
And so that started in August.。
So I graduated in May.。
That started in August, so I had the summer, and I went and found a。
three-month internship with student ministry with middle schoolers.。
And while I'm there, just snot-nosed, middle school, running all around,。
while I'm there, the youth pastor actually leaves to go be a lead pastor。
of a church, and that church offered me the job to be youth pastor.。
So I'm conflicted.。
I'm like, "Do I take this full-time job, or do I go and be a resident。
for a year at the Village?"。
And I remember one Tuesday night praying, "Oh, God, make it clear.。
Like, what am I supposed to do?"。
Then Wednesday rolls around, and there's a middle school event.。
And I'm at the middle school event, just hanging out, you know,。
handing out pizza or whatever.。
And I get three wet willies in my ear from middle school kids.。
You know what wet willies are?。
You lick your finger and put it in your ear.。
And after the third wet willie, I was like, "I am a finance major。
at Texas A&M.。
I should not be getting wet willies."。
Oh, my gosh.。
Okay.。
Some of you love that.。
The majority of you hate it, okay?。
But after the third wet willie, I had made up my mind.。
I'm not doing student ministry.。
That era is done.。
I'm moving on to adults at the Village.。
This is going to be better.。
So I respectfully decline.。
I move up to Dallas.。
I start the residency.。
And pretty early on, I realize, "Oh, I'm like the bottom of the food chain here.。
I'm just doing all the behind-the-scenes work."。
But I finally got a meeting with one of the executive staff,。
one of the big names, not Chandler, okay, but another one.。
And I finally said it for months later.。
And the meeting comes the day before.。
I'm in Houston.。
And it floods in Houston.。
And I can't make it back to Dallas.。
So I have to message this guy, "Hey, I'm so sorry.。
I can't make the meeting.。
Can we postpone?"。
He goes, "Okay."。
Sets it for a month later.。
I wait a month.。
No joke.。
I'm back in Dallas.。
And a hailstorm hits the night before.。
And the power goes out.。
And I sleep through my alarm and miss the breakfast meeting.。
And I call him.。
I go, "I'm so sorry.。
I'm on my way."。
He goes, "Tyler, don't worry about it.。
We're not going to meet."。
And I find out later.。
Okay, the Village Church is Matt Chandler.。
If you've heard of Chandler, I've looked up to Chandler my whole life.。
This guy goes and tells Chandler, "Tyler Moffat, that guy's a moron."。
That's what he said.。
I found out later.。
I'm crushed, just like, "Ugh!"。
Last part of the story.。
Three-fourths of the way through the residency, my boss sits me down.。
He says, "Hey, Tyler, as we've been kind of analyzing you and as we've been。
really thinking about your gift set, we've determined that you would fit。
better in student ministry."。
And I'm like, "Ugh!"。
And I just remember going home.。
I'm just being honest with 2,000 of my favorite friends.。
I remember driving home.。
I was frustrated.。
I had all these expectations for ministry that I was going to be a part。
of changing the world and jumping in on some big, massive revival,。
teaching big crowds, and I'm stuck with middle schoolers.。
And I remember as I was in that place, all the zeal that I had for ministry。
just evaporated.。
I'm just being honest.。
And I'm curious for you tonight, as we have this revival series,。
if you've been tracking with us, we've been talking about this kind of。
statistics are showing that there's this quiet revival that's going through。
our country and more and more people are returning to God.。
They're returning to Christianity, specifically among young adults.。
And it's exciting.。
And you go, "Oh, this is amazing."。
And then some of us, like me, right out of college, you look at your life。
and you go, "That's great, but that's not what I'm feeling in my life。
right now."。
And tonight, what we're going to do is we're going to talk about。
specifically zeal that persists, that lasts through the mountaintop。
and the valley.。
How do you have a passion for God, a zeal for God that goes beyond。
just the mountaintop, camp-high moments, but even in the low part,。
you go, "I'm still red-hot in my passion for God."。
How do you get that?。
That's where we're going to look at.。
Here's the definition of zeal as we're looking at it today.。
Here's how we define it.。
Zeal is an energetic pursuit and unwavering commitment to God.。
How do you get that?。
That's where we're going to look at.。
Let me pray, and then we're going to dig into 1 Kings 19.。
God, we just--we really, like the songs we just sang, we really want。
to commune with you, the God of the highlands and the God。
of the valleys.。
God, you are not hiding from us.。
You want to reveal yourself to us, and so, God, we are asking,。
"Please come."。
Oh, God, we long for an encounter with you tonight, and maybe it's a big。
fanfare moment of emotional excitement for you, or maybe, maybe it's the。
still small whisper of knowing that you are real, you are good,。
and you see us and have a plan for our lives.。
Oh, Jesus, we just want you.。
We long for you, and it's in your name we pray.。
Amen.。
All right, 1 Kings 19, a little background.。
Elijah, this is the story of Elijah, and Elijah's the prophet in the midst。
of a godless society, and yet, Elijah's greatest goal is to see Israel。
revived.。
Like, he wants what our series has been about.。
He wants to see revival break out among his nation, and yet, there's a。
problem.。
The king and the queen are evil, not just like a little evil, like the。
worst evil that Israel has ever seen.。
It's Ahab, who you've maybe heard about, and he's married to his。
beautiful wife, Jezebel, okay?。
And Jezebel says, "Hey, the national religion in Israel is now。
Baal worship."。
And all the people just go, "Okay," and they go into Baal worship, and。
they're all sacrificing against God.。
And so, Elijah, the first thing he does is he prays that God would cause。
a drought on the land.。
And you go, "Why would he do that?"。
And the reason is because back in Deuteronomy chapter 28, it said,。
"There are blessings for your obedience.。
There are curses for your disobedience."。
One of the main ones is drought.。
If the Israelites were paying attention to their Torah, to the Bible, they。
should know, uh-oh, drought equals God is punishing us.。
We should return to him, and yet, they miss it.。
So then, in chapter 18, Elijah goes nuclear.。
Then he says, "All right, here's what we're doing.。
Your prophets versus Yahweh's prophet.。
450 prophets of Baal versus one prophet of Yahweh.。
We're having a showdown on Mount Carmel."。
And the whole town shows up, and the 450 prophets of Baal are dancing。
around their idol, trying to get their God to send down fire.。
Nothing for hours.。
And Elijah's making fun of them.。
He's like, "Oh, maybe your God's using the bathroom."。
This is in the Bible.。
He's like, "Maybe he's asleep.。
Maybe if you cheer louder, he'll wake up."。
Nothing.。
And then Elijah says, "All right."。
He puts water on his altar.。
He prays, and he says this in chapter 18, verse 36.。
He says, "Oh, Lord, let it be known to you this day that you are God in Israel。
and that I am your servant and that they have turned their heart back to you."。
He says, "I, more than anything else, I will have a zeal for you,。
and I want to see the return."。
And fire comes down from heaven.。
And after fire comes down, the 450 prophets of Baal are killed by the people.。
And then this is what Elijah does.。
He runs to Jezreel where the king and the queen are.。
He runs.。
He hightails it, and he says, "I want to watch this revival play out.。
It's going to be amazing."。
Because either the king and the queen are going to see this and repent,。
or the people are going to cause an uprising and kick them out.。
The status quo cannot stay the same.。
And yet look what happens in 1 Kings chapter 19, verse 1.。
Look at this.。
So all that has just happened, 19, verse 1.。
"Ahab, the king, told Jezebel, the beautiful queen, all that Elijah had done。
and how he had killed all the prophets with the sword.。
Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah saying, 'Revival is breaking out.'"。
No.。
"So may the gods do to me and more also,。
if I do not make your life as the life of one of them,"。
one of these prophets that you killed, "by this time tomorrow.'。
Then Elijah was afraid, and he arose and ran for his life。
and came to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah,。
and he left his servant there," verse 4.。
"But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness。
and came and sat down under a broom tree."。
Look at this.。
"And he asked that he might die, saying, 'It is enough.。
Now, O Lord, take away my life, for I am no better than my fathers.'"。
Okay, what's going on here?。
Elijah, all his expectations, everything that he expected God to do are unmet,。
and he's incredibly frustrated to the point where he says, "I'm done.。
I'm done being your prophet.。
I'm done trying to live some life for you.。
Kill me.。
If you have any mercy, God, kill me because I'm just done.。
It's enough.。
I'm no better than anybody else," and he's just ready to die.。
And I'm curious, have you been here?。
You know, I was just thinking, writing down some things.。
You know, maybe some of you were expecting things to end in marriage,。
and yet instead you got the text from that person that said,。
"I hope we can still stay friends," right?。
And you're going, "What?"。
Like my whole expectation was this was going somewhere.。
Everything that they were communicating seemed like this was heading the right direction,。
and then you're just going to say, "Let's just be friends.。
I don't want to be with you anymore."。
What?。
Some of you moved halfway across the country to Dallas or wherever。
to be a part of a job that you're passionate about and your calling is,。
and you move here, and you're sitting in traffic on 635 in 110-degree heat going,。
"Really?。
This is the rest of my life?。
This is it?"。
You know, some of you made it through that recovery program.。
It was incredibly embarrassing, incredibly difficult, but you beat it。
only to find yourself a few months later in the same crap that you just got yourself out of.。
So you thought.。
This is very relatable.。
Where Elijah is right now is where we often are in life.。
So what does God do?。
The rest of our time together, we're just going to see with our own eyes。
what does God do to the one who is expecting great things and is incredibly frustrated.。
And we're going to see God doesn't freak out, but he starts the work of restoring Elijah's zeal.。
In fact, God does three things.。
God does three things to restore Elijah's zeal, and the first one is this.。
First one is we see that God cares for the body as well as the soul.。
God cares for the body as well as the soul.。
Let's look in 1 Kings 19, starting in verse 5.。
So all this had just happened.。
He says, "God, kill me," verse 5, "and he, Elijah, lay down and slept under a broom tree.。
And behold, an angel touched him and said, 'Arise and eat.'。
And he looked, and behold, there was at his head a cake baked on hot stones and a jar of water.。
And he ate and drank and lay down again.。
And the angel of the Lord came again a second time and touched him and said, 'Arise and eat,。
for the journey is too great for you.'。
And he arose and ate and drank and went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights。
to Horeb, the mount of God."。
So notice, the first thing that God does to Elijah, his prophet saying, "Just kill me,"。
the first thing God does is nothing.。
It's nothing.。
There's no lecture.。
There's no counseling.。
There's no therapy.。
All God does is send Dordash, angel version, okay?。
And literally the angel touches him.。
I mean, I'm just thinking of this scene, like Elijah's like, "Oh, kill me,"。
and the angel pops up and is like, "Hey, buddy, you know, have a snack."。
Like, that's just what happens.。
And he's like, "Oh, I could use a snack."。
And there's this weird exchange.。
Angel having a snack.。
He's like, "Go to sleep, buddy.。
Here's a blanket," you know?。
And he sleeps under this tree, and we're reading this like, "Oh, yeah."。
And then it happens again.。
The same thing.。
He wakes up.。
He's like, "Oh, where am I?。
Here, have a scone," you know?。
And here's what's so interesting.。
This is why I love the Bible.。
It's such a great book.。
The Bible realizes how human beings are made.。
God knows.。
He's intricately -- He knows how you're wired, how you're made.。
And in the moment of frustration, you're at your wits' end,。
you're at the suicidal point of depression.。
God goes, "You know what?。
I'm not coming bringing you a lecture first.。
I'm coming bringing you a snack and some food and a nap."。
Elijah didn't need a sermon.。
He needed sleep.。
And sometimes the most spiritual thing that we can do is take a nap.。
Hallelujah, somebody, right?。
Now, here's what's important.。
I'm not talking about self-care here, right?。
We kind of live in that culture of like self-care, care about yourself,。
and that's great, but that's not what I'm talking about.。
Here's the reality.。
Some of you are blaming God.。
You are angry at God for the circumstances in your life when the reality is the。
way you have wired your schedule and your habits is burning you out.。
And it's killing you.。
And God is saying, "Stop it.。
Slow down.。
Eat a snack.。
Go to bed.。
Stop doom scrolling on your phone for two hours and then waking up。
and going, 'I don't have time to spend with you.'"。
And you're like, "Really?"。
Maybe your habits, your lack of sleep, the way that you're exercising or not,。
all those things are feeding what's going on in you.。
Martin Lloyd-Jones, who was a medical doctor before he became a pastor,。
said this.。
He said, "You cannot isolate the spiritual from the physical,。
for we are body, mind, and spirit.。
The greatest and best Christians, when they are physically weak,。
are more prone to an attack of spiritual depression than at any other time."。
And there are great illustrations of this in the Scriptures.。
The reality is we are body, we are mind, and we are spirit.。
And God is the creator of all things, of all three.。
We're embodied souls.。
And so we're not going to spend a ton of time on this,。
but some of you, you've lost your zeal for God.。
And you're blaming God, and you're blaming community, and you're angry.。
And the reality is your rhythms, your habits are out of whack.。
And God, like Elijah, will start in your life there.。
You know, for me, so my wife and I, three kids,。
a little different season than most of you, but at the end, we do dinner time.。
We play and wrestle, get a black eye from my 2-year-old.。
Then we give them a bath.。
We put them down.。
And then my wife nurses our youngest.。
And I kind of clean the kitchen.。
If Jen's watching, I clean the kitchen.。
And I just kind of relax and turn off my brain.。
I've been doing this thing where I pull up the YouTube shorts, okay?。
So it's not Reels.。
It's not TikTok, okay?。
But it got me.。
YouTube shorts got me.。
And it's action film scenes that I've never seen that I don't care about,。
but I'm like, "Oh," you know, and I'm watching.。
Or it's random politicians yelling about things.。
I don't even know what they're yelling about, but I'm, "Oh," you know.。
And I just glued into this, and I spend an hour barely doing anything in the kitchen.。
Then Jen's like, "Come on, are we going to hang out?"。
I'm like, "Oh, yeah."。
Then I get the kitchen.。
Then I'm so exhausted.。
Then I wake up late, you know, because I went to bed late.。
Then I'm rushing in the morning.。
Then I'm getting to work.。
And it's like, wow, this has become a routine in my life.。
And I didn't even -- I wasn't, like, trying.。
It just came upon me.。
And some of you, this is happening in your life.。
I was writing down, you know, some of you -- we don't talk about this a lot,。
but maybe it's video games.。
Come on.。
Come on.。
Some of you, you're like, "It's my community, man."。
And you stay up until 3 a.m. with your community, man, playing video games,。
which I have nothing against, but I'm just saying you're doing that.。
And people who care about you in your life are like, "Hey, maybe that's too much."。
And you're like, "Stop it!"。
Right?。
And you don't let them in.。
And I'm going, God, maybe like Elijah, would go, "Hey, hey, hey,。
let's start with the video games."。
Right?。
Doesn't sound spiritual.。
You know, some of you, it's your friends, it's your girlfriends, right?。
And they always get you with that text of like, "Hey, you want to take a sweet trip?"。
Right?。
Uh-oh, heading home.。
And you know, I already brushed my teeth, right?。
But you fall for it every time, and you're going because the memes, right?。
And I got to lock back in, Kylan.。
But you fall for it.。
And here's all I'm saying.。
We're going to move on to the next point.。
Here's what I'm saying.。
Sometimes your zeal that you want to blame on God's just not present.。
The first thing, the first thing is analyzing, taking a diagnosis of your。
life and your habits and going, "Where am I out of whack?"。
And God wants to meet us there first.。
God cares about the body as well as the soul.。
That's the first thing.。
Number two, what does God do to restore the zeal in Elijah just like he does with us?。
Number two is God offers his presence in the silence.。
So God deals with him by going after his physiology.。
But then what he does is he offers his presence in the silence.。
Let's pick it up in verse 8.。
So look again at verse 8.。
We read this before, but look at it again.。
It says, "And he arose and ate and drank and went in the strength of that food。
40 days and 40 nights to Horeb, the Mount of God.。
And there he came to a cave," take note of that, "and lodged in it."。
He's doing a lot of sleeping.。
Found a cave, he's sleeping.。
"And behold, the word of the Lord came to him and said to him, 'What are you。
doing here, Elijah?'。
And he said," in verse 10, he's got his speech, "I have been very jealous for the。
Lord, the God of hosts.。
For the people of Israel have forsaken your covenant, thrown down your altars,。
killed your prophets with the sword, and I, even I only, am left.。
And they seek my life to take it away.。
And God said, 'Go out, get out of the cave, and stand on the mount before the。
Lord.' And behold, the Lord passed by, and a great and strong wind tore the。
mountains and broke in pieces the rocks before the Lord.。
But the Lord was not in the wind.。
And after the wind an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake.。
And after the earthquake a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire.。
And after the fire the sound of a low whisper.。
And when Elijah heard it, he wrapped his face in his cloak and went out and stood。
at the entrance of the cave."。
Do you catch what God said at the beginning?。
So Elijah goes, he finds a cave, he goes to the cave, and God says, "What are you。
doing here?"。
I was just thinking about each of you tonight.。
I just wonder if God were to come to you right now in your seat here at the。
porch, and were to say, "Hey, what are you doing here?"。
What would you say to him?。
I mean, I'm serious.。
What would you say to God?。
Would you say, man, if you were honest, like gut level honest, you say, "Man, I'm。
just kind of lonely in this season of life."。
And to be honest, to just be in a place where there are other young adults would。
be amazing.。
Some of you, if you were honest, you're like, "Man, the bar's not the best place。
to find a lover, so the porch is where I'm at."。
You know?。
I mean, that's where you're here.。
And some of you, if you're honest, you've got that longing, like, "Man, God, I。
really want to meet with you."。
Like that music where you're singing, like, "I just want to."。
But what is it?。
See, here's the deal.。
God comes with those words to Elijah, and Elijah has his speech ready.。
And he's ticked.。
You can hear it in this.。
He goes, "Man, you want to know why I'm here?。
Because I was jealous for you," which is the Hebrew word for zealous.。
"I was passionate about you, and I went and I long-suffering loved on these。
people and was with them, and nothing, nothing.。
I'm the only one, God, who still loves you.。
Everybody else has forsaken you.。
I'm the only one left.。
You want to know why I'm here?。
That's why."。
And God's like, "That's cute.。
That's awesome."。
He says, "Then think about this."。
He goes, "You want to actually experience me?"。
Now, Elijah, he's ticked.。
He's in his cave, you know.。
"You want to experience me?"。
He's like, "Okay," you know.。
Now, here's the deal.。
He's at Mount Horeb, which you go, "Big, big deal.。
I don't know Mount Horeb."。
Mount Horeb has another name.。
It's Mount Sinai.。
This is the same mountain where Moses met God.。
And Moses goes, "God, I want to see you."。
And God says, "You can't see me?。
Are you kidding me?。
You'll die.。
But if you hide in this cave behind the cleft of this rock,。
you can see my back."。
But now God's saying to Elijah, "Come out of the cave and。
experience me."。
And Elijah all of a sudden is going, "Oh, man.。
What even Moses couldn't do, I can do."。
And it's the fanfare you would expect.。
A tornado rips through like DFW.。
It's just, "Whoa," you know, rolling.。
He's like, "Oh, this is God."。
And it rolls past.。
He's like, "Man, God wasn't there."。
And then all of a sudden an earthquake starts.。
He's like, "Oh, it's the earthquake."。
And God's not there.。
And then fire, like he saw at Mount Carmel, begins to come.。
And God's not there.。
And then all of a sudden there's a low whisper.。
What Hebrews says is like a still silence.。
And it's in the still silence after all that's passed, God's there.。
And he wraps himself and he goes and appears before God.。
And, you know, it's interesting in light of Elijah's story, he was。
expecting the big fanfare.。
God, if you're real, show off like you're God.。
And he saw Mount Carmel and he saw the drought.。
He was part of raising a young boy from the dead.。
And yet all of those things passed and it didn't bring revival.。
And now God's going, "Look, I work in those big things.。
I move in power."。
When the Holy Spirit comes at Pentecost, it's a breath, it's a wind.。
When God speaks to Moses in the burning bush, it's a fire.。
And yet the normal day-to-day way that God speaks is through a gentle,。
soft whisper.。
And the question that God's asking Elijah is the question he's asking us。
in 2025.。
Are you willing to meet with me in the whisper?。
Are you willing to meet with me when the fanfare all goes away?。
When the camp high is gone?。
When the breakup happens?。
When you lose the job?。
Are you willing in that place of brokenness to go, "God, you feel。
really distant right now.。
But even in the quiet, I want you."。
And I think, I mean, God has moved in power throughout the Bible and he's。
moved in power throughout history in massive moves of revival.。
But I believe that if God was going to move in powerful nationwide revival。
today, it would start in solitude.。
It would start with a group of young adults going, "This whole thing is。
great, but what I'm most hungry for, oh, just give me some space alone。
with God."。
And so why do you think Satan attacks the secret place, the silent place。
most?。
Have you ever tried to just get away alone in the quiet with God?。
Have you ever tried?。
Your mind starts racing, people start distracting you, your phone blows up.。
It's like all of a sudden your mother -- you don't have a mother-in-law,。
but your mom, you know, starts like really bugging you about all kinds of。
things and you're like, "What, Mom?。
I'm trying to get some alone time," right?。
And it's because Satan's working through your mom, maybe not, but, you。
know, but you know it's that place God's trying to attack.。
Here's the reality.。
If you try to meet with God in the silence, it's hard, but God is there.。
I remember the first time that I was single before I was married, I went out。
into the woods to put my phone away, just my Bible and a journal.。
I was like, "God, I just want you to meet with me."。
I'm like, "Come on, silence, alone time, this is going to be amazing."。
I remember sitting down, opening up my journal, I'm starting to write.。
I'm just looking around like, "God, you're so awesome.。
Man, look at the birds and the trees.。
And why am I still single?。
And God, what's the little joke going on with my job?"。
And all of a sudden it just got dark, you know, like --。
And the reality is we so often suppress what we're really feeling with noise.。
And when we do that, we miss God in the silence.。
And I have a million more things to say on this, but in Christianity today,。
we're just obsessed with hype.。
We just are.。
And I think there's some of us, there's a remnant of you in here who go,。
"Hey, I'm good with hype.。
I'm not a hater on that stuff.。
I just -- man, where's the place where I can just be alone with God?"。
And I really believe that when that starts happening, revival will break out.。
Tyler Staten says, "Prayer is a journey that starts with need,。
but it ends with relationship."。
You start coming to God with, "I need, I need, I need,"。
and then all of a sudden you begin to meet with God in relationship and silence.。
When you really love someone, you don't need to be talking.。
You want to, but there are times just being together is enough.。
And God goes, "Is that enough?。
Is it enough to just be with you?"。
The first thing is God cares for the body as well as the soul.。
If you've lost your zeal, start there.。
The second is God offers his presence in the silence.。
And number three is God reveals he's working in ways we can't see.。
He's working in ways that we can't see.。
Let's pick it up and read the rest.。
So let's start in the second half of verse 13.。
It says, "And behold, there came a voice to him, to Elijah,。
and he asked again, 'What are you doing here, Elijah?'。
And Elijah said his same speech again.。
'I have been very jealous for the Lord, the God of hosts,。
for the people of Israel have forsaken your covenant,。
thrown down your altars, killed your prophets with the sword,。
and I, even I only am left, and they seek to take away--。
and they seek my life to take it away.'。
And the Lord said to him," this is interesting.。
This will go over your head if you're just reading it.。
He says, "Go, return on your way where you came from。
to the wilderness of Damascus.。
And when you arrive, you shall anoint Hazael to be king over Syria,。
and Jehu, the son of Nimshi, you shall appoint to be king over Israel.。
And Elisha, the son of Shaphab of Abel-mehola,。
you shall anoint to be prophet in your place.。
And the one who escapes from the sword of Hazael shall Jehu put to death,。
and the one who escapes from the sword of Jehu shall Elisha put to death."。
Verse 18, "Yet I will leave 7,000 in Israel,。
all the knees that have not bowed to Baal,。
and every mouth that has not kissed him."。
So God asked Elijah the same question again,。
and I've wondered, why did God do this?。
Is it because he didn't understand Elijah's answer the first time?。
Is it that Elijah got the wrong--he said the wrong thing?。
And I think it's that God's testing his heart.。
Hey, did my experience--did your encounter with me in the silence change?。
And we see it didn't. He's still stubborn.。
And so God takes a different approach this time.。
And this is what he does with us.。
If you're in a suicidal, depressed time where you're just, "I'm just done. I'm just done."。
God doesn't come going, "Well, get up!" He starts with care.。
Then he moves to an experience of his presence.。
And then he hits him with the hard truth.。
The reality is Elijah had fled south to Jezreel,。
and now God says, "No, I want you to go back to where you came from,。
and I want you to anoint a pagan king,。
and I want you to find your replacement,。
which are relatively normal things for a prophet to do."。
So he basically says, "Hey, I want you to go back from where you came from,。
and I want you to do normal prophet things."。
No fanfare, no credit, just what you're supposed to do.。
And it's as though God is saying, "Hey, yeah, I do the Mount Carmel thing,。
but it's not how I normally work.。
I work and I speak in the midst of your normal life.。
I am working in ways that you can't see."。
You know, it's interesting.。
God is working in ways that we can't see。
and that oftentimes it takes perspective later for us to see it.。
You know, I think back to my story at the beginning,。
and when I went to youth ministry,。
so I was transferred from adult ministry to youth ministry,。
and I was embarrassed at the beginning, and then something happened.。
As I began to love on these middle school kids, my life came back.。
You know, I began to teach the Bible,。
and they're throwing paper airplanes in the back and picking their nose,。
and I loved it, you know, and I began to disciple them and watch them grow.。
And then I got a job in grapevine as a high school pastor, and I loved it.。
And then fast forward to a few years ago.。
So I've left that job. I'm down in Houston.。
I get a call from one of my former students who says, "Hey, I'm engaged,。
and I'm about to get married to a girl who was in the youth group,"。
and he said, "Will you officiate our wedding?"。
I'm like, "Oh, man, that's awesome."。
So I drive up to Dallas, and I go there for the rehearsal,。
and I see that, you know, when we do the rehearsal,。
she's supposed to walk down with her dad,。
and she's walking down the aisle alone in the rehearsal.。
I'm like, "Hey, what's going on there?"。
She said, "Hey, basically some things happened with my dad,。
and he's not going to be at the wedding.。
He's kind of deserted our family in this season."。
I was heartbroken for her.。
And afterwards, I said, I pulled her aside.。
I'm like, "Hey, no pressure, but would you be okay if I walk you down the aisle?"。
Little tears just started welling up in her eyes,。
and she just said, "I would love that."。
The craziest thing happens, and the next day it's the day of the wedding,。
and my daughter is the flower girl, which was cute, you know,。
and we're in the back.。
The groomsmen have gone out.。
The bridesmaids have gone out, and it's just me and my flower girl daughter。
and this bride, my former student.。
I remember looking at her.。
Now and then I got tears in my eyes.。
She's got tears, and I just look at her and go, "You are so beautiful,。
and I'm so proud of you."。
And I started walking this girl down the aisle in the church。
where I was a youth pastor.。
And I just in that moment was so surreal,。
but it was like God was looking down, and he was just going, "See? See?"。
So you couldn't see it.。
When you were a youth pastor just ordering another round of pizza,。
just dealing with another dramatic high schooler and all their issues,。
just dealing with another parent yelling at you about how someone --。
What you can't see, Tyler, is one day -- stay faithful, man.。
One day you're going to be able to walk one of these girls down the aisle。
and make her day being a father figure for her in this moment.。
You can't see it, but stay faithful, man.。
There's perspective if you keep going.。
And I just tell you, some of you, you've lost your zeal going,。
"This is pointless, and I'm going."。
I promise you on the authority of the Bible,。
if you stay tethered to God, and you remember,。
"He's doing something I can't see,"。
then I promise one day when perspective hits,。
either on this life or the life to come, you'll see it.。
You'll see the picture that God was weaving together。
that right now in your young adult years you couldn't see.。
John Mark Comer says, "The truest sign of maturity。
is finding the goodness of God in your actual life."。
You want to know if you're mature?。
That's how you know you're mature.。
I want to end quickly with two takeaways,。
and we're going to fly here, and then we're done.。
Takeaway number one is, as we think about zeal,。
the first is we need a correct understanding of the gospel.。
If you want to have your zeal, your life, your passions restored,。
number one is you need a correct understanding of the gospel.。
The truth is Elijah was too optimistic。
and too pessimistic at the same time.。
He was too optimistic.。
He thought, "God, if you send the drought,。
if you rain down fire from heaven,。
if the people see it, then revival will break out.。
I'm sure of it." He was too optimistic.。
When it didn't happen, he was depressed,。
and he flipped over to being too pessimistic.。
That didn't work out, so then he's going, "Forget it.。
It's all done. Nothing can happen."。
He did this emotional swing, and the reality is。
the gospel goes after both.。
Tim Keller says, "The gospel is this.。
We are more sinful and flawed in ourselves。
than we ever dared believe, yet at the very same time,。
we are more loved and accepted in Jesus Christ。
than we ever dared hope."。
At the same time, our pessimism and our over-optimism。
is confronted with a man, a God-man,。
hanging on a tree that's going,。
"You are so much more broken.。
You think you're bad right now?。
Oh, I'm just so bad. You're way worse."。
A bloody Savior on a cross declares,。
"You're far worse than you even think you are,"。
and yet that bloody Savior on the cross declares to you,。
"You are far more loved than you have even the capacity。
to understand."。
You're way too optimistic of what you think of yourself.。
The gospel declares both, and then the second thing,。
the last thing, is that the fire of godly zeal。
is stoked with surrender regardless of circumstance.。
This is a lot, but this is so important.。
The fire of godly zeal is stoked with surrender。
regardless of circumstance.。
Some of you refuse to see zeal for God as an option。
because in your situation--。
because in your mind, your situation is too dark.。
It's too hard. It's too broken.。
And until my circumstance changes,。
I cannot be passionate for God.。
And I just want to tell you it's not true.。
It's not true.。
I think we have time. One last quick story.。
Man, when I was in Houston,。
I had the chance to go to a maximum security prison。
a few times.。
Not because I was the prisoner, but to visit.。
And man, as I would go, I remember the first time I went,。
I kind of was--I went begrudging.。
I was like, "Ah, I'm a pastor. I should probably do this.。
And I got to go love on all these broken people."。
And then I step into this chapel service。
of life sentence guys.。
And I saw a worshiper. You thought today was cool.。
I saw a worshiper like I've never seen.。
I start hearing each of these guys' stories,。
and I'm just blown away by their willingness。
to talk about their brokenness。
and their ability to accurately communicate。
the full extent of the gospel。
and how it's changed their life.。
And yet every guy I would meet, I'd hear their story.。
It was crazy. And then they'd go,。
"Yeah, yeah, yeah, my story's crazy,。
but you got to hear John's story."。
I'm like, "Okay." And then the next guy,。
his story's crazy. He's like, "Yeah, yeah, yeah,。
my story's crazy, but you got to hear John's story."。
I'm like, "Where's John?" You know?。
And they're like, "He's down, he's back behind。
the sound booth running slides for chapel."。
I'm like, "All right." So I go find him,。
and I'm like, "John, right?"。
He's like, "Yep." I'm like,。
"I heard you have a crazy story."。
He's like, "Oh yeah, let's go sit down."。
And so we go sit down, and John says,。
I'm gonna tell you the abbreviated version,。
but he says, "Man, Tyler, I did a lot of things wrong。
when I was young. 21 years old,。
I ended up with a life sentence in this prison.。
I'm never getting out."。
He said, "When I came here, I had a one-year-old son,。
and I loved that son with my whole life.。
I would live just for visitation to see my little buddy."。
He said, "In the course of years in this prison,。
I actually met God and surrendered my life to Jesus,。
and would just spend that time with my son。
just proclaiming the gospel to him."。
Fast forward 18 years, his son is murdered by another man.。
John's obviously heartbroken.。
And through COVID, this happened pre-COVID,。
in the midst of COVID, there was a shakeup of the prison,。
and the man who killed John's son ended up at his prison.。
And not only that, this man ended up in his cell block.。
And so John knows who this guy is.。
This guy doesn't know who John is.。
And all the guys in the cell block go,。
"Bro, we'll get you alone so you can kill him."。
John's telling me this, I'm like, "What?。
That's a crazy story, right?"。
And he goes, "Man, I remember I went up。
and I talked to this man who killed my son,。
and I said, I just started asking him questions,。
just kind of interview, you know, just like getting after him."。
And the guy finally goes, "Man, who are you?"。
And John goes, "Man, my name's John. You murdered my son."。
And the guy, little scrawny guy, goes in the corner,。
he's like, "Man, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.。
I didn't mean to all get transferred out."。
And John goes, "Hey, me and you are talking tomorrow."。
And John goes into his cell block, into his cell,。
and he gets on his face alone in the silence before God。
and pours out his heart to God.。
This is a broken man with a past。
who surrendered his life to Jesus。
on the floor of a dirty prison cell.。
God, everything in me wants to kill this man.。
Everything in me from a justice standpoint thinks it's right.。
Even my buddies in the prison, what are they going to do?。
Throw me in prison if I kill him?。
Like, this is what I'm going to do.。
He's just confronted with the God who forgave him.。
And as he's there, it's just God gently following this path,。
cared for him, met with him, spoke to him.。
And as he spoke to him, it was a reminder of,。
"John, right now in the midst of where you're at,。
I forgave you way more than what you even realize.。
You can forgive this man."。
And, "John, you must forgive this man,。
or you will be the one who dies.。
You'll be the one spending the rest of your life。
living in that vengeance.。
You must forgive."。
Next day, John goes and meets with this man.。
He says, "I'm not going to kill you.。
I'm going to tell you about someone who changed my life."。
And he shares the gospel with this man.。
This man's hardened, so John comes back the next day。
and the next day and the next day.。
And after a matter of weeks, finally, that hard shell breaks.。
And this man, he surrenders his life to Jesus,。
receives forgiveness, not only from John, but from God.。
And then over the next year, John discipled this man.。
Think about this.。
And then a year later, they transferred this man。
out of the prison, and John's telling me now in tears,。
he said, "When they transferred him out,。
it was like I was losing my own son."。
Now, I'm losing it right here in this story.。
I'm like, "What?"。
You know, and he's losing it.。
And here's why I wanted to end with that.。
I know some of you.。
Some of you, you're at the porch, you're just excited.。
This is great.。
Some of you, though, you are walking through dark, dark, dark seasons,。
and you're thinking, "There's no way.。
There is no possible way I can walk with God。
in the midst of this season and have zeal and passion for him."。
And I'm going, "I know.。
On your own strength, absolutely not.。
But with the God who worked in a dirty prison cell in John's life,。
he can work in yours.。
Don't wait for your circumstance to change.。
Surrender to a God who meets us in the still silence。
right where you're at."。
And that can happen right now, right now.。
Let's pray.。
Father, more than anything else,。
we long to encounter the still small voice.。
Yes, we want the fanfare.。
Yes, we want the hype at times.。
But there's a generation, a remnant of young adults。
who we've seen that show.。
We're not angry about it.。
There's got to be something more, and there is.。
Lord, I just pray tonight, I'm feeling this tug,。
that there's some people here who have never had that dirty cell room,。
prison cell floor moment of surrender to Jesus.。
Lord, I pray today is that day.。
No circumstance change.。
The darkness is still there.。
The silence still feels quiet.。
And yet, I need that.。
I need that.。
Lord, I pray that the gospel would ring out。
that God loved us far more than we can imagine,。
despite us being far worse than we even know.。
And Lord, would your spirit meet us right now?。
Would we see Jesus and surrender fully to him?。
Some tonight would go, "I'm in. I am all in for that."。
And they would just say simply, "Father, I receive your grace.。
I confess that I'm in such darkness right now, and I need you.。
Jesus, come. Be my sacrifice. Be my everything."。
Even in the still, small voice.。
I love you, and I trust you.。
Now we pray all this in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
you。
