Good evening and welcome to the porch. I'm here to guide you on your journey。
through the complex world of relationships. Can we cue some music。
please? From our friendships to our romantic endeavors, we'll explore our。
family bonds, estranged relationships, work dynamics, and perhaps even the。
relationship with oneself. So how do we relate? To answer this, we'll look to。
scripture and find exactly what God has to say about our relationships. This is。
After All, the Relationship Series. Porch, how we doing tonight? We doing all right?。
Good to see you. Hey, thanks so much for always making time to be with us here on。
your Tuesday evening or whatever evening it is that you're tuning in with us。
because we know so many of you are not just here in the room, though it's great。
to see all of you. Some of you are also tuning in online, especially our Porch。
Live community. Can we give it up for Porch Live? Porch, you should be amazing. Special。
shout out to Porch Live Des Moines, Porch Live Dayton, and Porch Live Greater。
Lafayette. We love you guys and we're so glad that you'd be with us. Hey, if this is。
your first time here, if you're jumping in midstream through our series right。
now, we have been journeying through, yes you guessed it, the Relationship Series.。
And what we've been doing as we've been walking through this series is we've。
been asking what is God's design for how we're meant to connect with each other?。
Not just in dating and romantic relationships, though that's very。
important, but also in all manner of relationships. The variety of different。
opportunities we have to interact with one another in life, whether it's。
friendships or it's dating or it's marriage or it's work or it's the。
relationship you have with yourself. That's the idea of this series. And。
tonight we're gonna be diving into your relationship with family. And to help us。
do it, we have invited a very special guest to teach us this evening. Before I。
tell you who it is, I do just want to lead with this. When I was considering。
whether or not I would make the move to Dallas, Texas to join the team here at。
The Porch, this individual was a big selling point for why we felt it was a。
good reason to come. Because this guy is not just intellectually acquainted with。
God, though he is, and you'll see that, he is intimately acquainted with God. He's。
deeply enchanted with the person of Jesus, and so I'm really excited for y'all。
to hear from my good friend, Dr. Orin Martin. Yes, Orin is a dear friend to me.。
He's a former professor at Southern Baptist Theological Seminary where he。
taught on theology. He also is now the senior director of equipping here at。
Watermark Community Church, and so you can learn from him yourself, not just。
tonight, but in other areas of the church as well. But before he comes up, I do just。
want to read to us the scripture that we're gonna be studying together. So if。
you have a Bible, would you turn with me to Mark chapter 3? Mark is one of the。
four Gospels that we find in the New Testament, and so if you're looking for。
it, you can turn to the New Testament. You'll see Matthew, and then you'll see。
Mark, and we're gonna be early into the book. So this is what it says in Mark。
chapter 3. If you don't have a Bible, that's okay. You can follow it on the。
screens, but Mark chapter 3, and we're gonna pick it up in verse 20. This is。
Jesus. It's saying, "Then he," talking about Jesus Christ, "went home and the crowd。
gathered again so that they could not even eat." It's a lot of people. "And when。
his family heard it, they went out to seize him, for they were saying, 'He is。
out of his mind.' And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem were saying, 'He is。
possessed by Bilzebul, and by the prince of demons he casts out the demons.' And he。
called them to him, and he said to them in parables, 'How can Satan cast out Satan?。
If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. And if a house。
is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand. And if Satan。
has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but is coming to。
an end. But no one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless。
he first binds the strong man, then indeed he may plunder his house. Truly I。
say to you, all sins will be forgiven the children of man. And whatever blasphemies。
they utter, but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has。
forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin. For they were saying, 'He has an。
unclean spirit.'" Verse 31, "And his mother and his brothers came. And standing。
outside, they sent to him and called him. And a crowd was sitting around him, and。
they said to him, 'Your mother and your brothers are outside seeking you.' And he。
answered them, 'Who are my mother and my brothers?' And looking about those who sat。
around him, he said, 'Here are my mother and my brothers. For whoever does the will。
of God, he is my brother and sister and mother.'" Let me pray for us. Well, Father,。
we're eager to learn what this Scripture has to teach us tonight, and I believe,。
Lord, that every word we just read has deep relevance for every person here。
tonight. I pray, God, that you would open our eyes to see the beauty of Christ as。
we study through this passage together. I pray, God, you would help us to know how。
we are to interact with our own families as Jesus. We are now a part of your family。
for those that place their faith in you. God, I'm so grateful for every soul here.。
Thank you, God, for my friend Orrin Martin, that he would give the time to come and。
teach us this evening. Pray that you would fill him with your Spirit, you。
would lead him along, and he would speak, God, your truth. It's in Jesus' name we。
pray. Amen. Porch, would you welcome my good friend, Dr. Orrin Martin?。
- Good evening. How are we doing? That was actually kind of a little bit weak.。
How are we doing? All right, that's better. It is so good to be here with you all.。
Kylin, welcome to everyone. So, you don't have to do all the obligatory welcome。
Porch, Porch Live, you already did that. We're thankful. So, it is not lost on me。
that we have a full room of people who are here to gather to sing God's Word, to。
hear God's Word. That is amazing, so thank you. We don't take that privilege lightly,。
and it is a joy to be able to open God's Word with you. So, as Kylin said, we are。
continuing the series on relationships. We've talked about friendships, we've。
talked about marriage. Tonight, we're talking about family. Now, there are。
probably a few in here who are not originally from Dallas. If you're not from。
Dallas, if Dallas is not your hometown, would you raise your hand? Yes, I would。
raise my hand too. That is actually more than I expected. I'm a little bit。
overwhelmed right now. I may have to go home. No, I am in that same boat with you.。
As a result, we can often, and it's very common, we can often try to find our。
family elsewhere. Where do people try to find it? Well, you may think of gyms, you。
may think of CrossFit, you might think of some kind of running clubs or book clubs.。
Maybe not book clubs, some of you are people like me. These groups often gather。
around common interests. But as Christians, those who claim the name of。
Christ, where do we find it? What does that mean for us? What does it mean for。
our natural or earthly nuclear families? Well, our passage tonight helps us answer。
these questions. Before we do that, I know Kylin prayed, but just from my own heart,。
would you just join me in prayer real quick? I'm going to pray actually from Psalm。
123. To you, O Lord, we lift up our eyes. Lord, we confess that oftentimes we lift。
up our eyes and we just see obstacles, we see conflict, we see difficulties, we see。
suffering. And so, Lord, we acknowledge that it's good to lift up our eyes。
because it is you who are enthroned in the heavens. You reign above it all.。
Behold, as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their master, as the eyes of a。
maid servant to the hand of her mistress. O God, our eyes look to you, to the Lord,。
our God, till you have mercy on us. So we ask, Lord, tonight that you would have。
mercy on us, O Lord, that you would have mercy on us. Lift our eyes to see Jesus。
in all of his glory and beauty and splendor. Fix our eyes on him. And it's in。
his name that I ask. Amen. Well, let me just tell you a little bit about myself.。
I was raised, born and raised in Houston, Texas. That's what I love to hear.。
I had a wonderful family and I was so thankful for the gift that the Lord gave。
me in the gift of my parents who were believers, my older sister, who I guess。
I'm thankful for. I mean, as younger brothers, do we have to be thankful for。
our older sister? Yes, I have a wonderful sister. If you're listening, Shiloh, I。
love you, even though you've scarred me for life. When I was 18 years old, my。
father passed away. He died of AIDS that he contracted through a lot of sin. And。
he was hiding from us, from our family, was living a double life. And my family,。
in the wake of that, blew apart. My mother, pretty soon after, remarried an。
unbeliever. As a result of that, I was angry. I was an angry 18-year-old who was。
still grieving over the loss of my best friend. And she had the audacity to do。
what she had always instructed us to do, not to date, not to marry someone who。
doesn't follow Jesus. And so what do we do? Me and my sister, we cut her off. We。
didn't talk to her for three years. And my life for about three years just。
spiraled downward. I was hopeless. I was seeking joy. I was seeking。
contentment. I was seeking to numb the pain of my grief from anything and。
everything the world could throw at me. And I was hopeless. And one day, my。
sister, who lived up in College Station, she and her husband were students at,。
yes, Texas A&M University. And like a great older sister does, she called me。
and she said, "Oren, you are an idiot. You're living like a fool." She saw my。
hopeless state. I'd actually been just fired from my job for stealing car parts。
to sell on the side because I was racing cars and we sold them for car parts and。
it's a big Mustang ring. And that wasn't actually one of my notes. I just felt。
like saying that. Give me some street cred maybe. And so let's just say I was。
not in a good place. I was unemployed. I didn't have a home. And I felt like if。
you've seen the movie Dumb and Dumber, you know, we got no food, we got no。
clothes, our pet's heads are falling off. That's how I felt. And so my sister was。
like, "Why don't you move up with us?" And so just really out of feeling like I。
didn't have anywhere else to go, I moved up with my sister and husband and she。
said, "You're welcome to live with us on one condition that you go to church with。
us." I was like, "Fine. All right. Free room and board." So I started going to。
church with my sister. And after about a year, I had heard something. God opened。
my ears to hear what I hadn't heard before. He opened my eyes to see what I。
hadn't seen before. And that was the beauty and the glory of Christ who came。
to die for a sinner like me. He lived the life that I couldn't live. He obeyed。
perfectly in my place. He died the death for my sin that I deserve to die. And he。
was raised from the dead. And so through trusting in him, through giving my life。
to him by receiving him, God filled me with something I had not had before. Joy.。
Peace. Love. Acceptance. Security. Assurance. And even more, he gave me a。
family. That church became my family in the wake of not having a family. And in。
the subsequent years, I saw the Lord work in my life and through my life, in my。
family's life, and he brought my mom's husband to faith in Christ. And he。
restored my mom's and I's relationship. And by God's grace, we have an incredible。
relationship. She actually texted me yesterday and asked me a question that。
after we died, do we get wings? It's a great question. I was like, Oh, Lord,。
have mercy. No, we don't have wings. Right. But I come to you tonight and tell。
you what a glorious Savior we have. God did not spare his own son. How will he。
not also with him freely, graciously give us all things? And one of those。
wonderful gifts is the gift of family. So that's what I want to focus our。
attention on tonight. Here's my main point that I want to talk about tonight.。
Jesus is making a new family on earth gathered around himself, and he's doing。
it with outsiders. And that changes everything. I'll repeat it. Jesus is。
making a new family on earth gathered around himself, and he's doing it with。
outsiders. And that changes everything. But before we get there, we need to clear。
some ground. Because as you notice, as Kylin said, we're in Mark chapter three,。
which means there's two chapters that come before this. So we need to get our。
bearings a little bit and understand where we are in the context of Mark.。
Okay, Mark's very first words in chapter one, verse one, you don't have to turn。
there, are the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the son of God. That's。
like the title of his book. This is what his gospel is about. Gospel just means。
good news. And so what Mark is saying is this is the beginning of the good news,。
the gospel of Jesus Christ, the son of God. Now, why is it good news? Mark spends。
the next 15 chapters telling us why it's good news. And basically, the gospel is。
good news, because God did what you and I couldn't do. That's the gist of the。
gospel. That God did for us what we could not do for our self. And he just goes off。
for 15 chapters, painting a glorious picture of who this God is, the very son。
of God. That God, in the person of the son, became flesh. As John says, the word。
became flesh and tabernacled among us, who templed among us. That is the eternal。
son who's from the father, was sent from the father in time to become man and live。
the life that we couldn't live, die the death that we deserve to die. And Mark。
paints a beautiful picture about he is the better king. He is the better son. He。
brings God's kingdom, God's rule, God's authority to earth. And that is a good。
thing. And he shows us in detail after detail how Jesus is the authoritative。
king who has authority over sin and authority over death and authority over。
Satan and authority over evil and authority over creation and authority。
over unclean spirits and authority over disease. He has authority over everything。
and everyone. And this brought all kinds of responses. So even in Mark chapter。
three, in the text we're in, by then people are questioning him. They're。
accusing him. They don't really understand who he is. They're confused。
about him. Some recognize him. And it's actually interesting that the only。
people who recognize him up to this point are the unclean spirits. They。
confess him. You are the Christ, the Messiah, the king, the holy one of Israel.。
Everybody else is kind of like, what's going on? Who is this guy? He's making。
these amazing claims. In our passage tonight, we'll see what his family。
thought of him and how Jesus responded. So it's important to know the context。
where we are in Mark. But it's also secondly, important to see how Mark。
makes our main point tonight, that Jesus makes a new family gather around。
himself. It's important to see how Mark makes his main point, and we cannot miss。
it. You probably got confused a little bit when Colin was reading. And there's。
a point for that. If you notice, Mark introduces his family in verses 20 and。
21. When he says his family heard all that Jesus was saying, and they were。
seeing all that Jesus were doing, and they went out to seize him. That's a。
word that's used throughout the rest of his gospel to arrest him, to control。
him, to take charge of him. Why? Because they were saying he is out of his mind.。
His family thought he was nuts. He was crazy. So Mark introduces his family in。
verses 20 and 21. But then he immediately jumps to the story about him being。
accused of working with Satan. Kind of an abrupt shift. But then after he deals。
with that story in verses 31 through 35, Mark jumps back to his family and tells。
us their response. It kind of feels like we're, here's family, and then here's。
Satan accusing him, and Jesus responding, and then going back to his family. What's。
going on here? Well, I'm so glad you asked. This is a literary device Mark。
frequently uses throughout his gospel called a Mark sandwich. You can write。
that down. It's actually a pretty technical theological term, but it。
sounds funny. Who didn't like sandwiches? Well, Mark likes sandwiches. And he does。
it all throughout his gospel. What do I mean by that? This is a literary device。
he uses to make a point. So stay with me here. The middle of the sandwich, so。
verses 22 to 30, help us understand the outside of the sandwich. The middle of。
the sandwich helps us interpret and understand and apply and receive the。
main point of the text. So what do I mean by that? Well, while his family is trying。
to control him, there's the outside of this other sandwich, and the scribes are。
accusing him of being on the same team as Satan, and they're rejecting him, Jesus in。
the middle out kings them all and displays his unrivaled control and。
authority. It is a brilliant literary point to make. Mark is telling us in the。
middle of this story that Jesus is the strong man who plunders and destroys the。
so-called strong man of this age. Do you see that? He says in verse 27, "No one can。
enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods." He's referring here to Satan,。
to evil activity, unless he first binds the strong man. Well, that assumes that。
this strong man who's bound is bound by a stronger man. It's interesting that。
back in Mark chapter 1 verse 7, John the Baptist says, "You know what? As great as I。
am, there's one coming after me, and he is mightier, stronger than I." And Mark is。
telling us who this mightier one, who is this stronger one is. The stronger one is。
Jesus. And in this passage, the ones who think they're insiders, on one hand his。
his blood family, and on the other hand the scribes from Jerusalem, I mean。
they're God's people, right? Israel. The ones who think that they're insiders,。
family and scribes, are in reality outsiders. And Jesus seizes the moment to。
reveal who the true insiders are. So we have to see what Jesus is doing. Why? Why。
is this important to his audience and to us? Well, at that time it appeared that。
Satan had won. Do you see what they say? They accuse him, verse 22, that。
he's possessed by Beelzebul, by the prince of demons. And by the prince of。
demons, he cast out demons. And he called them and said to them in parables, and he。
tells this story. How can Satan cast out Satan? And he quotes those famous words。
of Abraham Lincoln. "If a kingdom is divided against itself, the king..." I'm just。
kidding. Abraham Lincoln got it from him. Just making sure you're following. "If a。
house divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand." Maybe in。
contemporary terms, a basketball player is not going to score in his own goal. Or。
a football player is not going to score in his own end zone. Or if you're like my。
daughter and she loves Dancing with the Stars, a dance team is not going to score。
points for the other dance team. I think I got that right. They're over there. She。
can correct me later. Jesus is exposing their absurdity. If I were on the。
same team as Satan, then why would I be working against Satan? That's his point.。
And that's an important point. Because these people have been under the。
dominion of Satan in satanic activity for generation after generation after。
generation. I mean, just imagine if you know the history of Israel, it wasn't a。
pretty history. Going all the way back to the Garden of Eden, where God created。
Adam and Eve to have life with him and fellowship with him. Instead of。
listening to his word, they listened to the word of a serpent. Did God really say?。
And instead of believing God, instead of taking God at his word, they took the。
word of the serpent and unleashed a world of sin and death in their wake. It。
began with their own children. Cain and Abel. Cain murdered Abel. And it just。
continued and escalated after him. Noah, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, the nation。
of Israel, David. Every person after Adam and Eve fell into sin was a sinner and。
died just like their parents. And the Old Testament ends with Israel in exile, away。
from the promised land, away from the promises of God, because they were under。
the rule and dominion of Satan. And they've been waiting. They've been。
waiting for hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years. When is God going to。
fulfill his promises? When is the Messiah? When is the king going to come。
and display his authority and put the other kingdoms down? We're tired of being。
ruled by Babylonians and the Assyrians and the Medo-Persians and in Jesus' day,。
the Romans. We're tired of it. We need the king to come in long fulfillment and。
anticipation of God's promises and prophecies of a king who would come and。
break into history and save his people from worldly dominion. And so it appeared。
at this time that Satan had won. And Mark shows us in wonderful ways that end。
steps the son of God. The word who became flesh. In fact, John's gospel tells us。
that that he is the light who shines in the darkness and the darkness did not。
overcome it. Friends, this was the king that they had been waiting for. This was。
the king that they needed. But unfortunately, it's not the king they。
wanted. They wanted a king who would deliver them from Rome. But Jesus is a。
greater king who delivers them from sin, Satan and death. And Jesus shows the。
folly of their accusation. And Jesus says that anyone who condemns the ministry of。
Jesus as the ministry of Satan is guilty of an eternal sin. This is what it means.。
Real quick. This is what it means to blaspheme the Holy Spirit. Because the。
Spirit, John tells us, works to glorify and to exalt Jesus. Jesus says, "When I。
leave after my death and resurrection, I'm going to send you another helper, the。
Spirit of truth, and he will, he will indwell you. He will not just be with you,。
he will be in you. And he will take from me and he will make it known to you. He。
will guide you into all truth." And he did that. He guided the disciples in the。
truth, and they wrote that truth down. And this is what we have in the pages of。
the New Testament. And so this is what it means to blaspheme the Holy Spirit。
because the Spirit works to glorify Jesus. In the words of J.I. Packer, the。
Spirit's work is a spotlight work. The Spirit's ministry is a spotlight。
ministry. In other words, the Spirit exists to shine the light on Jesus, not。
to glorify himself. To shine the light on Jesus. And so to reject the Holy。
Spirit is to reject Jesus. And to reject Jesus is to reject God himself. But。
there's hope. Look at verse 28. "Truly I say to you, all kinds of sins will be。
forgiven the children of man. And whatever blasphemies they utter, but。
whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is。
guilty of an eternal sin." Do you see that? People get worried about, "Oh, did。
I commit the eternal sin? Did I commit that blasphemy?" Let me just say it in。
clearest terms. If you're worried about that, you haven't committed it. It。
actually should give you great assurance because blasphemy against the Holy。
Spirit is finally rejecting the work of the Spirit who shines his light on Jesus。
and thus is to reject Jesus. And Jesus says, "I will forgive all sins and。
blasphemies." This is an amazing story. Do you remember the story of Stephen in。
Acts chapter 7, who preached probably one of the best sermons ever? Stephen is。
accusing the unbelieving Jews, unbelieving Israel for resisting the。
Holy Spirit because they were rejecting Jesus. He says, "You always resist the。
Holy Spirit, just like your fathers always did." And it's amazing that it goes。
on a few verses later and tells us that there is a man in the crowd who stood。
and looked approvingly at all that was happening. And what had happened is they。
murdered Stephen. He's one of the first martyrs of the church. Do you know who。
that man was? His name was Saul. And Saul would be renamed Paul, depending on where。
he went to share the gospel. And Paul was that man that Jesus comes to just a。
couple of chapters later and says, "Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?" And。
Jesus saves him. Jesus forgives him. Jesus gives Saul his very righteousness so。
that Saul, once an enemy of Jesus, is now a friend. Do you get what's going on?。
Jesus shows up and has mercy on him. And friends, Paul never got over it. He says,。
"I'm the least of the apostles. By God's grace, I am what I am. I am the chief of。
sinners, but Jesus had mercy on me." Friends, marvel at God's mercy. If you。
are here tonight, no matter where you've been, no matter what you've done, as。
Richard Sibbes says, "There is more mercy in Christ than sin in you." Do you believe。
that? There is more mercy in Christ than there is sin in you. So what's the call?。
Go to Jesus where there is mercy to forgive. Go to Jesus where there is mercy。
to help. Go to Jesus where there is an unending fount of mercy to endure, to。
give you wisdom, to give you assurance. Okay. Man, I don't know what's up with my。
voice. I haven't preached in a long time. Okay, so let's turn our attention back on。
the main point that Mark is making, that Jesus is plundering Satan's house to。
make a new family for himself, gathered around himself. And he's doing it with。
outsiders. This is why we're here tonight, and this is what I will focus the rest of。
our time on. This is what I want us to see, because this point changes。
everything, particularly in relationships with our families, parents, siblings, and。
everyone else. So with the rest of our time together, let me just point out。
three things. First, this is gonna blow your minds. Are you ready for this? The。
first point we have to see from this text is that Jesus had a family. Is that。
amazing? You're like, "Really? You taught theology, and this is what you came here。
to say?" You're like, "Yeah, we already knew that." Well, it's actually interesting that。
in the early church, that's one of the most predominant heresies. Actually, in。
1 John, it says that anyone who denies that Jesus has come in the flesh, he is。
the Antichrist. There was a whole host of heresies. You can study them. One's called。
monophysitism. The other one's called ebionitism. The other one's called。
docetism. They denied his humanity. Now you're thinking, "Yeah, this is what we。
paid for. Give us some good theological terms." No, that's important. That's why。
all the creeds, the Apostles' Creed, the Nicene Creed, the Caledonian Creed, and。
the first five centuries of the church confessed Jesus was genuinely, truly,。
fully human. He was born of the Virgin Mary, conceived by the Holy Spirit. Why?。
Because they denied it. So it was very theologically important to affirm that。
Jesus was and is truly and fully human. But there's also a very practical point。
for us tonight. Jesus knew what it was like to have a family and all the。
dynamics that come as a result of being part of one. Notice the mess of Jesus's。
family. They tried to seize him. They thought he was crazy. They thought he was。
out of his mind. They thought he had lost his marbles. And it's。
helpful that Mark just doesn't airbrush that out of Jesus's family. He。
wasn't concerned with putting up an Instagram page where it just kind of。
looks like Jesus's family is perfect. They go on family vacation. They all get。
along. They sing kumbaya. There's no conflict. There's no arguments. Mom and。
Dad love each other. Siblings never fight. Yeah, right. Raise your hand if。
you've ever had a vacation like that. Not many of us, I don't think. I sure haven't.。
And I love my family. That may be the way of social media, but it's not。
reality. The truth is family life is complicated. It's hard. It's stressful.。
It's messy. We are sinners. We sin against them. They are sinners. They sin。
against us. And when they sin against us, we're sinners. We respond sinfully. And we。
respond sinfully. They respond sinfully. And there's just like a cycle. And it's。
extremely helpful to see something of the messiness of Jesus's family. It's。
actually an amazing comfort. Hebrews 4, 15 and 16 says that we do not have a high。
priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted。
in all things as we are, yet without sin. I'm sure that drove his brothers and。
sisters crazy. He was perfect. He was without sin. But friends, that's a。
comfort. He can sympathize with our weaknesses. He knew what it was like for。
his family to need saving. Does your family need saving? So did his. Does your。
family have conflict? So did his. Does your family think you're crazy? So did。
his. Now, you may be. I don't know. I'm not a judge of that. Some of you may have。
left your old life of sin to find your new life in Jesus. And it's coming to。
cost. That happened to me. When I didn't enjoy the sin that I used to enjoy, my。
family was like, "You're a dud. You're no fun anymore." Do you struggle with。
misunderstanding, being misunderstood, tension, stress, conflict? Go to Jesus。
with your burdens and your anxieties, and he will give you out of his own。
abundance what you need. The second point that we see from this passage is that。
Jesus makes a new family gathered around himself, and he's doing it without。
fighters. This is what we see in verses 31 through 35, and this is a staggering。
claim. I mean, think about family in Jesus's day. Think about how important it。
was for you to be identified as an Israelite. I mean, after all, they were。
God's chosen people. They were God's treasured possessions. In Exodus 4.22,。
it's called Israel God's son. They weren't like those Gentiles, those。
outsiders, those nations that aren't Israel. What's going on here? Well, when。
Jesus says to them, right, as his mother and his brothers came standing outside。
and sent to him and called him, and a crowd was sitting around him, and they。
said to him, "Your mother and your brothers are outside seeking you," and he。
answers, "who are my mother and my brothers." And looking about at those who。
sat around him, he said, "Here are my mother and my brothers. Whoever does the。
will of God, he is my brother and my sister and my mother." What's going on。
here? Is Jesus just trashing his family? He's like, "Y'all are dead to me." No, Jesus。
isn't saying that. In fact, if you go and read throughout the other three。
Gospels, it shows us that Jesus has a deep love and concern for his family.。
Jesus's first miracle in John was a miracle at a wedding, and his mother was。
like, "Jesus, we're out of wine." And Jesus is like, "Well, it's not really time yet," but。
he grants her her request. Fast forward to the end of the Gospel. You remember。
what Jesus says as he's hanging on the cross? He looks down at his mother and he。
says to his mother, "Mother, behold your son." And he says to the Apostle John, his。
beloved disciple, "John, behold your mother." Do you get what's going on here? Think。
about it. In his final breaths, Jesus was caring for his mother. He's saying, "Mom,。
John's gonna care for you. John, care for my mother." Why? Because he loved and cared。
deeply for his family. Perhaps he was thinking about that Old Testament。
passage in Exodus 20 where it says that the children are to honor their father。
and their mother. We see that in this moment, caring for, looking after, having a。
deep love and concern for his mother. So what's happening here? Here's what's。
happening. Though Jesus loved his family, his primary relationship and allegiance。
was to his father. And the saving mission he came to accomplish, in other words, the。
gospel was paramount. The gospel was primary in Jesus's purpose and saving。
mission. Though he loved his earthly family, they could not distract him from。
his saving mission. In John 17, too, he prays, "Father, the hour has come." He's。
praying to his eternal father as the eternal son. "Father, the hour has come.。
Glorify your son that the Son may glorify you." Why? Because you've given him。
authority over all flesh to give eternal life to whom you have given him. Jesus,。
though he loved his family, came to make a new one. A family from every tribe and。
language and nation and people. That's amazing. And so what's for us here?。
What do we say about this new family that Jesus came to make? It's interesting。
that as you go on to read the New Testament, the church is described in。
beautiful familial terms. The church is a household of faith. The church is composed。
of believers who unite themselves together under mutual obligations to。
love each other and bear one another's burdens and grieve with each other and。
weep with each other and rejoice with one another and to care for each other。
and what are they called? Brothers and sisters in Christ. He calls the older。
women of the church to be mothers to the younger women of the church. He calls the。
men of the church, older men of the church, fathers to be fathers to young men in the。
church. And this is part of my story. I'm losing my family, both my father to death。
and my mother just to be angry. What I gained in my church were brothers and。
sisters and fathers and mothers and they helped me along. What a gift we have in。
the church. Friend, are you lonely? Do you need someone to bear your burdens? Do you。
need someone to weep with you or to rejoice with you or to care for you? This。
is what God has given us in each other. If you are a member of Watermark。
Community Church, this is why we exist for one another. And if you're not a。
member of a local church, we would love to talk to you more about it. If you are a。
member of a local church and you're just visiting the porch, praise God you're。
here. What a gift you have in your local church. Don't, don't neglect the family。
that God has given you and me. And the last thing I want us to see is that。
Jesus's family gathers around and listens to him. This is what we see in。
verses 34 and 35. Notice what I read, what's the mark of someone who belongs。
to Jesus's family? Jesus says in verse 35, "Whoever does the will of God, he is my。
brother and sister and mother." Now what does that look like? Well, let me ask you。
this, what were the people around him doing? Answer, they were sitting. And where。
were they doing it? Literally, they were doing it around him. And what were they。
doing sitting around him? They were listening to him. Do you see that? These。
people were simply gathered. Jesus looks about and they're already there. They're。
gathered around him. They're sitting there listening to him, hanging around。
him. That's amazing to think about. "He who does the will of my father, he is my。
brother and my mother and my sister." What does this doing consist of? Sitting, being,。
hanging around, listening. It's similar to John 6 when people ask Jesus, "What。
must we be doing to be doing the works of God?" And Jesus says, "This is the work of。
God, that you believe in him whom he has sent." Do you get that? What do we do?。
Believe. No, no, no, no, no, no. No, what do we do? You believe. No, what do we do?。
You sit around Jesus. You hang around Jesus. You listen to Jesus through his。
word. Did you catch that? How do outside people get on the inside with。
Jesus? Not by doing, but by believing. Not by achieving, but by receiving. By banking。
our lives on his word and work. By receiving him. Doing the work of God is。
not fundamentally rooted in our work. Why? Because we are sinners and our work。
only brings condemnation and eternal judgment from a holy God whom we have。
rebelled against. But God in his mercy has made it possible for us to what? To。
not do, but believe. To not try to achieve and earn his favor, but to receive。
the one who already has. This is why God says from from heaven, "This is my beloved。
son. Listen to him because he has done for us what we could not do for ourselves."。
He obeyed in our place. He died for sin in our place. He was raised in our place.。
He is seated in our place. That's why scripture can speak of us as Christians.。
If you have received Christ, what happens to you? You have died with him. You've。
been raised to walk in newness of life. You've been seated with him in the。
heavenly places. And when we receive him, we receive his status, his sonship, so。
that God the Father can call us sons and daughters of God. And Jesus can call us。
brothers and sisters, co-heirs with him. Friends, when Jesus takes up residence in。
us, he changes our hearts. He changes our desires. He changes our wants. He changes。
our minds. He changes our wills so that we want to do what we ought to do. Does。
that describe you tonight? I knew as a kid what I ought to do, and I couldn't do。
it, and I didn't do it. But that's what describes a Christian. A Christian wants。
to do and can do and will do what he or she ought to do. Why? Because God makes it。
possible. He removes our hearts of stone. He gives us hearts of flesh. He writes。
his law on our heart. He causes us to walk in his statues. Why? Because he。
cleanses us from the inside out, and he gives us his Spirit so that we can, we。
want to, and we will. Doing God's will means that we hang around Jesus, listen。
to Jesus, gather around Jesus, and find our lives in Jesus. And let me ask you。
this. When Jesus looks around to see who is hanging around him, does he see you?。
That's a great question to know if you're on the inside, if you are part of。
his family. Are you hanging around him? Do you gather regularly, weekly with his。
church, with his body, to hear his word preached and sung and prayed and。
ministered? Are you hanging on his words? When you applied for that job or started。
that business or went on that date, did you seek counsel from him and his word?。
Friend, he will not lead us astray. He's a good shepherd who will always lead us。
to righteousness, to green pastures, to still waters. And so what's the call for。
us tonight? The call for us tonight is the first step in doing God's will. The。
first step in becoming part of his family is to come under his kingship and。
authority, and that is a good thing because, friends, sin is a bad king. The。
enemy comes to steal and to kill and to destroy, and that brings death. But King。
Jesus comes that he might give us life and life abundantly. So we can take Jesus。
at his word, we can come under his authority because he is a good king. His。
ways always lead to life. His ways always lead to peace and rest and assurance and。
love. And he provides for us what we most deeply need. Friend, what do you need。
from Jesus tonight? Do you need family? There's good news for you. You can find。
it in his church. Maybe you need deliverance. You can find it in his。
redemption. Do you need righteousness? You can find it in his obedience, death,。
and resurrection. Do you need forgiveness? You can find it in his。
condemnation. Do you need strength? You can find it in his power over sin, Satan,。
and death. Do you need sanctification? You can find it in his holiness. Do you。
need comfort? You can find it in his rest. Do you need wisdom? You can find it in。
him, in whom are the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. And here's what happens。
when we become part of his family. When we become part of his family, we receive。
an assurance and a love and a freedom to go about the family business. Freedom to。
love our earthly families, even when it's hard. Courage to speak the truth in love,。
knowing that they need the same Jesus and what he can give them as you need from him。
too. And he's eager to give. Do you know what sends missionaries to reach the。
unreached with the good news of Jesus or to our neighbors or to have hard。
conversations with our families or to business ventures that leverage all we。
have for the sake of the gospel? Do you know what does that? It's understanding。
deeply that we who are not a people have become his people. That we who had not。
received mercy, as Hosea says, have now received mercy. Not guilt or fear that。
we're not doing enough, but freedom to live fully in him with the settled and。
joyful conviction that everything is rubbish and they're surpassing worth of。
following and knowing and being found in Jesus Christ our Lord. So let me finish。
by saying this. If this seems impossible for you, it is. It is. But be encouraged。
because Jesus is the only one who perfectly did God's will. And you know。
what? He did it for us and for our salvation. He did it in our place. In。
that great exchange where we who are sinners, we lay our sin on Jesus. And。
Jesus who is righteous credits us with his very righteousness. That God made him。
who knew no sin to be sin for us that we might become the righteousness of God in。
him. 2nd Corinthians 521 says. He's the only one who perfectly did God's will.。
And he did it for us and for our salvation. Do you remember those。
precious words in the Garden of Gethsemane? He prayed, "Father, not my will。
but yours be done." He did God's will. He fulfilled all righteousness so that。
receiving him we receive everything, everything, everything we need. Even a new。
family. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you. Then we say with Peter.。
After you Lord Jesus looked at your disciples and said, "If you want to。
follow me, you gotta have all of me. You can't just follow the parts。
you like. You got to eat my flesh and drink my blood. The very flesh and blood。
that would be crucified on a cross." And Jesus tells them later on and says, "If。
you want my path to glory, you got to take up your cross and follow me." And he。
looks at his disciples because many of the people around him walked away. They。
were not hanging around him. They were not listening to him. And he looks at his。
disciples and says to them, "Do you wish to also go away?" And we have those。
precious words of Peter. "Lord, where else do we go? For you have the words of。
eternal life. Oh God, would we have the heart of Peter that we say to you, King。
Jesus, where else do we go? For you have the words of eternal life. So lead us,。
satisfy us, save us. We pray in Jesus' name, amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
