(waves crashing)。
- Hey porch, join me as we read God's word together。
from the book of 2 Timothy chapter two,。
verses 14 through 26.。
Remind them of these things and charge them before God。
not to quarrel about words, which does no good,。
but only ruins the hearers.。
Do your best to present yourself to God as one of proof,。
a worker who has no need to be ashamed,。
rightly handling the word of truth.。
But avoid irreverent babble,。
where we'll lead people into more and more ungodliness。
and their talk will spread like gangrene.。
Among them are the hymenis and philithes。
who have swerved from the truth,。
saying that the resurrection has already happened.。
They are upsetting the faith of some.。
But God's firm foundation stands and bearing this seal.。
The Lord knows those who are his。
and that everyone who names the name of the Lord。
depart from iniquity.。
Now in a great house,。
there are not only vessels of gold and silver,。
but also wood and clay,。
some for honorable use, some for dishonorable.。
Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself。
from what is dishonorable,。
he will be a vessel for what's honorable.。
For honorable use, set apart as holy,。
useful for the master of the house for every good work.。
So flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness,。
faith, love, and peace,。
along with those who call on the name of the Lord。
from a pure heart.。
Have nothing to do with foolish, ignorant controversies.。
You know that they breed quarrels。
and the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome,。
but kind to everyone, able to teach,。
patiently enduring evil,。
correcting his opponents with gentleness.。
God may perhaps grant them the repentance。
leading to a knowledge of truth,。
and then become to their senses。
and escape from the snare of the devil。
after being captured by him to do his will.。
Now our third message in this year is a second Timothy.。
- Okay, tonight.。
Hey, it's great to be with you.。
Thanks so much for making time to be here with us.。
Whether it's this Tuesday,。
it's another day that you're tuning in.。
It is such a joy to be a part of what God is doing.。
Yes, in Dallas, Texas,。
but really in the lives of young adults here in our city,。
but in cities like this all over,。
particularly those of our Portslide locations.。
We are so glad that God is working there。
as he is working here.。
I'm so eager for where we're going tonight,。
but I want to start things off with a story like normal.。
Before we moved to Dallas, my wife and I,。
we lived in Houston, Texas.。
I was working in a young adult ministry,。
very similar to this one, just in that city.。
And I'll never forget when we got there,。
what my welcome to the city moment was.。
You know what I'm talking about?。
Like where you realize, okay,。
this is what we're dealing with.。
It came on the very first night of our ministry that year.。
It was our kickoff event.。
And so one of my really dear friends, he had come in town。
and he wanted to be a part of the festivities。
and see me teach.。
And afterwards we decided, you know what?。
Like, let's go get some food.。
He hasn't had dinner.。
I haven't had dinner.。
Let's get out of here.。
And we do what you normally do.。
We were unfamiliar with the area.。
I was new to the territory again,。
and it was after 10 PM.。
So we pulled up Google and we just started looking like,。
what's open right now that is marginally edible?。
And so we found a wing joint that had pretty good reviews.。
And so we leave the church and we make our way over there.。
We show up and what we realize is。
the place is virtually empty.。
There are only six people in the entire restaurant。
upon arrival.。
There's three people, a group sitting together at the bar.。
There's one female bartender.。
She has a friend, a buddy of hers。
that is sitting at the bar as well.。
And then there's one bus boy that is doing everything。
in his power just to hold the entire experience together.。
And so we grab a seat and we start looking at the menu.。
We place our order.。
And right as our food arrives,。
we noticed that there was some tension at the bar.。
Now we weren't sure what the cause of the debate。
or argument was, but we began to suspect。
that it was pretty serious。
whenever that female bartender reached across the bar,。
grabbed one of those girls by her hair,。
drug her across the bar。
and began to lead her towards the door.。
Not only that, but then as that was happening,。
one of the guys in that girl's group,。
like he springs to his feet。
and he pushes her buddy out of his stool。
and he falls to the ground and he gets up。
and he starts swinging back at that guy.。
And meanwhile, the other girl in that group of three,。
she is now standing on a tabletop。
and she's found a pool cue.。
I didn't even know they had pool at this place.。
And she is swinging that thing at this poor bus boy。
who was just trying to calm her down.。
He didn't do anything wrong.。
In that moment, it occurred to me,。
I was in the middle of my first bar fight,。
which just felt really exciting,。
despite the fact that I never threw a punch more.。
And I sat 30 yards away.。
My food showed up right as it was all beginning.。
And so I just decided to finish my meal。
as we waited for the cops to show up.。
And yet while this was all happening,。
this thought occurred to me.。
I realized you can't control if someone wants to fight,。
but you can control if you pull them across the bar。
and you throw the first punch.。
Why do I tell you that?。
Because in this world,。
you may not find yourself in a bar fight,。
but you're gonna find yourself in some kind of fight.。
This life we live is crazy and it's chaotic。
and it's full of crisis.。
And yet though you cannot control when the crisis comes,。
you can control your composure when it does.。
Like just because someone's looking to pick a fight。
doesn't mean that you have to give them one.。
And yet what we know, if you pay attention to our society,。
is we're not that good at avoiding the fray.。
You don't believe me?。
Like all you gotta do is just read the reviews。
on whatever movie is currently in theaters。
and see people not only spill the spoilers,。
but also spill their hatred for whatever is going on.。
Pull up X and read live, like as a show is going。
or a game is playing, just read the comments。
or go and look at the comments that people will give。
on any kind of political post.。
And what you'll see is that people,。
they are so quick to stir the pot and to build up drama。
and to pick a fight.。
And yet here's the thing,。
you don't even need to look into the culture.。
You need only look at yourself and realize。
we are really bad at keeping our composure.。
And the reason why is it's hard to keep your composure。
when the world we live in does not seem to have any interest。
in this idea whatsoever.。
And yet here is the thing,。
if you're a Christian in the room,。
then you need to listen to me.。
We are called to do it nonetheless.。
You see, the way the Bible talks about this idea。
is we are to conduct our lives with honor.。
That's the word behind our entire message this evening.。
I want to visit with you about how we live honorable lives。
in the midst of a dishonoring day.。
How do you keep your composure when it feels like。
all there is around you is crisis instead?。
The apostle Paul, who wrote the letter of 2 Timothy,。
which we've been working through in this series,。
he's going to breach this subject here tonight。
because as you get to chapter two。
and you start reading at verse 14,。
which is everything Carlos just read for us,。
what you find is we've sort of turned the corner。
into a brand new section of this letter。
where Paul is writing to his young protege, Timothy,。
and he's telling him,。
"Hey, you have the right attitudes in light of chapter one。
"and in the beginning of chapter two,。
"like we've discussed these past few weeks,。
"and yet now you move from attitudes and into activity.。
"You begin to consider what then should be true。
"of your life."。
And for Timothy, within his specific context,。
Paul knows he's got some trouble on his hands.。
Like there are some issues at bay.。
Like he has got to figure out how to deal with these people。
that are stirring up drama.。
They've come into his church。
and they've begun to confront his ideas.。
And they've even begun to refute the gospel。
that he is preaching.。
They're known as false teachers.。
And so Paul is writing to Timothy and he tells him,。
"Hey, here's how you deal with people。
"that want to pick a fight.。
"Here's how you keep your composure。
"in the face of the crisis they're causing.。
"Here's how you live with honor。
"during a dishonoring day."。
And what he's gonna tell Timothy, as well as ourselves,。
are four principles for doing so in our own lives.。
So we're gonna pick it up, verse 14.。
We're gonna work our way through a little bit of scripture。
and then we're gonna talk about it as we always do.。
Verse 14, here's what it says.。
"Remind them of these things and charge them before God。
"not to quarrel about words.。
"It does no good.。
"It only ruins the hearers.。
"Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved,。
"a worker who has no need to be ashamed,。
"rightly handling the word of truth."。
So the first thing that Paul tells us。
if you wanna live a life of honor。
is you've gotta avoid unproductive disagreements.。
That's your first point.。
You gotta avoid unproductive disagreements.。
He charges Timothy before God.。
Some of your translation says that he charges Timothy。
in the presence of God,。
which is the strongest commissioning。
that Paul gives in any pastoral epistle.。
It would be the ancient Near Eastern equivalent。
of your mom calling you by your first, middle,。
and last name.。
What does that do?。
It makes you stand up straight。
and listen to whatever she's gonna say.。
It calls you to attention。
because whatever she's about to say is serious.。
Paul is saying the exact same thing.。
He's demanding the same sort of response from Timothy.。
He tells him, "Hey, before God, I charge you."。
What?。
What's he charging?。
To not quarrel about words.。
In the Greek, that idea,。
it literally means to not engage in word wars.。
Like don't pick a fight with other people。
just to prove that you're intellectually superior,。
which Christians, we never do that, do we?。
We don't do that with one another.。
We don't do that with the world.。
And yet the reality is,。
it doesn't mean we shouldn't disagree with people.。
It doesn't mean that we can't be corrective。
in conversations.。
But what it does tell us。
is that we should be aware。
if ever we're lobbing verbal bombs。
and it feels like the conversation has caught fire。
and nothing is going productively.。
That tells us we're in the midst of a word war.。
So as just an example,。
in marriage, often, not always,。
but often, your biggest disagreements。
always come from the smallest of issues.。
I remember for Brooke and I,。
it was early in our marriage。
and the week was long, it was difficult.。
We were finally at the weekend.。
And so we were like, you know what?。
Let's bring it in the right way.。
Let's prep dinner and let's grill some steaks。
and start the weekend on a high note.。
Now, unashamedly, steak is my favorite food.。
I mean, it is by and large, Kylen Perry's favorite meal.。
It is my preference if ever I get to pick.。
And so we were doing this this night.。
And now as any self-respecting person knows,。
steak is always served with potatoes, always.。
Like that's a non-negotiable.。
It is assumed at the very least.。
And yet for whatever reason,。
my wife did not seem to know this.。
She had not purchased any potatoes to speak of.。
Instead, she had decided that we would eat corn and salad。
alongside that steak in the evening.。
And what ensued from that moment。
was the equivalent of a word war。
because I unpinned a verbal grenade and I lobbed it at her.。
And I was like, are you crazy?。
Like steak without potatoes, we might as well not even eat.。
Marriage is so very sanctifying.。
This is case in point number one.。
I have since grown so very much.。
And you would never, never engage in something。
so seemingly silly as that.。
And yet often we do engage,。
we fight over something so seemingly serious。
as whether or not true believers can be tempted。
with same-sex attraction or not.。
Whether you're allowed or not allowed。
to vote Democrat and love Jesus at the same time,。
whether Charlie Kirk is or isn't actually a Christian martyr,。
whether you should or you shouldn't.。
Listen to Chapel Rome if you are a Christian.。
Here's the thing.。
I haven't even stated to you my position。
on some of these issues,。
but the mere mention of them。
has some of you boiling inside,。
ready to spring into action and present your case.。
And that is evidence of a quarrelsome heart.。
Now, am I saying that these things。
are not worthy of talking about?。
Of course not.。
That's not what I'm saying in the slightest,。
but I am saying the way we talk about them。
matters quite possibly even more.。
Verse Peter 3:15 says,。
"But in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as holy,。
always being prepared to make a defense.。
Do it for anyone who asks you for a reason。
for the hope that's in you,。
and yet do it with gentleness and respect."。
Do you see it?。
We should always be prepared to make a defense.。
That's the what, and yet Peter doesn't stop there.。
He gives you the how.。
He says, "You should be prepared to make a defense,。
but not a destructive one.。
You should prepare instead to make a constructive defense."。
It's interesting, in the passage we're looking at,。
when he says, "Rightly handling the word of truth,"。
the idea there is that you would cut a straight line。
in the original language.。
It would be used as characteristic of a carpenter。
or a seamstress or a master craftsman.。
It would tell you that they are an expert。
in their particular trade.。
They can constructively contribute。
to whatever their field of expertise is.。
For the Christian, what is our field of expertise?。
It's God's word.。
It's not the stock market.。
It's not how to make the best sourdough.。
It's not who are the studs and duds。
of week four fantasy football.。
It's not whether or not you're actually gonna be able。
to shoot a shot at Robert Irwin。
because you think he's so cute on "Dancing with the Stars."。
None of that is actually your field of expertise.。
No, our field of expertise。
is what does the word of God say?。
And yet here's the thing,。
rather than being an expert in God's word,。
too often we are an expert in someone else's words.。
Culturally, we know better what our favorite teachers think。
or our podcaster's position is。
or that influencer has to say.。
We have mastered the opinions of man。
and not the truth of God.。
For Christians, we're not exempt.。
In fact, we are more guilty。
of having been raised under generational voices。
of adopting what our favorite pastors think about Jesus。
rather than what we think of Jesus himself.。
You see, we are willing to live vicariously。
through the relationship someone else has with Christ。
when we forego the ability to have that own relationship。
within our own lives.。
And yet the truth of the matter is。
you're not called to be an expert in anybody else's words。
nor their opinions.。
You're meant to be an expert in God's word.。
That's why we go deep in this book.。
All the questions facing humanity,。
the answers are right here.。
That's why we show up and we attend a Bible study。
and we surround ourselves with men and women。
that are older and wiser than we are.。
It's why we choose to every single day。
invest in reading this。
because we know in it is all the truth we need。
for the life we live.。
It's why we don't just fake it till we make it。
or we act like we have all the answers.。
We're willing to look dumb and ask questions,。
go to great questions,。
impose some of the things that we're really wondering。
and even worried about because we wanna know,。
man, what does God have to say。
about these specific issues in our life?。
It's why we're willing to go to a church。
that teaches the Bible.。
And listen to me, some of you need to be willing。
to leave a church that does not teach the Bible.。
I'm not telling you to come here,。
but I'm telling you to go somewhere。
that rightly reveres the word of God。
as the ultimate authority in all matters.。
I remember for myself in college,。
every night I would sit for a season。
and I would read small sections of scripture.。
And in order to understand them,。
I would write them back in my own words.。
I have journals filled with the KLP,。
the Kyle and Levi Perry translation.。
And it would just give me a way。
of trying to really understand。
in through my own articulation。
the very words that God had spoken.。
And here's the crazy thing, as I did it,。
the book came alive.。
It wasn't just that I was reading passages any longer,。
it's that God was speaking those passages to me.。
I realized that this book isn't dead, it's living.。
It's speaking and it's changing me。
and it can change you too.。
We must become an expert in the word of God.。
We need to know what we believe,。
because then if we don't,。
we'll struggle with what Paul says next.。
Let's keep going, verse 16.。
"But avoid irreverent babble.。
"It'll lead people into more and more ungodliness。
"and their talk will spread like gangrene.。
"Among them are Hymenaeus and Philetus。
"who have swerved from the truth,。
"saying that the resurrection has already happened.。
"They're upsetting the faith of some,。
"but God's firm foundation stands bearing the seal.。
"The Lord knows who are his。
"and let everyone who names the name of the Lord。
"depart from iniquity."。
The second thing that Paul teaches us,。
if we wanna live a life that is honorable,。
is we should guard against ungodly influences.。
Guard against ungodly influences.。
He says that these false teachers,。
they speak irreverent babble,。
which I don't know about you,。
but for me, it was a little difficult to understand.。
Like, what does that actually even mean?。
And so the way we understand it。
is just taking it word by word。
and trying to really parse through。
what they are definitionally interpreted as.。
And so if you think about the word irreverent,。
irreverent means it's disrespectful。
or it's inappropriate or it's improper.。
Like, it would be going to an interview。
and wearing swim trunks.。
There's nothing wrong with an interview.。
There's nothing wrong with swim trunks,。
but they are very wrong together.。
That is an inappropriate sort of situation.。
That's what it looks like to be irreverent.。
That word babble, it's the idea of nonsense.。
So our baby boy, Cash, he is almost a year old,。
but in the last few months,。
he's really started babbling quite a lot.。
And while adorable, it is absolute nonsense.。
He looked at a squirrel today and said, "Da-da."。
I mean, you know, it's like, dude, that's not your da-da.。
I'm your da-da.。
Like, that is just noise coming out of you.。
You're not making any kind of sense whatsoever.。
Paul is saying there are a lot of people in the world。
that are making noise.。
A lot of people in the world that speak nonsense.。
Timothy and Christian do not listen to them.。
They may sound convincing, but they will not be convicting。
because there's not an ounce of truth。
in the things that they say.。
That's why they're called false teachers.。
And here's the thing,。
they didn't just exist in Timothy's day.。
They exist, and maybe even in greater degree,。
within our own right now.。
This isn't just something that we look at in the text。
and we realize it was a problem for them there.。
No, it's something we look at in our lives。
and we realize it is a problem here now.。
And it's in greater degree than we likely even suspect,。
because what you realize is people can, via social media,。
gather crowds and assemble followers。
and disseminate whatever they wanna teach,。
whatever dreams they have, whatever thoughts they think,。
whatever words they've received,。
whatever signs they can share.。
That's what happens in social media.。
And the crazy thing about it is people believe them.。
They believe them because, well, they're not credible,。
but they're approvable, they're popular,。
they're trendy, and they're pretty,。
and they're funny, and they're witty.。
Instead, I'm gonna believe whatever they have to say。
just because they're charismatic and intelligent.。
Believer, we don't do that.。
We don't just assume someone is speaking truth。
because they're compelling in the way they speak it.。
No, we listen to the words of John.。
First John 4, one says,。
"Beloved, do not believe every spirit,。
"but test the spirits to see whether they're from God,。
"for many false prophets have gone out into the world."。
You hear it?。
We don't trust spirits, we test spirits.。
We take anything anyone has ever said。
and we compare it against everything God has ever said,。
and then we evaluate what is and is not true.。
And the reason why we have to be vigilant in this。
is there are so many people,。
so many so-called Christians here today。
that are willing to leverage the things of God。
for their own personal gain.。
And some of them, they're not hard to spot.。
Christian thirst traps, they're suspect, man.。
You know, you shouldn't really listen to those guys.。
The guy who's like,。
"The devil doesn't want you to keep scrolling,。
"so stop," don't listen to him.。
He's suspect as well.。
Some TikTok prophets, you can look at them and say,。
"Man, you seem like you are completely off the reservation."。
And yet the truth of the matter is,。
while there are some that are so obvious,。
there are some that are not so obvious.。
Listen to me.。
I love you enough to say this to you.。
Your therapist is not Jesus.。
Can they be helpful?。
Absolutely.。
Are they necessary at times in life?。
1,000%.。
Would it serve you to have one?。
I know it served me.。
And yet the truth of the matter is,。
just because your therapist says it。
doesn't mean it's right.。
It isn't confirmed as truth.。
I have met young adults that have foregone。
the biblical counsel of their community。
and the convictions of God's own spirit。
because their therapist disagreed and said so differently.。
Listen, I'm not calling your therapist a false teacher.。
But if they disagree with him, you disagree with them.。
There's only one voice of truth,。
and it is the voice of Jesus.。
I'll give you another one.。
Another good one is your favorite podcaster.。
They aren't Jesus.。
And look, I like podcasts.。
I listen to them myself.。
And yet what you have to know is it doesn't matter。
how much self-help or personal development。
they seem to offer, how many experts。
they bring in and interview,。
how much research they try to share.。
It doesn't matter how convincing they may seem.。
It doesn't make 'em right.。
There's only been one man that's ever been right.。
He was righteous for the unrighteous,。
and his name was Jesus.。
And so if your favorite podcaster disagrees with him,。
then you disagree with them.。
I'll give you one more.。
This is not a comprehensive list,。
but I do think these will be helpful。
because these are really prevalent today.。
Your political party isn't Jesus.。
It's fascinating.。
If you track the data that's really been coming out。
in the articles surrounding it all,。
there is a resurgence of young men。
coming back to the church.。
They're actually outpacing young women。
in their involvement within religious spaces like this.。
And yet according to some publications,。
one being notably the New York Times,。
so much of that spiritual resurgence。
is tied to personal political preference.。
In contrast, young women that are leaving the church,。
they share the same cause.。
They have personal political preference。
that is leading them to do that instead.。
Now, I'm not saying that it's wrong。
to have political positions.。
I think that you should have some,。
you should consider God has given three institutions。
in this world, the church, the family, and the government,。
and so you need to understand what you think。
when it comes to these areas and issues.。
And what I would say though,。
is that your political preference。
doesn't get to shape your beliefs about Jesus.。
Your beliefs about Jesus。
get to shape your political preferences.。
If they disagree with him, you disagree with them.。
Now, let me be abundantly clear。
for the sake of avoiding some emails that may come my way.。
I'm not saying you're a therapist,。
I'm not saying you're a favorite podcaster,。
and I'm not saying your political party is a false teacher.。
But what I am saying。
is that wolves still wear sheep's clothing.。
And so they might sound convincing,。
but you should not be so easily convinced.。
Jesus says in Matthew 10, 16,。
"Behold, I am sending you out as sheep in the midst of wolves。
"so be wise as serpents and innocent as doves."。
You be on guard, Christian,。
and you hold fast to what's true.。
You hold fast to him.。
The next one Paul gives us is in 20 through 22.。
He says, "Now in a great house,。
"there are not only vessels of gold and silver,。
"but also of wood and clay, some for honorable use,。
"some for dishonorable use.。
"Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself。
"from what is dishonorable,。
"he'll be a vessel for honorable use,。
"set apart as holy, useful to the master of the house,。
"ready for every good work."。
22, "So flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness,。
"faith, love, and peace,。
"along with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart."。
The third thing that Paul wants you to know。
if you wanna live an honorable life。
is that you need to separate yourself from worldly passions.。
You need to separate yourself from worldly passions.。
Now, admittedly, there's a lack of consensus。
amongst scholars on what Paul means。
whenever he uses this analogy of gold and silver vessels。
versus those vessels of wood and clay instead.。
Some people, they look at the analogy。
and they think that it's characteristic。
of believers and non-believers,。
that there is a noble and ignoble use.。
The other side of the fence would say。
that it's not a reference to believer, non-believer,。
it's a reference to different classes of believers,。
those that are honorable and those that are dishonorable,。
and yet all of them are vessels within the same house,。
and so therefore, they are all saved by faith.。
At the end of the day,。
it does not matter what your interpretation is。
because the takeaway is the same for both.。
We all want to be vessels of honor.。
That's the takeaway.。
You want to be a vessel of honorable use.。
Like nobody wants to be a dog bowl.。
Everybody wants to be fine china.。
Why?。
Because a dog bowl, it sits on the ground,。
it's likely chewed up, you don't wash it off in the sink,。
you rinse it off with a water hose.。
But if you think about fine china,。
fine china is arranged in a cabinet,。
it's put on display for all to see,。
is only ever pulled out for the most distinguished of guests.。
Now, is it true that you could use both。
for the same purpose?。
I guess.。
But nobody wants you to do that.。
Nobody wants you to pull out a dog bowl。
and serve them dinner in it.。
Why?。
Because that is not honorable, that is dishonorable,。
that is deeply offensive.。
God is pulling together believers for honorable purpose.。
For honorable purpose.。
For that which is important and special and distinct.。
Don't you want that to be your story?。
Then what you must do is you must cleanse yourself。
of what is dishonorable.。
How do you do that?。
You do so in two different ways.。
Paul tells us, number one,。
you cleanse yourself of what is dishonorable,。
and number two, you flee youthful passions and lusts.。
He says you cleanse yourself of what's dishonorable.。
I love this.。
I love the word cleanse.。
It's the same word for catharsis.。
Most people, whenever they try to do some catharsis,。
are trying to engage in activity。
that changes their mentality.。
They've got some stress or some raw emotions。
that they need to work out.。
And so what they'll do is they'll go to the gym。
because they know, you know what,。
I gotta sweat this thing out.。
Or they're gonna pour themselves a bubble bath。
and a glass of wine, and they're gonna lay back,。
and they're gonna try to unwind in that space,。
or they're gonna find a friend,。
and they're gonna emotionally dump on that friend。
because they've gotta vent out their frustrations.。
Instead, or they'll go for a run。
and they'll listen to Olivia Rodrigo。
or whatever angsty teen music you like。
because that's gonna help you process。
everything that you're emoting inside.。
I don't know what it is for you,。
and yet the reality is we need to change our thinking.。
That's what it means to go through a cathartic experience.。
It's an activity that changes your mentality.。
And Paul is saying to cleanse yourself。
is to write your mindset.。
I love the way one pastor said, he said,。
"Your mindset is determined by what you set your mind on."。
So let me ask you, what are you setting your mind on?。
And I wanna challenge you, like really think about it.。
Like don't just consider like,。
well, what kind of music do I listen to?。
No, why don't you consider what kind of lyrics。
are found within the music you listen to?。
Would you be comfortable reading those to your mom?。
How about the shows you watch?。
Not just, well, it's a teenage drama.。
Why don't you consider what's the message of that show?。
Would you be willing to defend that。
in front of a room like this right now?。
Maybe it's not that.。
Maybe it's your calendar.。
Your schedule reflects your priorities.。
If we looked at yours, would we actually see。
that the things you claim to care about,。
you back up with a life that cares about them?。
Maybe it's not that.。
When you and your friends talk about other people,。
because listen, we know that you do.。
When you and your friends get together。
and you talk about other people,。
would you be embarrassed to tell the person。
you're talking about what exactly was said about them?。
First Corinthians 15, 33 says, "Do not be deceived.。
"Bad company ruins good morals."。
If you wanna change your mindset, friend, listen,。
you need to change the things that you set your mind on.。
That's the first thing.。
Cleanse yourself of dishonorable,。
of that which is dishonorable.。
The second thing Paul says is you need to flee youthful lusts.。
That word flee is one of my favorite words in Greek。
because it's the word fugo or fuego,。
and the idea is it's the same root word behind fugitive.。
It means to flee or to escape or to run away.。
Now, no one's ever met a fugitive。
who looked at them and said, "I don't know, man.。
"I'm really struggling to get away。
"from the people that are chasing me.。
"Like, it's so hard not to go back."。
No, they'd be a really bad fugitive。
if that's the way they reacted.。
What do they do?。
They know, "My life depends on me running,。
"getting away, escaping to the hills."。
And so what they do is they run as fast。
and as far as they can,。
and we should do the same when it comes to sin。
because just as their freedom depends on it,。
your freedom depends on it too.。
And yet here's the thing, as I talk to young adults,。
every single week right down here at the foot of the stage,。
I find within people just like yourself。
that one of two things is often true.。
One, we're not willing to run fast enough.。
Well, Kylan, it's almost the holidays.。
I know I've kind of got a problem with alcohol,。
but everyone's coming in。
and they're going to be opening up the liquor cabinet,。
and I want to be able to enjoy what everybody's enjoying.。
It's going to ruin my experience.。
You're not willing to move fast enough then.。
Others of you, you know, like,。
"Man, we've crossed so many boundaries in my relationship,。
"and he's not a believer, she's not a believer,。
"and we're just toxic together."。
But you know what?。
Like, they've really shown promise.。
I think that they may actually be able。
to pull this thing through.。
You know, we've had some spiritual conversations.。
That gives me a lot of hope for the future.。
And the reality is you need to break up.。
You're just not willing to move fast enough.。
Others, it's not that you're unwilling to move fast enough.。
It's that you're not willing to go far enough.。
Like, you won't actually get a dumb phone。
even though that's the quickest way。
to you getting over your porn addiction.。
Some of you, you're unwilling to deactivate。
your social media even though you know.。
All it does is breed envy and discontentment in your life.。
Others, you won't stop hanging out with those friends。
even though cutting them out of your life,。
and yes, I know that's a biting thing to say.。
It feels even maybe slightly aggressive from this stage,。
but cutting them out of your life。
is actually the best way to preserve your godliness.。
You're not willing to go far enough.。
Now, as I say all this, here's the thing I know.。
I know it can feel like Christianity is such a drag.。
It can feel like such a killjoy.。
Like, Kyle, what are you telling me then?。
Like, I'm never gonna listen to good music again?。
You're telling me like I'm not allowed。
to have any fun whatsoever,。
that I have to forego all entertainment。
for the rest of my days,。
and I'm gonna be alone for the rest of my life?。
No, I'm not saying that in the slightest.。
What I'm saying is that Paul certainly says,。
hey, there are some things you need to flee,。
but he doesn't stop there.。
He tells you there are also some things you need to pursue.。
You need to pursue righteousness and faith and love。
and peace along with those who call on the Lord。
from a pure heart.。
Listen to me, that is way more。
than some religious rhetoric that Paul's throwing at you.。
That is the promise of a radical reality。
that comes with Christ.。
Like, you pursue righteousness,。
a guilt-free sort of existence。
where you never have to fear being found out.。
Don't you want that?。
The kind of freedom where you're not worried about,。
like, man, well, they're gonna hear what I did last weekend。
or what I have done in the past。
or what I said to that person.。
You don't have to live in that kind of fear.。
You get to have freedom instead because you're righteous.。
You get to pursue love,。
not a love that's transactional,。
quid pro quo, this for that,。
as long as I do well by you, you'll do well by me.。
No, it's not a transactional or conditional kind of love.。
It is a kind of love that is afforded to you。
whether you do or do not do,。
whether you do or do not deserve it.。
You get to pursue faith.。
This one's so amazing.。
Like, you don't have to settle。
for a simple and a safe kind of life.。
Instead, you can dare to dream and live and venture。
into something that's big and bold and brave and beautiful.。
Instead, you get to go with God.。
You get to pursue peace.。
Like, in a world that is spinning out of control,。
it is absolutely chaotic.。
Everyone is anxious right now.。
You don't have to be。
because you know who is in control.。
You know God sits on his throne,。
that he is in fact sovereign.。
He rules and he reigns all things.。
Nothing happens or does not happen。
that he does not allow nor speak into.。
Everything accords with his will and his word.。
And so you can have peace.。
Don't you hear me on this?。
It's not that you're settling for a lesser life.。
You are trading in for a better one.。
The Christian life is not secondary。
to the secular lifestyle.。
It's supreme.。
It's better.。
It's better.。
And it's time some of you believe it.。
It's time some of you live it so you might believe it.。
Last one, verse 23.。
Have nothing to do with foolish, ignorant controversies.。
You know they breed quarrels.。
Lord's servants, not meant to be quarrelsome,。
but kind to everyone, able to teach,。
patiently enduring evil,。
correcting his opponents with gentleness.。
God may perhaps grant them repentance。
leading to a knowledge of the truth.。
And they may come to their senses。
and escape from the snare of the devil。
after being captured by him to do his will.。
Your last point, if you want to live a life of honor。
is you got to focus on the person past the problem.。
You got to focus on the person past the problem.。
If you look at the context of what Paul is saying here,。
he's saying that we should engage with people,。
but not a people that are easy to love。
and man, they're just, they're the chillest personality。
and they're so laid back to spend time with.。
No, he's saying you should engage with a people。
that stir up ignorant controversies.。
Like people that get in your face,。
that disagree with what you believe,。
that criticize your own positions.。
And that's why you got to stay focused.。
That's why it's important for us to stay focused。
because we got to avoid unsportsmanlike conduct penalties.。
What I mean by that is football players,。
they get called for being unsportsmanlike, why?。
Because they lost their focus.。
They forgot the greater goal, winning the game.。
And instead they only saw red。
for the guy that got crossed with them,。
the one that offended them,。
the ones that they got to get back.。
You know, like that's what happens.。
And what ends up happening to them。
is the same thing that happens to us in the Christian life,。
in the church itself, whenever we see red。
and we choose to retaliate instead of offer grace。
and move in for the person instead of the problem.。
What happens is they get penalized.。
The same thing happens to us, your witness gets penalized.。
Like when you respond and you're enraged。
or you're impatient or you're angry or whatever it may be,。
that doesn't lead people to Christ.。
No one is strong-armed into salvation.。
No one's argued into heaven.。
No one's wrestled into redemption.。
You know, like at the end of the day,。
conversion does not come through cognition, what you know.。
It comes through conviction, what you believe.。
So Romans 1:16 says, "For I'm not ashamed of the gospel,。
"for it is the power of God for salvation."。
It is the power of God.。
What, the gospel is the power of God.。
Not you, you're not the power of God unto salvation.。
Not the porch, the porch is not the power of God。
unto salvation.。
Not Watermark, not whatever church it is。
that you're a part of, that you're listening to right now.。
Nothing else is the power of God unto salvation。
but the gospel.。
We gotta keep that in focus.。
Because even though someone may feel so off their rocker,。
like they may feel way past your help,。
beyond anyone's reach, this tells us,。
God may perhaps grant them repentance,。
leading to a knowledge of the truth,。
and they may come to their senses.。
That word is sobriety.。
They might be sobered and escape the snare of the devil.。
What it tells us is the same truth。
that Dietrich Bonhoeffer tells us.。
He's quoted saying, "We must learn to regard people。
less in the light of what they do or omit to do,。
and we must regard them instead。
in light of what they suffer."。
You see, ultimately, we don't regard people。
in light of what they say.。
We regard them in light of what they suffer.。
They're captive, they're captive to an enemy,。
they're bound to do his will,。
and yet, perhaps, God might save them.。
That changes everything.。
Because even though it is God who does the work,。
often, he does that work through you,。
and it's not by way of your impressiveness,。
it is by way of your graciousness.。
That's what Paul goes on.。
He says, "Your speech should be characterized。
by four particular graces."。
The first one is it should be kind.。
Your grace, I mean, your speech should be kind.。
That word carries the idea of a gentleness,。
that it is not unnecessarily harsh.。
So think of it like this.。
Your words should be like that towel。
you dry your face with in the morning。
when you arise and you wash.。
You want it to be soft.。
You don't want it to be sandpaper.。
Your words should not be coarse like sandpaper.。
They should be kind instead.。
That's what he's getting at,。
and yet, I know some of you, you hear that,。
and you're like, "Hold on, man.。
Jesus, he was corrective.。
He was coarse at times.。
He was even harsh in different moments."。
And yet, what you need to know。
is Jesus never spoke an unkind word。
to someone that did not,。
or he never spoke an unkind word。
to those that did not believe.。
He was always kind to the unbelieving,。
and we should be too, because Romans 2:4 tells us,。
"Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness。
and forbearance and patience,"。
not knowing that it's God's kindness。
that's meant to lead you to repentance.。
It's kindness that cultivates the hearts of people。
to receive the good news.。
The second thing we know is that we should speak。
in a way that is informed.。
That's what he tells us,。
and the reason why is because when people come。
and they ask you questions,。
you want to have a good answer。
for why you believe what you believe.。
So previously, in a different ministry,。
we would gather volunteer candidates,。
people that wanted to serve alongside us,。
and we would ask them one of the most important questions。
within the entire interview process,。
which was, "Can you share the gospel。
with us in your own words?"。
And the reason we would do that isn't because。
we didn't think they knew it.。
No, we would do that with them。
because we knew they would need it.。
Like, someone's going to hear that you believe in God,。
you have met Jesus, and they're gonna wanna understand。
what then are the implications of all of that,。
and giving responses like, "Well, it's the news of grace,"。
or, "God loves you."。
Like, that's not sufficient.。
It's not informed enough.。
No, you need to speak very specifically。
about what Christ has done,。
that he has lived the life that we could not,。
that he died the death we all deserve,。
that he rose forth beating death by death itself,。
that any who would place their faith in him。
would realize they too can be saved of their sins,。
that they can follow him as the Lord of their life.。
It is imperative that we are an informed people.。
The third thing Paul says, that we should be patient,。
that we should be able to endure evil, is the idea there.。
Why does this one matter?。
Because the world really sucks at this one.。
The world is not good。
at patiently enduring one another's evil.。
Instead, when someone cusses you out, you cuss them back.。
When someone hits you, you hit them harder.。
Like, that's the mentality of our world,。
and yet that is not the case for the Christian.。
Why?。
Because that is not the case for our Christ.。
We know Jesus, he endured evil,。
and he did so not just in his life,。
he did so in his death,。
and he did so so patiently, so astoundingly,。
that after he surrendered his life to God。
and he breathed his last,。
that centurion which stood there by the side。
said, "Surely that man,。
"and the way he has suffered so well,。
"is the son of God."。
People, they will not be convinced by how strong you are.。
They will be convinced by how well you suffer.。
You don't need to retaliate to evil.。
You need to respond with grace.。
You need to be patient.。
And the last one he says is that you should be civil.。
I love this one, because Paul tells us here。
at the very end of the letter for all of you,。
that are, man, you're just kind of uncomfortable。
in your seat 'cause you wanna get up。
and you wanna say something.。
He's like, "Hey, you need to get up。
"and you need to say something.。
"There are going to be moments。
"where you need to correct someone's thinking.。
"You need to challenge their position.。
"You need to offer a recommendation.。
"There are going to be moments where you do that,。
"and yet, listen to me,。
"though you may disagree with people,。
"you always do so with civility."。
We're bad at this right now.。
We look across our culture。
and we see plenty of disagreement,。
but we see so much indignity.。
We don't know how to conflict and keep our composure.。
There's a story that I think articulates。
what we should do instead so well.。
It's about 200 years old,。
the conversation between a guy named Charles Simeon。
and John Wesley, one was a staunch Calvinist,。
the other a staunch Arminian.。
And you don't need to know the distinctions。
of what those things mean。
if you've never heard those phrases before,。
but what you need to know is。
this was essentially a theological turf battle.。
These guys, they are doctrinally distinct,。
to say the least.。
They are sitting down to have a conversation。
about their own personal positions,。
and they know this thing is gonna come to blows。
because we don't believe similarly on some key issues。
in areas of the faith.。
And yet, Charles Simeon, he says this.。
Speaking to John, he says,。
"Sir, I understand that you're called an Arminian,。
and I have been sometimes called a Calvinist.。
And therefore, I suppose we're to draw daggers.。
But before I consent to begin that combat。
with your permission, I'd like to ask a few questions."。
And what proceeds in the dialogue is Charles asking John,。
"Do you believe that you are lost。
in the trespasses of your sin。
and you cannot save yourself?"。
Yes, I do believe that.。
"Do you believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God。
and he has come to save your soul?"。
Yes, I do believe that.。
"Do you believe God's grace is a gift。
which we do not earn, we only receive?"。
Yes, I do believe that, Charles.。
"Do you believe that your future hope and home is in heaven。
because he's gone to prepare a place for you?"。
Yes, I believe that as well.。
And at the end of his inquisition, Charles looks at John.。
He says, "Then, sir, with your leave,。
I will put up my dagger.。
If you please, instead of searching out our terms。
and our phrases to be a ground of contention between us,。
a cause of conflict,。
let's instead cordially unite with one another。
in those things upon which we agree."。
I love it.。
Charles articulates for us。
that disagreement is possible。
without the indignity of robbing someone。
of their God-given image.。
And the reason we know it is because at one time,。
all of who God is disagreed with all of who we are.。
He's holy.。
We are unholy.。
He's loving.。
We are unloving.。
He is merciful.。
We are merciless.。
He is righteous.。
We are unrighteous.。
He is good.。
And we are evil.。
And yet, though all of who God is disagreed with,。
all of who we are,。
he nonetheless dignified us。
by sending Jesus。
to avoid unproductive disagreements。
and reconcile disparate parties instead,。
to guard against ungodly influences,。
teaching us that which is true in the face of a world。
that specializes in what's false instead.。
He separated us from worldly passions,。
dying our death upon our cross。
and taking our ungodly and worldly passions with them.。
And he focused on the person past the problem,。
for he never lost sight of you。
in his pursuit to save you。
from that which had condemned you.。
Don't you see,。
if you want to live your life with honor,。
then look to he who died your death.。
With honor.。
He is the way.。
He is the truth.。
He is the life.。
And I'm praying you would know him as such.。
God, we're grateful that we have time now,。
not just to study some scripture,。
but God, to hear you speak,。
not just to sing some songs,。
but God, celebrate your glory.。
Not just to feel some conviction。
but respond to your spirit speaking.。
It puts us in a spot right now where God,。
we get to engage with you.。
We get to respond to you.。
We get to rejoice for the gospel,。
which has saved those who believe.。
God, we want to be honorable。
in the face of a dishonoring day.。
And Jesus, it is in you that we see the example。
and we follow here right now.。
We love you.。
It's in your name we pray, amen.。
