(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
- All right, what's up Fort Worth?。
Hello Dallas, how y'all doing tonight?。
Good, yeah?。
A couple, some people are doing good.。
Any pet or animal lovers in the room?。
(audience cheering)。
Oh yeah, or should I say Christians in the room?。
I don't want to name names,。
but I work with some non-animal lovers, Greg.。
And any dog lovers?。
(audience cheering)。
There you go, any cat lovers?。
(audience cheering)。
That is, you need evidence for the fall of man.。
There it is.。
I don't know if you're the kind of person,。
if you're a dog lover, you probably are,。
that when you see a dog that's like on the loose。
in your neighborhood that you think has a collar,。
you'll stop or you'll try to go,。
and if they're not with any person around them,。
you'll try to go and get the dog。
or look at the collar to see if it has tags.。
Anyone do this?。
Yes, no, maybe?。
The rest, how dare you?。
What kind of people are you?。
And so when I see a dog like that,。
I don't know if it's the Holy Spirit or like guilt,。
probably not from the Spirit,。
but I'm like, oh man, I need to go look at this dog。
and try to get it back to its owner.。
So anytime I do that, I'll go look and see if it has tags.。
And the most memorable occasion where this happened。
was not long ago, and I ended up regretting。
that I had made the decision to do this.。
I was actually coming back from walking my dog at night。
or throwing the ball from him in Glencoe Park,。
which is in the M Streets in Dallas,。
which we used to live in,。
and I was coming back from that.。
In the M Streets, we live between Greenville and 75,。
which is an area in Dallas, and I was driving him back.。
He's sitting shotgun, he's like a lab size.。
And I see this pit bull in the front of someone's yard。
that's like walking from house to house.。
There's no one around, so I'm like, great.。
Gotta go see who this dog is, bring him home with me.。
And I drive up to the dog,。
and it begins running away from me.。
It begins running to the next house.。
And so I'm like, great, and it does have a collar,。
it does have tags.。
I need to continue going after this dog.。
So I finally pull into this house。
that was some random house that the dog was in front of,。
and I begin to get out of my car。
to move towards the dog.。
I'm sitting there, my dog's sitting shotgun.。
This is what you do if you don't have kids,。
you tell dog stories.。
So I'm sitting there, and my dog's sitting shotgun.。
(audience laughing)。
And I begin to open the door to go look at this dog,。
and immediately in an instant, my dog jumps over my lap。
and runs after the other dog,。
and they both take off all the way down Martell,。
or all the way down this street.。
I'm there in like slippers and pajama pants, be jealous.。
And I'm like, oh my gosh, so I take off,。
I leave the car door open with the keys in it,。
in front of their house,。
and I take off sprinting after my dog,。
and they end up going around another street。
and headed back towards on like Mattelie or something,。
towards Greenville.。
And I continue to chase after them in slippers,。
and I'm yelling behind the dog, stop, stop.。
And I see them approaching Greenville,。
and they're getting closer to Greenville,。
and I'm going, oh my gosh, I'm trying to save this dog,。
I'm gonna lose my dog.。
They're gonna go form a little colony somewhere,。
and this dog is now taking away from me,。
or they're gonna get hit on Greenville,。
so I'm sprinting deeply out of breath。
because I don't run anywhere,。
and I'm trying to catch up to these dogs,。
and then all of a sudden,。
right before they get to Greenville,。
this man and his dog pull around the corner,。
which of course stopped my dogs,。
because they do the official like dog greeting.。
Won't even go into that.。
And they're stopping there, I'm like yelling,。
stop, please come, the dog.。
And I finally get over there, I get to the dog,。
and now I have both of them,。
and I'm taking them back, and I've got my dog,。
and I'm like, I am out of shape, big time at this point.。
I end up throwing up in somebody's bushes,。
literally on Greenville.。
Probably not the first time that's happened in Greenville.。
And so if that was you, I apologize.。
But I'm taking my dog, and the dog,。
the other one takes off again.。
And I'm like, okay, we are done.。
I don't even know if my car is still there.。
You're on your own, buddy, okay?。
And we walk back to my car, put him in,。
and I go back home, and just like still throwing up,。
'cause I'm so out of shape.。
But it was one of those moments where my threshold。
of how much will I go after this stray or runaway。
was clearly put to the test.。
Although I think I'm kind of the person。
that would go after the runaway,。
and that moment it's like, well, every man for himself.。
And so the reason I set up with that story。
is because I think as it relates to the topic of runaways,。
and how to deal with strays or runaways,。
not speaking with dogs anymore, but speaking with people,。
how does God deal with the runaway?。
How does God approach the person who's running from him。
or who is strayed?。
Strayed means not where they're supposed to be,。
in life, in a relationship.。
How does God approach or view the runaway?。
Because all of us at some point in our life。
will be running away from God。
if you haven't gone through that season。
or you're in that season, some of you in this room,。
and you know you are.。
And so how does God view you?。
Really, the question, in finding the answer。
about how we think God views the runaway,。
the person who's running from him,。
tells us what and how we view God,。
tells us how we view God's grace.。
Maybe you're the type of person that would say,。
God, with the runaway, if I ran from God,。
I've trusted in Christ, I know there's nothing he would do.。
He would not stop chasing me.。
There's no point he'd say, I give up.。
Nothing can separate me from the love of Christ,。
you would say.。
I mean, but really, do you really think that?。
Like, if you got into a dark place,。
you got into some sort of crazy addiction for years。
and you totally walked away from your life,。
do you really think that?。
Maybe if you're honest, you'd say,。
yeah, I would say I think that,。
but really I think I just probably。
will never be bad enough to run.。
Or maybe you're on the other side of the group。
where you go, yeah, God, runaways,。
God will let you run away.。
If you abandon God, he will abandon you.。
That's why you gotta keep coming to church,。
gotta keep living it out and digging into the word.。
That's what you gotta do.。
If you run away from him, he's gonna run away from you.。
But how does God view runaways?。
Really, this is a question taught all throughout the Bible。
and tonight as we wrap up Colossians,。
and we're gonna explore the story of a man who was a runaway.。
And in doing so, we're gonna see something about。
not only this man in the story, but about our story.。
And about the God who is in the heart of God himself.。
So we're gonna be in Colossians chapter four.。
If you have a Bible, you can flip open to Colossians.。
If you don't know where Colossians is,。
there's a table of contents in the front.。
I would go there and it should tell you where to go and flip。
and we're gonna pick it up in verse seven of chapter four。
as we wrap up this series on Colossians.。
Paul is about to give us his farewell speech。
or farewell address to the church in Colossae.。
And he's gonna write, he's gonna give us a bunch of names。
that really we don't use anymore。
and they're kind of funny names.。
But in doing so, he's gonna give us a particular story。
of one person we're gonna focus in on。
and really give us some other farewell greetings。
that he gives inside of this letter.。
So we're gonna pick it up at verse seven.。
So there's gonna be a ton of names。
and then I'll kind of recap and say where we're going.。
Verse seven.。
Tychicus will tell you, this is Paul who's in Rome,。
in prison, writing a letter to the church in Colossae.。
Here's where we go.。
Tychicus will tell you, Colossians, all the news about me.。
So Tychicus is coming.。
He is a dear brother and a faithful minister。
and fellow servant in the Lord.。
I'm sending him to you for the express purpose。
that you may know about our circumstances。
and that he may encourage your hearts.。
He is coming with Onesimus, our faithful and dear brother。
who is one of you.。
They will tell you everything that is happening here.。
My fellow prisoner, Aristarchus,。
just go forward with confidence,。
sends you his greetings as does Mark,。
which feels like too normal of a name to be in this passage.。
The cousin of Barnabas.。
There we go, another unusual one.。
You have received instructions about Mark.。
If he comes to you, welcome him.。
Jesus, who is also called Justice, wonder why.。
It's like, hey buddy, we're gonna call you Justice.。
There's only one Jesus.。
Jesus, who's also called Justice, also sends greetings.。
That's not in there.。
What's wrong with me?。
These are the only Jews among my coworkers。
for the kingdom of God,。
and they've proved to be a comfort to me.。
Epaphras, who's one of you and a servant of Christ,。
Jesus sends greetings.。
He's always wrestling in prayer for you。
that you may stand firm in all the will of God,。
mature and fully assured.。
I vouch for him that he's working hard for you。
and for those in Laodicea and Heropolis,。
two nearby cities to Colossae.。
Our dear friend Luke, the doctor, and Demas send greetings.。
Give my greetings to the brothers and sisters at Laodicea。
and to Nympha and the church in her house.。
So Paul basically wraps up and he's closing the letter。
and he gives all these different farewell addresses.。
What I wanna hone in on tonight。
is a verse that he just gave us。
about a particular man named Onesimus.。
And the story of Onesimus, I think,。
is one of the greatest runaway redemption stories。
of all time.。
You may know some great runaway stories,。
Homeward Bound, Fievel Goes West,。
and I don't know what, Lion King, maybe?。
What is Disney?。
What's wrong?。
So anyways, it's one of the greatest never heard of。
redemption/runaway stories,。
and we're gonna find it in the story of Onesimus.。
And it's not only just this verse,。
but another book inside of the Bible。
that will help us understand the story.。
It's actually another book that was written。
to the church in Colossae.。
You may not know this,。
but just like Ephesians was written to the church in Ephesus。
and Galatians was written to the church in Galatia,。
Colossians was written to the church in Colossae.。
But that's not the only letter that was written。
to the church in Colossae.。
There's another one.。
Anyone know what it is?。
Front row.。
- Philemon.。
- Philemon, that's right, Philemon.。
Philemon is another letter, or another book。
that's inside of our New Testament。
that addresses the church in Colossae,。
the church in Colossae that met in Philemon's home.。
And so really, inside of that book,。
which tells the story of Onesimus and Philemon,。
and this verse right here,。
we're gonna find our story of the runaway Onesimus.。
But here's how it all starts out.。
So before this letter had even been sent。
and read by the Colossians,。
the origins of the church in Colossae,。
we're gonna have to go back there.。
So I'm gonna make it as interesting,。
we're gonna use some maps as we can.。
But here's what happens.。
So Paul goes to, you can put up that first map, Daniel.。
Paul goes to the church, or Paul goes to the city of Ephesus.。
So Christianity starts, the movement's on its way.。
They go to all these different cities,。
and a number of the different cities are kinda on here,。
and these are some of the major and more influential ones.。
Paul, who becomes this incredible missionary,。
goes to the city of Ephesus.。
And he's there, and this is in Acts 20,。
we find out that Paul sets up shop for three years,。
longest duration of time he's spent anywhere in the Bible.。
So the apostle Paul, you've heard of him,。
he's sitting up there, he's working in the church in Ephesus。
and doing ministry.。
And so while he's there, there's a man by the name。
of Philemon, who lives in the city of Colossae.。
And he decides one day to do what many people did。
in this area, and take a trip over to Ephesus.。
He was like to San Diego, we're gonna do shopping。
at this port city for a day.。
So he takes a trip with his family, they go to Ephesus,。
they're gonna do some shopping in Ephesus,。
for who knows what, pita bread.。
And he's hanging out in Ephesus, and he somehow meets Paul.。
And Philemon becomes a follower of Jesus.。
We discover this inside of the book of Philemon.。
And so Philemon meets Paul, he becomes a Christian,。
and he and his family go back,。
and they start the church in Colossians.。
And so now, the church is going, and things are going great,。
Epaphras, who is in there, is helping along with that.。
But Philemon's got this church going thing,。
and while that's taking place, Paul is sent to Rome.。
So our next map up there, where Paul,。
a couple years later, is imprisoned in Rome.。
Basically the emperor, and he was awaiting trial for that,。
and Paul, you're spreading this movement,。
you're going to Rome, he's in government housing,。
under house arrest over there, and he's arrested.。
So everybody with me?。
So Philemon's in Colossae, Paul's now back in Rome.。
And then one day, Philemon goes into his house,。
and he discovers two things.。
His slave, named Onesimus, this house slave,。
who he provided for and cared for,。
had stolen things from him, and had taken off.。
Onesimus looks at his master and decides,。
you know what, Onesimus is not a believer,。
all we know about him is he is a criminal slave。
who steals from Philemon, this man who had provided for him,。
and he uses that money to finance a trip,。
and where do you think he goes?。
He goes to the biggest city in the world at the time, Rome.。
So Onesimus takes off and journeys all the way to Rome,。
it's like Miami to New York City.。
He goes to the Big Apple, he goes to the big city,。
there's a million people there,。
he's gonna restart his life.。
Maybe you've been there before,。
you've lived in some small town in the country,。
and you decided, I'm gonna move to Dallas。
and get a new start, and so Philemon,。
or Onesimus decides, I'm gonna go get a new start,。
I've got some cash on me, I'm gonna get a fresh start,。
and he steals from his master,。
and goes and runs away to the city of Rome.。
But no doubt, Onesimus always looked over his shoulder,。
because if you were a runaway slave and you were discovered,。
the penalty was crucifixion.。
So he's trying to keep it,。
this is like Jean Valjean stuff from Les Mis,。
he's trying to keep it a secret,。
he's living in this new town, but he's a man with a past,。
he's a criminal and he's a runaway rebel.。
A man who had turned his back。
on the one who had cared for him, Philemon.。
A man who had stolen what wasn't his,。
to go and live and do whatever he wanted to do.。
And inside of the city of Rome, this is so crazy,。
this is in your Bible, you should read your Bible.。
Inside of Rome, guess who Onesimus bumps into?。
Paul.。
How and why, we don't exactly understand,。
but inside of this enormous city,。
as God's sovereignty is at work,。
Onesimus bumps into none other than the apostle Paul,。
a million, biggest city in the world.。
He bumps into Paul, who's underneath house arrest,。
and so we don't understand, maybe he got into trouble,。
and he knew that Paul had been an influence。
on his master, Philemon, so he was like,。
"I'm in trouble, I'll go to Paul, I know he can help me."。
We don't know, but we do know。
that they bumped into one another,。
and Paul begins to explain the gospel to Onesimus.。
He begins to explain the cross of Christ,。
that Jesus on the cross paid for all mankind's sins,。
and anyone who will trust in them。
has all of their sins paid for, past, present, and future,。
not by doing anything, just by trusting in him,。
and Onesimus accepts Christ and becomes a follower of God.。
I mean, this is like a Charles Dickens plot,。
it's unbelievable, and so inside of the city,。
but here's what's amazing even more about this story,。
this criminal man who had done nothing right,。
he'd done nothing right, he hadn't returned,。
he didn't go back to his master and say, "I'm really sorry,"。
and Paul says, "You are totally forgiven, Onesimus.。
"You're totally made clean.。
"You criminal felon who deserve crucifixion,。
"it's been paid for, it's been totally paid for."。
But God, he's a criminal, he needs to at least go back。
and say he's sorry, he needs to make up for it.。
He's on Rome's most wanted list,。
and God says, "He's been on my most wanted list。
"since the day he was born, and I've paid for all of it."。
And he's totally accepted, totally forgiven,。
before he had done anything right.。
God says, "I love Onesimus.。
"I was crucified so he wouldn't have to be."。
And that brings us really to the first point。
of tonight's message, of just this idea。
that there is no past more powerful。
than the forgiveness of God.。
There is no past in this room,。
there is no present condition in this room,。
there is nothing that you have done or that I have done。
that is more powerful than the blood of Jesus.。
And here's why I think Onesimus probably could accept。
like, "Hey, I'm a criminal, but God forgives me.。
"God who is there forgives me,。
"despite everything that I've done,。
"despite having turned my back on my master,。
"God forgives me."。
Because of the man who told him about the forgiveness.。
You remember, it was Paul.。
But Paul wasn't always Paul,。
Paul was the artist formerly known as Saul, right?。
Saul was a man who had murdered Christians.。
If anybody can take the excuse off the table of,。
"No, but you don't know what I've done.。
"God's grace couldn't be enough for me.。
"You don't know my past."。
There is no past more powerful than God's forgiveness.。
And Paul, who had murdered Christians,。
says it's been paid for Onesimus,。
it's been totally paid for.。
I mean, even today,。
Paul removes this excuse for anyone in this room。
who's going, "Yeah, but you don't know what I've done."。
A lot of times we'll meet with people down here。
and I'll hear that all the time.。
"Yeah, but you don't know, it's worse than you think.。
"In five years, I've never met with someone。
"who has murdered Christians down here."。
Maybe you're in the room, but let us know.。
(audience laughing)。
Bad joke.。
But Paul removes that excuse,。
that regardless of what you've done,。
there is no sin, past, present, future。
that is more powerful than the blood of Jesus,。
than what Jesus has done on the cross.。
If you're going, "No, but I had an abortion.。
"I live in a homosexual relationship right now.。
"I am addicted to pain meds."。
Whatever the case is,。
there is nothing in your past or your present or future。
that is more powerful than the forgiveness of God。
if you've trusted in Christ.。
That's the message.。
There is nothing in your past.。
And so remove that off the table。
if you're going, "Yeah, but I've done some bad things."。
You're worse than you think.。
But as bad as you are in reality and I am in reality,。
there's no past more powerful than the forgiveness of God.。
And he offers it to all of us who will accept it.。
And if you have trusted in Christ。
and you don't believe your sin is forgiven,。
that's like looking God in the face and saying,。
"Your son's murder was not enough.。
"I need two Jesuses.。
"I need Jesus," and you throw in something else.。
It wasn't enough.。
And Paul to Onesimus says, "It's been paid for.。
"You're totally forgiven the moment you accept it,。
"the moment you put your trust in what Jesus has done."。
Your past doesn't define you, Jesus does.。
One day Paul goes to Onesimus and Paul's in prison。
and Onesimus is coming back and forth to him。
and Paul says, "Onesimus, you gotta go back.。
"I want you to go back to Colossae.。
"I want you to go back to Philemon."。
And Onesimus is going, "No, Paul, I'm gonna be murdered.。
"I'll be killed, I'll be crucified."。
The most common crucifixions were to slaves,。
many of whom had run away.。
That was the penalty.。
And Paul says, "No, no, no, I want you to go back。
"and I'm gonna pay for whatever you've done.。
"I'll cover it."。
And he hands him, along with Tychicus,。
who we read of earlier, he gives them these two letters,。
one named Colossians and one named Philemon.。
And he says, "Give this one to the church in Colossians.。
"Give this one to the church in Colossians,。
"but first to Philemon."。
And they set off on this journey,。
which had to be a long journey for Onesimus,。
who's going, "Am I gonna be killed?。
"What's gonna happen?"。
And when they show up, the letter is handed to Philemon。
and I just wanna read you parts of it。
that help further unfold this story.。
Paul, a prisoner of, this is verse one of Philemon,。
if you wanna turn there or you can follow along later.。
Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus and Timothy, our brother,。
to Philemon, our dear friend and fellow worker,。
and also to Appiah, who's his wife,。
and to Archippus, we read of him earlier,。
our fellow soldier,。
and to the church that meets in your home.。
I prefer to appeal to you on the basis of love, verse nine.。
It is none other than Paul, an old man,。
and now a prisoner of Christ Jesus,。
that I appeal to you for my son, Onesimus.。
He became my son, spiritually speaking,。
when I was in chains.。
Formerly, he was useless to you,。
but now he has become useful,。
that he's been changed, that he's trusted in Jesus,。
and he's a changed man, Philemon, both to you and to me.。
I'm sending him, who is my very heart, back to you.。
I love this next verse, verse 15.。
Perhaps the reason he was separated from you。
for a little while was that you may have him back forever.。
Perhaps the reason, Philemon,。
that God allowed Onesimus to steal from you。
and run to the edge of the earth。
is in order that he would bump into a man。
who would tell him the forgiveness of Christ,。
and then he would live forever with you.。
Perhaps that's what God was doing,。
taking what we intended for evil,。
and using it for good, Philemon.。
Verse 16, you would have him back forever,。
no longer as a slave, but better than a slave,。
as a dear brother.。
He's very dear to me and even dearer to you,。
both as a fellow man and as a brother in the Lord,。
this criminal convict.。
If he has done anything wrong or owes you anything,。
charge it to me.。
I, Paul, write this with my own hand.。
I will pay it back.。
Oh my gosh, I love that.。
Here's what's so powerful about this story.。
We're all Onesimuses.。
That's your story and my story.。
Just like Paul said, I will pay it.。
Whatever he's done, I didn't do it, but I will pay for it.。
Martin Luther said the story of Onesimus。
is the story of the gospel.。
He steps in and Jesus says, I will pay for it.。
Let them go free and crucify me.。
I'll pay for it, because here's our second point.。
Jesus loves the runaway, like you.。
Jesus loves runaways like you and like me.。
And the story of Onesimus is a man who stole,。
took what didn't belong to him.。
Just like you taking your life。
and living it any way you want,。
that's taking what does not belong to you to God,。
from God, who says, you are mine.。
You're on borrowed time.。
Taking what doesn't belong to you,。
turning his back on his master.。
That's what Onesimus did.。
The story of us all is turning our back.。
This is the story of the Bible.。
Ever since the beginning, man has been turning his back。
on his master or on God, saying, I'm gonna live。
whatever I wanna do, do it my way.。
From the very beginning, the Garden of Eden。
is the story of man and woman saying,。
God, I can do it my own way.。
I know what I'm gonna do.。
I know better than you do.。
And turning their back on God, running from God,。
running from him.。
And yet the story inside of the Bible tells us。
that what does God do?。
God looks down at humanity who is running away from him.。
God looks down at you and me who are running away from him.。
And does he get angry?。
Does he say, I'm just gonna destroy you?。
I'm God.。
You think you know better?。
And what does he do?。
What does the heart of God move him to do?。
He becomes a man, takes on the form of man,。
says, I will die for these people.。
I will die for the runaway so that the runaway goes free.。
Like Paul said, I'll pay for it.。
Jesus said, I will pay for it.。
How amazing is this God?。
That when he looks at his enemies,。
those who have run from him, he says, I'll pay for it.。
The probably best verse that I know that displays this。
is Romans five, where it says this in verse six and eight.。
For while we were still weak, at the right time,。
Christ died for the ungodly.。
Verse eight, verse, God, but God demonstrates his love。
for us in this, in that while we were still sinners,。
Christ died for us.。
While we were running ungodly, unaware,。
enemies and thieves, Jesus stepped in and said,。
I will pay for it.。
And why did he do it?。
Love, love for you and for me.。
The idea of this God being a God who dies for his enemies,。
he dies for those who oppose him.。
This is who God is.。
He's a God of incredible love that moves them。
when the worst are at their worst.。
When they're running from God, he says, I'll die for them.。
What kind of God is this?。
You study other religions,。
you don't find a God represented like this.。
You see in Islam, hey, if anyone doesn't believe in Allah,。
kill them in the Quran.。
You see in other religious texts from other religions。
and other anxious Jewish writings outside the Bible,。
they speak of do not help your enemies.。
God's a God who says, I'll die for my enemies.。
What kind of love is that?。
I love Onesimus.。
I love you, David, I love you, Alex.。
This is the God who is there, a God who dies for the worst。
when they're at their worst,。
before they could do anything right,。
when they're still sinners.。
And if you're in the room and you struggle like I do。
to just believe that, yeah, I know God can love me。
and that's gonna get me in, but now I really,。
if I'm gonna make him love me,。
I need to try a little harder and have more quiet times.。
It's insane.。
That's insane thinking.。
God is a God who dies for his enemies,。
not just for fun, but because he loves them.。
What kind of God is this?。
It's the God who is there in the story of Onesimus。
throughout time has echoed the story。
of the God who loves the runaway.。
Jesus loves the runaway.。
And I'll step in and I'll take what they deserve.。
Crucify me, not them.。
All right, point three.。
Rough transition, okay.。
(audience applauding)。
All right, more bad transitions.。
Point three.。
The final point I just see in this amazing story。
is your past is often God's greatest platform。
for the ministry you're gonna have.。
The past that you right now have,。
the past that you, when you look back behind you have。
is your greatest platform for ministry.。
That's what God does.。
He takes the story, he takes what we intend for evil,。
and he turns it for our good.。
Onesimus comes back home,。
and we're told in church history。
that Philemon takes him and welcomes him in,。
forgives him, and restores him,。
which must have been so powerful to the Colossian church.。
Wait, Onesimus is back?。
Why is he back?。
Was he led back and changed?。
Did they arrest him and bring him back?。
No, he chose.。
He came.。
He wasn't forced.。
Well, why would he come?。
Because he'd been changed.。
He trusted in Christ.。
How much does that testify to the power of Christ。
inside of someone's life to change?。
And Onesimus comes back in, and he was a changed man.。
And not only that, gosh, I love this part of the story.。
It's so good.。
Hopefully it's somebody else but me.。
And not only that, here's what happens next.。
Onesimus goes back to the church.。
He's totally forgiven and accepted.。
And he's there inside a Colossae,。
and something happens about seven years later.。
And you could put that map back up there.。
At Colossae, we know in 67 AD,。
there was an earthquake that destroyed.。
So that was about 61 AD.。
67 years later, in 67 AD, an earthquake destroyed Colossae.。
It was totally destroyed.。
To this day, it hasn't been rebuilt.。
So everyone that lived there relocated to different cities.。
Many of them went to Ephesus.。
Among them was a man named Onesimus.。
Onesimus relocates to Ephesus,。
and he's trying to live out this new life。
and get used to the new port city of Ephesus,。
which is pretty cool, it's on the coast.。
And he's living there, and he joins the church that's there.。
And here's what's so cool about the church in Ephesus.。
Scholars, if you study or like to study this stuff,。
across the board will say Ephesus, around this time,。
and especially at the end of the first century,。
was the most important church in the ancient world.。
When Rome came in and took Jerusalem down,。
and they basically destroyed Jerusalem,。
the church there spread out,。
and Ephesus became a hub of influence。
and the most important church in the ancient world.。
So Onesimus is part of a really cool church.。
He's joining it.。
It was the largest church in the thousands.。
And he joins us, and he's a part of this group。
who's led by the apostle John.。
Remember John, who was close to Jesus?。
He watched Mary, Jesus' mom.。
So John's in Ephesus.。
He's leading the church.。
Mary's there with him.。
And we're told a lot of this is coming。
from the church father's writings,。
which is around this time.。
And so they're leading the church,。
and Onesimus is there, and then John dies.。
And they look around and they go,。
who should we replace John with?。
How do you go after that?。
And they decide Timothy.。
Oh, of course it's gotta be Timothy.。
I mean, Timothy is like, he's the protege of Paul.。
Of course, he's Batman and Robin.。
We got Robin.。
This is awesome.。
And so Timothy becomes the head pastor。
of the most influential church in the ancient world.。
And then in around 110 AD,。
Timothy is killed by a mob in the streets of Ephesus.。
And in deciding who should we replace Timothy with,。
God moves the hearts of whoever made the decision。
or whoever was there.。
And he was replaced by a man named Onesimus.。
This convicted criminal runaway slave,。
a rebel who turned his back,。
who turned his back on those who had cared for him,。
is now running the largest church in the world.。
He becomes the lead pastor.。
I mean, how insane is that?。
God takes this mess of a life,。
and he makes a missionary out of him.。
Who's gonna lead the biggest,。
most important church in the world, God?。
Onesimus.。
A man with a past.。
But a man who's been changed.。
God takes mess and makes it a missionary.。
It's amazing.。
But it's really nothing different。
than what God's been doing all along,。
and God continues to do,。
and is doing today all over our ministry.。
Honestly, that's what we see God doing in spite of us,。
is he takes messes and he makes them into missionaries.。
That's what God does.。
And if you're in the room and you're going,。
man, I am a mess.。
Okay, none of this is really applicable to me.。
Onesimus, who's that?。
If you're in the room going,。
you don't know what I've done,。
here's what I do know.。
You'll probably be the best missionary we have。
out of this entire group.。
That's what God does.。
He takes messes and makes them missionaries.。
Here, we could go for a while here,。
depending on how much time we have.。
Ali Wall.。
Ali is a girl who directs and leads the women at the porch.。
Ali's one of the most trusted people we have。
inside of our ministry.。
Ali was a girl who, when she came here,。
she had run from a past.。
She was numbing her pain through partying.。
She was a divorcee with an abortion。
who wouldn't wanna ever talk to anybody about it,。
who was running and hiding.。
And then she had countered the love of the same God。
that changed Onesimus and it changed Ali.。
Lance Throku, who did announcements in Dallas, Fort Worth.。
And Lance was up here a few minutes ago doing announcements.。
Lance was the guy who threw the party。
for the who's who in Dallas.。
Lance was the guy that if you didn't know Lance,。
you probably weren't in the who's who.。
He was the guy that threw the party。
for everyone on the scene.。
That's literally what he did for a living.。
I don't mean like, yeah, we're doing a barbecue at my house.。
He threw parties in clubs for people for a living.。
Now Lance is one of the most influential volunteers。
we have who throws the parties here for the porch.。
He takes prodigal sons and he throws parties for prodigals。
to come home to their father who loves them all the time.。
That's what God does.。
He takes messes and he makes missionaries out of them.。
JP, you can clap, but JP, look at JP.。
I mean, 10 years ago, you look at JP's story,。
a porn addict who's a manipulator,。
who now runs the largest young adult ministry in the world.。
Man, how amazing is this God?。
That's just what he does.。
He takes messes and he makes missionaries out of them.。
JP's one of the godliest men I know,。
and he tells this story, and I'm like,。
really, really, you did that?。
I can never imagine you.。
Bottle service, what is bottle service?。
Church kid, hashtag, okay.。
That's just what God does.。
And he takes church kids who are prideful,。
arrogant, stuck up men, and he continues。
to soften their heart and make them a little less prideful.。
He takes messes and he makes missionaries,。
and that's what he wants to do in your life.。
That's what he's always been about,。
and that's the story of Onesimus.。
And I'll just close with this, 'cause,。
in fact, let me read the last thing。
about Onesimus' change.。
This is from Ignatius, who writes about Onesimus,。
and he writes about this pastor。
who's been placed to lead the biggest church.。
Here's what he says.。
"I received," this is Ignatius in 111 AD.。
He was a church leader, and he wrote a letter。
to the church in Ephesus, and here's what he said.。
This is in the Bible.。
You can Google it later, Ignatius to the Ephesians.。
"In God's name, therefore, I received your large congregation。
"and the person of Onesimus, your bishop in this world."。
Here's how he describes this criminal, hardened slave。
years later as an old man,。
"a man whose love is beyond words.。
"My prayer is that you should love him。
"in the spirit of Jesus Christ。
"and all be like him, Onesimus."。
Ephesian church, biggest church in the world.。
I want you to be like your pastor.。
That's what God does.。
Shortly after that, he's martyred for his faith.。
This mess of God made a pastor。
of the biggest church in the world.。
And I think what,。
I'll read the final verses of the letter。
as we wrap up Colossians.。
This is verse 16.。
"After this letter," Colossians, "is read to you,。
"see that it is also read in the church of the Laodiceans."。
So after you read this letter, the Colossian letter,。
I want you to take it to the church in Laodicea,。
which is just a small drive away,。
or a small camel ride away,。
and I want you to have them read it while they're there.。
"And see in turn that you read the letter。
"to the Laodiceans."。
Wait, there's another letter, Paul?。
There's another letter, but we don't have it.。
It wasn't preserved yet.。
There's New Testament writings that we don't have,。
or they're not a part of the New Testament.。
They were letters written by apostles,。
and God chose in his sovereignty.。
I'm not gonna have you preserve them.。
Verse 17, "Tell Archippus,。
"'See to it that you complete the ministry。
"'you've received from the Lord.。
"'I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand.。
"'Remember my chains.。
"'Grace be with you.'"。
I think what stands out to me, and it's so powerful,。
is I was thinking this week,。
like, why do we not have that letter?。
That's weird.。
Why, God, would you not want us?。
Maybe it was something in there that was said,。
but that led me to this thought.。
Why do we have the letter of Philemon?。
Why, Colossians, what made you choose those?。
Why would you choose Philemon,。
which is sent together with Colossians?。
Why would you choose that one?。
It's written about a slave and a master.。
That's gonna be really irrelevant to us。
for hundreds of centuries,。
who in the West don't have slavery,。
so it won't be really universally applicable.。
Why would you save this slave letter, Paul, or God?。
And then it hit me.。
If we didn't have that letter,。
we wouldn't know the story of Onesimus.。
We would not know the story of the man。
who pastored the largest church in the world.。
We would not know the story of the runaway slave criminal。
who had turned his back on God,。
who had turned his back on his master,。
and who God stepped in and said,。
"I love you, I've died for you, and I'll change you."。
And that's exactly what happened.。
We wouldn't have the story, we wouldn't know.。
And it's though what God said,。
I want you to know that I'm a God who loves the runaway.。
I'm a God who wants you to know that I take messes。
and I turn 'em into missionaries.。
I don't know of another story outside of Paul.。
That's as powerful and compelling,。
and arguably, this one's even more.。
A slave criminal becomes the head pastor。
of the largest church in the world.。
That's how our God works.。
That's just what God does.。
The God who dies for his enemies,。
who goes after the runaway,。
and he'll never stop running after you.。
And the moment you turn,。
which is exactly what Onesimus did,。
you're not met with anger and condemnation,。
you're met with the love of the God。
whose hands tell the story of his love for you, Scars.。
The moment that you turn,。
that's all repenting is, is it's turning.。
As far as Onesimus ran, he did not run from God,。
and the moment he turned, he was there.。
Some of you in the room are running, and you know you are.。
And what I want you to know more than anything。
is that God has not given up on you.。
And the moment you turn from that relationship,。
addiction, the moment, and by turn,。
I don't even mean stop it, that's not what I'm saying.。
I'm saying you go, God, help me, I can't stop.。
I need you, I'm not gonna make it on my own, I need you.。
In that moment, that's what repentance is.。
If it's just based on you, there's no hope,。
there's no change.。
We don't gather here to worship and sing,。
and then we stopped.。
Worship the only one who can help, the only one who saves,。
the God who dies for his enemies,。
the God who brings change to those who will trust。
and just accept and turn to him and his love.。
I'm gonna pray that we do that tonight.。
Father, we love you, and we thank you.。
I thank you just for the story of Onesimus,。
the story that you preserved.。
I thank you that you're the God who chases。
after runaways like me, chases after my heart that runs,。
that thinks I should turn my back on you,。
and you step in and you change everything.。
Thank you that in your wisdom and your love,。
you preserve this incredible story for us。
in the book of Colossians.。
I pray for anyone in this room right now who's just running.。
God, would you make 'em tired?。
And would they come to you and find hope and love。
and no condemnation?。
Thank you for Jesus who bled so we didn't have to。
and don't have to.。
Thank you that you're a God who dies for your enemies,。
who loves the worst when they're at their worst.。
