(soft music)。
- Thank you very much for Dr. Wright's illuminating lecture.。
It rightly reminds us that Christian ethics。
is more than a set of do's and don'ts.。
It is indivisible from our identity and our purpose.。
Now it's time for respondents.。
Dr. Edwin Moon, lecturer in Old Testament。
from Chinese Mission Seminary,。
will be the first respondent.。
After that, Dr. Chun-Lun Wu,。
assistant professor in Biblical Studies from CJSC,。
will carry the conversation on.。
So Dr. Moon, please.。
(audience applauding)。
- Thank you, Dr. Wright,。
for coming over to Hong Kong to present us.。
With a series of stimulating and insightful lectures.。
And thank you, President Wong and CJST。
for inviting me to respond。
to Dr. Wright's lecture this afternoon.。
Dr. Wright is one of the pioneers on Christian ethics。
and a prolific writer on this subject matter,。
especially in the field of the Old Testament.。
Many of us are familiar with。
Dr. Wright's paradigmatic approach。
that links God, humanity, and the earth in a triangle。
and integrates Israel in the Old Testament。
and the church in the New Testament in a subtriangle,。
both typologically and eschatologically.。
I would like to acknowledge Dr. Wright's lecture。
in the following three aspects.。
First of all, I appreciate Dr. Wright's holistic。
and eschatological approach in cultivating the topic,。
the Old Testament and Christian ethics.。
How should we live?。
Dr. Wright clearly demonstrates the Pentateuch。
as a paradigm and the revelation of God。
for Christian ethics.。
Dr. Wright thoughtfully selects four representative passages。
from each book of the Pentateuch, except numbers.。
I wholly agree with Dr. Wright's missional。
and ethical hermeneutics of the election of Abraham。
in Genesis chapter 18, verse 18 and 19.。
The incision of the two purple crosses。
for the purpose that is judicious and makes God's purpose。
of the election crystal clear.。
This missional election corresponds and further elaborates。
the Abrahamic covenant in Genesis chapter 12, verse 1 to 3.。
Abraham and his descendants are chosen。
for the ethical mission to walk in the way of the Lord。
and to do justice and righteousness.。
Indeed, that is God's mission of blessing all nations。
through the chosen family of Abraham.。
Dr. Wright tactfully connects the identity of Israel。
as the descendants of Abraham with the missional redemption。
of the nation of Israel in Exodus.。
The arguments for the missional ethics。
and the covenantal community of Israel。
in the programmatic text of Exodus chapter 19,。
verse 4 through 6, Leviticus 19 and Deuteronomy chapter 4,。
6 to 8 are convincingly knitted together。
and evidently presented.。
Secondly, Dr. Wright introduced a concrete example。
of an unethical corrupted city of Sodom。
that depicts the fallenness of our world today.。
It urges Christians to reflect on the reality。
of judgment and salvation。
in the light of our missional ethical calling。
to walk in the way of the Lord。
and do justice and righteousness.。
Dr. Wright translates the abstract ethical principle。
of Leviticus 19 into down-to-earth pragmatic advice.。
These ethical codes of living in Leviticus 19。
are both relevant and practical。
for the Christian community today.。
They reflect the holiness of God,。
and we as Christians are called to separate from this world。
and walk in the way of the Lord。
to do righteousness and justice.。
The list is a microcosm of ethical living。
that incorporates in all capacity of living,。
namely social, economic, legal,。
political, and religious dimensions of our society.。
We are being challenged to transform。
these holiness living codes into practice。
in our existing social institutions and structures.。
We are reminded to be a community of faith。
to fulfill God's mission to bless all nations.。
Last but not least, Dr. Wright beautifully conclude。
his presentation with Paul and Peter's teachings,。
which are written in the Old Testament.。
It demonstrates that there's continuity。
between the Old Testament and the New Testament.。
Dr. Wright further quotes the Cape Town Commitment。
of the Lausanne Movement to summarize his conclusion。
that we share the same missional identity。
and missional purpose to live out the missional ethics。
of Abraham and the people of Israel.。
We are God's chosen people.。
Through the redemption and resurrection of Jesus Christ,。
we all partake in God's mission。
to bless all nations through evangelism.。
As a teacher of the Old Testament,。
I share Dr. Wright's concern of the lack of understanding。
of the Old Testament in the Christian community.。
I agree with Dr. Wright that if we do not know。
the drama of the scripture, both the Old and New Testaments,。
we may lose our grip on our identity,。
our purpose of existence, and fail to live。
according to God's attributes and mission.。
In closing, I would like to respond to Dr. Wright's。
final paragraph on obeying God's laws.。
Sometimes, even though we are familiar with the plots。
and the story of the scripture, remember commandments,。
and know God's attributes and mission,。
we may still have difficulties.。
We can struggle to figure out how should we live ethically,。
according to the scripture, in a sophisticated,。
post-modern commercial world that is dominated。
by materialism, consumerism, relativism, and self-centeredness.。
How do we obey God's law in such controversial gray areas,。
especially in the arena of social justice,。
under the rule of atheist governments。
or anti-Christianity authorities,。
when everyone is doing what is just in his or her own eyes?。
What is our stance?。
The programmatic texts in Deuteronomy chapter four,。
verse six through eight, also Deuteronomy chapter 10,。
verse 12 through 19,。
both shed light in response to the questions about.。
It says, "For observing the law will show wisdom。
"and understanding to the nation.。
"Surely, this great nation is wise and understanding people.。
"Wisdom and understanding will equip us。
"to obey God's law。
"and live out our missional and ethical calling."。
The wisdom literature in the Old Testament,。
namely the book of Proverbs, the book of Job,。
and the book of Ecclesiastes,。
summarize wisdom in one phrase, fear of the Lord.。
If we fear the Lord, we'll keep his commandments。
as concluded in Ecclesiastes chapter 12, verse 13,。
and we'll turn away from evil,。
as stated in Job chapter one, verse one and eight,。
chapter two, verse three,。
and chapter 28, verse 28.。
It will lead us to walk with the Lord。
and follow his instructions.。
The fear of the Lord is concerned。
with the knowledge of the Lord。
in Proverbs chapter nine, verse 10.。
The knowledge of the Lord is not only limited。
to head knowledge.。
Memorizing the golden verses of the scripture。
in Chinese Christian traditions,。
but also on focusing on our relationship with the Lord.。
As the psalmist echoes Moses' teaching。
in Deuteronomy chapter four, verse seven,。
the Lord is dear to all who call on him.。
Psalm 145, 18a.。
A close relationship with God and calling on him。
when we are lost will help us to discern God's will。
and guide us to make wise decision。
to live out our missional witness.。
And I found out that Dr. Wright mentioned。
about Isaiah chapter 58.。
And I think that's not in the script.。
And then it triggered me to think about this chapter,。
because I remember there's a very。
interesting proclaimed by the Lord.。
We are family with Isaiah chapter six,。
when God asked, "Who can I send?"。
Then Isaiah responds, "Here I am."。
But in Isaiah chapter 58,。
when we refrain from oppression,。
when we are practicing justice,。
then God will answer, "Here I am."。
I think it's in chapter 58, verse nine,。
or something like that.。
Okay, the Chinese translation of the title。
of today's lecture is quite interesting。
and thought-provoking.。
Instead of a literal translation of the question,。
"How should we live?"。
It is translated as a statement in English,。
"Obey and follow this," or "Obey and do this."。
In Chinese, the title is "Zhen Qi Yi Hao."。
It connotes a sense of doing rather than being or relating.。
Indeed, living our missional ethical living。
is a matter of doing.。
The underlying force of doing this or that,。
in addition to the understanding of our identity and mission,。
is to trust and obey.。
The Book of Numbers reveals stories。
of the Israelites' failure to trust and obey。
during their wandering in the wilderness.。
God pronounced that Israel has tested。
and disobeyed him 10 times in Numbers chapter 14, verse 22.。
The renowned story of Joshua and Caleb,。
two trustful and obedient spies,。
were being accused by 10 doubtful, fearful,。
and disobedient spies.。
The latter's fear and doubt influenced the Israelites.。
Fear and doubt are stumbling blocks。
in our way to obey the Lord。
and carrying out our ethical mission.。
Due to distrust, Moses lost his destiny。
of leading Israel to the Promised Land,。
as found in Numbers chapter 20, verse 12.。
I think love God is the root of obeying his law.。
Jesus mentioned three times about loving him。
and obeying his commandments.。
In John chapter 14, verse 15, 21, 23.。
Love and obey go hand in hand.。
Love drives away fear and doubt,。
the stumbling blocks of trusting and obeying God's law.。
Our Lord Jesus Christ is an excellent example。
of obeying our Heavenly Father.。
In his prayer in Gethsemane,。
he seeks God's will over his own will.。
May we be found faithful and loving。
in carrying out our missional ethics。
and love God with all our heart and with all our soul。
and with all our strength and with all our mind。
and love our neighbor as ourselves.。
For love is the fulfillment of the law.。
May we adhere to obey God's missional ethics,。
despite how great the causes are.。
Once again, I would like to extend my sincere gratitude。
to Dr. Wright for your marvelous and inspiring lecture.。
Thank you.。
(audience applauding)。
- It is indeed my great privilege to have the opportunity。
to respond to one of the lectures.。
Delivered by Dr. Wright。
in the Josephine Soh Lecture Week this year.。
As suggested by the title written for us,。
"The Old Testament as Christian Scripture."。
The base of 10 of the lecture series。
is the relevancy of the Old Testament for us,。
a community of faith today as scripture.。
Building upon his first lecture。
on the Old Testament and Christian identity。
and second lecture。
on the Old Testament and Christian mission,。
Dr. Wright brought our thoughts and focus this afternoon。
to the subject of the Old Testament and Christian ethics,。
which addresses the question。
of how we should live as Christians。
in our contemporary society.。
The lectures indeed come in a natural sequence。
as regards the relevancy of the Old Testament。
in terms of implications for Christian life.。
While Christian identity is concerned about who we are,。
as defined in the beginning,。
and Christian mission looks to what we ultimately aim for。
in the end,。
Christian ethics comes to address the in-between process。
and, if you frame it theologically,。
the already but not yet reality that we are facing today.。
Simply put, Christian ethics is about。
how we ought to live our present life。
in accordance with our rooted identity。
and our mission that we are anticipating to fulfill.。
The way the Christian community is expected to live。
in the world has undoubtedly been a significant。
and indeed indispensable issue。
to be addressed in Christian scholarship.。
This has become even more so in the post-modern age,。
in which systems of moral values and ethics。
are being relativized,。
despite a growing interest in ethics in secular scholarship.。
Over the past few decades,。
there have not been many Christian scholars。
who are committed to investigating the biblical material。
as regards Christian ethics.。
The situation is shown to be more evident。
with the subject of Old Testament ethics,。
which finds an echo in the comment of Ronald Clemens.。
The subject of Old Testament ethics。
proved to be a most difficult one to deal with.。
The literature devoted to it has been surprisingly sparse.。
Dr. Wright is among a few who has actively been addressing。
the ethical import of the Old Testament.。
With the publication of his Old Testament ethics。
for the people of God in 2004,。
Dr. Wright has also been continuing to engage in the subject。
as a biblical scholar and mythologist.。
The difficulties for scholars who write。
on the ethics of the Old Testament are manifold.。
Three dynamics are worth mentioning.。
The first is the challenge to relay the interrelated field。
of study of law and ethics in the Old Testament.。
Given that ethics is concerned about how people。
should live with one another in a society,。
it can hardly be denied that Old Testament ethics。
is prominently fissure with collection of law,。
which prescribe how people should act。
with respect to others in certain circumstances.。
In terms of social function,。
Old Testament law appears to be tangible manifestation。
of ethical principles that would engender。
right interpersonal relationships in a social group.。
But can Old Testament law as a whole simply be understood。
to represent Old Testament ethics?。
Apparently not.。
While law prescribes for the most part external behavior,。
ethics is commonly understood to be a moral vision。
with more fundamental values。
that regulate the lives of individuals as human beings.。
Still, it is sometimes not as straightforward。
when it comes to drawing ethical principles。
from individual legal statements。
or even legal terminology in the Old Testament.。
One example is the Hebrew word mishpat,。
which commonly translated as justice or judgment。
in a legal sense,。
might carry different ethical implications。
that can only be assessed in particular context.。
Even Dr. Wright defines mishpat in its broader sense。
as a qualitative set of actions.。
New answers in terms of ethical implications。
might exist across its various usages。
in the biblical tradition.。
Despite the inherent challenge of relating law。
and ethics in the Old Testament,。
Dr. Wright's approach brings awareness。
to the importance of envisioning。
the relationship of law and ethics。
in light of the narrative framework of the Old Testament.。
In articulating Old Testament ethics,。
Dr. Wright never looks at the laws。
as revealed in the Torah per se,。
but intends to understand them。
against the backdrop of Israel's origin。
and her relationship with Yahweh.。
Dr. Wright reminds us that。
the ethical implication of Old Testament law。
can only be fully grasped。
in the context of Israel's narrative.。
Set within the context of Israel's story with Yahweh,。
Old Testament law is much more than a set of conduct。
or rules demanded to humanity by God,。
but it is revelatory of the defined purpose。
in shaping the life of the community of God's people.。
Dr. Wright's emphasis on the narrative nature。
of the Old Testament。
not only bridges biblical law and ethics,。
but also constitutes a basis。
upon which law and ethics can be biblically related.。
The second challenge for scholars concerns the tensions。
between the so-called diachronic historical approach。
and the synchronic literary approach。
in articulating a discourse on Old Testament ethics.。
For historical critical scholars,。
the ethical import of the Bible。
lies in the real historical world behind the biblical text.。
Locating ethical truths in history,。
they tend to look for real ethical values。
that might have been held by ancient Israelites。
in the biblical period.。
Despite its contribution。
in uncovering the historical reality of the Bible,。
the historical critical approach has its own limitations.。
Not only does historical reconstruction。
remain in a large part a tentative project,。
but excessive preoccupation with historical vicissitudes。
would risk fragmentizing the biblical canon。
rather than viewing it as a unified corpus。
in terms of ethical insights.。
John Barton, a known Old Testament scholar,。
even advises against an Old Testament ethic at all,。
as he sees no unity of ethical motives。
across the various parts of the biblical tradition.。
While historical critics attempt。
to find ethical truths in history,。
scholars who appreciate the Bible as literature。
are inclined to adopt the synchronic literary approach。
in extracting biblical ethics.。
For literary critics, it is story rather than history.。
That should be the focus of investigation.。
In other words, ethical principles。
are found not in the world behind the biblical text,。
but are embedded in the world within the text.。
Notwithstanding its appreciation of biblical accounts。
as aesthetically crafted and ethically laden constructs,。
the literary critical strategy。
does not necessarily presuppose。
a comprehensive Old Testament ethics。
that undergirds all biblical texts.。
Some literary critics rightly point us to the fact。
that there is a diverse material。
in terms of ethical teachings。
across the various biblical genres.。
Yet, some might go too far in claiming。
that the diversity is so great。
that we can only formulate Old Testament ethics。
according to a collection of books,。
such as the Pentateuch, Historical Narratives,。
Wisdom Literature, or Prophets.。
So some might name it as Ethics in the Pentateuch,。
Ethics in the Wisdom Literature,。
Ethics in the Prophets, and so forth.。
While it might serve as a reminder for us。
to incorporate a whole span of biblical books。
in doing Old Testament ethics,。
especially the lecture today。
seems to be focused on the Pentateuch,。
the literary critical strategy。
might also risk disuniting biblical ethics。
if no underpinning ethical tell-all is presumed.。
In the face of this methodological dynama,。
doctorized theological reading of the Old Testament。
constitutes not only a possibility, but also a necessity.。
For a comprehensive biblical ethics.。
Indeed, the crucial issue concerning the dynama。
lies not so much in the adopted reading strategy,。
but in the very fact that the theological nature。
of the Old Testament has not been prioritized.。
Read in a Christian canonical perspective,。
aspects of ethics in the Old Testament。
is fundamentally theological.。
As Dr. Wright asserts in his Old Testament Ethics,。
ethical issues are at every point related to God,。
to his character, his will, his actions, and his purpose.。
Old Testament ethics is grounded ultimately。
in the person of Yahweh, God of Israel,。
who is also revealed as God of all creation and humanity.。
Reflecting his quintessential character of justice,。
righteousness, truth, and compassion,。
Yahweh's moral demands and ethical expectations。
are not only upon Israel,。
but are also upon his people of all ages.。
Within a theological covenantal framework。
as prioritized by Dr. Wright,。
Old Testament ethics is principally theocentric,。
which renders it canonical and comprehensive,。
thereby saving it from being disunited,。
as is sometimes the case in critical scholarship.。
The third and last challenge I would like。
to highlight today is, echoing with the lecture title。
written for us, how we should apply。
Old Testament ethics in our age,。
and how far we can make it relevant。
for the contemporary world.。
In fact, a dynama concerning the applicability。
of Old Testament ethics has long been noted.。
As Earl Davies succinctly points out,。
on the one hand, many of the laws and customs of Bible。
no longer seem relevant。
to contemporary communities of faith.。
On the other hand, many problems which do arise。
in the complex technological world which we inhabit。
are such that the Bible offers no exact guidance。
or direction by which they can be resolved.。
Thus, the dilemma of relevancy is too edged.。
For those who start with the historical ethics。
of the Old Testament would inevitably be confronted。
with the historical cultural gap。
between antiquity and our modern world.。
While the challenge for the historical approach is evident,。
any attempt that begins with modern ethical issues。
is no easy way either.。
In fact, a variety of ethics in a contemporary society,。
for example, bioethics, medical ethics, political ethics,。
social ethics, economic ethics, legal ethics,。
family ethics, and so on,。
adds to the complexity of modern ethics。
and has the difficulties in applying biblical ethics。
in our age. Notwithstanding the real and practical challenges,。
we should not be deterred from seeking to relate。
the Old Testament ethics to our contemporary life.。
If we, as a community of faith,。
are to believe what Dr. Wright envisions,。
Israel is God's paradigm。
of what a nation ought ideally to be,。
and was therefore chosen to disclose God's wider purposes。
to the rest of humanity,。
we are indeed sharing the same mission with Israel。
in propagating the ethical way of life。
God demands of the whole humanity,。
his very people on earth.。
The relevance of Old Testament ethics,。
therefore, finds its anchor in the conviction。
that it is paradigmatic for all people。
across times and contexts.。
With this belief held, the aforementioned dilemmas。
might not necessarily dispirit us.。
Rather, they come to remind us to be in a spirit of humility。
as we seek to relate biblical ethical insights in our world.。
Perhaps the theme of this lecture series written for us。
means to speak to a humble heart and open ears。
as we are eager to live out the scripture.。
Lastly, I invite all of you to join me。
in thanking Dr. Wright for his most insightful。
and highly stimulating lecture.。
Thank you very much, Dr. Wright. Thank you.。
(audience applauding)。
