(soft piano music)。
- Good evening, ladies and gentlemen,。
fellow sisters and brothers in Christ.。
Welcome back to the fourth and final lecture。
of this year's Josephine So Culture and Ethics lectures.。
In this session, our distinguished speaker,。
Reverend Dr. Christopher Wright,。
Langham's Global Ambassador and Ministry Director,。
will continue to speak to us。
on the relevance of the Old Testament to our Christian faith.。
In the previous three lectures,。
he finally elucidated for us how the Old Testament。
may bear on our understanding of our Christian identity,。
missions, and ethics.。
Tonight, he'll stretch our horizon a bit forward。
and cast a look into the future.。
Tonight's topic is the Old Testament and Christian hope,。
where will it all end?。
Over the dinner, I confessed to Dr. Wright。
that the Chinese translation are written by me.。
So all the distortions and mistakes were on me.。
Accompanying our speaker on stage tonight。
is our Emeritus President, Dr. Stephen Lee.。
Dr. Lee shares the same enthusiasm as our speaker。
in helping Christians to reckon the Old Testament。
as an indismissible part of their faith.。
Some 20-odd years ago,。
I listened to one of his talks on the cassette tape.。
Do you know cassette tapes ever existed on this earth?。
No, okay.。
And the title of his talk is。
A Bible with Only the Upper but No Ground Floor.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
In which he explained that our Christian faith。
is grounded in both the Old and the New Testament.。
As for tonight, Drs. Wright and Dr. Lee。
will have a dialogue on this interesting topic,。
Old Testament and Christian hope.。
Dr. Wright will give his first lecture,。
will give the lecture first, a 25-minute speech,。
followed by Dr. Lee's response of about the same length.。
Then, they'll further exchange their views。
for another half an hour,。
and then the discussion will be open to the floor.。
So for the time being, you may ask our ushers。
for a piece of paper or a piece of note。
to write down your questions or thoughts.。
And without further ado, let's welcome Dr. Wright.。
(audience applauding)。
- Thank you so much, Simon, Dr. Chung, and welcome again.。
And if you have been with me all through these four,。
well done.。
It's kind of a marathon for all of us,。
but it's good to see you again.。
Let me just get to my right page on the notes.。
There we are.。
So yes, our title this time is Where Will It All End?。
We've seen, haven't we, in these previous three lectures。
how the Old Testament shapes the identity。
and the mission and the ethic of God's people.。
Those of us who are in Christ, as Paul says in Galatians,。
are in Abraham.。
We are part of that people, believing Jews and Gentiles,。
and we are shaped together by the scriptures as a whole,。
the scriptures of our Lord Jesus Christ, of course,。
what we now call the Old Testament.。
So the Old Testament then, topped by the New,。
tells us who we are, why we are here,。
and how we are to live.。
That's what we've been thinking about。
over the three lectures.。
But what's the point?。
Where is it all going to end?。
Where does this story go?。
All human religions and philosophies and ideologies。
express some elements of narrative or story。
to explain how things are。
and how they got to be the way they are。
and how we could make them better if we want to.。
And the Bible, as a canonical whole,。
the whole scripture that we have,。
is also, in that sense, a narrative,。
indeed, a metanarrative.。
It tells the big story that runs from creation,。
right through to new creation, from Genesis to Revelation.。
But it's not just a story.。
It claims to be the story,。
the true story of the whole universe.。
Now, in other places and in some of my books,。
I've tried to pick up an idea that I first got from,。
well, originally from Tom Wright。
and then from Michael Goheen and Craig Bartholomew,。
who talk about the Bible as rather like a great drama,。
that is, a great cosmic play that has taken several acts.。
You know how dramas have different acts,。
in which God is the author and, of course,。
the chief character,。
but there's a cast of thousands as well.。
And one way in which I've tried to portray this。
is in a kind of diagram,。
which I've put into one of my other books。
called "The Great Story and the Great Commission,"。
which is published by Baker,。
like this, with sort of symbols。
that express the different acts of the Bible.。
So here it is as a drama in seven acts.。
I'll try to go through this fairly quickly,。
watching my time,。
'cause I'm very aware that there are two of us this evening.。
Act one of the Bible story, of course, is the creation.。
In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth,。
and I've put this as a triangle because there is God.。
He created the earth and he put human beings in it.。
Act one, all a good start.。
But then, of course, we know that everything went wrong。
because we chose to rebel against our creator,。
to distrust his goodness, to disobey his instructions.。
And so that symbol expresses the sense of rebellion.。
Act two of the story is where all the problems begin.。
And then act three is basically。
the rest of the Old Testament.。
It's a very long act and there's an awful lot in it.。
And it's not just a story, of course.。
It's full of other things like poetry。
and Psalms and wisdom and everything else.。
But the arrow pointing forward has this sense of movement,。
that it is going somewhere,。
because it's based on God's promise,。
the promise that he made to Abraham,。
that he would be a nation and through him,。
the nations would be blessed,。
as we've been thinking repeatedly。
through these last couple of days.。
Act three, therefore, is a story。
which ultimately leads up to act four,。
which, of course, is the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ,。
when the God of Israel keeps his promise,。
enters into human history as a human being,。
the word becomes flesh, and then lives and teaches,。
dies the atoning death on the cross,。
and rises again and returns to his father.。
So that cross symbol at the center。
is not just the crucifixion,。
but is intended to represent。
everything we have in the Gospels,。
from the conception by the Holy Spirit。
through to the ascension of the Lord Jesus Christ.。
But the Bible doesn't end there, does it?。
Of course not.。
It moves on through the book of Acts。
into the outpouring of God's spirit on his people,。
sending the people of God out in mission。
to the ends of the earth.。
We live within that era of mission,。
begun in the New Testament and continuing to this day,。
which leads to the last two great acts of the story.。
I put a tick here for the final judgment,。
might seem a wrong symbol,。
but in a sense, that is when God puts everything right.。
It's when God deals with evil,。
so evil will not have the last word, thank God.。
The judgment is actually good news in Paul's thinking,。
because it is when God rectifies。
all that went wrong in the story.。
And that then leads to the new creation,。
the new heavens and the new earth。
that we read about there in Revelation 21 and 22,。
but of course actually promised in the book of Isaiah.。
Now, that's simply trying to portray。
the whole Bible story on the back of an envelope,。
in a sense, which is where I first saw it done,。
actually with a friend of mine in the US。
with some other slightly different symbols,。
but the same idea.。
I've even done this on the back of a napkin。
in a restaurant sitting beside somebody。
and say, "What do you think the whole Bible is?"。
Well, just draw it like this,。
and here's the whole story of the Bible in one piece.。
And this helps us to see, of course,。
that we now, we are somewhere in Act 5.。
That is to say, we are in between。
the resurrection of Christ and the return of Christ.。
We are in the Bible.。
Did you know you're in the Bible?。
We are, we are actually participating in this drama.。
We are part of the story.。
This is the story we are in.。
And of course, this Act 5 is not the end.。
We know that ultimately,。
this story is leading to a glorious future,。
which gives us hope.。
That's why I use the word hope in the title of the lecture.。
Now, hope, of course,。
is one of those massive New Testament words.。
In fact, the apostle Paul puts it。
in his favorite three, doesn't he?。
"Now abide faith, hope, and love."。
But Christian hope is not just optimism.。
It doesn't just mean, oh, we like to think。
that everything's going to get better and better.。
That's the myth of modernity,。
that somehow human progress, science, and wisdom。
will eventually create a better world.。
Well, Jesus told us that things may well get worse。
as they get better.。
In other words, the wheat of the kingdom of God。
and the weeds of the evil one work together。
all the way through history.。
So Christian hope is not optimism.。
Rather, it is the certainty, the biblical certainty,。
that the future of this planet,。
indeed the future of the universe, is in God's hands,。
and God's sovereign purpose will be accomplished。
in the reconciliation of his whole creation。
and the ingathering of people。
from every tribe and nation and language,。
and that that hope has indeed already been accomplished。
in anticipation through the cross。
and resurrection of Christ, as we shall see.。
Now, what I want us to see。
is that this sense of Christian hope。
didn't just sort of drop into the apostle Paul's mind。
from nowhere.。
It actually comes very deeply rooted in his scriptures,。
even before his conversion.。
In other words, Paul tells us, doesn't he,。
that he was a Hebrew-speaking Jew,。
that he was a Torah-observant Pharisee.。
Tells us that in Philippians.。
So he knew the scriptures.。
He probably knew masses of the Old Testament by heart.。
So therefore, he knew about the God of hope。
as he speaks in Romans 15.。
Indeed, I think if you had asked Saul of Tarsus,。
before his experience of the Damascus Road,。
what gave him hope for the future,。
he would have taken you to some of the texts。
that we're just going to look at in a moment,。
to multiple scriptures.。
He would have believed that the future。
would include God's restoration of Israel.。
That's what would happen.。
And then after the restoration of Israel。
would come the ingathering of the nations,。
and then ultimately would come a new heaven and a new earth,。
which he would have read about in Isaiah.。
And if you were to ask the same question to Saul of Tarsus。
after he had become the apostle Paul,。
after his experience on the Damascus Road,。
then he would have done the same,。
because he actually did.。
When he wants to talk about the hope that we have,。
he uses the Old Testament scriptures to do so.。
And that's why I wanted to use this text。
as a kind of control text here from Romans chapter 15,。
because hope figures again and again in it.。
Romans chapter 15, verse four, says this.。
He says, Paul says,。
that everything that was written in the past,。
and of course he means the scriptures。
of what we call the Old Testament,。
was written to teach us。
so that through the endurance taught in the scriptures。
and the encouragement they provide, we might have hope.。
Paul says, the whole Old Testament was to give us hope.。
Have you ever thought of that?。
The Old Testament gives you a lot of problems。
and a lot of classes and a lot of exams and everything else.。
But Paul says, the Old Testament is given to us。
to give us hope.。
And then immediately in the following verses,。
verses eight and nine,。
he summarizes what I just described as Acts 3, 4, and 5。
of the biblical narrative,。
because he says, I tell you, says Paul,。
that the Messiah Christ has become a servant of the Jews,。
that's the story of the gospels, isn't it,。
on behalf of God's truth,。
so that the promises made to the patriarchs。
might be confirmed, and moreover,。
that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy.。
So Paul says, Jesus came as the servant of the Lord,。
that's Act 4, the gospel story there, the cross narrative,。
as portrayed in Isaiah,。
but he had come in order to fulfill God's promises。
to the patriarchs, meaning, of course, Abraham,。
so that was Act 3 of the drama,。
and he says that was so that all nations,。
the Gentiles, would come to find their hope。
and their blessing and the glorifying God for his mercy,。
which was now happening in Act 5,。
because Paul was taking the gospel to the nations。
and seeing the responding to God's mercy.。
And then, in order to reinforce that climactic point,。
which is, let's remember that Romans 15。
is the climax of the whole letter.。
Paul didn't write a postcard to the Romans,。
which ended at Romans 8.。
He wrote a whole letter to the Romans,。
which comes right up to chapter 15 and 16.。
So let's hold it all together.。
He said that God's intention, his intention,。
from chapter one, was to bring about。
the obedience of faith among the nations,。
that's what the gospel is all about,。
and so Paul, when he gets to this point,。
that it's for the glory of God among the nations,。
throws in four Old Testament quotations。
immediately afterwards.。
I referred to this in an earlier lecture,。
from the Psalms, the Torah, and the prophets,。
all of which speak about the Gentiles,。
the nations, rejoicing along with Israel,。
because now, under the reign of the Messiah,。
King Jesus, Son of David,。
they have hope for the future of the world.。
Here's how Paul concludes that list.。
It's in, again, still in Romans, sorry,。
in Romans chapter 15.。
He says, "Therefore I will praise you among the Gentiles,。
"rejoice you Gentiles, praise the Lord you Gentiles.。
"The root of Jesse will arise,。
"and in him the Gentiles will hope."。
That's his climax.。
Hope for the world, hope for the nations,。
is the climax of the book of Romans,。
because Jesus of Nazareth has fulfilled。
the promises of the Old Testament scriptures,。
and the mercy and the glory of God。
is now going to the ends of the earth.。
That vision is now being fulfilled。
through Christ and his victory,。
and it's being extended to every sinner,。
and to all nations, and indeed to the whole of creation.。
So that was simply a kind of a glimpse at Romans 15.。
It's a significant passage.。
Please don't overlook it,。
because you can't get past Romans 9 to 11, or something.。
It's a very important way in which Paul。
draws his letter to a conclusion.。
So I want us to think of this hope, then,。
the God of hope, briefly, in three areas.。
As I said, hope for sinners, hope for the nations,。
and hope for creation.。
So first of all, then, hope for sinners。
takes us right back, of course,。
to the big problem that we have,。
which is in Genesis 3,。
which is because we chose in Adam and Eve。
to distrust and disobey God.。
The result was sin, evil, and death,。
and that penetrates to every dimension。
of the human personality.。
It's remarkable in that little story there。
in Genesis chapter 3, of how,。
when Eve is confronted by this temptation from the serpent,。
that the evil that is somehow there,。
and it's not explained where this has come from,。
or why it has happened,。
but it speaks into her spiritual relationship with God.。
Did God really say, "You don't want to believe him"?。
It penetrates her mind,。
because she now rationalizes the fruit of the tree.。
It's good, it's beautiful, it's good to eat,。
it makes you wise.。
And then also, it enters her physical body.。
She takes, she eats,。
and then it enters into her social relationship。
with her husband, because she gives it to him.。
He was with her, the text says.。
Please notice, you men, including myself.。
Adam was not somewhere else in the garden.。
He was with her while this was happening.。
So he was a witness to it.。
So sin enters into every dimension of the human person,。
and indeed to all of us, because as Paul would say,。
"All of us have sinned in Adam."。
And so that leads, of course, to the promise of God。
in Genesis 3, verse 15,。
sometimes called the first gospel, or the Protoevangelium,。
where God says, even in the context of that, the fall,。
God says to the serpent,。
that I will put enmity between you and the woman,。
and your offspring and hers.。
He, that is the seed of the woman, a human being,。
he will crush your head, the head of the serpent,。
and you will strike his heel.。
So there'll be warfare between the serpent。
and what the serpent represents,。
and the human race represented by the seed of Eve.。
But it will be a human being who ultimately。
will be the serpent crusher, as it were,。
and destroy that evil.。
Now, very quickly to say,。
the rest of the Old Testament shows。
not just the fact that we are all sinners,。
but that there is an awareness that God's forgiveness。
and mercy and grace is available to sinners.。
It's there in the Psalms at an individual level。
when the Psalmist celebrate the fact。
that when they confess their sin, God forgives it.。
Psalm 32, Psalm 51, Psalm 130, for example.。
"God, if you kept a record of sin, who could stand?。
"But with you there is forgiveness."。
Amazing words of personal, individual forgiveness.。
But how is that happening?。
Well, you look at Isaiah 53,。
and as we saw in an earlier lecture,。
the servant of the Lord, the climax of those songs。
is when he will bear the sins of many,。
and because he would bear their sins,。
they would then receive the righteousness of God。
or be right with God.。
That's in Isaiah 53, that he took up our pain,。
bore our suffering, crushed for our transgressions,。
and the punishment that brought us peace was on him,。
and by his wounds we are healed,。
which of course is picked up in the New Testament。
by Jesus and by Peter.。
But the passage that I wanted particularly to take us to。
is that one on the screen of Romans chapter five,。
where Paul explicitly makes the link。
between the sin that entered the world through Adam。
and the forgiveness that enters the world。
through the Lord Jesus Christ.。
Romans five, verse 12,。
"Therefore, just as sin entered the world through one man。
and death through sin, and in this way,。
death came to all people because all have sinned,"。
that's what comes into the world,。
then says Paul in verse, a little bit later in verse,。
have I got it, 19, he says,。
"Therefore, just as the disobedience of the one man,。
many were made sinners,。
so also through the obedience of the one man,"。
Jesus, of course, "the many will be made righteous."。
So that just as sin reigned in death,。
so also grace might reign through righteousness。
to bring eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.。
So that's the first point of the hope。
of the future of eternal life, which we have in Christ,。
is because we can have our sins forgiven.。
There is hope for sinners,。
and it's promised in the Old Testament。
and accomplished by Jesus.。
And for some people, that's it, that's the gospel,。
that's all they ever preach,。
which I think is true, but very short-sighted,。
because it's not all the Bible says。
about what God has accomplished through the cross of Christ,。
because there's also, of course, secondly,。
hope for the nations.。
You see, the opening chapters of Genesis,。
that Act I and II,。
present not just that all human beings are sinners,。
but also the problem of the nations,。
that the nations, too, are scattered and broken and divided.。
God's got a very big problem on his hands.。
It's not just that we are sinned and the earth is cursed,。
but that nations are also scattered and divided.。
And the chapters four to 11 of Genesis。
show very clearly that sin isn't just personal.。
It affects society and cultures and generations,。
so much so that by the time of Noah,。
we are told several times in those chapters。
that God saw that the earth was filled。
with corruption and violence.。
Now, those are social things.。
That's what people do to each other.。
And so that's why, as we've been seeing earlier on,。
the promise of Genesis 12 is so important,。
that God says to Abraham,。
in the context of the Tower of Babel in chapter 11,。
God says that through you,。
all nations on earth will be blessed,。
not just experiencing that curse.。
The blessing of God is to go far as the curse is found。
in Isaac Newton's great hymn, "Joy to the World."。
Unfortunately, the modern translation of that hymn。
has spoiled Isaac Newton's meaning,。
because you know that where it says,。
"No more let thorns and thistles grow。
"or sin infest the ground.。
"He comes to make his blessings flow。
"far as the curse is found."。
That's explicitly relating Genesis 12, 11, and 12.。
The more recent version of that hymn says,。
"Far as guilt, wherever guilt is found,"。
which again, reduces, it's theological reductionism,。
as if somehow God's blessing。
was only because of human guilt,。
whereas actually the text,。
and what Isaac Newton was saying,。
was that God's blessing is for the whole of creation as well。
wherever the curse is found,。
not just wherever guilt is found.。
Anyway, that was an aside, it isn't in my text,。
so sorry, Stephen, you didn't have that earlier.。
Now what we see then, is that God's promises you see then。
speak of his blessing for nations。
as well as for individuals,。
and we saw some of that in the Psalms,。
in the second lecture,。
Psalms which speak about all the nations you have made。
will come to worship you,。
all the families of the nations,。
but in Isaiah, which of course is so influential on Paul,。
it's particularly the case。
that this is seen as part of the hope。
of the reign of the Messiah, son of David,。
that when he comes to reign,。
then it's good news for the nations specifically.。
So, Isaiah chapter two,。
when the mountain of the Lord is lifted up。
and all the nations will stream to it,。
many peoples will come and say,。
hey, let's go up to the mountain of Yahweh the Lord,。
the temple of the God of Jacob,。
he will teach us his ways,。
we will walk in his ways,。
and then he will judge between the nations。
and settle disputes, wouldn't that be great?。
And they will beat their swords into plowshares。
and their spears into pruning hooks,。
and nations will not take up sword against nation,。
they won't train for war anymore.。
What a hope for the nations, the ending of war,。
and that's what Isaiah specifically says,。
and then he repeats it in Isaiah chapter 11,。
that the shoot of Jesse, i.e. the son of David,。
will come and it will bring blessing and righteousness。
and justice to the nations and indeed to creation.。
Isaiah chapter 60 speaks about all the nations。
coming to worship God,。
and at the very end of Isaiah, in Isaiah chapter 66,。
we read God saying this,。
God says that I, because of what they have planned and done,。
I am about to come and gather the people。
of all nations and languages,。
and they will come and see my glory,。
and I will set my sign among them,。
and then it says they will proclaim my glory。
among the nations.。
So you see, when Paul talks in Romans 15。
about the hope of the nations, of the God of that hope,。
it's speaking about all the nations,。
and it comes from the Old Testament,。
and it comes, of course, to its climax,。
as you can see on the screen in Romans chapter,。
in Revelation chapter seven, verses nine and 10,。
I've referred to this earlier,。
where John says that there I saw a great multitude。
from every tribe, nation, people, and language。
standing before the throne and before the Lamb.。
That's there in Revelation seven,。
and it isn't forgotten in the rest of the book,。
because in Revelation 21, we read this,。
in verses 24 to 26, that the nations will walk by its light,。
that is the light of the city of God,。
and the kings of the earth will bring their splendor。
into the city of God.。
The glory and the honor of the nations。
will be brought into the city of God.。
Now, that's astonishing,。
because all through the book of Revelation,。
the kings and the nations are the bad guys.。
They're the ones who are in rebellion against God.。
They're persecuting the people of God.。
They've got the blood of the martyrs on their hands.。
So in some radical transformation,。
the kings and the nations of the world。
are there in this new creation, as nations,。
as kings, bringing their glory into the kingdom of God.。
So much so that the book of Revelation can end, almost,。
in its closing verses in chapter 22,。
with the tree of life, and the leaves of the tree。
are for the healing of the nations.。
An incredible statement there,。
right at the end of the Bible.。
So from the old through to the new, there is hope.。
Hope not only for sinners, but hope for the nations.。
Now, I don't know what that means.。
I don't know how to get my head around that。
in terms of what is that going to mean。
in our human history.。
It's bigger than I can imagine.。
That's 'cause it comes from God,。
and God is always bigger than we can imagine.。
But it gives us hope for the future, for this planet,。
that God ultimately has a plan。
that will bring blessing, peace, healing,。
and the end of war and strife to the nations of this world.。
Isn't that good?。
Good news?。
Hallelujah?。
Thank you.。
But more than that, finally,。
there is hope for creation itself.。
You see, again, God's big problem。
wasn't just that Adam and Eve had sinned.。
It wasn't just that the nations were scattered,。
but that he said, "Cursed is the earth,。
"the ground, because of you."。
There is something in creation。
that is not the way it was intended to be.。
Now, there's all sorts of ways of talking about that。
that I don't want to go into,。
but the Apostle Paul in Romans 8 agrees.。
He says that creation was subjected to frustration.。
He uses the word mataiotes,。
which is the same in the Greek translation。
of Ecclesiastes, Hevel, which was translated vanity.。
It's all something about this world,。
which is frustrated and not the way it should be.。
Yes, we can say that creation gives glory to God,。
and indeed, the Psalms will tell us that.。
The whole creation is singing the praises and glory of God,。
and yet, even though it is doing that,。
it's still, in some sense, frustrated in it.。
And I have to say that there are times。
when I look out at the glories of our world。
on a wonderful day, or the mountains,。
or the grandeur of some great scene,。
and I say to myself, wow,。
if this is what it looks like when it's frustrated,。
what's it gonna look like when it's liberated。
in God's new creation?。
So the creation itself, then, is frustrated,。
but God says in both the Psalms and in Isaiah。
that his plans are, indeed,。
for a whole new heaven and a new earth,。
not in the sense of a complete replacement heaven and earth,。
but a renewal, a restoration。
of what the earth was intended to be.。
So read Isaiah chapter 65, verses 17 to 25.。
Yes, there it is.。
"See, I am creating," says God.。
It's a participle.。
"I am creating new heavens and a new earth."。
And then it describes that new heavens and new earth。
in the most wonderfully earthy language.。
It talks about human life, about family.。
It talks about work.。
It talks about building houses and vineyards,。
and satisfaction, and no more frustration in our work,。
and so on.。
It's a wonderful picture of the new creation。
there in Isaiah 65.。
It's repeated in chapter 66,。
and of course it influenced John in Revelation chapter 21。
of the new creation.。
But it's also there in the Psalms and elsewhere。
where the psalmist portrays the whole of creation。
as rejoicing.。
And yes, it's poetic,。
and we need to understand it in that sense,。
but it is still pretty marvelous。
that when you have said among the nations。
that the Lord reigns,。
the kingdom of God in among the nations,。
then let the heavens rejoice,。
let the earth be glad,。
let the sea resign and all that's in it,。
let the fields be jubilant and everything in them,。
let all the trees of the field sing for joy,。
let all creation rejoice before the Lord.。
Why?。
That he's coming because he comes.。
And what's he gonna do?。
He comes to judge the world with righteousness.。
In other words, he's coming to put things right,。
'cause that's what it means when God acts as judge.。
He gets things sorted out, he puts things right.。
And the whole of creation is rejoicing。
and waiting for that day when God puts everything right.。
That's, I think, what influenced Paul in Romans 8,。
when he says in Romans 8, verses 18 to 25,。
that the whole of creation is just longing for that day。
when it will be liberated at the same time。
as we experience the redemption of our bodies.。
Paul puts together the resurrection of the body。
with the redemption of creation.。
That's a fascinating parallel.。
It's actually very important when people try to think of,。
well, what is the new creation gonna be like?。
Well, it's gonna be like our resurrection bodies,。
and our resurrection bodies are like the body of Jesus。
who was risen from the dead.。
And when you ask, well, the risen Jesus,。
was he the same as the earthly Jesus or different?。
Yeah, both.。
It was the same Jesus.。
They recognized him.。
They saw the wounds in his hands and his feet and his side.。
So it was the same Jesus,。
and yet it was a resurrected Jesus.。
He was a whole new mode of being in the new creation,。
the first fruits of the new creation.。
And so in that sense, I think,。
when we talk about the new heavens and the new earth,。
will it be just like this old heaven?。
Well, yes and no.。
It will be this earth.。
It will be this heaven,。
but it will be now restored, refreshed, renewed,。
cleansed, purged in the new creation.。
That's what I think Paul is talking about in Romans 8.。
And he says that's already been accomplished。
in Colossians 1, verses 15 to 20.。
That marvelous passage where Paul,。
it's just incredible what he says.。
About five times, he talks about all things,。
all things in heaven and earth.。
He couldn't make it any more clear。
that he's talking about the whole of creation.。
And he says Christ is the origin.。
He's the head.。
He's the source.。
He holds it all together.。
And through him, through Christ,。
God was pleased to reconcile to himself all things,。
whether things in earth or things in heaven,。
by making peace through his blood shed on the cross.。
Have you ever thought about that?。
That the cross is cosmic in its scope.。
It brings me salvation, brings you salvation.。
It also brings salvation to the whole of creation.。
So we're not going to be saved out of this world.。
I wish we didn't have so many hymns and songs。
which talk about going somewhere else.。
You know, they're really not biblical.。
In fact, I get our music leaders at All Souls。
to change the words sometimes.。
Even great hymns like, you know,。
how great thou art,。
when Christ shall come with shout of acclamation。
and take me home,。
he's not coming to take me anywhere.。
He is coming to make his home here.。
So we sing that, when Christ shall come and makes his home.。
That's the way we sing it at All Souls,。
because that's what it says in the Bible.。
The Bible does not end with us going up to heaven.。
The Bible ends with God bringing heaven to earth,。
bringing the city of God here.。
Then the dwelling place of God will be with us,。
it says in Revelation 21, three times.。
Revelation 21 is the great Emmanuel fulfillment,。
God with us.。
Emmanuel means God with us,。
not us going somewhere to be with God,。
but God coming to restore his creation。
in Revelation 21 and 22.。
We could go on about that.。
Perhaps the last thing to say then。
is very close to the end of the Bible。
in Revelation 22, verse three.。
Immediately after it says that the leaves of the tree。
will be for the healing of the nations,。
the next verse says, no longer will there be any curse.。
The curse on the earth will be gone in the new creation.。
So therefore we need our whole Bible, I will end by saying,。
to tell us who we are, to tell us why we're here,。
to tell us how we should live,。
and to tell us what we can look forward to。
in the hope of sinners, of the nations, and of creation.。
So may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace。
as you trust in him so that you may overflow with hope。
by the power of the Holy Spirit.。
Amen.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
