[Music]。
Good evening, friends, brothers and sisters.。
Michael Chu here.。
It's a great joy to see all of you.。
Even we have a bit of rain outside,。
but still you come all the way to join us.。
This particular evening is an important one。
because we have a keynote speaker,。
a prominent speaker here with us.。
So I particularly would like to welcome many of you.。
Some of you are graduates, some are students,。
some are good friends of CGST.。
So your coming is a great support to this college。
and also it's especially love to see you all here.。
So now from time to time,。
CGST organize lectures or seminars。
and I'm sure many of you join us。
and you have a great memories here。
and I hope that tonight is also another one。
so we can learn a lot from our speakers.。
This evening we are so privileged to have。
Dr. Mark Leperton to be with us.。
Dr. Leperton served as president in FULA for a number of years。
from 2013 to 2022.。
And Mark is now the Clifford Arrow Panel。
Presidential Chair Emeritus。
and the Professor Emeritus of Preaching at FULA.。
Mark is a highly respected and a great voice in America,。
in the Christian world,。
and also in the English speaking world.。
So tonight I'm sure Mark will give us a lot of insight。
or even provoke us into a lot of thoughts.。
And tonight Mark Leperton will speak to us on the topic。
"Rethinking Relevance, Reimagining the American Church for Today's Society."。
I'm sure many of us today, we are so concerned the relevance,。
the relevance of the gospel,。
the relevance of the church to the society,。
how we could make a great connection。
and preach our gospel effectively to our non-Christian world.。
And this evening after Mark's lecture, we have two respondents.。
The first one is Reverend Jackie Chok.。
He's the Senior Pastor of our Kowloon Lingling Church.。
In fact, Reverend Chok or Dr. Chok.。
He's actually graduated from FULA, D-Min in 2016.。
So tonight we have a FULA graduate respond to a FULA president.。
So it's wonderful.。
And also we have another respondent is our Professor Dr. Keane Lui.。
He's the Heavenly Blessing Professor, Theological Study of CGST.。
And he's also Director of the Center for Faith and Prophetic Value.。
Why we have Dr. Keane here?。
Because he had been in New York,。
the East Coast of America for so many years.。
So he's also a very right person to give response.。
So I'm sure tonight through the lecture of Mark and also Jackie and Keane,。
we have a colorful of discussion and dialogue.。
And also I'm sure they're sharing their response or dialogue。
with sort of edifying all of us tonight.。
So may I now ask all of us to welcome Mark Lepperton.。
Come over here.。
[ Applause ]。
>> Thank you very much.。
It is a great joy to be here.。
CGST has been a place that I've known about for probably 40 years.。
I first learned of it when I was working in London。
and actually had the opportunity and privilege of meeting Dr. Carver there.。
And had the opportunity since then to know many people who have been connected to CGST.。
And there's a very warm connection between Fuller Theological Seminary and CGST.。
So all of that is another cause for celebration.。
I certainly want to thank Dr. Bernard Wong for his very kind invitation to be here。
this week teaching as well as that is this past week.。
And to say I see a number of faces from people that were in the class.。
So I'm grateful that you were able to come back this evening as well.。
I also want to just express that I'm grateful for the opportunity。
to be here at such an important time in Hong Kong's history.。
I am humbled by the timing and I'm humbled by what all of you are facing.。
And how well and how deeply I think God is meeting you and sustaining you。
and giving you hope and strength in all kinds of different ways.。
And none of us knows the future.。
None of us knows the timing of the future even more.。
So we acknowledge in humility before God that we are all people that are simply trying。
in the wisest way that we can to honor God by being together and thinking together tonight.。
I do want to bring particularly warm greetings from Dr. David Emanuel Goatley。
who is the president of Fuller Seminary where I get to serve as president emeritus.。
But he's now the one carrying the mantle of that leadership and I'm extremely grateful.。
He wanted me to particularly send his greetings along with the board of trustees of Fuller.。
The reflections that I'm going to share tonight are reflections that I hope are offered with。
sufficient humility before the Lord because I really do think that when we're talking about。
the church, whether it's in America or in Hong Kong or any other part of the world,。
we're talking about the bride of Christ.。
And I want to underscore that for me that does give me a certain intentional sobriety.。
That is a sense that this is something that God is deeply vested in.。
And while I will offer words of critique as well as appreciation,。
both are meant as simply as offerings and observations before the God who alone is really。
the one who has ever been the source of hope for the church and is still the hope of the church.。
So like you, it is simply an astounding surprise to me that I even belong to the family of God's。
people.。
I was not born and raised in the life of the church.。
This happened for me when I was in my early 20s in college.。
And it still is a source of marvel to me that somehow God found me and called me and has been。
with me in all of the highs and lows and in between.。
So I really come tonight simply as a sibling of faith with you.。
We are all trying to figure out what we're doing, and we're all trying to offer what we have to God。
for whatever purpose God may want.。
So let me offer a word of prayer.。
Oh God, how grateful we are that in your wonderful mercy and kindness that you are with us and that。
we have a chance tonight to be able to think together, to be able to feel after you and your。
purposes, yes, in part for the church in the United States, but certainly the church in Hong Kong,。
in China, and throughout the whole world.。
We bow in the deepest humility that you who hold all things and hold all things together。
should actually invite us in some way.。
To be a participant with you in the things that are so enormously important.。
We're grateful for your faithfulness.。
Take my words and insofar as they are a blessing, help people to think further about them.。
And insofar as they're distracting or unhelpful, may they fall away.。
Give you thanks tonight for the gift of being together.。
Amen.。
It's inevitable that in talking about relevance that we have to talk about context.。
Context is what creates relevance, right?。
It's relevance to a time, place, people, circumstance, whatever that may be.。
So I'd like to begin with two different images of churches trying to grapple with context.。
The first, I'll say, comes a number of years ago when I had the opportunity and privilege。
of preaching at Nanjing Seminary for the first commencement service that they had in their new。
chapel. It had been a very large unfinished form on the campus for years and years and。
the money simply hadn't been there to be able to finish the chapel.。
So on my first visit to the campus years before that, it had been this large,。
empty hulk that had not yet been finished.。
But when I went back again, two, three years later, it had been finished.。
And it turned out that it was the first time that the chapel was going to be used as a site。
for their commencement.。
And they, with a great honor, asked if I would preach at the commencement service.。
When I came in, the building does not occupy a large space, but it is enormous.。
It's enormous inside.。
And in taking all of that in, I was aware that there were these really large lights。
on the sides of the buildings that made the room exceptionally, brilliantly lit.。
But what I also noticed was in the ceiling, there were these little, small lanterns that。
were about this big, that were hanging inside this enormous space.。
And I kept thinking, I wonder why the architect would design a light that would be so small。
compared to the space.。
And as I was just taking it in, looking at the vastness of the space, and I saw these。
little lanterns, and I thought, I think this is an act of theology.。
I think what's happening is that the architect has designed these small lights to suggest。
that really probably the church in China is a bit like these small lights in a very vast。
space.。
So I said to the graduates of that commencement, you are these lanterns.。
And if the big lights go out, there is still this small light that you are going to be。
shining wherever it is in China that God may call you to be.。
And you're going to be doing that in the name of Christ, who is a light that can never be。
extinguished.。
It will be a light that will be with you in any and every place.。
All of that was a telling of a story architecturally of what the gospel in context means.。
Let me now change and tell you a different story.。
The church I serve for almost 25 years altogether in Berkeley, California, is surrounded by。
the University of California, Berkeley, which, if you don't know, is kind of a crazy place.。
It's a very, very highly regarded university, but it has a wild political history.。
And at the time that the church that I'm going to be describing this, the church in the 1960s,。
long before I was ever associated with it, the church had gone through a time when there。
were riots in Berkeley every two or three months for four years.。
And right at that moment, the church's building was condemned by the fire marshal.。
For having a large stone belfry, which the fire marshal thought would be dangerous in。
earthquake territory.。
So he condemned the building and said, "This whole building has to be torn down."。
So you can imagine if a church that's surrounded by rioting, and I mean really surrounded by。
rioting, for four years, has suddenly the announcement that its building is condemned,。
then it was a time to evaluate.。
Are we going to stay on this property?。
Are we going to move further away?。
Amazingly, the church courageously decided to stay right on that corner.。
And then it did something even more amazing to me, which was that they tore down this。
old stone sanctuary, which was very beautiful, but it was made of these stones, and they。
built a clear glass-walled church.。
So anything that's happening in the streets of Berkeley, you see when you're in the middle。
of worship.。
And whatever's happening in worship is seen by everyone who's passing by.。
And they built the church with only one cross, which was not inside the building.。
It was just outside the front steps.。
And it was to say, "It's one cross for the world."。
And it's true for life inside the church.。
It's true for life outside the church.。
It makes a claim on everything and everyone.。
And it was a statement of the daringness of saying, staying, that we're going to stay。
on this corner and continue to try to be a witness to a light and a life that still matters。
in Berkeley, even if you're having a riot every few months for four years.。
Now, these are two stories of how to live with context, how to somehow, in those two。
cases, just architecturally reflect this.。
Of course, the reality of the gospel is much deeper than our architecture.。
But our architecture does tell a story.。
And in this case, what I want to suggest tonight and what I hope will be an aspirational vision。
and a hopeful vision, but a difficult perspective, is this, that I hope for the American church,。
which Bernard suggested would be a good thing for me to talk about.。
It was his decision, not mine.。
[LAUGHTER]。
I didn't come needing to talk about the American church, but since I've been invited to talk。
about the American church, I will.。
This is my hope.。
I intend that tonight I want to argue that the church in the United States needs to be。
an embodied, credible, and beautiful witness to the relevance of God's love in Jesus Christ,。
and especially so in contexts of spiritual confusion and places of suffering, physical。
suffering, poverty, and injustice.。
It needs to be a gospel with credibility that is it's believable, not perfect, not a church。
that's perfect and pristine and pure.。
That is the eternal church, just a church that is credible, that when it speaks and。
acts, each reinforces the other.。
These are themes in the Gospel of Matthew, and last week we were thinking as a class。
about those connections deeply.。
That is the call of any church in any context at any time.。
But how do we do this in an embodied way, that is not in just a language-formed way,。
but in a physical body, in a physical manifestation, in a community or a communion of other。
people who are sharing the reality of this beautiful witness to the relevance of God's。
love in Jesus Christ in every sphere, both spiritually and also physically, politically?。
So as we go from here for this evening, because we're going to start at the largest level。
and work into the more granular level, I'd like to invite us to take a moment of silence。
to all stand, if you would, please, just for a moment, if you would stand.。
I'm going to ask us to be silent for a moment, and then I would like to ask us to say the。
Apostles' Creed together as a way of affirming in the biggest possible theological framework。
who it is that we're here to honor and whose church it is that we're talking about.。
So let's pause for a moment.。
Please, when you come to say the Apostles' Creed, speak in whatever language you would。
most prefer.。
But first, let's be silent.。
And we say together, I believe in God, the Father Almighty, creator of heaven and earth,。
and in Jesus Christ, his only Son, our Lord, who was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born。
of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died, and was buried.。
He descended into hell.。
On the third day, he rose again from the dead.。
He ascended into heaven and is seated at the right hand of God, the Father Almighty.。
From there, he will come to judge the living and the dead.。
I believe in the Holy Spirit, the holy Catholic Church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness。
of sins, the resurrection of the body, and life everlasting.。
Amen.。
Please be seated.。
When the Apostles' Creed was written, it was written at a time and place in Christian。
history in which it was meant to try to give an articulate expression of a theological。
frame for the most essential Christian doctrines.。
It is, like any creed, never sufficient to the whole, but adequate for the moment and。
very much a reflection of the debates that were going on at the time that the Apostles'。
Creed was written, as were every other creed that has ever been written.。
And I use it tonight simply as a framework to say, if it expresses the largest theological。
framework for what God has actually done and what the Church is meant to confess and to。
believe and to live in light of, then how does it help us understand the relevance of。
the gospel?。
Let's first think in this way.。
Let's think about the relevance that comes from above and then in a moment about the。
relevance that comes from below.。
The relevance that comes from below, I suggest, has several assumptions.。
The first relevance is this, that God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, through the。
power and presence of the Holy Spirit, is of unending relevance to us and to the world.。
It is just an established ontological fact that if it is true that there is such a God,。
that that God has spoken in Jesus Christ, that God in Jesus Christ has come for the。
salvation of the world, to both teach and lead and exemplify to us what a full humanity。
looks like and to call us into the new humanity of living as God's people in the world, then。
he, this is the relevance that God needs and the only relevance God needs, but it is every。
relevance.。
It is every relevance in the sense that it is relevance for everyone and for everything.。
There is no place beyond which this relevance extends.。
Now, we don't just say this as an abstraction.。
I want to suggest that it's not at maybe the broadest frame.。
I want to suggest that it's at the deepest frame instead and call it the ground, the。
soil from which Christian faith and human life and creation itself exists because God。
is this kind of God.。
And therefore, this kind of God is the God who in Christ, as Colossians 1 suggests, is。
the God who holds all things together, the one who was the firstborn of creation and。
the firstborn from the dead.。
This is a picture that if we're ever wanting what is relevant at any given moment, God。
is by definition relevant.。
And in the language of the Bible, this is not distant relevance.。
This is actually proximal relevance.。
It's God at close hand.。
So the confession, as you know, goes through the first framing, only four lines that are。
specifically related to God the Father and the Creator.。
And the rest of the creed is really centered in Jesus Christ and then the Spirit and then。
the gift of the church.。
This is a remarkable amount of relevance.。
Now, this is relevance that's of such first order that if no one believed it, it is still。
relevant.。
If it was never seen, confessed, understood, it would still be the thing on which everything。
else ultimately takes its cue and finds its life.。
This is the kind of relevance that's so profound that we--it's like saying that the sky begins。
in our lungs, right?。
It's not the sky out there, it's the sky here.。
The relevance of God begins actually in the foundation of our very being, that we are。
certainly made in the image of God, but that God is the one who really holds all of my。
and your particularity, all of our contextual details, all of our social and political challenges,。
all of that is known and loved by God.。
Let's think about some of the texts in the scriptures that just remind us of this.。
I'm going to start with the New Testament primarily, only the New Testament for the。
sake of time, but to acknowledge also that this full reality is in Jesus Christ.。
The Gospel of John puts it this way, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with。
God, and the Word was God.。
He was in the beginning with God.。
All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made.。
In him was life, and the life was the light of men.。
The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it.。
The true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world.。
He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him.。
He came to his own, and his people did not receive him.。
But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children。
of God, who were born not of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.。
And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of。
the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth."。
I hope you noticed in that longer opening paragraph that the relevance of God and God's。
love in Christ was not just for those who were able to hear and receive it.。
Did you hear that?。
It's really quite amazing.。
He, that is Jesus, was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world。
did not know him.。
In other words, he was utterly relevant to their sheer existence and was not recognized。
for who he was.。
And then, as though that's not enough, he comes to his own, that is to Israel, and his。
own people did not receive him.。
So even though he was that proximate, nevertheless, Israel, as you know, did not receive him.。
But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children。
of God.。
Relevance, then, is found at every level.。
It's found in existence, it's found in Israel, it's found in the people who rejected。
him, but it's also found in the people who accept him.。
This is one way of simply referring back to the ontological existential relevance of God,。
and specifically to human beings, that God is not primarily dependent on the church,。
but on the God who promises and is faithful in Jesus Christ.。
In other words, we don't come to the question of relevance by trying to figure out how do。
we make the church relevant.。
We come to the question of relevance through the lens of God, who is relevant by the nature。
of God's own being.。
And we share, as people made in God's image, the burden of a vocation that is actually。
meant to make Christ now visible, audible, palpable, physically manifest, embodied, to。
a world that thinks there is no God, or that absolutely rejects that there is any God,。
whether it's Yahweh, Jesus, or anyone or anything else, or to people with various religious。
and competing views, all of which, in the language of the New Testament and language。
of the Bible, would be supplanted by this vision of the God who holds all things.。
It means, then, that without any protest, without any insistence, without any sense。
that the church is making God relevant, as though God has no relevance, we, the church,。
are going to be the bridge to make God relevant.。
Instead, we begin with this deep conviction, a grounding conviction, a soil out of which。
our life and work and ministry is formed, because this is who God is.。
I want to underscore this, not because we're not going to go on and talk about how the。
church does play a role, but to simply acknowledge to ourselves that the church has a secondary。
role, and if the church ever gets confused about that, that it thinks it is the primary。
agent of relevance, and that we have to make ourselves relevant in a way that is more important。
than who God actually is, himself is, or what God has already done, then the church is already。
in a very troubled place.。
There are ways in the history of the church where the church has threateningly replaced。
God, and essentially said to its members, "Come and follow us, we who are of this era,。
of this denomination, of this inclination, of this way of liturgical practice, of this。
hierarchy of ecclesiastical leadership."。
The church has actually been a rival to God in the name of God.。
That is obviously an offense to God, but it's a very important warning, and when it's not。
being a warning, it's a very important gift to realize that before I wake up in the morning,。
before I or you or the graduates of CGST or the faculty of CGST or the church in Hong。
Kong or China or the United States even moves an inch, does anything, the gospel that we。
put our trust in is relevant to everyone and everything.。
To me, this picture is extremely important, especially if we're going to then go on and。
talk about other practical ways in which we are meant to be relevant, but it's not in。
this primary sense that God alone makes the gospel relevant.。
God is the one who creates and loves and promises and sacrifices everything that all things。
might be made new in Jesus Christ.。
It's really a magnificent biblical vision.。
Let's then move from relevance from above, you might say, or from the ground to relevance。
from below and beside.。
Here, the question is the relevance of the church to the gospel itself, or not yet the。
relevance of the church to society.。
Is the church relevant to the gospel?。
Again, in ontological theological terms, yes, the church is God's design, but does the church。
live like it is relevant to the gospel?。
Does the church show that it understands that it lives in this reality that we've just。
sketched, this large framework of what God is doing?。
Or has the church decided to just come up with its own little enterprises, its own little。
tasks, its busy work, its organizational structures, its religious fussiness?。
Or is it actually relevant to God?。
In other words, does it reflect the gospel?。
The relevance of the church to the gospel has to precede the question of then how does。
that church that could be living in a relevant way to the gospel then is also relevant to。
the world?。
So how is the church relevant to the gospel in any given time and place?。
This is actually a much more difficult question.。
It's much more complicated.。
It intersects with history in a way in which God is not the only actor.。
He's still the primary actor, but now the church is filled with actors.。
We, who are part of the church, the church across the centuries, the church around the。
world, the church across every denomination and manifestation.。
God's mysterious economy has always chosen finite and fallen human beings to be the agents。
of his truth and goodness and mercy.。
I don't know about you, I find this one of the great mysteries of the universe.。
Why would the God who holds all things deploy a group of people, which I say with affection,。
like us, to be the people who carry forth the reality of God's love and mercy and justice。
for the world?。
Seriously?。
This is God's plan?。
In Matthew, we discussed last week that at the end, just before the Great Commission,。
when God and Jesus is sending them out, there's a very interesting note that I think is often。
not observed in Matthew 28, where Matthew, who has said so much about the 12, the 12,。
the 12, the 12, the 12, the 12, and so much about the fact that this is really a portrait。
of Jesus as the new Moses who's launching a new era for God's people.。
It says in Matthew 28, "And then Jesus gathered with the 11."。
If you've been listening to the voice of Matthew, by the time you get to that moment,。
it's like, "Oh, it's not the perfect number.。
Things happened along the way that didn't go the way that anyone but God may have understood。
them to go.。
It's just 11."。
And then the text goes on to say, "And some believed and doubted."。
And in Greek, it's a little complicated right there because it feels as though it could。
also be saying, "Some believed and doubted."。
That is, some were both believers and doubters.。
So it was to 11 believer doubters that God gave the gospel to the church, not his authority,。
which, interestingly, Roman Catholics believe that authority was transferred to the church.。
Protestants don't believe that was transferred to the church.。
We don't carry God's authority, except insofar as the Holy Spirit authorizes what we're doing,。
but not in the sense that God has given the church the authority to be Jesus Christ in。
the world.。
It's the Holy Spirit's authority who, through us, demonstrates the power of God.。
But my point in all this is that God has chosen finite, limited, fallen human beings to be。
the agents of telling the good news of God's love and mercy to the world.。
This is a shock.。
From the promises to Abraham and Sarah, to Moses, to Israel, all the way through the。
major and minor prophets, the highs and lows and ins and outs of Israel's life, all the。
way to the 12, to Paul, to the growth of the church in the first and second centuries,。
and beyond, all the way to this very day.。
This is God's relentless purpose.。
I want to choose people who, in freedom, will choose me.。
And in the course of that process, I want to deploy them, fill them with the Spirit,。
baptize them in my name, fill them with the Spirit, and commission them to grow up in。
Christ as they grow up and mature in Christ, to be people who become agents of my love,。
God is saying.。
The biblical narrative is of such significant ups and downs as God's people have been, and。
more, far less relevant often to God.。
This is the pain of reading through the 66 books of the Bible.。
How often in the Hebrew Scriptures is God crying out to Israel for its unfaithfulness。
in actually being the kind of distinctive people that God's called them to be?。
And while that tone is less evident in the New Testament, it still is evident in the。
New Testament that God sends apostles to teach, but to also correct the church in its failure。
to be relevant to God.。
So you've taken what I've given you, you've taken it into yourself, you've remade it for。
your own purposes and for your own ends, and now you're going to call it mine, but it's。
really yours, and now you're going to try to be that in the world.。
Clearly, whether we're talking Israel or the church, that methodology is not the way。
that we're supposed to live.。
Often it becomes less relevant to God.。
This is why, for example, in Isaiah 58, so much is said by the prophet that God hates。
Israel's worship, and he hates it primarily because, in that text, he hates it because。
you worship me as if you practiced righteousness.。
Those two words could not be more condemning of Israel.。
In other words, it's like an imitation.。
It's like you're trying to play act worship.。
You're a character in a play trying to pretend to God that you're actually worshiping God,。
when in fact, he would go on to say, in fact, you're really just worshiping yourselves.。
You're seeking your own ends.。
The worship that you're claiming in my name then scandalizes God, and you're doing it。
in my name so other people think that's who I am.。
That's not who I am, God says.。
That's who you are.。
And that's why he then, in the prophet, through the prophet, God says that these are not the。
things.。
Sackcloth and ashes are not the things.。
Burdening your servants are not the things.。
None of that represents me.。
What represents me is if you actually do the weightier matters in the language of Jesus,。
the matters that really care for the poor, that care for the marginalized, that see those。
who are in great need and respond with compassion and mercy and justice.。
These are the things that are meant to actually mark the relevance of the church to the God。
of the gospel.。
Whether Israel or the church, the people of God are meant to be a reflection of the character。
and actions of God that we worship.。
In Christ, we understand that this is meant to be, as in Philippians 2, 1 through 11,。
the story of self-emptying power.。
It's the story of how God is not dominating but sacrificing, the God who is self-giving.。
The church's temptation has always been to imitate empire and not to imitate the sacrificial。
love and self-giving of Jesus Christ.。
The crisis of the church in the United States in this first quarter of the 21st century。
is broadly the story of the church in the United States often being irrelevant to the。
gospel but doing all kinds of things in the name of the gospel in a way that then is confusing,。
does not stand the test of time, is not blessed and honored by God in the way that it can。
or should be.。
I, of course, want to say that there have been, by God's faithfulness, so many stories。
through the American church of the evidence and presence of the power of the Spirit at。
work over all of the hundreds of years, not in China's case, the thousands of years, in。
the hundreds of years.。
Native Americans have been there for thousands of years but we who look more like me have。
only been there for a few hundred years.。
And in that period of time, God has been faithful.。
There is evidence of God's blessing.。
There is.。
But tragically, again, it's been tended to be a church that over and over again looks。
more like Israel that God battered against in the words of the prophets than a church。
that actually mirrors God's character and love in the world.。
The crisis of the church in this period of time then is that it is less and less relevant。
to God in its struggle to be more and more relevant to the culture and to the power structures。
of the culture than it's probably ever been.。
It's possible that it's parallel to the kind of judgment that God offers to Israel and。
it comes back again and again.。
The key question for the American church and perhaps everywhere is this, will the church。
be God's church?。
Will it actually be the people who live a Christian identity?。
Or are we just going to say we claim a Christian identity but live in a way that is functionally。
really nothing more than a reflection of culture, nothing more than a reflection of human desire,。
however that might be structured or expressed?。
Will the church be relevant to God?。
Will it in that sense be reflective of God?。
Will it be a church that when it's encountered, people say, "Oh, this is a taste of God."。
To be in this community of faith, to be with these people, to be in their presence, to。
share life together, will we live our Christian identity?。
Right now the church in America is facing all kinds of temptations to be absorbed even。
more in cultural formation rather than in gospel formation.。
And so much of what I'm sure you read about and find offensive about what's going on in。
the American church is offensive, it's rightly understood to be offensive.。
There's so many different ways in which this is evident, and it's tragic, and it's painful,。
and it feels like a multi-generational tragedy that's been unfolding, especially really in。
the last, I'll say, eight years or so, but has been really a part of the American church。
since it began.。
That's a much longer story than we have time to get into, but really from the beginning,。
the struggle of the American founding being a departure from empire, to come to a place。
of freedom and yet to immediately exercise empire over all the Native people that were。
there, and to operate in a way that said, "Okay, we can now reject all those authorities,"。
only to put themselves in the same kind of authoritative positions and to manifest a。
gospel which then conquered the land in a way that it understood as the promised land,。
but which brutalized thousands of people and destroyed many, many, many ways of life with。
no sensitivity to the character of God in the relationship to this.。
It's no wonder then that along from the beginning, slavery is already a significant part of。
American history, American church and Christian history, and it goes all the way up to the。
middle of the 19th century that it's in full legal formation, and then it extends even。
further in something that you may have read about called the Jim Crow era, which is a。
period where basically slavery is no longer legal, but it's functionally still practiced。
in a whole variety of socially horrific ways.。
Just that one theme is enough to say the American church is hardly a reflection of the God of。
all mercy and justice and love who sets people free.。
The relevance of Jesus to contemporary life has to connect with all the questions, all。
the issues, all the circumstances, the injustices, the hopes, the social needs, the transformation,。
the politics, the stewardship of the earth, the spiritual void, and much, much more.。
The church's relevance to the times needs to demonstrate not that it is relevant, but。
that the God that we worship in Christ is relevant to all of the structures and powers。
and forces of darkness that exist around us, that we are meant to be agents of beauty and。
goodness and love and mercy and justice, and we're meant to show up as that kind of church。
because that would be a reflection of the compassion and love of how God has acted in。
Jesus Christ.。
To distill it in the way Jesus does, again, in Matthew, as had been said in the Hebrew。
Scriptures, that the first and second commandments, loving God with all our heart, mind, soul,。
and strength, and loving our neighbor as ourselves, is still the very core of how the church shows。
that it is like God.。
It's not just to figure out some way of entertaining the culture, some way of imagining how to。
find pleasure amidst the culture.。
It's how to actually love people in those contexts and to do it in a way that mirrors。
God, not just a way that mirrors sometimes very superficial culture, as though it's about。
bringing in more balloons, more screens, more technological magic, more big stage speakers,。
more awesome bands.。
All of that can happen, but if it doesn't actually manifest itself at the core as really。
being about the love of God, first and foremost, and the love for one another in God's name,。
then it is not a church that has the relevance to God or to the world that it's actually。
meant to have.。
These commandments name what is most important to God and most needed in the world.。
And if we do love God with all our heart, mind, soul, and strength, and our neighbors。
as ourselves, it will lead to reordering power.。
It will change the way that we love.。
It will change the way that we see our neighbor.。
It will change our capacity to move beyond self-interest into actually being more interested。
in the other, the neighbor, the stranger, and even the enemy.。
This is the only relevance that actually matters.。
If the church doesn't do this, then we could have spectacular buildings, small lights,。
big lights, stone buildings, glass buildings.。
If in the end, we're not a people, an organic people that embody the relevance of the gospel,。
then we have lost the relevance that actually matters.。
And it's the relevance that is always the most at risk.。
This is all part of the mystery of God's strategy.。
The number one risk is to give an eternal mission to a finite and flawed people.。
And as that plays out, God seems to have tolerance, patience, love.。
He's going to mature us in that process of this growing up.。
And it is a remarkable picture of how important it is that we pay attention to these things.。
I'll move a little quicker because I know we've been going for some time.。
When do I need to be done with my part of it?。
Am I already supposed to be done?。
Oh my gosh.。
Well, oh my gosh.。
I really thought I had a bit longer.。
Okay, so we will jump then quickly.。
Okay.。
No, no, no.。
We want to hear from you.。
So let me just see how to do this.。
Okay, I'll just say three things and then I'll be done and then we'll leave it to you.。
So what constitutes the relevance of the church?。
I would say first and foremost, a church that is relevant is relevant to a。
in the sense of being a credible reflection of the life and the character of God.。
If those things are not true, if the church, if in some ways the experience of the church。
doesn't have the aroma of Christ about it, if it primarily has the aroma of wealth or。
power or entertainment and not the aroma, the core aroma that Christ is in this place,。
then we already have to ask ourselves, are we really a church that's anything more than。
simply a reflection of our sociology?。
Are we just the people that we would be without Christ?。
We just happen to be with Christ, we say, but then we just go on living and being the。
same kind of people we would be otherwise.。
Secondly, if the church takes God with full seriousness, with radical, it means that if。
the church takes God with full seriousness, it's relevant and if it does that, it will。
involve radical love and reordered power.。
Love is often defined as we know, primarily sociologically.。
We grow up in families and cultures and backgrounds that say this is what love looks like.。
If we're thoughtful, reflective, maturing Christians, we have to ask ourselves, how。
does the gospel critique the criteria by which we understand the nature of love?。
And if it doesn't lead us beyond our safety zone, if it doesn't lead us to engage with。
people that are unlike us and not just like us, if it doesn't lead us to see and care。
and extend ourselves in mercy toward people whose circumstances may be dramatically different。
than our own, then we really have to ask, is our religion, is our faith just a protection。
of myself and my own identity as though it is simply about my own self-interest?。
That is one of the major problems in the American church.。
And thirdly, if the church is going to have relevance, it has to be a church that takes。
the world with full seriousness.。
There are theological ideas that have gone on for many years which have really suggested。
that this is just, the earth is just a place we're passing through.。
There is nothing here that really matters.。
You don't need to worry about this injustice or that injustice or this circumstances or。
that kind of suffering.。
None of that really matters because in fact it's all just going to get burned up and God。
will give us a new kingdom.。
Now imagine that view which is a common view in many, many people's underlying theology。
and means that they don't take the world seriously.。
You face Gaza, you face Myanmar, you face Sudan, just to name a few and perhaps many。
others closer at hand.。
And then you just say, it really doesn't matter.。
All of that is irrelevant unless it brings people to Christ.。
And then in the end it's all going to get burned up.。
Imagine God stepping into that scene and says, in fact, all of this matters.。
All of this suffering, all of this injustice, and the world is not going to be burned up.。
In fact, I'm here to fulfill the law, Jesus says in Matthew, but I'm also here to fulfill。
creation.。
I will actually bring it to its ultimate manifestation.。
And the writing and thinking of so many theologians over the centuries, but I think in our own。
day, particularly of the work of Tom Wright, in reconstituting this sort of framework,。
reclaiming the earth, reclaiming the soil, reclaiming bodies, reclaiming the significance。
of suffering as a Christian vocation to step into that gives us relevance.。
There is much more that I had prepared and my apologies for taking anyone's time and。
I'm now very interested in hearing from both of our respondents and then we will have some。
conversation.。
So please, thank you.。
[applause]。
[music]。
