Thank you very much indeed for Reverend Dr. Isaac for giving us a very very。
wonderful presentation and also a timely message for our city as well which is。
full of internal strife and also different kinds of inequalities and。
injustice. Since Dr. Isaac is flying back home tomorrow very early in the morning。
so as a chairperson to keep him safe to keep him returning home safe and sound I。
have to keep the questioning time short. So now we will open the discussion to。
the floor. So if any of you have any questions so please feel free to come。
forward and give the question in English and if you are not feeling。
comfortable about asking in English then you may write on the note paper and our。
helper will pass the note to me and I will try to as best as I can to。
translate your question to Dr. Isaac. So any questions?。
If you don't ask them okay they're over there.。
Hello, thank you for your speech. Thank you for giving the talk. It's very。
inspirational. I have two questions I'd like to ask. I'm Noah from Hong Kong. I'm。
a Christian and I go to church here and I've lived around Palestinian Christians。
well Palestinians and Arabs. What I want to ask is two main questions. One is how。
do we respond to Christians who use the state of Israel as a fulfillment of。
prophecy to enhance the Bible's credibility and also as an evangelical。
tool because I've been to you know mass evangelical meetings. I've worked with。
people who do personal ministries and they use the state of Israel as it。
was established in 1948 as a fulfillment of a biblical prophecy and then they。
will say look the Bible you know prophesied this and it became true. So。
you can see that the Bible is true. It's credible and therefore you should。
believe it. It's a miracle. So that's my first question. Sorry it's a long。
question. The second question is how do we relate to Christians who in good。
faith and in conviction continue to believe and promote Christian Zionism as。
you put it. If you go on the website of BibleGateway.com by the way one of the。
ads is defend Israel know the facts. So and it has a huge American flag paired。
up with the modern-day Israel flag. So those are my two questions. Thank you。
very much.。
Yes Christian Zionism is a big big movement and very very prevalent among。
evangelicals. And so the first question is about Israel being a fulfillment is。
the state of Israel a fulfillment of prophecy. What I always say you know。
after this long presentation in addition to that I say we have two paths. The。
first one is to ask what does the New Testament say about these prophecies?。
Were they fulfilled? And more than many many places the New Testament claims。
that Jesus continued redeemed Israel and restored Israel. In fact many prophecies。
of the Old Testament are declared to have been fulfilled in Jesus not in a。
literal sense. Just to give you an example Amos 9 there is a prophecy about。
the restoration of the tent of David and that Israel will inherit the Edomites。
and the tent of David will be restored. There will be prosperity and so on. If。
you ask any Christian Zionist how is that interpreted they he's tell you。
that's clear that's the state of Israel. And then I said go to Acts 15 and you。
see that Paul Peter sorry James Jesus brother in the council in Jerusalem says。
no that's actually fulfilled through the ministry of the church when Gentiles。
enter into faith. So clearly he didn't adopt a literal strict interpretation to。
prophecies. And I can go to many other places and can give you other examples.。
One statement says in Jesus all the promises of God have their yes and amen.。
And then of course what I said about Galatians 3 even if you know continue to。
believe that Israel will be restored now the promises to Israel because we became。
part of Israel as I explained in Galatians 3 that that should。
challenge that. So that's my first way of saying did the New Testament does the。
New Testament claim that the Old Testament prophecies were fulfilled. But。
even for the sake of argument let's assume that actually the New Testament。
doesn't claim that. Let's for the sake of argument say the Old Testament。
prophecies should be fulfilled and then take Old Testament prophecies and。
compare them with the current reality in the land. They don't match. The only thing。
that matches is the presence of Jews in the land. Everything else doesn't match.。
The prophecies are not about Israel returning to the land. The prophecies are。
about Israel returning to the land and repenting and believing in God and。
building the temple and the Messiah coming there and nations coming to。
Jerusalem to worship the God of Israel and the renewal of nature. Where is that?。
That's not happening. You see so basically if you are a literal Christian。
who believes you should read the Old Testament literally then that means you。
should not believe that Israel is a fulfillment of prophecy because what we。
have today is a secular state that more or less based on our Christian belief at。
least does not believe in Jesus as the Son of God. Okay so it doesn't work on。
both ways and that's how I answer those who say that Israel is a fulfillment of。
prophecy and you're right that many of those who believe in that。
are well-intentioned Christians yet they have as I argue a very most of the time。
limited knowledge and if I dare I say even ignorance about the facts on the。
ground. Oftentimes they are shocked to know that Palestinian Christians exist。
and then they they tell us well okay God loves the children of Ishmael and I tell。
them I'm not the child of Ishmael I'm a child of Abraham. Read the Bible and。
that's when they don't know what to do but the thing that changes most people's。
perception is coming to the land and seeing the realities of injustice on the。
ground and that causes many people to go back to scripture and reading is this。
what prophecy is all about to begin with. So I hope that answers.。
There's a question written in English. How has the response been from Israeli。
Jews regarding your theological views that you proposed here tonight? Do you。
feel that Israeli Jews genuinely are interested in inclusiveness regarding。
the ownership of Palestine or is it more closer to an I win you lose mentality?。
Okay yeah good question. I know of very few Israeli Jews numbered。
messianic Jews but their leaders at least who would listen to my lecture and。
say amen we agree in every word you said.。
And so there are some who would agree with us yet the majority do not accept。
my interpretation of scripture and the majority you see for most messianic。
Jews what we are challenging what I am challenging today has to do with also。
their identity because many of them when they believed in Jesus it happened in a。
place like North America or Canada or outside the land not all but many of。
them and then they thought or they believe that this is the moment in。
history in which God is redeeming the Jewish people and bringing them back to。
the land. So it becomes part of their identity so they move to live in Israel。
and then they encounter us and we tell them you're wrong about all of that and。
so that poses them with a big big challenge usually a lot of withdrawal。
and so today we see a lot of messianic Jews who don't want to engage with us。
theologically and we see others who are willing to engage with us theologically。
so it's not one one way of responding to us or another. We've had messianic Jews。
Israeli messianic Jews who come to Bethlehem to debate us in a very。
friendly manner in which we begin by saying we're one in Christ but we。
disagree on theology. We've met sometimes we meet as theologians to discuss these。
issues and write books in which we present one view they present other view.。
The last year I've done at least two debates with messianic Jews messianic。
Jewish theologian in front of students of theology about these issues and so。
there are different ways in which we deal with these differences and so by。
and large most messianic Jews do not agree with my interpretation yet see me。
still as a brother in Christ and a big number of messianic Jews see it as a I。
win you lose mentality and would not rather engage in dialogue with us yet。
there is a number of them who don't see it as this way and want to emphasize。
that we need to learn from one another. A messianic Jewish friend of mine his name。
is Richard Harvey all the time tells me whenever we debate or talk or write。
statements together that we need to adopt a mentality in which we co-depend。
on one another when we write theology not only we learn but co-depend on one。
another. I don't think we're there yet but at least few of us are aware of the。
other position all the time and try to take it seriously all the time. If you。
are interested in all of this Google Larnaca statement something that。
explains all the differences it's a statement four pages that explains the。
major differences between messianic Jews and Palestinian Christians and suggests。
way of dealing with these differences in the future.。
[Pause]。
It seems that it's a big topic that we need more time to think and well if。
there are no more questions then shall I close tonight's event here and shall we。
please again show our greatest appreciation to Dr. Isaac for his。
wonderful speech tonight. [Applause]。
