(gentle music)。
- Good afternoon.。
Honorable guests, speakers,。
CGST family, brothers and sisters.。
It is my pleasure to welcome everyone。
to the CGST Josephine Soh Culture and Ethics Lecture Week.。
The CGST Josephine Soh Culture and Ethics Lectures。
are sponsored by the Josephine Soh Foundation.。
Every two years, we invite overseas scholars。
and church leaders to speak on issues regarding Christianity,。
culture and ethics that are of concern to Chinese believers.。
This year, we have the honor and privilege。
in welcoming Dr. Christopher Wright,。
Global Ambassador and Ministry Director。
of the Land-Game Partnership.。
He will be our keynote speaker。
for all four sessions of the lectures.。
We are grateful that Dr. Wright is present in person。
to speak to us, which we know。
is no longer given during COVID times.。
The theme for his lecture this week is "Written for Us,。
"The Old Testament as Christian Scripture."。
In this afternoon's first lecture,。
Dr. Wright will talk about the Old Testament。
and Christian identity.。
Who are we?。
After his speech, I will introduce our two correspondents。
who will give their responses, followed by time for Q&A.。
Now, please join us in welcoming Dr. Christopher Wright.。
(audience applauding)。
- Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you so much, Professor Lee, for your welcome。
and to CGST for having me back.。
It's lovely to be here again.。
I remember standing at this podium several times。
in the past and enjoying both some teaching。
and some lecturing over the years.。
So it's good to be back and back in Hong Kong。
and grateful to God that things have made it possible。
these days to do so.。
It is, of course, an honor as well to bring you greetings。
from my home city of London, where I live.。
That's London, England, not Ontario, London, England.。
And from my church, All Souls Church, Langham Place,。
from which the Langham Foundation here in Hong Kong。
gets the name, not from the hotel。
or from any shopping center,。
but from just the place where John Stott's church。
still is, All Souls Church, Langham Place.。
And so that's who I also represent。
and bring you greetings from them.。
And it is, of course, also a great honor。
to be invited to give these lectures,。
the Josephine Soh Lectures.。
And Simon Chung was giving me a little bit of background。
as to who she was and how influential she was。
and as the founder of the Breakthrough Center as well,。
where I've also had the privilege of staying。
several times in past years.。
So here we are then, as Professor Lee said,。
with the title written for us,。
The Old Testament as Christian Scripture.。
And some of you will know that that's my own field,。
is Old Testament studies, and particularly。
in their relevance to Christian ethics and mission.。
So I'm going to be reading my lecture。
because I find that's the best way。
that I can make sure I keep on topic and roughly on time,。
and also so that my very esteemed responders。
won't hear anything different from what they've already read,。
which I'm sure is to their relief.。
So here is our first title,。
The Old Testament and Christian Identity, Who Are We?。
You see, the problem is that it's sadly true these days。
that many Christian believers wonder。
whether the Old Testament is really relevant to themselves.。
Or even if they accept that the Old Testament。
is part of the Bible and they ought to take it seriously,。
they struggle with how it relates。
to what they think of as their Christian faith.。
Is the Old Testament really compatible。
with Christianity, they think?。
Which is not only sad, but also deeply ironic,。
because putting the question that way round。
is the diametric opposite to the problem。
that was faced by the earliest followers of Jesus.。
You see, their question was not,。
as it is for so many today,。
is the Old Testament compatible with Christianity,。
rather they wrestled with the reverse question。
in their faith and their claims,。
namely, is the Christian church that we have formed,。
is it compatible with the scriptures?。
That is to say, they did not judge the scriptures,。
the authoritative word of God that they had。
in what we now call the Old Testament。
in the light of the Christian faith, but the reverse.。
They evaluated their Christian claims。
in the light of what we now call the Old Testament,。
the scriptures that they had.。
And that was especially so in relation。
to this whole new multi-ethnic reality。
of Jews and Gentiles together claiming。
to be the covenant people of God。
without observing Jewish identity criteria。
such as circumcision or Sabbath observance or food laws.。
How could you justify that scripturally, in other words?。
Well, the apostle Paul, as we know,。
devotes the whole of the letter to the Galatians。
and some of the letter to the Romans to that very issue.。
And in these four lectures, I want to follow Paul's example,。
which is a good thing to do, I'm sure,。
as well as the example of Peter。
and indeed of Jesus himself in exploring。
how the Christian faith, that is the faith of the church,。
is deeply rooted and grounded。
in the Old Testament scriptures。
and therefore how our Christian faith,。
that is what we personally believe about ourselves。
and God, needs to be intentionally informed。
by those scriptures, which were our scriptures,。
I want to say, not written to us, of course,。
but certainly, as Paul says, written for us.。
And because the Old Testament is so vast。
and there are so many ways one could tackle this,。
I wanted to take this single theme。
of who are we as the church, as the people of God?。
What is our identity, our mission, our ethics,。
and our hope?。
And in each case of those four things,。
I want us to see that the New Testament itself。
draws profoundly on the scriptures,。
the scriptures of the Old Testament,。
in articulating its answers to those great themes.。
So here then is indeed the first one,。
the Old Testament and Christian identity,。
who are we, we as Christians, as the people of God?。
And I want to answer it in two ways,。
broadly speaking, over these next minutes.。
First of all, to say that we are a people。
who have been formed by God's story,。
and secondly, that we are a people created for God's glory.。
So first of all, a people formed by God's story,。
and secondly, a people created for God's glory.。
We think of both of those.。
So here's the first then,。
we are a people formed by God's story.。
Now, the story of God, of course,。
begins right at the beginning.。
In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth,。
and so this whole universe that we inhabit is,。
we are told, the creation of the one living personal God。
who made it good, created us human beings in his own image。
in order to rule over the earth on his behalf,。
in a sense, as kings within creation in Genesis 1,。
and to serve and to care for the earth,。
as he says to Adam in chapter two.。
So this is indeed the first thing。
we would have to say about ourselves。
if we're asking the question, who are we?。
Well, we are human beings created in the image of God。
and intended to function as God's kings and priests。
within God's creation, ruling and serving on God's behalf.。
That is a role which we'll see once or twice。
as we go through these lectures, kings and priests,。
which we meet again in the case of Israel in Exodus 19,。
and again in the identity of the church。
in 1 Peter chapter two, and eschatologically。
in the book of Revelation at the very end of the Bible。
as the redeemed humanity from all nations。
whom God will have made kings and priests for him.。
So the story of creation, but then, of course,。
as we know with the entrance of sin and evil。
into human life, this all went wrong.。
Everything was fractured, broken, and distorted.。
Why?。
Because we chose, we chose to rebel against our creator,。
to substitute our own moral autonomy for his authority.。
We would choose what it is to be good or evil。
and not depend on God, and so we have brought。
into this world all manner of personal and social sin,。
fear, anger, violence, injustice, oppression, corruption,。
and it's all there.。
It's early in the Bible, it's Genesis four to 11.。
So we exploit, we pollute, we destroy the earth。
that God told us to care for,。
and we fight and kill one another.。
And so that story, that early story of the fall。
comes to its climax in chapter 11 with the Tower of Babel。
where God, in order to prevent humanity。
from frustrating his purposes, which was that we should。
scatter and fill the earth, which was happening。
in Genesis 10, we wanted to stop that。
by this arrogant homolinguistic unity。
of the Tower of Babel.。
God confuses human languages, scatters the nations anyway,。
but scatters them in division and misunderstanding。
of one another.。
So by the end of that part of the Bible story, Genesis 11,。
we find a humanity that is fractured and divided,。
scattered over the face of an earth that has been cursed.。
So is there any hope for humanity?。
But the story continues, doesn't it?。
The great Bible story moves from creation through fall。
to redemption within history,。
leading to its ultimate climax in the new creation.。
And that is a story that takes us。
through the rest of the Bible,。
from Genesis 12 to Revelation 22,。
centered, of course, on the cross。
and the resurrection of Jesus Christ.。
And it will come to its climax when Christ returns。
to reign over the new creation.。
And the great thing about this story。
is that it involves humanity, who we are,。
in this world of nations from beginning to end.。
In Genesis 11, the nations of the world。
are united in arrogance, but then scattered in confusion.。
Whereas in Revelation 7, they will be gathered。
as a great multitude whom no one could count,。
from every nation, tribe, people, and language,。
but they will be gathered in unity。
to worship the Lord who was on the throne,。
the Lamb of God himself.。
And that picture there in Revelation,。
at the end of the Bible, the end of the story,。
is, of course, a portrait of the church.。
It is us, the multinational community。
of God's redeemed humanity.。
And that takes you right back to the promise。
that God first made to Abraham,。
that through him all nations on earth would be blessed.。
So we are the people, then, in that sense,。
who have been created within and for this story,。
this story of God, this story of God's purposes。
for the earth, his creation,。
and for all the nations who live on it.。
That's who we are.。
We are that redeemed people of God within the Bible story.。
But let's look at that in just a little bit more detail。
from two other perspectives, as you can see on the screen,。
that we are also the community, or we learn from,。
the community of Abraham in the book of Genesis,。
where God first talks about bringing blessing。
to all the nations and his descendants.。
And then also from Abraham, of course,。
we are from the community of Israel of the Old Testament.。
What was their story that helps us to understand ours?。
So what, then, can we learn about this community。
from the call of Abraham and those early stories?。
I want to suggest four things,。
as you can see on the screen,。
that we are a community of blessing,。
of faith, obedience, and hope.。
We see all of those four things in the story of Abraham,。
and they also are the marks of the people of Abraham,。
the seed of Abraham, as Paul calls us.。
First of all, a community of blessing.。
Now, blessing was indeed God's first word to creation,。
apart from the word of creation itself.。
You remember there, back in Genesis 1,。
he successfully blesses his own acts of creation.。
And then, after the flood,。
God blesses Noah with a covenant with all life on earth.。
So blessing comes back, in a sense,。
into creation with Noah.。
But then, as you know, the repeated sin and failure。
that goes on in the following chapters。
seems to reinforce what chapter three had said。
about God's curse on the earth.。
Where can blessing be found。
in a world which lies under God's curse?。
Even Noah's own father was worried about that.。
Oh, that God would lift the curse from the earth.。
And so, with Abraham,。
when the language of blessing comes back,。
and God says, "I will bless you,。
"and you will be a blessing,。
"and through you, all nations will be blessed,"。
there is, in a sense, a fresh start there,。
in Genesis chapter 12.。
But the point I want to make here is。
that that blessing is not just a blessing received,。
but a mandate that, through you,。
all nations will be blessed, will come into blessing.。
So here, then, is a community, God's people,。
who both experience the blessing of God。
and are the means of that being passed on to others.。
Blessing received and blessing shared。
is part of the very essence。
of what it means to be the people of God.。
If we are to live within the story that God puts us in,。
then being a people of blessing is part of our identity.。
We could spend the rest of the day。
just talking about what that would mean in practice,。
but I think, in principle, it's very important.。
Then, secondly, a community of faith,。
because we are told, aren't we,。
that Abraham believed God,。
and it was credited to him as righteousness.。
That's what it says in Genesis 15, verse six,。
and, of course, Paul quotes that。
in Galatians, chapter three, verse six.。
When he is showing how we are within Abraham,。
he makes that connection between the faith。
and the righteousness of Abraham.。
Hebrews, of course, also strongly highlights。
Abraham as a man of faith,。
has a lot about Abraham's faith in Hebrews 11,。
"Having earlier said," Hebrews, that is, "about Enoch,。
"that without faith it is impossible to please God."。
So the community, then, that stems from Abraham。
must be a people who will trust the promise of God。
rather than trusting in their own ability。
to build something for their own security,。
which they tried to do at Babel.。
Remember, in chapter 11, there we find a people。
who want to build a tower for themselves, as it were,。
and God says, "Now I will bless you if you will trust me,。
"that through you all nations will be blessed."。
So Abraham, then, as a man of faith,。
as a believer in God's promises,。
is one of the reasons why one of the earliest names。
for Christians, even before they were called Christians,。
is that we are believers.。
We are people of faith.。
We are called to participate in the story of God,。
God's plan for creation, God's plan for humanity.。
It's a story which has a future, a future new creation,。
and when we enter into that story,。
we put our faith in the God of the story。
and say, "I believe that God will accomplish。
"what he will accomplish,"。
because he has already proved it, of course,。
in the cross and resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ.。
So a community of blessing, of faith,。
and thirdly, of obedience.。
It was because of his faith that Abraham obeyed God.。
In fact, Romans stresses that,。
so does Hebrew, so does James in his letter.。
Abraham got up, he left his homeland,。
he went out at God's command,。
and in the supreme test, in Genesis chapter 22,。
he was even prepared to sacrifice his own son,。
the son of the promise, in order to obey God。
until God intervened to stop him.。
And you remember that the way in which Hebrews。
interprets that is that Abraham must have even believed。
that God had the power to raise the dead,。
because if the promise of God was going to be fulfilled。
through Isaac, then somehow Isaac must survive。
in order to have descendants.。
So Abraham was prepared to believe God and to obey God,。
and in fact, God then comments on that。
in Genesis chapter 22, after he has stopped Abraham。
from actually sacrificing his son.。
God says twice at the beginning and the end of that section,。
he says, "Because you have obeyed me,。
"because you have done this,"。
God renews his promise and his oath。
to bring blessing to the nations.。
And so that's why, as I said, in Hebrews 11。
and James chapter two, they set Abraham's obedience。
alongside Abraham's faith as the proof。
of his authentic relationship with God,。
which then both Paul and Hebrews and James。
all emphasize as being fundamental to Christian experience。
and Christian imitation, belief and obey.。
And then fourthly, a community of hope,。
because you see that promise of God to Abraham,。
that through, that he would become a great nation。
and that through his people,。
all nations on earth would experience blessing,。
that remained the foundation for Israel's hope。
for the future all through the succeeding generations。
and centuries, even in times of the most appalling。
unfaithfulness, even in times of God's judgment,。
they knew that God would not, could not abandon his people.。
Or at least he could not do it。
without breaking his covenant with Abraham.。
And he couldn't break his covenant with Abraham。
because that had been sworn on God's own self,。
by myself have I sworn, says the Lord.。
So God was eternally committed by his own existence。
in a sense to keep his promise to Abraham.。
And that promise of course, included not only。
that Israel would be a people。
and therefore they would continue as a people,。
but that through him all nations on earth。
would find blessing.。
And so the hope of Israel, as Paul would put it later,。
is indeed hope for the world.。
That's why Simeon with baby Jesus in his arms。
could say that he was seeing the Lord's salvation,。
not just the glory of his people Israel,。
but a light to lighten the nations.。
The mission of God through Abraham。
generates the mission of God's people。
to the ends of the earth.。
And of course, we think more about that。
in the next lecture later this afternoon,。
when we're thinking about the mission of God's people.。
So to summarize then this part of our lecture,。
the church, when we trace our roots back to God's call。
and promise to Abraham,。
finds here some key identity marks or markers。
that are established right there at the beginning。
of the story in the book of Genesis.。
As the seed of Abraham,。
we are a community that not only experiences。
the blessing of God,。
but are commissioned to be the means of blessing others.。
We are a community that live by faith。
in the promises of God,。
and prove that faith by practical。
and sometimes sacrificial obedience to God.。
And it is a community of hope,。
a hope for the future,。
which is guaranteed because God is sovereign。
and will always keep his word.。
So that's something that we learn。
simply from the book of Genesis,。
and the way it is then applied in the New Testament.。
But I wanted to move on secondly,。
on the screen as you can see,。
to Israel's story,。
the ongoing story of the Old Testament.。
Because if the church as the biblical people of God。
began really with Abraham, as we did,。
then we need to give some attention。
to the rest of that Old Testament part of our story.。
And to look at some of the significant moments。
in that story of Israel,。
and the theological inferences。
that are then drawn from that story and those events。
in terms of the relationship with God,。
and then how they are reflected。
in what the New Testament says。
about the Christian church's existence。
and our mission in the world.。
Now, just at this point as a slightly as an aside,。
but I think a quite an important one.。
I want to be very clear that this is not as。
I'm sometimes accused of a super sessionist argument,。
that is a replacement theology,。
as if to say that the Christian church。
has simply replaced the Jews in the plan of God.。
As some people say, well, God had the Jews up to here,。
got fed up with them, now he's got the Christians.。
That kind of very simplistic super sessionism。
is not what I'm saying.。
Rather, what the New Testament does affirm。
is that that Old Testament, as we call it,。
that scriptural story of Israel。
has found its climax, its life, and its fulfillment。
in the life and death and resurrection of Israel's Messiah,。
Jesus of Nazareth, and that through the Messiah,。
Israel's story, Israel's reality continues, grows,。
is fulfilled in the identity and mission of God。
through this multinational community of people,。
including believing Jews and Gentiles in Christ,。
as Paul puts it in Romans and Galatians.。
In other words, it's not that the church replaces the Jews,。
but that Israel expands to include the Gentiles。
in God's fulfillment, as he always said they would.。
So I just wanted to get that point in。
in order to try to at least clarify。
and defend myself against that accusation.。
So here are, again, just three main points,。
and one at the end of the story of Israel.。
First of all, of course, election.。
The foundation of Israel's faith。
was that God had chosen them as his own people。
through the historic act of calling Abraham。
out of Ur of the Chaldees,。
and then making those remarkable promises。
to Abraham and Sarah.。
So Israel knew that they were not a nation。
who happened to have chosen to worship this particular God,。
but rather this God, Yahweh God,。
had chosen them as a particular people.。
They would not exist on the planet。
apart from God's choice and God's calling。
and God's creation.。
And so two things need to be said immediately about that,。
which also apply to us as their followers.。
First of all, that Israel were not to imagine。
that their election by God, that is God's choice of them,。
owed anything to their greatness,。
numerical or moral superiority.。
Far from it, they are told in the book of Deuteronomy。
several times, they were a tiny nation,。
they were an insignificant people,。
and they were certainly no more righteous。
than other nations.。
No, the roots of their election lay exclusively。
in the love and the grace of God.。
He loved them because he loved them.。
And that's axiomatic, you can't get behind that.。
There's no other reason given among them.。
So it's based on the grace and love of God.。
And secondly, that they had been chosen。
for the sake of the rest of the nations.。
So blessing choosing Abraham and his descendants。
was God's intended means of bringing blessing。
to all the nations that were there。
in Genesis chapter 10 especially.。
So election then means being chosen for that task,。
to be the means by which God will fulfill his mission.。
And what then of the church in the light of this?。
Well, you said Peter to the Christians。
that he was writing to in his letter, 1 Peter,。
you he said, you are that chosen people.。
In other words, he takes that language of the Old Testament。
and he applies it to this multinational community。
of believers in Jesus the Messiah, Jews and Gentiles,。
who are standing then in organic continuity。
with Old Testament Israel as the elect people of God,。
which is the language he uses in his first chapter.。
And so the same two points apply to us。
if we want to think about election as part of our identity。
as the people of God.。
First of all, that it's entirely by God's grace.。
There is nothing at all about us。
that made us worthy of God choosing us.。
It's by God's grace.。
And secondly, that it is fundamentally missional in purpose.。
That's to say our election being chosen by God。
is not so that we would be the only ones。
who would ever enjoy salvation,。
but that we would be the means。
by which God will bring salvation to others,。
which is what Peter goes on to emphasize。
immediately after that in chapter two,。
that we're to live such godly lives among the nations。
that they will see something of the glory of God。
and come to praise our God.。
So the church then exists in the world。
just as Israel did in the Old Testament。
as a community that God has chosen and called。
in order to serve God's mission。
of bringing the nations of the world ultimately。
from their condition in Genesis four to 11。
in rebellion against God。
to that portrayed in Revelation seven。
as a community of nations in worship and praise。
of the God as their redeemer.。
And we'll talk a bit more about that in the next lecture.。
So that's election.。
Secondly, redemption is a word that is used,。
first of all, in the Old Testament about Israel.。
They were a people whom God had redeemed.。
And the language of redemption, of course,。
goes back to the Exodus, doesn't it?。
To that great historical deliverance。
of their ancestors from slavery in Egypt.。
And they saw that Exodus as proof of God's love。
and God's justice and God's power and greatness.。
That's why they could sing about it。
and celebrate it as they did in Exodus 15,。
but also, of course, in many of the Psalms.。
And so there's a huge range of vocabulary。
of words and concepts that are linked to the Exodus.。
Redemption, salvation, mighty acts, justice, and so on.。
And then, of course, it leads through。
into the law and the covenant and the worship。
that they had in the book of Psalms and elsewhere.。
And this memory of the Exodus was kept alive。
through the annual Passover salvation。
because Israel was a people who remembered。
and renewed and refreshed their historical memory。
year after year after year.。
They knew their God, Yahweh, above all。
as their saving redeemer God.。
That's the language of Exodus.。
Now, when we come to the New Testament,。
of course, it's very clear that the New Testament。
sees the cross of Christ through the lens of the Exodus.。
In fact, on the Mount of Transfiguration,。
we read, Luke tells us in Luke 9, verse 31,。
that when the disciples saw Jesus in his glory。
on the Mount of Transfiguration。
conversing with Moses and Elijah,。
and what they were talking about was, says Luke,。
the Exodus that Jesus was going to accomplish in Jerusalem.。
It's usually translated as his departure,。
which is a sort of airport term,。
which is not really the way in which we usually speak。
about our death, and we don't usually speak。
about our death as something we accomplish.。
Did you accomplish dying?。
No, no, you just die.。
But these are discussing the Exodus。
that Jesus would accomplish in Jerusalem,。
speaking, of course, of the cross.。
Because it was at the cross, wasn't it,。
that God achieved, accomplished the redemption of the world,。
defeated the force of evil, liberated his people.。
And so we as Christians, we look back to Calvary。
and to the cross, and through the cross,。
back with Israel to the Exodus.。
Because as Paul puts it, Christ, our Passover lamb,。
has been sacrificed for us, and therefore,。
we have had our Exodus experience when God brought us,。
as Peter would say, out of darkness。
into his marvelous light.。
So we too are a people who have experienced。
the redeeming, delivering power of God through the cross.。
That means that we too, like Israel,。
are a people of memory and of hope.。
We look back and we look forward.。
And we do both also through a meal, the Passover meal having,。
in a sense, been absorbed into the Eucharist, the Lord's。
Supper, which was significantly instituted in the Passover meal。
immediately before Jesus died on the cross.。
So again, we see that the church stands。
in this organic, spiritual, theological continuity。
with God's people, Israel, in the Old Testament.。
So election, redemption, and then thirdly, covenant.。
This is another, of course, dominant concept。
in Israel's theology, this covenant relationship with God.。
Goes back originally to Abraham, where。
it involves a combination of promise and response.。
There's a promise and a commitment made by God.。
God says, this is what I'm going to do.。
And then there's a required response for Abraham,。
walk before me in obedience, trust and obey.。
God promised Abraham, and Abraham's response。
is faith and obedience.。
That's the essence of the covenant.。
And then, of course, shortly after that in the Bible,。
you get to the book of Exodus.。
You arrive at Mount Sinai with the Israelites。
after they've been redeemed out of Egypt.。
And the covenant-making ceremony takes place there。
in Exodus chapters 19 to 24.。
And within that context, God makes known his personal name,。
Yahweh, the name which is then associated forever。
after with the Exodus and with God's saving power.。
God redeems his name, his character, his law.。
His covenant is made with Israel.。
He's committed to them in salvation and protection。
and blessing.。
And he calls them to be committed to him。
in covenantal obedience and worship exclusively of God,。
Yahweh God alone.。
And so the law of Israel, which then follows in Exodus。
and then also, of course, in Leviticus and Deuteronomy,。
the gift of God's law comes in that context.。
This is so important to grasp this,。
that God gives his law to people whom he has already redeemed.。
The covenant is made on the basis of the grace。
and the redemption of God.。
And we'll think a bit more about that in the third lecture。
when we're looking at the ethics of Israel.。
So here again, we find just as with election。
and with redemption, we find this organic theological。
continuity because the church is the people。
of the new covenant, which is foretold in the Old Testament。
explicitly by Jeremiah, but referred to in other ways。
by other prophets.。
And the new covenant is inaugurated quite explicitly。
by Jesus Christ just before his death.。
In fact, in the context of his death.。
And those words of Jesus at the Last Supper。
where he uses the words which we use again and again。
in the Lord's Supper or the Holy Communion。
echo these Old Testament texts.。
Jesus says, "This is the blood of the covenant,"。
which echoes Exodus 24.。
He said, "Which has been poured out for many,"。
which is an echo of Isaiah 53.。
"For the forgiveness of sins,"。
which is an echo of Jeremiah 31.。
So in so many ways, the deepest moment。
of our Christian identity in the Holy Communion。
is saturated with words and language。
which come from the Old Testament itself.。
So here we are then, we are a community。
of experience of God's election and God's redemption。
and God's covenant united to the Lord Jesus Christ。
through faith in his blood.。
But the last word on that page,。
these were the great foundational truths of Israel.。
These were the great, in a sense, historical realities。
of their existence and their theology.。
But we know that they struggled with all of these。
as a human nation in the midst of a world of nations。
all just as fallen and sinful as one another.。
Indeed, the prophets tell Israel。
that they become even more wicked。
than the surrounding nations.。
And so the Old Testament records honestly and painfully。
and surprisingly, given that this is。
the national literature of the nation,。
the Old Testament records Israel's failures。
alongside the affirmations of their faith。
and their aspirations.。
This is who they knew they were and what they wanted to be,。
but this is how they actually failed.。
They sinned, they suffered, they fail internally,。
they are attacked externally.。
And their whole history of Israel,。
as we know in the Old Testament,。
is just one long catalog of struggle。
between those who brought the word of God to them,。
taught them what they needed to believe,。
the prophets, the psalmists, Moses, and so on,。
and those who at street level, as we might say,。
were determined to resist the will of God。
and the ways of God.。
And yet, of course, the apostle Paul。
discerns and realizes this enormous paradox。
that it was through that failure of Israel,。
even to the point of rejecting their own Messiah。
and putting him to death,。
which in God's foreknowledge and God's sovereignty。
would be the means by which God would bring redemption,。
not only to the Jews, the Israelites,。
who would believe in Christ and accepted him。
as Messiah, but also to those from any nation。
and every nation, the Gentiles,。
who would come through faith in Jesus。
into the blessing of Abraham, as he explained.。
So there then, in all those ways,。
to get this sort of, so it's more than halfway through,。
this first part, that we are a people。
who stand in organic continuity,。
I've used that word several times,。
with Old Testament reason, with Old Testament Israel,。
because, in a sense, we share the same story.。
The people of God, we are the people。
who are chosen and called by God。
for his purpose of blessing the nations.。
We are also, like them, people who have experienced。
the redeeming grace and power of God in history,。
for them through the Exodus, ultimately, of course,。
for all people through Christ on the cross.。
We are people who stand in a committed,。
covenant relationship with God。
through the Lord Jesus Christ,。
enjoying the security of his promises。
and responding with exclusive loyalty and obedience.。
We are a people who have been set apart by him。
to live in distinct, holy ways in the world,。
as we'll think about later.。
And we are a people who, like them,。
show this, as it were, this tension。
between knowing the God we worship。
and wanting to live for him,。
and yet struggling with all the ambiguities。
and pain and struggle of historical life on this planet,。
in which nothing is perfect, especially ourselves,。
that we also struggle.。
So in all these ways, it seems,。
the church stands in continuity with Israel,。
the same promise, the same inheritance,。
the same ultimate gospel.。
Their story is our story.。
It's one story, the story of God.。
That leads to the second big area。
that I wanted to bring to us,。
not only a people formed by God's story,。
but a people created for God's glory.。
Now that phrase itself, of course,。
comes from the Old Testament,。
from what God says through Isaiah.。
This is Isaiah 43, verses six and seven.。
"Bring my sons from afar and my daughters。
"from the ends of the earth,。
"everyone who is called by my name,。
"whom I created for my glory,。
"whom I formed and made," says God.。
"My people, my chosen, the people I formed for myself,。
"that they may proclaim my praise,。
"created for my glory, created to proclaim my praise."。
That's the language of Isaiah.。
Now, Jeremiah provides an interesting metaphor。
for this particular purpose of God。
in creating his people, to create somebody。
that would be glorifying and praising to him.。
It comes in Jeremiah chapter 13.。
It's a kind of acted prophecy, one of several.。
You remember, well, I don't know if you remember it,。
but I'll tell you anyway.。
In Jeremiah chapter 13, God tells Jeremiah。
to go and buy a brand new linen waistband.。
Our Bibles often say just belt,。
but it's more than just a belt.。
It would be a whole band around his waist。
of lovely, bright, clean, white linen,。
such as the priests would wear.。
And so he wears this for a while around Jerusalem.。
Imagine people, "Oh, nice, nice, nice clothes, Jeremiah.。
"Very, very smart," you know, that they'd be saying to him.。
But then God tells him to go and bury it in some wet soil.。
It says by the river Euphrates.。
He won't be going quite that far,。
but he buries it for a long time.。
So then he goes back to get it, to retrieve it,。
and it's become rotten and unwearable.。
It's falling apart.。
It's full of mud and worms and all of that。
being in the soil.。
And so that's the way God says it's like。
for him with Israel.。
And I now quote Jeremiah 13.。
"For as a belt is wound around the waist。
"so I, God, I bound all the people of Israel。
"and all the people of Judah to me, says the Lord,。
"to be my people for my renown and my praise and my honor."。
See, God says, "I created Israel so that I could look good."。
God wanted his people, as it were,。
to be something that would be commendable to the wearer.。
You know, when I say to my wife,。
"What a really lovely dress you're wearing, my dear,"。
I don't often say that, but you know,。
if I were to say that to her,。
"It's a lovely dress you're wearing,"。
my compliment is for her, not really the dress,。
I'm saying, "You look good dressed like that.。
"It makes you look beautiful, that dress."。
And that, in a sense, is what God is saying here。
about Israel.。
He wanted Israel to make the God they worship。
look good in the eyes of the nations,。
that when people would look at Israel,。
they'd say, "Who's their God?"。
You see what I'm saying?。
So that's God's intention,。
that the quality of Israel's life。
would display something of the glory of their God。
and bring him praise among the nations.。
But the tragedy was, of course,。
that the rottenness of their sinful, rebellious society。
meant that they were nothing but an embarrassment to God,。
a disgrace, like a rotten garment would be to its wearer.。
You know, Yahweh couldn't be seen wearing those people,。
couldn't go out looking like that,。
is the intention of the metaphor.。
So God's people are created for God's glory.。
Now, I just wanted to then use that idea。
to pick up three or four of the pictures。
that are used for Israel in the Old Testament,。
each of which has a New Testament equivalent,。
which is also picked up in the New Testament.。
In fact, there is only one metaphor for the church。
in the New Testament, which is unique to the New Testament,。
and indeed, unique to the apostle Paul himself,。
and that is when Paul describes the church。
as the body of Christ.。
It's a very familiar one, it comes from Paul,。
but it's the only picture of the church。
in the New Testament which doesn't have。
Old Testament roots.。
In the Old Testament, there are many metaphors for Israel,。
and here are just a few.。
First of all, God's people.。
We may just have time for three, we'll see how we go.。
First of all, God's people.。
It's not really a metaphor, but it is interesting。
that they describe themselves as an am, a people,。
rather than the word used for the nations,。
which is goi, or goyim, the plural of the nations.。
In Exodus 19, verse six, God says that Israel。
will be a goi kadosh, a holy nation,。
meaning, yes, you will be a nation, like the other nations,。
but you will be a nation distinctive,。
set apart from the other nations.。
You will be my am, my people.。
Now, Israel, as you know, had an ethnic core,。
the 12 tribes of the sons of Jacob,。
but in reality, historical reality,。
Israel is a very mixed community.。
Exodus tells us that there were multitudes of people。
of other tribes who came out with the Hebrews。
when they left Egypt, so from the very start,。
they were a mixed community,。
and then in the book of Joshua,。
we get other people who joined them,。
and Leviticus and Deuteronomy speak repeatedly。
of the foreigners who were living among them.。
So what held Israel together was not so much。
that they were a single ethnicity。
as that they were the covenantly loyal people。
of this one God.。
They are the people of Yahweh, Yahweh's people.。
They bear his name, and indeed, they are commanded。
in the third commandment,。
do not bear the name of the Lord in vain,。
which doesn't mean stop swearing.。
It means don't be a disgrace to the God。
whose name you bear.。
I think that's what the passage means.。
And so, indeed, that was a problem to God。
when he scattered the Israelites in exile。
was, as Ezekiel puts it,。
that they were profaning the name of Yahweh.。
That is, they were making Yahweh the God of Israel。
looking no better than the defeated gods。
of the other nations.。
They were making the name Yahweh just common,。
ordinary, profaning it, not cursing and swearing,。
but just making Yahweh no different from the other gods.。
And so Yahweh, God says, I'm going to restore my people。
for the sake of my name, my reputation among the nations.。
But that title, people of Yahweh,。
the people of God, could be expanded.。
And this is the amazing thing that in the Old Testament,。
as we see a little bit more later on today,。
that the Old Testament envisages people from other nations。
coming to be included within the people of Yahweh.。
So Isaiah chapter 19 can say that even Egypt。
will be called my people, Egypt,。
and even Assyria, my inheritance,。
and Israel, my handiwork.。
The other nations become included.。
Psalm 87 says that this one and that one,。
and then it lists a number of nations around,。
will be born in Zion.。
They will be enfranchised as citizens of Zion.。
Many nations will come and join Zion,。
says God in Zechariah 2.。
And so that Old Testament inclusion of other nations。
within, quote, "the people of Yahweh,"。
or the people of Zion, is exactly what the New Testament。
says was beginning to happen through the Gentile mission。
of the church, that others were coming。
to become part of that people.。
So in that sense, then, the church, we as the people,。
who are we?。
We are a people.。
But in this sense, we are the people,。
the people of this God, the God of the scriptures,。
the God of biblical faith, a multinational people,。
not defined by ethnicity, not defined。
by whether you're Jew or Gentile, male or female,。
slave or free.。
But you, says Peter, again, that plural you,。
quoting both Exodus and Hosea, you。
are a people belonging to God.。
Once you were not a people, but now you。
are the people of God, a worldwide community of peoples。
fulfilling God's promise to Abraham.。
So even that word itself is quite a remarkable biblical。
term.。
And then secondly, we are God's household or family.。
Now, we know that in the Old Testament,。
Israel was structured around a network of kinship.。
There were the tribes, the largest unit.。
And then within the tribes, there were clans,。
the mishpachoth.。
And then within the clans, there were the households.。
The basic unit was, quote, "the father's house."。
That's the term that's used throughout the Old Testament.。
It was a kind of extended family,。
more like, in many ways, Asian families still。
are today than my own experience of Western nuclear families.。
Israel's families would have been three or four generations。
from the head of the family.。
It would include sons and their wives and their children,。
their servants, their agricultural workers,。
and even some of the resident foreigners practicing。
their trade among them.。
So it was a robust, large community, the household,。
the father's house.。
And it was a place in which the individual Israelite。
would find personal identity, because your name in Israel。
was virtually an address.。
You were the so-and-so, the son of X, the son of Y,。
the son of Z. And you would go through your personal name,。
your father's name, the name--。
that's your biological father--。
then the name of the head of the house,。
who might by now be dead, and then the clan name,。
and then the tribe name.。
That was your full name.。
It gave you identity.。
It also, therefore, created inclusion.。
You knew who you belonged to.。
It was a place of security, because if you。
belonged in an Israelite family, then you。
had a place on the land.。
That's why the genealogies were so important.。
When they returned to the land, you。
had security, a share in Israel's inheritance.。
And of course, it was a place of nurture and teaching,。
because it was where you learned the faith from your fathers,。
who would be teaching them, from the way in which the law was。
observed, and from the annual Passover, and so on.。
So to call Israel the household of Yahweh,。
the house of Israel, was a very significantly rich term.。
It meant that you were identified, included, secure,。
and nurtured within that faith.。
So it's not surprising, then, that Christians。
adopted very similar language to speak of the church.。
Paul calls the church in Timothy the household of God.。
We are his house, says Hebrews, chapter 3, verse 6.。
This was probably made easier by the fact。
that in the early days, of course,。
these Christians would have met in homes, initially,。
especially when it moved out into the Roman Empire.。
So this sense, then, of these little Christian communities。
being an extended family together。
must have been very strong.。
But it was strong in a countercultural way,。
because these communities of believers。
included men and women meeting together, parents and children。
in the same room, slaves and their owners in the same room,。
listening to the letters of Paul being read out.。
So here were countercultural households。
of faith in which individuals would have their identity.。
I'm now a man or a woman in Christ, even if I'm a slave.。
They would be given a sense of inclusion。
within this fellowship of sisters and brothers,。
as they would call one another, even if by faith in Christ。
they had been excluded from their earthly family.。
And they were given security, because as Peter says,。
now you have an inheritance, greater even the land,。
an inheritance that cannot spoil or fade,。
because it's an eternal inheritance, as the land was.。
And of course, it was the place of nurture and teaching。
in the scriptures, teaching and admonishing one another.。
So these household communities of the Church--。
and that word for the Church had deep social, spiritual,。
and theological roots in the Old Testament.。
So for those who might have been severed。
from their natural families and households。
because of their loyalty to Christ,。
the Church becomes a new household, a new family.。
And then thirdly, God's dwelling place.。
Going back, right back again to the Exodus,。
we all know that the Exodus was a great act of liberation.。
It gave Israel freedom from slavery and oppression。
in Egypt.。
But according to the book of Exodus,。
that was not the final goal.。
It wasn't as if God says, OK, I brought you out of Egypt.。
There you are.。
Go on.。
Be free.。
I'll see you in heaven when you die, or anything like that.。
No, God says, I brought you out of Egypt。
in order to bring you to myself here at Sinai.。
And then what God says to Moses, tell you what,。
when you go back down from Mount Sinai,。
I want you to build me a tent, just a tent.。
God said, I want to go camping with my people.。
I want to dwell among them.。
I want to be in the midst of my people.。
It's quite remarkable, really.。
It's very incarnational there, actually,。
in the book of Exodus.。
And here in Exodus 29, verses 44 to 45, Exodus 29, 40, 45,。
God says this.。
I will consecrate the tent of meeting, and the altar,。
and so on.。
And then I will dwell among the Israelites and be their God.。
And they will know that I am the Lord their God, who。
brought them out of Egypt so that I might dwell among them.。
I am the Lord their God.。
God says, the very reason I brought Israel out of Egypt,。
because I want to live among them.。
I want to dwell among my people.。
So the people of God, therefore, in the Old Testament,。
are to be the dwelling place of God.。
It's as if they're going to be his home address on Earth,。
so to speak.。
And this is so important.。
Moses recognized how important it。
was that he couldn't even envisage the people of Israel。
moving on from Mount Sinai unless God would be with them。
in that sense, actually dwelling among them.。
Wasn't content with an angel.。
Had to be God in their midst.。
Now, later on, of course, the tabernacle。
was replaced by the temple.。
And like the tabernacle, it has this double significance.。
It's a dwelling place for God, not in the sense。
that he would live in that little house,。
but that that temple house would represent, as it were,。
the focal point of the God who is dwelling among his people.。
He was living among them, walking among them.。
And secondly, it would be the place where。
they would meet with God.。
So those two words are used in the temple, a dwelling place。
and a meeting place.。
It's where God dwells, and it's where you meet with him。
and where you go in songs of pilgrimage and so on.。
Now, when you come to the New Testament, of course,。
you find that Jesus, as the Lord's anointed Messiah,。
has significant impact on that physical temple.。
In fact, it's very destructive.。
Jesus says the temple would be torn down。
because Jesus himself now becomes the person, no longer。
just the place, of God's presence on Earth.。
That's why John puts it, isn't it, that the word became。
flesh and tabernacled among us.。
God came to dwell no longer in a temple or a tent or a temple,。
but God dwells in the person of Jesus, the incarnate Jesus.。
God becomes flesh.。
And then also, of course, it's through Jesus。
that people must come to meet with God in worship.。
As Jesus says to the woman at the well in John chapter 4,。
that we must worship him in spirit and truth。
because he has now come as the Messiah.。
And as Hebrews will later put it in Hebrews chapter 12,。
we who are believers in Jesus have already。
come to Mount Zion, to the temple.。
Not in that sense to the old Mount Zion, he says,。
but to the one that is there through the Lord Jesus Christ.。
So we are that temple because Paul。
uses this temple language of a dwelling place。
language in three different ways.。
First, he says individually that individual Christians。
are the temple of the Holy Spirit, 1 Corinthians chapter。
6.。
So we don't abuse our bodies with sexual immorality。
because our bodies are, in that sense,。
the dwelling place of God.。
He indwells us as his temple.。
But secondly, he speaks of the local church.。
In 1 Corinthians chapter 3, he says,。
you, meaning you Christians in Corinth,。
as a local body of believers, you are God's temple.。
And therefore, he warns them not to take part。
in things that were happening in pagan temples。
because we are the temple of the living God.。
And then he uses it also in the sense of the universal church.。
In Ephesians chapter 2, addressing all Gentile。
believers, he says that they have now。
been united, Jews and Gentiles together,。
to become built together, he says, into a living temple。
for God to indwell by his spirit.。
So that the temple imagery of the Old Testament。
is there used to describe not just a church, but indeed。
the one whole church on earth, the church of the living God。
with his one dwelling place through his one spirit.。
But it's one dwelling place for people of all nations.。
Now, I'll not go on to talk about priesthood, I think,。
because I'll refer to that in the next lecture a bit.。
It's used there of the people of God, the people of Israel。
as God's priesthood.。
It's also used of ourselves by Peter.。
And of course, we could add others.。
I need to draw to a close.。
But there are many other metaphors。
that the Old Testament uses for Israel, which are then picked。
up in the New Testament church.。
There is the picture of a vine--。
Jesus used that-- of an olive tree--。
Paul uses that-- of a bride--。
comes all over the place--。
and indeed, of a flock of sheep with God as the shepherd.。
And all of these ways of thinking about the people of God。
are distinctive in the Old Testament,。
but they feed through into the New.。
So I hope that for now, at least,。
I've said enough to show that if we。
are going to answer this question of Christian identity,。
who are we, we simply can't do without the rich theological,。
historical truths of the faith and the scriptures of Israel。
in our Old Testament.。
Thank you.。
[APPLAUSE]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
(gentle music)。
