(Music)。
>> Good morning. Welcome, everyone.。
Michael Chu here.。
It's great to have so many people, hundreds of people here。
in our lecture.。
I'm very happy to be here with you all.。
I'm Michael Chu, the president of the。
American Society of Black and Asian。
people, and this morning we continue to host our Josephine。
So lecture week, and today is the third lecture.。
It's a great honor to have Dr.。
Mark Leperton to be our keynote speaker.。
Dr. Leperton has spoken to us on the。
overall title, the crisis of American white evangelicalism.。
And I'm very impressed by the way he。
has been able to provide us with a。
very deep and deep insight, and Mark。
walks us through the American history。
and outline the specific perspective on。
the American culture, and Mark also。
highlights the certain deficiency of。
evangelism or even the deficiency of。
the American culture, and I'm very impressed by his work.。
And I'm very impressed by Mark's。
honesty and courage in the path of self-critique.。
Mark, if you don't mind, I would like to。
address you by your first name, because I。
feel after these two lectures, I feel so close to you.。
We are just like good old friends.。
So, I would like to ask you to share your。
perspective on the American culture.。
And then, I would like to ask you to。
share your perspective on the American culture.。
And then, I would like to ask you to share your perspective on。
the American culture.。
And then, I would like to ask you to share your perspective on。
the American culture.。
And then, I would like to ask you to share your perspective on。
the American culture.。
And I would like to ask you to share your perspective on the。
American culture.。
And I would like to ask you to share your perspective on the。
American culture.。
And I would like to ask you to share your perspective on the。
American culture.。
And I would like to ask you to share your perspective on the。
American culture.。
And I would like to ask you to share your perspective on the。
American culture.。
And I would like to ask you to share your perspective on the。
American culture.。
And I would like to ask you to share your perspective on the。
American culture.。
And I would like to ask you to share your perspective on the。
American culture.。
And I would like to ask you to share your perspective on the。
American culture.。
And I would like to ask you to share your perspective on the。
American culture.。
And I would like to ask you to share your perspective on the。
American culture.。
And I would like to ask you to share your perspective on the。
American culture.。
And I would like to ask you to share your perspective on the。
American culture.。
And I would like to ask you to share your perspective on the。
American culture.。
You are the one who sees us as we are.。
You understand the places in which we see clearly.。
And you understand the places in which our sight and knowledge。
are so confused.。
This day in the United States is a very dark day.。
It's a day in which we acknowledge some painful。
realities about our national life.。
Your church is implicated in both some of the causes of why。
the problems exist.。
And also, we pray by your grace, a church that might be able to。
be used by you for the renewal of the church and the renewal of。
a nation.。
Tonight as we pray here and in the morning as people pray。
throughout Asia, in Hong Kong in particular, we acknowledge that。
we are a church that is not only a church that is a church that。
We acknowledge that it's your Lordship, your power, your leadership that we need, far above。
and beyond any human agency.。
So in humility, O God, we turn to these issues tonight, acknowledging how much we need You。
to speak, to guide, to confront, to transform us.。
In the name of Jesus Christ, who reigns with humility and power, in Jesus' name, amen.。
So we come tonight to consider evangelical complexities about power and leadership.。
We will reflect on issues of evangelical power that underline, crown, and even subvert its。
gospel and its witness.。
The history of the church has typically been told as the story of so-called big men, that。
is, a man usually, if not almost always, through the power of personality, gifts, opportunity,。
stealth, privilege of birth, and influence, to have written the story of the world.。
And I dare say this is true in the East or the West, it's true in the South and the North,。
whether the past or the present.。
We seem to be in a time of exceptional global power disorder and redefinition.。
Every continent has evidences of the turmoil that's going on inside the United States.。
It is not a time of world war, and yet in so many directions, we see national and international。
collision, aggression, and hostility.。
Battles of war, including within and among evangelical Christians, are clearly afoot.。
All of this is, of course, in dramatic contrast to the description of Jesus that we see in。
Paul's letter to the Philippians, chapter 2, verses 1 through 8.。
Hear these words again.。
Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus.。
Though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped,。
but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men.。
And being found in human form, he humbled himself by taking the form of a servant and。
being born in the likeness of men.。
And being found in human form, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of。
death, even death on a cross.。
Jesus as the ultimate "big man" lays down the assumptions and prerogatives of power。
to live and lead in vulnerability and in weakness.。
Nevertheless, the "big man" assumptions occupy a very significant place in the life of the。
American evangelical church.。
From the 18th to the 20th century, to this day in the 21st, we can point to the quiet,。
prayerful, faithful, often exemplary lives of members of the white evangelical church。
in the U.S. and see many true signs of the fruit of the Spirit.。
Albeit this can now only be said if we acknowledge that this positive legacy is often still intertwined。
with the subtle and horrific compromises and the absence of self-criticism or repentance。
or lament and transformation that could have occurred.。
It's often a story of hidden piety, inward piety, rather than public piety matched with。
justice.。
Susceptible as human beings are to seek a savior and a hero, it has been an easy assumption。
that God will raise up the leader in a U.S. context that should be understood primarily,。
typically as being white and male, to be a leader, pastor, and authoritative visionary。
voice.。
This archetype is so pervasive and influential it's assumed rather than examined.。
This is necessarily accompanied by an image of a blonde, blue-eyed Jesus who serves the。
dominant interests of an evangelicalism that insists on seeing its image of Jesus, seeing。
in its image of Jesus itself, rather than letting Jesus see his image in us.。
On the other hand, it can be acknowledged with gratitude that the evangelical movement。
in the 20th century, with all of its blessings and sins, perhaps ironically and unselfconsciously,。
both contributed to and resisted the geographic repositioning of the center of the global。
Christian movement from being a story centered in the global north to one that's now clearly。
centered in the global south and in Asia.。
This is a cause for rejoicing and for prominence that is primarily about the Spirit of God。
meeting the people of God.。
This is really the story of God calling, forming, and using leaders around the world for such。
transformative change, not least throughout Asia.。
During the last quarter of the 20th century in America and elsewhere, we saw the rise。
of the megachurch phenomenon that has risen and also fallen because of the influence of。
the big man paradigm, a story of largely unidirectional, typically white male power in the United States.。
This means the need to acknowledge as such as part of the observations of the 20th and。
21st century white evangelicalism still operates largely in a colonialist framework, both in。
the US and globally.。
Several factors explain this.。
First is dominion, the theme of dominion.。
The specifically Christian theme of dominion has been one that has been informed, motivated,。
shaped, and subverted by our sense of the mission of God, the missio Dei.。
The sense of the mission of God in the world as an embodied and proclaimed announcement。
that the reign of God is at hand for the sake of all people and places, a bringing to consummation。
of all things by our Creator, Redeemer, and Remaker.。
This exercise of divine dominion is for the sake of bringing to an end the groaning of。
all humanity and of Jesus and of the Spirit and of the people of God and of the whole。
created order for the sake of God's shalom and the well-being of love and mercy and justice,。
harmony.。
The so-called doctrine of discovery, which came into existence in 1493, was the act of。
Pope Alexander VI and played a highly influential role in justifying and shaping the Spanish。
conquest and the colonial project from that point on.。
The papal bull that the Pope put out gave permission and power to discoverers, as they。
were called, of any land that was not inhabited by Christians, and that if they discovered。
such a land uninhabited by Christians, then it was considered to be available to be "discovered,"。
claimed and exploited by Christian rulers and declared that the Catholic faith and the。
Christian religion be exalted and be everywhere increased and spread, that the health of souls。
be cared for and that barbarous nations be overthrown and brought to the faith itself.。
This doctrine of discovery justified all European claims in the Americas and the premise justifying。
the Western expansion of the United States.。
A book that I would commend to you is a book written by Mark Charles and Sun Chan-ra entitled。
Unsettling Truths, which explores this in much more detail.。
Many other books likewise have been written about it.。
This aligns with what had been seen in the Roman Empire, Constantine's influence, medieval。
expansionism and war.。
Yet through the doctrine of discovery, the church is itself the initiator in the further。
coalescence of church and government collusion to use power in the name of faith for the。
sake of political, economic and religious ends.。
It is the full fruit of what had long been operational, and it was unleashed in what。
continues in less obtrusive ways to the dominion mindset of some American white evangelicals。
to this day.。
The ferocity of the division in the US evangelical church, even today, is in many ways unlocked。
by the doctrine of discovery.。
If you believe, as many do, that the ideological, political and religious battles going on among。
white evangelical voices in the US has little to do with theology, it has more to do with。
power.。
And its roots for how that power expresses itself would be evident in the doctrine of。
discovery.。
The assumption is that these battles are an extension of the doctrine of discovery.。
That is, they now go on like an ever playing fugue line in music that undergirds and reassures。
many that this white normativity is the right track.。
It is a form of aggressive nostalgia that longs for an earlier, more racially homogeneous,。
less racially diverse, more unquestionably defined and controlled white normativity that。
dominates other so-called intrusive voices.。
I accept Dr. Willie Jennings' argument that being "white" is not strictly about the melatonin。
level of one's skin, but about a heart and mindset that can take captive any person of。
any race.。
Whiteness holds power and the claims and rights of power simply as an expression of the way。
reality has established it.。
This at least is the blindness of whiteness, the presumption and normativity that is so。
damaging to white people and even more to those who are its victims.。
Whiteness is the personalized and social form of the doctrine of discovery, holding internally。
the assumption and assertion that the individual can claim in relationship to others, attitudes。
of conquest, superiority and dominance, whether it is about owning a gun, wearing a face mask,。
participating in inter-public worship service or anything else.。
I hope all of these themes are ones that you've seen and given evidence to in the American。
press.。
Dominion, then, is our first major problem.。
The second problem that's related to it is the notion of American exceptionalism.。
This as you know has a long tail in the narrative of U.S. history.。
It starts with the writing of a French man of letters, Alexis de Tocqueville, who described。
the United States as "exceptional," as a "new country," and in the convergence of a kind。
of mindset and instincts that would allow it to hold unique power and influence in North。
America and eventually the world.。
One of the deepest assumptions in nationalism is that American nationalism is not only best。
for it, but also best for the world that it wants to influence.。
It is endlessly self-admiring and adulating, and it is full of the idolatry of a nation。
over any and all other forces, especially outside forces.。
In this model, the phrase "America first" has periodically emerged as the battle cry。
in relationship to other nations, while the internal dangers and enemies of powers must。
be limited and opposed as well.。
All this has been an intense resurgent in recent years in the United States, certainly。
since the 1980s, growing in the 1990s, and very powerfully present throughout the 2000s。
to date, and it's attached to the Dominion vision that, like Napoleon, simply crowns。
itself emperor.。
America has done that in so many painful and inappropriate and unjust ways.。
When the church adds to it the elements of manifest destiny, that this exceptionalism,。
this nationalism, is like America being a new Israel, and in relation to which this。
nation is first and primary in God's and in the church's priorities, it is an extremely。
dangerous collection of idolatries, precisely and passionately held up as the only true。
national worship.。
This creates a perfect closed circle, dressed up in Christian speech, which avoids Christian。
identity and character in matters that are both public, such as the equality of diversity,。
peace with justice, structural and personal racism, and in private, such as which voices。
are heard, which lives and needs are seen, which narratives or stories are actually believed.。
So Dominion, nationalism, and third is individualism.。
White evangelicals in the United States seamlessly pair the doctrine of discovery with deep-seated。
autonomous individualism.。
That is, the individual autonomous self gets to walk through the world like nations did。
under the doctrine of discovery and make claim on peoples and places, jobs, voices, power,。
influence, and so forth.。
It's a tragic story.。
It's one of America's best and worst traits.。
The best side of this kind of individualism is the way in which it can be attached to。
a sense that individual independent rights are a reflection of being made in the image。
of God.。
They are the center in personal, political, structural, familial, social, and religious。
life in the United States.。
It must be the individual.。
Unlike Ubuntu in Africa, "I am because we are," the American slogan is more nearly,。
"I am because I make myself."。
This means that power is finally personal and that the community, whether in church。
or society at large, are always in third place behind family and tribe.。
In the end, the culture in which American evangelical lives and often thrives is on。
the grounds that each person and their own will and personality and priorities and values。
should be placed at the center of everything.。
So much of America's ethical and moral history, even to this day, around issues of human sexuality。
and many other things are all reflections of this doctrine of discovery-oriented, racially。
biased, individual-pleasing form of Christian life that plays into a consumerism that's。
measured by the satisfaction of church members and not by wisdom or by faithfulness.。
This kind of distorted ecology of faith and mind, heart and will, to call Jesus "Lord,。
Lord," but completely separated from actually doing the will of God, the inward private。
conversion of a disciple or the response to the altar call to getting saved, is an especially。
white evangelicalism.。
The Bible is, of course, clear about the value of the individual and the need for each of。
us in the body of Christ to seek and find God.。
But the weight of the scriptures rests on the calling of a people, not just an individual,。
to be God's own people.。
And for the call of the ecclesia, that is the called-out community, to be communally。
called out into one new humanity is a sign that we, collectively, not just I, who once。
was dead, have not just been revived, but have actually been made new as evidence through。
our living into a new community of unlike.。
The immigrant escape from Europe and many other countries since has infused in the evangelical。
movement in the United States the preference for finding and maintaining your tribe.。
A tribe can, at times, be a melting pot, but that is not the common experience of many.。
Instead, we are a collection of social, racial, and economic tribes, with the white evangelical。
tribe presupposing itself to be always in the lead, the communion that crowns the communion.。
That is really the way that it's often organized.。
I will confess that for me, personally, one of the most painful parts of the history and。
influence of Fuller Seminary is the church growth movement.。
In a well-researched and motivated beginning, Donald McGovern, on Fuller's faculty, desired。
to help the gospel reach more of America, not just one by one, but in a larger, broader,。
more communal sense.。
He knew this meant a gospel that was attuned to context.。
This led him to the discovery, sociologically, that people come to faith faster and simpler。
if they do not have to cross a cultural threshold and if the gospel is embodied in a contextually。
appealing and recognizable way.。
In some ways, these are not only legitimate, but valuable insights.。
On the other hand, what these insights become is a rationale for what is known as the homogeneous。
unit principle, and what later becomes the marketing motivation for growth through gathering。
simply people who are similar, not gathering people through the lens of a diverse group。
of people with a kingdom vision, a brokenness and remaking that moves from nothing less。
than death to life.。
Instead, we call people to join the church as an accommodation to their social context,。
assuring them that they will find there many who are just like themselves.。
What is offered in this way, then, is simply a gospel that is about appeal.。
A warm, positive, life-affirming appeal and a community of people of those who together。
believe that "their needs are being met."。
Conversion comes to mean that we are putting trust in God's eternal hope and having a personal。
relationship with Christ that can become nothing more than getting God to give us good gifts。
for our sake and for the sake of others that we know and love.。
Poignantly, what is not being offered or discipled into many people's lives is the fundamental。
comprehensive revolution of kingdom recreation.。
We take the phrase in Corinthians, "all things being made new," and we attach it to the impact。
of simply saying yes to an affirmation of faith.。
But then that gets cut off from the deep spiritual transformational process by which by word。
and spirit, our minds and our lives are meant to be renewed in order that we may actually。
do, that is, perform, enact, embody the will of God, Romans 12, 1 and 2.。
The next factor in this is what I'm calling agency.。
In Matthew 9, we read, "All things are possible to them that love and serve God."。
This rich but humble affirmation of God's ability to accomplish whatever God may design。
through the power of the Holy Spirit can become nothing more than a mantra like rubbing the。
genie lamp at the will of the disciple.。
That becomes the power for the exercise of my own personal agency.。
I seek God for the power to do my will, not my will to seek the humility to serve the。
power of God.。
In the name of the unassailable and incomparable power of God, there is a kind of teaching。
about the exercise of faith that is really about the role that one can have in being。
the willful believing agent, hence agency, that can accomplish what the prayer may will,。
as though by prayerful agency, the individual or two or three others can by themselves usher。
in the kingdom of God.。
I would argue that if it is the kingdom of God we are naming, not the kingdom of Christian。
leaders or nations or individuals, then human beings are never the primary agent of that。
sentence.。
The inference in some white American evangelicalism is that human agency, represented by what。
is seen as the "truly faithful," the true believers, can bring forth the manifestation。
of God's will and reign.。
It is prayer without doubt, often meaning without humility or self-critique or acknowledged。
finitude or fundamental bias, that produces blessing.。
The best history I know of, of the prosperity gospel as an aside, is written by Kate Bowler。
and is in a book that she has written entitled "Blessed."。
She examines and studies firsthand how this agency theme is managed and described by prosperity。
gospels, by prosperity churches and preachers in the United States and beyond.。
Agency in the way that I'm talking about it at the moment is really just a personalized。
form of dominion that is exerting the power of our vision, personality, or desire.。
The important quality of how we have been made in the image of God can be another good。
gift turned into little more than self-interest.。
We are made to exercise agency in the world.。
When we hold it in the way that often has happened, it plays into what I call consumer。
Christianity, in which human agency and desire occupies the private place with the general。
assurance that this is appropriate because God wants to give us, quote, "the desires。
of our heart," Psalm 37.。
But agency in Israel's life is at the heart of the prophet's critique in Isaiah 58.。
Israel has taken the worship practices of God's people and used them, the prophet says,。
for their own purposes, such that worship ends up being about them and not about God.。
No wonder God says this is as if worship, that is, worship that pretends or claims to。
be about God, as if they were going to actually live in a righteous way.。
But instead of honoring and using their agency to serve Yahweh, in fact, their worship, the。
prophet says, is about themselves.。
This is a story of agency gone to seed without any fruit.。
The fruit of the Spirit is meant to be productive, and it's meant to be productive that shows。
itself in ways far beyond productive agency in the bounty of our own self-interest.。
Instead, the fruit of the Spirit, as you know, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness,。
gentleness, and self-control.。
So dominion, nationalism, individualism, and agency cannot and do not seek or produce the。
fruit of the Spirit.。
Those are all elements that by themselves bear the fruit of a lack of faithfulness rather。
than an evidence of it.。
Another factor for a movement that is founded...。
Christianity and evangelicalism is a movement that is founded on the belief that God gives。
us the peace that passes understanding.。
And yet, fear is a significant feature that motivates American white evangelicalism, particularly。
so for its leaders.。
There are different fears that correspond to different possible threats.。
We could start with theological or doctrinal fear.。
Part of a danger of favored status is then the possibility of losing that status.。
Fear and anxiety grips a lot of evangelical leaders and pastors who then wonder about。
speaking the truth when the stakes are high.。
And if they get it wrong or if people don't like what they say, the loss can be aggressive。
and destructive.。
In some cases, it is built into a self-dependent theology of salvation, as though a person。
is really saying, "I am saved by having the right theology."。
And that can mean that my salvation is mine to win or lose.。
Will I or won't I be saved depends on me, not depending on God and what God has done。
in Jesus Christ.。
So the issue then becomes, do I have the doctrine right or am I too dangerously close to, quote,。
wrong doctrine, wrong belief, wrong communion, wrong practices?。
All of those things being things that Jesus himself was accused of.。
This kind of an approach to fear is about boundaries, a boundary that is about who is。
in the circle versus who and what is outside the boundaries of God's grace.。
Setting the boundaries for oneself or one's family or church or denomination or one's。
nation and so on means that we are fearful about getting it wrong.。
The ever-present need to be sure that we are getting it right, that our people are right,。
that our tribe is right, that our church is right, that our denomination is right, that。
our seminary is right.。
Within one week recently, I received five phone calls from very experienced pastors。
who called to talk about the fact that these pressures around fear were going to mean that。
they themselves feared that they would be fired and that they would not be able to find。
another job because of being judged unacceptable by leaders around them.。
Within a couple of weeks of receiving those phone calls myself, three had been fired and。
not only fired but then maligned.。
This is the evidence of what I'm talking about.。
Another category of fear has to do with the ever-present danger of "the world versus。
the flesh."。
The premise here is that faithful disciples are vulnerable to being consumed or shipwrecked。
by the ubiquitous presence of sin and evil in the world.。
At any moment, our enemy is seeking someone to devour.。
Our disciples need not just the tools of spiritual warfare but the continual readiness for spiritual。
battles.。
This tends to stimulate in our brains the kind of neurobiology and the moral worry that。
makes finding, naming, and embattling enemies an obvious and continuous necessity for many.。
History has shown the likelihood of this progression and the historical evidence, not least in。
exploding numbers of demonimations in the 20th and 21st century.。
In the century of God's greatest wars, the 20th, of the world's greatest wars in the。
20th century, it is plain that enemies are real and that the church must be alert and。
aggressively self-protective.。
It's a fearful posture that ironically pushes away and down the very lost in need of the。
evangel.。
This fear plays readily to a spiritual fight or flight response, which fear often evokes.。
Both a fear of fighting or flight or fleeing, both toward those inside the church and toward。
those in culture.。
It fosters the likelihood of approaching discipleship as embattlement.。
Now clearly the New Testament uses this imagery.。
I'm not in any way arguing that.。
I'm arguing for the way that it's a dominant theme and for what it is that Christian leadership。
should do about that theme.。
The first response of fighting takes up the force of various kinds in order to defeat。
the opponent.。
A recent public example of this was when the Southern Baptist Convention of Seminary Presidents。
proposed to rejected and publicly repudiated the academic study that's known as critical。
race theory.。
This school of thought, critical race theory, attempts to understand the dynamics of racial。
justice and oppression.。
When the Seminary Presidents of the Southern Baptist Convention condemned critical race。
theory, it did so out of a fear that the critique will do damage to the church.。
But by condemning critical race theory, they expose at the same moment unintentionally。
the underlying fear that the denominations originating racism will be exposed.。
Ironically, their condemning action reveals so pointedly that they see CRT, that is critical。
race theory, as the real enemy rather than the underlying controlling racism that debilitates。
them and their gospel.。
By drawing the battle line as these Seminary Presidents did, they fought what they saw。
as an enemy, that is a stand-in for the real opponent, maintaining the embattlement profile。
that is so important to their theological and cultural sensibility.。
And it was done by white male evangelical leaders displaying their power to name and。
control their sense of the reality narrative while masking their fear and their denominations。
fear of losing their white supremacy.。
The chief problem revealed here is what the Apostle Paul says is the fear of the weaker。
brother.。
The Romney fears what does not need to be feared while failing to fear what deserves。
to be feared.。
The fears of many American white evangelicals is a set of fears that center on them, on。
their perceptions, their social location, their beliefs, their tribal interests, rather。
than on what matters most to the kingdom of God.。
Is it too much to think of Jesus's words to the Pharisees that they tithe dill and cumin。
but avoid the weightier matters of the law, mercy and justice?。
Fear management can seem to be one of the defining features of American white evangelicals.。
And for many leaders, this is one of their chief preoccupations.。
American and leadership are words that many in the United States proudly believe belong。
inextricably together.。
The American white evangelical church in most of the last half century has tried to assert。
its voice in the cultural, legal and yes, political maelstrom that I've been trying。
to describe.。
American culture has long since been defined by media and secular culture than ever before.。
There is a genuine battle to acknowledge and to engage in relation to the controlling influences。
shaping children and teens and young adults.。
The reasons to fear the implications of a highly influential secularism, an anti-religious。
bias, not least in the West and East Coast of the United States.。
Now nations around the world have marveled at the pervasive religiosity of the United。
States and the high percentage of Americans who believe in God and worship regularly.。
The liberty and protections of religious freedom are long established and also continuously。
under attack.。
What American white evangelicalism has not done is to find a nationally credible, thoughtful。
leader practitioner who incarnates and speaks into the public sphere in ways that can capture。
the imagination and engage the heart.。
I've tried here to suggest factors that I believe contribute to why this perplexity。
of leadership has not emerged and perhaps would not even be received as a good idea。
or a legitimate hope.。
And of course what is needed, far more than a singular voice, is for the church in the。
United States to live into its true Christian identity.。
Jesus's strategy for disciple making is a new community that lives out its surprising。
eclectic diversity.。
This servant living communion would dismantle and redefine dominion and nationalism and。
individualism and agency and fear.。
This kind of Christian community that is so deeply needed would be an authentic, credible。
communion that lives as the body of Christ in the world and for the sake of the world.。
Not inward turning, but living sacrificially and freely for the sake of the world, especially。
the poor and the marginalized.。
The American white evangelical crisis is not so much in the sense of theological crisis。
as it is a church in crisis over a failure to live out the church's identity as a reflection。
of Jesus Christ.。
Instead, it has turned out to live as a reflection of the culture in which it is placed.。
As simple and plain as that sounds, it is the story of great blessings of life put under。
a basket of American first or of salt losing its saltiness for desire instead to conform.。
Will that change?。
On this day, when the President of the United States has been treated in the way that he。
has by Congress in such a legitimate and defensible way, shows the barren fruit of the American。
evangelical story being identified more with power, secular, political, social, economic,。
cultural power than by the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ.。
It's only the latter that is the hope of the world.。
Let me pause there and welcome my two respondents.。
Thank you, Mark.。
Thank you for your very perceptive discussion of leadership, particularly the leadership。
of the American white evangelicalism and the churches.。
You also outlined quite a few factors which governs or defines our identities as a leader。
in the Bible.。
I'm particularly impressed by the last point, the fear, the factor of fear that really always。
shapes how we behave, how we perform, how we relate to one another.。
So thank you very much.。
There is a lot of insight into that.。
So now may I ask Dr. Jean Lee and Dr. Bernard Wong, our dean and our associate dean, to。
come forward to give their response.。
I would like to ask Jean first.。
Thank you, Professor Levitin, for an insightful portrayal of power and leadership in this。
lecture.。
In particular, I appreciate the personal and contextual narratives you include in these。
lectures, allowing us to integrate theories with reality for a deeper understanding of。
the matter.。
Indeed, the big man paradigm has been apparent for a long time, and all the more in today's。
world.。
No matter what the dominant political system is, people do have a natural tendency to look。
for heroic leaders.。
I lift a narrative of a little lady in a big man's world.。
In my late teens and early twenties, I spent nine years in North America, studying and。
working in a big man's world.。
My first job was in external audit, a profession where you are pushed every year to advance。
a grade in the ranks.。
So quickly, I found myself a short, non-white, Asian female leading an audit team.。
The audit team is tall, handsome-looking, young white males.。
I remember once when we walked into a client's office, the client immediately spotted the。
leader among us, greeting one of my white male subordinates with a warm handshake.。
I still recall how embarrassed the client was when my colleague redirected everyone's。
attention to the short Asian female among them.。
Indeed, we are framed by our culture and context.。
We are bombarded daily with values and expectations that may only be partial truth.。
Not only do we need the firm grasp of our identity in Christ, but also continuous vigor。
in training for theological instinct that can help us sense the distortions we face.。
Professor Levitin pointed out a number of perplexities in the concepts behind leadership。
and power.。
Dominion, nationalism, individualism, agency concepts, and even fear can quickly become。
tools or justifications for power and dominance.。
In our context, we face similar compromises and distortions, especially when different。
pressure groups may use the same words and phrases to mean different things, twisting。
people's minds and thought processes to suit their agenda.。
While Christians from the West may appreciate the relational culture in Asian communities,。
we know that relationships in Chinese actually translates to guan xi, a term expressing an。
obligation of one party to another with a continuing reciprocation of favors in Chinese。
business culture.。
Such practice also penetrates other walks of life, taking forms of excessive or corrupted。
gifting or social exchanges.。
The prosperity gospel is another example of faith distortion that presents itself so vividly。
in our culture.。
Chinese folk religions have long preyed on human desire and a tendency to create a god。
to whom one can give gifts in exchange for favors.。
Thus, we are very much attracted to Matthew 7, 7.。
Ask and it will be given to you.。
Seek and you will find.。
Knock and the door will be opened to you.。
This Bible verse is obviously valuable, only that we tend to stop at ask and be given without。
truly seeking and finding God's will and discerning the door that gets opened.。
In recent years, Hong Kong society undergoes drastic changes both politically and under。
COVID-19.。
Adversities and pressures tear us further apart, splitting groups of brothers and sisters,。
some down the compromising route, some to fighting in the extremes.。
Those taking various middle stances are attacked by both sides.。
We no longer see leadership and power in the traditional sense, but rather see these with。
a negative feeling of distrust.。
We are challenged to go back to the very basic, asking the question, what does the gospel。
mean to our culture and the situation we are facing?。
All of us are confronted with our own fear, be it spiritual as in the Christian faith。
or political in the societal sense.。
Under the changing political climate, the people in Hong Kong are influenced by fear。
in much deeper ways as never before.。
Fight or flight takes on another meaning as individuals and families decide whether。
to redomicile abroad under the changing political climate.。
Hopefully, this decision process involves spiritual discernment and that the Lord continues。
to work in our midst, that our faith be strong wherever we go.。
We continue to pray for God's wonder in this special time of drastic change.。
The big man paradigm is indeed a sharp contrast to the description of Jesus in Philippians。
2, 1 to 8.。
The humble leader is a subversive paradigm.。
Even here, we encounter the easy distortion of James 4.10 and a few other verses that。
says, "Humble yourselves in the presence of the Lord and he will exalt you."。
It is our natural tendency to live according to the system of this world so that we can。
get exalted or rewarded.。
Nevertheless, in discerning the Lord's work during this day and age, we observe the rising。
up of a generation of collaborative leaders rather than individual heroes.。
The next generation faces an increasingly complex and hostile world, yet they are individually。
gifted in various new and creative ways.。
Rather than trusting those at power to resolve all the problems, young leaders today rise。
to face challenges in their own sphere of influence in many different ways.。
There may be limits to what one can do while not in power, but in collaboration and in。
discerning God's will in this day and age, there can be no limits to the possibilities。
that open up.。
Obviously, collaborative leadership also has its limits.。
Decisions may be delayed or out of sync, actions may be fragmented, and chaos may result.。
Nevertheless, collaboration reminds us to humble ourselves and listen to each other,。
to discern God's will in a story that not us, but him is the real hero.。
So I stay contented as a little lady in a big man's world, continuing to find my identity。
in Christ and to learn to be a faithful follower of Christ.。
Thank you, Dr. Labberton, for your very insightful lecture.。
Well, I have always thought that USA and Hong Kong are so different that issues the American。
Evangelical Church faces have little to do with us.。
Unlike USA, Christianity has never been the dominant religion in this part of the world,。
and the church has never risen to a position to influence our governments.。
Yet your lecture reminds us that we share the same sinful humanity.。
Our desire for power, though manifested differently in different contexts, reveals our deep-seated。
fear over survival and identity.。
Today, I will briefly reflect on how your lecture can shed light on the situation in。
Hong Kong.。
Dr. Labberton, you said that in European history, the doctrine of discovery is theologically。
justified and expansionism and conquest through power, and the land uninhabited by Christians。
is assumed undiscovered and must be claimed as part of God's mission in the world.。
I find an interesting parallel in a church-planting strategy advocated in Hong Kong.。
This strategy says that in a city, if no church exists within a radius of a few hundred meters,。
we should plant a church at the center.。
This new church will attract enough members to survive.。
While this sounds reasonable, it is actually the claiming of territory, not the need of。
people that is the motive.。
A city area with no church also means no competitors, a condition favorable for church survival.。
In fact, this thinking is not unlike the scramble of territories by the European nations during。
the colonial era.。
While the colonizers wanted to reap resources from the colonies, the church wants to survive。
with enough members and dollars.。
Besides, successful businesspersons and professions are often invited to give testimonies in individualistic。
gatherings.。
The assumption is that unbelievers will be attracted to the Christian faith by their。
success stories.。
While the Hong Kong church does not have much political power, we aspire to economic power,。
a power that is very appealing in this financial center of the East.。
I must emphasize I'm not against evangelism or church planting, yet our desire for power。
can be hidden under our service to Christ.。
And the gospel we preach will then be different from that of Christ.。
Dr. Labberton, your discussion on fear is very insightful.。
I agree with your observation that fear is intricately linked with power.。
Our fear of losing things we cherish compels us to use power to hold onto them.。
For the American evangelicals, the fear of losing salvation leads them to forge a theology。
of correct doctrine, ethics, and even politics.。
The fear of losing favored status prompts them to draw boundaries, to identify enemies。
so as to condemn and destroy them.。
The Hong Kong church is indeed different.。
We have never had such favored status to hold onto, and we may not fear losing salvation.。
But we have other things to cherish, things we use power to hold onto.。
My observation is that Hong Kong people in general cherish stability and prosperity.。
The desire for a stable society for everyone to prosper economically has been in our DNA。
since the second half of the last century.。
Before the handover of Hong Kong to China in the 1990s, the slogan "stability and prosperity"。
was created to convince Hong Kong people that the handover would be good for the city.。
Indeed, the slogan captured the imagination of all.。
Naturally, the church picks up this culture.。
Hong Kongers understand stability to mean the freedom to gather and do ministry within。
the church building.。
Prosperity means increase in church membership, budget, ministries, and the planting of more。
churches.。
The recent political unrest and the pandemic make us fear losing this stability and prosperity.。
In fact, we have seen sharp declines in church attendance and donations this past year.。
And so our fear is actually not ungrounded.。
Well, long-time Christians fear losing the same church ministry or, I would say, church。
services that they used to enjoy for years.。
Well, as fear is related to power, our response to the current threats reveals how we perceive。
and engage with power.。
The recent turn of events warns the Hong Kong church that we are under external threats。
to speak openly and truthfully, especially against the political power.。
To maintain the stability of doing ministries within the confines of the church, some choose。
to keep silence in order not to provoke the powerful outside.。
Some attempt to appease or even support them.。
It is hoped that we can insulate the church from the power outside so as to maintain our。
power to control things inside so prosperity can continue.。
However, it is not sure whether and for how long this barricade can hold.。
Church leaders who opt for this insulation from outside strategy also exercise their。
power inside by disallowing preaching or discussion of things political within the walls of the。
church.。
They argue that political discussion is unspiritual and disrupts church union, and thus the theological。
justification for the policy of no politics in church is born.。
Out of the fear of to lose internal stability and prosperity, combined with the fear of。
external power, a theology of spiritualisation of the Christian faith and the practice of。
superficial church harmony results.。
However, splitting the inside and the outside of the church also splits the Christian life.。
No wonder many Christians, especially the younger ones, ridicule that the church has。
become an alternative universe alongside the society.。
The church has become irrelevant to society and the Christian faith to individuals.。
Dr. Leperton, you correctly named that our problem is the fear of the weaker brother,。
who wrongly fears what does not need to be feared while failing to fear what deserves。
it.。
We ought not to fear losing stability and prosperity, nor to fear the power of this。
world.。
What we should fear, to quote from your lecture, is the failure to live out the church's identity。
as a reflection of Jesus Christ.。
I believe the first step to cultivating this fear is a mournful repentance from the wrong。
fear that has gripped us all for a long time.。
Thank you very much.。
[Pause]。
Testing, testing.。
Hello friends, we come to the most exciting part, it's the Q&A section.。
I encourage you to post your questions on our website in the live stream page.。
All you need is just to scroll down the webpage.。
Underneath the live stream page in the Putonghua part, there is the Q&A section.。
You need to fill in your name and then you can proceed with posting your question there.。
Your question could direct to Mark and also to Jean or Bernard individually or all three。
of them.。
We have around 45 minutes for this part, but we can see how it goes.。
As the chairperson, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the first question, Mark,。
a question for you.。
This is a person I would like to ask you.。
You know, the last few days you are very unique in how you describe the phenomenon of the。
white evangelism in America.。
And particularly sharp is that you have a very, an approach of self-critiquing.。
And this morning you even come a step further, you would even critique your college, your。
full professor, Donald McIver.。
Now, yes, I think he had a very innovative idea with noble intention to reach out to。
people with the gospel.。
But unfortunately, this developed into a theory of a homogeneous uni principle and eventually。
have been used as marketing scheme or tactic or even deprived the kingdom vision.。
So it's sad to see that, right?。
I'm just thinking as a church leader, as a pastor or even theologian, what lesson we。
can learn from that?。
We have good intention.。
We mean good to do something, to set up certain policy or draft a theory, but eventually turned。
out nasty.。
What lesson we can learn from that?。
Thank you.。
Yes, thank you very much.。
I appreciate you coming back to that point because I think Donald McIver himself was。
making more of an academic observation and it got turned into, as you say, a pragmatic。
strategy for church growth and a marketing approach.。
And in that process, it built a church on very inadequate foundations.。
So I think there are many things to learn.。
First to give thanks that God can use even those, I think, misguided purposes to sometimes。
call many, many people as has happened around the world to faith in Christ.。
So I'm not denying that God can use such misguidedness.。
It's the only reason I can even open my mouth on a given day is that God is willing and。
able to use misguidedness, which I probably exemplify more often than I would ever want。
to imagine.。
So I want to genuinely claim that.。
At the same time, I think other lessons would include things like this.。
I think in that case, what got married together that didn't and shouldn't have been married。
together was really pragmatism with blessing.。
The assumption was that what worked is a sign of God's blessing.。
Well, all kinds of things work to bring about various results, but they may or may not be。
the evidence of the fruit of the Spirit, which is what I was trying to indicate.。
So what shows up and what then gets talked about is which church is the biggest church.。
Can any of us imagine that Jesus would ever be interested in that question?。
That he would ever have wandered around Palestine, as it were, and said, "I wonder which collection。
of disciples are going to be the most numerous."。
That's just an utterly preposterous idea.。
But in American culture, pragmatism is a very, very strong influence.。
And the assumption is if it works, then it must be that God's in it.。
Now, in fairness, as we all know, in the wisdom tradition of both the Hebrew Scriptures and。
the New Testament, there's a very strong correlation that if you do good, good will happen to you.。
If you do bad, bad will happen to you.。
And some pragmatism is built out of an assumption that the laws of the reality of the world。
around us can give us clues to how to best live and practice our lives.。
So for some, that would be seen as a form of wisdom.。
But what it lacked, I think, in that case was any degree of self-critique.。
And I happen to know that there were a number of attempts to try to call that pragmatism。
into question by international voices who came to Donald McGavern and Pete Wagner and。
people like that and said, "This is not a kingdom vision.。
This is an American vision of the church.。
This is about a kind of practical marketing strategy that at its core is not witnessing。
to the faithfulness and call of God in people's lives and in various cultural settings."。
That was unable to be heard, and obviously it went on and became a global phenomenon。
with which Fuller is still very closely tied.。
And sometimes, especially in international settings, I will have spoken and someone will。
come up to me and say, "So are you Fuller or is church growth Fuller?"。
And I say, "Well, church growth is part of Fuller's history.。
I'd like to think that I'm trying to do a faithful job of representing the Fuller of。
today."。
And those two things touch, have overlapping areas, but we are starkly different.。
So I think the lessons, to come back to your originating question, the lessons that had。
to be asked were, what's really happening here?。
What are the hidden and unrecognized assumptions?。
How do we listen to a wide and diverse body of Christ to critique an idea that may be,。
quote, "wise within one culture," but be bankrupt in other cultural settings?。
And how do we let that actually make a claim?。
So in a certain way, I would say, with all due respect to Pete Wagner and to Donald McGovern,。
especially to Pete Wagner, who I'm critiquing more than I am Donald McGovern, I would say。
it was an example of white normativity.。
I sat in some of those meetings where Pete Wagner was receiving the critique of international。
voices saying, "This isn't Americanism.。
This is not a gospel kind of approach."。
And he basically just said, "Well, let me give you more numbers.。
Let me give you more evidence that, quote, 'it works.'"。
And he was unwilling to be critiqued by people whose voices were out of different cultural。
contexts, different theological frames, and he just more or less refused to listen or。
hear or respond to the change.。
Now that would be an example to me of a very significant learning.。
If we're going to be faithful in the complex challenges of today, we have to listen to。
the context that we're in.。
Of course we do.。
But we also have to listen to voices inside that context and beyond it that are going。
to complicate our story and have to cause us to do deeper reflection and consideration.。
So let me come back to one final point about this.。
When African Americans in America heard about the homogeneous unit principle, it felt like。
a rationalization and further defense against the separation of races in the United States.。
And a lot of the Southern churches that became Southern megachurches were churches built。
on the homogeneous unit principle, which was really a form of social segregation that was。
built into the assumption of how the church should be founded and what will enable it。
to grow.。
So the issues of social justice related to African Americans, for example, in the South。
or elsewhere, but certainly in the South, was completely disregarded in the name of。
the pragmatism of churches that can grow.。
Thank you.。
Gina Burn, I would like to have a following discussion with this.。
Yes.。
Please.。
I think this is a very relevant and very important reminder for the Hong Kong churches is that。
we have a tendency to sort of copy the "success" of the American churches.。
And when we count our blessings, we count the numbers and we count the resources that。
we receive, but not the fruits that we bear or the people among us.。
So this is a very, very good reminder that we have to, in our context, discern and not。
be copycats of the big churches.。
Okay.。
Bernard?。
Yeah, I'd just like to add something is that we tend to focus on the results of evangelism,。
which means more Christians coming to church and things like that.。
But recently I heard some very good opinion saying that actually the way we try to convert。
people into Christianity is even more important than the result itself, saying that we sometimes。
use some way of prosperity gospel or some way to achieve quick results, but along the。
way we turn off a lot of people who fail to believe in the gospel that we try to preach.。
And that negative result is actually doing the gospel damage.。
So we have to be really careful about how we preach it, because how we preach it actually。
embodies the gospel itself.。
So I believe there's something to add here.。
Absolutely.。
And another dimension of that, a very point that's so important, and I appreciate what。
both of you have said, is that in that process, we forget why are we trying to convert people?。
Why do we want them to become Christians?。
Is it just to say they're Christians?。
Well that surely is not the motivation.。
And it can't be just for an eternal purpose either.。
Jesus is calling us to be living disciples, embodiments, evidences.。
The church is meant to be the primary evidence, the chief apologetic for why the gospel is。
trustworthy.。
See how the church lives and loves.。
And when we fail to do that, because we fail to disciple people, then we fail again, twice.。
We fail to preach the true gospel.。
We fail to convert people out of the right vision.。
And then they, of course, fail to live that vision.。
What could be less surprising?。
I mean, it's the definition of insanity, of just doing the same thing over and over again。
and trying to hope for different results.。
Yeah, I think ironically, the American church also take a lead in this sense.。
What was happening in America is happening in Hong Kong, and I think all over the world.。
So I think just now what we share is really important.。
We have a question from the audience.。
This question is from yesterday, but relevant to today's lecture.。
It says, "Mark, please comment on the phenomenon of the rise and fall of televangelism in the。
U.S.。
The televangelism."。
Well, televangelism arises out of a confluence of several things.。
It arises out of the pragmatism of technology, allowing technology to deliver preachers primarily,。
initially, to audiences wherever they might be reached.。
The second thing is the pragmatism of a kind of fundamentalism that believed that if you。
could just say the right words in front of people and get them to say yes to your words,。
that you were doing gospel ministry.。
As we know, there can be an incidence, an overlap there, but there's not a synonymousness。
between those two things.。
I could get people to say yes to my words, but be completely disconnected to the meaning。
or reality of the words.。
And again, in the distance of telecommunication, people might write in and send checks and。
ask for prayer, but often their lives are wildly distant from the gospel itself.。
So that would be another reason.。
I think another reason is the overconfidence, especially in white evangelicalism, that words。
are more important than actions.。
So I think the fact that especially Protestantism in general and American white Protestantism。
especially I think has given primacy of place to language and to public speakers who are,。
let's say, tall, white, educated males, that sort of a model, the big man that I was describing.。
And on television, it's a dominance of words, right?。
It's not loving relationships.。
It's not challenging difficult evidences of how to love one another when you're facing。
pain or disagreement.。
Instead, it's literally a program, a show that is being produced to elicit a certain。
effect and speech is more important than action.。
So if a person echoes back my speech and says, "Yes, I affirm what you just said," then。
that's considered a closed loop of communication success.。
But in Jesus's mind, it's why he gives the warning at the end of the Sermon on the Mount.。
Don't build your house on rock and think you've done that when in fact you've built on sand.。
And the difference between building your house on rock and sand is not whether you can name。
the difference between rock and sand.。
It's whether you live what you've said.。
That's what evidences that you have built your house on rock.。
And the rise of televangelism extricates that completely.。
It just makes it irrelevant, honestly.。
It's just the feedback loop of the television screen, the entertainment, the satisfied consumers,。
the sending in of checks, et cetera.。
And its implications are literally unseen, unpracticed, and so forth.。
I hope that makes sense.。
There's so much to say about that subject.。
Okay.。
Any more comment on this?。
Okay.。
So, Mark, another question for you.。
Yes.。
Self-criticism is crucial for church.。
And thank you for your self-destruction of dominion and nationalism.。
However, if white America embraced this self-criticism and not seeing the true influence of the whole。
world, what will happen?。
Well, it's a very sober question.。
I think the Christian language for self-criticism would be words like confession and repentance。
and lament.。
And if the church, if any expression of the church, is unwilling to do those things, which。
are so basic to a grounded, truth-telling, spiritual life, then I don't think we're interested。
in actually being the church, in which case it can and should die.。
I think it is as pragmatic as that.。
Here I'm using pragmatic to say it's as consequential, it's as natural as that.。
A church that's not going to tell the truth about itself confessionally, lamentingly,。
is not a church that is interested in being changed into the likeness of Jesus Christ.。
And then we just become a social movement that does whatever that group of people decides。
to do, and they may decide to do it in the name of Jesus.。
But if they don't actually live the gospel, then as Jesus says, it will be a story of。
building on sand and not on rock.。
And in time, that sand will be the end of our story.。
So I think there's something really quite tellingly critical about the moment that we're。
in.。
I'm not trying to be an alarmist.。
I actually really think there is a crisis of a first-order kind in the American evangelical。
church.。
And while it's perhaps true of other churches and other times and places, I'm not being。
asked to talk about that, so I'm just talking about the white American evangelical reality.。
I wonder if either of the people who are respondents want to engage in what I just said.。
I would be eager to hear if they do.。
I think Bernard would like to say a few words.。
Yeah, thank you.。
Well, actually, when I read the question, I would approach it this way.。
It seems that the person asking the question is thinking that if a person is self-critical,。
then she could not become influential in the world.。
But I think this is kind of dualistic thinking.。
It's that if I am true, then I have to bring you the truth and you have to listen to whatever。
I say.。
And I believe this is the exceptionalism or the wrong kind of God's mission.。
I mean, one kind of evangelism that we are bringing into the world.。
I would try to imagine Christians doing evangelism this way, saying that we are actually truth。
seekers along the way to seek God.。
And for those people who are not yet believers, let's seek God together.。
We can together.。
We are fellow human beings seeking truth together.。
So I think for myself, it is kind of like a thinking that can overcome this kind of。
dualistic, I have the truth and you don't.。
This kind of thinking.。
Yes, that's very helpful.。
Thank you.。
I think authenticity, being true to one another and that we pull together, and that would。
really help us to take one more step forward.。
All right.。
So Mark, another question for you.。
In today's world, global competition has made nationalism an urgent and controversial ideological。
issue.。
How can the American white church teach a healthy patriotism, or that means a love and。
a passion for your own nation, and celebration of our ethnic identity?。
Yes, I think it's a really wonderful question.。
And I think it's a project that has been going on in parts of white evangelicalism in America。
all along.。
People who are clear that we are right to love and want to serve our nation in various。
ways.。
What we don't have to do is turn our nation into an idol or anything even remotely like。
that and give it undue allegiance and deference and power in our lives.。
That's when it turns into nationalism, especially when that characterization then makes it supreme。
over any and all other nations.。
So to my embarrassment as an American, often American patriotism, which is the healthy。
form of the way that we might relate to our nation, has been turned into American nationalism,。
as you know.。
And you end up having these outlandish statements that are made that America is the greatest。
country in the world and blah, blah, blah.。
All of this kind of narcissism within an American culture.。
That I think needs to be replaced.。
It needs to be undone and destroyed, frankly.。
And then it needs to be replaced, as that happens, with a very different sense of devotion,。
a genuine, deep love.。
I sometimes wonder if the proclivity to move from patriotism to nationalism is driven by。
an unwillingness to love and instead to enter into false worship.。
And if we're given to false worship, then we're going to be prone to something like。
nationalism.。
If we're given, giving ourselves to the task of genuine love, servant love, especially。
as Jesus has exemplified it and taught it, then it calls us to a different way of seeing。
our neighbor, a different way of listening, a different way of understanding and empathizing。
with other people.。
Let me give an example.。
In Canada, there was an educator of grade school aged children who became aware of increasing。
violence in schools.。
And she became convinced that part of what it was about was a lack of empathy.。
That as families were busier and as parents were both working and so forth, empathy taught。
in the home was lacking.。
So she developed a curriculum, which is very, very interesting.。
It's a curriculum when a child is about 10 years old or so.。
And for the course of that school year, one part of the curriculum is that a newborn baby。
is brought into the classroom at the beginning of the school year.。
And that baby is going to be a recurrent visitor to the classroom over the course of the whole。
school year.。
And she's written a curriculum about how we pay attention to the baby in the classroom.。
What are they doing?。
What do they seem to be learning?。
What are they responding to?。
How might they be feeling, etc.?。
But she would say in retrospect, after double blind tests have been done on the high degree。
of effectiveness of this curriculum, the surprising part has been that as she had imagined, but。
not shown before, the great formation influence is not what happens when the baby is in the。
room.。
It's what happens when the baby is not in the room.。
And they are, as a class or as individual students, meant to write or think or talk。
about the baby as though they were projecting themselves into the baby's life and trying。
to imagine based on what the baby was like the last time they saw the baby, what might。
the baby be thinking or feeling at this time of the day in the light of these particular。
circumstances?。
Just imagine the baby is fussy, whatever the issues might be.。
And in the long-term studies that have now been done, this has been in place for about。
20 years in Canadian schools, one of the most amazing things is just the high, high, high。
rate of children that have gone through this curriculum having very high sustained empathy。
and others that have not gone through the curriculum having much lower levels of empathy.。
So my point back to the question about nationalism and patriotism is that I just wonder if healthy。
patriotism is built really out of a culture of empathy, of compassion and mercy and justice,。
not out of pride and arrogance and power.。
Now I know that that can sound very idealistic.。
I'm not unaware of that at all.。
I'm just saying that from a Christian point of view, I think one is much more likely to。
produce healthy patriotism and much less likely to produce this kind of fierce nationalism.。
Thank you.。
No more comment, right?。
Okay.。
Just now you mentioned about, in your lecture, you mentioned about melting pot.。
We have a question that could you give us some practical suggestions for forming a diversified。
community within the church without it becoming a melting pot?。
But we'll say it.。
Right.。
Well, I developed something at the churches that I have served that I also developed when。
I came to join the faculty at Fuller.。
At Fuller, it took a particular form, which is something that we call MICA groups, which。
are groups of different kinds of people, different backgrounds, different races, different denominations,。
who gather together and spend two years in a small group discussing content, which is。
surrounding the issues of the convergence of worship, preaching and justice in this。
case, where everyone literally brings a different point of view.。
And you're invited into this group and you're invited to bring what you might hold in common。
and you're invited to bring what you may hold as differences.。
And that is actually the value of the group, is to practice conversations, sustained conversation。
with people who are not like us around issues that really matter.。
Often small groups are built with people who, again, choose largely homogeneous gatherings.。
But these groups are built around this different kind of social context.。
I have to say it's been a very gratifying and joyful thing to see the way that these。
groups have developed.。
And I think that a parallel model happening in a local church could really happen, not。
because you're there to debate.。
We're not there to debate.。
We're there to actually talk about the subjects that are part of the curriculum that the group。
is going through.。
But naturally debates arise.。
And the commitment as you join the group is, I will choose to stay in this conversation。
with these people for two years, not just for as long as it's happy and easy for me,。
but I will agree to be part of the group for a two year period.。
I'm going to submit myself to that as a spiritual discipline and let the differences then allow。
us to learn from one another and get beyond our own categories.。
Mark, I envy your full experience.。
Anything we can do from our CGST community?。
I guess you're looking at our responses.。
Because we have a dean and associate dean here.。
It is a very good, I would say it is a noble goal and we like to strive towards that.。
And we always struggle between how homogenous and how diverse we can be.。
Say for example, we hope that our assembly can be more diverse, but because we all have。
some sort of image to project to outside, and so we kind of naturally attract like-minded。
people together.。
Of course we want to be diverse, but so that is also, that is the struggle.。
And the other struggle we have, I believe in Hong Kong churches right now is that people。
tend not to have this desire to come together with different people because those meetings。
tend to be very emotionally, psychologically draining and it's very tiring to do it.。
And so I would, I'm reluctant to offer any advice on that, but the reality is that it。
is very difficult to do.。
So yeah, so that is what it would be.。
Well I think at CJST we always value, our core value is to have an open mind and to。
be open to whatever we encounter.。
But I think it's a human's natural tendency to form a homogenous community and to stay。
comfortable there.。
So yes, I think whether it's churches or seminary, we really need to be open and to。
encounter different people.。
And it's paradoxical because only then you become more human and you expand your scope。
and to learn to love and to appreciate different things in life.。
Thank you, thank you.。
I think we have a lot of things to learn from that.。
Mark, just now you mentioned the term CRT, the critical race theory.。
I must confess that many Hong Kong people are not familiar with that concept.。
In fact someone asked here, could you explain what exactly is that theory and what's the。
background and what is the incident in this Southwestern practice convention?。
Yeah, please.。
Well it was born really in the late 20th century in America and it was a theory that is often。
attached to people like James Cone, but not only James Cone, who looked at the theological。
paradigms and made what now seems like very obvious observations that were beginning to。
emerge by the middle part of the 20th century.。
That is that our theology claims to be neutral culturally, but in fact it's always contextualized。
and that we can't really claim to understand anything without an understanding of context.。
And this is where hyphenated theologies begin to arise like "African American Christianity"。
or "Asian American Christianity" or "Black Theology," "Feminist Theology," "Queer Theology,"。
etc.。
And so the issue becomes what are the underpinnings of our understanding of these categories theologically。
and how do we critically evaluate them?。
Now they get intertwined with postmodern critical theory.。
So you have the critical theory that's gaining ascendancy in the 70s and 80s in Europe and。
in the United States for sure.。
And it's basically a critical theory as it was understood at the time that's represented。
by Jacques Derrida or Michel Foucault or other such people, is that basically there is no。
absolute of almost anything and that really what we have fundamentally is a complete relativistic。
world.。
And in that way, I would argue that they are arguing philosophically for something that。
I as a Christian would not be able to embrace at the level that they do, though I have learned。
a great deal about race from critical race theory.。
So that is swirling around and for people on the left politically, they would often,。
especially people of color, would often see critical race theory as like in the same way。
that Marxism was often very helpful in understanding the nature and plight of the worker, for example.。
They would say this is really a great set of tools to be able to dismantle white normativity,。
for example.。
And therefore, they would want to use critical race theory.。
And what happened is that then a lot of people in order to reject the left for different。
reasons have said, oh, the problem is critical race theory.。
It should be repudiated.。
That was what I was discussing today.。
And it should be repudiated because what they want to affirm instead, though they don't。
usually say it this plainly, is that they want to defend white normativity and they。
see critical race theory as the problem.。
Whereas what I was trying to get at is that the problem is not critical race theory as。
a certain theory.。
It's not the theory that's finally the problem.。
It's the actual racism that's the problem.。
And whether you want to examine it through the critical race theory or through some other。
mechanism, that needs to be addressed, not the theory itself.。
So to make the theory the problem rather than the actual condition is what I was trying。
to address.。
I hope that clarifies it for any who might have been confused.。
You can certainly find plenty online about critical race theory.。
And a lot of it is Marxist and a lot of it is very adamantly anti-Christian.。
I just think like any good theory, though, there's a lot to be learned all the same.。
Just now the person asked, actually he already Googled it, but I think he wants to know a。
bit more inside the story.。
That's all.。
Yeah.。
Yes.。
Okay.。
I hope I provided that.。
Did you want more?。
Yeah, I'm fine.。
I'm fine.。
I'm fine.。
All right.。
Okay.。
One more question.。
The question asked, "We in Hong Kong receive the gospel hand down by the West."。
You know, the Western missionary from America, from Europe come to Hong Kong from China.。
So we receive the gospel in this way.。
But the gospel hand down to us probably mixed with American culture, American tradition,。
but most of the time we don't really recognize that.。
So the gospel we receive might be incompatible with our own culture and our own government。
here.。
So any suggestion for the Christian in this part of the world?。
Yes.。
Well, I would say that no one knows anything purely and neutrally.。
We all are knowers in locations.。
So there's no way of getting rid of every element of white American evangelicalism any。
more than there's an ability to get rid of a certain kind of cultural bias or tendency。
or whatever it might be.。
So let's not go for the absolute purity.。
Let's just go for something better than what we have.。
I think this is where something like a tool like critical race theory, which I do not。
embrace as a practice, can add to the tool set that we have to try to get a clearer picture。
of what's going on.。
I think it's very interesting.。
And I want to just say I know that I'm stepping into delicate territory in what I'm about。
to say.。
And I'm also aware that I know, I think, a fair amount about this movement, but not。
all that you would certainly know about it.。
But when I've heard about the Sinoization of the church in or of Christianity in Asia。
or in China in particular, it's interesting to me that the two things are happening at。
the same time.。
On the one hand, the government, I think, seems to be asking for clarity about what。
is truly Chinese.。
And there are things about the gospel that I would say are truly Chinese.。
And what they're trying to critique is let's get rid of the colonialist past in relationship。
to Christianity and get down to at least a truly Chinese Christianity.。
I know this is very complicated territory.。
So hang in with me here.。
I'm just trying to make a small point in the middle of an ocean of challenges.。
But I think in a way, the government's instinct about that is a really worthy one from a Christian。
point of view, saying, let's understand who we are culturally and how our faith redefines。
and helps us understand what it means to live as a faithful disciple in any given context,。
let's say specifically in a Chinese context, as a faithful Christian person of Chinese。
descent.。
Now, the ironic part of that is that if that happened, then I think the gospel that would。
actually be found would be a gospel that would enable the Chinese church both to see that。
we are inseparably bound together across the world.。
The gospel is inherently international, intercultural, interracial, et cetera.。
But it would also give, I think, a fresh set of tools to be able to ask, how do we freshly。
look at how we communicate the gospel, how we articulate the gospel, how we enact the。
gospel in our setting in a way that might enable the gospel to be strengthened?。
Now, I know along the way, the fear is, understandably, that the gospel will be lost.。
And I'm not denying the pressure of that influence.。
Here having now ventured into this dangerous and complicated territory, let me especially。
ask my two responders to engage with us, please, with me.。
Rescue me from the trouble I've just gotten into.。
>> Okay, thank you, thank you.。
>> Can I?。
>> Yes, please.。
>> I totally agree with you, Dr. Leperton, but I'd like to add something onto that is。
I believe for Christians that are not in America, like in Hong Kong, we receive the gospel,。
we are influenced by the American church a whole lot.。
But I think one important thing for us to do is to understand in what context did that。
gospel, that version of the gospel came about.。
And so actually the lecture that Mark, you gave these few days, very important for us。
because the, what I call and quote, the American version, I mean, there is a lot of truth and。
treasure within that, we have to say.。
But of course, there are some pitfalls that comes together with the version.。
And there are historical and constitutional reason, cultural reason why it all came about.。
But I believe for us in Hong Kong, when I first, you know, turned to Christ years ago,。
the version that I listened to, very close to the American version.。
It was until I came into a seminary and learned theology that I start to realize that the。
gospel is so-called much wider or has much more different perspectives to look at.。
So I believe one important thing we have to do outside of America is to understand how。
that came about in a particular context, instead of throwing away the whole thing and only。
critiquing the whole thing.。
So I would say that is my personal experience on that.。
Yeah, thank you.。
That's really helpful.。
Well, I think in this part of the world, Christians are trained more to be quote unquote obedient。
and they just take in whatever they're taught.。
And we need to challenge our Christians to think critically for themselves and to develop。
the sort of theological mind, rather than just listen and just do whatever they're told.。
I think it's a sort of a different culture than the West.。
Yes, yes.。
Okay.。
Time flies.。
We have 45 minutes is gone.。
But one last question, right, Mark?。
One last question.。
Yeah.。
Just now, already you already shared a little bit about your fuller experience to how to。
form a diversified community with a diversified background.。
We still have questions to ask.。
Could you share a little bit more?。
That means just now what you shared is not enough for that person.。
Can you share a little bit more about forming a multi-ethnic or multi-something group?。
This is a very strange question.。
A multi-ethnic and a multi-something group.。
How could you form such a...。
Because in such a church, we have difficulty and conflict and different opinions among。
members and even members and leaders, whatever.。
So anything you'd like to share a little bit?。
Well let me just be very, very personal about it.。
Like anybody, and in my case being a white American male evangelical leader, I can easily。
get...。
I mean, I'm fully guilty as charged.。
So all of those things are true of me.。
And I think one of the things that's also true for me is that I realize how much God。
wants to crack open my imagination and the world of relationships and God's vision for。
the church in a way that is not a reflection of me and of a reflection of people that are。
like me.。
It includes people like me, but it also includes here, I think, especially in Ephesians 2.。
It includes people who do not look like me, who don't talk like me, who don't live in。
the world in the same way that I do.。
And since I became a Christian, lo these many, many years ago, I realized that to be a Christian。
meant that God was changing me in many ways, including my social location.。
So the social location I was born into is not the social location of the people of God.。
That social location is now in Christ.。
And if I'm in Christ, then I am meant to be in communion with people that are also in。
Christ.。
And some of them will be like me, and the majority actually will not be like me because。
the majority of the world is not like me.。
So I have made it a point over the years to try to just form trusting relationships, friendships,。
knowledge of people that are like me and not like me, and to build relationships of trust.。
And I think what's happened over time has been that I have quite an array of friends。
who do not see the world the same way as I do or as they do in relationship to each other.。
But because they trust me and they trust that I'm going to respect them, learn from them,。
receive them as brothers and sisters in Christ, I stumbled really into discovering that they。
would accept an invitation from me to meet together.。
Now that meant that there was already a relationship of trust with me.。
They knew that I was not going to let anything inappropriate happen in the meeting.。
They knew that I wanted it to be honest discussion, and they knew that this would be the way things。
could unfold.。
And so by just stumbling into this idea of gathering unlike people together, I started。
accumulating experiences of doing this and realized that a lot of other people would。
like to be in a group like that, but they didn't know how that could come about.。
And then you have to figure out how can you make it come about in a more systemic way.。
Let me tell you, though, about a different, related but different experience.。
When I was a pastor in Berkeley and when evangelicalism of the kind we have been discussing was on。
the rise, I was the pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Berkeley, California, which is surrounded。
by the University of California, which is a wonderful and crazy institution.。
And in that setting, evangelicalism and Christian faith itself was treated as anathema.。
So we started a conference that we called the Global Church Conference, "Hearing the。
Church in the Majority World."。
And there were several criteria for the people that we wanted to speak to.。
We wanted to have them come and speak to us.。
They couldn't have any financial relationship with Fuller, I mean, with that church.。
We would pay them an honorarium for their speaking, but they were not dependent on any。
resources that our church was sending to them or to their workplace, whatever it might be.。
Secondly, they needed to come from at least five different places in the world.。
They needed to be both men and women.。
Of course, they needed to be multiracial.。
And the topic from the first year, just so that you know how long these subjects have。
been living with me, I think the first global church conference was, let's see, it would。
have been in about 1995 or so.。
So for at least 15 years, this conference, which continues on to this day, invites people。
from around the world to come and speak around a theme.。
And that first year's theme was evangelicalism, the gift and the problem.。
In that setting, on the very first night, these five people from different parts of。
the world had gathered to give these in-person lectures.。
And before the conference had even begun, we were together talking and praying, and。
there was some laughter that went on in one corner of the room.。
And I said, "What's the laughter about?"。
And they said, "Well, we've just admitted to each other we tried to think of reasons。
not to come to this after all."。
And I said, "Oh, that's fascinating.。
Why did you think about not wanting to come?"。
And they said, "Well, because we actually believe that you mean it when you say, 'Come。
and tell the truth as you would in your own setting.'"。
Not for an American audience, but as you would tell the truth in your setting, we believe。
you actually want that to happen.。
But the thing is, no one in America has ever asked us to come and tell the truth as we。
would tell it in our setting.。
They've asked us to come and tell the truth to an American audience that would please。
an audience and hopefully, potentially, gain some financial support for the mission that。
they were involved in, rather than telling the truth.。
Now that was really poignant.。
It was exactly the purpose of these conferences.。
And the reason why they've gone on year by year is to stimulate and make public, in a。
way, the practice of a public conversation, of watching people combined together, all。
in Christ, but from different parts of the world, with different points of view around。
the same topic, and show us in doing so, how to do this peaceably and wisely and honestly.。
It had to be honest.。
It could not be some kind of easy deference to the other.。
It had to actually take on the thorny questions that we were trying to work out.。
It was an amazing experience.。
And by the end, there were people who, in our final little group time together, probably,。
were weeping over how significant this had been, because they had never been invited。
into that sort of experience.。
And fortunately, that congregation was able to receive it.。
And from there, the practices of growing these kinds of groups increased.。
I hope that's a helpful answer.。
Thank you.。
I think your personal story speaks a lot and recaps what you mentioned, the points you。
mentioned earlier.。
So any more follow-up?。
No?。
Okay.。
So, Mark, this morning, indeed, very terrific that we can hear words from you, words of。
wisdom, and also you stimulate our thoughts in a profound way.。
And also, I really appreciate your way of answering questions, very gentle, very clear.。
Thank you very much.。
So we look forward to tomorrow's final lecture.。
We continue to pray for you as well.。
So thank you.。
Thank you very much, people.。
Thank you for coming to this lecture this morning, and I pray that everyone is well.。
All right.。
Thank you.。
Bye-bye.。
Bye-bye.。
Bye-bye.。
[MUSIC]。
