(soft piano music)。
- Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.。
Welcome to the second session。
of the Josephine Soh Culture and Ethics Lectures, 2023,。
hosted by China Graduate School of Theology.。
Our theme this year is "Written for Us,。
The Old Testament as Christian Scripture."。
Our keynote speaker is Reverend Dr. Christopher Wright,。
the Global Ambassador and Ministry Director。
of Langham Partnership.。
The two response speakers are Reverend Dr. Florence Koh。
and Dr. Johnson Yu.。
Similar to the arrangement of the previous session,。
there will be time for question and answer。
at the end of tonight's session.。
Our ushers have memo pads ready for you。
to write down your questions,。
or you can choose to come forward in person。
in the middle of the hall to ask.。
Let me give you a little bit more introduction。
about Dr. Wright.。
Dr. Wright is a missiologist.。
He's an Anglican clergyman and also Old Testament scholar.。
He had published extensively,。
and two of his books, namely "宣教宗的上帝,"。
The Mission of God, Unlocking the Bible's Grand Narrative,。
and the other one, "上帝子民的宣教使命,"。
The Mission of God's People,。
A Biblical Theology of the Church's Mission.。
These two books have either been in the textbook。
or on the reading list。
of many of the mission-related courses。
taught here in CGST.。
So it's a real pleasure to meet you in person, Dr. Wright,。
and hear you lecture.。
Earlier this afternoon,。
Reverend Dr. Wright guided us in a reflection。
on how the Old Testament informs us。
about our Christian identity,。
answering the question of who we are.。
Upcoming in this session,。
we'll be looking at what we are here for,。
the Old Testament and Christian mission.。
Mission to the Nations is not just a scholarly pursuit。
for Dr. Wright, who is a missionary kid,。
and had experience of teaching and living in India。
with his wife and kids as missionaries.。
We are very much eager to hear his perspectives。
and findings.。
It's very cold out there.。
Let's extend a very warm welcome。
to Reverend Dr. Christopher Wright.。
(audience applauding)。
- Thank you.。
Thank you so much, Swans,。
for that very warm welcome indeed.。
Yes, actually, this is the first time。
I've ever felt cold in Hong Kong.。
I've been here many times,。
but it's nearly always been very hot,。
so it's actually quite a pleasure。
to be in a temperature a bit more like London,。
where I left behind a few days ago.。
Now, in our first lecture,。
we explored that theme, as Professor Kwan said,。
the theme of Christian identity.。
And it was interesting that someone said to me,。
just as we were going out,。
that I kept on saying about identity is that,。
who are we?。
Who are we as God's people?。
And they said, it's good to ask the question in that way,。
rather than simply asking, who am I?。
Because so often that is the way we ask it as individuals,。
we want our individual identity.。
And just thinking about that chance comment。
as we were leaving,。
that of course, who am I does depend as a Christian。
on who we are as the people of God.。
But I argued then in that last lecture。
that we can't answer that question,。
who are we as Christians, as the church,。
without going back to the texts and the images。
and the story and the metaphors of the Old Testament,。
the scriptures of the Lord Jesus himself.。
But there is a further dimension to that question,。
asking that question, who are we?。
Which has to do with the purpose of our existence。
as God's people in the world.。
And there's some analogy here to things,。
human artifacts,。
because the only way to explain what something is,。
if it's been manufactured,。
is to understand what it's for.。
You could have a clock and you could describe it,。
I have a little one here,。
and it's with a little box,。
it's got a funny little face,。
it's got numbers up to 12, why only 12?。
It's got two hands that go round and round.。
But you haven't said what it is as a clock。
until you've said, ah, well, it's for telling the time,。
that's its purpose of existence,。
is to help you know what time it is.。
What is the purpose for which it's been designed。
and produced?。
And so therefore we must ask,。
if we claim that our identity is a people。
who are created by God,。
as we said in our first lecture,。
we have to further ask, yes, for what purpose?。
What are we here for?。
What is the reason for our existence。
and the purpose of being this unique people on the planet?。
Or perhaps better to ask,。
what was the purpose and goal, objective of God himself,。
the God of the Bible,。
for which and within which he chose to create us as human?。
Us as his people?。
What is the mission of God?。
To quote the title of a book that was just mentioned.。
Well, the apostle Paul, of course,。
gives us what I think is perhaps the most succinct statement。
of the mission of God in Ephesians 1, verses nine and 10,。
where God says, just a moment,。
I need to bring that on there, yes,。
where God says this, I'm quoting,。
or Paul says this, I'm quoting him,。
he says, "God has made known to us the mystery of his will。
according to his good pleasure,。
which he purposed in Christ."。
So when Paul's talking about the will of God there,。
he doesn't mean his will for my life,。
he's talking about God's great plan and purpose,。
"to be put into effect。
when the times reach their fulfillment,。
to bring unity to all things in heaven。
and on earth under Christ."。
And when Paul says all things in heaven and earth,。
he means it, he's talking about the whole creation.。
And so God's plan, says Paul,。
is to bring unity, reconciliation, healing,。
to the whole creation in and through Christ.。
That's the mission of God.。
It's the redemption, the reconciliation of the creation。
that has been broken and fractured by sin and evil。
into the new creation,。
which will be populated by the redeemed。
from every culture, tribe, and nation through the cross。
and the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ.。
I think that that, that expression there。
in Ephesians chapter one,。
is what Paul probably meant when he talked about,。
in Acts 20, about the whole counsel of God,。
which he said he had preached to the people in Ephesus。
in Acts 20, verse 27.。
He means the plan of God, the purpose of God,。
from what we would say from Genesis to Revelation,。
the whole grand narrative of scripture,。
creation, fall, redemption, and new creation,。
all embraced and held together by Christ.。
So the mission of God then is fundamentally。
the activity of God, driving this story forward。
from its beginning through its multiple facets。
in the scriptural story, bringing it to its conclusion.。
Now that's the reason why,。
some of you may know about the Lausanne movement.。
I hope you do, here at CGST,。
and Billy Graham and John Stott。
on the first Lausanne Congress in 1974.。
Well, at the third Lausanne Congress in South Africa in 2010,。
we produced a statement which became known。
as the Cape Town Commitment,。
which I dare say some of you would have heard of,。
and I believe has also been translated into Chinese.。
And here's how it defines mission.。
Let me quote to you from it,。
and it'll come up on a couple of screens.。
I hope you can read that.。
It says this, "And as I read this,。
"please listen for the biblical echoes,。
"the echoes of the scriptures,"。
that you, I hope, will discern through it.。
It says, "We are committed to world mission。
"because it is central to our understanding of God,。
"the Bible, the church, human history,。
"and the ultimate future.。
"The whole Bible reveals the mission of God。
"to bring all things in heaven and on earth。
"into unity under Christ,。
"reconciling them through the blood of his cross."。
There's Colossians.。
"In fulfilling his mission,。
"God will transform the creation broken by sin and evil。
"into the new creation。
"in which there is no more sin or curse.。
"God will fulfill his promise to Abraham。
"to bless all nations on the earth。
"through the gospel of Jesus, the Messiah,。
"the seed of Abraham.。
"God will transform this fractured world of nations。
"that are scattered under the judgment of God。
"into the new humanity that will be redeemed。
"by the blood of Christ from every tribe,。
"nation, tongue, and language,。
"and will be gathered to worship our God and Savior.。
"God will destroy the reign of death,。
"corruption, and violence。
"when Christ returns to establish his eternal reign。
"of life, justice, and peace.。
"And then God, Emmanuel, will dwell with us,。
"and the kingdom of this world。
"will become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ,。
"and he will reign forever."。
I hope I might have heard an amen somewhere around the room.。
I read that in Africa, they go, "Hallelujah!"。
But then you're Chinese,。
so I don't suppose you'll do that.。
Now, what I hope is clear in that statement,。
which I hope you heard the scriptural echoes,。
is that God is the principal actor.。
Although it begins with our mission。
that we are committed to,。
it reminds us that it is God。
who has been driving this story forward。
from its beginning,。
from its promise, right through to its conclusion.。
But within that story, or that drama of the scripture,。
God has chosen to have a partner.。
He has chosen to bring together。
those who will participate with him in this great project.。
As Paul puts it, "We are co-workers with God,"。
which is quite a remarkable expression.。
And that covenant people, of course,。
is the people of Israel and the Old Testament,。
and believers in the Messiah,。
Jesus, Jews, and Gentiles in the New.。
So what are we here for?。
What is our purpose?。
We are called to partner with God。
in the fulfillment of God's intentions。
for the world and for creation,。
to do that within the course of human history,。
and then to go on serving, worshiping,。
and glorifying God for all eternity。
in the world to come, in the new creation,。
God's new creation.。
Now, in our first lecture,。
the one, if you were here earlier this afternoon,。
you'll remember that we surveyed。
a number of Old Testament texts。
that related to the story of Israel.。
I want to do much the same thing again,。
but this time to show the reflection of them in mission,。
how they affect the purpose of God's people.。
And I want to speak about four.。
Blessing, in a slightly different way from the first.。
Blessing, priesthood, witness, and servanthood.。
So here is the Old Testament Christian mission,。
and the first thing we want to think about。
is missional blessing.。
Now, when did the church begin?。
Well, some people say the church began。
on the day of Pentecost.。
I hope that at least after my first lecture,。
you'll realize that the church didn't begin。
on the day of Pentecost,。
but began right back with Abraham,。
when God called the people into existence.。
But just as the church didn't begin。
on the day of Pentecost,。
Christian mission didn't begin on the Mount of Ascension。
only at the end of Matthew's Gospel.。
The mission of God's people began。
when God announced his intention through Abraham。
to bless not only him and his people,。
but all the nations on earth through him.。
That's God's mission.。
That's really where we trace it back to.。
Let me remind you of those verses,。
Genesis chapter 12, verses one to three.。
Very quickly read them.。
The Lord said to Abraham,。
"Go from your country, your people,。
"and your father's household。
"to the land that I will show you.。
"I will make you into a great nation,。
"and I will bless you.。
"I will make your name great and be a blessing."。
Or you will be a blessing.。
"I will bless those who curse you,。
"and whoever, who bless you."。
And, sorry.。
"I will bless those who bless you,。
"and whoever curses you, I will curse."。
And, bottom line, "All peoples on earth。
"will be blessed through you."。
Now, it's not hard to hear what the key word。
in those verses are.。
It's the word bless and blessing,。
which shines through about five times in three verses.。
And this is very good news,。
because this is Genesis 12,。
which comes after Genesis 11.。
You need to know these things.。
You don't get a PhD for nothing.。
But it's not just the arithmetic,。
because as I was saying this morning,。
Genesis 11 is the sort of climax。
of the story of human fallenness and sin and rebellion。
coming to its climax in the Tower of Babel。
and the scattering of the nations.。
Genesis 12 suddenly is good news all over again,。
that God is going to bring blessing into the world.。
So it's no wonder, therefore,。
the Apostle Paul quotes this text。
as what he calls, in Galatians 3, verses eight and nine,。
the gospel in advance.。
That's what he said,。
that the scriptures preach the gospel in advance.。
So Abraham saying, "Through you,。
"all nations will be blessed."。
The Greek literally is he pre-evangelized Abraham.。
Here's God's great surprise, good news,。
that in spite of all that has happened。
in Champlains 4, 3 to 11,。
God still intends to bless the nations of the earth.。
And he would launch this mission。
through Abraham and his people.。
So therefore, as we were thinking earlier,。
there is a universal purpose。
to the existence of particular Israel.。
Israel as a nation exists for the sake。
of God's ultimate purpose for the whole of humanity.。
And this fundamentally missional intention。
of the election of Israel。
echoes on and on through the Old Testament.。
Now, you kindly referred to my book, "The Mission of God,"。
and there's a whole chapter on this in there,。
looking at these texts.。
But let me just read you two or three of them very quickly.。
Psalm 22, verse 27, "All the ends of the earth。
"will remember and turn to the Lord,。
"and all the families of the nations。
"will bow down before him."。
Isn't that an echo of Abraham?。
Psalm 47, verse nine, "The nobles of the nations。
"assemble as the people of the God of Abraham,。
"for the kings of the earth belong to God,。
"and he is greatly exalted."。
Psalm 47.。
Psalm 86, verse nine, "All the nations you have made。
"will come and worship before you, Lord,。
"and bring glory to your name."。
I sometimes wonder what was going through the mind。
of an Israelite when they sang those words,。
even just thinking of the nations。
that they knew about in their world.。
Mind you, sometimes I wonder what's going through。
the mind of Christians when they sing our hymns。
and songs as well, so it's not surprising.。
But there it is, in the text.。
"All the nations that God has made。
"will ultimately worship him.。
"And turn to me and be saved, all you ends of the earth,。
"for I am God and there is no other,"。
says Isaiah 45, verse 22.。
"Many nations will be joined with the Lord in that day。
"and will become my people,"。
Zechariah two, verse nine, and so on.。
Many, many more, those are just a sampling.。
So when we turn to the New Testament then,。
it's fascinating, isn't it, that the very first verse。
of Matthew's gospel traces the ancestry of Jesus。
not just back to David, Israel's messianic king in prophecy,。
but to Abraham.。
So Matthew begins with Abraham in the first verse。
and ends with a strongly Abrahamic word of Jesus。
in the Great Commission where he tells his disciples。
to go and make disciples of all nations,。
rather like Paul, who speaks about the obedience of faith。
among all nations, it's very Abrahamic.。
Here's how a New Testament scholar, Richard Baucom,。
a very fine New Testament scholar, puts it,。
and I quote, he says, "Matthew frames the whole story。
"of Jesus between the identification of him。
"as a descendant of Abraham,"。
in the opening verse of the gospel,。
"and in the closing words of Jesus at the end of the gospel。
"with the commission to the disciples。
"to make disciples of all nations.。
"For Matthew, Jesus is the Messiah not only for Jews,。
"but also for Gentiles.。
"He is the descendant of Abraham,。
"through whom God's blessing will at least。
"at last reach the nations."。
So mission to the nations, as we would put it,。
evangelization of the world and all of that,。
is not some kind of afterthought that occurred to Jesus。
on the Mount of Ascension when he suddenly thought,。
hey, I'm going off back up to heaven,。
what are these guys gonna do with the rest of their life?。
Hey, why don't you go be missionaries?。
That was a good idea.。
A sort of afterthought at the end of the gospels.。
No, it's the climax, it's the point,。
it's what the gospel is all about.。
That what God had now accomplished through the death。
and resurrection of Jesus Christ。
must now become the source of blessing to all nations。
so that God could keep his promise to Abraham.。
So in other words, therefore,。
there's this theological affirmation。
that if we are in Christ,。
then not only, as Paul says in Galatians,。
are we the seed of Abraham,。
we share the blessing of Abraham,。
we are also commissioned to spread the blessing of Abraham.。
Indeed, I would argue that there is something。
great commission-ish, that's a word,。
about the Genesis 12, one to three.。
I'm not suggesting that it's sort of exactly the same,。
but the language certainly bears that sort of flavor.。
It starts with command, go.。
It also says be a blessing.。
That middle line is actually an imperative,。
not just you will be a blessing, but be a blessing.。
And then it ends with all nations。
will be blessed through you.。
So here is a kind of a dynamic impulse。
in which Abraham has launched into the world。
in order to become, as it were,。
the launch pad of God bringing blessing into the world.。
So the people whom God creates in Abraham。
are not only a people for God, belonging to God,。
as we were thinking earlier,。
but also a people for the world.。
Our identity is also our mission.。
In other words, Genesis 12, verses one to three,。
is both ecclesiological, it's the beginnings,。
as it were, of the people of God,。
it's also missiological, because it describes。
the very purpose through which they exist.。
And this Abrahamic dimension of Christian mission。
impacts not just that Gentile mission。
in the book of Acts, where Paul sees。
the moving out to the Gentiles。
as God keeping his promise to Abraham,。
but I would say would be the kind of mantra。
that one could put over all the following centuries。
of Christian mission ever since.。
You could argue that Christian mission, at its simplest,。
is simply a matter of God keeping his promise to Abraham,。
which he began to do, of course, in the book of Acts,。
and then in the New Testament era,。
so that the gospel went south, down to Africa,。
with the Ethiopian eunuch.。
It goes east, according to the church in India,。
with Thomas, who brought the gospel to India,。
and there's certainly documentary evidence。
of Christianity in India from the second century.。
It also, of course, went eastwards to Syria,。
and then northeast, and it was Syrian missionaries。
who were bringing the gospel to China,。
as I'm sure you know, by the sixth to eighth century,。
went west when the apostle Paul。
crossed the Bosphorus into Europe,。
and eventually reached the very edges of the world,。
Ireland, where I come from,。
those little islands just off the edge,。
about to drop off the edge of the world,。
and, of course, ever since,。
every time the gospel crosses a barrier,。
reaches new people, God is keeping his promise to Abraham,。
bringing the blessing of salvation。
to new nation after new nation,。
until the day comes that we read about in Revelation,。
Revelation 7, verse nine, where John says,。
"I saw a great multitude that no one could count。
from every tribe, nation, people, and language。
standing before the throne of God and the Lamb."。
And I have a kind of mental picture of God。
poking Abraham in the ribs and saying,。
"There you are, I kept my promise.。
All nations I said, all nations it is.。
Mission accomplished."。
So that's the first, this missional blessing,。
the Abrahamic dimension of Christian mission,。
and there's a lot more about that, of course,。
in my two books.。
That leads us to the second theme that I wanted to bring,。
which is missional priesthood,。
moving on from Genesis to Exodus.。
We won't go all the way through the Old Testament,。
but at least we do the first two or three books.。
God's address to Israel at Mount Sinai。
comes after the Exodus, after they get out of Egypt,。
in Exodus chapter 19.。
And here again, we pick up one of those identities。
of God's people, we mentioned it,。
I mentioned it in passing in the earlier lecture,。
of being God's priesthood.。
But let me read these verses to you,。
Exodus chapter 19, verses three to six.。
And the first two verses of the chapter。
give us both the date and the location.。
It says this was just three months。
after they had come out of Egypt,。
when they had reached Mount Sinai。
and camped there at the foot of Mount Sinai.。
And verse three, "Then Moses went up to God,。
"and the Lord called to him from the mountain,"。
Mount Sinai, "and said, 'This is what you are to say。
"'to the descendants of Jacob,。
"'and what you are to tell the people of Israel.。
"'You yourselves have seen what I did to Egypt,。
"'and how I carried you on eagle's wings。
"'and brought you to myself.。
"'Now then, if you will obey me fully and keep my covenant,。
"'then out of all nations,。
"'you will be my treasured possession,。
"'for the whole earth is mine,。
"'and you will be for me a kingdom of priests。
"'and a holy nation.。
"'These are the words you are to speak to the Israelites.'"。
End of quote from verse six.。
So the very first thing that God does here。
is that he points to his own initiative in verse four.。
"You have seen what I have done," says God in verse four.。
In other words, this is the priority of God's grace.。
As I said also earlier about election,。
God redeems his people out of Egypt。
and then talks about obeying him and keeping the covenant.。
Redemption, salvation comes first,。
God's initiative of grace,。
and then obedience as a response to that。
in the keeping of the law.。
And so the motivating power for all that follows,。
including the 10 commandments and the rest of the law,。
is always what God has done for them,。
his redemption from slavery.。
The Exodus becomes the motivating power.。
Why should we keep this law?。
Because God redeemed us out of Egypt.。
That's the theme that flows through the rest of the law.。
But then, and one could go on a lot about that point,。
but then the text there in Exodus 19。
moves on from that backward-looking motivation,。
what God had already done in 18 chapters of salvation,。
moves on to a forward-looking motivation.。
That is what God planned for Israel to be in the world,。
in the midst of the nations.。
Here's my agenda for you, Ezra.。
This is what you will be for me.。
This is a future.。
This is a looking forward.。
It is indeed what we might call a missional perspective,。
because God's plan for his people。
is that they should be a priestly and a holy people。
in the midst of all nations in the whole earth.。
Verse five, which, as I hope you will detect by now,。
has a certain Abrahamic ring about it.。
God had said to Abraham,。
"I'm going to bless all nations in the earth through you."。
And here is Yahweh God, as it were,。
at the top of Mount Sinai,。
saying to the people of Israel, so to speak,。
"From up here," as it were, "in the top,。
"I can see the whole earth, and it's all mine,。
"and all the nations of the earth belong to me."。
But you will have a particular purpose,。
a particular identity and agenda in that world,。
to be a priestly and a holy people.。
Now, that identity of being priestly and holy。
is something which echoes on。
through other parts of the Old Testament,。
and indeed is inherited by us, as Peter says,。
and will still be there in the book of Revelation.。
But we need to ask, what does it mean for Israel。
to be God's priesthood in relation to the nations?。
And in order to understand that,。
we need to ask, well, what were Israel's priests for them?。
How did the priests function?。
And here's one way that I sometimes。
try to illustrate that for you.。
Priests basically were middlemen.。
They stood in between God on the one hand。
and all the rest of the people on the other.。
Sometimes we use the word mediator, or in the middle.。
And in that mediating position between God。
and the rest of the Israelites, they had two main jobs.。
One which we don't often think about。
was that they were to be teachers,。
teachers of God's law to the people.。
That's actually what is said about them。
right at the very ordination of Aaron and his sons.。
The Lord says to Aaron, this is in Leviticus chapter 10,。
he says, "They must distinguish。
"between the holy and the common,。
"the unclean and the clean,。
"so that you can teach the Israelites。
"all the decrees that the Lord has given them through Moses."。
The priests were to be teachers。
so that the people would come to know the ways of God.。
That's also there in the blessing of Moses。
on the tribe of Levi in Deuteronomy chapter 33,。
where it says about Levi, which was the Levites tribe。
that the priests came from,。
he teaches your precepts to Jacob and your law to Israel,。
and he offers incense before you。
and whole burnt offerings on your altar.。
So the teaching function actually comes first,。
that through the priests,。
God would become known to the people,。
which is why when the people went so badly wrong。
in later life of Israel,。
who did the prophets blame?。
The priests.。
That's what Hosea says very clearly.。
He says, "The land,。
"there's no knowledge of God in the land.。
"The land is full of idolatry and stealing and robbery。
"and murder and adultery."。
And then he says, "Who is my quarrel with?。
"Who am I accusing?"。
He says, "It is you, O priest,"。
because the priests were failing to teach the people.。
So that's the first task.。
Through the priests, God would become known to the people.。
And then the other direction, of course,。
that we're perhaps more familiar with。
is that it was the job of the priests。
to bring the sacrifices of the people to God,。
which you read in the first seven chapters of Leviticus.。
So you know this, of course,。
that if you're an Israelite。
and for some reason,。
whether some sin or some uncleanness,。
that you were unable to come into。
the worshiping community of God,。
the temple and so on,。
what would you do?。
Well, you would bring an animal to the sanctuary。
as prescribed in the law.。
You would lay your hand on its head.。
The priest would be then slaughtered。
and the blood of the sacrifice。
would be thrown against the altar representing God.。
And the priest would declare to you。
that your sin is atoned for,。
covered or possibly cleansed.。
The word atone has two possible meanings.。
And so with the sin dealt with through the sacrifice,。
you could then come back。
into covenant fellowship with God.。
And if you offered a fellowship offering,。
as it was called,。
then you're gonna have a barbecue as well。
and enjoy a good family meal with the meat.。
That was what it signified,。
was that you and I back in fellowship。
with God and his people.。
So you can see then that the job of the priest。
was twofold.。
It was bringing God to the people。
and bringing the people to God.。
That was their role within Israel.。
So it's very significant, isn't it?。
That God says to the Israelites as a whole people,。
as a community for him,。
he said, "You will be for me。
"to the rest of the nations。
"what your priests are for you.。
"Through you, my people Israel,。
"I will make myself known to the world.。
"And through you, ultimately,。
"I will draw the world to myself."。
That's what it meant for Israel。
to be God's priesthood in the midst of the nations.。
At least that's part of the meaning.。
There are other ways of thinking of it as well.。
So as the people of Yahweh, God in the Old Testament,。
they would have this task。
of bringing the knowledge of God to the nations,。
which they've done,。
because we've got this book,。
three quarters of which are the scriptures of Israel。
through whom we know the living God.。
So God has made himself known as it were。
through the priesthood of Israel,。
simply being the people that brought us the scriptures.。
And of course, we know that ultimately。
it was through Israel, the Messiah of Israel,。
the Lord Jesus Christ himself,。
that God has drawn the nations to himself, as Jesus put it.。
That I, if I be lifted up, will draw all men to myself.。
In his revelation of God。
and in his atonement, atoning work at the cross,。
God through the Messiah Jesus has made himself known。
and has brought the world to himself.。
So that's the priestly task of this people.。
And even in exile,。
even when they were thrown out of their land。
under God's judgment,。
Jeremiah writes them a letter,。
do you remember, in Jeremiah chapter 29,。
and says that even in the midst of that calamity,。
they were instructed to be a blessing。
to the nation where they were.。
That is not the precise words he uses,。
but it by implication,。
where Jeremiah says in chapter 29, verse seven,。
"Seek the shalom of the city。
"to which I've carried you into exile,。
"Babylon, their enemies.。
"Pray to the Lord for it,。
"because in its shalom is your shalom."。
In other words, you can be a blessing。
even to the people who are your enemies。
in the midst of the nations.。
So that's what I mean by saying。
that it does seem to me that the priesthood of God's people。
is a missional function,。
which stands in continuity with the Abrahamic election。
for the sake of the nations.。
So the mission of God's people。
then includes being this priesthood in and for the world,。
and that fits exactly with the way,。
one way in which the New Testament speaks。
about our mission in the New Testament.。
Certainly it's how the apostle Paul saw his task.。
Here I'm quoting from Romans chapter 15.。
Where Paul reminds the Romans, he says,。
"I want to remind you of the grace that God gave to me。
"to be a minister of the Messiah, Christ Jesus,。
"to the Gentiles, to the nations."。
So he's a minister of the Messiah to the nations.。
"He gave me the priestly duty。
"of proclaiming the gospel of God。
"so that the Gentiles, the nations,。
"might become an offering acceptable to God,。
"sanctified by the Holy Spirit."。
It's a fascinating verse.。
In fact, it's the only verse in the New Testament。
where anybody speaks about their personal work。
in priestly terms.。
The pastors in the church,。
they're called pastors or elders or shepherds,。
but not specifically priests.。
But Paul says he had a priestly job to do.。
Now, Paul could never have functioned as a priest。
in Jerusalem, in the temple,。
because he was the wrong tribe, wasn't he?。
Saul of Tarsus was of the tribe of Benjamin, not of Levi.。
But he says, "Yes, but I had a priestly job."。
Not in some ordained function, as it were,。
within the church,。
but precisely in his evangelistic work among the nations.。
He says, "Through my role, my lifetime's work。
"was to bring God to the nations。
"in order to bring the nations to God."。
That's a priestly function.。
I don't know whether he had this verse。
from Exodus in mind when he wrote that。
or whether it was just, as it were,。
part of the furniture and assumptions of his mind,。
that his evangelism was effectively priestly work,。
bringing the knowledge of God, the gospel, to the nations。
so that the nations could come to God.。
And we might think, "Wow, that's all very well.。
"That was the apostle Paul.。
"He was an apostle.。
"He was a missionary.。
"I'm just an ordinary Christian."。
Well, we don't get off quite so easily。
because, as the text says on the screen,。
the apostle Peter applies precisely this very same verse,。
Exodus 19, verse six, to all believers,。
writing almost certainly to a mixture。
of both Jewish and Gentile believers。
who were scattered across the various provinces。
of Asia Minor where the churches were in his day.。
And you notice how in 1 Peter 2, verses nine to 12,。
Peter combines a number of Old Testament references,。
including Exodus 19, verse six,。
and insists that this is how we, we Christian believers,。
are to live among the nations.。
They're fairly familiar verses, but I'll read them anyway.。
Peter says, "You," plural, "You are a chosen people,。
"a royal priesthood, a holy nation," is Exodus 19,。
"God's special possession, that you may declare。
"the praises of him who called you out of darkness。
"into his wonderful light."。
There's the Exodus imagery again, "out of, into."。
"Once you were not a people, now you are the people of God."。
That's Hosea.。
"Once you had not received mercy,。
"but now you have received mercy."。
So therefore, dear friends, on the basis of that,。
unfortunately, many of our English Bibles。
put a paragraph division in there with another heading,。
which is a shame because it spoils。
the flow of Peter's thought.。
He says, "This is who you are,。
"this is what you've experienced,。
"therefore I urge you as foreigners in exiles。
"to abstain from sinful desires。
"which war against your soul,。
"and to live such good lives among the nations."。
And again, our English Bibles sometimes say,。
"Among the pagans, or the heathen," or something,。
but it is among entwise ethnicities, among the nations.。
It's Genesis language.。
"So that even though they accuse you of doing wrong,。
"they may see your good deeds and glorify God。
"on the day he visits us."。
Where Peter is echoing the Lord Jesus Christ himself.。
"You," says Peter, "you are that priesthood."。
You, we, we are meant to be God's representatives。
among the nations, to be the living proof。
of the living God, to bring God to people。
and to bring people to God.。
That's our priestly mission.。
And how do we do that?。
Well, of course, we can only do that。
by the second phrase that Moses used,。
that is, not only by being a priestly kingdom,。
but by being a holy people.。
And that's what we will think of tomorrow,。
if you can come back for lecture number three,。
when we ask about how then should we live,。
what are the ethical standards of being a holy people?。
So that's therefore missional blessing。
and missional priesthood.。
I think there are just two other ones。
that I want to put before us,。
and that is witnesses and servants.。
They occur actually together in one verse.。
In Isaiah chapter 43, verses nine to 11,。
this is what we read.。
God says to the Israelites,。
says, "You are my witnesses, declares the Lord,。
"and my servant whom I have chosen."。
And I just want us to think about each of those two words.。
Now, the context of those verses there in Isaiah chapter 49。
are, of course, that Israel had been in exile in Babylon,。
and many of them had completely lost hope。
for any future for themselves。
or indeed for the purposes of God.。
You know from Ezekiel, for example, chapter 37,。
that the Israelites in exile thought of themselves。
as dead bones in the grave.。
We might as well be finished.。
There's no more future for us.。
But God's word through these chapters of Isaiah。
repeatedly reassures them that God's purposes go on,。
and that God still has a place within them,。
and that their mission was to bear witness to Yahweh,。
the God of Israel, as being the only true and living God,。
that they were God's servant。
in order to bear witness to the living God.。
So missional witness.。
You see, as again, you probably know。
if you've done some Old Testament study。
and read these chapters of Isaiah,。
that there's a great kind of conflict going on。
in these chapters between Yahweh, the God of Israel,。
and the other nations and their gods.。
It's like a kind of court case。
that's happening between them.。
And in Isaiah chapter 43, verse nine,。
there's a great assembly of the nations pictured.。
It's like a sort of great court.。
Here's Isaiah 43, verse nine.。
All the nations gather together and the peoples assemble.。
Which of their gods foretold all this。
and proclaimed to us the former things?。
Now you see, God has been saying earlier。
that he was the God who had predicted the exile。
and he was the God who had explained it。
and interpreted it in the past.。
So which of their gods did that?。
Let them bring in their witnesses。
to prove that they were right。
so that others may hear and say, "Oh yeah, yeah,。
that's right."。
So there's this sense in which,。
in this assembly of the nations with their gods,。
who and how will we decide which God or gods is real?。
Which God is right?。
Now, Yahweh, the God of Israel,。
has made his claim to be the only true God。
in all the way through these earlier chapters。
by his ability precisely to predict the future,。
to interpret the past, and to explain the present,。
that he's the sovereign God of all these things.。
So the other nations then, the other gods rather,。
the other gods are invited to bring in their witnesses。
if they can prove that they're any better。
or even anywhere near as good.。
Now, who are the witnesses of the other gods?。
Well, the other nations, but they don't say anything。
'cause they've got nothing to say。
because their gods are weak and powerless。
and less than nothing.。
So then, okay, who's left?。
Yahweh God.。
So who will speak for him。
in this international court of nations and gods?。
Who will testify to the power, the existence,。
the reality of Yahweh as God?。
Who?。
God says, verse 10, "You."。
"You are my witnesses," declares the Lord.。
You Israelites, you are my witnesses。
and my servant whom I have chosen.。
In other words, this is God saying to Israel,。
you know, you're in exile, but you're still my witnesses.。
In fact, it's actually very surprising。
because God had just described Israel。
in the previous chapter, the Israelites in exile,。
as blind and deaf.。
And there's not, with all due charity,。
not a lot of point bringing into a courtroom。
as a witness someone who couldn't see anything。
and can't hear anything.。
Blind and deaf is sort of precisely。
not what you want in a witness.。
And the reason, of course, why the Israelites。
were blind and deaf, as it says in chapter 42,。
is because they had rejected God's words。
and his warnings in the past。
and he had had to drive them into judgment.。
But now, by his restoring grace,。
by the miracle of a new exodus,。
which was just around the corner,。
God says, you're going back,。
back to your original Abrahamic mission。
in the midst of the nations.。
And when I've restored you, you will bear witness。
to the saving God of Israel once more.。
God's people must be witnesses for their God.。
That is a major missional responsibility.。
You are my witnesses, says God.。
Now, the word itself is a significant one.。
In Old Testament Israel, just being a witness of anything。
was a very serious responsibility,。
especially in a courtroom or in the gate in the city。
where the cases were discussed.。
In fact, there are a number of significant laws。
in Old Testament law about the importance。
of being a truthful witness。
and how serious it was to be a false witness.。
In fact, one of the Ten Commandments is exactly that.。
You shall not bear false witness.。
Another thing, of course, is that bribery was hated。
because bribery would twist people to tell untruths.。
And indeed, the Old Testament law。
had about the most severe perjury law。
anywhere in the world, even today.。
If you gave false witness in court。
and it could then be proved that you had,。
then you would be punished with whatever punishment。
the person that you were falsely accusing would have got。
if your witness had been believed,。
even up to the death penalty.。
So if you mistakenly accused somebody of something。
for which they could be executed。
and you were shown to have told the untruth,。
you would be executed.。
Now, that's pretty severe.。
It's a very deterrent law.。
It shows how seriously God took the importance。
of being a true and truthful witness.。
The integrity and the truthfulness of witness。
was important in Old Testament society.。
So here you see God is calling the Israelites。
to exercise in the international arena。
of nations and gods a responsibility。
that was deeply rooted in their own social culture,。
the task of bearing witness.。
Now, what would it be that the Israelites。
were to bear witness to?。
Well, these verses that we are just starting on,。
spell it out.。
Let me now read to you what they were to bear witness to.。
This is Isaiah chapter 43, verses nine to 13.。
"You are my witnesses, declared the Lord,。
"and my servant whom I have chosen,。
"so that you may know and believe me。
"and understand that I am he, I am God alone.。
"Before me no god was formed, nor will there be one after me."。
I'm not a temporary god, in other words,。
alpha and omega kind of thing.。
"I, even I, am the Lord, and apart from me。
"there is no savior.。
"I have revealed and saved and proclaimed.。
"I am not some foreign god among you.。
"So you are my witnesses, declares the Lord,。
"that I am God."。
It's a wonderful language.。
Israel then is being called to bear witness。
to several great foundational truths。
about Yahweh, the God of Israel,。
all of which we will see in a moment。
apply to Jesus Christ when you get to the New Testament,。
and therefore help us to understand。
what it means for us to be witnesses to Jesus.。
The three things that are clear in this text are,。
first of all, Israel was to bear witness。
that Yahweh alone is the transcendent, eternal God.。
I am he, I am God.。
There's no other God.。
He is the transcendent, eternal, living God.。
There's none before, none to come after.。
That's Old Testament monotheism.。
It's not just saying there's only one God.。
It doesn't really matter which God you have,。
as long as you've only got one.。
No, this is saying not only is there only one God,。
this is who he is.。
It's the identity of the living God.。
Secondly, that Yahweh alone。
is in sovereign control of history.。
I have revealed and saved and proclaimed.。
This, again, is recollecting the story of the Exodus,。
that God revealed it, this is what he's gonna do,。
then he did it, then he interpreted it,。
then he explained it, and teaches his people.。
And only the God who is in control of events。
can do all of those things,。
can say this is what's gonna happen,。
that's what just happened, this is why it happened.。
God interprets, explains.。
It's the author of the story who controls the story.。
God is sovereign in history.。
And that Yahweh alone is not only God and sovereign,。
but also savior.。
The I alone and the God who say。
there is no other savior than the living God.。
That, indeed, is his name.。
He is the God, then, whose righteousness。
had sent the Israelites into exile,。
and it's the same God whose righteousness。
will deliver them from exile.。
There is no other saving God,。
because there is no other God, period.。
You, said God to the Israelites,。
you are my witnesses that I am God.。
You, said Jesus twice to his disciples,。
the risen Jesus to his disciples,。
you will be my witnesses.。
Luke makes that phrase by Jesus。
a kind of verbal Velcro between the end of his gospel。
and the beginning of Acts.。
It's there in Luke chapter 24, in the day of resurrection,。
where Jesus says, you know what the scriptures have said.。
This is what is written.。
Messiah will come and suffer and rise again on the third day。
that repentance and forgiveness of sins。
will be preached in his name to all the nations,。
and you are witnesses of these things.。
And then also in Acts chapter one, verse eight,。
on the day of his ascension,。
where Jesus says to the disciples before he left,。
you will be my witnesses,。
Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.。
And I have no doubt in my mind anyway,。
that Jesus was consciously echoing this text from Isaiah 43,。
that just as Yahweh, God of Israel,。
had said to the Israelites,。
you are my witnesses in the world of the nations,。
so Jesus, the risen Christ, now calls his disciples。
to do the same task,。
to bear witness to the living God among the nations.。
Because after all, what greater truth could there be。
in the universe than the identity of Jesus of Nazareth。
as the living God who has come and lived among us?。
The sovereignty of Jesus as Lord,。
he is the Lord Jesus Christ,。
not kurios kaisar, Caesar is Lord, but Jesus is Lord,。
they went out into the world to say.。
And that he is the one and only savior,。
that there is no other name given among men under heaven。
by which we must be saved than the name of Jesus himself.。
So he alone is God and Lord and savior,。
and we are his witnesses.。
That's why it seems to me on the Mount of Ascension。
that Jesus says these amazing words。
that Matthew records in Matthew 28.。
He almost, in his way, Matthew tells us。
that when they came to Jesus at the Mount of Ascension,。
they worshipped him, though some doubted.。
He's very honest about that.。
Not everybody was convinced.。
But for those who worshipped Jesus, this is Jesus,。
this is Jesus of Nazareth, the carpenter's son,。
the man they'd walked around with for three years.。
And these were Jews who knew that they must not worship。
anybody or anything but the living God.。
But before the risen crucified Jesus, they worshipped him.。
And Jesus accepts it, and he assumes the Yahweh position。
and claims all authority in heaven and on earth。
has been given to me.。
And those men and women who were there。
would almost certainly have heard the echo。
of Deuteronomy again,。
acknowledge and take to heart this day。
that the Lord is God in heaven above。
and on the earth below.。
There is no other, Deuteronomy 4, verse 39.。
It's as if Jesus is saying to his disciples,。
look, guys, now you know who I am,。
that this God you worshipped all your lives,。
Yahweh God, the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel,。
has been walking among you。
in the flesh of Jesus of Nazareth.。
And also that Jesus has accomplished。
all that Yahweh, the God of Israel,。
said he would accomplish。
to bring about the salvation of the world.。
So you know that I am he,。
and therefore you are my witnesses of these things,。
of my life, my teaching, my death, my resurrection.。
So how then will the nations come to know。
what God has done through the Lord Jesus Christ?。
How will the nations come to that Abrahamic blessing。
of the saving knowledge of these truths。
about the living God?。
You are my witnesses, says Jesus.。
You now stand in the place of Israel,。
bearing witness to the living God。
and his son, the Lord Jesus Christ,。
and all he has accomplished.。
And so once again, that seems to me。
that we seem that one of these primary dimensions。
of what it means to be a Christian,。
namely that we are called to bear witness。
to the Lord Jesus Christ,。
is deeply, deeply rooted in the soil of Old Testament Israel。
and the identity and mission that was entrusted to them.。
So blessing and priesthood and witness,。
and last of all, in the same verse, missional servanthood.。
That's the other phrase that's there in Isaiah 43, verse nine,。
you will be my witnesses and my servant whom I've chosen.。
Now that word there in chapter 43。
actually repeats what God had said to the Israelites。
in chapter 41, that's on the screen,。
where God had said to Isaiah chapter 41,。
you Israel, my servant, Jacob whom I've chosen,。
you descendants of Abraham, my friend, lovely word,。
I took you from the ends of the earth,。
from its farthest corners I called you,。
and I said, you are my servant, I have chosen you,。
I've not rejected you, so don't be afraid,。
I'm with you, and so on.。
So back there in Isaiah 41,。
Israel is identified as God's servant.。
But there's a massive problem I referred to earlier for God,。
was that at this precise moment,。
Israel was in exile under God's judgment,。
a failed, disobedient, blind, deaf servant,。
as God says to them, hear you deaf, look you blind,。
and see who is blind but my servant,。
and deaf like the messenger I send,。
who is blind like the one supposedly in covenant with me,。
blind like the servant of the Lord,。
and he goes on, this is chapter 42,。
who handed over Jacob to become loot,。
and Israel to the plunderers,。
was it not the Lord against whom we have sinned?。
For they would not follow his ways,。
they didn't obey his law,。
so he poured out on them his burning anger,。
and the violence of war, and so on.。
And so here is Israel called to be the servant of God,。
but languishing in exile.。
But, says God, he introduces the servant of the Lord。
in chapter 42, and as again,。
you possibly know if you studied these chapters,。
that theme of this servant of the Lord。
flows through these chapters in a mysterious way,。
as both being in a sense Israel,。
but also being an individual who has a mission to Israel,。
and indeed through Israel for the nations,。
because in chapter 42,。
he's going to bring justice to the nations.。
But, then that becomes not enough,。
because this is chapter 49,。
the Lord says, he who formed me in the womb。
to be his servant, to bring Jacob back to him,。
to gather Israel to himself.。
So, the servant of the Lord has a mission to Israel,。
to bring Israel back to God.。
But, in chapter 49, the servant seems to be struggling,。
because he says, I have labored in vain,。
I spent my strength for nothing at all.。
He has this sense of frustration,。
and it gets worse in chapter 50,。
where the servant experiences rejection, and abuse,。
and people are plucking out his beard and stuff.。
So, it almost seems as if the servant's mission。
is failing in frustration and opposition.。
And then God answers him in chapter 49。
with a very startling word.。
The Lord says to me, in answer to that,。
it's too small a thing for you to be my servant,。
just to restore the tribes of Jacob,。
and to bring back those of Israel that I've kept.。
I will also make you a light to the Gentiles,。
to the nations, that my salvation。
may reach the ends of the earth.。
I don't know if you've ever had God do that to you.。
You know, you complain to God,。
oh, this is far too hard, I can't do this.。
He goes, oh, really?。
Well, let me give you something harder.。
God sometimes does that, that's what he does to the servant.。
He's going to bring Israel back to God,。
but also bring the salvation of God to the nations.。
So, to sum this up, this servant language then,。
Israel as a people was a servant of God,。
chosen, upheld by him,。
in order to be a light to the nations.。
But, historically, in exile, Israel was failing。
in that role, in that mission.。
Israel as the servant was blind and deaf,。
and under God's judgment.。
So, this individual servant figure,。
mysteriously in the prophet,。
is at one level distinct from Israel,。
because he has a mission to them,。
and yet, at another level, is somehow identified with Israel.。
Same language is used of both.。
So, that the servant figure will actually fulfill。
the original mission of Israel itself,。
that is, to bring the salvation, the justice,。
the liberation of God to the ends of the earth。
and to all the nations.。
The universal purpose of the election of Israel。
will be accomplished through the servant of Israel.。
Now, when we come to the New Testament,。
there's abundant evidence, which I won't try to go into,。
to suggest that Jesus saw himself in that identity。
as the servant of the Lord in the text of Isaiah.。
For example, when he says, "I came not to be served,。
"but to serve," or "I am among you as the one who serves,"。
and he quotes Isaiah 53, "the Last Supper," and so on.。
Haven't time to go there.。
But that mission of the servant in the Messiah Jesus,。
which he quotes, doesn't end with Jesus himself,。
because what we then discover is that the apostle Paul。
reflected very deeply on these texts。
also in his mission to the nations.。
He saw theologically a link between Jesus。
being the servant who was sent to Israel, on the one hand,。
and the ingathering of the nations with great rejoicing。
to the people of God, on the other hand.。
He saw them linked together.。
That, indeed, is how he brings his letter to the Romans。
to a climax, climax which we sometimes ignore,。
but it's actually very important in chapter 15,。
where Paul has been saying to the Jewish。
and Gentile believers in chapters 14 through to 15.7,。
he's been telling them, Jews and Gentiles in Christ,。
that they must accept one another.。
So he says, and now quoting from Romans 15, verse seven,。
"Accept one another then, just as Christ, Messiah,。
"accepted you in order to bring praise to God.。
"For," he says, "I tell you, Christ, the Messiah,。
"has become a servant, the servant of the Jews,。
"on behalf of God's truth, so that," there's the purpose,。
"so that the promises made to the patriarchs,"。
i.e. to Abraham, "might be confirmed.。
"Moreover, that the nations might glorify God。
"for his mercy, as it is written,"。
and then he quotes four Old Testament texts.。
"Therefore, I will praise you among the Gentiles。
"and sing praises of your name."。
Again, it says, "Rejoice, you Gentiles, with his people."。
And again, "Praise the Lord, all you Gentiles,。
"that all the peoples extol him."。
And again, Isaiah, "The root of Jesse will spring up。
"and he will rule over the nations,。
"and in him the Gentiles will hope."。
Four texts from the law, the prophets, and the writings,。
all of them speaking about God's ultimate purpose,。
that the nations, the Gentiles,。
will come to rejoice and praise God.。
And Paul says all of that, in a sense,。
is the fulfillment of the fact。
that Jesus became the servant of Israel.。
He was the servant so that the glory of God。
and the praise of God could go to the nations.。
That's how he ends Romans.。
It's the climax he brings it to.。
And of course, Paul could do this。
because this had been part of his calling。
at the very beginning.。
In Acts 26, verse 16, he knew that he had been called。
to be a servant and a witness.。
The very words that Jesus spoke to him echoed that.。
Here's what Jesus said to Saul of Tarsus,。
as he still was on the road to Damascus.。
"Get up, stand on your feet.。
"I have appeared to you to appoint you,"。
Paul, Saul of Tarsus, "as a servant and as a witness。
"of what you have seen and will see of me.。
"I will rescue you from your own people。
"and from the Gentiles.。
"I'm sending you to them," the nation, the Gentiles,。
"to open their eyes and turn them from darkness to light。
"and from the power of Satan to God。
"so that they may receive forgiveness of sins。
"and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me."。
Paul himself was commissioned to be servant and witness.。
And that's why when Paul was in a synagogue。
in Pisidian, Antioch, and he had given。
the whole history of Israel in about seven verses。
to the people there and led it from Abraham。
right up to Jesus and said,。
"This is what has now been fulfilled."。
And some of the Jews believed him and some would not.。
And the following Sabbath, they came back。
and some of them opposed him.。
And Paul, what he does is that he takes this text。
from Isaiah, which of course he knew。
had been fulfilled by Jesus, and he applies it to himself。
and his little band of missionary friends.。
He moves from Jesus as the true son of David and Messiah。
and his resurrection through to the God-fearing Gentiles。
in the audience.。
This is his words, Acts 13.。
"We now turn to the Gentiles,。
"for this is what the Lord has commanded us," he says.。
Quote, "I have made you a light for the Gentiles。
"that you may bring my salvation to the ends of the earth."。
That's what God has commanded us, says Paul.。
And we've been doing our exegesis and hermeneutics class.。
We might say, "Oh, just a minute, Paul.。
"Isaiah actually said that about Old Testament Israel."。
Paul said, "Yeah, I know that."。
And Jesus, we understand, Jesus applied the language。
of the servant to himself.。
And Paul said, "Yeah, I know that too.。
"I've just said it," in chapter 15.。
But here, Paul says that this command of the servant。
to Israel through Jesus is now also explicitly。
the command for God's people.。
We are to be that servant people,。
bringing the light of God to the nations.。
It is a missional text for the church,。
as the servant of the Lord bearing witness to him.。
So there we are.。
Once again, I hope what we've seen is that。
in the scriptures of Israel and the Old Testament,。
we find some essential understandings of what it means,。
not just to be the people of God,。
but for the purpose for which we are the people of God,。
rooted in God's missional purpose for Israel.。
Like them, we are called in partnership with God。
for the nations and to the nations to be a blessing,。
to be a priesthood, to be a witness, and to be God's servant.。
May God help us to do that.。
For his name's sake, amen.。
(audience applauding)。
(gentle piano music)。
(gentle piano music)。
(gentle piano music)。
(gentle music)。
