(soft piano music)。
- Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen,。
fellow Christian brothers and sisters,。
gathered greetings in our Lord Jesus Christ to you all.。
Welcome to join us in our CJSC Josephine Stoll。
Culture and Ethics Lecture.。
What a wonderful moment to have us all back here。
gathering together in person for lectures.。
My name is Grace L, your host this afternoon.。
Since 1985, CJSC has been hosting this lecture series。
on a biannual basis to commemorate Josephine Stoll,。
an influential Christian thinker and leader in Hong Kong。
after her untimely death in 1982.。
This year, our lecture series is entitled,。
"Written for Us, the Old Testament as Christian Scripture."。
It is said to take a look at how the scripture,。
in particular, the Old Testament,。
is relevant to us as Christians today.。
And it is our honor to have Dr. Christopher Wright。
as our distinguished and keynote speaker.。
Dr. Wright is the global ambassador。
and ministry director of Langham Partnership.。
He is also a prolific writer.。
He has numerous profound publications,。
"The Mission of God," "Cultivating the Fruits of the Spirit,"。
"Old Testament Ethics for the People of God,"。
just to give you a few examples.。
As you can see from this book list,。
Dr. Wright's passion to bring to life。
the relevance of the Old Testament。
for Christian mission and ethics is more than obvious.。
Following the first two lectures。
on Christian identity and mission,。
this afternoon, Dr. Wright will deliver the third lecture。
entitled, "The Old Testament and Christian Ethics,。
"How Should We Live?"。
Without further ado, please join me。
in welcoming Dr. Christopher Wright.。
- Thank you, Dr. Ah.。
That was a very kind and warm welcome.。
And it's lovely to be here on a sunny day today.。
It's not quite like London,。
but still very, very much more like the Hong Kong。
that I remember from previous visits.。
Let me again, as I did yesterday,。
just in case you're here today, this afternoon,。
for the first time, say that I bring greetings。
from my home church of All Souls Church,。
Langham Place in London,。
from which the Langham Foundation gets its name,。
from that street in London where John Stott。
used to live and minister,。
and founded the Langham Partnership,。
which is here in Hong Kong, known as Langham Foundation.。
So greetings to you from us and from them.。
So now, as I said, we are moving today。
into the third of our lectures in this topic.。
And in our first lecture, as you remember,。
we saw how our Christian identity is deeply rooted。
and shaped by the identity of Israel in the Old Testament.。
And in Christ, we, the multinational community of believers,。
Jews and Gentiles, Paul says, are the seed of Abraham.。
And we observed in that lecture。
how there are various metaphors。
within that great story of Israel,。
which describe them as a people,。
which are then picked up in the New Testament。
and applied with Christ-centered significance。
to God's people in all nations.。
And then in our second lecture,。
we saw how that identity of Israel。
generated a missional purpose of being a people。
who are created and called by Yahweh, their God,。
to be something for him in the world.。
God had declared his intention to Abraham。
to bring blessing to all nations on earth through him.。
And when we turn to the New Testament,。
we saw that our mission, as we think of it。
as Christian people, derives ultimately from God's mission,。
God's objective of bringing blessing to the world.。
And therefore, our mission includes being a blessing,。
serving, witnessing, terms which all go back。
to the scriptures.。
And so today then, in our third lecture,。
we are seeing how that missional identity of Israel。
generated a distinctive ethic.。
That's to say, Israel was not just to be the people of God,。
but to live as the people of God。
in ways that would reflect the character。
and the demands of Yahweh, their God, in everyday life,。
in the ordinary things of life as a nation.。
And what we're going to observe today。
is that this powerfully ethical dimension。
of Israel's faith in the Old Testament。
became the motivation, the source, the impact。
for what is written for our learning。
as we also strive to walk in the ways of the Lord.。
And once again, what we're going to do today。
is to follow the same pathway。
that we did in our last two lectures,。
which is to see the trajectory of Israel's journey with God。
through election, chosen in Abraham, in Genesis,。
through the story of redemption in the Exodus,。
in the book of Exodus,。
and then to the covenant that God made with Israel。
at Mount Sinai, and to have a look。
at the book of Deuteronomy.。
So first of all then, Abraham and election。
and missional ethics.。
This phrase, missional ethics,。
is really just my shorthand way of trying to say。
living as God's people for the sake of God's mission.。
We are to be living in a certain way,。
that's ethics for the sake of mission.。
So missional ethics just means that,。
and here we're thinking of Abraham and election.。
Because we saw, didn't we, right in our first lecture,。
that our identity goes right back to Abraham。
because it is through him and through the Lord Jesus Christ。
that we are the seed of Abraham.。
And therefore that sense of being a blessing。
to the nations comes from him.。
What we see now is that God's election of his people。
through Abraham was not only a missional thing。
for the sake of the nations,。
but had an explicitly ethical intention.。
And the text that I want us to focus on here,。
as you can see on the screen,。
is another one from Exodus, from Genesis,。
but not this time chapter 12,。
but chapter 18, verses 18 and 19,。
where God says this.。
This is God actually speaking to himself in Genesis 18.。
God says, "Abraham will indeed become。
a great and mighty nation,。
and all nations on earth will find blessing through him."。
This is my own translation.。
"For I have known or chosen him for the purpose that,。
for the sake and in order that,。
he will teach his sons and his household after him。
so that they will keep the way of Yahweh,。
the way of the Lord, by doing righteousness and justice,。
for the purpose that, in order that,。
Yahweh can bring about for Abraham。
what he has promised to him."。
That's the verse that I want us to concentrate on。
in this first part of the lecture.。
Now, this little divine soliloquy,。
God talking to himself,。
comes in the middle of a narrative。
which really spans chapters 18 and 19。
of the book of Genesis.。
It's the story of God's judgment on Sodom and Gomorrah.。
And in the context of that,。
God has a meal with Abraham and Sarah,。
and then makes this renewed promise of blessing。
that they would have a son,。
and the purpose of that,。
which is to bring blessing to all nations.。
So this, in many ways, is a reminder by God。
to God's own self,。
it's a kind of note to self by God,。
in the story of his original purpose in choosing Abraham,。
but in the context of bringing judgment。
on Sodom and Gomorrah.。
So we need to think, first of all,。
for a moment or two,。
about that aspect of these chapters,。
which is that Sodom stands here。
very much as a picture of our world.。
And I always use the word Sodom,。
I mean Sodom and Gomorrah,。
I'm talking about those both cities,。
but just for short, speaking of Sodom.。
Now, as you know, Sodom and Gomorrah。
stand in the scripture as a kind of prototype,。
a proverbial prototype of human wickedness,。
and of the judgment of God。
that will ultimately fall upon evildoers.。
But it's quite important,。
because the word Sodom has been used in a particular way。
in the West, in Western culture and biblical history,。
to recognize that the Bible portrays。
the sin of Sodom and Gomorrah in a very broad way.。
Here in this chapter, in verses 20 and 21,。
immediately after our verse,。
the Lord says, "The outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah。
"is so great, and their sin is so grievous,。
"that I will go down and see if what they have done。
"is as bad as the outcry that has reached me."。
Now, that word coming twice there in verses 20 and 21。
is the Hebrew word tza'akah,。
which is one of those onomatopoeic words,。
and it means what it sounds like.。
It is a cry for pain, ah!。
It's a yell, a scream, a technical word, indeed,。
is used in a number of places in the Old Testament。
of a cry for help from someone who is suffering,。
either blows or cruelty or oppression,。
or indeed, sexual assault,。
as in the case of a woman being raped。
in the book of Deuteronomy.。
It's a cry for pain.。
Now, earlier in the book of Genesis, in chapter 13,。
we read that, quote, "The men of Sodom were wicked。
"and were sinning greatly against the Lord."。
So we've already been told that in chapter 13,。
and here we're told that the sin specifically。
is that of what was causing an outcry,。
the oppression, the suffering, the cruelty。
that was happening in the city.。
Some people in Sodom and Gomorrah are crying out。
against that, and God hears it.。
He says, "I've heard that, and I'm coming down。
"to see if it's as bad as it sounds."。
Then, of course, as we move on into Genesis chapter 19,。
we read further of the hostile, violent, attempted rape。
by, quote, "All the men from every part of the city。
"of Sodom, both young and old," all of them,。
"on the two men," who are actually angels,。
but the two apparently men who had come。
to the home of Lot and his family.。
That's in chapter 19, the violent, attempted rape.。
The prophets go even further in describing。
the sin of Sodom.。
Isaiah, for example, accuses Jerusalem and says,。
"If the Lord had not spared us," he says,。
"we would have been like Sodom.。
"We would have been like Gomorrah."。
And you can hear the kind of protest。
that would have come to that.。
Who are you calling Sodom and Gomorrah?。
We're Jerusalem.。
So verse 10, Isaiah chapter one, verse 10,。
"Hear the word of the Lord, you rulers of Sodom.。
"Listen to the instruction of our God,。
"you people of Gomorrah."。
That's Isaiah talking to the people。
of Israel and Jerusalem.。
Why?。
Well, you read the rest of the chapter。
and he's condemning them for their bloodshed,。
their corruption, their injustice,。
their failure to help the poor and needy.。
That's what made them like Sodom and Gomorrah.。
That's Isaiah chapter one.。
And Ezekiel is even more caustic。
in the way he describes the Israelites,。
in fact, the Northern Kingdom,。
of being even worse than Sodom and Gomorrah.。
This is Ezekiel chapter 16, verse 49.。
He says, "This was the sin of your sister Sodom.。
"She and her daughters,"。
that means the villages, the towns around the city,。
"they were arrogant, overfed, unconcerned.。
"They did not help the poor and needy."。
Sodom's sin, says Ezekiel, was arrogance,。
affluence, and callousness to the needy,。
overproud, overfed, and underconcerned.。
It's a very modern-sounding list of accusations.。
So that's why, when you put all that together,。
that Sodom stands as a kind of model。
or a picture or paradigm of human society at its worst。
and the inevitable consequences of God's judgment。
that falls upon that.。
It was a place that was full of oppression,。
cruelty, violent sexual abuse, idolatry,。
pride, greedy consumption,。
but empty of compassion and care for the needy.。
And that's a picture, surely,。
of the world that we still live in.。
And it's precisely that world that God comes to。
in both judgment, but also, remarkably,。
in redemption in relation to Lot,。
but also what he now says to Abraham.。
And it's on his way to bring judgment onto that world。
that God stops off for a meal with Abraham and Sarah.。
God didn't need to do that, did he?。
I mean, he could've just zapped down from heaven to Sodom。
and do what he did, but he stops.。
He pauses on the way and renews his promise。
to Abraham and Sarah that they will have a son next year.。
They'd been waiting for 25 years already,。
so that's what made Sarah laugh a bit.。
And God says, "Why did you laugh?"。
"No, I didn't."。
"Yes, you did."。
"No, you didn't," and so on.。
It's a wonderfully told narrative.。
So here, you see, is God on his way to judgment,。
who stops to remind himself of his ultimate purpose。
of blessing to all nations through this elderly couple,。
Abraham and Sarah, who haven't yet had a child at all.。
So we need to see what God says here now。
in these verses that we're looking at。
in that context of God's ultimate judgment。
on the world of Sodom, but with his purpose。
of bringing redemption into the world。
through the children of Abraham.。
And that brings us, therefore, to the next point。
that I want to bring from these verses,。
which is the way of the Lord, as we read there,。
as a model or a picture for God's people。
and for how they're to live.。
Coming back now to Genesis 18, verse 19.。
Let me read it to you again.。
God says, "I have chosen him," that is Abraham,。
"so that he will direct his children。
"and his household after him to keep the way of the Lord。
"by doing righteousness and justice,。
"so that the Lord will bring about for Abraham。
"what he has promised him."。
But what has God promised him?。
To bring blessing to all the nations.。
It's in the previous verse.。
That's why God chose Abraham。
to bring blessing to the nations.。
So you have election on one side, I have chosen him,。
and you have mission at the end of the verse。
to bring blessing to the nations, that's God's promise,。
and right in the middle comes this ethical component。
of the whole thing, the way of the Lord,。
doing righteousness and justice.。
God says that he's chosen Abraham to be a teacher,。
to be an instructor in the ways of the Lord。
and a teacher of righteousness and justice.。
Both of those phrases, the way of the Lord。
and righteousness and justice,。
are worth just pausing with for a moment.。
If you'd asked the average Old Testament Israelite,。
"Can you tell me about Old Testament ethics?"。
They wouldn't have said,。
"Well, you need to read the book by Chris Wright."。
They'd probably have looked very blank。
and not known what you were talking about.。
But if you'd asked them,。
"Can you tell me about the way of the Lord?"。
They'd say, "Ah, now I know what you mean."。
Because that was a common expression in the Old Testament。
for a life lived in righteous obedience to God's law,。
in faithful obedience to God.。
You get a lot of it in the Psalms and elsewhere.。
And the way of the Lord implies a contrast.。
It's walking in Yahweh's way。
as distinct from the way of other gods。
or of other nations or of oneself。
or the way of sinners, as for example in Psalm 1.。
Walk in Yahweh's way.。
And in this verse, of course, this context,。
the contrast is very clear。
between the way of Yahweh the Lord。
and the way of Sodom that immediately follows it.。
So walking in the way of the Lord。
means something different。
from the world that God is about to judge.。
As a metaphor, it seems to have had。
two possible ways of understanding it,。
which were more or less complementary.。
One, to walk in somebody's way means to follow them.。
You watch their footsteps, you watch where they're going,。
and you follow their way.。
It's an aspect of imitation of God.。
You observe what Yahweh is like,。
and you try to do the same.。
You follow suit, follow in his footsteps, as it were.。
Or it can be taken more in the way of an instruction.。
You ask somebody, "What is the way to that place?"。
And they say, "Well, follow this road.。
Go there. Don't turn that way.。
Don't turn that. Go this way."。
You follow the instructions to the way that they tell you。
without turning off to the left or the right。
to what might be a wrong way or a dangerous way.。
And those two ideas go well together, I think,。
for what the Israelites meant by obedience to the law of God。
to reflect the character of God。
and to follow the instructions of God.。
The two go together.。
A very good example of this, I think,。
comes in the book of Deuteronomy 10,。
where Moses, in the text,。
is kind of summarizing what God really wants.。
Like many a preacher, they say,。
"Well, what is it really all about?。
What does it all boil down to?。
What's the bottom line?"。
And so in Deuteronomy 10, verse 12,。
we read, "Now, Israel,。
what does the Lord your God ask of you。
but, one, to fear the Lord your God,。
to walk in all his ways,。
to love him, serve him, and observe his commands?"。
That's all God wants, okay?。
That's all it is, just those five things,。
fear, walk, love, serve, and obey.。
And there you see that expression,。
"to walk in the ways of the Lord."。
In my NIV, it says, "to walk in obedience to him."。
It's actually, "walk in the ways of the Lord."。
So what are the ways of the Lord?。
You can imagine some Israelite asking.。
That's all very well.。
We'll try to do that,。
but tell us, what are the ways of the Lord?。
So a little bit later in the same chapter,。
just a couple of verses later,。
this is what Yahweh is like.。
"The Lord shows no partiality.。
He does not accept bribes."。
So you can't corrupt him.。
"He defends the cause of the fatherless and the widow,。
and he loves the alien, giving him food and clothing."。
That's what Yahweh God is like.。
If you want to walk in his ways,。
you need to find out where he is.。
And where you will find Yahweh God。
is not at the top of the social pile。
with the kings and the government and the powers that be.。
You will find Yahweh God right at the bottom。
with the widows, the orphans, the poor,。
the foreigners, the immigrants,。
feeding them, clothing them.。
That's what he is like.。
Oh, and by the way, Israel, you know that。
because you were like that once。
when you were aliens in Egypt,。
and God saved you and clothed you and fed you。
and watered you and led you.。
So the very next verse says,。
"That's the way of the Lord,。
and you therefore are to love those who are foreigners,。
for you yourselves were aliens in Egypt."。
So to walk in the way of the Lord then。
means doing for others what God wishes to be done for them,。
or in Israel's case, doing for others。
what God had already done for Israel。
in delivering them and providing for them.。
So to walk in the way of the Lord。
has that very practical, ethical emphasis。
that you find throughout Deuteronomy。
and the Psalms and elsewhere.。
And therefore, doing righteousness and justice。
is a kind of explication of that,。
just in case you didn't quite catch。
what it means to walk in the way of the Lord.。
The narrator expands it, walk in the ways of the Lord。
and doing righteousness and justice,。
a pair of words which would come very high up。
on any list of Old Testament ethical values.。
They occur individually, but they often occur together.。
One, the word translated justice is mishpat,。
which is a fairly active word.。
It usually means doing something, you do mishpat.。
It's to do something which will restore a situation back。
to what is right and fair in relationships,。
which is more what the other word means,。
righteousness, tzedak or tzedakah.。
Mishpat is a kind of set of actions, it's something you do,。
whereas tzedakah is a state of affairs,。
it's what you're trying to achieve, fairness and justice.。
And these two words go together so often。
in the Old Testament that they form。
what is technically known as a hendiodes,。
that is, expressing a single idea with two related words,。
like law and order or health and safety.。
We often put two words together,。
and probably the nearest kind of English translation。
of these two words together。
would be something like social justice,。
doing what is right and just in society.。
Okay, Abraham then, says God,。
is to be the founding teacher, as it were,。
of an academy of ethical instruction。
in the way of the Lord and doing righteousness and justice.。
And God says, that's why I chose him,。
that he would be that, that this ethical core。
to Abraham's purpose in God's mission and his descendants,。
not just him, but his household after him.。
But let's come back to that verse 19,。
because I'd like us to see。
the missional logic of it in there.。
I tried to read it in this way。
in order to express the point I'm trying to make,。
because here's a verse which has three clauses。
joined together by two expressions of purpose.。
And I've translated it in this way,。
I have known him, that is, I have chosen him,。
for the purpose that he will teach his household。
and children after him to keep the way of the Lord。
and so on, for the purpose that the Lord。
will bring about for Abraham what he has promised.。
And the reason why I've put it like that。
is because the word in the Hebrew。
is quite emphatically meaning that.。
It's, as you may know, if you study Hebrew at all,。
it's a very kind of paratactic language.。
They tend to just to put things side by side。
and stick what in the middle,。
and you just read the intention of the sentence into it.。
But here it is quite explicit,。
the word that means in order, l'ma'am, is here twice.。
So God says, I chose him, election, l'ma'am,。
so that he will do these things, l'ma'am,。
so that I will be able to keep my promise to him.。
So here is a verse then which binds together。
in one sentence, election, I chose him,。
ethics, where the Lord and righteous justice,。
and mission.。
They're together syntactically。
in the grammar of the sentence。
and theologically in the purposes of God,。
'cause this is God speaking about God's own self.。
I mean, this is pretty pure theology.。
If you want pure theology,。
it's God talking to God about God,。
and that's what's happening here.。
God expresses his own intention that this is what he wants.。
And it's a relatively easy step, it seems to me,。
from this verse here in Genesis 18。
to the way the apostle Paul。
expressed the purpose of his mission,。
which he says twice in Romans,。
at the beginning and the end of Romans,。
Romans 1, verse five, and Romans 16, verse 26,。
Paul says that his whole life's work。
was to bring about the obedience of faith among all nations.。
Faith among all nations is very Abrahamic.。
The obedience of faith is very Abrahamic,。
and Paul says he wants to create communities。
among the nations of faith and obedience。
who have been chosen in Abraham。
that are also committed to living in the ways of Abraham.。
That is an ethical obedience.。
So this, to draw this part to a close,。
this shows us again, doesn't it,。
the importance of recognizing what we mean by election。
when we talk about the election of God's people.。
We saw in our earlier lectures。
that it's not merely soteriological,。
that is to do with salvation,。
it's also missiological,。
it's to do with the purpose of our election.。
And it's not only soteriological and missiological,。
it's also ethical.。
It's in order that we should live in a certain way.。
God has chosen his community。
to be a community shaped by himself,。
by his own ethical character,。
walking in the ways of this God, the Lord God,。
and a community that is being taught to do that,。
to do the way of the Lord in righteousness and justice,。
and being taught to live that way in a world like Sodom,。
a world filled with oppression and injustice。
and perversion and disorder of all kinds.。
The people of God are to be a community。
that will bring a blessing to the nations.。
So in other words, according to this verse,。
Genesis 18, verse 19,。
the ethical quality of the life of God's people。
is the vital link in the verse。
between their election and their mission.。
You can't separate the two or the three in this verse.。
There is no biblical mission without biblical ethics,。
without biblical living.。
So that's what I wanted to say from Abraham。
and from that text in Genesis 18.。
Let's move on then to the Exodus。
and back again to the verse。
where we were the other day, yesterday.。
And here we've moved on from election。
to redemption and missional ethics,。
because of course the book of Exodus。
is the whole story of Israel's redemption out of Egypt。
and all that then flowed from that。
in terms of the covenant and the law and so on.。
So here's the verse that we had yesterday.。
I've read it before, Exodus chapter 19, verses four to six,。
where God says to the Israelites,。
and again, this is my own translation,。
"You yourselves have seen what I did,。
"what I have done to Egypt,。
"and I carried you on wings of eagles。
"and brought you to myself."。
Here you are at Mount Sinai.。
"Now then, if you really obey my voice。
"and keep my covenant,。
"you will be for me,"。
li, for me, "a special personal possession。
"among all the peoples.。
"For to me," it's the same word,。
"belongs the whole earth.。
"But you, you will be for me,"。
the same word again,。
"a priestly kingdom and a holy nation."。
So here is God claiming, as it were,。
this possessive relationship with Israel.。
You are my people, my special possession,。
that possessive word, li,。
but also is expressed in terms of,。
you will be that for me。
in the context of all the peoples。
and the whole earth,。
which also belongs to me.。
To me belongs the whole earth.。
You will be, for me,。
a people within that context.。
This is very much a hinge text。
in the book of Exodus.。
The earlier chapters, chapters one to 18,。
have all been the narrative of redemption,。
the great story of the Exodus,。
plagues of Egypt, crossing the Red Sea,。
and all of that.。
And the rest of the book。
will be about the giving of the law。
and the covenant,。
and then the building of the temple.。
And here is this verse right in the middle,。
in a sense, looking back to God's past action.。
You've seen what I have done.。
And also setting that within the universal context。
of God's ownership of the whole earth。
and all the nations.。
So God's intention for Israel。
is again being set within the framework。
of God's intention for all the nations,。
as per Abraham.。
Now, in the last lecture,。
the second lecture yesterday,。
we thought about what it meant for Israel。
to be God's priesthood。
in the midst of the nations,。
as the people who would be for God,。
for the nations,。
bringing the knowledge of God to the nations,。
bringing the nations to the experience of God,。
God's representatives in the world.。
But as I said yesterday,。
how would Israel be that?。
They could only be a priestly nation。
if, like their own priests,。
they were a holy nation,。
that is set apart for God.。
And that's the word that I'm picking up now.。
Now, like the word priest itself,。
the word holiness or holy,。
in Eastern English,。
I don't know what that sounds in Cantonese or Chinese,。
holiness is one of those words。
which is easily misunderstood。
because it sounds very religious.。
It sounds like God is saying,。
you will be the most religious people on earth,。
or something like that,。
which is not what he's saying at all.。
To be holy basically meant to be different,。
to be set apart,。
to be distinctive.。
So, you've got lots of plates and cups。
and vessels and things that people use,。
but some will be set apart。
to be used for God's service in the temple.。
And there are lots of people around,。
you know, men, women, and so on,。
but some are going to be set apart to be priests.。
There's a distinctiveness about that holiness.。
And so that's what God is saying here。
about Israel as a nation.。
It means being a distinctive,。
different kind of people。
because they worship Yahweh,。
who is a very different God。
from the gods of the nations.。
Now, you'll see in the text。
that I mentioned two passages in Leviticus,。
and the first says this very clearly.。
It's Leviticus chapter 18, verses three to four,。
where God says this, I quote,。
"You must not do as they do in Egypt,。
"where you used to live.。
"And you must not do as they do。
"in the land of Canaan, where I'm bringing you.。
"Do not follow their practices.。
"You must obey my laws。
"and be careful to follow my decrees。
"because I am Yahweh the Lord, your God.。
"You shall be holy for I am holy,"。
says Leviticus 19, verse two.。
In other words, Israel was to be distinctive,。
as distinctive from the other nations。
as Yahweh was different from all the other gods.。
That emphasis there comes very clearly。
in the past and the future.。
Don't be like the Egyptians.。
They worship the gods of empire,。
of armies, of power, of glory and splendor, all that.。
You don't need to be like that.。
And don't do as they do in Canaan,。
where they worship sex, health, wealth, and all that。
because that's what Baal stands for, the god of fertility.。
You don't need to go like that either。
because you're following me and my ways.。
In other words, Israel was to be Yahweh-like,。
just like we use the word Christ-like.。
They were to be Yahweh-like rather than like the nations.。
And the tragedy was that later on,。
they would want to be precisely like the other nations。
when they demanded a king.。
So they were to do as Yahweh does,。
not as the other nations do.。
So holiness then, you see, for Israel。
was a very practical down-to-earth thing.。
It meant, as it were, imitating the transcendent holiness。
of Yahweh, their God, but doing it in the practical,。
everyday, down-to-earth things of life.。
Now, of course, at one level,。
there were ritual or symbolic ways。
in which this holiness, this distinctiveness was expressed.。
We know about the laws of clean and unclean food and so on.。
And that clean-unclean distinction。
is explicitly rationalized in Leviticus 20,。
verses 25 and 26,。
to symbolize Israel's separation from the nations.。
God says, "You must respect what's clean。
"and what's unclean。
"because I have set you apart from the nations."。
So the clean-unclean distinction was symbolic。
in the Old Testament of the distinction。
between Jews and Gentiles,。
which, of course, is why in the New Testament,。
when that distinction is dissolved in Christ,。
that in Christ there is no Jew or Gentile.。
We become one in him, that at that point,。
that clean-unclean law distinction。
then disappears for those who are in Christ.。
There's no need to observe that.。
That's a theological reason.。
But alongside that ritual or symbolic kind of holiness,。
the most comprehensive list of holiness that we have。
is in Leviticus 19, which is why that text is there.。
It's a passage, a chapter, of course, which begins,。
"You shall be holy as I, the Lord your God, am holy,"。
which colloquially means。
you've got to be a different kind of people。
'cause I'm a different kind of God.。
You've got to be like me, not like the other nations。
there in Leviticus chapter 19.。
And here's something I used to do。
when I used to teach the Old Testament in India.。
I used to, we'd get to this chapter。
in my course on the Pentateuch.。
I used to have 50 lectures on the Pentateuch.。
Can you imagine that in India at the time,。
back in the 1980s?。
And we'd get to Leviticus,。
and I would ask the class to read this chapter,。
quietly in the class, and then say,。
"How many of the laws in this chapter。
"are about, quote, religion?"。
And there are a few, you know,。
about the kind of sacrifices you offer,。
one or two things about, you know,。
distinctions in meat and stuff like that.。
So there's a few which you could say。
are ritual or religious.。
And so, "So what is most of the rest of the chapter about?"。
And the obvious answer is that it's about every day,。
down to earth, practical life on the farm,。
in the marketplace, in the neighborhood,。
in the market stall, and so on.。
And then I would ask the class,。
"So if these laws in Leviticus 19。
"were to become statute law in India today,。
"what difference might they make?"。
And they would look at the chapter again,。
and then they would start to sort of giggle a bit,。
and laugh, and realize that actually,。
some of these laws are very profoundly related。
to social and economic issues,。
which we find all around us today.。
So, for example, there are laws here。
which have to do with respect for the family。
and the community, the treatment of the elderly,。
and the treatment of your children.。
There are laws which to do with economic generosity。
in agriculture, how you run your farm,。
and how you provide for the needy.。
There are commandments about economic justice。
in employment rights, how you treat your workers。
and pay them, in verse 13.。
Do not hold back the wages of a hired worker overnight.。
There are laws about judicial integrity,。
in verses 12 and 15.。
Don't swear falsely, don't pervert the course of justice,。
in verse 15, don't show partiality。
to the poor or the rich.。
There are laws about sexual integrity.。
There are laws about the treatment of ethnic minorities。
in the society, so that the foreigner who lives among you。
must be treated as the native born.。
We haven't got there yet,。
in even any modern society, have we?。
But in Israel, whatever it is,。
1300 years before Christ, they were being told,。
treat foreigners the way you treat yourselves.。
Very interesting.。
And then there's the law about commercial honesty,。
also at the end of the chapter, verses 35 and 36.。
Don't have separate weights for when you're buying。
or selling, so that you can sort of, you know,。
sell expensively and buy cheaply.。
Don't cheat in business.。
So here are laws which are then echoed in Exodus,。
Deuteronomy, and elsewhere, and reflected in the prophets,。
and in the Psalms, and in the wisdom literature,。
and indeed, you'll find some of these laws。
that are deeply impactful on Jesus。
in the Sermon on the Mount,。
and the apostle Peter in his first letter,。
and the book of James.。
This is one of the most influential chapters in the Bible,。
Leviticus 19.。
When I get to the new creation,。
I look forward to asking Moses,。
you know, why did you leave it to that chapter。
before you said all this?。
Because, you know, didn't you know nobody's ever gonna get。
to chapter 19 with Leviticus?。
They all give up after about chapter two.。
It's a very important chapter, Leviticus 19.。
And you see, the point I'm trying to make here。
is this is not some kind of socialist charter.。
This is biblical holiness, according to Leviticus.。
This is where that famous verse that Jesus called。
the second greatest commandment of the law comes,。
love your neighbor as yourself.。
It's from Leviticus chapter 19.。
So in all of these ways, then, I need to keep moving along.。
Down to earth, practical social ethics.。
Israel was summoned to respond to their redemption.。
You are the people whom God has redeemed out of Egypt.。
Now you must live in a way which reflects the character。
of the God who has redeemed you.。
If Israel were to be God's priesthood。
in the midst of the nations,。
that is, Yahweh's representatives,。
then they have to be ethically different from the nations,。
not just religiously different.。
It wasn't just that they would say to the Canaanites,。
oh, you worship Baal, that's very interesting.。
We worship Yahweh, let's have a conversation.。
No, their whole lives would be different。
as a result of the worship of Yahweh,。
which is illustrated, by the way,。
in the story of Naboth, isn't it?。
Because when Ahab wanted to buy some land off Naboth,。
Naboth said, oh, I can't do that。
because the law doesn't allow it.。
And Ahab knew that he couldn't。
'cause he was an Israelite king, and the law prohibited it.。
But his wife was Jezebel, and his wife wasn't Israelite.。
She was Canaanite.。
She came from up Tyre and Sidon.。
And where she lived, under the rule of Baal,。
kings and queens could have whatever they want.。
And so she says to Ahab,。
is that the way you behave as a king in Israel?。
Ahab said, well, actually, yes,。
because that's what the law says.。
She said, well, let me do it then.。
She gets the land, and she uses Israel's law。
to get rid of Naboth so that the land could be stolen.。
So you see this contrast between people。
who live under the reign of Yahweh。
will live with the security of economic viability。
for themselves and their families into the future。
because God has given them an economic system。
which will support them.。
But if you live under the reign of Baal,。
then it's just whoever takes whatever they want。
if they've got the power to do so.。
Very different ethical system altogether.。
So Exodus 19 then, with the expansion in Leviticus 19,。
makes this basic insistence that if God's people。
are going to fulfill their God-given mission,。
then they need to be what they are,。
that is, the holy people of the holy God.。
Israel's identity as a priestly kingdom。
generates a mission to the nations,。
and that mission to the nations。
demands an ethic to be a holy nation.。
So that's the first two, Genesis, election and ethics,。
Exodus, redemption and ethics,。
and that leads, therefore, lastly, to Deuteronomy。
and the covenantal community built around this covenant。
and how that then affects the way they should live.。
So what have we seen so far?。
We saw in Genesis 18, verse 19,。
that the ethical response of God required of his people。
was integral to the very purpose of election,。
and in Exodus chapter 19 and Leviticus 19,。
we've seen that obedience to God's covenant law。
was the essential response of God's people to grace,。
the grace of redemption in the Exodus.。
When we arrive in the book of Deuteronomy,。
Israel is just across the Jordan from the promised land.。
The book of Deuteronomy, as I'm sure you know,。
presents itself to us, the way it's framed and shaped,。
presents itself to us as the speeches of Moses。
to the Israelites as they consider their future life。
in the land, the next phase of the canonical journey.。
And there in the land, they would be summoned to live。
as this covenantal community,。
demonstrating their loyalty to the living God, Yahweh,。
and doing so in a context where they would be surrounded。
by other nations, by other peoples.。
Initially, the Canaanites, although they would be driven out。
but those would remain, and then the other nations as well.。
And the passage that I want us to look at here,。
as you can see on the screen,。
is Deuteronomy chapter four, verses six to eight.。
But Deuteronomy four, just to give you。
a little bit of context,。
chapter four of Deuteronomy is almost like a kind。
of microcosm of the whole book.。
It's a sort of summarizing prologue。
of all that's going to follow.。
It's summoning Israel basically to covenant loyalty。
and exclusive worship of Yahweh alone.。
That's what really is the heart of the chapter.。
And the warning in the chapter is that Israel must。
at all costs avoid idolatry, going after other gods.。
That's repeated again and again.。
But that religious exclusivism, Yahweh alone,。
and the worship of Yahweh alone, needs to be seen,。
especially in this chapter, the beginning and the end,。
of Israel's role in relation。
to the nations that surround them.。
Let me read just towards the close of the chapter,。
verses 32 to 34, where Israel is told by God。
that they have a unique experience of the living God,。
which no other nation has.。
Ask now about the former days long before your time,。
from the day God created man, sorry,。
created human beings on the earth.。
Ask from one end of the heavens to the other.。
In other words, the beginning of time and the whole of space.。
That's a pretty big research project if you're doing a PhD.。
So wherever you look, look wherever you like.。
Has anything as great as this ever happened?。
Has anything like it ever been heard of?。
Has any other nation heard the voice of God。
speaking out of the fire as you have and lived?。
Meaning, of course, Mount Sinai.。
Has any other God ever tried to take for himself。
one nation out of another nation by testing signs,。
wonders, war, mighty hand, and so on?。
Like all the things the Lord, your God,。
did for you in Egypt before your eyes?。
That's the Exodus.。
And the answer to the rhetorical questions are, of course,。
no, the Mount Sinai experience。
and the Exodus experience are unique.。
They're unprecedented.。
They'd not been done before, and they're unparalleled.。
They've not been done for any other nation.。
So you, Israel, you have a knowledge and experience。
of the living God, which at this moment in history is unique.。
No other nation has this.。
You were shown these things, verse 35,。
so that you might know what the other nations。
do not yet know, that the Lord Yahweh is God,。
and beside him there is no other.。
And he then repeats all of that from verses 36 to 39,。
says it all over again, in order to make absolutely sure。
that that is seen.。
So you see, given that unique status and privilege。
that Israel has, that of all the nations on the planet。
at that time, they are the one nation。
who have experienced God's redemption in Exodus。
and have experienced and enjoyed God's revelation。
in Mount Sinai, given that that is their unique status,。
then they must steward that, they must hold that,。
in a sense, on trust for the nations,。
and therefore they must live in such a way。
that the nations will start asking questions。
about this God and this way of life.。
And that's what we read in chapter four, verses six to eight.。
Now, as you probably know, again,。
if you've done any biblical studies,。
the book of Deuteronomy is a very motivational book.。
It takes many of the laws of Exodus and Leviticus。
and repeats many of them, but it repeats them often。
with some motive clauses, why should you obey these laws,。
in order for this or that, or whatever it might be.。
It's a kind of preached law, as I think Ponrat once said.。
So here in verses six to eight, we read a motivation,。
why should you observe these laws?。
Verse six, observe these laws carefully,。
for this will show your wisdom and understanding。
to the nations, there they are, all of a sudden,。
who will hear about all these decrees and will say,。
surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people,。
because what other nation is so great。
as to have their gods near them,。
the way Yahweh, our God, is near us whenever we pray to him,。
and what other nation is so great。
as to have such righteous decrees and laws。
as this body of laws that I'm setting before you today?。
Now these verses then, you see, six to eight,。
they said Israel's ethical obedience to God。
and to God's law in the land, when they would get there,。
within the covenant, they set all of that。
in the context of the watching nations.。
Obedience to the law was not for Israel's benefit alone.。
In fact, it's a marked feature of the Old Testament,。
isn't it, that Israel lived in a very public stage.。
I mean, the history of Israel all through the books,。
right through Samuel, Kings, and so on, right on through,。
the other nations are always there,。
most often fighting against Israel, but they're there.。
Israel is not in some vacuum-sealed isolation。
from the world.。
They live on a very open stage。
in the international ancient Near East.。
But what God is saying here is that that visibility。
of Israel has a theological purpose,。
that God wants the nations to see his people。
and to ask questions.。
And indeed, the nations in this passage。
and in a number of other places in the Torah and elsewhere,。
the nations are presented almost like spectators。
in a drama, almost like the audience。
of what's happening on stage.。
They're witnesses to what God is doing in Israel,。
which may be positive or negative.。
In these verses, the hope is that the nations。
might be impressed with the wisdom of Israel,。
but more likely, as we read later in the book,。
the nations are gonna be shocked。
by the severity of God's judgment on Israel。
when they abandon God.。
That comes at the end of Deuteronomy,。
when the judgments and the curses will fall on God's people。
and the nations are, "Why is this happening?。
"Why are these people being so badly judged?"。
And God will say, "Because they disobeyed me."。
So either way, whether faithfully obeying God。
or unfaithfully disobeying God,。
the people of God are an open book.。
They can be seen by the world around.。
And let's be honest, that's as true for the church。
as it is for Israel,。
and that's part of the challenge of Christian ethics.。
So the nations then, in this verse,。
they will take notice, they will take an interest。
in this phenomenon of Israel as a society.。
And the rhetorical questions that are asked in the passage。
sharpen the point by speaking about Israel's greatness.。
What are the nations so great?。
Now, Israel was never a great nation。
in any way we would use that word today.。
They were never a very big nation or a powerful nation。
or a military nation or anything, really.。
I mean, to the most extent,。
was perhaps under the empire of Solomon,。
and that didn't last very long.。
But according to this text,。
the greatness of Israel will be based。
on the nearness of God.。
Our God is nearest.。
They have a God with an intimacy of prayer and worship.。
And secondly, the righteousness of the Torah,。
the quality of their social justice,。
which would be greater than any of the other nations.。
And these would be the factors。
that would lie behind this external reputation。
and curiosity.。
As far as the nations could see,。
the thing that was different about Israel。
was to be seen as a matter of wisdom and understanding.。
And it would have to do with the presence of God。
and the justice of God being exercised in their midst.。
So from the point of view of our concern here。
of bringing mission and ethics together,。
these verses articulate a motivation for obedience to God,。
which is easily overlooked.。
Because what God is saying here is,。
if only God's people would live as God intended,。
if you would obey these laws,。
then the nations would notice.。
But then we remind ourselves that Israel, in any case,。
only existed for the ultimate purpose。
of being a blessing to the nations.。
That's the reason for their election,。
as we've been saying all through.。
And so here we find that one aspect。
of being a blessing to the nations。
is by providing a model of national social justice。
that the nations could observe and ask questions about.。
And so the missional challenge of these verses。
is that the ethical quality of the life of God's people,。
their obedience to God's law and his constitution。
and the whole economic political system he was giving them,。
would be a vital factor in the attraction。
of the nations to the living God.。
In the book of Isaiah, this is described as their light.。
Nations will come to your light.。
But when Isaiah talks about the light of God's people。
in chapter 58, he says it has to do。
with removing the yoke of oppression,。
feeding the poor, caring for the needy,。
then your light will break forth。
and your righteousness like the dawn.。
That's Isaiah 58.。
And so the light of God's people。
is not just in a sense the light of the gospel。
that we know the living God,。
it's also the attractional light of living in a way。
which draws people to God.。
And that was an Old Testament principle。
which Jesus picks up when he says to his disciples,。
perhaps a bit surprised, he says,。
"You know, you guys, you are the light of the world.。
"So let your good deeds shine。
"so that people may be drawn to God."。
Because after all, when you think about this verse again,。
what would the nations actually see in Israel?。
They wouldn't see the nearness of God。
because the nearness of God in a sense by definition。
is invisible.。
God is not even there as a statue in the temple.。
This was part of the scandal of Israel's faith。
that they didn't have an image of their God.。
So when the nations look at Israel,。
"Where are your gods?。
"You really haven't got one."。
They know our God is in heaven doing what he wants.。
And these other gods that you've got。
are powerless and useless.。
So the nations would not see the nearness of God.。
There is a vital link then between the invisible claims。
that Israel would make about their God。
as they pray to him would be modeled。
in the very visible practical way in which they would live.。
And the world will only be interested。
in the God we say we worship。
when they see the way we live。
according to the way we worship.。
And if people don't see any difference。
in the lives of those who make claims about their God,。
they're not going to be particularly interested。
in the God they say they worship.。
So there's a very missional point at stake here,。
which certainly hits us as Christians as well.。
Well, that leads me just to a few concluding echoes。
then in the New Testament.。
I haven't picked all of this up into the New Testament,。
but I think we need to be doing it in one or two ways.。
Because as I've said all the way through,。
it's this narrative framework of Old Testament Israel,。
which was the framework within which Christ。
and his apostles understood the gospel.。
They understood that it's the God of Israel。
who has kept his promise to the world。
by sending his son Jesus as Messiah,。
as the savior of the world.。
And so what's very clear is that when these Old Testament,。
these New Testament apostles thought。
about living as Christians in the world,。
they used these themes of election, redemption, and covenant。
and drew from them the kind of ethical implications。
that we've been seeing in the Old Testament.。
And I just wanted to give two examples,。
one from Ephesians and the other from 1 Peter.。
In Ephesians, Paul links our election,。
which he speaks about right up front in chapter one,。
both to its ethical purpose。
that we are to be holy and blameless。
and to live to the praise of God's glory.。
That's what he says we've been chosen for,。
to praise his glorious grace.。
We are chosen in him to be holy and blameless in his sight.。
That's very Old Testament language.。
So there's the ethical purpose,。
but also he links that to God's great missional purpose。
for the cosmos.。
Same chapter, Ephesians chapter one, verses nine and 10,。
God's purpose is to bring unity to all things。
in heaven and earth under Christ.。
So in one, 'cause it's all one sentence in the Greek,。
Paul binds together God's election of his people。
with the way his people live。
with what God's plan is for the whole universe.。
So cosmic unification in chapter one,。
that's the oneness of creation,。
to bind it all together in Christ,。
flows into ethnic reconciliation in chapters two and three。
where Paul builds the whole gospel。
around how God has created one new humanity。
for this one new creation,。
a new humanity which is there in Jew and Gentile,。
where God has made them one new man,。
kainos anthropos, as he said.。
And that indeed, he said, is to be proclaimed。
to the powers, the wickedness, the wisdom and glory of God.。
They will see the wisdom and glory of God。
when it's manifested in the church,。
which is the people of God who've been united in one。
from the dividedness of before.。
So cosmic unification becomes ethnic reconciliation,。
and that then leads in chapter four into ecclesial unity.。
We are to live together in harmony with one another。
and with ethical integrity,。
so that we are to live out that one new man.。
It's interesting that many of our English translations。
miss the way Paul repeats that God has made Jew and Gentile。
one new humanity, one new man,。
and then says in chapter four。
that we are to put off the old humanity。
and put on that new man.。
We are to live out the newness of humanity。
that God has created.。
So what I'm trying to say here is that。
Ephesians is often portrayed as a kind of two-part book。
in which you get gospel doctrine in the first half。
and ethical implications in the second half.。
And in some ways, that does seem,。
but actually I want to say。
it's all woven together throughout.。
Paul is expounding election and redemption。
and living as the people of God。
in a way which has ethical dimensions all the way through。
in terms of what we are。
to live to the praise of glory in God.。
So the ethical life of God's people as the new humanity,。
the new way of being human,。
is in itself part of the gospel.。
It's part of the very reason why God brought us together.。
And then finally, when we look at 1 Peter,。
1 Peter binds the same things together。
right from the start in chapter one.。
He binds election, redemption, and sanctification。
in his opening verses,。
that we have been chosen,。
according to the foreknowledge of God the Father,。
through the sanctifying work of the Spirit。
to be obedient to Jesus Christ and sprinkled with his blood.。
So there's election and holiness and redemption。
all within that passage.。
And then later on in the same chapter,。
he says in, I just fire away, in verses 13 to 16,。
he says that as obedient children do not conform。
to the evil desires you had when you lived in ignorance,。
but just as he called you as holy,。
so be holy in all you do.。
For as it is written, be holy for I am holy.。
Quotes Exodus, Leviticus 19, and applies it to Christians.。
And then he brings in redemption.。
He says, because you know that it was not。
with perishable things like silver and gold。
that you were redeemed from the empty way。
of the life handed down to you from your ancestors,。
but with the precious blood of Christ,。
a lamb without blemish or defect,。
who was chosen before the creation of the world.。
And through him, you've been redeemed。
by the blood of Christ, therefore purify yourself。
and live in the way that he describes.。
And so election, redemption, and living。
are all put together there in that first chapter.。
And in chapter two, as we have seen,。
he brings that identity and mission of Israel。
in Exodus 19 and applies it to Christian believers.。
You are that chosen people, a royal priesthood,。
a holy nation, God's special possession,。
so that you may declare the praises of him。
who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light.。
Once you were not a people, now you are the people of God.。
That's all Exodus, redemption, election language.。
Therefore, he says, live such good lives among the nations。
that though they accuse you of doing wrong,。
they may see your good deeds and glorify God。
on the day he visits us.。
And when you then move on from that chapter。
into the rest of 1 Peter,。
he shows that that then can be exemplified。
in everyday ordinary life.。
For example, that a believing wife,。
through her behavior, through the way she lives,。
can be instrumental in winning her husband to faith。
in chapter three, verse one.。
That to go on doing good, which he repeats again and again,。
even in the midst of suffering and opposition,。
doing good will lead to opportunities。
to speak in defense of our faith,。
to give a reason for the hope that was in us.。
So the ethical quality of the life of Christians。
will have an evangelistic and a missional implication.。
So let me then draw this all to a conclusion.。
Point we're making here is this,。
that when we think about the ethical teaching。
of the Old Testament and whether and how it relates。
in the new, it's not enough.。
It's not enough just to ask, well,。
what applies to me and what doesn't?。
That's usually a fairly fruitless kind of question.。
It's not enough to ask, well,。
what's the place of the Old Testament law now。
in the Christian life?。
Because again, that can lead。
in all sorts of wrong directions.。
We have to ask the first question, which is,。
what was the purpose of the law in the life of Israel。
to shape them to be God's people?。
And before that, we need to ask,。
and what was the purpose of Israel existing。
in the first place, which was to be a blessing to the world,。
to be God's people in the midst of the world?。
In other words, there is a missional answer。
which has to be applied to the ethical teaching。
of the Old Testament, and then consider。
what that means for us.。
The New Testament writers clearly believed。
that God had kept his promise to Israel。
in the life and death and resurrection of the Messiah,。
and then in the ingathering of the nations。
through the Gentile mission, and that those。
who have now entered into this multinational people of God。
by repentance and faith in Christ,。
that means us, the global Christian church,。
that we are called to the life of obedience and holiness。
in order to participate in the mission of God,。
based upon our redemption, based on the grace of God,。
not in order to earn our salvation,。
but we are called to the obedience of faith.。
And so let me conclude with the words。
of the Cape Town Commitment.。
I referred to this earlier, the Lausanne Commitment,。
because it tries to bind this all together。
in one paragraph.。
It's paragraph 110a.。
It says this, and I'll just quote it.。
I haven't got it on the screen.。
"God calls his people to share God's mission.。
The church from all nations stands in continuity organically。
through the Messiah Jesus with God's people。
in the Old Testament.。
With them, we have been called through Abraham。
and commissioned to be a blessing and a light。
to the nations.。
With them, we are to be shaped and taught。
through the law and the prophets, all the scriptures,。
to be a community of holiness, compassion, and justice。
in a world of sin and suffering.。
We have been redeemed through the cross and resurrection。
of Jesus Christ and empowered by the Holy Spirit。
to bear witness to what God has done in Christ.。
The church exists to worship and glorify God。
for all eternity and to participate。
in the transforming mission of God within history.。
Our mission is wholly derived from God's mission,。
addresses the whole of God's creation,。
and is grounded at its center。
in the redeeming victory of the cross.。
This is the people to whom we belong,。
whose faith we confess, and whose mission we share."。
Amen.。
Thank you.。
Thank you, Grace.。
(water splashing)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
