So you are welcome to ask questions to three of them.。
We have a mic over here.。
You can come over here in the centre of the hall.。
Before that, Mark, do you have any further comment to their response?。
Well, I appreciated what both of you shared.。
First, it's absolutely true, this relevance is always, that's partly why I use the image。
of relevance from above and relevance from beneath, or from below, because the actual。
facts on the ground have to be made to be the stuff out of which the relevance from。
above is actually able to even be heard or understood.。
But without the relevance from above, in the way I'm intending it, it's meant not to be。
an imposition, but a revelation, which has to actually be given to us and which is true。
regardless of what's happening below.。
But I appreciated very much the challenges, really, of how do you actually truly do this。
in a way where there might be avoidance, denial, rejection, shame, fear, so many things that。
are part of what hampers our conversation, among other things.。
So certainly I appreciated that.。
And I think I would just say about beauty, there's more to be said if people want to。
explore this, but I just think that we worship a god of beauty, a god who has fashioned a。
world of beauty.。
You just have to live in Hong Kong to know that.。
I mean, this is a beautiful, remarkably beautiful place, and in such a concentrated form.。
Both the beauty of all the human beings that are here, let me start with that, but also。
the physical creation space.。
So when I say the church needs to be beautiful, what I mean is that it needs to be a church。
that lives its life out of the beauty of human relationships, out of the beauty of compassion,。
out of the beauty of forgiveness, out of the beauty of an acknowledgment of wrongdoing。
and the restoration of relationships, it's out of an unexpectedness of a willingness。
to be self-giving, to lay down power.。
These are all beautiful things.。
Whether people all receive them equally as beautiful, of course, beauty, as they say,。
is in the eye of the beholder.。
That I think is taken for granted.。
I'm meaning it more from the sense of, is the church living in such a way that the beauty。
of God's intention of a new creation is being shown whether or not people accept or reject。
it in the same way that, for example, just this week, Apple Computer, as you may know,。
released a new iPad, and in the context of that, they made a video, which perhaps many。
of you have seen, which is this video of a press machine that's pressing down on all。
kinds of instruments of human creativity and crushing them, and then when it slowly lifts,。
it has this iPad.。
I could not believe it.。
I felt like this was, Apple has made many serious mistakes in the way that they tell。
their story, but this was maybe the worst of all.。
This was saying the beauty of all human activity that has manifested itself in crafts and arts。
and instrumentation and imagination.。
It all gets smashed, and all you need is an iPad.。
It was just like, that is repulsive.。
So what I don't mean by beauty is anything remotely like technical power, something like。
imposition, something like an eradication of the smallest gestures.。
I've been recommending to some people this really amazing film that has come out recently。
called Perfect Days, and it's a film about a Japanese man.。
I won't tell you, go into the details of the story, but it's the way that he lives the。
beauty of his life in the most tiny, routine ways that are filled with human dignity.。
That's what I mean about a church in beauty.。
In the most ordinary of ways, we treasure who God has made, we see one another, we feel。
with one another.。
Those are absolute beauty to me, and I think that church absolutely is doing that.。
But if it needs to be more of that, then so.。
So anyway, those are just two quick comments.。
The power or the beauty of service.。
The beauty of powerful love.。
Right.。
Wonderful.。
All right.。
Okay.。
Thank you.。
Anyone like to come over and ask any question or make any comment, please come over here,。
please.。
Perhaps you would like to first mention your name and then to ask your question or make。
comment.。
In this occasion, I should actually better speak in English, but because I want to express。
myself more fully, so excuse me, I have to speak in Cantonese.。
There are a few questions that I would like to ask.。
The topic that we are talking about today is relevance, but I think in Hong Kong, if。
we are talking about relevance, first we have to talk about the beginning and the end, identification.。
If we don't identify with our society, the pain and suffering, then we are talking about。
relevance.。
So, I think when I was listening, I was hoping that Dr. Levitin would talk more about a more。
down-to-earth insight, but he was talking about the feeling of going back to school。
and teaching, and then you have to digest it yourself to be able to explain it.。
So, I think, would it be…。
In fact, in Hong Kong, I was appreciating Dr. Leivitin, he was very brave to speak.。
In fact, what he said, if it were to go public, it would be a big problem.。
So, I think when we talk about relevance, the first thing is to start from our situation.。
In Hong Kong, as Dr. Leivitin just said, in the past 50 years, it was very easy for us。
to identify with the embodiment of Hong Kong society, because when we did some old-fashioned。
politics, it was very easy, you wouldn't offend anyone, but today, when we are talking about。
embodiment, you have to be political.。
Why are so many people emigrating, especially the Hong Kong Church?。
In fact, I think the biggest problem is that a lot of pastors, a lot of leaders, they have。
left.。
I know…。
Because my pastor's church used to be in Shatin, there was a church, a few years ago,。
about 1,000 people, a church was about 1,000 people, it was about 4,000 people, about 1,000。
people left.。
So, when we say we have to identify, we have to have relevance, if we don't start from。
the identity, it is very difficult, but when we talk about identity, we will involve political。
issues that are very sensitive.。
So, this, or the pastors can give us some opinions, how do we identify, we won't cross。
the red line?。
So, this is what we need to identify.。
Thank you very much for your questions.。
First, let me just say that, as a guest to Hong Kong, and as a guest to CGST, I think。
one of the handicaps that I bring is that I can't be specific about Hong Kong.。
I can, I would be presumptuous to do that, so I'm not obviously trying to do that.。
However, I do understand the point you're making about not wanting to leave things abstractly,。
and if we had been able to, if I had been able to finish all that I had actually prepared,。
there was more that would have landed in the space that you were looking for, but, because,。
so let me just, let me just offer a couple of things, so, and then the second question。
was about, first one was about identity, and the second question was about how we, how。
we make this, how we have honest conversation about things that we avoid talking about.。
Is that, are those the two primary issues?。
Okay, so, so I do think that in a Christian understanding of identity, it does, it does。
ground itself first in that I am a creature of God, that I'm a disciple of Jesus Christ,。
that I belong to a certain family, that I am associated socially in a certain circle,。
which could be a function of, you might at that stage move into Hong Kong identity, you。
might move into Chinese identity, you might move into ethnic identity, but those are things。
that are down the list, but you have to decide how those things are ordered, so I would,。
I would never myself want to start only with the Hong Kong identity, for example, or my。
citizenship in the United States.。
If I'm interested in talking about things that are specifically Christian, then I would。
want to do that, but, for example, just to be candid with what you're, I think, getting。
at, right now in the United States, as you know, there's this huge divide within the。
church about whether you are a supporter of Donald Trump or whether you're a supporter。
of Joe Biden, and then you're, and then around that, there's the questions of are you more。
conservative in your politics or more liberal in your politics, and many other things, but。
those are the biggest kind of categories, so let's imagine I was having a conversation。
with somebody who was a secular person, or, do you want it to be a person outside the。
church or a person inside the church?。
Inside the church.。
And I've talked, I've certainly spoken at churches where there's a division, and all。
the red people sit over here and all the blue people sit over there.。
No, they don't do that, but they do really do that.。
They do it by realizing who are the people I'm most comfortable with in this church?。
I'll sit with the people that are going to make me the least uncomfortable, so that does。
really happen, and, but let's imagine that I'm with one or two of those, or maybe I'm。
with two, one from each side, and they want to talk about this division, and I would want。
to take it on straight ahead, like, what is it that's really, why exactly, what are you。
each defining?。
What are the questions that it raises?。
Why is there a collision?。
What could potentially solve the collision?。
And if there isn't a solution to the collision, which I think, technically speaking, there。
isn't a solution to the collision, what are the things that could be constructively done。
in a time right now where there's this division, right?。
So I think, for example, of a friend of mine who is the leader of an organization throughout。
the United States that creates what it calls courageous conversations, where it brings。
people together around these very difficult points of conversation.。
It's intended for Christian people.。
They come specifically because they disagree with each other, and they have sustained conversations,。
sometimes over a few weeks, sometimes it goes on for as much as a year, where the same group。
of people would come together around a sequence of topics, and every time they get together,。
there's a huge range of opinion that's different.。
What they're trying to practice is what they call Christian peacemaking.。
So they would say, first of all, it's an attempt to be peacemakers by just being in the room。
with each other and having this extended conversation regularly over time, which gives us a chance。
not just to talk about the topic, but to know one another, right?。
So you may know the name, he's a writer in the United States, a social commentator named。
David Brooks.。
David Brooks says, "The question to ask someone is not why do you believe that, but how did。
you come to believe that?"。
The why question is sort of a defensive question, justify yourself that you have this particular。
opinion.。
A how question is a storytelling question, how did it happen that you came to have this。
conviction?。
It invites someone to tell the story of events, people, circumstances, experiences they've。
had, et cetera, right?。
So that would be an example of saying, here's a very simple construct, it's overt about。
its purpose, we're coming together because we don't agree.。
We are all Christians, but we're going to come together in a regular pattern of respectful。
or sometimes it's called civil conversation, but courageous because they know that it's。
going to be a heated conversation.。
There will be emotions and passions expressed that are in collision.。
Now I think that's an expression to me, a very practical on the ground expression of。
how people can come together.。
The thing that I don't know, but I think I have an intuition about in Hong Kong, is that。
that might be a lot more politically risky than I think it's socially or politically。
risky in the United States.。
So that does complicate these things.。
As Jesus said, power does.。
Power does complicate things.。
So that would be an example.。
Do you want another example or is that at least a helpful gesture?。
>> Okay.。
Okay.。
Yeah.。
Okay.。
Yeah.。
That's good.。
Okay.。
Please.。
Okay.。
>> I have one more comment about identity.。
I think we all have to remember our identity is the forgiven sinners.。
I think in this very divisive term, people make different decisions.。
For example, immigration, should I leave or not leave?。
I choose to stay in Hong Kong, but I do not have a young kid.。
I do not have -- my girls are all grown up.。
What would I have done if I have three -- if my three girls are in primary three or four?。
I don't know.。
I won't know what I would choose unless I'm really in that situation.。
So I think one of the things we really have to learn is to be graceful to one another.。
We ask God to show us how I should be, you know, a graceful person to witness for the。
truth -- to the truth, but in a humble way.。
But I also accept the way that, you know, the Lord may lead other people to walk different。
paths.。
I think this kind of acceptance is very important at this time.。
>> Amen.。
>> May I add a little bit?。
I wrote down a quote from the American journalist, like, Henry Louis Mencken.。
He says, like, when people talk, they need religion.。
In actual, they want police, because we want someone to be a judge to crush down the opposition.。
I think as a church, as a people of God, when we try to have a conversation on divisive。
topics, I think, at least to me, actually, most of the time, it's not about the topic。
itself.。
Even though it is divisive, we try to deal with the stories behind, but especially the。
sadness, the hurt, the disappointment.。
I think if we have the courageous conversation, a lot of time, we can still disagree on many。
things, but we are together because we feel sadness, we feel hurt.。
It's not because you do not agree with me, so I feel hurt.。
No, not that.。
But because we think we are no longer together.。
The separation really hurts the relationship.。
I think that's the disappointment we have to deal with.。
I think that one of the main factors to the culture of indifference is because we will。
disagree on everything, right, because why waste time on discussing?。
But to deal deep down, I think at least it helps to rebuild something.。
Yeah, and I would only add to that that I think one of the most influential factors。
emotionally is fear.。
And fear is like a global, the whole world is captivated by fear right now, and for all。
different reasons, but related reasons and interrelated reasons.。
And I think that's an example like sadness or loss or grief or pain or suffering that。
just is at the backdrop that people then present the opinion that they have, but it really。
is built out of this much deeper set of issues.。
So part of it has to do with are we committed to really trying to understand the other person?。
Do we actually want to know really who they are and how they have come to this story?。
So I think those are things that call forth from us the beautiful goodness of God who。
is an empathetic, loving, listening God.。
Are we people who are prepared to live that way?。
Thank you.。
Any other questions or comment or suggestion?。
Or objections?。
Yes, please.。
I would like to thank you for sharing, it's very inspiring.。
Thank you for sharing, it's very inspiring to me.。
I was especially inspired at how the gospel is already relevant from the very beginning,。
no matter what the church is relevant to the gospel today.。
That really helped me a lot because God has gone through before all of us to do anything.。
And I was really touched by how we could – I was thinking like how difficult it is to be。
relevant today because maybe of individualism, like people respecting what you believe, but。
it's okay because I don't believe in what you believe.。
I think that was really hard to – I find it relevant to speak the gospel to the world,。
but then – and then as I was thinking, well, I can start with small things like learning。
where people come from and learning their backgrounds and just having conversations。
and see where God leads because God went before I did.。
So thank you for sharing.。
And what you're describing there beautifully is love, right?。
That's simply what love is, that's what human kindness is, is simply paying attention。
to each other at a significant level.。
That changes things.。
I had this opportunity for a while at one stage to work closely with John Stott.。
I would be in a place where people were – he had spoken and then people would be asking。
questions and then sometimes afterwards very angry people would be like right in his face.。
And of course it was fascinating to watch how he would respond to this moment.。
And the typical way that he responded right off the – the first thing was they were。
often very loud in their speech, and this is all around the world, this wasn't just。
in the U.S.。
All kinds of settings where people were very angry at him, they would be screaming at him。
and he would address them in a very respectful, quiet voice.。
So suddenly he's not mirroring their energy, right, he's just saying tell me more about。
what upset you.。
I mean suddenly just that simple thing.。
There are people that of course would come back angrily, of course that happened, but。
in most cases it immediately brought the temperature down because they were expecting a collision,。
you know a battle, they were going to argue with John Stott.。
Instead it was just, as you said, in the most practical, ordinary sense.。
But that requires that we are not afraid, right, John was not afraid.。
If you're afraid you're going to respond more defensively.。
If you're not afraid then you can actually be much more calm, clear about what you really。
want to say or express.。
It's such a small little thing and yet it can change the climate of a room or a discussion。
pretty amazingly.。
>> Wonderful.。
Thank you.。
I'd love to see – we have a question from a younger generation.。
Anyone else?。
>> Actually.。
>> Oh, it's still young.。
>> She asked a question I wanted to ask exactly, so thank you very much.。
It's incredibly, incredibly relieving for us that we don't need to be relevant because。
the Gospel is relevant.。
>> Yes.。
>> But it's incredibly difficult because we need to be relevant to the Gospel.。
>> Yes, yes.。
>> So that's my question.。
If you want to add something to that because I find that we were asking the wrong question。
and so by asking the wrong question we were doing wrong things, right?。
>> Well, we want to make ourselves the agent, right?。
This is what human beings have always been inclined to from the garden on.。
We want our agency to be primary.。
So we immediately move that way.。
Instead of asking what is God's agency and how do we join in the agency of God.。
So I would just add – I mean, it's a whole gigantic topic of its own, but the first thing。
has to be that we become ever more like Jesus Christ, right?。
If we're going to be relevant to the Gospel, then there is actually a person to whom we。
are meant to be relevant, not just a set of ideas.。
And the relevance is not just saying, "I believe in you."。
The relevance is actually mirroring God's reality and trying to grow in character and。
mind and heart and compassion and mercy in a way that reflects the Gospels.。
This is why I've often said we should never be more than five minutes away from re-reading。
the Gospel again because it feels as though we can't get enough of it because it takes。
so much for it to actually, by God's power, work its way into our bodies, into our minds,。
so that actually increasingly those become our instincts, right?。
Just like I told you the story just a moment ago about John Stott.。
Where did that come from?。
That came from John Stott spending hours on his knees listening to God, praying, reading。
the Scripture, wanting to be inhabited by the God who is like that.。
And over time, in good days and bad days, in hard situations, in conflict, God wants。
to grow that in us, right?。
That's an amazing thing.。
So this relevance to God is first of all Christological.。
First of all, I want to become like Jesus.。
I use the Jesus prayer many, many, many, many dozens of times every day just as a breath。
prayer as I'm going through my day, "Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, have mercy on me。
a sinner."。
That simple little prayer for me is very clarifying.。
So especially when I'm in hot, difficult conversations or circumstances, "Lord Jesus Christ, Son。
of God, have mercy on me, Lord Jesus."。
This is all either internal or just a breath.。
Just to say I want to remain absolutely clear about what really matters here.。
What matters here is that I want to be a follower of Jesus who is relevant in my character,。
my words, my actions, my attitudes, like Jesus would be relevant to this person if he was。
here.。
And I only know how to practice that and then be in communities.。
Usually it's close friendships, small groups of people who over time have taught me how。
to do that, right?。
So in fact, this past weekend, I was not able to be there because I was here.。
This past weekend, a group of college friends, 25 college friends, who have remained part。
of a covenant group for the last 45 years.。
And in the course of that, I had just become a Christian when I was in college.。
So they were some of the earliest Christians I ever met.。
And they were then and still are now some of the most impressive Christians I've ever。
met.。
And so it was being with them that they showed me, "Oh, you could actually respond like this."。
That was so different from what my family, let's say, might have taught me, different。
from the way other friends might have taught me.。
They taught me a Jesus-likeness hunger and thirst.。
And I think that's the center of at least an answer to the question of how the church。
becomes relevant to the gospel.。
I think she had a question.。
- Please.。
- Thank you so much for Dr. Labberton.。
I totally agree with what you shared, and especially when you said that when people。
are having fear inside, it's hard to have a calm and respectful conversation, and it。
just became more defensive.。
And there are, like, coalition between disagreements, but when people are, like, safe and calm and。
they inhabited Jesus inside them, and then they can have, even with the disagreements,。
they can be the peacemaker, just like what Jesus asked us to do.。
So here I'm thinking, or I think I don't represent, like, all of the younger generation's pastors,。
but, like, some of them I know, or including myself, that we face some difficulties, like,。
when we are in a more junior place, even when we are not fearful inside and we would like。
to have conversations, and when we ask some, like, more sharper questions or…。
Oh, yeah, more critical questions, and that actually triggers some insecurity inside some。
senior pastors or those who have power over us, have a higher authority, and that, I was。
thinking, what would, like, Jesus react to that if that conversation became kind of violent?。
What was it?。
Violent.。
Violent, yes.。
Yeah, and, like, for Jesus, He would let the people to take Him to the cross and die for。
the good and forgive whoever hurt Him, but He is Jesus, and we are humans, and, like,。
is there any tips for us, or sometimes maybe we have to protect ourselves by drawing some。
boundaries and maybe there are some, like, some sceneries that we might not be able to。
have that kind of conversations that might be some kind of ideal?。
Yeah.。
First of all, I can't tell you how much I value that question because I feel like that's。
the intersection that an institution like CJST has to live in itself, and then certainly。
every church has to live in exactly the tension that you're describing, and sometimes you。
have pastors, whatever their age, whether they're really a lot older than you or less。
older than you, who, in their own character before God, are ready to be learners and not。
just dominators, right?。
So I would say, you know, the great challenge of senior leadership is that it is often preoccupied。
with itself and with its own history and with its own stature rather than with the character。
of God or with the work that's going on really in the life of a much younger person who's。
doing probably what they did when they were that age, which was to try to figure out how。
do all these pieces fit together, right?。
So I think your experience could be validated probably by all of us, regardless of our age,。
because we've been in circumstances like this at some point in our lives, right?。
And I do think it does involve humility on both parts.。
You can't control the humility of someone else, but you can control your own humility.。
You can learn to be deferential.。
You can also learn the long view and not just the short view, meaning you can take the long。
story that eventually, first of all, this person will no longer be in charge, and you。
or someone will be in charge who's not going to be that person.。
And I do think it's helpful to give yourself time and not feel like this is urgent.。
There are things in the world that are urgent.。
Very few.。
There are urgencies, but they're very few.。
Instead, we're all on a really long road, and we're doing it together.。
And we have to take that long road together.。
So let's stay as tight as we can.。
Let's grow in trust.。
So if an older person maybe doesn't even know you, and you are asking a critical question,。
then that's going to be really, really different than if they've actually come to know who。
you are.。
They understand that you're a person, let's say, as you suggest to me that you might be,。
a person who's a serious question asker, a person who's not going to take easy answers,。
who's going to press for something more.。
That's how you're wired, which it seems like maybe you are.。
If you are wired that way, which I see is a good thing, then you have to take responsibility。
for that.。
That's a personality trait.。
It's a style of living.。
Not everybody has to live that way to be a good and faithful person.。
So how do you learn to grow while you're learning to wait and listen and try to understand?。
But how do you also learn to grow so that they actually have a chance to know you, not。
as just a critical question asker but as a more comprehensive person?。
Great great great question.。
I'm sorry that we can't go on.。
>> Thank you so much.。
>> Time is running out.。
Maybe we allow one last question, all right?。
>> How would the church show its relevance to LGBTQ communities?。
>> Yeah, how does the church show its relevance to LGBTQ communities?。
Well I think you show relevance to that community as much as any other community by compassion。
and mercy and love and empathy and curiosity and just anything that you would extend to。
any other community.。
And I think you do that by really listening.。
This is where not why are you LGBTQIA but how did it come about that you came to the。
discovery that you are LGBTQIA, for example.。
That's a story invitation rather than an answer yes and no on off kind of question.。
Let me tell you a story of a church in the San Francisco Bay area, a young church, mostly。
people in their 20s and 30s, and a church that holds a conservative and traditional。
view on LGBT issues.。
So in San Francisco Bay area where LGBT issues are extremely prominent, they maintained this。
kind of traditional view.。
But they thought to themselves and said, you know, we don't think just holding that opinion。
is actually what matters.。
What matters is are we willing to love people that we're uncomfortable with.。
So some of them had coworkers that were LGBTQ, some of them had neighbors that were family。
members that were.。
So they decided to pray as a church that God would grant them generous opportunities to。
be with people who are LGBTQIA so that they would just come to know them, not in that。
single lens but as in every dimension of their lives, including that they were LGBT.。
So that went on for a year, and then they decided that there is in San Francisco, Golden。
Gate Park in San Francisco, there's a memorial.。
It's called the HIV Memorial Park, and it was a part of this much larger park that was。
set aside to honor especially the deaths of many people from HIV/AIDS.。
So they decided that a few of them would go on a kind of reconnaissance tour to visit。
that part of the park to talk to people who might be there.。
They understood that there was an LGBT day of people coming to clean up that part of。
the park.。
This wouldn't be needed, of course, in Hong Kong where everything would be spotless to。
begin with, but since that would not be true of Golden Gate Park, they had an annual time。
to clean up that part of the park.。
So they would gather, and they decided that they as a church would go and join in this。
effort to clean up this part of the park.。
And then they said, "Well, how is the gardening done just regularly?。
This only happens once a year, so how does the regular gardening happen?"。
They said, "Well, we don't really have anybody to do that, and the government doesn't pay。
for it."。
So they said, "Oh, well, then we'd like to come and clean up this area every month.。
This is a considerable distance, this is probably 40 miles from where this church is actually。
located," because they were in another part of the Bay Area.。
So every month, they went as a group to clean up that area of the park.。
And as they did that, of course, they became friends with all the people that were coming。
there to honor their friends or family members who had died with HIV/AIDS.。
So much trust was built with this group, and they knew that this church was not pro-LGBTQIA,。
but the church was not there to make a stand about their position on LGBT.。
It was to actually just love people for whatever reasons and circumstances are in this place.。
So amazingly, the people that are kind of the official people that oversee this part。
of the park, who are all LGBT people, said, "We have this big annual gathering in the。
park where we invite everyone around the whole United States, or the world, if they want。
to come there, to come to a weekend where the AIDS quilt, which you may know about,。
this gigantic quilt, is there, and then we have special events in this part of the park.。
Would you be willing to organize and host that for us?"。
So that no LGBTQIA people had to themselves do this.。
This would just be done for them.。
So imagine the trust that had grown that they would say, "We're going to turn our event。
over to you, who don't affirm our life, our lifestyle, our circumstances, but we've learned。
to trust you.。
You have loved us.。
We have learned to love you.。
We would like you to come."。
So for five years, before it shifted to another group that needed to make these decisions,。
for five years that church hosted that annual gathering.。
Now when I think about the LGBT issue, I think about that.。
I think about an AIDS hospice in San Francisco that used to listen together to sermons that。
I was preaching that were carried on the radio.。
And I just knew one person was there, but he invited me to come and meet with this whole。
group of people, all of whom died of HIV/AIDS within the next year and a half from the first。
time I visited them.。
In this group, all of them had come from Christian families whose families had rejected them.。
So they were a family together, and they struggled in their dying with how to make peace with。
their faith because the people that they knew best were the people that had most rejected。
them.。
Their Christian family parents, grandparents.。
So I went and periodically met with them, and over the course of that year, almost every。
time I went, more people had died until eventually every single person in that group had died.。
And it was a story, again, of just trying to be present, trying to be compassionate.。
I was never put in a position of having to explain or justify myself.。
I take a traditional view.。
So it was an example.。
These are both examples to me.。
I was led to do that, what I did, because of the example of this church.。
I thought, well, if they can do that, surely I can just show up and be present, pray with。
them while they were dying, because they didn't know any other Christian person that would。
do that.。
So there are lots of ways, unexpected ways.。
Are we praying for opportunity?。
Are we praying for compassion so that it's not an object but really an act of love?。
You're just trying to love them.。
That's all you're trying to do.。
And yeah, so that was a very important experience for me.。
>> Radical love.。
>> Yeah.。
>> Just a footnote.。
CGST student body has invited the pastor of a pro-LGBTQ pastor actually to come and speak。
to the students once.。
But unfortunately, that church hasn't invited me or any teachers to preach at that church.。
[ Laughter ]。
>> There's time.。
>> So unfortunately.。
>> There's still time.。
[ Laughter ]。
>> Okay.。
Now, sorry about that, because time is running out, we can't allow any more questions.。
So I must say, we thank you for Mark, Jackie, and Keane, your sharing is excellent and edifying。
to us.。
And also welcome all your questions.。
And I think that the discussion is really, really good.。
So thank you once again for coming, and may I ask Dr. Kamphai-Yu to say a closing prayer.。
[ Laughter ]。
>> Come on, come on, come on.。
[ Laughter ]。
>> Yeah.。
>> Let us pray.。
Lord we thank you for tonight's sharing.。
We know that you are here with us.。
We are challenged to be relevant, not merely to the world, but to be relevant to you, to。
be relevant to the gospel.。
Most too often we have forgotten, when we are doing theology here at this institution,。
we have to remind ourselves that theology is a science of critique, a critique whether。
we are faithful to your word.。
And being faithful to your word means faithful to the word incarnate.。
And the first thing we have to ask ourselves is whether our theology is really faithful。
to the word incarnate.。
Does our theology reflect incarnation, the embodiment of your truth?。
Before we bring the critique to the proclamation of the gospel, let us have reflection, deep。
reflection on the way we do theology, on the way we do theological reflection.。
Before we set our eyes on the world, preparing to bring some critique to them, let us set。
our eyes to ourselves, to our theological endeavor, and to the church.。
Lord, help us to be humble, to be compassionate.。
Help us to be true to the word incarnate, that we are ourselves the incarnate word.。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
Let's put our hands together and thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.。
