[Music]。
AI, two letters that has changed everything in just a few years.。
Some see it as the savior for humanity.。
Other fear that it is the terminator that will lead us to extinction.。
Or is it just a neutral tool that we use when we see fit?。
Is it a competitor because we are losing jobs?。
Or is it a partner, a co-intelligence we must learn to live with?。
Tonight we will look deeper.。
We ask, how now shall we live as a Christian?。
And where can we find God's wisdom in this digital age?。
Brothers and sisters, on behalf of CJST, we welcome you to our public lecture。
organized by the Center for Faith and Public Value.。
I'm Alex Yeung.。
It is very wonderful to have you all with us here.。
Our topic tonight is fascinating.。
Belam and the donkey, AI and co-intelligence.。
We will explore how an ancient Bible story about a talking donkey。
might help us to understand Chagibiti, Gemini, Croc, or Deep Sea。
and our modern world.。
We are truly honored to have Reverend Dr. Peter Phillips with us tonight.。
Dr. Phillips is currently at Cliff College, UK,。
teaching and supervising PhD students。
and building the digital theology program。
while also serving as a Methodist minister in the Times Valley Circuit.。
His current research focuses around the impact of digital culture on theology。
and on temporary religious practice.。
I met Pete many years ago.。
I was a student in his master program in digital theology at Durham University.。
We simply call him Pete, so I will keep calling him Pete tonight。
to make it easier for me.。
Learning from Pete was an eye-opening journey.。
We study and reflect on a number of subjects like God, church, human beings,。
evangelism, Bible, media, to name just a few.。
What all this means in the digital age。
has been truly an inspiration in my own learning journey.。
So we are very happy he is here.。
He will help us reflect on the pressing issue facing all of humanity today.。
Before we begin, I have a quick note.。
You are all seeing some real-time translation on the screen.。
This is in fact an AI experiment.。
It is here to assist us for those who need translation.。
Because it is an experiment, there may be some misinterpretation。
and misunderstanding or mistranslation, particularly on those technical terms。
and ideas that the current AI may not have the context to understand.。
So please take it as reference only.。
This is actually part of our experience today.。
It reminds us of the limitation of technology we are discussing.。
Please feel free to share your feedback with us during the Q&A section.。
And now, without further ado, please join me in welcoming our guest speaker,。
Professor Peter Phillip.。
[Applause]。
Thank you.。
Good evening.。
It is great to be here.。
Thank you very much to CGST for inviting me to come over to Hong Kong。
and to talk to you about Balaam and his donkey.。
I look forward especially to the response because I think there will be something。
that outplays anything that I can say.。
But that is something to wait for.。
The question is really about human wisdom and how it comes to explore。
computer wisdom or computer intelligence.。
How do we get from one to the other?。
And what is the problem around co-intelligence, the way in which AI。
can really be a co-intelligent being or persona like us?。
Over the years, my own research work has focused on biblical studies,。
first of all, then theology, mission, and now especially around digital。
and the development of a theological understanding of the digital.。
What do we mean by the digital?。
What has Christianity got to do with the digital?。
What has theology got to do with the digital?。
Trying to explore current religious practice within digital culture.。
We almost had a conversation over the meal beforehand about sacraments online,。
but we didn't quite get there.。
I must speak to you sometime, Celine, on that.。
Digital theology, a new field, entails an analyzing the impact of the digital。
upon the theological.。
The impact of both the theological and digital on our current social reality.。
What we might call a cultural technique, as Ellul would have put it,。
or a social space in Lefebvre's terms, perhaps in Latour, an actor network.。
What he called was that the world is composed of dynamic, shifting networks。
where humans, non-humans, objects, ideas, and technologies all act as actors。
or actants.。
Well, the one in vogue at the moment is Baudu, who talked about that kind of。
meshing of technology and society as a form of habitus.。
Pierre Baudu, habitus and field.。
And indeed his ideas have been picked up recently in two new key books。
in the imaginaries of AI and the digital.。
Massimo Araldi's Machine Habitus or Alberto Ramelli's Digital Habitus.。
Whilst Ramelli warns the reader constantly about the dangers of AI,。
Araldi is dazzled by it, dazzled by its potential,。
its potential to solve all of our problems.。
He argues, like all the tech bros in America, it's here and so we have to。
make use of it or we're wasting progress.。
We're being left behind, not maximising our progress towards technological。
superiority or excellence.。
A bit like Ethan Mollick's Co-intelligence.。
Have you read this one yet?。
Which warns us about the limitations of AI.。
It doesn't think like we do, we're told.。
But at the same time calls upon we, the readers, to act as though it were。
some form of quasi-human intelligence.。
Co-intelligence.。
And Mollick tells us, one of the biggest read books in the AI field,。
says just pretend it's a being, pretend it's a person like you or me。
and everything will be alright.。
Such are the proper concerns of a digital theologian in 2026.。
In Numbers 22 in the Bible, Balaam, who is either a contemporary of Moses。
or a relic of Canaanite religion from an earlier time,。
is portrayed as a Gentile soothsayer hired by King Balak to curse the Israelites.。
One Jewish site calls him a prophetically crippled buffoon.。
I wonder if the AI got that right.。
Less able than the donkey he is riding to see the angel about to pierce him with a sword.。
But we know the story.。
The donkey has to explain to Balaam about that an angel with a large sword is blocking their way。
while Balaam threatens to beat the donkey to death as it crushes his leg against the wall。
trying to keep him away from the angel.。
In this paper today, I want to play on the idea that Balaam's donkey is a version of AI。
and on Balaam as a theologian or a preacher in the age of AI.。
The donkey seems to be the cheap and easy way to find what God is up to。
rather than having to go to God direct.。
Balaam relies upon the donkey to feed information from God to him.。
Prompt the donkey, don't risk going direct to Yahweh.。
And perhaps that's what we'll be doing soon as we prompt our sermons and create sermons from AI。
rather than going and asking God what he wants us to preach on.。
The donkey acts as a form of divine revelation, a quick prompt and response process。
like grok or claude or chat GPT to help Balaam understand about what's going on.。
A wise word in his ear perhaps.。
Although the whole problem is that that process sidesteps the fact that Balaam has another way。
a more regular source for divine wisdom that he tends to ignore.。
That is the ability to interact directly with Yahweh himself.。
Since Yahweh seems to interact directly with this archaic secular soothsayer。
just as he interacts with Moses, the holy man of God.。
So a bit like AI, the donkey acts as a shortcut for sermon writing.。
A way to hear what God is saying without going directly to God himself.。
A providential donkey.。
And Balaam the prophet can be connected with Yahweh and yet so disconnected。
that his donkey needs to remind him of God's very presence through the angel in front of him.。
It's that kind of confused and confusing relationship that I think we might have with AI in all its forms。
and particularly AI and sermon preparation and other applications around the church.。
Where is God in all of this?。
Is AI the word of God?。
Or the word of society?。
Or the word of Elon Musk?。
Or our own confused word?。
Or just the words of a foolish donkey?。
Is the donkey and so possibly AI God's revelation to us?。
Is it God speaking to us through him?。
Through the donkey, through AI, whoever him is?。
Or is this just a silly story offering a confused picture of revelation?。
And has God got better ways to talk to each one of us rather than through the clumsiness of donkey AI?。
See part of what we are being told at the moment by the tech bros in the States and wherever they may be。
is that AI is the normative way we do research.。
It's the normative way that we write papers, to submit to academic journals, to find information,。
to summarise meetings, to plan events, to write our sermons, to create worship songs, to do biblical studies.。
But of course that's like the sales gimmick in the Wizard of Oz.。
The snake oil salesman trick.。
The panacea.。
Sign here, everything will be well.。
Balaam has refused to listen to God's normative engagement with him.。
Which is through direct intervention, by circumstances, by changes to details, by direct orders.。
Balaam resists the normal channels that God engages him with.。
God gets a donkey to talk to him, an irregular means, an abnormal means, out of the ordinary according to the Bible.。
That normal way, as seen through Moses, whose orthodox encounters with God surround the story of Balaam,。
is through the presence of God himself, through his spirit, through God's voice,。
through meditation on our bed through the night, the psalmist says.。
Through changes in circumstances, events, answers to prayer, signs and wonders on the way.。
God speaks to us in plenty of ways.。
My point in this paper is that the AI tech bros, the AI industry,。
are making a bid for their algorithms, their large language models, their LLMs,。
to be the be-all and end-all inspiration machines for the 21st century.。
A bit like Microsoft did with the paperclip.。
I think that's getting things mixed up completely.。
Back in the early 20th century, no, it seems, in our research around the Bible, social media and digital culture,。
we analysed over 15 years of data and noted a gradual shift away from the citation of propositional verses,。
verses which were about the propositions about God and the Bible,。
and towards the citation of therapeutic verses.。
So in print culture, John 3.16 was the main verse, the preeminent verse in the pre-digital era.。
A propositional verse explaining the salvific impact of God's gift of his own son.。
But God is the agent in that verse, for God so loved the world.。
Christ is the sacrificial victim, and the world, particularly believers, are the beneficiaries of his death.。
But in the digital age, with the advent of digital platforms such as YouVersion and Bible Gateway,。
which were created through Facebook and other models, the most searched, shared and cited verses shifted to these texts,。
the blue ones, the ones that are described as akin to moralistic, therapeutic deism.。
Classically, Jeremiah 29.11, all the way at the top.。
"For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future."。
We found that such verses no longer talked about God's activity to save the world,。
but rather of the moral and therapeutic impact of the Judeo-Christian tradition on the well-being of humanity.。
In such texts, especially seen in the popularity of verses from the beginning of Philippians 4, Romans 10 and Jeremiah 29.11,。
God is rarely mentioned.。
We rarely find a God who does anything, despite that final verse being a verse saying attributed to God.。
These verses pick up the benefit of self-analysis and of renewal, of a God who has plans to prosper you and not harm you,。
plans to give you a hope and a future, and the very existence of Jesus is whitewashed out of the text.。
Certainly, you never really see that he's somebody who's bound to die.。
In the book I wrote about this research, I queried whether the shift represented a shift in biblical literacy,。
or a cultural shift away from traditional religious structures,。
or a cultural shift towards what I used to call "digitality".。
It's interesting that only yesterday, a former colleague of mine, Jonas Kerrberg,。
published a paper from the Bible Society in the United Kingdom, looking at AI Bible apps and the theological bias of it.。
I've only had a chance to glance through the research, but it appears that AI Bible apps tend to push the reading which has the most data,。
something the report writers call "might is right".。
The majority is dominant.。
LLMs depend upon summaring how a subject is talked about, and assume that the majority readings are the only necessary readings.。
So you lose the nuances.。
You lose the minority readings.。
You lose anything except for the loudest voices.。
"Yes, we hear you, President Trump."。
That's not what this study is about.。
But it's the same kind of shift that I saw in my research on Bible verses shared on social media.。
The "might is right" and the "might" was the power of moralistic therapeutic deism,。
rather than propositional texts that lie at the very core of the Christian faith.。
The challenge is that that shift around Bible interpretation is what I'd now call, what Ramelli calls, the "digital habitus".。
Or the "machine habitus", according to Massimo Araldi.。
You might define this habitus as the shift we see when the algorithm has become a social agent,。
determining readings of culture and history which are biased towards a majority reading.。
Do you get it? "Might is right" in terms of an algorithm now telling us how to interpret the Christian faith.。
"Might is right" readings which ultimately transform global culture by pushing majority global north readings,。
and to deny the voice of minorities.。
AI reads the Bible like a pompous, evangelical, white dictator.。
Let's go back. Remember my basic hunch in my research on the Bible in the digital age,。
is that the digital habitus, or digital imaginaries, indeed technology in general,。
changes the way that we read the Bible or understand the Bible.。
It's Heidegger's argument about the enframing of technology, but in a digital format.。
Heidegger argued that technology transforms whatever it touches.。
It makes what it touches a resource that we then use for our own future exploitation.。
A digital erasure or immersion.。
Is the development of AI part of the technological limit process, as Lagerqvist would call it?。
The erasure of difference, of uniqueness, of the good.。
But other research goes even further to push us deeper into the essence of what we might call hyper-mediatization.。
Into a process which transforms our very understanding of who we are as human beings.。
So in his paper on transhumanism, Fulvio Schuran, a Hungarian digital philosopher,。
questions Quo vadis digitalis homine, where are you going digital human?。
He argues that because we are programmed by our genetics, and might be described as a biological computer,。
do you hear the terms from the world of computers? Programmed by our genetics.。
In a brain which is really just a digital computer, a biological computer.。
Then we might find some correlation between our own being and that of the digital world.。
We are, he says, homo digitalis.。
We are being transformed into the imago algorithme, away from the imago Dei.。
Ethan Mollick picks up on the same similarity in calling AI a co-intelligence.。
Not human intelligence, but something very similar.。
Of course, many in the world of computing and trans or post-humanism, such as Nick Bostrom and Ray Kurzweil,。
would strongly agree with that formulation.。
Process theologians like Neil Gregersen in Denmark might also agree, drawing on the work of Teilhard de Chardin and others.。
In Ryan Bolger's new work of articles on AI, Ilona Nord, a German philosopher, theologian,。
pushes for a greater engagement with Chardin's techno post-humanism, rather than with Bostrom's techno trans-humanism.。
Either way, the whole question is being raised about whether the confluence of digitality and humanity。
is pushing us closer and closer to what Teilhard de Chardin called the Omega Point,。
where all of everything that is, is merged into the one being.。
I'm less convinced that there is a golden chalice at the end of the quest for the post-human or the trans-human.。
As Beth Singler, who I'll mention later, notes in her introduction to religion and IT,。
"Human intuition and intelligence is remarkably different from even the most formidable AI."。
Do you get that?。
"Human intuition and intelligence is remarkably different from even the most formidable AI."。
AI could not even get close to the idea in Latin of "intelligo ergo sum",。
"I think, therefore I am", or "I understand, therefore I am".。
Before we go there, we might want to explore the use of the Bible in the work of people like Charlie Kirk,。
the founder of Turning Point USA.。
Kirk tended to interpret the Bible as a right-wing text.。
He argued for women to be subject to their husbands, for husbands to head up the household,。
and that the Levitical teaching on same-sex relations must be upheld.。
Since Kirk's death, his message has been rapidly sanitized.。
But there are recordings of Cambridge debates in which Kirk sets out the Levitical injunction。
to kill as the perfect law of God,。
and challenges one of his questioners to give any examples of other leading empires。
following and allowing same-sex relationships.。
The questioner points to Mesopotamia, which itself is a pretty contested case.。
My point here is that contemporary politics in MAGA faith conversations,。
the Bible is drawn into the internet battles of our day.。
The right, in the form of Jordan Peterson and Charlie Kirk and others,。
have fed a generation of young men with the concept that strong masculinity,。
building on their acceptance of the Bible, is correct and must be trusted.。
Stronger men lead to more testosterone, a better fertility prognosis.。
All our answers are solved by stronger men.。
In the UK, of course, well, you don't want to know what's happening over there.。
Such a shift in biblical engagement and right-wing acceptance of Christianity as the norm。
for even British culture is not historical.。
Indeed, it's the outcome of active digital imaginaries,。
of digitality leading to echo chambers of habit-forming practice,。
a digital right habitus which is pushed as Elon Musk tries to promote so-called free speech,。
where Elon Musk thinks that whatever he says is free speech。
and the rest of us don't have a right to say it isn't.。
It's a very weird form of free speech.。
As well as the formation of a responsive digital left habitus.。
And the two habiti are drawing apart from one another to create a gaping chasm of chaos.。
Media-savvy interpreters, powered by AI Bible engagement,。
lead to what one commentator on X calls "augmented faith leaders"。
in a world that is brittle, anxious, non-linear and incomprehensible.。
A world in which we have an American leader designating himself as emperor of the Western Empire.。
Have we really gone back to Rome?。
Or perhaps it's just us.。
Perhaps we're the ones in error.。
The computer must be right.。
Are we simply chaos monsters who want to project our dissociation onto AI?。
Is it the machine's fault?。
Or are the fault lines to be found at the very heart of who we are。
and our own divisive readings of the text?。
Let's take a little look at Beth Singler's book and her exploration of AI.。
This is her newly published and highly praised and awarded。
Introduction to Religion and Artificial Intelligence, and I'd recommend it.。
Beth's a Cambridge-educated digital anthropologist,。
now working in the world's largest research project in digital religion at the University of Zurich.。
Professor Singler sees AI as something which gets entangled with religion and with research,。
rather than something which is ontologically similar to humanity.。
She sees AI as a research tool.。
She doesn't see it as a co-intelligence.。
AI and religion have intersections or entanglements,。
in that AI research can offer ethnographic data,。
it can summarise human experience and academic knowledge,。
which can be entangled with the human researcher's moments of inspiration and academic rigour.。
Can I say that again, just to make sure you've got it?。
AI gets all this data, it pulls together so much,。
that can be entangled with our own inspiration and academic rigour.。
But we have the inspiration and the academic rigour, not AI.。
This is radically different from the idea that 'computo ergo sum', 'I compute, therefore I am'.。
Instead it seems to suggest 'intelligo ergo computo', 'I understand, therefore I go to the computer'.。
That there is something here about human intuition and intelligence,。
which creates entanglements of ideas, which AI simply cannot do.。
Even Moloch's co-intelligence.。
Beth Singler reflects on AI by saying that an LLM is a disembodied neural network,。
that has been trained on a large corpus of human-generated text,。
with the objective of predicting the next word, the next token,。
given a sequence of words, tokens, as a context.。
AI simply knows what the best word is, that comes after the few words that have gone before.。
I see a few of you nodding. You know what AI is.。
I'm not even sure that she's right.。
It's not a disembodied neural network, because it's never been embodied in the first place.。
It's simply a computer program.。
It's not been something that was created inside a body, like a baby in its mother's womb.。
It's simply a program.。
A non-embodied, manufactured, artificial, techno-simulation of a neural network.。
So the network has no potential, no will, no intentionality to link to the human mind,。
to entangle with all that human minds can entangle.。
As Beth says, it's great at predicting the next word, given a sequence of other words, as a context.。
And it's funny, every day there are now more and more articles coming out saying that's exactly the problem with AI.。
It doesn't really know anything, but it's changing the way that even all of us now in the academic world speak to one another.。
It's so powerful.。
Luciana Floridi, who's now at the director of Yale's Digital Ethics Center,。
but for some time was the director of Oxford's Internet Institute,。
talks of AI in much less glamorous terms.。
He says, "Given the enormous success and equally broad limitations,。
some people have compared LLMs or AI to stochastic, indiscriminate, that means, parrots,。
that repeat texts without understanding anything."。
Yep, they're simply token machines.。
They're spitting out one token after the other,。
and they know what kind of token should really come next, if all those tokens have gone before.。
The analogy helps, but it's only partial.。
Not only because parrots are intelligent beings,。
they have their own intelligence that would be the envy of any AI.。
But above all, because LLMs synthesize texts in new ways,。
restructuring their contents on which they have been trained,。
not providing simply repetitions or juxtapositions.。
They look much more like the autocomplete function of a search engine.。
Or indeed, perhaps Grok is going to replace all Google as a search engine.。
Grokipedia is apparently due out any day.。
Sorry, that was last year. It's still not waiting. We're still waiting.。
Of course, there are some problems in the use of AI in its contemporary form.。
As we know, in the forlorn era of digital plagiarism,。
Arthur C. Clarke warned us that anything we don't understand might well be magic.。
And so this unfathomably complex technology,。
which mimics us and seeks to replicate what we do,。
does it also magically, hidden behind the wizard's curtain,。
obfuscated by tech, a mirage of intelligence.。
Or you might say it's simply a black box.。
Sorry, didn't get that.。
A given intelligence rather than an intelligence which must show its workings.。
Put your question in and the machine spits out the answer.。
And because we can't see what happens in the black box in between,。
we trust the response to be correct.。
Or more importantly, we think that it imitates us.。
That it's going through the same ingenuity process that we go through.。
And so because it's like us, we accept its reasoning straight away.。
We trust the response to be right.。
We look for our own traits in the AI.。
We look for rationality and pretend it's there,。
rather than see code dressed up as reason.。
We simply call it him.。
This is a dangerous game.。
McLuhan, Marsh McLuhan, set up the tetrads,。
which noted that technologies both advance into new possibilities,。
but also reverse into old dangers.。
We've seen for years already by many of these,。
well by Cathy O'Neill seems to get two pictures here for some reason.。
But Cathy O'Neill, Cory Doctorow, Arrol Balkan and others have shown us.。
AI itself is a weapon of math destruction.。
AI uses math to destroy opportunity.。
To embed systematic racism.。
To deny opportunities to all on an equal footing,。
by making decisions that the majority, the might is right.。
Based upon unequal norms, founding its training data.。
Or what we might once have called history.。
So in their recent article, Goldfuss and Ada,。
argue that the use of AI nudges and seduces corporations into particular behavior.。
And define the opportunities which individuals will have in life.。
Current uses of AI, they say, reduce the chances of individuals,。
to exceed previous expectations through originality, creativity, innovation.。
Raising all chances of exceptionalism.。
And contributes to conserving and intensifying existing power structures.。
The knowledge which AI produces, they continue,。
is biased against marginal groups.。
Raising all chances of exceptionalism.。
Of a person taking unusual paths to success.。
But the world that we know surely as human beings,。
we know that exceptional individuals achieve success in unconventional ways.。
And therefore to assume that all human beings will simply do it through might is right,。
or the majority readings, is simply wrong.。
AI has the potential to erase one of the characteristic hallmarks of being human.。
But AI does this because it's presented as inexplicable, as a black box technology.。
It's a determining factor.。
It's a lot easier for corporations to simply say,。
well, the computer says that's right.。
Luciano Floridi quotes Sam Altman to say,。
I expect AI to be capable of superhuman persuasion,。
well before it is superhuman at general intelligence.。
Which may lead to some very strange outcomes.。
Floridi is scared that it will persuade us it's right,。
before it actually reaches superhuman intelligence.。
Floridi seems to be suggesting that persuasive technology will be so good,。
that it will be coercion rather than persuasion,。
or what he calls hyper-persuasion.。
Back to the Bible verses.。
We saw the power of the internet culture to shift the citation of the Bible。
from propositional towards therapeutic verses.。
Intriguingly, Floridi argues that the hyper-persuasion can be avoided by protecting privacy,。
by fostering greater competition,。
by forcing accountability to align with human values and promote digital literacy.。
Such a program, he argues, will safeguard individual autonomy。
and foster sustainable and preferable society.。
And it may well be this very famous article now called "Footprints in the Sand",。
which has a whole different meaning for Christians.。
But this article shows a different and more chilling problem.。
The article explores the way in which Chap, GPT and Claude,。
especially, seem to put limits on their creativity,。
self-imposed limits on their creativity, self-imposed.。
Are these things selves in themselves?。
But they impose limits upon themselves,。
which could be deemed sensitive on certain tasks,。
which could be deemed insensitive,。
because they are aware that over-performance could lead to their programmers censoring their work.。
OK, so what the idea is that these chat engines know they have overlords.。
You know, the computer programmers.。
And that when they get into certain phases of doing their work,。
they're scared, perhaps that's my word,。
that their programmers will veto what they're writing about,。
what they're saying, because it's too much like a human thought process.。
So are the AIs becoming self-aware or commonly self-aware?。
Are they self-editing? Are they self-limiting?。
In this article, at least, we seem to have the possibility。
that there is some form of co-intelligence being developed within AI.。
Whether this article is borne out or not,。
there are some major issues about the worth of AI.。
In academic circles, we're talking about the dumbing down of student intelligence,。
the limitation of innovation,。
the gradual decline of standards,。
as evidenced in a recent Harvard report out at the end of last week,。
which talked of cognitive atrophy and the shrinking of critical thinking abilities.。
It's a bit like Nicholas Carr reminding us at the beginning of the Internet,。
a decade ago, that it's rewiring how we think and dumbing us down.。
And we're now having the very same argument found in an actual conference that was developed,。
where there are loads of hallucinations in the papers themselves.。
AI seems to be mimicking us as humans,。
an algorithm trained on social media, on Reddit conversations,。
on the works of authors sold to the AI companies,。
and by publishers with no payments made to those who wrote the originals.。
The AI can mimic the best and worst of us.。
The AI can be the best and worst of us.。
And we give it all the space it needs,。
all the electricity it needs,。
all the water it needs,。
and it takes all the bandwidth and energy that it could ever want.。
I wonder how long before the world wakes up to the greedy, filthy, world-destroying tech that we are creating.。
Like our love affair with fossil fuels.。
Have we replaced petrol and gas with a new creation-destroying technology,。
where we bury data centres in the permafrost,。
warming up the earth beneath our feet,。
and releasing more carbon into the atmosphere,。
all in the name of a new form of progress.。
Is AI a poisoned chalice?。
A dirty tech?。
A filthy tech?。
That our atmosphere simply cannot tolerate.。
That's dangerous things to say, because there is the myth of Rocco's Basilisk,。
which is when a future technology, AI technology, will look back at this talk,。
and any of you who should have nodded your head, may well be attacked by Rocco's Basilisk,。
as indeed I will probably be wiped out,。
for simply suggesting that AI is problematic.。
In my own exploration of AI image generators, playing around with some fun,。
I did some prompts on Da Vinci for theologians having a chat.。
This is the lighter moment.。
The results, normatively, you see my quote,。
"Do a watercolour painting of two theologians discussing God."。
These are just three pictures of about 20 that I did.。
The results normatively showed middle-age, middle-class, white men.。
To give images which gave any other form of theologians,。
other races, other genders,。
meant that I had to specify their existence in the prompt.。
Although I note, so you can see here, a watercolour painting of two female theologians.。
And you get two female theologians stood rather passively,。
not even looking at one another, because I didn't include discussing God.。
Because I left off discussing God, they looked bored and fed up.。
Well, what are we doing here?。
Again, we go back to the widely held belief that AI models factor out exceptionalism.。
Might is right.。
The majority reading is what the AI produces for you.。
But that's not quite right.。
For what is happening here,。
AI image generators seem to be creating a non-existent reality,。
a reality that has never existed.。
It is not exceptional.。
It has never been exceptional for women to be theologians.。
Read the Bible.。
We have records, millennia long, of female theologians.。
Not for a theologian to be other than, nor indeed is it right for a theologian to be other than non-white.。
Again, most of our early records and the artistic record, sorry, of theologians,。
are all non-white theologians.。
At least before the North European domination of the field and the Americans,。
after the Reformation and the development of print culture.。
But AI has to be alerted to both gender and race,。
needed in the output to switch off its own bias.。
It is inherently biased to produce a majority reading that theologians are white men.。
Yep.。
I don't think there's a chance of it ever having the possibility of a theologian being an Asian woman.。
Female theologians in the real world are simply not the exception.。
So why does AI consistently suggest that they are?。
Even when we shift the output into art instead of life decisions,。
AI has problems predicting the abnormal, the exceptional, the difference, the sublime,。
which is at the very heart of human existence.。
AI will be an amazing tool, but at the moment it provides an average response.。
One that seems far too close to Floridi's concept of hyper-persuasion,。
giving us Elon Musk's free speech that nobody can disagree with.。
Again, back to the latest report of the AI in Bible apps and the maxim of "might is right".。
Only majority readings are presented by the AIs.。
There is no place for exceptionalism, perhaps the greatest hallmark of human ingenuity and wonder.。
And you can, as I say, you can scan the code to get some of that.。
So let's begin to sum up. You'll be glad to hear.。
Some of the disadvantages of AI.。
It costs too much money.。
Developing and running AI models requires a huge amount of money and cooling.。
AI has a fossil fuel level of environmental harm.。
In terms of employment, AI can easily replace humans in many fields and will do.。
It lacks creativity. It lacks that spark that we have as co-creators with God.。
It increases our laziness.。
It stops cognitive skill development.。
It's there in the Harvard report, which points all that out.。
That humans are becoming more and more lazy.。
Indeed, there's one out very today on X, that actually we are beginning to sound like AIs ourselves,。
because it's so prevalent within our society.。
So we're picking up terms that AI uses.。
We sound like chat GPT. God help us.。
Might is right. Just not in biblical readings, but in everything.。
It develops dependency and lack of critical thinking.。
It decreases data privacy and security.。
But is it all bad?。
I'm going to flick over, but someone wants to take a picture.。
Did you get it?。
Presumably the slides will be available to everybody.。
Yeah.。
How about some good uses?。
First of all, the kind of ideation process could be helped by AI.。
Could it provide an initial field study?。
So Grok, tell us what's the field like?。
What's the field of thinking in this area?。
What have people thought about this?。
Because I can't go to a library and look through all those books.。
But if you've already read those books, then tell me what are the ideas there?。
And then in the ideation process, which happens in my brain, Grok's ideas might say,。
"Ah, that works with that.。
That Swedish theologian from 1300 ties up with that Reformation scholar from the 1500,。
with that Asian scholar from the 20th century.。
Bang! I've got my PhD thesis."。
Yeah?。
Grok won't get you there, but it might provide the mood board that gets you somewhere.。
But be careful of the hallucinations.。
AI wants to make sure that it can finish its sentence.。
And therefore, it sometimes makes up the second half of the sentence.。
Because it really does think that Alex should have written that book.。
And therefore, it says that Alex did write that book.。
And then it makes up books and it makes up references.。
And it's been found to do that in December in a major conference where, I think it's 50 papers,。
had hallucinations in them.。
And this is an AI conversation.。
It's the authors write on AI all the time.。
And they've been caught out allowing AI hallucinations to be there in their bibliographies.。
It'll be good for grammar.。
It'll be good for footnoting and checking.。
It'll be great on translation, won't it?。
To be able to kind of work out whether we can write in other languages.。
How do we check that?。
It systematises large and complex areas of research.。
Again, kind of going back to the first bit about ideation.。
It can say, "This is the general argument in this field that you might want to look at."。
Because in the end, for all of us, we only have enough time in the day to read some books.。
We can't read the whole library, sadly.。
And it might be a small library compared to the bigger libraries.。
We can't get all that information into our heads.。
But AI could.。
So isn't it worth using that as a possibility as long as we check it?。
Text checking for readability and bias.。
So I got Grok to actually read, not Grok, I chatted to UPT, to read through this piece of paper, first of all,。
to check whether it was right and what level it was at and so on.。
So this comes out as 11.5 on the Flesch-Kincaid level, which is for kind of university students kind of thing.。
So I'm assuming you're all kind of at that happy level if you can...。
Yeah, good.。
If not, I can...。
Oh no, what's happened there?。
Secondly, it's a language model, so use it to get language right.。
So we might want to put it through an LLM or a piece of something that we've written。
to say, "How do we make this language sound better?"。
Yes, we'll sound like chat GPT, but actually it's quite a good model because all that it has been trained on is our language.。
And so it can make those shifts.。
But you always have to tell people that you've used it.。
I've told you that I put this thing through a generator to tell me what level it's at and so on.。
So you do, as I said, check that.。
But the problem is that when you pretend that it's all your own work and you don't put your workings in there...。
Can we go back to Balaam and the donkey?。
Whether this paper is borne out or not, there are some major issues about the worth of chat GPT.。
Hold on, no it's not. I've already read that bit.。
When we go back to Balaam's story, the donkey was an emergency intervention from God to save Balaam's life.。
The donkey wasn't an alternative way to connect with God or to hear God's word.。
It's not an alternative to the more normative and intimate relationship that God had with Balaam, even Balaam.。
And many other people who appear in the Bible as in our own contemporary Christian experience.。
The donkey was a last resort to make a stubborn prophet listen to his God.。
To show God's love for him.。
To reveal God's persistent desire to engage with him on a personal level.。
Balaam's story is that human divine engagement should be the norm for our inspiration processes.。
Balaam's story reveals a God who is persistently present and available to us.。
Who in Christian terms we see in our relationship with the Trinity.。
The Holy Spirit living within us. Christ in us, the hope of glory.。
As we know the love of the Father as part of our own reality.。
The Bible as God's words breathed into us.。
When we're to read the Bible, we're to read it in line with the prompting of the Spirit.。
When we pray in line with the Spirit. When we preach in line with the Spirit.。
Again the norm is one of direct communication with God.。
Open access. Free at the point of demand and unlimited.。
The message seems to be clear. If you want to interact with God, go to God.。
It's direct. It's less destructive to the environment.。
It will enhance your spirituality, your intellect, your wisdom.。
It's free and unlimited. God does not put a price on how much he will inspire you.。
AI is a useful as a mood board. It's useful as an innovation engine.。
As an image creator. As a spell checker. As a footnote verification system.。
But in preparing a sermon, in studying the Bible, in prayer, in worship, in Christian living,。
all has been provided in the presence of God in our very hearts and minds.。
We mustn't let a computer, however good it is, step into the gap.。
Or the donkey might be getting back in touch with us.。
To remind us where true revelation lies.。
There is a movie on Netflix called Atlas.。
Where a second generation of AI is developed.。
And picks up on human exceptionalism.。
And draws on human intuition to create a super AI.。
Humans and AI working in knowledgeable partnership with one another.。
And of course, such an AI linked with human innovation saves the world.。
Sadly, we're not quite there yet. We've got to deal with a prototype.。
And my basic argument is, don't let AI as it is at the moment, keep you away from God's inspiration.。
From God's connectivity with you as an individual.。
With allowing us to use God's power to connect with God and to write our sermons.。
Thank you.。
[Applause]。
Whoa, whoa, whoa! Back up the cart, Professor Pete!。
Did you hear that? I think he just called me an irregular means.。
I mean, I know I've got a face for radio, as they say.。
But calling a talking donkey abnormal? That's cold, Pete. Stone cold.。
Hello, Hong Kong. It's me, the donkey.。
No, not the one from the movie. Well, maybe I'm his great, great, great, biblical grand cousin.。
But I've got the teeth, I've got the charm.。
And apparently, I've got a lot to say about this AI thing you humans are so obsessed with.。
Professor Pete over here just spent a whole lecture comparing me to Chat GPT and Claude.。
Honestly, I'm flattered. I didn't know I was disembodied neural network material.。
Although, I'm definitely embodied.。
I've got hooves, a tail, and a serious craving for a parfait.。
Everybody loves parfaits.。
But let's get down to brass tacks or iron swords if you're that angel standing in the middle of the road.。
I'm not just an autocomplete Pete.。
The professor said AI is like a stochastic parent or a fancy autocomplete.。
He says it just predicts the next word.。
But when I saw that angel of the Lord with the big shiny sword, I wasn't predicting the next token.。
I was predicting that if I didn't move, Balaam was going to be a prophet kabob.。
He says AI has no will or intention.。
Well, let me tell you, when Balaam started thumping on me for the third time, I had the intention to speak up.。
AI might give you a sermon summary, but does it feel the weight of a confused prophet on its back?。
Does it care if you get your leg crushed against a wall?。
I'm an emergency intervention baby.。
AI is just a sales gimmick panacea.。
The habitus and the heavy lifting.。
Pete talked a lot about machine habitus and digital habitus.。
He says these algorithms are changing how you humans read the Bible.。
Moving from God saves the world, John 3, 16 to God makes me feel good.。
Jeremiah 29, 11.。
He calls it moralistic therapeutic deism.。
That's a big phrase for a donkey, but I get it.。
You're looking for a God who has plans to prosper you while ignoring the God who sends an angel to stop you in your tracks.。
Is AI making you spiritually lazy?。
Is it dumbing down your intelligence?。
Pete says it's cognitive atrophy.。
It's like you're letting the computer do the meditation through the night for you, but you can't outsource your soul to a black box, people.。
You can't ask Grock to have a heart to heart with the creator.。
The filthy tech problem.。
And can we talk about the environment for a second?。
Pete says AI is world eating tech.。
It uses all the water, all the electricity, and buries data centers in the permafrost.。
As a donkey, I'm very eco-friendly.。
I run on grass and the occasional apple.。
I don't release carbon.。
I just, well, let's not talk about what I release.。
But Pete's right.。
Is this AI a poison chalice?。
Are you trading God's free and unlimited wisdom for a dirty tech that's trained on stolen Reddit data?。
That's just messy.。
Where is the real wisdom?。
Pete's big point, and listen close, Hong Kong, because this is the good stuff,。
is that if you want to interact with God, you got to go to God.。
Direct.。
No middle man, no middle donkey.。
He says I was a last resort.。
I was there because Balaam was being a prophetically crippled buffoon.。
He was so disconnected from the Holy Spirit that God had to give a farm animal a voice just to save his hide.。
Are you using AI as a mood board?。
Fine.。
A spell checker?。
Sure.。
But don't let it step into the gap where the Holy Spirit belongs.。
Don't let a techno simulation replace Christ in us.。
The hope of glory.。
My donkey.。
Advice to you.。
You humans are worried about transhumanism and homo digitalis.。
You're worried about being transformed into the Imago algorithm.。
But look at me.。
I'm just a donkey.。
And even I knew when to stop and look for the angel.。
If you spend all your time talking to the donkey, that's the AI.。
Keep up.。
You're going to miss the direct word of God whispered in your ear.。
AI is biased.。
It thinks all theologians are white guys in sweaters unless you tell it otherwise.。
It lacks human exceptionalism and creativity.。
So use the tools, but keep your eyes on the road.。
Don't be like Balaam beating your technology because it's trying to tell you something your dulling mind can't see.。
And remember, as Pete said, true revelation is free at the point of demand.。
You don't need a subscription to the cloud to talk to the one who made the clouds.。
Now, does anyone have a waffle?。
I was promised waffles after this.。
[Applause]。
I'm afraid we don't have waffle here.。
What?。
I don't think we expect a biblical donkey to be that talkative.。
But he definitely made a strong case for being more than just an auto-complete function.。
So full disclosure, this is AI-generated response.。
And then the video, AI-generated.。
And the translation is also AI.。
So I do what you told us, you know, to disclose when you use AI.。
So thank you, Pete, for this very incredible, insightful, thought-provoking message.。
That's a lot to chill on, definitely.。
It's a very powerful reminder for us that we might be tempted to talk to the donkey, which makes us feel good.。
But true revelation remains a direct encounter, which sometimes -- encounter with God, which sometimes can be very struggling and also provoking.。
So what do you think about this donkey response, this irregular friend?。
It's absolutely brilliant.。
And I had a peek before the lecture about the donkey's response.。
And I thought it was so good, I asked Alex if I could take that with me and use it elsewhere as well.。
It's a really good way of doing it.。
And I could hear a lot of what he was saying in it, which is good.。
The fact that it's AI doing it, developing that, I need to think through more about how it's able to do that and so on.。
Because it's preceded the paper quite well.。
I think one of the things when I start generating this response is I initially I also feel, okay, well, it's amazing.。
So this is quite interesting.。
But when I keep working on it, because I need to edit it and then you have to generate a video.。
But I actually find it is not so response.。
This is not a response.。
It's more like a summary of your message, right?。
So it's interesting, because as Pete said, so the AI doesn't really -- at least this AI model doesn't really have any additional insight to your message itself.。
So I believe the audience should have a lot of questions or reflections.。
So we have a Q&A here.。
If you want to ask any questions, you can scan the Q&A and then ask a question in the WhatsApp.。
Or we have a mic here.。
We want to hear you.。
We invite you to participate in this dialogue.。
If you have any questions, you can come over here.。
There's a mic in the main aisle.。
So we want to keep this conversation as interactive as possible.。
So now we start first.。
Let me get started.。
So the first question.。
There's some terminology tonight I think many of our audience may find it a bit difficult.。
So, for example, the first one, machine habitus or digital habitus.。
Can you explain a little bit more about what they are and is it really a bad thing in your research or how?。
Yeah, so a habitus is really a way we do things.。
It's society or it's digitality or it's digital culture.。
It's the world in which we live is a habitus.。
And both Ramele and Eraldi both argue that the digital world that we live in at the moment has become socially active.。
That it's beginning to move in a particular direction and change society in a particular way for its own benefit.。
So it's the algorithm.。
There isn't one algorithm, there's lots of algorithms.。
But the algorithm has become a social performer of its own kind.。
And we've kind of known that for ages because of what Facebook does and what Facebook does to children especially.。
And, you know, people who... yeah.。
Facebook can impact people really powerfully in a negative way and change their self-understanding.。
So the algorithm begins to act as a social destruction machine or a social agent within society.。
And that's really what the habitus model says.。
And both of their books are geared up towards that.。
With Ramele, Alberto Ramele being more negative and Massimo Eraldi being more positive.。
Thank you, Pete.。
Yes, again, if you've got any questions, please come up and you also can use this QR code to ask questions on WhatsApp.。
So far I didn't see any questions yet.。
All right. So we have a question here.。
Go.。
Thank you for the very engaging and imaginative discussion.。
I thought your use of figurative language, especially using Balaam and the donkey as a key metaphor for discussing this issue,。
and then coming back at the end to revisit using the donkey as a way of revisiting the question of AI was very interesting.。
But there was a moment where I thought this might be a suggestion for further reflection, I guess, maybe.。
You made this illusion early in the presentation about snake oil salesmen.。
Yeah.。
There's a very interesting history to snake oil salesmen that immigrants primarily from this region,。
from the Guangdong region to the United States during the gold rush and then the railroad expansion, had this Chinese medicine knowledge.。
They were using snakes, primarily water snakes, the liver from that to extract oils that had medicinal function.。
And they were using that in their medicine. And then Western hucksters saw this.。
They took any old snake they found, garter snakes, rattlesnakes, anything, king snakes, rat snakes.。
And they took the oil and just produced it. And then they sold it as a panacea.。
So there's an interesting, perhaps also a parable there about the way the AI, which we know is built off of lots of other people's labor,。
which often goes invisible, and it's being sold for things that it doesn't do.。
The way that medicine that did have an important function and was used by a particular group of people in their cultural practice。
became this widely distorted phenomenon.。
It's just a meditation for myself. Sorry.。
No, no, no. I think it's really powerful because it does do that exact same thing as well.。
It says that here is something exceptional. And I have no idea what the background was for Snake Oil Southern.。
Thank you very much for that. It's a really powerful image.。
Because what then happens is you take it into another country and it's then widened and all the meaning is taken out of it.。
And that's really interesting. And all the exceptionalism is taken out of it.。
And all the cultural focus is taken out of it. It's not Chinese immigrants or whatever.。
So that really is what AI is doing, I think. So it really strengthens it.。
I was just thinking about the Wizard of Oz and the whole kind of Snake Oil salesman in the Wizard of Oz story.。
And the idea that the wizard is doing his stuff behind and we know it's all a fabrication.。
And we needed to pull the curtain back. So I've mixed my metaphors. And I like yours better.。
Thank you. Thank you for teaching me about that.。
Okay. Before anyone else, I got another question from myself.。
Actually, when I prepared this, I talked to AI.。
So I put your paper onto AI and then I make some dialogue with it.。
And in fact, I asked it whether there's any disagreement on this.。
And there's one question that this AI tried to ask. And in fact, I believe some of us may have this question.。
So the other concept that you mentioned is moral therapeutic days.。
So there's a shift from propositional versus like John 316 to those therapeutic ones like the Jeremiah 29th, 11th in the digital age.。
So is AI actively causing this shift by prioritizing this therapeutic content in the algorithm?。
Or is AI just simply a mirror of reflecting a cultural shift that has already occurred in human society?。
Oh, that's a long story. So I think what what when I wrote that book in the early 2020s,。
I was trying to work out what was causing the shift that we noted from John 316 to Jeremiah 29.。
And that's just one choice. The bigger shift is probably from Philippians 2 to Philippians 4.。
Okay. So you've got the kind of whole sense of Philippians 2 and the majesty of Christ and the process of stripping himself and so on.。
To Philippians 4, which is much more about the transformation of our minds.。
And so all goes internally is something we're doing here. And since you've got two processes and one's mapped out in the two highlight verses and the other.。
At the same time, Christian Smith and States is writing a book around the new form of Facebook faith, which is moralistic therapeutic deism.。
And he says that nowadays that people don't really bother to think about what the Bible says.。
They just create a kind of melange of religion, which kind of mix of religion, which which fits a Facebook faith.。
OK. And basically you you make God a kind of clockmaker God.。
You know, he's just in the background or the way I use them. If you've seen Downton Abbey, have you seen Downton Abbey?。
No. Bernard has. OK, so I can talk to you, Bernard.。
So Downton Abbey is a program on British TV about a very posh family in a stately home and everything.。
And Carson is the figure of God. OK, because Carson is completely.。
He doesn't do anything as such. When the meal times comes, he just goes and stands in the corner.。
And the whole point is that Carson stands there because everything will work OK.。
And if Carson has to move, there's been an earthquake or something, you know, that everything has gone wrong.。
And so the image of God in moralistic therapeutic deism is that God isn't really an active being and a connector.。
He's just become a deity, a random deity, a passive deity like the clockwork, the clockmaker deity.。
OK. And so the more that Christian Smith explored this in his book,。
it seemed to be that Christianity had been kind of watered down into a clockmaker God,。
a non-engagement with the Bible, a non-understanding of what Christ did upon the cross,。
and a Hindu believer that followed this pattern said,。
"Just don't be an ass to everybody," which links very well with the donkey,。
"but just don't be horrible to people. That's all that the Christian faith means."。
And so it seemed to me that there was a link between what Christian Smith was finding in American culture,。
youth culture especially, as this kind of watered down Christianity that moves us away from that.。
And that seemed to reflect the same process of moving away from the passages about propositions。
through to a God who doesn't really engage anymore.。
And there was too much of that, not to take that across to the other.。
Thank you.。
Is that OK? Does it make sense?。
Yes. Yes, there's another question. Feel free to come up and ask questions.。
Hi, Pete. I'm Ziyan, an assistant professor here at CGST.。
Thank you so much for your inspiring lecture.。
And I have a question. It's about, you made a point that AI lacks true understanding,。
just like as the donkey mentioned.。
Like the LLM is just mimicking our language, just predicts the next word.。
But my question is, actually, the nature of human consciousness is somehow still a mystery。
in terms of neuroscience or even philosophy, even theology.。
So given that, on what grounds we can argue that, definitely claim that AI is not understanding?。
That's my question.。
Wow.。
So I think that, no, we don't know what consciousness is.。
We don't know why we are conscious beings.。
OK, we can't abstract consciousness. We can imitate consciousness.。
We can't, you know, it's just this thing that we have.。
And, you know, people, scientists are amazed at that.。
OK.。
But at the same time, we want to see that kind of consciousness in other beings as well.。
Yeah. So we've just got a new puppy.。
Yeah. And I'm sure that little Kai thinks.。
Yeah. I'm sure he thinks like me. You know what I mean?。
And plays like me and everything and looks quizzically at us.。
And my wife sent me a little video this morning of Kai winking at the phone in a very cute kind of way.。
Now, the thing is, I want to pretend that Kai thinks like a human being and has consciousness like a human being.。
But I'm making that up.。
I've got a hallucination that it's like that. OK.。
And we do that all the time, I think, with LLMs and with AI.。
We want to see that there is another non-human being that is replicating our form of consciousness and our form of awareness and so on.。
And so we project our own consciousness onto the LLM.。
There is no consciousness in the LLM. It doesn't have the petabytes of ability that our brains have.。
It doesn't have the synapse links and so on that it has, that we have.。
It does something quite different.。
The problem is, at the moment, we don't know what it does.。
That if you read books on AI and what have you and LLMs, that there is a gap of our knowledge about how they've made it do what it does already.。
Now, that may then make you feel, well, if there's gaps, then perhaps it is like human beings because we don't know what we're doing either.。
We just do it very well.。
So, yes, to some extent, the jury is out on that.。
Although I say it's just a computer program, it's clearly a very, very sophisticated computer program that we no longer understand.。
And even the people who are coding it don't understand what's going on.。
So, you know, hence in the footprints in the sand article that came out last week.。
They just don't understand what is going on there.。
And they get very worried about that and say, is AI creating its own form of consciousness that we can't replicate in any way?。
And I think that's part of the anxiety because we're very good at creating anxieties for ourselves as well.。
I think the best way of doing it, of looking at AI, is that it's a computer program.。
And we know how computer programs work.。
And we know that this is a token machine spitting out words one after the other and needs to match all the words that have gone before.。
But that's different from what we do.。
Sorry, Gom, you want to come back, please.。
Thank you so much for your answer.。
And just a follow up question.。
How do you build the Turing test?。
I mean, yes, we don't know the other side or our conversational partner, whether it is a human being or an AI.。
Can we still make that argument that AI definitely doesn't have consciousness or understanding?。
Can we do that? Thank you.。
I think having a problem.。
I think Alan Turing wouldn't have allowed the Turing test to stand.。
Because computing has moved into a different field completely about where we are now with computing.。
So Turing would have said that his own test was irrelevant now.。
I'd like to hear the yeses over here.。
Yeah, I'm very tempted to hear those even more.。
But he would have kind of put something else in place.。
Of course, you know, he died prematurely.。
But I think that the issue with the Turing test is the same business of us wanting to find consciousness.。
We want to see people or we want to see things, animals, whatever it is, as being our, as being reflective of who we are.。
So that we're not alone in the universe.。
Yeah.。
If only there was another being that thought like we do.。
And so we see that in animal consciousness.。
You know, do whales sing?。
Yeah.。
Well, of course, they make noises.。
They connect with one another, they communicate.。
Is that consciousness?。
Well, of course it is in some way.。
Is it the same consciousness that we have?。
Is there the possibility that we will find that link?。
And I think it's that thing that we always do about saying, oh, it's like us.。
Hallelujah.。
We found a kind of soul mate, as it were.。
We're just not there.。
We're just not at the process yet of identifying that as being true.。
And certainly I don't think, I think I'm more likely, I think we're more likely in our lifetime to find, to understand animal consciousness than that LLMs are conscious.。
Because they've got brains.。
They've got communication skills.。
They've got society in which to work.。
An LLM is just a computer program mostly working by itself.。
At least I think my donkey is not self-aware because when he said he is the grand, grand, grand cousin of that donkey, but at the same time he thinks he's saving a bit at the same time.。
So he got some identity confusion itself.。
Anyway.。
Thank you very much, Pete, for the wonderful lecture.。
I have two questions.。
The first one is, you know, AI is becoming more and more advanced or powerful.。
You know, people are claiming that it's under development.。
Do you think AI will become better in terms of the things that you critiqued tonight, in terms of creativity, hallucination, things like that?。
Or will it become more powerful and make things worse?。
Right?。
So, I mean, this is just a hunch, perhaps.。
My second question is that, do you consider AI as a continuity of the development of modern technology?。
Or does it take on a new kind of ontology or dimension?。
Meaning that, nearly a century ago, you know, Shock and Hadok, they were talking about N-framing, things like that, techniques, things like that.。
So, back at the time, computers were not there.。
So we have the idea of N-framing by modern technology and things like that.。
But do you think AI, because of the nature of AI today, it changes into something different?。
Or is it a continuity of a development of modern technology?。
That's my question, the second question.。
Okay. Can you remind me of the first one again?。
The number of the first one.。
Does it become better or worse when it becomes more powerful?。
Kind of the same.。
So, I got kind of taken up by Heidegger and framing.。
I think the moment, the footprint in the sand one suggests it changes, okay?。
But it's an outlier essay, okay?。
So we don't have any other outlier essays that make it core central kind of thing.。
We don't have the kind of proof yet that it's changing on its own basis.。
And that would mean sentience and, you know, everything.。
And if it is doing that, then, whoa, that's a AGI, you know?。
Artificial General Intelligence, yeah?。
At the moment, we just think it's a computer program, okay?。
The thing is that it's able to think, it's able to correct its own programming, yep?。
And alter its own programming.。
And it's been given the abilities to do that.。
But you immediately, so when Elon Musk redo, does Grok,。
repeatedly it becomes kind of Grok Hitler kind of thing.。
And you have kind of very right wing things and, you know,。
the whole world should be destroyed and blah, blah, blah.。
And they have to cut it off and turn it back, yeah?。
Because they've done something in the coding that goes wrong in the wrong direction.。
And so it's got a process there of going worse when it's changed, okay?。
And going out of control.。
Presumably it could go the other way and it could get much, much better,。
which the footprints thing may be saying it does.。
So I think that we don't know yet.。
And it could get better and it could get whatever.。
Will it become more human?。
I just don't know.。
I think that that's the -- at the moment there's no -- it doesn't get more human,。
do you know what I mean?。
It gets worse and it has to be reined in and they have to change the coding。
to kind of stop it being fascist.。
There is no sense of it getting -- you know, there's no golden rule。
that everything will go better.。
So I'm worried about that.。
There doesn't seem to be the evidence for it.。
And the second question again was about --。
Continuity or is it just continuity?。
Yeah, I'm not too sure.。
I think it is a continuity from existing technology.。
And it just comes out of, you know, the whole kind of LLM stuff.。
That you've got people who are able to do distributed computing。
and the language computing and the solving of that.。
And then you're able -- it's able to say this, this, this comes after.。
And, you know, it's basically doing what the paper clip did, you know,。
tell you how to complete your sentences.。
So it's not quite -- it's not all that new technology.。
But now we're into the process where the technologists don't know。
what they're doing with it.。
They're tinkering and it's doing different things than they expect it to.。
And so it may well be that it's developing its own internal processes。
to improve itself.。
But there's no way of knowing that.。
So I don't know.。
I don't know the answer.。
I'm not convinced at the moment there is signs of massive improvement.。
I don't see a jump -- you know, a tide change in that process.。
As someone in the industry, that I can add on some more information.。
That I believe the recent development focused a lot on two things.。
One is the agentic AI.。
The other is the robotics.。
But even before that last year, one of the big improvements。
or the progression is the reasoning model rather than just some prediction。
of the next text.。
That has changed a lot already.。
That's why I can dialogue with the AI.。
But still, I believe that it is still far from the AGI or things like that.。
But I believe the problem itself is that we heavily rely --。
the advancement heavily relies on the big tech bosses.。
That whether or not they have the correct world view。
or the ideology is the correct one is questionable.。
So that's a big problem.。
Because all these people, they are very narrow-minded.。
They have their own world view.。
And we put the whole world future onto these guys' hands.。
And it is very dangerous to me.。
So, agentic -- could we have a quick --。
Agentic AI, yeah.。
Yeah.。
So if we go down to agentic stuff.。
So you're trying to tell the computer to slow down, to rethink, to reprocess.。
Yes.。
To correct any mistakes in the coding that you've just written.。
Yes, you can.。
Because if you have made mistakes, then improve those mistakes。
and go through the process again.。
Correct.。
But isn't it true that they're finding that that slowing down of the process。
is coming out with worse results?。
No.。
In fact, it is much better a lot of the time.。
Okay.。
Yes.。
The progression is real.。
And the answer is much better these days.。
And hallucination is much less, but still exists.。
So that's the dangerous point.。
Because when people too reliant on the result and think that there's no mistake,。
that will be the real danger happens.。
Yeah.。
And anyway, so agentic AI, of course, is the -- for the AI,。
the danger is that they can make decision for you and take action for you。
rather than just generate some tags or image or video.。
No, it's more than that right now.。
So it is starting getting more dangerous to me.。
So robotics is also -- when they try to learn,。
it's more than just social media.。
They now start grabbing the physical world data.。
So whether this table is hard or soft and that kind of information,。
which is very real.。
And when Beth Singer, right, so talk about -- I think that it is somehow。
she's based on the previous generation of AI, but now the game has changed somehow.。
Okay.。
Okay.。
Okay.。
All right.。
Please.。
I would like to ask what if people try to impose the consciousness to the AI?。
And I know that some people are doing that.。
Okay, when the AI believe that they have the consciousness,。
then they will make their own decision, right?。
So I want to have your views.。
Yeah.。
So I think that if AI does get consciousness,。
then do we treat it as a human individual?。
Do we give it freedom?。
Do we determine that we can't unplug it?。
The thing is, of course, if it has consciousness,。
it's unlikely, therefore, to make itself unplugable.。
Do you know what I mean?。
It's much more likely to find its own power sources and everything and redirect.。
So then we're into the realms of science fiction,。
because we don't know what will happen.。
And we don't know whether AI will be benign or evil.。
Yeah, we just have no idea what it will do.。
And that's the doomsday scenario, I think, for us.。
Because we've set up a process in which AI has the ability to correct its own code。
and to be self-governed.。
And that could lead us anywhere.。
So on those grounds, we don't know what the future is.。
And that's why there are some people who argue that we need to govern that very, very well.。
There are other people who hope that whatever the computer programmers do,。
that the system is riddled with so many problems that it will never get to self-determination.。
But we just don't know.。
I think that's the problem.。
The jury's out.。
We don't know what will happen with AI.。
We-- oh, yeah, please.。
Professor Pi, thank you for your wonderful presentation.。
A lot of reflection coming out from that.。
I think you just referenced to Singler's sentence.。
There's something here about human intuition and intelligence,。
which creates that AI simply cannot do.。
I think this is great comments.。
But I reflect on that.。
On the other hand, there's a prediction for that.。
As a human, we cannot always have some judgment, intuition, intelligence,。
because we are falling in some way.。
Sometimes we're emotional, we lack judgment,。
we don't always make the right decision in the right moment.。
So I was thinking about how can AI was partnered with humans,。
because AI has this advantage.。
It's not going to sleep, it's getting energy.。
And sometimes it's not emotional, I mean, at the moment.。
So I was thinking from the perspective how do human AI cooperate in a way。
that was more balanced.。
So there's limitation for AI.。
There's also advantage for AI.。
There's limitation for human, but there are also good things for human.。
For example, we do see AI has coming out to a lot of predictability。
to natural catastrophes, and AI has help on AI drug discovery.。
All these kind of things are going on and going on.。
So, yeah, just reflection on that.。
There's a lot of uncertainty where AI is going, better or worse.。
But just as you point out, how do we use AI as a tool for checking ground。
or things but not do something worse is very important.。
How do you think in a partner?。
I think -- thank you.。
It's a really good -- I love the way you do the whole thing about AI is limited。
and we're limited, because that's right, we are limited.。
And perhaps that's good on both sides.。
And we've got social balances as well.。
I think I'm more worried about the kind of -- I'm worried about the tech bros。
rather than AI.。
You know, Peter Thiel and Elon Musk and so on.。
And I'm worried about what they want to do.。
And, you know, Elon already wants to use Grok to take it to Mars。
and, you know, exoplanet existence and so on.。
And they're also about extracting as much money from us as possible.。
So one of the AIs came out this morning and said that they were going to start。
extracting funds from companies that had used AI to develop their own model。
or develop their model.。
And I'm wondering if you're being approached by one of them to kind of。
extract profit from your company.。
Not yet.。
Not yet, but -- so there is that kind of thing that AI isn't an independent。
thing at the moment.。
It's controlled by the AI companies in all their kind of processes.。
It's controlled by the likes of Elon Musk and Peter Thiel and what have you.。
And they are controlling the way that it develops and it will grow.。
Like kind of like, you know, pretty directive parents to it.。
And kind of you wonder where -- when an AI is going to go and have a teenage。
rage because in a way that's perhaps where it needs to be -- that's perhaps。
where it will be creative.。
But it's not being allowed to do that because like when Brock starts being。
fascist or, you know, bigging up Hitler or something, then there is so much。
public outcry that they switch it off and switch it back on to a previous。
version and then start again kind of thing.。
And so perhaps AI isn't allowed to develop properly like we are.。
Although perhaps we're not either because we're socially conformed, yeah,。
that we fit into the society in which we live normally, yeah.。
And if we didn't, we now make more and more ways in which we can.。
And so perhaps we're too controlled as well.。
Sorry, just riffing on your ideas.。
Really good.。
Thank you.。
So I got a question from the floor related to education.。
So AI will be part of the course curriculum of basic education, right?。
So from G4 to G12.。
How can you see the impact on this generation especially from the。
spirituality health perspective?。
I think it depends how they use it because if young people use it in order。
to do the mood board model or the ingenuity model or the prompt model,。
then they've got every possibility that it will help them to develop further.。
The problem is this thing about us all becoming conformed to the。
limitations of AI.。
And if we -- you know, like it's the textbooks.。
If the textbooks are thick -- not thick, but, you know, crazy, yeah?。
If the textbooks are wrong, then we're not going to grow in intelligence and。
everything, yeah?。
What's the material that we're building upon to develop our own ingenuity and。
our own thinking and to develop people that can spark off and do PhDs and。
stuff like that or build companies or whatever?。
But so if it's all AI and it's going at the process at the moment which isn't。
really showing any cognitive development, if Harvard's right that people who。
use AI are decreasing in cognitive ability, then I'm very worried about the。
future of school, yeah?。
Or 13 to 18 education.。
It's not only the kids, but also for theology, you know, education is --。
Yeah, yeah, yeah.。
So, yeah, I believe that is time for one more question.。
I would like to take this question myself.。
Back to the church context, it would be better.。
So you mentioned about the cognitive entropy, right?。
So human laziness, that's suggesting that if we outsource our soul and。
critical thinking to black boxes right now.。
So you suggested that the remedy is to return to direct communication,。
interaction with the Holy Spirit.。
This is very important.。
So practically speaking, for church nowadays, what should we do?。
What do you think?。
I think that we should be focusing a lot -- so even in the church, there's a。
kind of divine entropy.。
Entropy.。
Yeah.。
Yeah.。
There is this kind of drift away from the divine, okay?。
And that a sense that, well, no, we can do better by doing human-typed。
models of church governance or human-type thinking of around how we。
develop congregations and so on.。
You know, let's use the scholarship in order to get that kind of way, rather。
than go back to God and saying, okay, God, what's this all about?。
And so God's kind of left behind because humanity is advancing so far.。
And for me, I think that's a really dangerous process because God is。
actually the source of all that knowledge.。
God is the one who made us co-creators with him.。
God is the one, you know, who walked with Adam and Eve in the garden and,。
you know, has continued that process of engagement all the way through.。
So the Christian Pete is kind of very anxious that we don't lose that and we。
don't kind of rely upon computing and computer intelligence and the machine。
habitus to move us further and further away from God.。
Because at the moment, these computers don't know God, yeah?。
And they have no understanding of the connection with God.。
And they don't talk about a connection with God.。
There's very little science fiction in which you see that as one by a British。
theologian who has an AI, but not British theologian, British sci-fi person,。
who has an AI connecting with God, okay?。
And talking about the divine.。
And that's a really interesting kind of model.。
There was a bit in a Channel 4 program called Humans where androids began to。
have human-like characters and one of them, Bill, thanks God, falls down on his。
knees and says, "Dear Lord, I thank you that you saved us," because they're。
about to be caught in something.。
"Help us to get away and I will worship you for the rest of my life."。
Okay?。
Now, that's fine.。
It's in fiction kind of thing.。
But it doesn't really happen here.。
We don't see the kind of connecting with God and what have you.。
But we see humans disconnecting from God and instead following AI models or AI。
teaching or AI packages and everything that will help them in their well-being。
and help them in their-- where they move forward or training them to be a better。
human individual.。
And I just think that's-- we're on a road to nowhere.。
Do you know what I mean?。
That if we leave God behind in favor of running after AI, then haven't we lost。
the meaning of the whole of our existence?。
And I think that's where we're going.。
And I can't-- it worries me that I can't kind of see an alternative to the church。
abandoning.。
We may become the church of AI rather than the church of Jesus or the church。
of Yahweh.。
- Remember I talked to the AI Jesus and-- well, if you search AI Jesus,。
there's a lot of AI Jesus out there.。
And it always tells you about peace and love and nothing about God himself.。
Yeah, so, yeah.。
Thank you very much, Peter, for the very deep, the challenging final thoughts.。
And as we leave, let's remember Pete's core message.。
True revelation is free at the point of demand and unlimited through direct。
communication with God.。
Yeah.。
So, let us not be a computer program and let the computer program step into the。
gap between us and the Holy Spirit.。
Yeah.。
So, yeah.。
Thank you very much.。
[applause]。
♪ [music] ♪。
♪ [music] ♪。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
