[Music]。
Good evening, everyone. Thank you for coming to CGST and joining our lecture this evening.。
This lecture is co-organised by CGST and Institute of Sino-Christian Studies.。
The Institute of Sino-Christian Studies is committed to promote the contextualisation of Christianity。
as well as the dialogues between different cultures and religions.。
This lecture is indeed a rare and wonderful opportunity for us to dialogue with orthodox tradition.。
We are very delighted to have Dr. Augustin Sokolovsky in our midst this evening.。
Dr. Augustin Sokolovsky is Director of the Orthodox Community in Bien, Switzerland。
and guest professor of the Institute of Sino-Christian Studies.。
He is also an academic board member of the Institute for Ecumenical Studies at the University of Freiburg.。
The topic he is going to present this evening is "When East Meets West",。
Augustin of Hippo and the Western Fathers in Orthodox Theology and Piety.。
After Dr. Sokolovsky's presentation, we will have Mr. Andrew Wong to give us his response.。
Andrew is our Assistant Professor at CGST. He is a doctoral candidate at the University of Oxford.。
His academic interest and expertise is on the thought and spirituality of Augustin of Hippo,。
so we cannot have a better respondent this evening.。
So please let us welcome our speaker, Dr. Sokolovsky.。
[Applause]。
Hello everyone, thank you for inviting me.。
I am very happy to speak here before you about St. Augustine and Orthodox Theology and Piety.。
Before we begin to consider the reception of Augustine in Orthodox Theology and Piety,。
it is important to outline what actually Orthodoxy is.。
It is very important because it helps to better understand specifics that simply need to be taken into account。
before starting to consider one or another theological issue.。
In their theological discourse, representatives of the Orthodox tradition talk about Orthodoxy.。
Typically, they mean two things at the same time, but normally this is not indicated.。
Firstly, by Orthodoxy we mean the entire ancient theological, moral, and ascetic tradition created in the Christian East,。
that is, in Palestine, Syria, Egypt, Asia Minor, and Constantinople.。
Everything that comes from this original matrix is considered Orthodox by default.。
This is a very important hermeneutical attitude.。
As a rule, Orthodox theologians necessarily adhere to it, but at the same time they are not aware of it.。
Let us note that in this context, the Western fathers of the Church, and mainly Augustine,。
seem to immediately fall out of sight of Orthodox authors.。
In other words, Orthodoxy in this sense means ancient Eastern Christianity.。
Secondly, by Orthodoxy we mean the Church and tradition which at a certain point in history came into conflict with the Roman Church,。
and the Churches that at that time were subject to its authority.。
After the break in communion between Rome and Orthodoxy, so it is commonly said,。
Orthodoxy began a separate existence.。
For a very long time it was generally accepted that the date of the separation of the Churches of the East and West was 1054.。
Indeed, then the leadership of the Churches of Rome and Constantinople excommunicated each other from Church communion and anathematized each other.。
Since then, these decisions have not been reversed.。
However, in modern times, through the works of Professor Christoph Zutner from Vienna,。
and Klaus Wirwoll from Regensburg and others, this date has been called into question.。
In my opinion, the year 1453 should be considered the date of the division of the Churches.。
Then Constantinople was taken by the Ottomans, and the Eastern Roman Empire ceased to exist.。
This empire outlived the Roman Empire by a thousand years.。
At the same time, of the Ottoman triumph, Constantinople was a small city-state with a population of only a few tens of thousands of people.。
However, the symbolic significance of this event was enormous.。
Moreover, the Ottoman sultans considered themselves not destroyers, but successors to the emperors of Constantinople.。
Therefore, they immediately began territorial expansion.。
In my opinion, I propose the date of separation of Churches of East and West is 1453, the fall of Constantinople.。
It is interesting that shortly before the fall of Constantinople in 1439,。
the unity of the Churches of Rome and Constantinople was restored at the Council of Florence.。
Despite the fact that this decision did not have time to undergo the necessary reception,。
formally by 1453 this unity existed.。
Ottoman power took control of Constantinople, the Ottomans refounded the empire,。
from now on they themselves became its center.。
At the same time, they reformated the Orthodox Church.。
In this context, it will be important to define what orthodoxy is.。
The complexity of such a definition lies in the fact that within one term,。
various historical, theological, philosophical, and even political factors are combined.。
Therefore, we will try to simply list such definitions.。
So, first, orthodoxy is Christianity, which in the first centuries of the history of the Church。
was formed in the territories of Palestine, Syria, Egypt, Asia Minor,。
and subsequently spread to other countries.。
Second, it's the Church that existed on the territory of the Eastern Roman Empire。
with its capital in Constantinople, as well as those churches on the territory of Syria, Palestine, Egypt, Asia Minor, Russia,。
later in Slavic countries, that until a certain point in history formed a single whole with it,。
and then they continued to be in liturgical and Eucharistic communion.。
These two definitions are based on origin, geography, history, and ecclesiastical organization.。
If we analyze the role of St. Augustine in the context of such definitions of orthodoxy, it will be minimal.。
The reason for this is the fact that Augustine lived in a different historical, geographical, and ecclesiastical context.。
His Christianity was African, Roman, Western.。
As he himself said about himself, "I am an African," "Africanus sum."。
Further, orthodoxy is right, correct, orthodox faith. It's about etymology.。
And also, the Greek word "doxa," which is the basis of the term "orthodox," also means glory, glorification, doxology.。
For instance, "glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit" is the same term.。
Therefore, the word "orthodoxy" can mean a way of properly glorifying God.。
This definition of orthodoxy can be called not only theological, but also aesthetic.。
It largely became popular during the postmodern era.。
We also find it by Dostoevsky that the beauty will save our world.。
And finally, this is maybe my personal definitions of what orthodoxy is.。
It is the official confession of faith adopted in the Roman Empire at the level of religious legislation during the Christian period of its history.。
By default, this definition applies to the Ottoman Empire as the legal successor of the Eastern Roman Empire.。
To the Russian Empire, in some forms of orthodox statehood, we have here an icon of the exaltation of the Holy Cross,。
one of the twelve greatest feasts of the Orthodox liturgical year.。
And it is a unique feast which can be called a political feast,。
because it is about the triumph of the Holy Cross in the universe.。
A very important example of what orthodoxy actually is.。
Also, the official confession of faith.。
In this context, consideration of the role of St. Augustine in orthodox theology seems most difficult.。
For instance, the decisions of the Fourth Ecumenical Council 451 in Chalcedon on Christology are based on the theology of Augustine.。
The Council itself does not refer to Augustine, but follows the Christology of the Roman Church of the era of Pope Leo the Great.。
In the doctrine of Christ, he was a follower of Augustine.。
In turn, the decisions of the Seventh Council of Nicea in 787 on iconography rather contradict the logic of Augustine's thinking,。
although he did not write about iconography.。
But rules were part of the official confession of the empire in their respective eras.。
Now, Augustine, is he sent or blessed?。
In orthodox literature, in European languages as well as in Russian,。
it is customary to call Augustine of Hippo blessed.。
Therefore, not only in secular literature, in theology, in philosophy, but also in the liturgical calendar,。
Augustine is called not Saint Augustine, but Blessed Augustine.。
Many theologians and philosophers as well as outside observers presume that this appellation is not accidental.。
They claim that this is a sign that allegedly indicates the following factors.。
First, insufficient holiness.。
Let us remember that in the Roman Catholic Church, there is a difference between saints and blessed.。
A saint is the right person canonized by the Church who is revered by the entire Church.。
It's an obligation for the universal Church to celebrate the memory of a saint.。
He and this person is commemorated as a saint.。
His or her name is placed in the liturgical calendar.。
This veneration and invocation extend to all Church dioceses and regions.。
A blessed is a righteous person whose canonization took place only at the local level.。
He or she is venerated in individual dioceses.。
It is possible that it will be subsequently spread in the whole universal Church,。
but it is also possible that this will not happen.。
The holiness of the blessed is, as it were, incomplete holiness or holiness in the process of waiting.。
The Orthodox Church also distinguishes between local and universal saints, but does not know such terminology.。
There is no formal difference in terminology between saints and blessed.。
However, by analogy taken from the Catholic tradition, many Orthodox believe that Augustine is not a saint who is venerated in Orthodoxy.。
Second, in addition, righteous people who are revered in popular piety,。
but are not formally canonized by the Church, are often called blessed.。
This is modern terminology.。
However, by the logic of anachronism and appropriation, it is often applied to Augustine.。
One more question.。
Blessed, in the proper sense in Orthodoxy, are the saints who have been canonized by the Church。
and are revered at the universal level as fools for Christ's sake.。
In Orthodox ideology, it is generally accepted that holy fools voluntarily assumed the appearance of madness and dementia.。
They have abandoned the full use of their rationality in their mental facilities, faculties,。
in order to acquire humility and avoid praise and pride.。
Although neither Augustine nor, for instance, Saint Jerome is also called blessed in the Orthodox tradition,。
they were ever perceived as holy fools.。
Calling them blessed helps to take their theologian legacy with some skepticism.。
Automatically, if you say Saint Augustine is only blessed people,。
start thinking about those fools in Christ who were a little bit strange people。
and didn't do and didn't practice theology.。
It is very difficult to enter discussion because as soon as they hear this notion of being blessed,。
they stop reflection on the theological meanings and teachings of Augustine.。
This is some kind of semantic anachronism that also works.。
It is important to note that the very name blessed in relation to Augustine in Orthodoxy is a trace of deep archaism.。
The fact is that the name of Augustine has appeared in various legends about saints over the centuries.。
It is found in ancient editions of the Psalter.。
However, such mention of him has always been abstract.。
In the strict sense of the word, neither Augustine nor, for instance, Jerome were known in the Orthodox world.。
The name of both was absent from the Orthodox liturgical calendar.。
Theologian and mystic reformer of piety and Eucharistic life of Greek Orthodoxy,。
Nicodemus the Agile-Wright, supplemented the liturgical calendar and added the names of Augustine and Jerome to it,。
but it was in the beginning of the 19th century.。
It doesn't mean anything because the Orthodox liturgical calendar at that time was simply incomplete.。
But some people think that this is the main proof that Augustine is somebody who is not considered a saint in the Orthodox world.。
Moreover, the very date of memory of Saint Augustine was chosen arbitrarily.。
June 15 does not have any connection with the biography of the saints.。
Probably there was an abbot on the Mount Athos in Greece who celebrated his birthday or something else like this.。
And that's why they put the memory of Saint Augustine on the same day.。
The archaic Tito blast is a consequence of such acceptance into the calendar without any official reception or theological reflection.。
It is interesting that in modern Greek Orthodoxy, Augustine is sometimes called Eros, sacred.。
That is how saints are called in the Greek tradition, saints whose memory is especially important for the Church.。
For instance, John Chrysostom is called sacred, and his veneration in Eastern Orthodoxy is a long-standing and extremely important tradition.。
Here we have three authors I prepared, analyzing the role of Saint Augustine.。
Here I would like to put the picture of Nicodemus Agiorite, who put the name of Augustine into the liturgical calendar.。
He was a very interesting theologian. He was also a missionary ascetic.。
He was one of the pioneers of frequent communion, because before him in Greek Orthodoxy,。
they got communion maybe once a year, once in some months, during Easter maybe, but he was a pioneer of continuous communion.。
And that's very interesting that he put the name.。
And he was also one of the publishers and authors of the Philokalia edition in Greek language.。
So it's very interesting that he got in touch with the memory of Saint Augustine.。
And now, what I would like to mention.。
Throughout its history, the Orthodox tradition has existed in specific contexts.。
The main factors that radically changed the mode of existence of Orthodoxy were the revolution in Russia in 1917,。
the Aegean Minor disaster, that's in the year 20 of the 20th century,。
Pan-Arabism, and the beginning of the collapse of Levantine Christianity.。
In the 20th century, Orthodox Christianity underwent enormous changes.。
I would identify these three factors.。
As a result of the Bolshevik revolution in Russia, not only the monarchy fell,。
but also the period of Orthodox statehood ended.。
The Orthodox political system, which theologians call the Constantinian period,。
we saw the icon with some emperors having the Holy Cross,。
it was the best image of what we call the Constantinian period in the church history,。
has become a thing of the past.。
As a result of the subsequent civil war, millions of Orthodox Christians found themselves abroad。
and began a new life in the countries of the Western world.。
The second factor was the so-called Aegean Minor catastrophe,。
when, as a result of the Greek-Turkish war, there was an exchange of populations between Turkey and Greece.。
The collapse of the Ottoman Empire resulted in the displacement of millions of Orthodox Greeks towards Greece.。
Since the latter could not accept such a number of immigrants, many of them moved to North America.。
And it is how a huge Orthodox diaspora arose in the Western world.。
Finally, the collapse of the colonial system, the emergence of the ideology of Pan-Arabism。
and Arab nationalism also contributed to the fact that numerous Orthodox Christians,。
who had previously lived for centuries in the Middle East, particularly in Egypt,。
were forced to leave their places of former residence.。
This is how a new era was formed, when the Orthodox world began to come into close contact with the Western world.。
As often happens in globalization processes, the question of self-identification has arisen.。
It was a gradual process. As a symbolic starting point,。
I would like to indicate the expulsion of Russian intellectuals from Russia by Lenin.。
And that was for the first time in history that Orthodox intellectuals found themselves。
in a completely Roman Catholic or Protestant environment.。
An intense process of reflection began.。
The question of how, in fact, Orthodoxy differs from Western Christianity has acquired a particularly extreme actuality.。
To summarize, we can briefly outline what happened at that time.。
Orthodox began to be aware of their belonging to the Church.。
According to the text of the Creed, it was one holy Catholic and apostolic Church.。
However, Western Christians could say the same about themselves.。
It was necessary to find such a special characteristic to identify one's own tradition.。
And this one was Church of the Fathers.。
What means Church of the Fathers?。
If we go to the Ecumenical Councils, we can find a canon from the Fifth Ecumenical Council, 553,。
where it is said, "We follow in everything the Holy Fathers and teachers of the Holy Church of God,。
that is, Athanasius, Hilary, Basil, Gregory the Theologian, Gregory of Nyssa, Ambrose, Theophilus,。
John Chrysostom, Cyril, Augustine, Proclus, Leo.。
And we accept everything that is written, and they explain about the right faith and the condemnation of heretics."。
Here we see that Augustine and Leo represent Western Christianity.。
The other fathers mostly the Eastern one.。
It is very important that the name Augustine is mentioned in this ancient canon,。
and in some way it becomes an obligation to have respect towards Saint Augustine.。
But why he is mentioned in this context is unclear,。
because Saint Augustine was not known in the Orthodox Christianity.。
And that's why it is important to see how some Orthodox theologians treat Augustine,。
what they say about him.。
First, I took one of the Serbian and Russian theologians, Ambrose Pogodin.。
It's very important that he got this double Orthodox origin from Serbia and France,。
and also served in different countries.。
In his article on Saint Augustine, called "Orthodox Church and Blessed Augustine,"。
Ambrose Pogodin outlines his perception of Augustine.。
In doing so, he responds to the harsh criticism of the theology of Augustine,。
which was carried out by certain representatives of the Greek Orthodox conservative circles of the 20th century.。
It is characteristic that already in the title of his article, Ambrose calls Augustine "blessed."。
This means that he is not ready to equate Augustine with other ancient fathers of the Church,。
who are usually, as I said, called "saints."。
According to Ambrose, the Greek theologian Michael Atskou calls Augustine。
"the father of all heretics," the cause of Roman Catholic and Protestant errors.。
He also believes that Augustine is not one of the Orthodox saints,。
and Ambrose Pogodin tries to respond to him.。
The first issue that Pogodin considers is Augustine's teaching on grace and predestination.。
In doing so, he immediately refers his reader to the work of Seraphim Rose,。
another Orthodox theologian of the past century.。
At the same time, he notes that he intends to correct, to complement Rose,。
but also to distance himself from him.。
Ambrose interprets Augustine's teaching on grace as follows.。
"After the fall, man needs grace. However, he can reject grace.。
Grace strengthens the saints in their heroism," states Pogodin.。
In essence, predestination and foreknowledge of God in Augustine's understanding coincide.。
Very strange conclusion, because we know that this distinction between predestination and prescience。
is one of the most important things in the grace theology of Saint Augustine.。
It was also very typical after the fall, the whole development of dogma in the whole Western traditions,。
and we know about it, but he apparently didn't want to know about it.。
It's a very special methodological, it's an emanatical attitude.。
At the same time, Pogodin believes that the Roman Catholic Church rejects Augustine's teaching on grace.。
Why? Since Catholic ethics is built on a person's acquisition of merit before God,。
and because John Calvin subsequently taught about predestination.。
So probably Ambrose Pogodin was a very good specialist in church fathers,。
but he didn't study Western tradition.。
That's why he came to such conclusions that Catholics did reject Saint Augustine,。
and that John Calvin is right, he taught about predestination.。
Ambrose refers to his colleague, Seraphim Rose, who argued that Augustine's teaching was orthodox,。
but it was characterized by exaggerated language, which gave rise to incorrect interpretations.。
Pogodin makes a short excursion into the research of Russian theologians of the 19th century on Augustine,。
and concludes that the Greek fathers of the church were dogmatics,。
while Blessed Augustine is an excellent moralist.。
Very interesting remark, because I would say Pelagius was a moralist, but not said Augustine.。
Nevertheless, for Ambrose Pogodin, Augustine was a moralist.。
That's very important, because such clichés are still alive.。
If you speak with an orthodox Christian who knows about Saint Augustine,。
he will probably respond the same thing.。
The second question of Augustine's theology which Pogodin discusses。
is the famous question of the procession of the Holy Spirit.。
Here, his answer is, "Augustine's doctrine of the Trinity is not formulated with precision.。
It is incomplete."。
Sometimes I read Augustine's work on the Trinitate, on Trinity,。
and I doubt whether it is incomplete.。
We see this hermeneutical attitude, which is a very special one.。
Unlike the doctrine of grace and predestination,。
where Ambrose simply puts his own point of view into Augustine's mouth,。
it is not possible for him to do the same on the issue of the procession of the Holy Spirit.。
Subsequent tradition, and most importantly, the Carolingian theologians themselves,。
refer to Augustine in this matter.。
It is too obvious.。
That's why Pogodin quotes photos of Constantinople, Archbishop of Constantinople in the 9th century,。
who says that works of Augustine were probably falsified.。
He didn't teach about filioque or about the double procession of the Holy Spirit。
from the father and from the son, but his works were falsified.。
It's an interesting opinion, which matched probably for that time,。
but Pogodin, he is a theologian from the 20th century, and he still repeats this opinion.。
Another theologian about whom I would like to speak is a Greek theologian from Boston,。
George Papadimitriou.。
What is interesting about him, already the title of his article,。
"St. Augustine in the Greek Orthodox Tradition."。
He rightly points out that within the framework of a single Orthodox Christianity,。
various independent traditions have already formed,。
therefore the theology of each must be studied separately.。
If we speak in detail, we have to speak about St. Augustine in Greek Orthodox Tradition,。
Serbian, in Russian, maybe there is also a small Polish Orthodox Church with its own theologians,。
but we have no time.。
Anyway, we see that in his article he already points to it,。
that St. Augustine in the Greek Orthodox Tradition.。
Papadimitriou consistently examines the place of Augustine in the works of those authors。
who, in his opinion, can obviously be considered as a kind of topoi of Greek Orthodox history.。
This is Photios of Constantinople, we spoke about him,。
and Gregory Palamas, teacher of grace in the Orthodox Tradition,。
and also that this new personality in this Augustinian study in the Orthodox world,。
the patriarch of Constantinople, the first Ottoman patriarch, Gennadius Holarius.。
After this, he moves on to the modern period.。
The conclusion of this review is also quite characteristic,。
and the periodization is very typical.。
For instance,。
he also speaks about Marcus of Ephesus and the Union of Florence.。
What is important, speaking about the Council of Florence,。
Papadimitriou admits that Augustine was a pro-Latin theologian.。
And in this moment, some kind of new confession is emerging,。
because here Augustine's authority is very limited by Papadimitriou,。
and he says if his theology, or if Augustine in his theology,。
differs in some way from others,。
Augustine had to be subordinated to the general teaching of the Orthodox Church.。
We see this balance between West and East,。
which is very important to understand how Orthodox theology speaks about Saint Augustine.。
Apparently, we have here, under the pen of Papadimitriou,。
some kind of instrumentalization of Augustine,。
characteristic of all subsequent Orthodoxy.。
There is no reception of his theology,。
but a conditional reference to it is necessary,。
since it proves the utterance of the Orthodox to patristic authorities.。
Speaking about the role of Augustine in the modern Greek Orthodox tradition,。
Papadimitriou also mentions that it was Nicodemus the Agiorite。
who included the name of Augustine in the liturgical calendar of saints.。
The name of Nicodemus, as I said, is associated with the revival of religious life,。
and Papadimitriou also says that Nicodemus wrote about Augustine with all prize-worthy epithets.。
Papadimitriou lists several authors who have called for the integration of Augustine。
into the life and theology of the Orthodox Church today.。
He also writes that some modern Greek theologians subjected Augustine to harsh criticism.。
Thus, one involuntarily gets the impression that Orthodox piety,。
Nicodemus, and the monastic tradition obliges to respect the authority of Augustine,。
while Orthodox theology, as theology, Romanides and other theologians,。
characteristic of the modern Greek Christian traditions,。
judges Augustine on the basis of their own criteria, methodology, and hermeneutics.。
The question arises about the criteria.。
Should Augustine's theology be taken as a matrix for conclusions。
about the theology of later times, or vice versa?。
One more theologian, it's very famous in the English-speaking Orthodox world,。
Seraphim Ross.。
He was very knowledgeable about modern Western philosophy and culture.。
His perception of Augustine is extremely interesting.。
He dedicated a separate small monograph to Augustine.。
The reception of Seraphim is important because it is not just theological treatise,。
but a kind of exercise in piety.。
Ross consistently strives to remind his modern Orthodox reader。
of the good name of Augustine.。
The audience he was addressing was Western.。
During the Iron Curtain period, his work simply could not be accessible。
to readers in most Orthodox countries.。
Unlike Omros Pogodin, who was a scholar in patristics and translator。
of the Church Fathers, Seraphim Ross obviously mastered。
contemporary philosophical issues.。
He studied modern religiosity, sects, wrote on philosophical issues,。
and was keenly interested in everything happening in the world.。
This was to give his work on Augustine and Orthodoxy special interest.。
[PAUSE]。
Very interesting fact is that he--。
[PAUSE]。
What is the periodization of these historical moments。
in which Ross studies Augustine?。
There are the times of forties of Constantinople.。
We have the Union of Florence, Mark of Ephesus,。
and also we have some modern issues.。
It is very interesting that all three authors speak about Nicodemus。
from the Holy Mountain.。
[PAUSE]。
They all speak about Nicodemus and they want to put--。
to speak about necessity to venerate Augustine。
in their particular private piety.。
[PAUSE]。
Wait a moment.。
[PAUSE]。
I have too many papers here.。
[PAUSE]。
Yes.。
[PAUSE]。
I got it.。
[PAUSE]。
We know that later tradition after Augustine。
called teaching about grace and freedom, called "Synergia," "Semi-Pelagian."。
According to some scientists, this happened quite late.。
It was probably Martin Luther who first discovered。
that this doctrine contradicted Augustine's theology.。
Seraphim Rose doesn't know about it.。
He doesn't know probably that Luther called it "Semi-Pelagianism"。
and accused the modern Catholic Church of holding it,。
that is, in his opinion, of being in heresy.。
This brief information is given here only as an excursion.。
Rose most likely did not know about this issue.。
In his argument, Seraphim Rose contrasts John Cassian and Augustine.。
He considers the theology of Augustine to be orthodox,。
but his teaching one-sided and close to error.。
To justify Augustine, Rose argues that his theology。
was too conditioned by personal experience.。
And St. Augustine would have responded by the experience of grace,。
not personal experience.。
At the same time, Rose argues that Augustine was too Western。
and therefore wanted to subordinate the doctrine of God。
to the laws of human logic.。
In essence, it seems that the American orthodox theologian,。
Seraphim Rose, is trying to justify Augustine,。
but does not know how to do it.。
He is too different if he is compared with the Eastern Orthodox Church fathers.。
On the last pages of his work, he says that thanks to the works。
of John Maximovich, we have him here,。
a revival of the veneration of Augustine began in Orthodox piety.。
At one time, biblical scholarship in the 19th century。
started speaking of the contrast between the historical Jesus。
and the Christ of dogma.。
Modern orthodoxy, modern orthodox theology, in fact,。
reproduces this hymn, this example in relation to St. Augustine.。
It accepts and honors Augustine in piety。
and distances itself from Augustine in theology.。
Nevertheless, John Maximovich, John of Shanghai,。
because he was bishop for Russian people during 15 years in Shanghai,。
wrote a worship liturgy to St. Augustine.。
Here we have a small text dedicated to Augustine.。
"Let us praise the great Augustine,。
"the divine hierarch of Christ's church and wise guide,。
"renowned theologian of the city on high, city on high, city of God,。
"a lover of prayer and a pillar of repentance."。
We have this ascetical approach to St. Augustine,。
very special because characteristic for the Orthodox tradition.。
And one more thing, we know that around 720,。
Augustine's body was transferred to the Lombard capital of Paris in northern Italy.。
It was placed in the church where already the relics。
of the philosopher Severinus Boetius were located.。
And we started a tradition, new one, to celebrate once per year。
a common liturgy, Eucharistic prayer, Orthodox service,。
of all Orthodox clergy named after St. Augustine.。
Last time there were four, a metropolitan from Ukraine,。
a priest monk from Russia, an archimandrite from South Italy, and me.。
So we hope that we start with piety and we come to a recognition。
of the merits of St. Augustine also in Orthodox theology。
and to help Orthodox people to know him better.。
First of all, because he is one of the greatest theologians of all times。
and his teachings were not known for Orthodox tradition,。
and I think it's very important that we finally meet him。
in our post-modern era and can enrich our own understanding。
of Christian ethics and dogma. Thank you very much.。
[applause]。
[silence]。
Thank you, Dr. Sokolowski, for this very informative lecture.。
I've been enriched by knowledge of Orthodox history and liturgy,。
together with an account of how Augustine has been received。
in the Orthodox tradition.。
You began by discussing the different senses of the term "Orthodoxy."。
You then explained why Augustine is called "Blessed" rather than "Saint."。
You introduced the major historical events which led Orthodoxy。
to embrace the identity being the Church of the Fathers.。
You argued that having been named in the Act of the Fifth Ecumenical Council。
should guarantee Augustine's place in Orthodox theology.。
You also named the Orthodox thinkers who have been engaged in the study of Augustine,。
but regretted to find that these attempts have so far failed to do justice。
to the true worth of Augustine's thought.。
Having outlined these key points, there are a few areas into which。
I'd like to make further inquiry.。
The first is about the place of the Saints and the Fathers。
in the liturgy and theology of the Orthodox Church.。
To my understanding, liturgy and theology are absolutely inseparable in Orthodoxy,。
given that both genuine faith and Orthodox theology are embedded in the Byzantine Rite.。
Although the Rite is celebrated in the vernaculars of the different peoples,。
it goes back to the same authors who are Saints and Fathers of the Church.。
Here, I think, lies the significance of the Saints and Fathers in Orthodox life.。
I'd like to inquire further into the area of Sainthood in Orthodoxy.。
In your lecture, you suggested the reason for Augustine being called "Blessed" rather than "Saint"。
is due to a complex web of factors involving a paradoxical mix of archaism and anachronism.。
You mentioned that there's no formal difference between the terms "Blessed" and "Saint".。
Also, you brought to our attention that the title used for Augustine is somewhat different。
in the different Orthodox communities.。
For whereas, he is usually referred to as "Blessed" in Russian Orthodoxy,。
he is called "Sacred" in the Greek Church.。
My question is twofold.。
Is the idea of Sainthood in Orthodoxy something subject to local variations?。
If that is the case, how does this square with the practice in the liturgy of the Orthodox Church。
where lists of Saints are read out during the Divine Liturgy?。
I understand the liturgy is common and shared among the Orthodox communities。
in different geographical locations.。
Also, I'd like to understand whether the idea of Sainthood in Orthodoxy is a greater concept,。
as in whether a father may be more authoritative than another father.。
And if that is the case, does the degree of authority depend on the place of a particular father,。
how it is occupied in the liturgy?。
For example, like John Chrysostom, he has got a Divine Liturgy that is named after him.。
Would that for some reason mean that he is more authoritative than some other fathers。
who are mentioned otherwise?。
Coming from a Protestant background, in which denominationalism is a key phenomenon,。
I think Protestants can learn a lot from the Orthodox understanding of communion。
founded upon unity in liturgical practice.。
My second area of interest is about the turn to logistic heritage.。
You have mentioned a few names of Orthodox authors who have done study on Augustine.。
You told us about Ambrose Pagodin, Seraphim Rose, George Papadimitriou, and John Maksimovich.。
It seems that in the last century, there has been a period of renewal in the study of patristics in various quarters.。
In Roman Catholicism, there was the Fresou-Simon movement, or I guess it should be "resourcement" in English,。
that emphasised Church reform through a return to patristic sources.。
Similarly, in Protestantism, there are theologians like T.F. Torrance and Colin Gunton。
who were engaged in retrieving patristic resources in their doctrinal works.。
One of the Fresou-Simon theologians, Henri de Lubac, goes so far as to say that。
"Each time in our West, that Christian renewal has flourished under the sign of the Fathers."。
Being certain that these efforts in returning to patristic heritage have been as rewarding,。
if not more so in the Eastern Church as in the West,。
I am interested in learning about the fruits borne by embracing the identity of the Church of the Father.。
My question is, what does the Orthodox self-understanding being the Church of the Fathers mean。
in terms of practical life and piety on the one hand, and output in theological writings on the other?。
I've been interested in looking at this more broadly, going beyond Augustine,。
so that like how the Fathers have been appropriated in general in Orthodoxy during the last century.。
Finally, I'd like to return to Augustine, more specifically about the place of Augustine in an East-West dialogue.。
In the description of this lecture, you have raised the question,。
"Is it generally legitimate to divide the representative of patristic into East and West?"。
I'd like to hear a little bit more from you on this question.。
Responding to the common way of dividing patristic Trinitarian doctrines into Eastern and Western formulations,。
Lewis Ayres has demonstrated that such an approach cannot be maintained.。
And in your lecture, you have alluded to the relevance of Augustine's theology to Orthodox Christianity.。
The question I'd like to pursue is this.。
By singling out Augustine in this lecture, presumably because he is often regarded as the most influential among the Western Fathers,。
what would you anticipate to be the unique contribution that he could make to Orthodox Christianity by a more vigorous study into his thoughts?。
I think I've raised some questions to keep this dialogue going for a while.。
I look forward to being enlightened by your response.。
Before then, I'd like to once again express my gratitude to you, Dr. Sokolovsky,。
for coming up with this very meaningful topic on Augustine of Hippo and the Western Fathers in Orthodox theology and piety.。
Thank you so much, Dr. Sokolovsky, for giving us such an inspiring lecture and Andrew's response.。
In order to deepen our dialogue between East and West, I would like to invite our two speakers to come forward again。
so that we will first have a dialogue session between these two speakers before we open the floor for their Q&A session.。
So, please come forward.。
[Pause]。
So, after Andrew's response, maybe Dr. Sokolovsky, do you have some immediate response you would like to give or you would like to answer Andrew's questions?。
Yes, maybe it's very important that you mention that this revival of patristics in Orthodox Christianity was not alone.。
It was linked with the same revival of patristics in the Catholic Church and also in the Protestant churches and community.。
We Orthodox often forget about it, we don't know about it.。
Also, if we speak about liturgical renewal, that's the same story.。
And that was the immediate fruit or result of the meeting of different Christians from different denominations, which happened after these three crucial immigration processes in the Western and Eastern world.。
It's very important, thank you very much.。
What is maybe typical for the Orthodox tradition is that discovering the role of the fathers, Orthodox theologians start speaking or start making or asking who is the church father?。
What is the era of the fathers?。
And they came to the conclusion that the era of the fathers of the church never ends.。
And that's maybe very typical or the crucial point of the Orthodox understanding of fathers.。
It means that every time, every moment, every moment in human history, in every moment, Orthodox Church has to be able to produce new fathers of the church.。
From an hermeneutical point of view, it's problematic because we know more or less the patristic era stops with the emergence or with the arrival of Islam.。
Why? I didn't find any sufficient explanation personally, I think, because the whole world view was broken.。
The fathers were sure that a complete Christianization of our world started and soon or later the whole world will be Christian.。
And then, in that human history follows a logical step towards this Christian, pan-Christian unity.。
And then suddenly a new religion emerges and starts conquering new faithful territories.。
And especially Eastern Christianity has to resign from all these plans.。
And I think that was the end of the patristic era.。
A very interesting question about saints, because for me personally it's very important.。
As the pandemic began, I had no opportunity as all of us to do academic work offline, so I started writing on saints.。
And it seemed to me that I was sure I knew a lot about saints and I discovered that I knew quite a few about saints.。
And one of those saints was Saint Augustine. I knew about him, but his personal approach to holiness in our world was very interesting。
because he also lived in a very critical moment of human history.。
I discovered a lot of very precious and rare saints, for instance, Martyrs of Alexandria,。
who died during the pandemics in the middle of the 3rd century.。
As Bishop Dionysius the Great of Alexandria, he helped sick people during the pandemic and all pagans escaped the city.。
And many Christians died because of this social work.。
And Dionysius of Alexandria canonized immediately all those martyrs, as he called them, of Alexandria.。
A very interesting example.。
You mentioned liturgy and sainthood. We used to do only two Eucharistic prayers in our tradition.。
One is called St. John Chrysostom, the second one, Basil the Great or Basil of Caesarea.。
They lived in the 4th and 5th century.。
Actually, some scholars think that both texts were written by John and Basil, but it's not sure.。
Some scholars think that both texts were named because they came from their episcopal cities.。
So, from Antioch of John Chrysostom and Caesarea from Caesarea Basil the Great.。
What does it mean for Orthodox tradition?。
This link or connection between theology, because Eucharistic prayer is always about theology.。
It's very theological. It's addressed to the Father, to the Son, to the Holy Spirit.。
It's a very theological work, but it is linked and deeply connected with concrete saints.。
So, we don't imagine to pray with words by some unknown theologian.。
We need some approach to a concrete human holiness.。
If you ask me about St. Augustine and his possible contribution to Orthodox theology,。
I think it's very important to speak about grace.。
For sure, we use the word grace in Orthodox tradition, but the meaning is completely different.。
For us, grace means ascetical work and results of this ascetical work in our personal life for perfection and holiness.。
Grace is deeply connected with liturgical life and personal life and prayer,。
but we don't know about the redemptive meaning of grace.。
What is crucial, if we read St. Paul, is his understanding of the whole history of salvation.。
Grace also means Jesus Christ given to us for the salvation of the whole world.。
It also may be political theology because after Constantine the Great,。
Eastern Christianity started being connected or linked with the Empire.。
Why? Because many authors, but the most important was, I think, Eusebius of Caesarea.。
He was quite sure that in this Christianization of biography of Constantine the Great,。
his baptism on the dead bed and so on, was given a great blessing not only to the church,。
but also to the history of the world.。
And this hermeneutical approach goes on. It was never questioned.。
And Augustine was outside of all those stories. Eusebius was very close to the Emperor.。
He knew him personally. Augustine was in his native Africa.。
He got 2,000 bishops at that time. And if we take a patriarch or a bishop of Caesarea as a basil,。
they were very highly positioned. And Augustine was between first and second thousand of bishops.。
And he didn't care about the Empire. For him, what was important was the salvation of his flock.。
And that's why in his De Civitae Dei, he said, "It's okay. It's a very happy event that the Empire became Christian,。
but one day maybe it will not be Christian anymore. We have to stay and to be Christian."。
And I think we need this more skeptical approach in our own understanding of, I would call it, political theology.。
And Augustine is, in this sense, among fathers. He is unique who could provide us such an answer. Thank you.。
Thank you. So, Andrew, do you have any follow-up questions on this area?。
Yes. Thank you for your response. It's very helpful to know that the fathers in Orthodoxy,。
you have the idea of, like usually we think about patristic, we think about endpoints,。
but you mentioned that the Church should, there should be fathers at all times.。
So, I would like to follow up on this. I think the fathers' place in Orthodoxy is quite significant to the self-understanding of the Orthodox Church.。
You mentioned that in the last century, there has been a few momentous historical events which impacted the Orthodox Church quite significantly.。
You mentioned that the world was supposed to become Christian, but then all of a sudden, it had to fight for its own existence.。
So, did these events in any way change the self-understanding of the Orthodox Christian, and also the way they think about the fathers?。
That's my, that's a point I would like to follow up on.。
I think that Orthodox understanding of the fathers became much more personalistic and ascetic.。
So, first fathers were also, first of all, were teachers of dogmatics and true theologians.。
After, they started being more personal saints in some kind.。
It was a process of methodologization of fathers.。
You mentioned also that St. Augustine is very different if you compare him to other fathers.。
Why? Because his biography is very known.。
Even some moments, we can restore it day by day.。
But not only him is very known, but also if we read Gregory of Nazianzus, he is very personal.。
Sometimes he is happy, he calls, "Oh, my Trinity, I'm happy defending my Orthodox faith in Constantinople."。
Sometimes he is very depressive and he quotes Greek ancient pagan authors and he forgets about his theological roots.。
I think Orthodox people, after this huge reform, I would say, after the arrival of Islam,。
they start rethinking the role of the fathers and they start also forgetting about their personal dimension.。
Fathers became figures on the firmament of the Orthodox faith,。
but not concrete personalities who needed also analysis and also chronology, biography, personal approach.。
I think this revival of the patristic theology was also due to the fact that even if the Orthodox world was very separated from the rest of the world,。
academic theology, especially in the Russian Empire, was very high level.。
I don't know if you know, but even theological teaching was given in Latin language.。
Imagine people praying Church Slavonics, speaking Russian dialects, you have la noblesse, nobility in Russian Empire, speaking French,。
and priests and theologians doing theology in Latin language.。
It means that theological educational parkour was the same as in the West, but contents were different.。
It was so difficult to understand that nobody cared about it.。
I think this discovery of the fathers in the 20th century was very important because we finally started studying ourselves。
and understand that we are different.。
It's not bad or good, but difference is a gift given by God.。
I think that was the most important meaning of the patristic revival in the 20th century.。
So, from your original script, I have read some message from your speech that the Orthodox tradition has skipped some historical moments,。
which is very important to the Western tradition, like the Renaissance, Reformation, Enlightenment, and all these important historical moments.。
So, do you think this is a theological pro or a theological con for the Orthodox tradition?。
For many who become Orthodox in our time, it's a huge pro because you have a church which didn't compromise itself with today's world.。
Also, in history, it's very easy to be Orthodox and if you hear inquisition, no idea, persecution of heretics, we didn't do it, and so on.。
But when people are already Orthodox, they start questioning about philosophical issues, how to deal with the Reformation,。
with all those immense themes and topics and challenges we live, we don't always have appropriate questions because we didn't have this experience.。
That's why I think a communicable dialogue is so important, because we can enrich each other and learn from each other.。
We cannot in a moment leave all those things we didn't leave, like Enlightenment, Renaissance, Reformation, modernity, maybe post-modernity,。
but let's leave it together in order not to repeat our errors before.。
Well, we are coming from evangelical tradition, so Protestant, basically.。
So for the Protestant tradition, the scripture is very important. We have scripture principles, sola scriptura.。
So compared with the Orthodox Church, it seems to me that the church fathers is very important to your tradition.。
So in your opinion, or in your observation, what is the place of scripture in the Orthodox tradition compared with the church fathers?。
It's a very important question. As I teach in theological academy, seminary, dogmatics,。
one of my first questions was, did somebody read the whole Bible? And almost nobody answered yes.。
Also, second question, do you read sometimes the fathers? And whom do they quote? Each other or their predecessors?。
No. Usually, all their spirituality, theology is in the Bible.。
They knew that by heart. The question of how did they interpret it is a different question.。
But anyway, all the fathers were deeply rooted in the scripture.。
And I think in our Orthodox tradition, it's a huge lack of this immediate approach to the Bible.。
We have to read and to re-read it. And still, maybe we lived already a liturgical revival, a patristical revival.。
Maybe let's now start with biblical revival. I think it's important.。
So do you expect an Orthodox version of Martin Luther coming up?。
Martin Luther was too Augustinian. First we have to study Augustine and then...。
Okay, Andrews, do you have other questions for Dr. Zukolowski?。
Yeah, I think I have one more question. I know your interest is in ecumenism.。
And so I would like to hear more about the work that you have been doing.。
Do you see ecumenism as primarily something that can be fulfilled academically or through dialogue?。
It's a topic that interested me and I think it's a very important subject too.。
The fact that we are having dialogue here, I think, is part of the effort towards Christian union.。
So I would like to hear you share about your expertise.。
I think we are in a very difficult situation because the ecumenical movement started in the beginning of the 20th century.。
It has become very disappointed and weak.。
And all those great hopes are not actual anymore.。
Why different answers? Maybe because we were in modernity, now in post-modernity.。
Maybe difference become too important.。
Maybe theological and philosophical dimensions also not so important.。
We have to be in aesthetics and also huge political issue about what we are.。
Is it not better to be separated than to be united?。
There is no quest for unity anymore.。
And I think it also has its repercussions for the ecumenical movement.。
The best example of ecumenism in my personal experience was when I was in a conference in Singapore.。
I didn't know that it was a huge conference.。
I was sent by Fribourg and I was sure I will meet some Catholics, Orthodox, Protestants.。
But I was almost alone in a huge Protestant congregation.。
And people I discussed with were Russian Baptists.。
They are very conservative, very true Baptists.。
But I discovered that they didn't know at that time enough about their classical Baptist theology.。
And I asked, "What do you mean about Trinity, about redemption, grace, baptism?"。
And answers in my understanding were not enough good.。
So I said, "Guys, you are Baptists. You were born from heaven in your tradition.。
Probably you will be always Baptists until you are in heaven where there is no confession in the sense of denomination.。
Let me please teach you a little bit about the Johan doctrine."。
And I also want other Christians to teach me about the Orthodox faith, tradition, understanding.。
And what actually I noticed also studying in a different context in Fribourg,。
that I learned a lot about my own tradition from non-Orthodox people, Catholics, Protestants.。
The best way to pray I learned from some Protestant Christians.。
I mean the best way in the sense of being able to pronounce the word of prayer immediately.。
You know, immediately, this immediate way of addressing God.。
And I think maybe it's one of the possibilities or hopes for a future ecumenical dialogue,。
to share experiences of each other and to understand that we are not perfect.。
Let's think about our roots and also go towards the future because Christians in the world are now in minority.。
Even in statistics maybe not, but Christian faith was never about statistics.。
And let's go very small flock towards a true ecumenical dialogue where we are all different but all together.。
Okay, so I think we are now opening the floor to the Q&A session.。
So you are most welcome to raise your question to two of our speakers.。
So if you have any questions, please come forward and use the mic in the middle of our room.。
And for the sake of time, each one, please raise one question and finish it within a minute.。
So we can now start.。
Hello, my name is Keen. I teach church history here.。
So just broadening your scope a little bit.。
First, I'd like to thank you. You are so humble in presenting the Orthodox tradition.。
I find that sometimes it's not true in some other Orthodox writers.。
So very good.。
Secondly, just that's my question.。
Actually, in terms of purely population statistics, the Orthodox tradition is in a pretty bad situation.。
Russians, Eastern Europeans, they are not reproducing children.。
So my question is that in the Orthodox community, do they have a sense like how the church can survive,。
the Orthodox church can survive both the decline of the church and the attack of modernity and so forth and so on.。
Do they have a sense of crisis facing the church or do they have any discussion how to face the problem of the Orthodox community at large today?。
First of all, Orthodoxy is not anymore Orthodoxy in a definite country or somewhere on earth.。
But you have everywhere Orthodox communities in the diaspora.。
And actually, we speak about 14 Orthodox churches which are independent.。
And if you compare it, it's more or less the model of the Anglican communion.。
It's not, it wasn't a project, but it's going this direction, being a kind of confederation of churches.。
And you have to speak about each tradition differently because in different countries you have different situations.。
But I think that we lived the time of persecution during the Soviet past and we were so happy that it ended。
that we still not questioned ourselves what will come in the future.。
And Orthodoxy has a very strong identity with culture, ethnicity, history, particular history of its own land, country.。
If you want to compare, it's a little bit like Polish Catholicism.。
You know, everybody was happy with a lot of people in churches during the Soviet time.。
Then John Paul II was the greatest Polish of all times.。
Now everything changed, but Polish Catholics are still inside this reality.。
I think it's more or less that answer.。
But you have also Orthodoxy in the United States, in South America, you have in South Africa,。
strong Greek community, they are more aware of all these challenges we face or we will face.。
I think the answer is yes and not.。
But not in such a, you know, if you compare with the West, with Catholics or Protestants,。
we are still not aware yet of all those new challenges we will face in the coming future.。
My name is Cherry. I'm also a church historian.。
And thank you so much for Father Sokolowsky's presentation and Andrew's response,。
which are both very helpful for us who all claim ourselves as the descendants of the Latin tradition,。
while we're having mostly Asian faces, ethically.。
But this is a great opportunity for all of us to learn about how the Orthodox community has been receiving Augustine's teaching.。
I actually had three questions.。
I'm trying to combine two of them.。
So did Father Sokolowsky, do you notice any similar negation occurred in some other church fathers。
considered as Latin fathers, such as Amboise, Jerome, and perhaps a little bit later, Gregory the Great,。
which is related to this question, is that,。
do you believe that the primary obstacles in introducing Augustine's teaching in the Orthodox community。
is the lack of sainthood or do controversial theological differences play a more significant role?。
So what I mean is that because Amboise, Jerome, and perhaps Gregory the Great are the fathers。
who did not engage in the controversy of filioque, but Augustine was a very significant one.。
Did this actually hinder the popularity of Augustine's teaching a lot in the Orthodox church?。
This is my question, thank you.。
Okay, thank you. First question, I would point to St Cyprian of Carthage.。
You know that Gregory, he wasn't known in the East,。
but his teaching on sacraments outside the church and salvation outside the church。
was very important for all Latin tradition.。
And what he was saying was that he didn't actually recognize sacraments outside the church.。
How did he practically respond to it, we don't know.。
But it was a very hard position, and St Augustine corrected it.。
And after, more or less, in the ancient tradition, we don't have a practice of,。
you know, don't recognize sacraments as such, but he wasn't known in the East。
because St Gregory, not only because of St Gregory, but Gregory of Nazianzus。
confused him with another theologian, not theologian, but bishop called Cyprian of Antioch.。
And Cyprian of Antioch was a magician who converted to Christian faith。
and produced a lot of miracles.。
So they confused him, and that's why his theology was not studied and accepted。
and had no reception.。
And in the beginning of the 20th century, one of the Russian theologians。
adopted this teaching of St Cyprian, Hilarion, bishop Hilarion,。
not our contemporary, but another one, and applied it to the ecumenical movement,。
saying that outside the church there is no salvation, let's stop every ecumenism.。
One of the examples of how other fathers were received in today's Orthodoxy,。
you spoke about Ambrose and Jerome and Gregory the Great.。
I'm not sure that it's because of the filioque.。
I think that they lived in an area which was much more close to the Eastern Christianity。
because Ambrose was in Milano and the empire was still more or less united.。
That's why he was known and he also criticized harshly the emperor Theodosius。
who was after the emperor in Constantinople.。
So they knew each other very good.。
Also you have Gregory the Great who was an ambassador in Constantinople。
before he became Pope.。
And Jerome, he moved to Palestine, so he involved himself in a lot of controversies。
of that time which were very actual for the East.。
And Augustine was in Carthago.。
This church didn't exist anymore since the 7th century.。
So virtually he was one of the Western Latin fathers,。
but in reality he belonged to a generation already lost.。
All this huge tradition started with Tertullian to Hermian of Facunda。
and Fulgencius of Ruspe ended.。
And it's a great luck that we have almost all the works of St. Augustine preserved,。
but his tradition was lost.。
That's why he was too far away from the Orthodox tradition, I think.。
Any other questions?。
In your lecture you have mentioned that in the 18th century。
there is a, how to say, a breakthrough.。
Nicodemus, the reformer of the liturgical calendar,。
he added the name of Augustine and Jerome into the liturgical calendar.。
So what's the motivation behind this ad,。
I mean, addition of the name of a Latin father?。
There were very few signs in our calendar。
and many great saints were not in.。
That was his first motivation.。
He also lived in, actually we say Greece, but it was not Greece,。
it was future Greece, Greek Republic, Hellenic Republic,。
where population were mixed.。
You have a lot of Turkish people, Muslim people, Christian people,。
and I think for him the purpose was to educate people through the calendar。
because theology, it wasn't yet the independent state of Greece,。
that's why theologians, there were no theological schools or faculties,。
only for small children.。
And he wanted through this liturgical, all day,。
to educate people to go deeper to the roots.。
Also, when he spoke about frequent communion, he was criticized,。
and people, his adversaries, they said,。
"Nicodemus is taking with him always in pocket Eucharist, he is a magician."。
And what does it mean?。
It means that people criticizing him were very obscurantist,。
but also not educated enough.。
And I think it was a kind of enlightenment in Christian sense of word。
to bring to his own people, I think so.。
But why Augustine?。
Because he wasn't in the calendar.。
[laughter]。
You have also some fathers very important for the Orthodox tradition,。
as Evagrius from Egypt, you have also Theodoret of Cyrus,。
but they are more problematic because they got formal condemnation。
by some ecumenical councils, and I spoke about church of the fathers,。
that's one definition.。
Another definition of the Orthodoxy formulated in the 20th century。
was church of the seven ecumenical councils, also very important.。
That's why Augustine didn't participate in any council,。
that's why he remained unknown for the most Orthodox.。
And those fathers I mentioned, they did not participate,。
but they were condemned by the councils.。
That's why he could not put them in the calendar.。
So the second question for Tim.。
You know, for us Protestants, you know we are a Protestant church,。
our church fathers is Calvin and Luther and the Anabaptists and so forth.。
So I just wonder for the Orthodox tradition, do people actually discuss Calvin and Luther?。
How much they know about this reformer, hero, our church fathers, so called?。
We have still comparative theology in our theological faculties,。
and there we study Roman Catholic dogma and also Protestant tradition.。
And we are very critical towards the Roman Catholics。
and very sympathetic towards Protestants,。
because we say they were our friends but they didn't know about us.。
[laughter]。
But unfortunately we didn't go to some concrete theological problematics。
of that time of Martin Luther, Jean Calvin, which were very important,。
very interesting also.。
Once I spoke to a Lutheran theologian, Christoph Felmy from Germany,。
and I just shared some theological views, and he said,。
"You are like Martin Luther in your theology, but you are not Lutheran. That's good."。
[laughter]。
"And you know also about Lutheran Orthodoxy."。
[silence]。
[thud]。
[silence]。
So we have Old Testament question, right?。
There's a long way to walk.。
Thank you, Father.。
You brought us a fresh perspective that Augustine was a heretic,。
according to the Eastern Orthodox tradition, which is refreshing.。
Because I'm interested in this different perspective,。
as it has been very difficult for me this evening,。
imagining someone from Switzerland representing the East,。
whereas a Chinese young theologian from Hong Kong coming back from Oxford。
representing the West.。
It's paradoxical, but it's true.。
Different perspectives no longer divided by ethnicity, background.。
Say for Chinese Church, if the Nestorian missionary back in the 7th century。
was successful enough,。
then we would be under the Eastern Orthodox tradition rather than the West missionary movement.。
You mentioned that Augustine was called "Blessed" rather than "Saint" Augustine.。
Virgin Mary is called "Blessed," not "Saint."。
Does it imply any hierarchical order, or was it just a difference in language?。
I noticed from your three definitions of Eastern Orthodoxy,。
you did not include the word "Greek" in either of your three definitions.。
And you mentioned "Greek" quite later on.。
But according to our education from the West,。
they were the Greek fathers and the Latin fathers.。
Augustine apparently did not know any Greek or Hebrew.。
He was the Latin father.。
Was it because of language that he was misunderstood or categorized as a heretic?。
Was it language that is dividing the Church?。
Or was it, as you said, political, historical?。
I noticed that this evening we have an ecumenical language, which is English.。
It is no longer Latin in the West, in Europe.。
It's not German, but now it's English.。
And what about the 22nd century? Would it be Chinese?。
The number of Christians from mainland China will overtake all the other communities.。
What would you say about this issue of language from history, and also looking into the future?。
Please.。
That's interesting that we call all the Oriental fathers "Greek fathers," but they weren't Greek.。
And we know now more than we knew before.。
And Teodorato of Cyrus, I mentioned, he was a Syriac father.。
And John Chrysostom lived a huge Syriac experience.。
And one of the greatest fathers of the East was Meletius of Antioch.。
He sent Gregory of Nazianzus to Constantinople to preach on Trinity.。
He sent Basil the Great.。
Basil wanted to be ascetical, and he sent him to be bishop.。
And he also ordained John Chrysostom.。
But he unfortunately died during the Second Ecumenical Council of 381.。
But he was Armenian.。
And I think we have to discover this multiplicity of the ancient church.。
And I think there is something very imperialistic in this logic of Greek or Latin, Latin or Greek.。
And I think the problem is that Latins, they usually knew about Greek fathers.。
And Greek fathers didn't read Latin fathers.。
The first translations of the Trinitate of Augustine, this famous work,。
which is actually, you cannot understand Philioque without having read this work,。
it was first translated in the 13th century in Constantinople.。
And many details like this, I'm unhappy with.。
I think that also German and French and Italian and Spanish and in future。
many other languages will become more and more Christian and important for theology, I think.。
Not only English, because language is also a question of thinking.。
And we all think differently.。
And if you impose one language to everybody,。
you impose your own rules of some internal hermeneutic you even don't see and don't get it immediately.。
And that's why also I think St. Augustine was not understood enough,。
because he thought differently.。
And many Orthodox theologians in the 19th century,。
they discovered Augustine in an academic way, not in a theological way.。
And they were noticing that Augustine got a lot of lacks in his thinking.。
For instance, he identifies Platonism and Plato and Aristotle.。
For him, new Platonism is only Platonic philosophy developed.。
In Christian theology, even more.。
Now some scholars think that he didn't know Greek, but he didn't want to put it ahead.。
What is important is that now we are a little bit different compared to modernity.。
And we know that not knowing about something is not always bad.。
That's why Augustine could develop his own theology without knowing Greek theology.。
That's why it's so amazing, sometimes very paradoxical, very tragical, but different.。
And that's a very interesting story, what would happen if Nestorian missionaries came to China at that time.。
But it's also a very interesting question, because it's linked with all political developments of that time.。
You know that the Roman Empire became Orthodox,。
and all Christians outside of it had to disappear because they were in some way adhering to the Roman faith.。
Or to become different, to become monophysites or Nestorians or something like this.。
And I think this question of Augustine is also linked with the coronation of Charlemagne in the year 800,。
when he proclaimed himself the emperor.。
At that time, they did believe in one God, one Jesus Christ, one scripture, one Caesar.。
And that was a huge challenge to the imperial church in Constantinople.。
That's why they started also distancing themselves from the Latin tradition.。
And you have this coronation of Charlemagne and Fortius of Constantinople,。
almost at the same time simultaneously polemics arose between Greek and Latin Christianity.。
So from language, any related question about language, culture, from the missionary perspective?。
Anyway, I'm not forcing you.。
Okay, any other questions?。
I have a rather practical question this time.。
It's about whether it's easier for people like you to promote Augustine's work in countries or areas。
which is outside the former Byzantine areas.。
Because I noticed that in your presentation, you mentioned a lot about different theologians doing the same work.。
But most of them work in areas like in Europe, like yourself, and also in the United States.。
So I wonder, is it difficult, maybe more difficult for you to promote Augustine's work in eastern,。
the former historically eastern countries?。
Or is it more or less the same?。
This is my question. Thank you.。
In some way, yes, because there is a cliche that St. Augustine was a teacher of,。
or an example of Christian penitence.。
And the focus is on his biography.。
He was not Christian.。
He was a heretic before, he adhered to Manichaeism, after he was baptized by St. Ambrose, and that's all.。
Why? Because orthodoxy is focused on asceticism.。
It's enough.。
It's very hard, very difficult to combine theology, dogmatics, and ascetics。
lived in such a way.。
And also, it's very good to speak about yourself, Church of the Fathers,。
but you need to study Fathers.。
But if you already called yourself Church of the Fathers, you don't study the Fathers, usually like this.。
That's why it's very difficult to speak about St. Augustine,。
because everybody thinks that we know about him, everything.。
In the Western or Eastern context, outside orthodox countries,。
it's easier because you share your opinion and we are open for every kind of discussion.。
Any other questions?。
I know nothing about Augustine, and I know nothing about the Church history,。
but I know something about Psalms.。
My question would be, what is the position of reciting the Psalms in the Orthodox liturgy?。
How would that recitation be a way to form the piety and also the spirituality of the Orthodox believers?。
In order to keep Andrew not so bored,。
what do you think the position of Psalms in Augustine's own spirituality?。
It's a big question, but anyway, I think you can have something to tell us about that.。
Augustine said, "Psalms are the voice of Christ."。
That was his saying.。
And what about Psalms in the Orthodox tradition?。
I often compare it to the role of the Koran in the Islamic piety,。
because the Koran is compared to Psalms.。
We have 150 Psalms, and the Koran has 114 parts.。
And if you call it an Arabic psalm book, it would be easier to understand the structure.。
And I think Orthodox liturgy and Orthodox piety recite Psalms.。
It depends on language, because if you do it in English or in French, you have immediate understanding.。
But in Russia, Ukraine, Belorussia, we do use Church Slavonic language,。
which is not always understandable.。
So we recite Psalms in a very, sometimes very anonymous way.。
We just repeat, but some sayings are not understandable,。
because of a lack of precision in translation at that time.。
And that's why we need to also study it and to find the voice of Jesus Christ.。
That's the Augustinian approach.。
What is very interesting is that the Book of Psalms is,。
I spoke about the Bible in the Orthodox everyday life,。
and usually we don't, unfortunately, read the Bible as much as you do.。
But Psalms, we read Psalms, and the whole Book of Psalms is repeated many times during Great Lent,。
and also in ordinary time.。
Many times you have from Psalm 1 to 150 during the week,。
it's all Psalms read in our worship.。
Very interesting, because it's a unique book,。
which is very, very, quite, very often known by heart.。
Maybe I was comparing that to the Koran, because many Orthodox say it by heart,。
you know, like it comes automatically.。
Even some calculation, I was in seminary, I went to a monastery to do some work with monks,。
and they told me, "This work, you recite Psalm 50, and when you finish, it's done.。
Go."。
The Psalms, I think, are very important in Augustine.。
His confessions, you can find the Psalms everywhere.。
And the Psalms is about prayer to him, just like the confessions.。
The confessions can be seen as extended, long prayer.。
And I think he, in the confessions, after his return to the Church,。
return to his childhood faith, he went on retreat,。
and a session of the confessions actually took the form of a commentary of one of the Psalms.。
So I would say that he internalized the Psalms into his prayer and his life.。
Yeah, so I think he doesn't read the Psalms like us.。
He prays the Psalms.。
And John Calvin not only recites the Psalms, he sings the Psalms.。
So we are pretty in line together.。
Any questions?。
A sad one from you.。
I only ask one question each time, so I didn't break the rule.。
Anyway, you mentioned, I mean the discussion we mentioned about liturgy.。
Of course, in the Orthodox tradition, they emphasize liturgy is something that passed on from the past.。
So, you know, the Christendom liturgy is supposed to be from Christendom.。
Anyway, my question is that in the modern age, we talk about colloquial language,。
we talk about being engaged with the current culture,。
and obviously the Orthodox traditional liturgy is very out of touch with the modern culture in many ways.。
So in the Orthodox Church, the discussion about like,。
do we need to change some of the liturgies and some of the contemporary music。
instead of just reciting the Psalms in some, you know, reciting.。
Do we need some contemporary music in worship?。
Do they have this kind of discussion in the Orthodox community? I wonder.。
In such a degree, we do discuss about language,。
Church Slavonic, Russian, and different questions like this,。
but not changing completely our liturgy.。
For me personally, it was very astonishing that I discovered many meanings of our liturgy.。
I knew since many years as I started celebrating in French in Paris,。
as I served there, those translations were made by those intellectuals。
exposed by Lenin to France, and French was their mother tongue.。
And they were educated in philosophy and theology,。
and that's why they translated it in a magnificent way,。
very precisely, very good, very correct, very theological and profound.。
When I take a German translation of Orthodox liturgy,。
it's something I don't understand, even German people don't understand.。
We wanted to be the Calvinia, the Protestant pastor from Zurich,。
she's a pastor there, and we wanted to translate it together into a normal German language.。
You get the impression that people who translated it into German。
wanted to say, "We are not like you, we are different,。
we create another language to demonstrate what does it mean to be Orthodox among Germans."。
But they were Germans, you know, and the same story with Polish language.。
You know that the Polish Orthodox Church, it is very small, half a million people,。
but it's a very traditional church of Poland.。
We don't know about it, but it exists, and they do use Church Slavonic language.。
In some Polish translations, I try to celebrate in Polish language,。
but it's not Polish we use in our today's life,。
and it's very difficult, especially in questions of how to understand Orthodox liturgy.。
I wanted to show it to my Catholic friends, just what we pray,。
but the language was so strange that I felt ashamed.。
I think to respond to your question,。
no, we don't discuss about modern music in our liturgy, we separate both.。
If you want to pray with maybe young youth communities,。
you can sing something like Psalms, but not in the liturgy.。
Liturgy is more for us a classical way of doing things,。
but the question of language is very important.。
It seems to me we are really in the mood of exchange now,。
but our colleagues are a bit mindful of the time,。
so we really have a very rich exchange this evening.。
Thank you very much for all of you for your participation,。
and especially for those who contributed your questions during the Q&A session.。
And above all, a big thank you to Dr. Sokolowski and Andrew for your message and your response.。
So I would like to invite Dr. Sokolowski to conclude our meeting, our fellowship, with a prayer.。
Okay?。
Our Lord, we thank you for our meeting, for our discussion.。
Help us to be good Christians in today's world,。
through the prayers of St. Augustine and all your saints,。
by the power of the Holy Spirit in your Son, Jesus Christ.。
Thank you.。
Thank you very much.。
I wish you a very good evening.。
Thank you.。
[Applause]。
[Music]。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
