Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.。
My name is Daniel Lee.。
I teach systematic theology at CGST here.。
It's my great privilege to introduce our honored speaker,。
Professor Nguyen Van Mugman tonight.。
Actually, Professor Nguyen Van Mugman。
does not need an introduction.。
He has long been distinguished。
as one of the most acclaimed theologians of our time。
since the publication of his celebrated。
Theology of Hope in 1964.。
He is the architect of post-Auschwitz theology。
as well as a pioneering voice in political theology,。
ecological theology,。
feminist and Jewish-Christian dialogue.。
He demonstrates a life that has dedicated itself。
to seeking a Christian response。
to the turmoil and opportunities of our time.。
His publication list is breathtaking in length。
and many of his books are immensely influential.。
So just name a few.The Crucified God in 1974.。
The Church in the Power of the Holy Spirit,1977.。
The Trinity and the Kingdom of God in 1981.。
God in Creation in 1985.。
The Way of Jesus Christ in 1990.。
The Spirit of Life in 1992.。
The Coming of God in 1996.。
Experiences in Theology in 1999.。
Ethics of Hope,2010.。
Professor Mugman truly has great delight。
and vitality in writing.。
We've been told that he's going to publish。
a new book on Christian patients this year.。
So in his profound theological works,。
there has been a great passion for life.。
This reminds me of a beautiful prayer。
I have read in Professor Mugman's autobiography.。
It serves a quotation here.。
Quote, "When I love God,。
I love the beauty of bodies,。
the rhythm of movements,。
the shining of eyes,。
the embraces,。
the feelings,。
the sense,。
the sense of all these protein creation.。
When I love you, my God,。
I want to embrace it all,。
for I love you with all my senses。
in the creations of your love.。
In all the things that encounter me,。
you are waiting for me."。
The experience of God。
deepens the experiences of life.。
It does not reduce them,。
for they are ways。
the unconditional yes to life.。
The more I love God,。
the more gladly I exist.。
The more immediately and wholly I exist,。
the more I sense the living God,。
the inexhaustible source of life。
and eternal livingness."。
End quote.。
Such a great passion for life。
is why we are so thankful。
to have him in our midst tonight。
and to listen to his insights。
on the topic,。
a culture of life。
in the dangers of our time.。
So please join me。
and offer our warm welcome。
to Professor Yungel Mokhmar.。
Thank you, Professor Daniel Lee,。
for your kind words of introduction。
and of welcome.。
In this lecture,。
ladies and gentlemen,。
I would like to introduce。
the famous professor,。
Professor Daniel Lee.。
Ladies and gentlemen,。
I grapple with what have been。
my most urgent concerns。
for some time,。
a culture of life。
stronger than the terror of death,。
a love for life。
that overcomes。
the destructive forces。
in our world today。
and a confidence。
in the future。
that overcomes anxiety。
and fatalism.。
These issues are for me。
most urgent。
because with a poet,。
Friedrich Hölderlin,。
I believe strongly。
that where there is danger,。
salvation also grows.。
We should inquire。
whether it,。
to what extent,。
this hope will wait。
as we explore the possibilities。
of a culture of life。
and of a future.。
In the face of the real annihilation。
with which our world is threatened,。
I will begin by addressing。
some of the dangers of our time。
in part one.。
And in part two,。
I will offer some answers。
by considering dimensions。
of the world。
capable of supporting life。
and in a quite literal sense,。
a world that is worth of our love.。
And in the end,。
I'll return to the first verse。
of the poem by Hölderlin.。
Life is God,。
but difficult to grasp.。
Part one.。
The terror of universal death.。
Number one.。
Life is today in danger.。
It is not in danger。
because it is mortal.。
Human life has always been mortal.。
It is in danger。
because it is no longer loved,。
in respected and affirmed and accepted.。
The French author Albert Camus。
wrote after World War II,。
This is the mystery of Europe.。
Life is no longer loved.。
The 20th century。
was a century of mass exterminations。
and mass executions.。
State terror from above.。
The beginning of the 20th,。
21st century。
saw private terror from below。
of senseless killings。
with suicide assassins.。
In the terror rest of the 21st century,。
a new religion of death is confronting us.。
I do not mean the religion of Islam,。
but rather the ideology of terror.。
Your young people love life,。
said the late Mullah Omar of the Taliban in Afghanistan.。
Our young people love death.。
After the mass murder in Madrid on March 11, 2004,。
there were acknowledgments by the terrorists。
with the same message.。
You love life, we love death.。
A German who joined the Taliban in Afghanistan。
declared, "We don't want to win.。
We want to kill and be killed."。
Why? I think because they view killing as power。
and they experience themselves as gods over their enemies。
and they love publicity and this they get.。
This seems to be the modern terrorist ideology。
of suicide assassins.。
I remember we had this love of death in Europe。
some 70 or 80 years ago.。
"Viva la muerte" cried an old fascist general。
in the Spanish Civil War.。
Long live death.。
And the German SS troops in the Second World War。
had the saying, "Death gives and death takes away."。
And wore the symbol of the skull and the bones.。
It is not possible to deter suicide assassins。
for they have broken the fear of death.。
They don't love life anymore.。
They want to die with their victims.。
Second, behind this terrorist ideological surface。
a greater danger is hidden.。
Peace, disarmament, and non-proliferation。
treaties between the nations。
share an obvious assumption。
namely that on both sides there is a will to survive。
and a will to live.。
Yet what happens if one partner。
does not want to survive。
but is willing to die is through death.。
That partner can destroy this whole wicked。
or godless world.。
Until now we have had to deal only。
with an international network of suicide assassins。
overcome by a death wish.。
What happens when a nation possessing nuclear weapons。
becomes obsessed with this religion of death。
and turns into a collective suicide assassin。
against the rest of the human world。
because it is driven into a corner。
and gives up all hope.。
Deterrence works only so long。
as all partners have the will to live。
and want to survive.。
When it is of no matter whether one lives or dies。
one has lost the fear that is necessary for deterrence.。
Whoever is convinced for ideological or religious reasons。
that he or she must become a sacrifice。
in order to save the world。
can no longer be threatened with death.。
The one who clamors for the great war or the end war。
even if it means one's own destruction。
is beyond deterrence.。
The attraction of destroying a world。
that is considered rotten or disordered or godless。
can obviously grow into a universal death wish。
to which one sacrifices one's own life.。
Death then becomes this fascinating divinity。
inflaming a desire for destruction.。
This apocalyptic religion of death。
is a real enemy of the will to live。
the love of life and the affirmation of being.。
Number three, the suicide program.。
Behind this present political danger。
endangering the common life of the nations。
there is still an older threat lurking。
the nuclear threat.。
The first atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima。
in August 1945。
brought the world war to an end.。
At the same time is marked the beginning。
of the end time for the whole of humankind.。
The end time is in the age。
in which the end of humankind is possible at any moment.。
No human being could survive the nuclear winter。
that would follow a great atomic war.。
Remember humankind was at the cusp。
of such a great atomic war。
for more than 40 years。
during the cold war time.。
It is true that since the end of the cold war in 1990。
the great atomic war is not as likely.。
We live in relative peace.。
Yet there are so many atomic and hydrogen bombs。
stored up in the arsenals of the great nations。
and some smaller ones as well。
that the self annihilation of humankind。
remains a distinct possibility.。
The Russian atomic scientist Sakharov。
called it collective suicide of humankind.。
Whoever fires first dies second.。
For those 40 years。
we depended on mutual destruction for security.。
Most people had forgotten this atomic threat。
until President Barack Obama in 2009 speech。
lived in Prague。
revived the old dream of the world free of atomic bombs。
and started new disarmament negotiations with Russia.。
But in 2017 Donald Trump threatened North Korea。
with fury and fire with atomic bombs.。
Then many of us became aware again of this destiny。
hanging like a dark cloud over the nations.。
Strangely enough we feel the presence of the nuclear threat。
publicly in what American psychologists call nuclear numbing.。
We repress our anxiety。
try to forget this threat。
and live if this danger were not there.。
Yet it is gnawing at our subconsciousness。
in impairing our love of life.。
Number four, the social conditions of misery.。
A general impairment of life also exists。
in the miserable social conditions.。
For more than 40 years we have heard repeatedly。
and everywhere the charge that despite of all political efforts。
the social gap between the rich and the poor is widening.。
It is not just in the poorer countries of the third world。
that a small rich sector of the population。
rules over the masses of the poor.。
In the democracies of the developed world。
the financial asset gap between financiers on the one hand。
and low income workers, welfare recipients, the unemployed。
and those not able to work on the other hand takes on obscene proportions.。
Yet democracy is grounded not only in the freedom of the citizens。
but also in the equality without social justice in life opportunities.。
In the comparability of life circumstances。
the common will dies and with it what holds a society together falls apart.。
Trust is lost.。
Since the democratic revolutions in England, the United States and France。
the political task in the European states。
has been the balancing of individual freedom and social equity.。
The deregulation of the economy and fiscal institutions。
wrought by American politics with all its destructive consequences。
has led to an imbalance between freedom and equality。
that has become life threatening for many people.。
It has led to the disempowerment and poverty.。
A capitalism that is no longer politically controllable。
through the common wealth becomes an enemy of democracy。
because it destroys the common meaning of a society.。
Climbing on the social ladder brings anxiety.。
In the modern competitive society。
the loser creates the force of the winner.。
The winner creates the anxiety of life.。
The anxiety of life creates nothing。
but the anxiety of existence for modern human beings.。
Yet is anxiety a good incentive for life, for work and for happiness?。
I doubt.。
At the end, the ecological conditions of world destruction。
unlike the nuclear threat, climate change is not only a threat。
but already an emerging reality everywhere.。
It is not only a latent problem。
but also very much a matter of public consciousness.。
People know it because they can see it, feel it and sometimes smell it.。
The biosphere of the planet Earth is the only space we have for life.。
The globalization of the human civilization has reached its limits。
and is beginning to alter the conditions of life on Earth.。
The destruction of the environment。
that we are causing through our present global economic system。
will undoubtedly, seriously jeopardize the survival of humanity。
in the 21st century.。
Modern industrial society is thrown out of the balance,。
the equilibrium of the Earth organism。
and is on the way to the universal ecological death.。
Unless we can change the way things are developing.。
Year after year, vulnerable species of animals and plants die out.。
Scientists have shown that certain chemical emissions are destroying the ozone layer。
while the use of chemical fertilizers and a multitude of pesticides。
is polluting our drinking water and making the soil infertile.。
They have shown that the global climate is already changing。
so that we are now experiencing an increasing number of。
so-called natural catastrophes。
such as droughts and floods, expanding deserts and incessant storms.。
These are not simply natural but also caused by human activities.。
All in all, life on Earth is under threat.。
Why is this so?。
This is some irony, I say, some do not know what they are doing。
while others do not know what they are knowing.。
This ecological crisis is fundamentally a crisis。
wrought by the Western scientific and technological civilization.。
Yet it is a mistake to think that our environmental problems。
are problems for the industrialized countries of the region.。
On the contrary, ecological catastrophes are increasing even more。
in the midst of a rising global economic and social crisis in their development.。
Indira Gandhi was right when she said poverty is the worst pollution.。
Despite the well-known document of limits of growth,。
the ideology of permanent growth continues.。
We know all this, but we are paralyzed。
and do not change our economy or our lifestyle.。
This paralysis will be called ecological numbing.。
Nothing accelerates an imminent catastrophe。
so much as the paralysis of doing nothing.。
We do not know whether humanity will survive this self-made destiny.。
This is actually a good thing.。
If we knew with certainty that we would not survive,。
we would do nothing.。
If we knew with certainty that we will survive,。
we would also do nothing.。
Only if the future is open for both possibilities。
are we forced to do today what is necessary to survive tomorrow.。
We cannot know whether humankind will survive,。
so we must act today as if the future of life depends on us。
and trust at the same time that our children will survive.。
But must a human race exist and survive。
or are we just an accident of nature?。
We can ask cynically,。
didn't the dinosaurs come and go?。
So it ends with the question of existence,。
whether humanity should be or not be.。
That is a humbled question of our days.。
More than 8 billion human beings already live on earth today.。
This number will likely grow rapidly.。
An alternative for the future。
is that the earth could be uninhabited.。
The earth existed without human beings。
for more than millions of years。
and may survive perhaps for millions of years。
after the human race disappears.。
This raises the even deeper question,。
are we human beings on earth only by chance。
or are we human beings a necessary result of the evolution?。
If nature would show a strong anthropic principle,。
we could feel at home in the universe with Stuart Kaufman.。
If such a stark anthropological principle cannot be proved,。
the universe gives no answer to this existential question of humankind.。
Looking to the universe for an answer to the question of a reason for being,。
we encounter the sad conjecture of Steven Weinberg.。
The more the universe seems comprehensible,。
the more it also seems pointless.。
The silence of the world's expanses。
and the coldness of the universe can lead to our despondence.。
In any case,neither the stars nor our genes。
say whether human beings should be there or not.。
How can we love life and affirm our being as humans。
if humanity is only an accident of nature,。
so perfidious and without relevance for the universe,。
but is only a mistake of the evolution?。
Is there a duty to be as Hans Jonas claimed?。
Is there any reason to love life and affirm human beings。
if we find no answer to this existential question。
every culture of life is uncertain in its fundamentals。
and built on shaky grounds?。
With this I start part two.。
A culture of life must be a culture of common life。
in the human and the natural world.。
First point,can we live with a bomb?。
Are the dangers growing faster。
than what can save us?。
I think we can grow in wisdom,but how?。
President Obama's dream of a world without atomic weapons。
is an honorable one,but only a dream.。
Human beings will never again become incapable。
of what they can do now.。
Whoever has learned the formula of atomic fission。
will never forget.。
Since Hiroshima in 1945,。
human kind has lost its atomic innocence.。
Yet the atomic end time。
is also the first common age of the nations.。
All the nations are sitting in the same boat.。
We all share the same threat.。
Everyone can become the victim.。
In this new situation,。
human kind must organize itself。
as the subject of common survival.。
The foundation of the United Nations in 1945。
was a first step.。
International security partnership。
can serve peace and give us time to live.。
And someday,。
perhaps a transnational unification of humankind。
will keep the means of nuclear destruction under control.。
By science and technology,。
we learned to gain power over nature.。
But by wisdom,。
we learned to gain moral control of our powers.。
The development of public and political wisdom。
is as important as the scientific progress.。
The first lesson we learned is this.。
Deterrence does not secure peace anymore.。
Only justice serves peace between the nations.。
There is no way to peace in our world。
except through just action。
and harmonious balance of interests.。
Peace is not the absence of violence,。
but the presence of justice.。
Peace is a process,。
not a property of one nation.。
Peace is a common way of reducing violence。
and constructing justice。
in the social and global relationships of humankind.。
Point two.。
Social justice creates social peace.。
The gap between the poor and the rich widens.。
But the alternative to poverty is not poverty.。
The alternative to poverty and poverty is community.。
One can live in poverty。
when it is born in common with others。
as was the case in Europe。
in the years of hunger after the World War II.。
It is injustice that makes poverty insufferable.。
The spirit of communal solidarity。
and mutual help was demolished。
by the flight from Texas。
which in turn aroused the anger of the people.。
If everyone is in the same situation。
then all give mutual help.。
Remove equality because one wins and the other loses。
then mutual help also vanishes.。
By community I here mean。
the visible community of solidarity。
as well as the inner togetherness of society。
in social balance and social freedom.。
It is not in the end the football games。
that unite a society.。
It is social justice。
that creates lasting social peace.。
The individualism that says。
everyone is his or her own neighbor。
looking out for himself and herself。
makes the human beings powerless.。
The fragmenting of work。
by making it temporarily insecure。
and without benefits。
harms the life planning of those。
at the mercy of the system。
and destroys their future.。
In communities of solidarity。
human beings are strong and wealthy。
that is wealthy in relationships。
with neighbors and friends。
companions and colleagues。
of which one can depend.。
They are thus made strong。
by being recognized。
and by being esteemed as worthy.。
Many helpful actions。
emerge in such communities。
as child care, care of the sick。
and care of the aged, associations。
of the handicapped and the health peace movement.。
Market position and competition。
are certainly strong incentives for work。
but they remain humane。
only in the framework of a common life。
and that means only in the bounds。
of social and ecological justice.。
There are dimensions of life。
that may not be determined。
by the market logic。
because they follow other laws.。
Patients are not customers of doctors and nurses。
and students are not consumers of science。
and research in our universities.。
Security must not be a private property。
and the reverence for life。
because human society。
is a natural environment。
for a total life system。
where there is a crisis of dying in nature。
a crisis of the whole life system。
emerges as well.。
We call today the ecological crisis。
is not only a crisis in our environment。
but also a total crisis of our life system。
and cannot be solved by technological means alone.。
It also demands a change in our lifestyle。
and a change in the basic values。
and convictions of our society.。
Modern industrial societies。
are no longer in harmony。
with the cycles and rhythms of the earth。
as was the case in pre-modern agrarian societies.。
Modern societies are predicated on progress。
and expansion of the projects of humanity.。
We reduce the nature of the earth。
to our environment。
and destroy the life space of other forms of life.。
Nothing works so much destruction。
as with using nature to more than an environment for humans.。
We need a change from modern domination of nature。
to the reverence for life。
as Albert Schweitzer teaches us.。
Reverence for life is respect for every single form of life。
and for our common life in the human and the natural world。
and for the great community of all the living.。
The post-modern life centrism。
will have to replace the western and modern。
anthropocentrism of culture.。
Of course we cannot return to the cosmos orientation。
of the ancient and pre-modern agrarian world。
but we can begin the necessary。
ecological transformation of our industrial world.。
For this we must change our concept of time.。
The linear concept of progress。
in production, consumption and waste。
has the future, the present and the past。
must give way to the concept of the cyclical time。
of renewable energy。
and the recycling economy.。
Only this cycles of life。
can give stability to our world of progress.。
Yet as long as the children of Ghana。
bear the burden of recycling。
or electronic scrap。
we must say that the recycling economy。
is still the economy of the poor people.。
The 2000s charter points in the right direction.。
Humanity is part of nature。
or other life forms of nature。
have their worth independent of their worth。
for human beings.。
We are part of nature。
and can only survive。
by preserving nature's integrity.。
The last part, the love of life in times of danger.。
Human being is not only a gift of life。
but also a task of being human.。
To accept this task of humanity in times of terror。
requires the strength of life。
and the courage to be.。
Life must be a front against terror。
to say simply。
life must be lived。
and then the beloved life。
will be stronger。
than the threat of universal annihilation.。
I see three major factors。
for this courage to be。
and this courage to live.。
First, human life must be affirmed。
because it can also be denied.。
As we know, a child can only grow。
and live in an atmosphere of affirmation。
and an atmosphere of rejection。
that child will fade away in soul and body.。
If experiencing affirmation。
is the occasion for a child。
to affirm himself or herself.。
What is true for a child。
is true for human beings。
throughout their lives.。
We are accepted, appreciated and affirmed.。
We are motivated to live。
where we feel a hostile world of contempt。
and rejection and mistrust.。
We retire into ourselves and become defensive.。
We need a strong affirmation of life。
that can deal with such negations of life.。
Each year to life is stronger。
than every negation of life。
because it can create something new。
against the negations.。
Second, human life is participation.。
We become alive。
where we feel the sympathy of others。
and we stay alive。
where we share our life with others.。
As long as we are interested, we are alive.。
The counterproof can be easy to make.。
Indifference leads to apathy。
and apathy is a sickness unto death.。
Complete lack of participation。
is completely unlived life.。
Third, human life is a life。
in the pursuit of fulfillment.。
Human life gains its dynamic。
from this inborn striving.。
The pursuit of happiness。
is since the writing of the Declaration。
of Independence of America。
one essential human right。
to pursue one's happiness。
is not only a private human right。
but also a public human right.。
We speak of a good life。
and we mean a life。
that lives out its best potential。
in the public life of a good society.。
When we take this pursuit of happiness seriously。
we encounter the misfortune。
of the masses of poor and sick people。
and to begin to suffer with the unfortunate.。
The compassion by which we are drawn。
into their passion of life。
is the reverse side of the pursuit of happiness.。
The more we become capable of the happiness of life。
the more we become also capable of sorrow and compassion.。
This is the great dialectic of human life.。
But where there is danger, salvation also grows.。
How is salvation growing?。
I've tried to show how being can take in non-being。
and how life can overcome death through love。
and how deadly contradictions can change into a life.。
And how death can change into a protective differences。
and higher forms of living and community.。
Near is God and difficult to grasp.。
Here at the end I will allow the theologian。
with declarations of Christian faith.。
Should humanity be or I be superfluous?。
Is there a duty to survive or our life and death。
simply take or leave it matter?。
In the evolution of life,。
are we an accident or a mistake of life?。
The existential questions of humankind。
are not only answered by rational arguments.。
But first of all by pre-rational assurance。
or a lack of assurance that leads the interest of our reason.。
Difficult to grasp is God.。
Not because God is distant from us human beings。
but rather near and therefore difficult to grasp.。
What is near indeed nearer to us than we ourselves。
is not to be grasped by us.。
We would need distance for that.。
If we were however grasped by the nearness of God。
we would know the answer to our existential questions.。
In the eternal yes of the living God。
we affirm our fragile and vulnerable humanity。
in spite of death and say yes to life.。
In the eternal love of God。
we love life and resist its devastations.。
In the ungraspable nearness of God。
we trust in what is saving even if dangers are growing.。
Here ends the lecture.。
(掌声)。
謝謝大家。
