[Music]。
So let's see if anyone wants to ask the first question.。
Just to kick off the discussion, thank you Dr. Wright and also the two respondents.。
Dr. Wright, you mentioned that we inherit the Abrahamic identity as a Christian church,。
and then you mentioned several points about we are a community of blessings and also we。
are a community of elects. This is one point which I think Old Testament studies has been。
struggling for long. The difference between the elect and the non-elect or the unelects, and。
especially, you know, in the conquest narratives, the chosen Israelites were commanded to erase all。
the other races. So this, the kind of like violence has got a kind of legitimate reason to be done on。
other non-elects, but at the same time we are chosen to be a nation to bring blessings to the。
many nations. So sounds like there's a tension between these two identities. So Dr. Wright,。
could you enlighten us on this problem? Thank you. I will try. Is this live? Yes. Thank you.。
Thank you, Dr. Chung. Thank you. That's a question that always arises,。
so it's not surprising. I'll take this off.。
Just to say, one of the books I've written is called The God I Don't Understand, and in that。
book, The God I Don't Understand, one of the parts, several chapters in the book are called。
What About the Canaanites, which is exactly what you're asking, and I think there are several。
perspectives to bring to bear on that. First of all, I would want to say that the distinction。
between elect and non-elect tends into a very sort of systematic theology way of talking. I don't。
think it's particularly there significantly in the Old Testament. Israel knows that God has chosen。
them because he called them into existence by Abraham, but it is explicitly for the sake of。
other nations. So it's not as if to say the choice of Israel is the rejection of all the other。
nations, it's actually ultimately for their blessing. However, that still leaves your。
question, and it's a good one. The fact that God could both choose to want in his long-term。
purposes to bless the nations, and yet also reserves the right to exercise judgment on。
particular nations, we need to understand. And in a sense, it's very similar to what we see in our。
own human lives. As a parent, my long-term desire for my children is that they will be blessed. I。
want them to flourish, I want them to be a blessing to others, I want them to grow up whole and。
healthy, so my long-term purpose is good. But that does not mean that I can't punish them when they。
do wrong. There's no contradiction between wanting their blessing and exercising punishment or。
discipline when they're disobedient. Now, it's quite important to recognize that the reason why。
God explicitly says that the Israelites would drive out the Canaanites in the conquest is because。
that whole culture, that whole nation, had become so wicked before God that they now merited。
judgment in a way that they had not in the time of Abraham. So God says to Abraham, "I'll bring you。
people into this land, but not now, because the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full." That's。
in Genesis 15. In other words, boldly, God is saying they're not yet "wicked enough for me to。
destroy them, but that day will come." So we need to perceive it as an act of judgment. That would。
be the first thing. The second thing to say is that God did warn the Israelites and say to them,。
"Look, if you go the way of the Canaanites, I will do the same to you as you are going to do to them.。
That is, I will drive you out of the land." So simply being the elect people of God did not spare。
them God's judgment. In fact, God says to them through Amos in Amos 9, "You only of all the。
nations have I known or chosen. You are my chosen people, therefore I will punish you," says God.。
Not, "Therefore you'll be always okay and everybody else." No, the elect also experienced God's。
judgment, and they did, as you know, because God drove them into exile. And I think the last thing。
I would say is we shouldn't make it simply that God was always pro-Israel and anti-foreigner,。
because the book of Joshua subverts that. Fascinatingly, the book of Joshua,。
coming after Deuteronomy, which was talked about God driving out the Canaanites and so on,。
the very first Canaanite that we meet in the book of Joshua is one who repents, is converted,。
and is saved, and that's Rahab. And a chapter later, we have an Israelite, Echan, who,。
although he's one of the elect people, ends up disobeying God and putting himself and his whole。
family under God's judgment and wrath, and he's destroyed. So you have an outsider who comes into。
salvation and blessing, and you have an insider who experiences God's wrath. So the book of。
Joshua is, in a sense, subverting the simplistic idea, "We're righteous, we're elect, they're big."。
It's saying, "No, no, no, what counts here is loyalty to God, faithfulness to God." And the last。
thing would be to say, "I think we need to see that this is one part of a story which ultimately。
leads us to the cross and the resurrection." It's not meant to be a paradigm for how God's people。
should always want to exterminate their enemies. Tragically, in the history of the Christian。
church, it has been used that way in North America, in Australia, in South Africa, and elsewhere,。
where people have felt, "We are the Israelites, and these indigenous people are the Canaanites,。
let's just destroy them." That's a totally wrong hermeneutic, I think, of scripture.。
So that's a quick answer to a very profound question.。
But that's also my answer to my student in my class, actually. Well, to echo my response。
at the Book of Joshua as a literature, there's a long history of receptions about how to deal with。
the genocides problems in the Book of Joshua. And we talk about ethics of readings, because。
at a later time, especially maybe North American, they driving out the Indians, they used the Book。
of Joshua as their test to legitimize their actions. And that is a very dangerous action.。
And so we talk about ethics of readings. We have a responsibility when we read the text.。
And so we must be aware that election is not favoritism. Election means more responsibility.。
That's my Old Testament teacher, Stephen, I mean, told us. And that's why when we read the text,。
we must be very careful not putting it into our pocket and abuse it. That maybe appoints us as a。
human being, as readers, as a general people who read the Bible as a literature. So echoing my。
response, that's a very good, important point to remember. We are not using it as a particular。
proof test for a community to act for some purpose. It is actually for the general public that is。
important, too. So we are criticizing the way of re-reading it, not criticizing the text.。
So that's a good way to respond to this kind of questions.。
- Yes, I think that, I like the sentence that Dr. Wright has written. It's about elections,。
it's not about privilege, it's about responsibility. I think it's very insightful for me.。
And also, I think in a similar way for today, church is also, we are being chosen as church,。
it's not a privilege, it's a responsibility for us to serve the society, serve the earth,。
to bless our community, not just for a privilege. And I feel I'm superior than the others,。
not in this case. I think we have to be more humble, just like in the Old Testament,。
the election is like this way, I think so. - Thank you, thank you. I'll just add one more。
point, if I may, in relation to the reading of Joshua. We also need to recognize what kind。
of literature it is, and there's a lot of scholarship now has shown that the rhetoric。
of warfare, which is common to the ancient Near East, not just to the Bible, was very much given。
to a kind of hyperbolic, a hyperbole exaggerated way of talking when you were describing battles.。
And we know that in Assyrian and other texts, where texts would say that they completely。
wiped out, that they no longer exist, some anyway, and we know that it was a battle in which a few。
hundred people were killed, but it was not an extermination. We also know that the book of。
Joshua can say that Joshua destroyed everything that lived and breathed. And then a few chapters。
later, we discover there's a whole lot of people still there that the book of Judges is worried。
about. So it's clear that there is an understood level of exaggeration and hyperbole, which was。
not necessarily exactly what happened on the ground. And it's interesting that the language。
of driving out is used almost as much as the language of kill, which suggests that actually。
what a lot of the Canaanites did was they took to the hills and were still there. What was destroyed。
were the cities, the little fortified cities where the kings were, or the chiefs. And that's。
what Joshua wiped out, a kind of strategic destruction of the armored fortifications.。
But a lot of the Canaanite population seems to have survived, and then that was sometimes。
problematic. But later on, you could get Canaanite cities like the city of Jebus,。
the Jebusites. The Jebusites are one of the nations that the Israelites were told to exterminate in。
Deuteronomy. Later on, they come over to Israel and become one of the tribes of Israel. In fact,。
so much so that Zechariah can talk about how God will make the Philistines to be like the Jebusites.。
That is, they will become a clan in Israel. So it's not as simplistic as it seems in terms of。
reading the text. That's why it's not just an ethic of reading the text. It's also reading the。
text as the kind of genre that it is, and with the parameters and the assumptions that went。
into that sort of literature. Thank you. Let's take another question from the floor.。
Thank you, Dr. Wright, your lecture. I'm a CJST student, and here I want to ask a fundamental。
question first, before continuing the discussion on the Old Testament as Christian scripture.。
What is the relationship among God's story, the narrative of the Old Testament, and our。
present history? As different critical scholars have argued, the biblical narrative, especially。
the Old Testament, is not as literal nor historical as the pre-Enlightenment period。
has thought. Or as you have just mentioned, there are parts of exaggeration. So if our present。
history is not the same continuing history with those history-like narratives of the Bible,。
but they are on the different planes, different levels, how can we still relate God's story with。
our own present history? Thank you. Thank you. That's a good question, because obviously。
historiography, that is, ways of writing history, differ throughout the ages, and what one might。
call the so-called post-Enlightenment attempt to write scientific history, even though that's not。
a very good word, would not have been necessarily the way people pre-Enlightenment, even in Europe,。
would have thought of what history was. I would want to make a distinction between。
the kind of historiography which wants to get everything simply precisely as it happened,。
as you would have seen if you'd been there or watching it on television, and the way of writing。
about with referentiality, that is, with reference to real events that actually happened.。
That's what is important to say. In other words, something which would be historical in that sense。
of the word, but writing about it in a way which is not necessarily the way we would do modern。
history. In other words, if I am reading the book of Exodus, I'm wanting to say this book is about。
something that happened. It's not a myth in our modern, it's not just all made up. It is describing。
reality that God did this, that this happened, that Israelites came out of Egypt, but it's not。
necessarily, therefore, to say that everything happened just exactly like this as you picture。
it as you read these words. In other words, this is real history. This is truth. God did deliver。
the Israelites out of Egypt, because, to put it bluntly, like Paul says about the resurrection,。
if there is no resurrection of the dead, then our faith is in vain. In other words,。
the resurrection of Christ has to be the historical event that it's presented as。
being in the New Testament, with all the evidence that's there, including the eyewitness.。
I want to say, if the Exodus never happened, then the whole rest of the Bible story becomes。
a nonsense, because so much of it is founded there. So I'm wanting to say that there is。
historical referential truth in the biblical narrative. This is describing what God did in。
human history. But that is not quite the same thing as saying that the way in which the literature,。
and this is going to your point, is that the Bible also has a brilliant way of recording history in a。
way which is also a jolly good story. In other words, there is a literary quality to the narratives。
of David or of Saul or of Joseph and so on. There is a literary quality to them in which there's a。
high degree of skill and art, but that's not to say that this didn't happen. Anymore that I look。
at a painting of a historical person, and I know that that is a painting, it's not a photograph,。
and even if it were a photograph, it could have been doctored. But here is art, but it's art that。
represents a reality. There is such a person, and I think that's what I want to say about the Old。
Testament. So that says, yeah, there's a difference between contemporary post-enlightened scientific。
historiography and ancient ways of telling stories about what happened, but that doesn't mean that。
the Bible, quote, "is not true" in the way it claims to be the truth about what God has done。
in history. Does that help to answer your question? I don't know whether you want to。
add to that as a professor. That's actually a lecture in my class that I mentioned.。
Historiography, how you write history. Well, there's two categories. One is the historical。
event. One is the historical representation, the writing, the historiography, or the writing of。
the history. If you distinguish these two categories, you won't have much struggle.。
Maybe you will still have struggle, but you're less struggling with these writings or the biblical。
narrative, as you said. Because the historical event and the historical writing are far apart,。
and how this is representing the event is artistically, literally, or aesthetically,。
or many features to representing the purpose of the writing, not the event. Because the event is。
long gone, far apart from the writing. And the writing, why the people write this event,。
is to fulfill or to meet some purpose, especially when we talk about reduction,。
or source criticism, or later on, the traditionaling. It's for the people of exile,。
the exilic community, to read this event as meaningful for them. So the historiography,。
the literary representation of the event, may be very different from the event itself,。
but we don't know it. But we believe that the event is there, but how the Israelite or how the。
scripture is representing the event may be different. So this kind of understanding,。
or firstly, in Old Testament studies, in archaeology maybe, we want to know the event,。
how it happened. But when we read the Old Testament as literature, we are talking about。
how it is told. How the form, how the literary feature, how to persuade or engage the text with。
us. So if we distinguish two categories, it might be more helpful for us to read the Bible as the。
historical narrative. >> And I agree with that. And to just add,。
it's not necessarily the case that all the writing of the stories of the Old Testament。
happened many centuries later, because, I mean, I don't want to say yes. We know that, for example,。
the Deuteronomistic history takes you right up to the coming of the exile. So clearly, whoever has。
edited that material was living in exile and knew this stuff. But it's very likely, very possible,。
that the sources which was used within that, including some of the annals of the kings。
that he refers to from time to time, and some of the poetry that would have been much closer to the。
original events. So for example, many Old Testament scholars would say that something like the Song of。
Deborah is pretty ancient poetry, not necessarily very much later than the Book of Judges. Similarly,。
the Song of Moses, the ancient Hebrew. So while one can say yes, this is referring to events which。
had happened many centuries earlier for the purposes of edifying those who were living later,。
and needed to reflect back on them, doesn't necessarily mean that it was all simply,。
as it were, only recorded centuries after it had happened. And even if that were the case,。
we know that within pre-modern cultures of enormous orality and oral memory,。
that actually oral preservation of literary material was actually very profound. And finally,。
I would just say, in the Bible as a whole, we have documents which are very close to their。
actual events, such as the Gospels. I mean, even the earliest Gospel, we're talking about just。
a matter of a decade or two after the crucifixion of Christ. So, you know, right across the Bible,。
we have different levels. And the same thing would be true that Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John。
are recording historical events, but they're also works of literature. They also have enormous。
structure, enormous artistic ways in which the text is using, but they are referring to actual。
events. Thank you. Let's see if there is anyone else. Yes.。
Thank you very much, Dr. Wright, for your wonderful lecture. I think, thank you very。
much for picking identity as the first entrance into the series, because nowadays people are。
struggling with the identity. And I think because there are so many identities to a person,。
so we don't know which one to hold on to. And your lecture actually points to a very important one,。
but see, even for Christians, we have identity crisis. So just saying that, well, Christian。
should be your main identity, doesn't really answer the question, right? So in our imagination,。
back in the Old Testament time, things were much simpler, right? Your identity is God's people,。
and then your whole culture, religion, everything belongs to one set identity, and you're well,。
right? So could you enlighten us whether that is actually the case, or for people living in。
post-modernity, where we are struggling with multiple identities, how that Christianity can。
help us or inform us about identity? Yes, picking up your response, and I appreciate what you said,。
because I think the question of identity in a place like Hong Kong clearly is a major issue,。
because, you know, where do you belong in the world? And what does it mean to be that?。
And I sympathize with you on that. I come from Northern Ireland, as you may have guessed,。
so the accent a bit, and Northern Irish people, we struggled with our identity. Are we Irish?。
Are we British? I'm certainly not English, which Americans find very difficult to understand,。
you know, just like you'd be Texan or American. So when I tell people, yeah,。
I'm British, but not English, so what's the difference? Well, I'm not English, I'm Irish,。
you know, I support Ireland playing rugby against England, you know, I'm totally impartial,。
I don't care who beats England, you know, in rugby or cricket or anything else. So my identity also。
has that complicated nature. In fact, I came here to Hong Kong with my Irish passport, because when,。
I'm showing my signs here, when the stupid English decided Brexit to leave the European Union,。
there were a whole lot of us who said, that's a daft idea. Unfortunately, me having been born in。
Ireland, I am able to get an Irish passport, so I've now got one. So I'm both British, I've a。
British passport, and I've got an Irish passport, and I'm pleased about that. But coming back to。
the question, I think from a biblical point of view, not just New Testament, but also Old Testament,。
the identity of belonging to the God who is the creator of the nations, means that your。
covenantal identity as belonging to Yahweh is first, but it does not erase, it doesn't rule。
out the fact that you are ethnically one thing or another, in the Children of Israel's case,。
ethnically Jewish, but Rahab becomes part of the people of God, and she's a Canaanite. Ruth becomes。
a member of Israel, and goes into the genealogy of the Messiah, and she's a Moabite. Bathsheba。
is of the parentage of Solomon, and she was almost certainly a Hittite, because her husband was.。
And the Psalm 87 answers this question by saying that the people of Cush and Philistia,。
and lists a whole number of nations, will say, "I was born in Zion." Well, they weren't ethnically。
Israelite, but they're claiming Israelite identity. Why? Because they belong to Yahweh,。
which is why Yahweh can say, "Even of Egypt, Egypt my people, and Assyria my inheritance,。
and Israel my handiwork," at the end of Isaiah chapter 19. So identity in the Old Testament is。
both spiritual identity under God, and that's prior, and that then redeems and blesses all。
other cultural identities. And that, I think, is why it's so important when we get to Revelation,。
that the people who are gathered before the throne of God are not just one big homogeneous blob of。
humanity, but it's specifically people of every tribe, and language, and nation, and culture.。
And to me, that is important ethnically, because it shows that God loves cultures. So God is as。
pleased that I'm a Christian, Irish Christian, as that you are a Chinese Christian, and that that。
will remain so in the new creation, that we'll not all just be the same, but it's not so much。
a bowl of soup in which all the ingredients just get mixed together in a melting pot. It's like a。
salad bowl in which all the ingredients preserve their color, and their texture, and their flavor,。
and yet become one salad, one humanity with many different... That, I think, is beautiful. I think。
it's what God wants. Now, how that then works out politically and so on is very important.。
The problem is when Christians get it in the reverse order, and you get a form of so-called。
Christian nationalism, which we see, for example, I hope I can speak freely, in the United States,。
where you have a kind of Christian Americanism or American Christianism, in which they're more or。
less identified so that the cause of my view of what it is to be American equals my view of what。
it is to be Christian. Now, I grew up with that, because in Northern Ireland, there were banners。
that said, "For God and Ulster." That's Northern Ireland. And so the assumption was that to be a。
Protestant Northern Ireland person was the definition of being a Christian. You identified。
your Christian identity with political Protestantism, and that was a very dangerous thing,。
because it ends up leading to violence, and to pride, and to arrogance, and to exclusivism,。
and so on. So that kind of nationalistic identity, I think, is what's dangerous. So that's why I used。
to, there was a newspaper in Northern Ireland called The Christian Irishman. I used to always。
wish it was the other way around. I'm not a Christian Irishman. I'm an Irish Christian.。
My identity is in Christ. I'm a Christian first, who happens to be Irish. That is the adjective.。
The noun is a man in Christ. >> That's a very good point. And。
just what I respond to, the identity crisis of Israelites and even Abrahams is more captivating。
for us today in Hong Kong, especially in this unfavorable time. And in my Divinity School,。
we will stress on the plurality of the identity of the Israelites, even after the exilic community。
of the Persian period, which is, say, in the Old Testament, actually, it reflects a variety of。
point of views of their identities, say the Diaspora, Daniel, Esther, even Joseph stories,。
and the Returnees, the Israel Lehemia, and the Golas, and the people of the lands in Jeremiah,。
and there's all sorts of people that identify as Israelites, but with different。
components of their identities. So this is quite enumerating, I think, for us in Hong Kong,。
because we will have some common core in our identities, but there's still a variety of。
identities that we can choose from, which is also biblical, too, and which helps us to even,。
especially as you point out in the postmodern, fermentize the societies, our social identities。
are also fermentized, but if we look at the plurality of the Old Testament, that is a very。
helpful feature for us today, in Hong Kong, especially.。
Yes, I think that it is very complicated for identity, because we have different levels, I。
think. Some identities seem more important, for example, a Christian identity, maybe it is more。
important than my national identity, maybe like this, so it is very complicated. But I think that。
as my response has said, I think identity is closely related to our experience, and also。
about the story that we believe we want to enter that story. So it is not just a title, or just。
something that's imposed from outside, or they say I am who, who, who, that is, I think we have the。
relationship with the community, and also with the whole story, and I agreed, and I believe the。
story that I own that identity, so I don't think it's just a title. So I think it's very complicated,。
because everyone has different experiences. So just we are in Hong Kong, but we don't think we。
have the same identity as well, yeah. - I would say, thank you, yeah, that you see,。
if you look at the New Testament, that would have been a huge problem for people who came to faith。
in Jesus from multiple different backgrounds, especially slaves, and other ethnicities. And。
that's why I think both Paul and Peter seem to be doing in their letters quite a bit of identity。
formation. There's a sociological dimension to those epistles, because here are people who are。
extracted and somehow becoming severed from the, who you belong to. You see, your identity really。
comes from who you belong to. If you, who are you? You are who, you are the people you belong。
to, that you share their story. And so that's why Peter will say to those exiles scattered abroad,。
he says in his opening verses, you are the people of God. You are this people. This is who you are,。
because this is your story. This story is now your story. You weren't among the Israelites。
when they came out of Egypt, but you've had your exodus experience, and you know that people.。
So the letters of Paul and Peter, in a sense, are giving an identity to a people whose identities。
at a human level had often been shattered because of their faith in Christ. And he's creating。
this sociological identity, and yet not losing the fact that they would come from various tribes and。
nations, because that's whom God wants to bless. So God is going to bless all the nations. So Paul。
says his mission is to bring about the obedience of faith among all nations. And when you look at。
his list of friends in Romans 16, all those names are a mixture of Jewish and Gentile names. One or。
two would be very much like slave names. And so Paul's Romans 16 is almost an embodiment of the。
whole epistle. Here is Paul saying the gospel is about creating one new humanity, the promise of。
God to Abraham. And here are my friends, and they embody it in my team of Jew and Gentile in Christ.。
Thank you. Yes, I think we have another question from the floor. Yeah.。
Hi, everyone. And I have a follow-up question for Dr. Lee, as you respond.。
As you mentioned, one highlight is in a Hong Kong context, how the Old Testament。
revealed the insight as a Christian identity in Hong Kong context. Can you elaborate more about。
the similarities between the Old Testament revealing about Christian identity。
and the situation in Hong Kong? And also, if there is any story in Old Testament that can。
enlighten us as Christian in Hong Kong context? Well, it's a big question. And if I could say,。
what I'm talking about, the Old Testament is more related to Hong Kong situation now is。
the identity crisis of, say, Abraham or the Israelites when they are exiled, or even when。
they are returned to their land. Actually, the Old Testament are filled with these stories about。
how, or maybe I use Abraham as an example. We always, or Dr. Wright's lecture stress on his。
obedience, his faith. But his faith, is it his faith automatically as a very strong faith? No.。
When you read the Genesis story, Abraham, at a few chapters when he entered into, say, Egypt,。
I would say he betrayed his wife, and that is the kind of, what I'm saying, identity crisis.。
We always said that he is a stranger in the land, even in the Canaanite land, but he actually did。
not belong to there. He bought a land after his wife died, Sarah, and buried her. And the only。
land that belongs to Abraham is that land, if you know the stories. And how he developed his faith。
and obedience, and at the prime mass, maybe in Genesis 22, when he sacrificed his son,。
that's why I said the Jewish interpreter, the Asian Jewish interpreter say the ten trials of。
Abraham. That is how Judaism or Asian interpreters view the faith of Abraham.。
Although in the New Testament, in our churches, we will stress on his faith, but。
the Jewish interpretation emphasizes his struggles. And similarly, the exilic community,。
how they struggle under the invasion of other nations or empires, that's always a big story or。
big topics in that area. The exilic theology, the exilic community, and nowadays, even some。
seminaries have what they call exilic theology class, something like that. I don't know. But。
I hope you get my point. Actually, the Old Testament are full of these kind of。
stories on identity crisis, and that is much more relevant to our Hong Kong situation.。
Yeah, I would agree with Dr. Lee that the Abrahamic and the exilic match is very interesting,。
because of course, Abraham was before Israel's in the land, the exiles after they left the land.。
While they were in the land, you got the temptation to a kind of nationalism, in other words,。
czar land, keep the foreigners out, etc. Which was God's gift to them, but they abuse it.。
I agree with Abraham being a pilgrim, being that sense of not belonging there, because Hebrew。
stresses that, that he didn't, that was not his permanent home, even though it would become the。
home of his descendants, and that his faith certainly didn't always shine. So all of those。
things are true, and have lessons for us. And yet his faith, in a sense, persists, it still remains。
faith, faith which leads to obedience, even through that experience. And I think the Abrahamic。
leading to the exile means that God will always be faithful to those who are called by his name,。
to those who share that identity, so that there is always, in the Old Testament, a combination of。
memory and hope. And you see that in the book of Nehemiah Ezra, the exilic books again, how do they。
re-establish, not just by building the walls of Jerusalem, but by remembering who they are,。
by referring back to the story. We are the people of the God of, in fact they describe themselves。
as the people of the creator of the earth, you know, and yet they're a tiny little bunch of。
people stuck in a corner of the Persian empire, and yet they still see themselves as serving the。
living God of the universe. So they have this, at one level, exaggerated view of their identity.。
Guess who we are? We are the people of the king of the universe, and the king is sitting on the。
throne of Persia, you know. So there is a sense in which being identified as a man or a woman in。
Christ, as a son of the living God, is an enormous shoulder straightener, you know. And it's,。
can I share another, I don't know how much time we've got. Okay.。
When I was at All Nations Christian College, we had an Indian visiting professor called,。
his name just doesn't quickly come back to me, but he was a short man, always wearing his kurta,。
and I remember him standing there one day, and he raised his arms and he said, "I am the son,。
or I am a son of the king of the universe. Therefore, there is nothing I can lose,。
there is nothing I can gain, there is nothing I can do that is beneath me, there is nothing I,。
you know, if that is who I am, then I don't need to exalt myself, I don't need any other identity。
than that." And the reason he said that was because he was preaching from John 13, where Jesus。
washes the feet of the disciples. And John introduces that by saying, Jesus knowing where he。
had come from, knowing where he was going, knowing that the Father had delivered all things into his。
hand, and not in spite of that fact washed, but because of that, because he knew who he was,。
because he was secure in his own identity, he was able to do the job of a slave. And I think that。
when you have a sense of who you are in Christ, and once that takes precedence over everything。
else, then of course you can then value and honor and be proud of your ethnic identity, whatever it。
is. I'm pleased to be Irish, I love when the Irish rugby team win, I cheer for Ireland, so I'm glad。
to be an Irish Christian. But it pales beside the fact that I belong to Jesus, I'm in him, my life。
is hid with Christ in God, I'm part of the new creation. You know, those are the things which。
mean that's my real identity, and then everything else is part of that, because I'm also God's。
creature made in God's image. I don't know if that helps. Well, before we end this session,。
I just have one quick announcement. We have a book stand set up downstairs, and you can find。
some of Dr. Wright's books there. So, our next session is 7.30. Thank you very much.。
[Music]。
