Good morning or good evening everyone, depending on where you are. Welcome to the final day。
of CJST Josephine's Soul Culture and Ethics lecture week. I am Esther Xue, assistant professor。
of biblical studies. We are so honored to have our keynote speaker Dr. Labberton with us at the start。
of 2021 via this virtual platform. Besides his role as president of Fuller Theological Seminary,。
Dr. Labberton also serves in several significant world ministry institutions. Particularly,。
he's known as leadership with scholar leaders international and John Stott ministry,。
that is, Lim-Hamm partners. Actually, I can survive through my PhD partly because I've。
been supported spiritually and financially by these two institutions. Thanks, Dr. Labberton.。
I believe we were so inspired by your fruitful lectures in the past three days. You have。
clearly shown the cultural locations and the key factors of the crisis of American white。
evangelicalism and your reflections on them shed light on the situation of Hong Kong or Chinese。
evangelical churches. Well, after the crisis, finally we move forward to today's topic on hope.。
Please join with me to welcome Dr. Labberton to present on evangelicalism still or not yet,。
to explore how the crisis of American white evangelicalism requires the restoration is。
a soul by discovering is a source and hope. Thank you very much. I appreciate again being。
here. I have been very warmly welcomed by all of you and I'm grateful for that. I want to say。
again, my special thanks to your president, Dr. Stephen Lee, for the invitation to come and be。
part of these lectures. And I look forward, I hope to one day being able to visit CGST in person.。
Again, it's a community that I have had connection with for over 30 years. And I'm extremely。
grateful for your ministry and for your life together. I'm aware of the significant challenges。
that many churches throughout Asia and particularly in Hong Kong are facing these days. And。
therefore my own particular gratitude for your willingness to allow me to be part of your。
conversation. And I hope and pray as I have from the beginning that these days together will be。
useful to you. So the title of this final lecture, as we've heard is evangelicalism still or not yet.。
You'll notice in the English spelling of this, that there's a hyphenation between evangel and。
ecolism. And one of the arguments that I want to make is represented by that simple construct.。
That is that it's the evangel, Jesus and the kingdom of God, which is central. Ecolism names a。
movement, a body of people, a set of cultural practices and theological and spiritual and ethical。
stances that have been taken in light of the gospel. But I want to argue tonight that our hope。
is found in thinking again about the evangel and letting that be what defines who we are and how。
we live in the world. So let me begin then by saying this, if there's going to be hope, which。
I definitely believe there is, our American evangelical is going to find it by claiming。
that we are "still evangelical" or asking the question, are we yet evangelical?。
In the first construct, are we still evangelical? The claim can often be that it's like a destination。
at which some have already arrived or a trajectory, by contrast, a direction,。
but by no means yet reached. If we're claiming that we're still evangelical, it seems to me that。
we are in danger of claiming that we have arrived and that we need to hold on to the terrain that。
was defended and claimed before. But if we ask the question, are we yet evangelical?。
We're asking, is our life and our ministry, individually, personally, and institutionally,。
is it a reflection of the evangel itself? That puts us on a very, very different trajectory.。
In other words, is evangelical an identity that we claim like a badge that we could put on our chest?。
Or is evangelicalism an invitation?。
Is evangelical mission an exercise in dominion with territory claimed and a flag firmly planted?。
Or is evangelical mission a witness to the invitation to find life in the kingdom of God。
and to become part of a new community that seeks to be an embodied reflection of Jesus Christ?。
To pose these binary alternatives reflects the ways that I find aspects of American evangelicalism。
to be tragic and offensive to the gospel itself. Encroaching on the unique supremacy and authority。
of Jesus is, sadly, a deceptive duplicity that subverts the primary and the primacy and character。
of Jesus and supplants it with American culture dressed in gospel garb, gospel clothing. It can。
make the sounds of the gospel while it lives a different and divergent story. Of course, it must。
be said that no expression of the gospel is free from compromise and human distortion.。
And in Romans, or rather in Matthew 28, it is an astonishing thing that Jesus gives。
the great commission that we call the mission that defines the mission of God's people in the。
world to 11 disciples, the text points out, not the perfect number 12, but just to 11.。
And the text says that some believed and some doubted. And in Greek, it's that some believed。
and doubted. It's that the same people both believed and doubted. The church is always fewer。
numbers than we would hope. And it's always far from being the true and。
doubtless people that we might imagine. To Jesus, this band of 11 believer doubters,。
11 believer doubters, this band was the right group to be God's witnesses to nothing less。
than the hope of the world. This is all part of the shocking evangel. God's redeeming love and。
justice in Jesus Christ should ground and to find a new communion or community of disciples。
on a journey of transformation. If the question is not still evangelical, but rather yet evangelical,。
then American white evangelicalism could begin the kind of reset that only the evangel itself。
offers. Some of the primary elements of Bebbington's quadrilateral depiction of。
evangelicalism, which we discussed earlier, could contribute to the reclamation and recreation。
of American white evangelicalism. So let me begin by making several points. The first is this,。
the hope for American white evangelicalism lies in the evangel. It does not lie in evangelicalism.。
The hope of evangelicalism in America is born by the evangel, not by evangelicalism itself.。
The hope is not that the ickle-ism of evangelicalism, past or present, that is not our。
hope. Agendas, personalities, structures, assumptions, prerogatives cloud and encrust。
the evangel and attach to it like barnacles to some kind of port. The ickle-isms encase。
God's living word inside a particular set of language games regarding abortion, human sexuality,。
race, gender, mannerliness, control, and doctrine. So around the evangel, in other words,。
are these barnacles or these attachments that are claiming that they are virtually equal to the。
evangel itself. A similar set of religious codes conscripted first century Israel.。
It was into that context that Jesus announced the arrival of the kingdom of heaven or the kingdom of。
God and called unlikely disciples and generously taught and healed Jew and Gentile, righteous and。
unrighteous alike. Jesus embodied a scandal that refused the boundaries of acceptability,。
that confronted the abusive control of Sabbath keeping, that honored the good Samaritan,。
and that saw in the faith of a Roman centurion a faith that exceeded that which he had seen。
in all of Israel. In other words, Jesus subverts the practices and claims of dominion and nationalism。
and individualism and agency and fear, not least those things done in the name of God.。
All of this meant paring away what was assumed to be primary in order to actually hear what was。
primary, the good news that was and is truly good because of Jesus Christ.。
American white evangelicals need the evangel to save us from ourselves.。
We need to be delivered, rescued from evangelicalism. Upsetting the money changers。
in the temple seems like the right picture. We stand inside the faith, but we in one sense or。
another need the faith that has been practiced to be overthrown. Procuring and providing implements。
of worship, but distorting and distracting people from true worship was the problem in the temple.。
When Jesus flips the tables and calls them thieves and a den of robbers, he exposes。
what had been unassailable, and it changes everything about identity, power, money,。
control, and more. It was a religious, social, and economic system that was being dismantled。
at that moment, as well as confronted. Is it too much to believe that American white evangelicalism。
is in need of the same confrontation? The purpose is not deserved judgment,。
but instead the discovery of the good news again, and as it were for the first time.。
The evangelicals need to be converted back to the evangel. The presumptions of evangelicals。
undermines the ability to allow the good news to do its fundamental confrontation,。
conviction, repentance, lament, and reconstruction.。
Zacchaeus got this to the core, and it changed his inner life and his public life. It meant。
tangible actions of reparation in place of acts that up to that point had been all about。
self-preservation. He got the word Jesus was making, that Jesus was making all things new,。
and that meant all of him for the sake of all who are around him.。
As evangelicals, we are known for talking conversion, but we do not necessarily practice it。
ourselves. The ongoing work of letting the actual evangel be our life is not the same。
as living inside evangelical culture. Allowing Jesus Christ to confront and to break American。
evangelicalism of its distractions and its idols would be essential for its revival.。
Do we need a road to Damascus confrontation? Saul was, after all, so assured that his spiritual,。
theological, and political pedigree were in place. Dominion, nationalism, identity,。
agency, and fear were in full flight. And then, on the road to Damascus,。
the risen Christ confronts him when he is right in the middle of his own self-righteous crusade。
with a life-redefining question. "Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me?"。
Cast down and blinded for three days, but also fed and kept by God's provision.。
And then he was unexpectedly welcomed by the touch of Ananias' words.。
"Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road by which you came,。
has sent me so that you may regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit."。
What confronts and redeems Saul is the evangel. It's not evangelicalism.。
Through his blindness, through later 13 years of study and reflection, Paul lives as a mature,。
imperfect reflection of an unexpected evangel that was still in the process of making him, Paul,。
new. American white evangelicalism needs to hear and receive Jesus' confronting question.。
"Why do you make my good news look and sound so bad?" We need the evangel to rescue us.。
The next point is this, that American white evangelical。
needs the evangel to help evangelicalism die. The apostle's birthright, his personal pride,。
his persecuting dominion over Jesus' followers, his religious stature as a Pharisee of Pharisees,。
his political identity as a Roman citizen, had to become, as he says in Philippians, "dumb."。
It was this dismantling of Saul that allowed him to become Paul.。
The mark of his conversion was not in holding on to the prerogatives。
and privileges of which he had so understandably been proud while learning to profess Jesus.。
Rather, his proud religious life, his public life, had to die so the new life in Christ could be born.。
Laying down his trophies to identify, as he says, with the fellowship of Christ's sufferings。
led Paul to speak and embody an entirely different life, completely unlike the life。
that he had led before his conversion on the Damascus Road and the events that followed.。
The success of American white evangelicalism has exposed, ironically, its failure.。
By choosing to pursue the road of victory that has not led to human, ecclesial, or social thriving。
for American white evangelicalism, but too often, as we've explored, to a barren and shameful display。
of self-serving appetites and self-protective interests, this is hardly a mirror of the Lord。
that we claim to trust and follow.。
American white evangelicalism is a part of the body of Christ that cannot be remade without。
dying to significant elements of our common life. The death that is needed must confront。
its idolatrous assumptions, as we've thought, about dominion, nationalism, and individualism,。
about whiteness, and agency, and fear. These are the primary posts that define the broken。
and scandalous architecture within which American white evangelicalism has been built.。
Life in Christ cannot thrive in this prison of privilege. These things are a betrayal of an。
evangel-centric life, and they substitute human categories and privileges that are bent against。
the humble purposes of God's redemptive reign. Failure to put these things to death exposes their。
power and our false allegiance. No wonder American churches are being vacated by young adults and。
teenagers who fail to see a basic integrity of life that matches faith. Why should these young。
people not leave? When we make them the problem, that is, the young adults and teenagers,。
and fail to see that we, that is, the holders of the treasures of white evangelicalism in America,。
that we are the problem, the scale of the crisis only grows darker. We fail to see what we have to。
first admit so that we can be changed. If, for example, American white evangelicalism。
had truly repented of its deep complicity in racism and its participation in centuries of。
torturous and abusive slavery, that would utterly change what has become the nearly impossible。
conversation today about reparations, that is, paying back in some way the people who are。
descendants of slaves. This willingness would not be expected of a self-interested secular nation.。
Of course our secular nation is not interested in that. But the people of God? Would it not be。
the natural outcome of a true dying to the offense and scandal of slavery and the contemporary。
entanglements with racism and white supremacy? For at least the people of God in the 21st century。
to work on behalf of appropriate reparations for slaves' descendants. Perhaps reparations from the。
nation may not come, but for the role of American white evangelicals to raise reparations for their。
role in the defense and benefit from slavery. The promises of Zacchaea echo. "Look, Lord,。
here and now I give half of my positions to the poor, and if I cheated anybody out of anything,。
I will pay back four times the amount." Jesus said to him, "Today salvation has come to this house,。
because this man too is a son of Abraham. For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost."。
What is the point of American white evangelicals defending and arguing against the witness of。
black and brown Christians and others in the United States who testify to suffering。
because of whiteness in general and Christian whiteness in particular? Would not a spiritual。
humility empower God's people to seek the truth, to name reality, to take responsibility,。
to confess wrong, to repent, and to truly start again?。
It is hard to find this as a deep track in the history of the American white evangelical church.。
It has not profoundly and pervasively happened, and the proof lies in the ongoing legitimacy of。
the Christian movement that can so appropriately be labeled American white evangelicalism.。
That total phrase would never be needed if the American church, white evangelical church,。
had responded. The unnamed but ever-present reality of whiteness shows the willingness。
of millions of Christian people to die to their cultural and racial privilege.。
White evangelicals profess that dying leads to living, but that is true only if we live our。
dying. The next point is this, that the death of American white evangelicalism could actually be。
its birth. Revivals are typically defined by church historians as a combination of two。
simultaneous factors, evidence both of personal transformation and of social transformation.。
The need for each contributes to the necessity of the other. The admission that personal change。
is required in order to produce social change, and social change without personal change。
may be too superficial to make enduring change last. Let's hypothetically imagine that the。
portrait of American white evangelicalism that I've given you is sufficiently accurate to bring。
many to their knees, and by God's grace, to usher in a revival of a deep and transformative kind.。
Please join me in an imaginary exercise of how a story of revival in America,。
not of secular and multi-religious society that America is, but of the American white。
evangelicals themselves. The story might read like this, dateline January 2020, or even better,。
now January 2021. American white evangelicals in several cities and towns are showing themselves。
in an entirely new way. In place of their typically proud and adamant rhetoric of confidence,。
we are hearing now new voices with an entirely different tone. Rather than them pointing blame。
at others, these evangelicals are realizing the responsibilities that they have failed to practice,。
quietly at first, but now building in congregations and other gatherings.。
This community that we have heard from with such stridency is now making confession.。
People who described themselves previously as unwilling to hear and accept the experience of。
others, especially others who do not share their racial social background, are normally listening。
to their brothers and sisters of color. It's like they are actually hearing these stories。
for the first time. The report could go on perhaps like this, immigrants seeking justice,。
having had their child taken from them and caged before, are telling their stories,。
and in place of defending borders and denying compassion and care for vulnerable people,。
American white evangelicals are at the borders weeping and acknowledging the fears that have。
kept them so angry and defensive that they would want to keep other people out.。
Gatherings of white evangelicals, the report might go on, are now happening at the southern。
U.S. border, and people who fought for the wall to be built are now lamenting at the suffering。
that they have helped cause. They're gathering with Latino leaders in different parts of the。
country, and they're trying to start over in hearing the stories and grasping the injustice。
perpetrated against Latinos, too often previously unsupported by white evangelicals, but now。
supported and cared for. The report could go on, tours of the sites of lynchings against。
black men and women in America in the past are now being swamped by gatherings of white evangelicals,。
as are some of the primary sites of the Underground Railroad and of the Civil Rights。
Movement in the 1960s. Reading groups seem to be springing up everywhere in towns and cities,。
and in evangelical white churches who are listening to the profound words of。
Frederick Douglass and W.E.B. Du Bois and of Martin Luther King and of Ruby Bridges。
and of Fannie Lou Hamer and of James Baldwin and of Malcolm X and of Ta-Nehisi Coates.。
These are all African Americans in America. Publishers are reporting significant increases。
the report would go on in the sales of such writers, and the prominence of these voices。
is finally continuing to grow. It is like something that was never really seen or understood。
or trusted is now front and center in American evangelical circles.。
What's more than this is that there are scenes of home and community gatherings just for confession.。
People are admitting the ways that they've defended themselves and rejected the voices。
of others who are not like them. A related but different movement seems to be developing in。
churches that have treated women as second-class people and likewise need to be repented of.。
They're being invited by their male pastors to tell their stories with trust。
so these women's voices can now be heard and believed. And where actions are needed,。
including legal action, they will take such steps and where appropriate admit their complicity.。
A theme of those that we have met is that what is happening is personal,。
the report would go on, but also institutional. People realize that it is not just about a change。
of hearts and minds, but about changes in the structures and habits of our public lives。
that need to be changed as well. This feels revolutionary. A Black pastor and a Latino。
leader said this was deeper and broader than they have ever seen it before.。
It is not measured at this point, they said, by demonstrations, but by gatherings or services of。
confession and lament and healing led by Black, Latino, and Asian leaders of their churches.。
Stay tuned for more. Now this little imaginary exercise of mine is not a pure dream.。
Such things are happening among some American white evangelicals,。
but by too small a percentage. Only a deep work of the Spirit of God。
would make it possible for such events to develop as an organic reset of American white。
evangelicalism. I share this dream with gospel hope, but also with deep sorrow.。
I think Jesus is the one who weeps over Washington, D.C. in recent weeks, or New York, or Boston,。
Chicago, or Los Angeles, and wants to see revival. God's fulfillment will come,。
but we are in the already and not yet in between, following the one in Jesus Christ who is with us。
on a long journey, which is never complete in this life, where faith will finally become sight,。
and where we see fully and no longer through a glass darkly. We are given confidence,。
but not certainty. We are straining on at this point, but not yet arrived. We live in trust。
for what we have not yet fully seen.。
Let's do something more modest, if nonetheless profound. After more than two decades of。
ministry surrounded by the University of California, Berkeley, I can say that it is。
an icon of secularism in America. I was there serving as a pastor in Berkeley, surrounded by。
the campus, and I very seldom found people unwilling to engage with issues and debates。
of religious meaning, as long as there was room for mystery and humility,。
for an acknowledgment of unfinishedness and uncertainty. Christian faculty at the University。
of California, Berkeley, they may not have had an easy time communicating with colleagues。
and students about how to understand the world through the lens of the Bible,。
but even so, it was imaginable if two things were present. If the professor gave true evidence of。
genuine humility, and second, if they gave an evidence of an honest life, consistent with a。
complicated world in the midst of their profession of faith. If either humility or true action of。
honesty and candor were absent, the result from students would be derision. In the presence of。
both of these things, there could be debate, but there could also be respectful silence.。
I remember one time when there were huge campus demonstrations on the campus of the University。
of California, Berkeley, that were largely led by Jewish students against what they saw as。
Islamic fascism. And on the central plaza of the campus, there had been daily gatherings。
during this one week of thousands of students from Monday to Friday. On the Friday of that week,。
during the last day of demonstrations, a remarkable undergraduate, who was a white。
evangelical woman that I know, a student, who had been present to support and encourage the。
dialogue between Jews and Muslims, took the microphone in the closing moments as the sun。
was beginning to go down over the plaza. She was known by people there, and she was known as a。
Christian, but she had credibility to be able to say to the audience of Jews how grateful,。
and Muslims, how grateful she had been for the week of dialogue, as passionate as it had been.。
And then she surprised everyone by unexpectedly asking a group of Jews and Muslims a very。
straightforward question. She simply said, "Please raise your hand if you believe that Jesus was the。
son of God." Not one person in this crowd of thousands did so. She would have known that.。
And in the stillness of this moment, and with a very humble and earnest heart,。
she slowly said to them all, "I love you."。
The typically cynical editor of the student newspaper later muted something like this.。
"I saw, I saved the last word of this editorial to honor Tinley Ireland," the young woman who had。
spoken, "and for what she did on that final afternoon. I don't know or believe in her God,。
but whatever that is, and whatever love that is, I need."。
This is an authentic witness, a credible evidence of the presence, love, justice, and respect。
that the gospel, the evangel itself, is meant to produce.。
If American white evangelicals could begin a process of rebirth,。
then American white evangelicals must recover a genuinely Christian identity.。
The crisis of American white evangelicalism can be summed up in the inadequacy, if not the absence,。
of these two qualities. In place of humility, often an overreaching confidence that they and。
they alone know and define the truth. In a place of honesty, an admission of weakness and limitation,。
they proclaim and over-assert what they don't know fully, but claim to know and enact consistently.。
This is what exposes the unacceptable hypocrisy to so many. What aspects of Christian identity。
of white evangelicals seem to have lost? We might start here, that as it says in the Heidelberg。
Catechism, the answer to question one, "What is your only hope in life and in death?"。
To which the answer is, "We belong not to ourselves, but that in body and soul,。
in life and in death, we belong to our faithful Savior, Jesus Christ."。
If we read this in light of the gospel narratives, we do not then embrace a mere theological frame,。
but a new way of being in the world that challenges and reprioritizes all other。
assumptions of our social, economic, racial, ethnic, and educational identity. Our life is a。
life now "hidden in Christ," and in relationship to which we come by the power of the Spirit to。
live into this new reality that God says is new. Christ died to make this, which is necessary,。
namely our redemption and reparation, possible since we cannot redeem ourselves. This is the。
identity into which we are meant to grow as maturing disciples. When we are baptized and。
we acknowledge entering into Christ's death and resurrection, and our own dying and rising,。
it is not a mere religious ceremony, but a sacred and public sign of the beginning of a new life.。
This is a communal reality, not just an individual one, and it happens before the church。
and in some sense before the world. It is our identity, not my identity alone,。
and it is with and for God's glory, including but not defined by my desires. And it's for the。
building up of the body of Christ, including but not defined by my gifts, and the evidence of God's。
life-transforming reign in whatever context we consider, including but not bound by my own。
social location, as Paul says, or to me to live as Christ and to die as gain.。
If American white evangelicals were to live this identity and find new life, find hope,。
it means letting some things die, letting die our sense of self-definition, our sense of。
individualism, our sense that we hold primary agency, our sense that our Christian identity。
is primarily private and inward, our sense that we are followers of Jesus,。
marked with his death and resurrection, and filled with his spirit and joined to others。
who share that new life and that look like us. Our sense, in other words, that we are first white。
or American or male, rather than realizing we are first Christ's people.。
American white evangelicals would also not only need to recover a Christian identity,。
but recover a Christian sense of location. According to the Apostle Paul,。
our first and foremost location as Christian disciples is that we live, quote, "in Christ."。
This picture of our lives is both mystical and theological, but it is also more incarnational。
than those categories alone might suggest. To be in Christ is to grow up in the capacity to see。
and think and feel and engage in communion with others, to re-socialize one another in Christ.。
To be in Christ is to dwell in our divine communion of Father, Son, and Spirit.。
And this is deeply inward, but not private and not only personal.。
The need to realize our Christian social location. If American white evangelicals were to live。
in Christ, it means letting some things die, that this place is ours, that our social location。
is first and foremost where we choose to live, that we, that is white evangelicals,。
are in the top location, that our social location is neutral when it's clearly not,。
that we know the truth and the wisdom and the decisions to make, and that our only life in。
Christ knows how to learn to read our home, our town, and our nation.。
American white evangelicals, in addition to identity and location, need to recover。
Christian communion. God's people, we together here, right at this moment,。
in Hong Kong, around the Chinese world, wherever that you might be listening,。
and around the United States and throughout the whole globe, we are to be the living evidence。
that Christ died and rose. And according to Philippians 2, we do so by showing that we have。
died and risen to be part of a new humanity, a new communion of unlike people. This is how。
and why the church is to be. If American white evangelicals were to live out this, what would。
need to die? We would need to crucify the pride and presumption of our social location. We would。
need to repent and lament and reconcile and restore our past and be willing to understand。
what we need to release about the expectation of finding a church that is basically finding comfort。
instead of finding transformation. Finally, the future and hope of American white evangelicalism.。
God's repertoire of recreating anything, whether it's the Chinese church or CGST。
or Fuller Theological Seminary or American white evangelicalism, is without limit.。
God has every capacity and desire and will and purpose to recreate us. God can and God will do。
what God can and will do. Depending on the theological tradition that we are in, we have。
presuppositions about what God might do. I'm here not as the prophet to declare what God will do,。
but to suggest what seems needed. All of these comments that I've tried to share with you。
are conditioned by God's choosing to be and do what he does in Jesus Christ. Perhaps the least。
likely possible strategy for the redemption of the world that could have been imagined,。
that a Jewish first century male who incarnates nothing less than the whole of God's character。
in life, is the one by whom the whole world, in all of its difference and diversity,。
in all of its crisis and urgency, can be saved by Jesus Christ. This is not a strategy any of。
us would have devised, but it is at the very core, it is the heart and the heartbeat of the evangel。
itself. Therefore, God's true heart and truth and imagination continue to hold our goodness。
and our brokenness and any hope for our redemption, including hope for the white。
American evangelicalism we've been discussing. I do not presume God will do what seems to my。
perspective to be so needed. What I trust is that God is good, that God is near, and that God will。
complete what he has begun. So for the sake of scattering the understandable despair or resignation。
that I find in some of the crisis of God's church in the 21st century, let's remember that the。
enterprise that we are a part of is that we know as reality to be God's wondrous project.。
This mess that I've described as white American evangelicalism is also part of the body of。
Christ himself. We do not come to the table that is about human enterprise and effort,。
but to the table of God's unending love and mercy and justice. The purposes for which the world has。
been made, the goodness with which God has created, the severe brokenness that God is。
redeeming in the sacrifice of Jesus Christ, and the new creation that is initiated in the。
resurrection, the end to which God is moving all things by the presence and power of the Holy Spirit。
in the people of God and in the world. These are the solid grounds of our collective hope,。
and to that we give thanks and praise every day. In Jesus' name, amen.。
Thanks, Dr. Nebiton, for this insightful lecture. I align with you that our hope is evangel,。
the true gospel, not in the ecologies of evangelicalism's past or present.。
The future and the hope is in God's wondrous project. Thanks, Dr. Nebiton.。
For all the audience, if you have questions, you can post on our website in the live streaming page.。
Please scroll down the web page after the live streaming in Putonghua. There is a Q&A section。
where you can input your questions after you put in your name. Now, let's welcome our two respondents.。
Wenz Guang, our associate professor in practical studies, will respond first. And then, Dr. Hong。
Liang, our assistant professor in theological studies, will respond next in Mandarin, or you。
prefer in German, but not sure whether our translator can do their jobs. I'm kidding.。
Mandarin, please. Yeah, Wenz.。
Dr. Labaton's lectures went far beyond academic scholarship or sophisticated inspiration.。
We have been trusted with deep sharing that reflects an honest soul-searching that is brave。
enough to deconstruct what defines one's own identity. This week has been a call to repentance。
for all of us. Now, after four sessions of problem identification, confession,。
and forward-looking vision, I wonder how each of us has decided to respond.。
We are being reminded that the path to follow Christ cannot escape dying to ourselves.。
But we might have underestimated the gap between the talk about repentance and living it.。
Actually, the deploring condition of the evangelical witness had been laid out in。
the Cape Town Commitment during the third Lausanne Conference in the year 2010.。
And that was 10 years ago. The self-critique about complicity in corruption, racism,。
slavery, and violence had been laid out clearly a decade ago.。
The call to repentance for the Christian church had been sounded loud and clear.。
But look at where we are still standing today.。
True repentance is not something we can usher in at our own will. Before we ask whether we are。
truly evangelicals, perhaps we might need to step back and revisit whether we are truly repentant。
sinners. The gateway to life is small and the road is narrow, and only a few ever find it.。
Not many can enter, not because we cannot afford to pay the price required, but quite the opposite.。
It's because we refuse to enter freely, letting go of our own judgment of what is good。
and acceptable to God. We refuse to enter with nothing of our own, letting go of what we perceive。
as effective, authentic witnesses, or the right way to advance God's kingdom.。
This is definitely not a problem unique to white evangelicals, but anyone who is still embodied。
in flesh and functions in a cultural setting. White or non-white, male or female,。
Republicans or Democrats, blue camp or yellow camp, poor or rich, global south or global north,。
evangelicals or whatnot. How does true repentance really look like?。
I'm often drawn to learning from people with disabilities. In the healing narratives of the。
gospel, we see a rather extraordinary pattern of Jesus declaring forgiveness to those who came to。
ask for physical healing. The interesting thing is that he did not ask them to repent。
before he forgave them. That happened to the paralyzed person in the gospel of Mark chapter 2,。
and to the man who was lying next to the pole of Bethsaida in John chapter 5.。
No, our evangelical conversion formula did not show up in the Bible narratives.。
They were declared forgiven and healed. It seems that coming to Jesus for help is all that is。
required. The blind beggar on the road to Jericho just shouted, "Jesus, son of David, have mercy on。
me." He did not spend his time visioning how his journey of repentance would look like. He surely。
did not prescribe whether he should then follow Jesus on the road or whether he should then go。
back to his family and hometown to witness Christ. The penance and the way to witness is not prescribed。
by the one asking for forgiveness. We cannot copy or prescribe the repentant actions of Zacchaeus。
as a formula to demonstrate repentance. That will just turn into another form of legalism.。
What we should do in response to saving grace will become clear to us after encountering。
the one who heals and forgives. Repentance is about encountering, not about doing.。
Jesus had repeatedly praised the faith of those who came to him asking for help with full。
acknowledgement of their own disabilities. On the contrary, he reprimanded the Pharisees for not。
seeing their own blindness. Those of us who consider ourselves as being on the right side of history。
and religious tradition often walk around lame, naked, and blind without realizing it.。
And the moment we sense that something is not correct, we try to fix it ourselves.。
Perhaps like a child who sees dirty paint on her face in the mirror,。
we try too hard to get rid of the dirt ourselves with our own dirty hands.。
I'm afraid that the evangelical way of repentance is far too passive for us evangelicals.。
Just sit and wait for help? Seriously, how can we just sit there and do nothing?。
We are evangelicals after all.。
We actually feel that we are responsible to act, to decide on what is right. We like to。
manage the world for God. We like to prescribe penance for ourselves and others. And we think。
that if we manage to analyze our own paralysis and blindness correctly, and by correctly,。
of course, we mean biblically, we can then walk and see again.。
The absurdity of our condition is beyond our comprehension, just because of who we are,。
evangelicals. From a management perspective, I must say that God has chosen a group of very。
inefficient, vulnerable, and corruptible people to express the beauty and the power of the evangel.。
From a social scientific perspective, his strategy is totally out of touch。
with the reality of the human condition. But who are we to judge whether God could or could not。
use certain people? Who are we to decide that his kingdom could only be advanced by those。
who, according to our own assessments, are truly evangelical Christians?。
Sad to say that much of human suffering comes from deeply religious people feeling responsible。
for making the world a more godly place. We want to make an impact towards advancing the kingdom。
of God, which includes getting rid of the bad guys, the defiled, the hypocritical, the unjust,。
and the scandalous, and the not-so-evangelicals. We often do not realize that the more we act。
as judges and managers, the messier the world becomes. Alas, how should we then live?。
We are now living in the middle of a pandemic. Our lives are more connected to each other than。
we've ever realized. There is no more room to draw boundaries between the guilty and the not-so-guilty.。
We have heard his servant speaking to us these few days. Let's remember how the Lord instructed。
Moses to put the brown snake on a pole and offer salvation to those who look at it.。
The only way of salvation for us is to drop our own agenda for saving the day。
and to look upon the one crucified for us. Our only hope lies in the compassionate love of Christ,。
crying on our behalf to the Father to forgive us because we don't even know what we have done wrong.。
Jesus, Son of God, have mercy on us.。
[Pause]。
President Leberton, Wenz, Chairman Esther, students and friends, good morning or good evening.。
We have come to the last of the four lectures by Dr. Leberton on the history,。
current state of play, and crisis of American white evangelicals.。
Thanks to him that he has shared with us his thoughts and reflection, his struggle, as well as。
his hopes. As a last respondent, I would like to share my reflection from the perspective of eschatology.。
It was exactly 100 years ago, that was in 1921, that Karl Barth completed his manuscript on the。
second edition of his commentary on the Epistle to the Romans. The book was formally published in 1922,。
which marked the beginning of Barth's battle with the anthropocentrism of 19th-century liberal。
theology. For Barth, the eschatological nature of the kingdom of God invalidated the secular value。
system presumed in liberal theology. The final judgment and a new heaven and earth repudiated。
all secular identity and religious identity. The conflict between eschatological nature of。
the kingdom of God and the existing world became a major threat of 20th-century Protestant theology.。
Dr. Laboutin's theological critique of American white evangelicalism reminds us of this 100 years。
of history of theology. His critique also illustrates that this threat is still valid。
in the 20th century as of today. The history of theology tells us that at every critical juncture。
of historical changes, the eschatological nature of the kingdom of God will gain attention again.。
The question is, what kind of eschatology do we need today? I think。
this is a generic question involved in the specific question of the crisis of American。
white evangelicalism. I would like to share with you my three points of reflection.。
First, the history of 20th-century theology reveals that any eschatology that does not bear。
fruit in ethics is barren, and any eschatology which is completely reduced to secular ethics。
is distorted. The identity crisis of Christianity stems from the secularization,。
earthliness, and total contextualization of eschatology.。
An eschatology that has been corrupted by contextualization,。
as illustrated by Dr. Laboutin, he has critically analyzed this for us.。
Second, does it mean that we should then fall into an eschatology which totally negates the world?。
After the publication of the second edition of the Commentary on the Epistle to Romans,。
Barthes endeavored to overcome the negation of the world from an eschatological viewpoint.。
God is a God for God, despite the infinite distance between God and the world.。
We look at religions in the world.。
ISIS totally distorted the Islamic faith, which is essentially merciful in nature,。
into a terrorism that fights against the whole world and its civilization in front of the whole。
world. The core of eschatology of this terrorism is only a refraction of hatred and revenge.。
For Christianity, this is a painful lesson with deep theological meaning.。
As Paul emphasized in Romans 4.17, the God in whom Abraham believed is the one who gives life。
to the dead and caused things that are not as though they were. Eschatology。
is inseparable from creation. Hatred for the world will only push Christianity。
into the dangers of losing its very innate quality.。
Third, Dr. Labertine has portrayed an egalitarian vision for the American。
white evangelical community, which emphasizes humility and a faith-congruent life.。
He also pointed to the hope of self-renewal for the American white evangelicals in the current。
crisis. From a theological point of view, neither of the two types of eschatology。
in my aforementioned points could form the basis of this kind of transformation.。
Listening to the lecture, I gather that this lecture implicitly assumes another eschatology,。
one that emphasizes the feigned arrival of the kingdom of God in this world.。
It has neither become assimilated with the world as in my first point,。
nor in negation of the world as in my second. As an American philosopher, A.N. Whitehead,。
mentioned in his book Process and Theology, this coming is like someone slowly and in quietness。
operate by love. It is vulnerable, surrounded by risk of this world on all fronts.。
The crux of the issue is a new creation in the world. Its concern is neither to bid farewell。
to the globe or to make dramatic prophecies about the catastrophic ending of this world,。
but rather the feigned arrival of the kingdom of God in this lacerated world,。
a feigned new creation which is present amidst the lacerations of the world,。
being torn by it and also going through its cruelty and pains.。
Just as we are listening to Dr. Levitin's four lectures,。
the world is still in the middle of the systemic crisis brought by the year-long pandemic.。
The crisis of American white evangelicalism is but a small part of it.。
It would be theologically wrong to read this systemic crisis as an end-times catastrophe。
because that would put humans' existential fear for death caused by an illness。
on par with the coming of the kingdom of God. The real theological meaning of this systemic crisis。
is that it shattered the historical illusion of globalization which is marked by ever-growing。
affluence and consumption, and that it revealed the reality of the human condition。
in which we live, such as poverty in the created world, the fight for survival,。
and the threats of sickness and death which we all once thought could be totally eradicated。
by modern civilization. In this crisis, a new solidarity characterized by poverty and distress,。
competition and collaboration re-emerges. In the post-COVID-19 era,。
eschatological thinking should definitely be developed in the direction of understanding。
the feigned arrival of God's kingdom in this solidarity which is both real and cruel.。
Dr. Levitin's lectures on American white evangelicalism has certainly showed us that。
this is a possible approach. So thank you, Dr. Levitin. Thank you, everyone.。
Testing. Thanks, Wins. You emphasize the key element that repentance is about。
encountering with vulnerable or even corruptive people, not about doing, not maybe as a usual and。
traditional evangelical way. Thanks. Very inspiring and important thing, the element here.。
Thank you, Dr. Hongliang. You bring us to another level of perspective, particularly you're talking。
about eschatology and God's kingdom dimly penetrating into our present world. So I think。
yeah, your point is so important. So I was wondering whether Dr. Levitin wants to have。
any comments or response to Wins and Hongliang. Thank you. Yes, thank you very much. I appreciated。
both respondents' comments and I wish that we were sitting together in person so that we could。
have a much longer conversation. I would no doubt learn a great deal from both of you and would。
welcome that chance. I think that the words that were shared were provocative and I think that in。
many ways both of them felt to me like they were putting their finger on eschatological dimensions,。
though that was clearly the primary theme of the second presenter. It was true in many ways in both。
cases because the final end game, the telos to which all of this is directed is deeply embedded。
in what I've been trying to share and in the distance between where we are and whatever that。
telos is. So I appreciated that and I do think that it puts its finger on another aspect of。
American agency, this sense that we can push history in our own direction, that we can make。
it happen. That's one side. The other side is that I think I live in a context that is。
full of the tension between a belief that Christians are given principal responsibility。
for receiving rather than initiating and another element of Christian tradition that would say。
that Christian initiative is really quite significant and Christian responsibility。
is greater than some would want to make it in an argument that can sometimes sound too passive.。
So evangelicalism tends to straddle both of those worlds and you have some people on one side and。
some people on another. I think that partly creates why it's unclear not only what the。
eschaton is about but how you get from wherever we are to there and whose agency it is. We'll。
bring that about. It's my conviction that in the end it is about God's initiative and agency.。
It's not something that can be produced by our own human efforts. The failure to call people。
to repentance, bringing about repentance, is just further evidence that this is a mystery that is。
clearly in God's hands. I think what we're all trying to name is the reality of God's good and。
perfect intentions, which I trust will one day come to pass, though for now we live astride。
these two things. I am trying to figure out how it's possible to neither be passive in the sense。
that I don't want to be or active in the sense that I think I'm not called to be, but actively。
passive, passively active in a way that is, I think, the tension that both of our presenters。
have pointed to. Thank you, Mark. Do you two have any follow-up? Okay, thanks. As a chairperson,。
may I take this privilege to ask you a first question, Dr. Levitton? Yes. In your lecture,。
you give three recovers, recover a Christian identity, recover a Christian location, and。
recover a Christian communion. And I can see how these recover relate to the death of the several。
key elements you've discussed in your previous lectures, like dominion, nationalism, individualism,。
agency fear. Well, I'm still wondering in what way we can recover these, you know,。
three elements you were talking about, our Christian identity, our Christian communion,。
and Christian location, and that these things die.。
This is how I've understood your question. Let me make sure that I have it right.。
You're wondering how those three areas of things that need to be recovered are the antidote to。
the things that I'm saying need to die. Is that right? Yes. I'm wondering in what ways,。
you know, we're talking about we recover these three areas, and then you say, okay, in this area,。
we assume that those things die. But in what ways, in what ways we can arrive at that point。
to let these things die? Well, let me try, and then I want you to respond back. So, for example,。
if you were talking about a recovery of Christian identity, the things that I've mentioned that need。
to die are among the things that I think confuse and subvert a Christian identity. So therefore,。
what I'm proposing about what needs to be recovered has to do with clarifying who we really。
are and building it on rock and not on sand. The things that I'm naming need to die are the things。
that are like sand, which are the false foundations for our lives. Now, how do you do that? Well,。
that's a particular thing that involves any given community, a kind of location, a starting point.。
I know what it means in some white American settings, but I'm aware that I, even in that。
homogeneous category, there's a great deal of variation. And as a pastor, I know that a great。
deal of this work of spiritual transformation happens at the micro level, not at the macro。
level. But there are other things that happen collectively, as well as personally. So I would。
want to work with the congregation, for example, and have on issues of Christian identity. How do。
we really understand who we are? From what does that identity arise? Is it innate or is it a gift?。
If it's a gift, from whom and for what is the gift given to us, et cetera? Just the working out of。
some of those very important questions and issues. But I think paired with that is then the death of。
acknowledging that, for example, to say in a community like Berkeley, the words of the Heidelberg。
Catechism, that I belong not to myself, but to my faithful savior, Jesus Christ. Those are radically。
countercultural words, because the culture around the University of California would say,。
I am absolutely, utterly, finally, and eternally my own. So people are raised in that environment,。
and they claim to be Christians. Have we crucified, in the best sense, the right。
sense that I'm trying to name, at least, have we crucified a sense of independent existence。
in which the self is at the center? That's a false identity, I would argue. So let me pause there. I。
could go on, but let me pause there and see if I'm answering what you're asking, because I don't want。
to miss what you're trying to say. >> Yes, yes, thank you. I think you。
answered my question already. So actually, why I ask this question, because when I read your book。
called "The Crisis and Promise of Following Jesus Today," I really enjoy reading your book.。
And then when you discuss relocating, reorienting, refocus, and talking about the way of beloved,。
the way of wisdom, and the way of suffering, I'm thinking maybe that relates to your question,。
when you're discussing here about recovery. So yeah, but you also, yeah, yeah, pointing to that。
point just before. So yeah. >> Yes. Yes, thank you very much.。
>> Thank you. If you two have further follow-up. >> In response to your question about how。
does that happen? How do we recover and then in the process die? I echo with Dr. Leberton on the。
need to reexamine whether we're living out the gospel or living out our own social location.。
And I think part of the way to maybe from another perspective looking at this issue is that, well,。
we all know that we cannot escape ourselves. That is the difficulty here. But maybe we can。
look at the scenario from a very different perspective, is maybe we can live out the gospel。
through our social dislocation. And I would maybe suggest that this is one way of rediscovering our。
Christian social location. Let me expand a little bit more. Like social dislocation,。
I mean things that marginalize us. We can be marginalized and discriminated by a lot of things,。
like say our gender, our race, or our social status. And I think that everyone has his or。
own domains of social dislocation. No matter how white or how male or how powerful and dominant。
you are, it may be your age, your health condition, or your wealth that make you feel like。
you are discriminated or marginalized at some point. And now, what does living out the gospel。
in our social dislocation mean? I would like to share a bit from my personal experience, if I may.。
In my case, the most obvious domains of my social dislocation are, first, I'm being a woman in a。
male-dominated society, and secondly, being married but do not have children in an Asian culture.。
So in Hong Kong, the marginalization and discrimination are not so obvious,。
but it became a main theme of my encounter with people during the six years when I was working。
in Kabul, Afghanistan, teaching physical therapists there. The work was supported by a Christian NGO.。
I often thought my social dislocation, that is my femaleness, my barrenness, is an obstacle to my。
ministry. I mean, how do people look at you and think that God is someone who blesses, you know,。
his followers? But quite the opposite, it has become the broken vessel that carries the treasure。
that shines through. In my case, that did not work out because there were people who advocated for my。
okayness, not that. But it began with my own conversion, first. It became clear that from。
encountering God who confirms my blessedness, even though I'm seen as a lesser human being。
because I'm a woman, or a lesser than whole woman because I do not have children. So the conversion。
starts from myself, you know, the conversion to be able to stand as the blessed and redeemed person。
in the confrontation and hostility of my culture. It takes time, it takes a lot of dialogue and。
wrestling with God, but it does not happen at will. The assurance and blessedness for me is the。
evangel in my social dislocation. And to my surprise, people around me are attracted by how。
my faith affirms my personhood and empowers me to be at peace with my social dislocation.。
And mind you, people and environment did not suddenly become very warm and, you know, very。
embracing. It's still very violent and discriminating. And yet, living out this。
peace and blessedness among such a culture has connected me to people in their own fear and hurt.。
And this has opened a lot of open doors of connection in our dislocations in various senses.。
And to journey along this dislocation in opening to the gospel that reassures us.。
So this is something that we might want to look at, you know, re-examine our ways of mission.。
Because a lot of times the way, you know, the people who need love and healing does not get。
it when people coming as Christians are imposing things like wars and sanctions on their own。
motherland. So this is something I'd like to share. May I respond to that? Sure, sure, please.。
I just want to say first, just a very personal expression of gratitude and thank you for sharing。
what you've just done for a couple of reasons. First, that my wife and I also have been unable to。
biologically have children. We have in years past adopted two children who are have been our。
sons since they were born. But the journey of not having children physically and the way that that。
affected us together as well as individually and then the way that it affected us in relationship。
to others was a very, very important part of our own marital formation. And I so respect and。
treasure what you've just said about understanding how to live out our dislocation as an act of。
discipleship and a learning of how to understand ourselves and see our social location。
and dislocation as in some sense a mercy or at least that it holds an avenue of being a mercy。
to us and perhaps to other people. It certainly has been the case likewise for us that that period。
which went on for 10 years and really for us has gone on always even though we were fortunate in。
our case to be able to adopt two newborn children over time. The sense that we were still。
a family that had been unable to conceive a child biologically was a very significant thing that I。
think has been a wound that God has used profoundly in our own lives and I think。
used very significantly in the lives of others. So that particular story means a great deal to me。
and I think your way of handling it is such a marvelous and encouraging inspiration to me。
because it's really in a way what I've been trying to argue for. I think that is what I mean by the。
faint coming of the kingdom, right? It's in that funny intersection of both hope and。
lack of resolution that we live our lives. I think it's part of what exilic life is meant to be and。
I think in a country like the United States that has tended to see itself as a promised land,。
falsely that's another story, but to see itself in that way, well what it's really needed and what。
it certainly needs now is for the church to see itself as a church in exile and to embrace that。
social dislocation is actually very hopeful to me. But if we are actually exiles but we want to keep。
demanding a return to the promised land which is a false hope, then we're really in a difficult place。
and I think it's unclear which direction the White Evangelical Church will go.。
Thank you again. Thank you for your feedback and I think a lot of times we can blame it on。
prosperity gospel or anything but I think in especially in Asian culture, honor and shame。
culture, it's very hard for even like Christians to take pride in whatever situation that God has。
put them in. For example, if you are a church leader in Hong Kong and if you experience or a。
family member experience mental illness or if there is something going wrong with your kids or。
in your marriage, I think it's very hard to talk about it or even be transparent about how you go。
through such thick situations in life with the gospel, with the grace of God. I think that's。
something we need to not to take away our social location but to really look at it all sides。
including our dislocation in it. Yes, thank you so much. Yeah, same thanks for all of you. I mean。
this question is related to what we just talked about like the location is in the Christian of。
the location, the nationality, the culture, are we decontextualizing the gospel in culture。
or we'd rather to seek a transformation of culture and redemption of our practice?。
I think the answer is yes. I think it has to be all of that, right? I mean part of it is about。
us being transformed but part of it is about the agency which is I think the only way of。
understanding why Jesus would use words like you are the light of the world, you are the salt of。
the earth. Clearly we are meant to be affective agents in the world in some sort of way and to。
bring to the world in the case of light a world of darkness, to bring to a world of decay salt。
that restrains that decay. So I think it's both things. I think there has to be a personal work。
of transformation in our social location and not denying our social location but allowing ourselves。
to bring our whole social location to the God who sees us and has created us and wants to redeem us。
but also a God who then simultaneously always wants to use us. This is why it's always a。
mystery to me that in the economy of God we are both the focus of God's work even while we are。
also the workers. We're both things always. We are the work and we are the workers and it's that。
dual dynamic that we live every day. I hope that addresses the question.。
Yes, yes.。
So let me respond from a theological point of view.。
I very much like the point made by Dr. Laboutin in his lecture that。
the goodness in creation.。
Why do I raise this point?。
If we talk about a historical crisis, but there are many many reasons behind it.。
And if we look at crisis of American white evangelicalism, it is a component part of the。
recent history of theology, especially Protestant theology as a characteristic。
that from the time of Reformation is very quickly relinquished its rights in explaining nature.。
In modern Protestant theology, representative icon Bonhoeffer,。
in his anthropology manuscript in 1940s, he pointedly talked about。
how the whole Protestant theology has since Reformation very quickly relinquished the。
Catholic tradition of distinguishing between grace and nature. We don't have the power to。
talk about nature from the Protestant theology, especially since the fallen world,。
created, the values of the created are not talked about.。
In American evangelicalism, in the development of this theology, it demonstrates clearly。
this point. So, since 19th century theology, until now, whenever we talk about eschatology,。
the post-millennium point of view, turned slowly to the pessimistic anti-millenniumism.。
Between the two, are there fundamental differences? To me, there is no difference,。
because both of them do not have the ability to make any theological hermeneutics of the。
current situation. From the world view of natural sciences, or from the world interpretation from。
the Catholic tradition, for those two, they are absent in Protestant theology.。
So, we need a parallel narrative for this. I think this is a very big weakness.。
And Dr. Levitin, in your lectures, when you talked about the goodness of creation,。
this should become a new angle of study in Protestant theology, to look at this world,。
and to interpret a starting point, very important. From this point of view,。
what we see today, as the COVID-19 situation, the systemic crisis that they created,。
from a theological point of view, it's not totally negative, or just a negative of the event.。
It can be something with very positive value, because it let us see that the modern civilization,。
and what it tried to create, in terms of affluence and consumption as a major。
value, has totally collapsed, and has corrupted our human nature.。
It's poverty and fear. I think this is a very good resource for theological reflection.。
Thank you very much, Dr. Levitin. >> Yes, I'd like to again respond.。
That's a very, very helpful statement. Thank you so much for that. And let me illustrate。
what the tension is, I think, that would, I think, go in the same direction as your observations.。
It's worth noting that one of the major influences on American white evangelicalism is the theological。
movement known as dispensationalism. Dispensationalism, as many of you might know,。
is an American theological conviction in which the material world is fundamentally。
of little, if any, real significance. It's all about a long trajectory of an eschatological。
vision that's immaterial. And in that sense, an eschatology that would suggest that the telos is。
the world, the material world will "burn up," and that the eternal world will be, in the best sense,。
only a resurrected material reality and bear little, if any, resemblance to the reality that。
we have today. And so, therefore, when a pandemic like this comes along and the reaction has been。
against science, it's not just against science, it's against material existence and its importance。
and an over-crediting of spiritual reality and a dramatically under-crediting of the meaning。
of material life, and therefore an under-appreciation and a rejection of science,。
because it's literally giving itself to something that will not matter in the end.。
And it's this tragic stranglehold that dispensationalism still has on a lot of。
American Protestantism and American evangelicalism in particular. And I think it's consonant with。
what was just shared and with the way that, in a way, that avoidance of seeing goodness,。
actual goodness, true, even eternal goodness, I'll put it that way to make the point,。
an eternal goodness to material reality that will be made new, but not expunged, not burned down,。
but brought to its fulfillment. And I think that that's a very, very important theme. And I so。
appreciate what you've just shared. I hope that if you want to interact with what I've just said,。
I would love to hear your comments back. >> I totally agree with that. The way we see。
how God's kingdom will reveal our theology would actually influence a lot on how we interact with。
the world. And previously I mentioned about sanction and war. I must take the chance to。
make a note about this. I think a lot of foreign policies in the US, based on this theology of how,。
you know, what is good and evil and how to bring about God's kingdom's coming,。
these foreign policies were done in the name of justice and to protect people from regimes that。
are seen as evil and to bring about God's eschaton. I think a lot of times war and/or。
sanction are imposed as acts of justice and being on the same side of God. But having lived in and。
visited countries under these policies, I must say that I'm angered and shamed by the lack of。
awareness of what is actually happening on the ground. After Afghanistan, I have visited briefly。
the DPRK and the Palestinian refugee camp in Lebanon. I must say that the American Christianity。
has a lot to answer to as far as the unjust suffering of ordinary people there, who,。
especially vulnerable people like children, women, or people with disabilities.。
But on the other side, that's not the end of hope. We do not wait for us to correct ourselves。
because before anything good can happen. I witness that God is still doing work in his own ways.。
If we are open to the sovereignty of God to choose who he works through, for example, in the hospital。
in the Palestinian refugee camp in Lebanon, they are getting a lot of help from the Japanese Red。
Cross. Not a Christian organization, but a lot of Christ-likeness shines through the medical。
personnel there. And on top of that, several Palestinian Muslim women are making efforts to。
network help from various resources across religious and racial boundaries. And that brought。
us to what Dr. Hong had mentioned, that maybe our own stream of spirituality and theology is not。
able to see our own blind spots. And I think we do need a lot of dialogue ecumenically and also。
interfaith to actually see a fuller picture of who God is and what we are supposed to be。
and how we should live and collaborate with each other.。
I agree with that very much. Thank you so much for telling that, using those examples. And I。
would say the same thing is true in so many different directions. And on a more localized。
level, it was what I was meaning yesterday about the examples of the global church conference。
and of the small groups that I was describing that are trying to bring unlike people together。
so that we share what we call in our own location wisdom, but maybe folly if we bring it into。
conversation with others whose perspective and experience is really so different from ourselves.。
So I applaud the examples and I share with you from another part of the world,。
horror at much of what the American government as well as the American church does. Even while。
I also say I'm grateful for various things that happen sometimes because of and often despite。
what we are. Thank you for all the discussions. That is quite fruitful. So from Holy Land's。
big picture of eschatology and then once, yeah, reflection on her personal experience. And now I。
want to back to this question I think relates somehow to what we discussed. Here's the question,。
could it be that the whole paradigm of Christianity needs to be examined or else we would just be。
abandoning evangelicalism only to pick up another ecologism? How do you see the issue of evangelicalism。
has to do with the general perception of the church of God as the powerful and move mover,。
Christ is the victor and the spirit as a power for us to use? Okay, you have any comment on?。
That's an enormous question. Well, let me just say briefly a few things without in any way。
suggesting I'm giving an adequate answer to that question. So yes, it is absolutely not only。
possible, it seems almost predictable that if we move from one tribe to another, we just are。
substituting tribes. We're not necessarily being transformed. So I would say that we have to move。
with caution and wisdom and without any naivete about the fact that the newness that the New。
Testament describes is a newness of death and resurrection. So what we're talking about is。
death and resurrection. We're not talking about finding a better brand. That's a completely。
different process and much more superficial. I think the question is, and I think this is where。
two respondents of each in their own way made this point, there's really a genuine deep spiritual。
work that has to go on in us to make us Christ-like. Literally, it required the death。
and resurrection of Jesus to make it possible. And if that's the case, then let's not be the。
slightest bit superficial or silly about the kind of degree of change that is needed in our lives.。
If it was something that could be easily manipulated by just changing parties,。
then clearly it would not be what Jesus is actually talking about.。
So let me start there. Let me also say that we want to move with hope, but with caution. In some。
ways, it's based on the hermeneutics that we might call at the end of 1 Corinthians 13. I don't know。
if this is true in China, but often that chapter, 1 Corinthians 13, is imprisoned, I'll say, in。
wedding services. And it's not a text that's necessarily read or preached on very much。
otherwise. But if we come to the end of that text, the Apostle Paul, the most adamant voice。
in the New Testament, is the voice that says, "We see, but we see through a glass darkly."。
And I want to hermeneutically embrace that and say, as I go forward as a Christian disciple,。
as a part of a church community, as the leader of a theological institution,。
I want to advocate an epistemology and a hermeneutics that's based on the possibility。
of seeing, but seeing through a glass darkly. And how we hold those two things in tension。
will say a great deal about how we understand ourselves and the God that we are claiming。
has been made known in Jesus Christ. Some, and I would argue fundamentalism is particularly guilty。
of this, of saying that the lens is completely transparent, that we can see utterly and clearly.。
But skeptics and many inside the church, and certainly many outside the church, would say,。
"There's nothing there, or there's no capacity for sight." And I think to that, Paul would say,。
"No, there is something there, and there is something that can be seen."。
But Paul would be the one that would say to the fundamentalists, "But it's not transparent."。
So what we've been talking about here needs to be held with that double combination。
and an acknowledgement that as we go forward, we're always looking to see as much as by God's。
grace we might come to see and know, but by God's grace, not more than we can see and know,。
leaving us utterly dependent on what is yet to be made known, what is yet to be done,。
what's yet to be accomplished in us and/or through us or together with us.。
I wonder if anyone of either of the respondents would want to engage in that. That's just a tiny。
thumbnail of what I think that question requires.。
I agree that the need for the courage to be vulnerable, it's very much an important。
aspect that we need to actually look at why we want to change paradigm, why we want to be。
better. Is it because we want to have a better rating, more followers, be on the right side,。
or what's our purpose of even changing? Sometimes the action, the changing action is good, but I。
think we've read in the Bible that God does not actually really just look at the actions.。
He surprises with things that he looks at. His measuring tape is often not our own.。
So I think the vulnerability and utter whatever we've done that's the best we can do,。
and then to come to Christ with a confession that we are useless and sinful servants.。
I think that's what I want to add in that because there's a Chinese saying that。
"Sing zhe wei wong, bai zhe wei kou." The winner is king, the loser is outlaw.。
So we always want to be on the winning side, not literally wanting more money or fame, but。
actually at least on the winning side of the right, correct theology, the correct kind of evangelism.。
So is it because we want to rule and we want more followers, or is it really because we。
want to be vulnerable in front of the gospel of Christ?。
Yes, yes. Thank you.。
That's true. And I think time flies, so we may still have several questions, so we'll see.。
And the other question is about like this. Among evangelicals, there are some strange beliefs.。
For example, COVID-19 is a hoax. Requirement of wearing a face mask is a violation of freedom.。
Climate change is a hoax. Strict gun control cannot prevent mass shootings, etc.。
Can you explain how these ideas are developed among evangelicals? How are these ideas related。
to whiteness and maleness, if there is any relationship?。
Well, the way that they relate to white evangelicalism is that, as I mentioned a few。
moments ago, that there is this pervasive anti-materialist thread that is a very important。
part of white evangelicalism. And it has to do with a rejection then of science, of facts,。
of so-called material truth. So this is a long history. You could trace it, at the very least,。
from the time of the Enlightenment, but you could also, in an American context, you could also trace。
it back to what's called the Scopes Trial of the 1920s. And that was between fundamentalists and。
modernists. And it was in that debate and in the implications of things that happened around that,。
that a great number of American fundamentalists now sometimes are included, predominantly included,。
in the name evangelical, that science was rejected and still is often rejected.。
So the rejection of the analysis of the disease, the rejection of the analysis of the prevention,。
or the partial prevention, as in masks, or the prevention of the legitimacy of a vaccine,。
are all part of one narrative that's basically grounded in a sense of the fact that scientists。
and secular scientists are doing evil in the world, that science is not the main concern,。
it's really spirituality. It's what the Spirit of God is going to do. And that by letting yourself。
be invaded by an external force, as in overreaching government, or overreaching medicine,。
is itself to give way to the falsehood of things that are destructive and subversive to an American,。
and in particular, a Christian identity. So the fact that this is so pervasive in the United States,。
that 70 million people, more than 70 million people, still voted for Donald Trump,。
the chief propagator of such lies and distortions, is an enormous tragedy.。
On the other hand, it's no surprise, because he saw that that point of view was attractive to many,。
many right-wing Christian people in the United States, and it was his single largest group of。
supporters, which is why the tragedy that we're talking about of the crisis of American white。
evangelicalism is intertwined with such truly tragic histories and long arguments that have to。
be understood and responded to, and for which human effort is clearly inadequate.。
Thank you for your response. Yeah, the other question is like about repentance,。
maybe. The repentance that Mark advocates to begin at the local congregations. However,。
most church leaders are more interested in growing the congregations than repenting social。
sins. How do we start changing in our congregations?。
Well, if we go back to the example of Jesus, I do think it's quite profound that, of course,。
it was right at the moment that Peter confessed Jesus to be the Christ that he also said that he。
was facing turning his face toward Jerusalem. Peter intervenes and says, no, that's not at all。
what you should do. And Jesus uses the strongest and most critical words that I think he uses。
almost anywhere except toward the Pharisees, perhaps, when he says, get behind me, Satan,。
to Peter. Amazing declaration. And then he goes on to say, if you follow me,。
you must take up your cross and do so. Now, this has never been popular teaching throughout the。
whole of Christian history. There have been renewal movements upon renewal movements that。
have gone back to these seminal elements of the gospel to say, are we trying to live a Christian。
faith without dying? And a lot of the popularity of mega church growth and church growth as a goal。
itself is really built on the assumption that we can offer a dying free Christianity as though。
Jesus dies, but we don't ever die. My reading of the New Testament, not least the gospels,。
but also of Paul, is that Jesus died decisively for us, but that we enter into that death。
by our willingness to actually take responsibility for ourselves and to put ourselves in a position。
of identification with Jesus in such a way that we lay down our prerogatives, that we lay down。
our power, that we lay down our stature, our influence, etc. Now, the crisis, of course,。
of church growth is nobody grows a church by putting up outside its doors a sign that says,。
"Come and die." That's not the theme. Bonhoeffer, of course, makes this point very, very clearly.。
And I think it still is a haunting thing that commitment to church growth often has been。
unwilling to confront. We assume that the goal is just getting more people to come to church.。
That's not a bad goal if what we're offering them is actually the gospel on the other end.。
If what we're really offering them is a compromised and failed gospel that really doesn't take。
our circumstances seriously, then I think we've really offered people something other than the。
gospel itself. And that's a tragedy. And I think that does explain in part American white。
evangelicalism. You may or may not know this. It may or may not be true in your churches, but。
there are many, many churches in America now that would consider themselves evangelical churches。
that would never offer a prayer of confession, for example. It just doesn't happen. It's not。
in the communal worship of the church. It might happen at a moment of conversion when a person。
perhaps is being invited to come forward or to make a confession of faith. But the emphasis。
is often on the confession of faith, not a call or an act of repentance, as we were hearing about。
earlier. It's this repentance that the church wants to avoid and then to build a church that。
doesn't repent. Well, that's like trying to build America by a president who never confesses having。
done wrong. So it's an impossibility. It's just the most ordinary possibility, let alone a。
theological impossibility. >> Perhaps we can look at it like actually the church can be the mission。
field. And we have overrated the institutional church as the only venue that God's church exists.。
But having said that, I think the way to bring repentance, I often say that how can people admit。
that they're wrong? And very often it's in front of people who really love them, who are willing。
to suffer the consequence of their own sins and be able to bear it and forgive them. At least that's。
my experience. So I think that it's very easy to kind of say that, to look at other people's。
thoughts. And I think we need each other to tell us where our blind spots are and to love us enough。
to embrace us even though we're so horrific. >> Yeah. And that's where the church community。
can be such a gift, right? If you can create an environment where people are prepared to be honest。
in that way, it will require that they are also loving in a way that can actually foster that。
kind of honesty of confession. And many churches are not like that. I was on a Zoom call today。
with several people who were describing having grown up in a very brutal kind of Christianity,。
which was very measured about its demands and very sparse in its expressions of love. And it did so。
in the name of saying it was being a more faithful and righteous church. But for the people that I。
was talking to, it was a deeply wounding experience, which for many years left them。
feeling that they couldn't know God because they could never be good enough. And this was all inside。
a church that was claiming that they were proclaiming the gospel of God's love. But the。
love and the judgment were so skewed that it was impossible. Later, they came to that discovery.。
But I'm just underscoring, I think, what I understood you to say. I believe that the love。
that has to surround us, that is God's love and is meant also to be our love, can make an enormous。
difference in how the good news is heard. Thanks. But due to our time limitation, I think our Q&A。
session has to be ended here. Sorry that some good questions we don't have time to address.。
Receive my apologies. So yeah, this morning or evening is very fruitful and stimulating for us。
Thank you so much, Dr. Labberton, for giving us such a unique lecture week. I was so enjoy your。
lectures. Actually, I really like your tone, your ways of interactions, very pastoral,。
caring, and humble. Very impressive. Many thanks, Dr. Labberton. Thank you to all our respondents。
in these four days. Your response and comments helped us to gain more from the lectures. Thank。
you to all the translators' hard work and all our CGST staff who helped to make this event happen。
and go well. Thank you for your participation wherever in the overseas or in Hong Kong.。
And thank you for your active involving in asking questions, giving comments, which we ought to leave。
out in the invention, as Dr. Labberton has stated in his lectures. At the end of our 2021 Josephine。
Soul Culture and Ethics lecture, may I ask our senior pastor Mark to pray to complete our annual。
lecture week. I would be honored to do so. Let me briefly just say again how grateful I am for。
the chance to have participated in these lectures. I pray for the church in Hong Kong, and I pray for。
the church in the world that is the Chinese church throughout the world for its grace and strength。
and for its influence to be the aroma of this amazing, mysterious, and clear gospel。
that is in Jesus Christ. Let's pray together. Oh God, it is in our weakness that we come to you。
now at the end of this time to just again offer ourselves, offer one another, offer the churches。
and congregations that we're a part of, offer the church of Jesus Christ in Hong Kong, throughout。
the Asian world, throughout the world, and we offer likewise the white evangelical church in America。
to you. You are the one who reigns in mercy and justice. You're the God who reigns in love and。
kindness, the God who understands us thoroughly in our weakness, and yet you are also the one who by。
the power of your spirit can redeem, can recreate, can literally remake us to be people who reflect。
more and more of the reality of your life in the world, individually and collectively. So。
we cry out to you for mercy. We give thanks for your unending faithfulness. For you alone, oh God,。
are our hope. In the name of Jesus Christ, Father, Son, and Spirit, Amen. Amen.。
Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Yeah, it's nice. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Thank you. Thank you.。
[Music]。
