(soft piano music)。
- Ladies and gentlemen,。
Christian brothers and sisters,。
warmest greetings in our Lord Jesus Christ to you,。
no matter where you are now geographically located.。
Welcome to join us。
at our China Graduate School of Theology,。
Josephine So Culture and Ethics Lecture Week.。
My name is Simon Cheung, your host this morning.。
Let me first say a few words about this lecture series.。
Instituted in 1985,。
this biannual lecture series。
is for commemorating Josephine So,。
the pioneering Christian thinker and leader here in Hong Kong。
after her untimely death in 1982.。
In the past, this lecture series has covered。
a broad swath of topics,。
ranging from a contemporary reading。
of Augustine's "The City of God"。
to pressing cultural and ethical issues。
concerning creation care, marketplace theology,。
or contextualizing Christian faith。
in the current Chinese context.。
This year, our lecture series is set to take a look,。
and I may add, a scrutinizing and critical look。
into the American white evangelicalism。
and the crisis it faces today.。
And our distinguished speaker is Reverend Dr. Mark Levitin,。
the president of Fuller Theological Seminary in the US.。
Dr. Levitin, it's great to have you here virtually with us.。
Would you like to say hi to our audience here?。
- Thank you so much for this invitation.。
- Thank you, Dr. Levitin.。
And before we hear your first lecture today,。
may I first say a few words to introduce you。
to our general audience?。
Dr. Levitin is a prolific writer,。
and his work appears in various kinds of platforms,。
with the Lord Jesus Christ as a center of passion,。
as Dr. Levitin once expressed in an interview.。
His work is aimed to wake people up。
as to what kind of life and practice。
they are called into by their Savior and by the Lord.。
Just by reading the evocative titles of his books。
like "The Dangerous Act of Worship"。
and "The Dangerous Act of Loving Your Neighbor,"。
his readers will immediately get the feel。
that the complacent and insipid understanding。
of our faith falls far short of the true calling。
to be the followers of Jesus.。
Out of a deep conviction in the practice of genuine dialogue,。
Dr. Levitin has been hosting as the president of FOLA,。
a forum called Conversing,。
in which he will speak with a wide spectrum of leaders,。
I quote, "on issues at the intersection。
of theology and culture," end quote.。
This dialogue is meant, I quote again,。
"to evoke both the power of conversation。
and the turbulence of our times," end quote.。
So one of his latest additions features his interview。
with a Christian writer and activist。
who champions racial justice。
and seeks to expose the Christian,。
especially white Christians' complicity。
in racism in the US.。
Today, Dr. Levitin will begin his reflection。
of the issue at hand with the title,。
"The Start, the Complicity, the Tsunami, and Today,。
the Birth, Original Scene, Development, Growth,。
Consumption, and Betrayal。
of American White Evangelicalism."。
Without further ado, let's welcome Dr. Levitin.。
- Thank you very, very much.。
It's a great joy and privilege to be here.。
Presently distinguished faculty, students, and guests,。
it's a great honor for me to be participating。
in these lectures in 2021.。
We had, of course, all hoped that the lectures。
would be delivered in person,。
but 2020 and the COVID pandemic。
regrettably made that impossible.。
I hope that the Canadian philosopher, Marshall McLuhan,。
is wrong, that this medium will not be the message,。
and that you will remember far more。
about what I'm trying to say。
than the medium by which I will be saying it.。
I bring all of you very warm greetings。
from Fuller Theological Seminary,。
especially from our board of trustees and faculty,。
and pray for you, for the church,。
and for the world of which we are a part。
and for which we serve as we do.。
Before formally starting, let's let first things be first.。
In Romans 8, the Apostle Paul traces。
the pervasive, unfinished, and agonizing groans of God,。
the church, and creation itself.。
In these lectures, there will be cause for joy,。
but there will also be evidences of groaning,。
reasons for arguing, causes for crying,。
repenting, and lamenting.。
Yet in the face of all that is wrong and incomplete,。
let us first hear the Apostle Paul's words。
toward the end of that well-known chapter.。
He writes, "What then are we to say to these things?。
"If God is for us, who can be against us?。
"He who did not spare his own son,。
"but gave him up for us all,。
"how will he not also with him。
"graciously give us all things?。
"In all these things, we are more than conquerors。
"through him who loved us.。
"For I am sure that neither death, nor life,。
"nor angels, nor rulers,。
"nor things present, nor things to come,。
"nor power, nor height, nor depth,。
"nor anything else in all creation。
"will be able to separate us。
"from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord."。
I offer these lectures as those with hope,。
a hope that is gratefully far beyond ourselves。
for these days.。
In the name of the Father, and the Son,。
and the Holy Spirit, amen.。
Shall we pray together?。
Oh God, how thankful we are for the privilege and gift。
of gathering in this way.。
We are in places throughout parts of Asia,。
and perhaps around the world,。
aware of your presence and faithfulness,。
which is our only hope, the only hope of the church,。
and the only and final hope of the world.。
May our days together this week。
be ones that you will bless,。
that our conversation and my reflections。
will combine in useful ways,。
that our understanding of your will。
and the future of our nation。
and the future to which you call us。
will be clearer and that our faithfulness will grow.。
We ask it to your glory in the name of Jesus, amen.。
To speak about the crisis of American white evangelicalism。
is to speak about a crisis within just part。
of the body of Christ and its mission in the world.。
As I hope and know you will see,。
I have no difficulty trying to honestly describe。
my understanding of the situation,。
but in doing so, I want to remind myself and you。
that I am after all talking about part。
of our Lord's beloved bride.。
The journey of God with God's people from Abraham to today。
has been endlessly fraught with crises,。
and still our ever loving and persisting good shepherd。
does not let us go.。
I believe in the legitimacy and in fact,。
the necessity of self critique,。
while conscious that that can easily and glibly fall prey。
to its own arrogance and presumption.。
So I want genuinely to repent even in advance。
and commit to you that I will try to be both candid。
and loving, honest and fair.。
The topic is large enough and complex enough。
to necessarily state that I'm not addressing。
all dimensions of evangelicalism of course,。
and certainly not addressing the related。
but very different realities of global evangelicalism.。
Nor would I pretend to adequately trace therefore。
the impact and importance of American white evangelicalism。
on the China Graduate School of Theology。
or the Chinese church.。
Instead, I will offer you my thoughts。
about American white evangelicalism。
and ask during our question and answer sessions。
for your partnership as brothers and sisters in Christ,。
with whom the scriptures call us to both rejoice。
with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep.。
Your reflections, critiques and perhaps even weeping。
are truly valuable to me.。
And I look forward to hearing your voices。
and perspectives as well.。
We are in one communion in Christ.。
Presently encouraged me to deliver lectures。
in a way that would include my own personal experience。
and not only to offer them through the lens。
of a merely academic set of categories or ideas.。
I was grateful for this and pleased。
since it allows me to do in public。
what we all know to be true in private,。
namely that almost all scholarship。
is also narrative or narratival.。
That is our commitments and interests。
are inevitably oriented by。
and reflective of our own stories.。
A few examples.。
I point to Dr. Francis Collins,。
the director in the United States。
of the National Institutes of Health in Washington, DC。
and the leader of the Human Genome Project,。
which worked out the first complete sequencing of human DNA。
forever changing the way human biological science。
would proceed and affecting the lives of people everywhere.。
It was he who said that the underlying conviction。
of God's creative and recreative love。
and salvation in Jesus Christ is the daily rock。
on which he seeks to do the very best science。
and public health that he can provide.。
Dr. Collins can distinguish science from faith,。
but his commitment to science and to the evangel。
are together part and parcel of one life and one project.。
Dr. Martin Luther King,。
the great American civil rights leader。
was not incidentally black.。
It was his blackness that informed his experience。
and his theology and also motivated his rhetoric。
and his analysis of the past and present.。
His personal story made him more capable, not less,。
of perceiving reality clearly。
in his study of American racial history.。
His embeddedness in his story。
and in the larger black narrative in the United States,。
including his demonstrations。
in some of the great marches and movements of the '60s。
gave him clearer vision, not less,。
that in a multiracial nation,。
race is never a neutral factor.。
Any claim of neutrality about race in America。
is a warning sign that misunderstanding is already at hand.。
Jesus was not incidentally a first century Jewish man.。
The very character of his divine revelation。
and of the love and healing, teaching and sacrifice,。
death and resurrection are simultaneously objective。
and subjective realities for him and for us.。
This is what we affirm about the incarnation,。
the universal particularity of God.。
Postmodernism has succeeded in driving us。
to face the inescapable particularity of life.。
In the case of Christian faith,。
the particular, however, is the lens by which we can see,。
know and encounter the God of the universe.。
This is what we hold together.。
Just a moment.。
Excuse me.。
(pages rustling)。
All of this is to say that when President Lee。
invited me to speak personally。
on the subject of American white evangelicalism,。
he was allowing me to express in public。
what otherwise is privately and inescapably present.。
I'm being allowed through his invitation。
to pixelate the story with an acknowledgement。
of the ways my own experience has ordered the arrangement。
and colors and shades of my telling。
of the American evangelical story.。
On a personal level, I come to you to this topic。
first and foremost, simply as a brother in Christ,。
seeking as you do to hear and respond。
to what the Holy Spirit may want to say to us。
in these sessions together.。
The primary context out of which I speak。
is what we hold in common, our life in Christ.。
This defining context of God's loving redemption。
holds any and all details about me, my gifts and weaknesses,。
my sins and sorrows, my hopes and longings,。
my social location, my birth and my new social location。
as part of God's one new humanity.。
The same of course is true for you.。
We find our life's principal location together。
in this one new communion, made possible and active。
as we are held in the love of the Father, Son and Spirit.。
In this common life, we also bring。
our distinct similarities and differences.。
I am a tall, white, educated American。
born and raised on the West Coast of the United States.。
And I am 67 years old.。
I've been married for nearly 37 years.。
And my wife and I have two adult sons.。
My family of origin had a low or moderate income。
and lived in an agricultural community。
adjacent to a nearby Native American community。
and in a place known as the Yakama Nation,。
a designation of a Native American tribe,。
namely the Yakama Nation.。
And in a community served by itinerant farm workers。
who traveled each season to labor。
in the agricultural harvest around us.。
My life as a white American was not their life.。
We lived in proximate, parallel,。
but utterly different worlds.。
I grew up in a tight knit family。
in which my father saw religion and religious devotion。
as one of the most dangerous influences。
in the world, one that he wanted his two sons。
to avoid if at all possible.。
So my Christian journey began as I started college。
where I became a Christian through reading the gospels.。
I simply had an intellectual and social curiosity。
about the Bible and felt that since I was on the road。
to becoming, I hoped, an educated person,。
I should read the Bible.。
And I began with the Gospel of Matthew.。
My father had committed to do all he could。
to keep his two sons from religion。
and especially from religious devotion.。
His argument from history and experience。
was that religious people,。
particularly Christian people in his assessment,。
by the influence of their faith,。
take great things, the universe,。
the mystery of being human,。
and turn them into something that's actually very small.。
My father is a Christian.。
My father illustrated this through the history of science。
and Christianity, but also through social。
and political history,。
as well as moral philosophy and practice.。
To my great shock, what I discovered。
in the New Testament was first。
that Jesus shared this same concern as my father.。
Many of his expressions address that very concern.。
And yet Jesus' antidote to small-making。
is what he announced and displayed。
to be the kingdom of God,。
the reality that cracks the whole universe wide open.。
This was the gift that I was being offered。
through the New Testament,。
the gift that shocked me。
and ultimately has come to change my whole life.。
My life as a disciple to this day。
has been constantly shaped by the dialogue。
between my father's anxiety about Christian faith,。
which I believe was accurate and fair,。
and how it has been constructively shaped now。
by the dialogue between that anxiety。
and the comprehensive and personal character。
of God's loving reign in Jesus Christ by the Holy Spirit。
through one new humanity that we call the church。
for the sake of the whole created order.。
The first Christians I came to know were and are。
some of the most positive spiritual influences in my life.。
They referred to themselves as evangelical。
and the rest is, well, history.。
I stepped into a biblical story I had not known。
and into a community that became home to me.。
My spiritual life and journey has been full of God。
and full of a ministry of resisting smallness.。
Let's go back to the beginning。
and all of these sections of this lecture。
will be very, very introductory.。
And I apologize if they seem repetitive。
to what you may already know.。
By the 17th and 18th centuries,。
the so-called birth of America was already by that time。
long since underway.。
Only in the last quarter of the 18th century。
would it become a formally united project.。
But for two centuries before that,。
Europeans and European colonies had established。
what became the United States.。
Evangelicalism was a spiritual。
and theological renewal movement.。
Some would say one that emerged。
from the Protestant Reformation of the 16th century.。
Evangelicalism was both a spiritual movement。
and a way of conceiving of the Christian life.。
It was by no means then a party,。
let alone an organization or an institution.。
It was instead a fresh experience or movement。
of the Holy Spirit that cut across denominational lines,。
that spoke out into town squares,。
that brought influence,。
and uncontrolled by formal Christian structures or histories。
while declaring and nurturing people。
in what they saw as the first order matters of faith.。
By the last quarter of the 17th century,。
the 18th century,。
when the Declaration of Independence。
and the War of Independence occurred,。
the colonies were clearly hungry for change,。
expansion, freedom, and hope.。
This, along with various Christian awakenings in Europe。
and in America in the 1730s and the 1740s。
by groups such as Anglicans and Methodists,。
Reformed and Puritan,。
meant that institutional religious teaching and authority。
were being modified and challenged in various ways.。
Together, it created a readiness。
for a kind of spiritual awakening。
that was motivated by a readiness。
to receive the spiritual identity and life。
that could freshly ground them in this new context,。
in this new land.。
The great awakenings in Europe came to。
and triumphed in American soil.。
In retrospect, a British historian, David Bebbington,。
in his defining work in 1989,。
entitled "Evangelicalism in Modern Britain,。
"A History of the 1730s to the 1980s,"。
set forth that evangelicalism。
was centered on a quadrilateral set of traits,。
that it was Bible-centered,。
that it was cross-centered,。
that it was conversion-expecting,。
and that it was activist-oriented.。
This movement unfolded with undulations。
that responded to external changes,。
to the presence and practice of slavery, for example,。
to the critical study of the scriptures,。
to the anxieties spawned during the Enlightenment by science,。
to the realities of world wars,。
to the impact of pandemics,。
to the growing impact of higher education.。
It claimed a spiritual, theological,。
and experiential legitimacy。
more than an intellectual, denominational,。
or formal identity.。
It was a movement。
more than it was an institution or an organization.。
And therefore, it was adaptable to the East Coast,。
but it was highly flexible enough。
as the westward expansion in the United States occurred.。
In the 1920s,。
the fundamentalist modernist controversy。
drew and debated lines。
that were the fruit of this long history。
that had already been developed over that period of time.。
By the middle of the 20th century,。
when Fuller Theological Seminary。
and many other evangelical organizations。
and institutions were founded,。
evangelicalism had become a word。
that could serve as a pathway between two extremes.。
In the case of Fuller Theological Seminary,。
it was a way between fundamentalism。
and a wooden understanding of the Bible。
and its interpretation.。
And modernism,。
namely, potentially at least an adaptation,。
if not an abandonment of orthodoxy at times。
for the sake of being quote, "modern."。
Evangelicalism, as Fuller saw it,。
was an embrace of Christian orthodoxy。
that was open to more critical study of the scriptures。
and more open to engagement with realities around us。
in context and in culture。
than was typically true of fundamentalists。
or wholeheartedly true of modernists.。
So evangelicalism quietly and broadly。
remained in this position until the late 1970s,。
to which we will comment to the 2000s,。
including the last four years。
in the national and political life of the United States.。
Please note, again, several things.。
The lack of institutional or organizational center,。
the lack of a defining or controlling role。
or set of voices for what was in fact。
a diffuse and multiply defined and growing movement.。
The claim to knowledge that can and must define。
what is true and good was clarified by evangelicalism,。
but not with the emphatic certainty of fundamentalism.。
It had an orientation towards who is in。
and who is out in fundamentalism,。
whereas in growing evangelicalism,。
it was a sense that it was the center that was primary。
and not the boundaries.。
We'll return to this as well.。
We turn next to the complicity.。
Here is complicity in a number of social realities,。
which create a major problem for evangelicalism in America.。
From the earliest days in North America,。
Native American tribes were being displaced。
by formal and informal versions。
of the so-called doctrine of discovery,。
in which lands and peoples could be claimed。
under the authority of various European countries.。
The majority of this was theologically justified。
as part of a sense of the mission of God。
that reigned over all.。
The presumption was that this was legitimate legally,。
that it was morally right,。
that it was socially beneficial,。
and that it was most importantly, spiritually redemptive。
for those whose lives were now held inside。
and under Christian and European authority.。
The Christian church was manifest in a European defined。
and embodied set of terms.。
This meant that there were Roman Catholics。
and various Protestant churches as well,。
Anglican and Puritan in particular,。
that were involved in these matters.。
The church in America imitated the church in Europe,。
while it also opened the way for many。
who were defining religious persecution in Europe。
to be a motivation for immigrants to the colonies.。
Regional plots along the East Coast。
tagged with different primary European。
and Christian identities.。
From this intertwined connection。
between the doctrine of discovery and Native Americans,。
that is the readiness to dominate Native peoples,。
there developed an abominable extension.。
An intertwined connection between white Christians。
and African slavery was early and well-established。
in the United States.。
The doctrine of discovery established by the Pope in 1493。
created the legal, political and religious claim。
of land and people that were not Christian.。
This plain and historic doctrine。
became the driving theological and missiological force。
underpinning colonialism and its mutating motives。
and expressions to this very day.。
What was fundamentally a political。
and economic vision initially was justified。
and defended even more passionately as a theological one,。
trumping and masking the political and economic benefits.。
The doctrine of discovery provided the theological cover。
and the unlimited possibilities for economic expansion。
that were simply too much to resist.。
Colonialist condescension and rationalization。
looked away from and denied the horror。
of the transatlantic slave trade。
and the practice that denigrated and dehumanized。
African men, women and children by the millions,。
all to satisfy the greed of colonial。
and post-colonial families in the name of the gospel.。
The unpaid labor of black Africans。
was the workforce that built America.。
Christians saw the expansion of agricultural。
and manufacturing capacity as it was neutrally called。
as the blessing of God.。
There are reports, as you probably know, in West Africa。
where kidnapped Africans were imprisoned。
after being taken in horrific conditions,。
before rather being taken in horrific conditions。
across the Atlantic Ocean, the Middle Passage,。
for sale in the Caribbean and in the colonies.。
In those ports, Christian worship happened。
to ask for God's blessing。
in the so-called Middle Passageway.。
One such chapel in Ghana, for example,。
was built across the bridge,。
upon which manacled slaves would later walk。
to the place where they would be tied and bound。
for the cross-Atlantic trip.。
In the chapel, above this gangplank,。
taking slaves on board the ship,。
would be the captors, the slave masters,。
the ship's captains and crew,。
singing hymns still familiar today.。
They would read the scriptures.。
They would pray for safety for all the crew。
and for the trip to be successful。
in the eventual sale of fellow human beings.。
For the servitude that would define them。
for the rest of their lives。
and the lives of generations and generations。
of slaves and slave families to come.。
All this being done in the name of Jesus Christ,。
as they would say, the Lord and Savior of the world.。
Among the perpetrators on both sides of the Atlantic。
were American white evangelicals.。
The convergence of the psychological。
and spiritual readiness of colonials。
in relation to this narrative。
of America's original sin is hard to trace.。
The ability to claim to love God。
while so obviously hating their neighbors。
was of course not invented in the Atlantic slave trade,。
but it was destructively and politically practiced。
for over 250 years.。
This practice involved the death of 2 million lives。
in the Atlantic crossing,。
the deaths of millions en route to their plantations。
and the sale of 12 to 14 million human lives.。
These are the ones who carried out the nation building。
that was the growing, emerging, uniting。
and Christian reality that became the United States.。
In the constitution of the United States,。
the phrase, we the people meant white land owning men.。
We the people are the people that are referred to。
in our constitution, not the slaves.。
African slaves were in fact classed by our constitution。
as three fifths human.。
All this brought the United States to war。
in the mid 19th century。
and the death of more than 650,000 lives。
during that civil war period.。
The war divided families and friends。
and congregations and denominations。
and continues to this very week to define。
and explain the American church。
and political rallies realities.。
The interwovenness for many evangelicals of faith。
and slavery now seems like an unbelievable aberration。
and yet it reveals the ways that culture。
and economics speak more loudly than our theology and faith。
and that we are more capable than we might imagine。
of wrapping desire with faith and calling it God's gift.。
The economic labor engine that built the United States。
was unpaid labor, unpaid labor for 250 years of slavery.。
It was claimed to be God's blessing for the owner。
and God's blessing for the uncivilized slave and family。
who because of having been taken captive。
and now "employed" as a slave,。
giving them the opportunity and privilege。
to live in a "Christian nation."。
The cruelty and sin that was right in front of them。
was apparently invisible.。
In other words, many, by no means all, white evangelicals。
were seamlessly in the church community。
and fully complicit in 250 years of slavery。
followed by 100 more years of extended slavery。
and depression into the assumptions of culture,。
economics, and evangelical faith.。
Debates continue to this day。
about the cause of the American Civil War from 1861 to '65.。
As a central matter, the main point of concern。
was however slavery.。
In Romans 1, Paul talks about our human capacity。
to hold down or to suppress the truth in unrighteousness.。
We do this in our own lives。
and the culture of Christian churches and congregations。
and institutions reflects this in various ways.。
But for a very large and focal part。
of white evangelical church in America,。
this habit became deep, multi-generationally ingrained。
and the white evangelical movement has at times challenged。
and at some times completely conceded。
to this kind of vision.。
There were of course in the 18th and 19th century。
white evangelical public leaders。
who spoke and acted loudly and sustainably against slavery.。
But the lowest baseline associated with。
and defended in Christian terms was the defense of slavery.。
Evangelical complicity with slavery,。
with reconstruction following the Civil War,。
with imprisoned and indentured labor, with Jim Crow,。
with bank control of real estate and money。
erupted in periodic riots and protests.。
As an example, 100 years ago this very year。
in Tulsa, Oklahoma, in the heart of Southern America。
and South, Southern American white evangelicalism,。
the most thriving black community in the whole country。
was decimated and 300 black lives were slaughtered。
because a black man was alleged to try。
and kiss a white Christian woman.。
The most economically thriving black community。
was burned to the ground.。
Wiping out an entire community。
who confessed that Jesus Christ is Lord.。
Only this year will this be fully faced,。
lamented and recognized.。
In different but parallel ways,。
this black narrative is not only the Native American story,。
but also in the United States, the Latin American story。
and the Asian story as well.。
In all these instances and many others besides,。
many in the evangelical church confessing Christ。
were also participating supportive or passive。
about these abuses, cruelties and injustices.。
Being perpetrated by those our Bible calls。
are made in the image of God,。
knit together in their mother's wounds,。
fearfully and wonderfully made.。
Complicity is too mild a word.。
It showed that many evangelical Christians。
had enslaved themselves to the injustice and abuse。
of fellow human beings for centuries.。
People ask, where was the church in Nazi Germany?。
The answer is the same place。
that many white evangelical Christians in North America。
have been during the past 400 years, right here,。
right in the midst of mainstream culture.。
This needs to be kept in mind, I might add as a footnote。
in understanding the events of the United States。
in the last week.。
We move next to the tsunami.。
The civil rights movement in America。
was primarily led by the black church in America.。
It has evangelical theology and doctrine,。
but did not choose for the most part。
to identify as evangelical because they were not white.。
And because the white evangelical narrative。
excluded black and brown people.。
The narrative the black church knew。
was the God who knew how to set his people free.。
And that narrative led by exceptional black Christian leaders。
and pastors was the narrative。
to which their civil rights movement was committed.。
Enormous and positive changes occurred.。
But in symbol and in reality,。
the murder of the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.。
slowed and diverted the narrative,。
along with the sacrifice of many others as well.。
For evangelicals, King was too liberal.。
And only very gradually as the black Christian critique。
of the white story of America became domesticated enough。
to accept Dr. King into some white Christian。
evangelical narratives,。
but only some and only relatively recently.。
By the late 1960s, the election of Jimmy Carter。
as a quote, born again, Christian,。
evangelicalism began to quickly step into the public light。
in a different way than before.。
By the 1980s, we have the birth of a movement。
called the moral majority。
and the rise of various media ministries。
that can propagate arguments of faith。
in continuous feeds of ideas.。
Simultaneously cable television news channels。
are developing and growing in passive popularity.。
And this development mixes together。
in a thick media presence of culture and religion.。
It's all presented as real,。
but what emerges is closer to reality TV.。
That is not so much an expression of Christian faith,。
as much as a combination of entertainment and production.。
Audience ratings are the most important measure of success.。
This becomes a globally spreading reality and infection.。
The experience of popular cable religious programs,。
most of them fundamentalist and Pentecostal,。
hosted by many different TV evangelists,。
turned to the political sphere in the '80s。
and unleashed a tsunami that flooded the religious airwaves.。
This went on for some time during the '80s and early '90s。
and increasingly addressed politics,。
especially related to abortion and sexuality debates。
and claimed an enormous, both American and global audience.。
In 1996, Fox News was established by Robert Murdoch,。
Rupert Murdoch, and further amplified the voices。
of popular fundamentalist, conservative pastors,。
TV evangelists, organizations, churches,。
and political groups.。
Along the way, these became known。
as the evangelicals by the media.。
It was a title claimed by those that the media amplified。
and made more culturally acceptable。
than the tag that had been used as fundamentalist。
or Pentecostals, who were seen more to be。
at the margins of culture,。
whereas evangelicals became a more acceptable。
mainstream term.。
This was the tsunami that took over the term evangelical。
in the United States, and it remained so。
through the late '90s and certainly。
during the first two decades of the 2000s.。
This all happened as the growth of megachurches。
in the United States also expanded from a few hundred。
to thousands of such congregations.。
The pervasive lack or minimalization。
of theological education in most of these movements。
was quite appalling.。
It created a large collection of communicators。
who were not marked by careful thought or by accountability.。
It became a tribe of its own with its own regard。
and disregard for boundaries.。
Effect, popularity, emotion all dominated。
with a popular unselfcritical frame and attitude.。
Typically a single personality and voice。
dominated the message.。
But all this is too simplistic.。
Two parallel narratives or realities。
also need to be acknowledged.。
First, the media prominence of white evangelicalism。
was similar, but always distinct from the rise。
and growth and development of the black church.。
Some, if not all of the same theological markers。
describe the rise of the black church,。
but the social associations do not,。
quite the opposite in fact.。
The white evangelical church and the black church。
were distinct, separate,。
and had very different characteristics.。
The most important one might be assumed。
to be integration of faith and context of the love of God。
and the justice of God in Jesus Christ.。
And the suffering of blacks, including black Christians,。
who suffered from the brutal racism。
and the white supremacy and normativity。
that pervaded the American landscape.。
More on this in our next lecture.。
The second layer that needs to be acknowledged。
is a smaller reactive movement of neo-evangelicals。
who specifically and stridently rejected。
the sociology, policy, and politics。
of conservative Republican white American evangelicals.。
This cross current is essential。
to understand the state of affairs today。
in the US evangelical landscape.。
The rabid condemning response of conservative evangelicals。
to the HIV/AIDS crisis in the 80s and 90s。
added another layer of judgmentalism。
and cultural division and separation,。
all justified by quote, "The good news of the gospel."。
Unquote.。
The crisis of today has a long development that precedes it.。
So finally, today.。
Today, American white evangelicalism。
is publicly and privately in a shambles and in confusion.。
Publicly and broadly,。
the identification of evangelicalism with Trumpism。
and the loss of the 2020 election。
was a resounding repudiation。
of American white evangelicalism。
by the broad American public.。
Not least by African-Americans, but also by many whites.。
Many up to this point,。
evangelicals were silent or deflective of the racial issues。
and associated with the appointment under Trump。
of conservative judges at all levels。
and the dismantling of various social safeguards.。
The aggressive politics and policies of America first.。
The anti-immigration and anti-LGBT,。
anti-abortion, anti-racial justice,。
and anti-science stances。
that have all been part of the Trump administration.。
And then the post-election unwillingness since November。
to acknowledge Biden's defeat of Trump.。
Over 73 million Americans who voted for Trump。
in this last election。
included still 80% white evangelical voters.。
The summer of 2020, before the election,。
will go down as one of the most prominent。
and provocative seasons of racial demonstrations。
in the United States to date.。
Triggered most directly by the murder。
and a string of murders of unarmed African-Americans,。
and especially the killing of George Floyd。
by white policemen.。
Somewhere between 15 and 25 million people。
were active in demonstrations over this past summer。
in cities and towns across the country.。
People of all races and ages and political affiliations.。
Virtually nothing was said or done。
by many that the press turned to。
and called evangelical leaders.。
The height of offense to evangelicals。
should have been taken。
when Trump aggressively dismissed protesters。
for a photo opportunity in front of a church。
in Washington, DC,。
in order to hold up there an upside down Bible.。
But instead, Trump's actions were heralded。
by prominent white evangelical voices.。
The political and public rejection of science。
in response to the coronavirus pandemic。
added a third layer to the problems of this moment.。
More fuel yet to the fire。
that put the voices of political。
and evangelical forces on the side of being,。
frankly, reality denying.。
Denial of racism and white supremacy,。
denial of the coronavirus and trust in science,。
denial of the election and its outcome,。
all has many evangelical supporters in common.。
Typically, when these denials are offered。
as an expression of Christian faith,。
then it appears to the wider American culture。
and to many Christians and non-Christians。
inside the United States,。
that it appears that evangelicalism。
has less and less to do with ordinary reality,。
the reality that everyone else lives full time.。
The tradition that has elevated the possibilities。
of spiritual and theological knowing in Jesus Christ。
appears to have abandoned the possibility of knowledge.。
This historic theological and cultural stew。
is the crisis of American white evangelicalism.。
For me personally, it is a crushing,。
maddening and tragic story,。
but far more importantly, and I hope that I am wrong,。
this highly public narrative。
holds every sign of driving a multi-generational,。
decimating disaffection with many people,。
not least many young adults in the United States.。
For if this, this that has been demonstrated。
in the last four years and in the last months。
and in the last weeks,。
if this is the fruit of white American evangelicalism,。
how could it ever be claimed。
that its gospel could be received as good news?。
So in light of all of that, what is the hope?。
Jesus said, "I am the way, the truth and the light."。
This is the word that defines and holds all other words.。
This is the plum line, the true vine,。
the rock that is our origin,。
our redeemer and our sustainer.。
"Behold, all things are being made new,"。
the apostle says, even white evangelicalism。
that promotes that hope for others,。
that hope for others when it is a time。
when we who are white evangelicals in America。
need it more than ever.。
On many levels,。
the white American evangelical population。
does not want to live out its theological identity。
as much as it wants to justify its social。
and racial identity.。
And more on this in the next lecture.。
There's no joy in sharing what I have said in this lecture.。
Story could be told in the positive light。
of God's true and faithful bounty.。
In truth, it is a both and story.。
God is faithful to white American evangelical church.。
The white American evangelical church。
is a deep and painful crisis.。
In this lecture, I've tried to show the scope of the problem.。
Tomorrow, I will turn to some of the more underlying reasons.。
Let me stop there and see if there's comment or questions。
as we engage together.。
- Thank you, Dr. Labbaton。
for walking us through the past three centuries,。
giving us a quick but succinct historical survey。
of how the present evangelical crisis came to be.。
So in what follows, two members of our faculty。
will give their response to Dr. Labbaton's speech.。
Before introducing them,。
I'd like to remind the audience。
that a question and answer session。
will immediately follow the responses.。
All the questions can be posted on our website。
in the live streaming page.。
And you may scroll down the webpage.。
After the live streaming in Mandarin,。
there is a Q&A session,。
and you're most welcome and strongly encouraged。
to input your questions there after inputting your name.。
Your questions or comments can be either。
in Chinese or English.。
Now, our two responses, our two response speakers today,。
they are Dr. Chen Wing-Yen,。
our visiting professor in practical studies,。
and Reverend Dr. Song Jun,。
our Philip Teng Associate Professor。
in theological studies.。
Their responses will be given。
in English and Putonghua, respectively.。
Let's welcome them with our applause.。
- Thank you, Dr. Labbaton,。
for your wonderful lecture,。
and I feel so honored to give my personal response here.。
I was drawn to the Fuller School of Theology。
long before I entered the CGST.。
I think most of the Hong Kong churches know Fuller。
not only as a seminary and a training ground。
for counselors and theologians,。
but also as the school for training intercultural workers。
and teachers in mission.。
The two CGST mission faculty members prior to me。
both got their DEMITS degrees。
from Fuller's School of World Mission,。
which has now changed her name。
to the Fuller School of Intercultural Studies.。
To me, Fuller's intercultural studies。
excel on issues like gospel and culture,。
intercultural communication,。
cultural anthropology, and so on and so forth.。
And we have all benefited。
from the easy-to-grasp concepts。
like 10/40 window,。
unreached people groups,。
people movement in church growth, et cetera,。
developed by the Fuller faculty.。
We are also on the receiving end。
from a lot of American missionaries。
coming to this part of the world.。
Personally, I had great friends。
among the American Southern Baptist missionaries。
when my family was in Sri Lanka three decades ago.。
I had very mixed feeling experience with them。
who worked closely with me in that country.。
We were great friends,。
so much so that we had asked an elderly couple。
to be the godparents of our infant son.。
But at the same time, we avoided too close a connection。
because of the way they carry themselves.。
Coming in with obvious financial power and human resources,。
locals commented that they lived like kings.。
Another difficulty between us was our differences。
in seeing the meaning of the gospel。
in a world war-torn land.。
To our American colleagues,。
their job was to get the message of the gospel across。
without ever touching on the problems。
of inequity and injustice that were rampant in the country.。
A lot of their mission theories and conceptual framework。
were generated from social sciences,。
which were excellent tools。
for reaching people outside the church.。
But unfortunately, such techniques did not touch。
on the socioeconomic political aspects of the gospel.。
And the good news of God's mercy and justice。
to a broken world has been missed out.。
What is the gospel to a world plagued by systemic oppression。
against the minority and the disadvantaged,。
especially when privileged middle-class Christians。
were being implicated as part of the unjust process?。
After reading Dr. Levitin's lecture script,。
I could suddenly solve the puzzle I have。
regarding the focal areas of American missiology.。
Now I understand why the packaged Kairos Mission Course。
did not mention the special needs。
of the poor and the marginalized,。
and why in another classic package called Perspectives,。
out of 169 articles, only six, that is 3.5%,。
directly talk about the issues of poverty and social ills.。
Now I understand why there's no mentioning of liberation,。
of ethnic equality, and of suffering and persecution,。
because the majority of authors belong。
to a majority of white evangelicals。
that have actually turned a blind eye on these issues。
on their own doorsteps.。
Then the problem is getting serious。
because we have imported the whole paradigm。
and repeated the same patterns of missionary engagement。
in our Hong Kong and Mainland churches.。
These days, we talk a lot about the Silk Road initiatives。
that have enabled Chinese missionaries。
to venture far beyond the country border,。
going to countries that badly need。
Chinese input in their businesses.。
But in all these Asian and African countries,。
do we have to ask if our political supremacy。
and economic advantage reflect a God。
that care for sins generated from power imbalance?。
How much are we implicated。
in some of the irregular Chinese trading methods。
and exploitation of people and the land?。
The way we carry our presence speaks volumes。
about the gospel we preach.。
The contemporary Chinese mission movements。
like Back to Jerusalem, the Homecoming Chinese Gathering,。
or Mission China 2030,。
have gathered momentum in recent years。
to mobilize Chinese Christians to serve the global church,。
which is very good indeed.。
However, despite all their good intentions,。
they all carry certain air of conquest and entitlement,。
painting the Chinese church as the country。
used by God at the end to finish the task。
to preach the gospel to the ends of the earth.。
Such stance does energize and motivate people。
in positive ways,。
but are we going out as conquerors and saviors。
or as fellow sinners needing redemption?。
Do we dare to mention that we are also being sinned against。
by the social system?。
The same holds true within the Chinese soil。
when a sizable group of Chinese Han Christians。
enter minority groups without any attempt。
to embrace a world of weakness,。
vulnerability, and marginality.。
Han Christians often fail to identify。
with the struggles of being minorities,。
refuse to learn minority languages and cultures,。
and expect ethnic Christians to merge。
into the majority Han churches.。
Thus, they have inadvertently adopted a mindset。
and lifestyle that support inequality.。
Critical self-reflection is truly needed。
for missionaries and their sending bodies.。
Another problem coming out from this superiority mentality。
is the lack of partnership with the weak。
in the advancement of the gospel.。
We pride ourselves when we play the savior mode,。
sending out workers to places where the church。
is poor and depleted,。
and sometimes even persecuted.。
But we are not ready to encounter truth in those contexts。
which may change and challenge our current position。
in our theology.。
Are we ready to engage with cultures。
that may be superior to ours,。
not in the modern-day economic technical sense,。
but in the sense of classic moral standards。
that sometimes have even worked on the archaic,。
like caring for the elderly, communal sharing,。
the demand to uphold family name and honor,。
the emphasis on resilience in suffering。
instead of success, et cetera, et cetera?。
Are we repeating the failures。
of American white evangelicalism?。
Coming back to lecture today,。
we might not be able to feel the kind of pain and anguish。
Dr. Leberton has on American white Christians。
because the whole scenario seems so distant.。
But we know we are all bundled together。
in this global village,。
and it's time for us to confront the whole array。
of misrepresentation of the gospel。
and the darker side of human nature。
being dressed under the cloak of evangelicalism.。
I pray that together we might be able。
to find a way out of this mire.。
Thank you.。
(footsteps)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- Dr. Leberton,。
President Lee, distinguished guests,。
colleagues, and students,。
I'm most honored to be given the opportunity。
to respond to Professor Leberton's great speech today.。
I'd like to talk about the stories。
of American mission workers in modern China。
but it would be a totally impossible task。
to do justice to this rich legacy。
within seven minutes' time.。
However, I'm much encouraged by the example。
of the late Reverend Dr. Cheng Chengyi,。
one of the representatives of Chinese churches。
at the World Missionary Conference in Edinburgh in 1920.。
Reverend Cheng was able to clearly articulate。
the voices of the Chinese church。
within a short span of just seven minutes.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Tracing the footprints of the many American mission workers。
in China, from Elijah Coleman Bridgman,。
the first one to arrive in China in 1830,。
through to Loyal Holding Bartow,。
who finally died in prison in China,。
we can clearly see the dedication and contribution。
of the American church in China。
in those one and a half centuries.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
The impact made was enormous and imperishable,。
so much so that even after over 70 years,。
the new China could not totally remove。
all the marks and traces they left.。
If we push the clock back another 30 years from 1949,。
we will find that the Chinese Communist Party。
had been a competition to Christianity。
since the party's inception in 1921.。
The competition was vigorous on many, many fronts.。
Both sides had wins and losses at different times.。
In respect of a number of resources and operations。
and other things, in the first 30 years of the 20th century,。
Christianity seemed to gain the upper hand,。
except that it didn't have a military presence.。
But by the end of the second 30 years,。
Christianity had lost almost everything.。
And during the third 30-year period,。
the competition ended in a draw。
if we look at numbers alone.。
There is so much that I want to tell about this period.。
So in the remaining five minutes,。
I should be very, very focused.。
In mid-20th century,。
the China Committee of the Division of Foreign Missions。
of the National Council of Churches of Christ in the USA,。
they conducted a study on the 150-odd American。
mission workers from 22 sending organizations。
who withdrew from mainland China.。
The report entitled "Lessons to be Learned。
from the Experiences of Christian Missions in China"。
was published in 1951.。
It represented the common reflections。
of that group of American missionaries in China.。
Now, one of the issues raised in the report。
caught my special attention.。
Whilst almost all missionary respondents agreed。
that services in the urban and rural areas,。
common education,。
improvements in agriculture, and so on,。
were all needed to meet the needs of the people of China.。
But 86% of the respondents pointed out。
that the Church had done very little。
in helping workers and farmers.。
And 31% agreed that。
the Church's action would build up a community。
that is totally detached from the poor people.。
And 31% agreed that missionaries tended to associate。
much more closely with government officials,。
intellectuals, and rich people.。
Since the mid-19th century,。
the most urgent priority for China。
and the most desperate dream of her people。
had been survival and rebuilding the country.。
For this, different organizations and individuals。
had put forward various proposals and solutions.。
At the same time, they were fighting for their share。
of influence and power,。
which was needed to change the country.。
That the Communist Party finally won this power struggle。
might be attributable to many reasons,。
one of which was the ability to hone in precisely。
to the crux, which was the farmers and the land.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So the communists penetrated into farming communities,。
enticing them with fair distribution of land,。
and tireless fought on their behalf,。
thus winning over their support.。
Let me clarify here。
that I'm only pointing out the aims of endeavors。
of Communist Party without commenting on the legitimacy。
of their tactics and actions.。
By contrast, many American mission workers。
tried to showcase the Chinese version。
of America's success story in becoming a strong nation,。
extending the American westward expansion。
all the way to China.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
With a promise that this gospel from across the Atlantic。
would bring about democratic political system。
in the American style, free market economy,。
and the Christian ethos embedded。
in the founding of the United States.。
I must admit that this is still the dreams。
of many Chinese Christians today.。
But as an agricultural country like China,。
what about the most pressing social issue,。
namely the farming people and the land?。
Indeed, during the 1920s to '30s,。
some American mission organizations。
did send some agricultural mission workers to China,。
and in some Christian universities in China,。
agricultural departments were set up.。
And some Chinese Christian leaders。
had championed some rural development movements。
and managed to get some financial and policy support。
from the then Kuomintang government.。
But their contribution was limited。
to symptomatic measures.。
These are like starting education in the rural areas,。
improving hygiene and farming technologies,。
but without tackling the roots of the problem,。
which was the land issue.。
But these efforts were not embraced。
by mainline Chinese churches.。
And indeed, just like a glasshouse flower,。
which bloomed only for a short while。
and soon to be destroyed by the Sino-Japanese War.。
Just as advocates for rural development。
were trying hard to persuade the mainline Chinese churches。
to change their focus,。
some mission workers in the tertiary education sector。
cried out in alarm。
that the communists had stolen from Christian thoughts.。
The communists had already put into practice。
the very concept of fighting for social justice。
for grassroots people.。
Pastors at that time also found that。
they were losing the young people。
to the communist movements.。
In the summer of 1933,。
special meetings were held among mission workers。
to discuss how Christianity could be as influential。
among young people as communism.。
The issue that I wish to bring up today。
is not whether Christianity could win the war,。
is not whether Christianity could win in this competition,。
but rather whether the church。
is following the path of life after Christ and His cross.。
Then Jesus said to His disciples,。
"Whoever wants to be my disciple must deny themselves。
and take up their cross and follow me."。
The young official in the Gospels had great wealth.。
So the meaning of the cross。
points directly at his wealth,。
his status,。
and challenging the social order on which he was established.。
Jesus answered,。
"If you want to be perfect,。
go sell your possessions。
and give to the poor,。
and you will have treasure in heaven.。
Then come, follow me."。
Christ has called His followers。
to tread on a downward path.。
The issue is not whether the church is in the middle class,。
but rather whether she is living out a different life.。
Separate from the world trends,。
and in accordance with Christ's commands.。
We can list four or more characteristics of evangelicalism,。
but each one may have the peril。
of becoming just a deceiving packaging.。
The crux is whether we are determined。
to internalize it as our inner value,。
and to be recognized as such through our earnest practice.。
Thank you.。
Thank you, Dr. Chen and Dr. Song, for your responses.。
And now, in the rest of the,。
we'll have about 45 minutes of questions and answers.。
And in fact, there have been several questions。
being sent in.。
And Dr. Levitin,。
can we start with a question,。
perhaps most directly related to your presentation?。
So, I think the first question is,。
what factors made evangelical Christians so blind。
to be unable to live out the truth of gospel?。
What can be done to change?。
What suggestions do you have。
for Chinese churches in America,。
which tends to so blindly follow the white churches。
in many or in all ways?。
Thank you very much for that good question.。
Let me start simply by also saying thank you。
to the two respondents.。
I appreciated very much their comments,。
and I hope I'll have a chance to interact。
with them at some stage.。
The question is penetrating,。
and I think maybe one way of summarizing it。
is that we are all aware that the gospel。
is far more radical than the church。
that names that gospel as usually ever wanting to be.。
What Jesus did and what he said and how he taught。
and what he called us to is just much more difficult。
and uncomfortable than we are usually willing。
to actually accept or even acknowledge.。
I think Christian history has shown。
that there is a great tendency,。
a common tendency to accommodate the gospel。
to something that we find more acceptable。
than to live in the radical way。
that Jesus exemplified and taught.。
So in talking about American white evangelicalism,。
I'm talking about one way that the church。
throughout history has simply accommodated。
the good news to the life that we wanna go ahead。
and live apart from the gospel.。
And we want to use the gospel as a framework。
for various purposes, for eternal life,。
for moral clarity, for social relationships,。
for hope, for love, for peace.。
For forgiveness.。
But the radical call to take up our cross。
and follow Christ has never been a popular part。
of the life of the church.。
And throughout church history,。
the number of people, as Jesus said,。
that are willing to do that are few.。
So let me begin first with saying that.。
So we're talking about the broadness of the church。
in its unwillingness to actually be radical followers。
of Jesus.。
And in many ways, the white evangelical church in America。
becomes a case study in what for different reasons。
could be said perhaps as the two respondents。
have indicated in some ways of the Chinese church,。
but it certainly could be true of countries。
all around the world,。
each in their own particular context and culture.。
But in the American setting,。
I would commend a book that I'm going to refer to again。
tomorrow called "The Democratization of Christianity。
in America."。
"The Democratization of Christianity in America."。
It's an exceptionally good book,。
which is an expression of the way。
that American Christianity changed as it moved。
from the East Coast to the West Coast of the United States。
and further and further into the South as well.。
And a great deal of the theme of the book。
has to do with the way that Christianity became。
something which people made up for themselves.。
So they had the Bible,。
but they often didn't have any educated leaders.。
They didn't have any kind of Christian community。
around them necessarily.。
They didn't have any educational institutions。
that were helping to guide and form their leadership.。
They just instead took the gospel。
or whatever it is that they thought they knew of the gospel。
and put it to work for their own designs,。
I'm sure humbly and earnestly,。
but often very, very specifically and personally。
rather than as a response to the Lordship of Christ。
over all things.。
And out of that came what now we would recognize,。
for example, as consumer Christianity.。
That is, I'm going to take from the gospel what I want。
and I'm going to keep the parts that I like that serve me。
and I'm going to more or less ignore。
or reject the parts that I don't like.。
And that pattern, which is one that emerges early。
in American history, is one that continues to this day.。
So the antidote to that,。
coming to the question asker's point,。
what is the antidote to that?。
I think the antidote to that has to do。
with how we form genuine disciples,。
not people who are part of denomination and a movement。
or an organization or a structure,。
but people who are truly devoted。
to being followers of Jesus.。
And then do it in community,。
because of course we're not meant to live this kind of life.。
We can't live this kind of life individualistically。
as Americans also try to do.。
We'll come to that more tomorrow.。
We have to do it in community.。
And in doing it in community,。
then we have the check and balance of other people around us.。
And the difficulty is that so often what we gather around us。
is a community that looks like us.。
So then the church starts looking like the social setting。
into which we were born,。
rather than a community like the apostle Paul,。
I would want to argue,。
suggests is meant to be an entirely new humanity.。
One humanity, a new humanity that reflects。
the death and resurrection of Jesus。
by the death and resurrection of ourselves。
in community of unlike people.。
That's the place that the church has often broken down.。
And that's exactly what happened in American church culture。
in historical terms, but it is largely still the case.。
So when a poll was done by the Pew Foundation。
two years ago about how many white Americans。
have close relationships with a person of another race,。
nearly 85% of white Americans said。
they did not have any close relationships。
with people that were not of their race.。
Now that's true of society in general,。
but if that's true of society in general,。
then it is tragically certainly true of churches。
who have a white normativity。
that often excludes people of color。
and does so in cultural and church terms.。
And then we just become a mirror, a hall of mirrors。
that we all look alike and act alike and talk alike.。
And therefore we think that's the gospel。
instead of letting the gospel radically redefine us.。
- Thank you, Dr. Levitan.。
I think you have raised several themes。
like taming the radical nature of the gospel,。
the consumerism, and also bringing together。
unlike people in the new created community in Christ.。
So these themes sound also familiar。
here in actually in the Chinese churches。
and the churches around here in Hong Kong as well.。
So I think this lead very naturally to a second question.。
Actually, it's a small agenda in nature.。
It says maybe our two response speakers。
have to fill in some of the gaps as well.。
It asks, "In what way does American white evangelicalism。
"affect churches in Hong Kong now?"。
So yes, I think we need wisdoms。
from across the Atlantic, Pacific.。
- The respondent should speak first.。
- Okay.。
So perhaps I translate the question。
for Dr. Sung-Jun first, okay.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Maybe we may start with a born Chinese,。
Hong Kong, sorry.。
- Well, I noticed that there are quite a few。
faculty members now on the floor.。
So I'm expecting some of your response as well, okay.。
We need your input.。
And yeah, because of my location,。
I mean, I feel more and more distant。
from the Hong Kong current scene to be sure, yeah.。
But I'm just thinking that。
just following up on Dr. Leberton's remark,。
I think we need to be aware of our inclination。
or this kind of。
tendency to group together with people。
who are alike with us, okay.。
So I mean, this is something very natural。
because you feel so comfortable.。
We will stay in our comfort zone.。
But right now, because of the divisions,。
the divisiveness among the churches in Hong Kong,。
I think we need to sort of alter our mentality.。
We need to keep reminding us that we have to keep。
reading from the other side。
and then to listen from opposing angles and views.。
So I think this is kind of a discipline.。
I call this even spiritual discipline for us。
that we need to constantly keep。
learning, learning and trying to see。
what we have missed in our own framework, okay.。
So this is something that I think should be done.。
But if talking about this whole concept of,。
whole tendency of white evangelicalism。
and their influence on the Hong Kong church,。
I'm feeling that whatever American is doing now,。
would have global effects, like it or not, okay.。
So we have to acknowledge that。
because of all this online information。
and all because of all the,。
the most of the theological material we study,。
imported from the West and because of the majority。
of written material from the States,。
I mean, we are really affected by the whole concept。
of, the whole concept of。
theology that would underplay the,。
the emphasis or the look on the weak and the marginalized.。
This is what I'm talking in my response。
because of this whole idea of success。
that you can do it, freedom and all this idea。
that is very positive thinking and it's really good for us.。
But on the other hand, I think we really lack。
this whole concept of suffering and persecution。
in American theology.。
And we import them and then we tend to talk about,。
say when we talk about suffering,。
we talk about personal suffering as such。
instead of social suffering.。
We talk about this whole concept of suffering。
because of illness, of age, but we know that。
in the end, actually, most of the suffering。
actually comes from a social setting.。
But because Hong Kong churches are in general。
also very middle class.。
And so we can hide in our small niche。
and then we can feel comfortable.。
And again, we can sort of explain our whole being。
with a very limited kind of framework.。
And so I'm feeling that if we look broader。
into the whole global world and read more about。
the kind of experiences and narratives。
from more of the third world countries,。
from Africa, from Latin America,。
and from say South Asia, et cetera,。
I think we'll really try to wean ourselves。
from American evangelicalism.。
>> Thank you very much.。
>> Thank you for the question and the response from Wenyan.。
I just want to respond to one point.。
From what Dr. Levitin talked about American evangelicalism。
true to the critical and put into action.。
I think the churches in Hong Kong do have the DNA。
of evangelicalism.。
But there are three things which are also pointed out。
in the question.。
And as someone coming from mainland China,。
I have such observation.。
The first one, from 1980s onwards,。
churches in Hong Kong,。
more and more members of them are becoming more concerned。
about social issues, especially among young Christians.。
And this is a very clear sign.。
The second point is,。
in Hong Kong there are also many ethnic problems.。
But among Christians in Hong Kong,。
very few of them would voice out their response.。
Most of them do not admit that there is an ethnic problem.。
But as a very international and open community here,。
with many, many people from many different。
ethnic backgrounds living here,。
their conditions and their problems, their livelihood,。
is not something that is a concern of Church of Hong Kong.。
The third point is,。
many churches in Hong Kong are middle class,。
neglecting concern about the grassroot people.。
But admittedly, there are many organizations,。
Christian NGOs, who are helping the underprivileged.。
But they also have characteristics。
of the middle class church.。
Thank you.。
- Dr. Levitton, any further comments after hearing the two?。
- Augustine was convinced that sin is disordered love.。
And every culture has an order of loves that it prioritizes.。
And in American culture, loves that tend to get prioritized。
are loves like the love of personal happiness,。
the love of pleasure, the love of success,。
which can be monetary, but it can be other things as well.。
The love of power, the love of beauty.。
These are all things that are part of our loves.。
And we live in a world of disordered loves,。
where we're meant to live and sustain ourselves,。
first and foremost, out of the love of God,。
and in response, showing our love to God as our first love.。
But of course, the nature of the human story。
and the nature of the American white evangelical story。
is the story of us attaching our lives to other loves,。
and then trying to make peace。
with the way that they do and don't fit。
the call of a disciple.。
And part of what we're called to is to reorder our loves.。
And I think this is where Christian worship。
reveals both our sin and the places that American culture。
has influenced many places around the world,。
and the ways that we are meant to be redeemed.。
So ideally, we could say public worship。
is meant to be an experience of reordering love,。
to be regrounded again in our love for God。
and our love for our neighbors and our love for ourselves.。
And within the ordering of loving our neighbors,。
it doesn't mean the neighbors that are like us。
or who like us, but as Jesus says in the Sermon on the Mount。
it even can include those who are our enemies.。
So to live into that kind of reordered love。
means that our public worship has to feed those appetites,。
nurture that desire that we would be those kinds of people.。
But instead, the American worship that we've exported。
is often a worship of entertainment.。
It's about celebrity, it's about money,。
it's about beauty, it's about fame, et cetera, et cetera.。
And not as Dr. Chan said so beautifully,。
it's not about the first love of God,。
particularly for the poor and for the neediest.。
So we are not cultivated to love what God most loves.。
And instead we're recultivated in the church。
to love what we already love.。
And then to just go on loving it even more。
rather than actually reflecting the love of God。
for the world.。
So I fear that we've exported that。
and it is its own musical。
and worship entertainment industry。
that has often been exported.。
And tragically that forms people to love the wrong things.。
- Thank you for your comment.。
So your comment has encouraged me。
to study more closely your two books,。
The Dangerous Acts of Worship。
and The Dangerous Acts of Loving Your Neighbor.。
I think I will take out more answers from your two works.。
Well, actually bring that to,。
I think your mentioning of loving your neighbor,。
actually it has quite some impact。
on our present Hong Kong churches as well.。
So there are two questions a bit related,。
but actually there are some details there.。
So maybe it can help Dr. Levitin。
to help giving your wisdom about what we may do,。
how we may react in the certain situation.。
One question is from a pastor and he says,。
Dr. Levitin, your views on complicity。
is something we can relate to greatly in Hong Kong.。
Given the recent circumstances as experienced by Hong Kong,。
most churches are very divided.。
It is those who feel we should speak out。
against present happenings, against authority,。
and those who do not wish to at all.。
As a pastor, I can say that we struggle greatly。
with the balancing act of wishing to speak,。
wishing to speak against that which we feel is evil,。
and of not wishing to offend those members of the church。
who are strong supporters of authority.。
But you seem to present the view that we are either。
complicit and condone evil acts like slavery,。
or we speak out against it, which at least to war,。
and there's highly frowned upon in the Chinese community,。
which is all about harmony.。
So how should we juggle this balancing act,。
speaking or not speaking, and not to be complicit?。
So that is the very particular question.。
And in the more general nature is about how to communicate。
effectively and in a loving way to those。
who hold opposite opinions from you.。
So these are, I think, two very related questions.。
And can we hear your wisdom on that?。
- Yes, I'll offer what I have.。
Whether you consider it wisdom, I'll leave you to decide.。
Let me say first that what you've just described。
by that example is precisely what has been going on。
in the American white evangelical church,。
where you end up having some members of a church。
believe that, for example, that America and its government。
is not in any way an expression of God's will or desire.。
And in the same congregation, you have people who look。
at what's going on and say this at last is the best。
and most supportive government for Christians。
that the United States has ever had.。
So how do they share in the same congregational life?。
So this problem that we're all describing manifests。
under different issues perhaps,。
but the dynamic is really the same.。
So when I think about, first of all,。
how Jesus responds to this dilemma,。
he moves toward the stranger, toward the other,。
and also actually toward the so-called enemy.。
These are such dramatic examples,。
but one of them, for example, would be at the end。
of the Sermon on the Mount, when Jesus says。
that we build our house on rock or on sand,。
he's clearly saying that we build our house on rock。
by actually doing the truth, not by just affirming it。
or confessing the truth.。
We live the truth.。
That's how we build our house on rock.。
And what's interesting is that right after that,。
he encounters a person with epilepsy.。
Sorry, not with, yes, with epilepsy.。
No, sorry, excuse me, with leprosy, excuse me.。
And in that moment, he's invited to heal the person,。
and Jesus moves toward this person。
that was considered unclean, touches them, and heals them.。
And then if that's not enough of a shock,。
then the very next part of this is that a Roman centurion。
comes toward Jesus and says that a servant of his。
is in great need, could Jesus come and heal him?。
And Jesus says he's happily willing to do so,。
and the man says, "No, no, you don't need to come and do so。
"because you just say the word and it will be done."。
And then he pauses everyone around and said,。
"Did you just hear what this man said?。
"I have not heard," these are the critical words,。
"I've not heard faithfulness like this in all of Israel.。
"There are some people outside the kingdom of God。
"who will be in, and some who you presume to be in。
"who will be on the outside."。
Now, I share those stories because for me,。
they are examples of at least some of the things。
to consider in answering the question.。
I want to first of all move toward people。
that I might consider to be uncomfortable.。
They might not be, quote, "unclean,"。
but they're not like me or they are not easy。
for me to be with, or they are a problem,。
in quotes, in some way or another.。
And Jesus gives an example in this case。
and in so many other cases as we know。
about what it means to move toward people。
who are difficult, marginalized, awkward, needy,。
potentially unclean.。
I think there's a lot of tendency。
in contemporary culture around the world。
to label people clean and unclean,。
to be mindful that some are should be included。
and others don't deserve to be included.。
What's amazing about these texts。
in the early part of chapter eight of Matthew's gospel。
is that Jesus moves toward the man with leprosy,。
touches him, calls him a name of attachment,。
heals him, and does this completely counter。
to the pressure of the moment, the social pressure.。
But then more radically, when the centurion appears,。
the representative of dominating Roman authority,。
he receives the man's witness, hears it for what it is,。
acknowledges it and lifts it up,。
and then goes forward to actually heal the man's servant.。
Now, in both cases, I think we learn lessons。
about what it means to try to live together。
in a different way.。
In the first case, how do I learn to lean toward people。
that I might marginalize because of different opinions。
in churches over these very issues that you've just raised?。
That has to take practice to develop that ability.。
And I think often churches have small groups that meet。
or prayer groups that meet.。
Our ability to pray for one another,。
to grow in our capacity to love people。
inside the body of Christ is one of the kinds of prayers。
and the sort of work that we need。
to hold one another accountable to doing,。
not just becoming our own little small tribe within a tribe,。
but to actually learn to love one another,。
to see each other, to value each other,。
to honor in whatever way we can.。
And then the gold standard of Jesus。
is not whether we love those who love us,。
but whether we love those who don't love us。
or don't like us and who may even be our enemies.。
How do we also learn to practice loving people like that?。
And I think that happens in that case in Matthew 8,。
it happens first of all by Jesus。
just very carefully listening to what the man said.。
The most amazing part of that text。
is the way that Jesus hears his actual declaration of faith。
and then focuses on that,。
letting it fully be absorbed into his own heart and mind,。
and then responds back to that affirmingly.。
That is deep and profound faith,。
unlike anything I've heard in all of Israel.。
Well, that was scandalous, of course, to Jews.。
It was crazy to think that Jesus would do that.。
And yet Jesus listened very carefully。
and affirmed what he could affirm.。
Now, I think often in divided churches,。
like the ones that we're talking about tonight,。
we have to learn to really listen much more carefully.。
And often, not always, but often within the differences。
is a failure of really hearing the other person,。
really understanding why they're motivated,。
what it is that drives them, what their fears are,。
what controls their anxiety.。
Why are some people so insistent on holding on。
to certain forms of authority?。
And why do other people find it necessary,。
almost required for them。
to reject certain kinds of authority?。
Those are conversations that ultimately。
the body of Christ has to have,。
but we have to first be able to simply carry it out。
in a very respectful, mutual way.。
And that's gonna require that our hearts be remade.。
It's going to require, in Paul's language,。
that we be transformed by the renewing of our minds,。
that we have the heart of Christ。
and that we do not regard equality with God,。
that is taking our own prerogative and views as first order,。
but actually lay them down for the sake of loving。
and in some bizarre way,。
identifying with the person that we most disagree with.。
Those are just some small initial thoughts,。
but I think it's in that kind of direction。
that some of this work can be sustained.。
But as a pastor, we have to decide,。
and I was a pastor for 35 years。
before I became involved in formal theological education。
as I am now.。
And I was very, very aware every day as a pastor。
that it was about restoring community and communion.。
The word communion for me。
is one of the most valuable Christian words。
in the whole Christian vocabulary.。
And it's through that lens,。
communion with God, communion with one another,。
communion across the economic, social, political divides,。
that communion in Christ is meant to give us。
our ground on which to stand and build our lives.。
>> I think I do have something to add along this line。
from my experience with the mainline churches,。
because it's divided into the institutional。
and non-institutional churches.。
>> Yes.。
>> And I'm finding that this one major attitude。
that we need to have is to be humble。
and to know that in spite of all my conviction。
and understanding of truth, I don't have all the truth,。
that God is bigger and higher.。
>> Yes, yes.。
>> And I mean, if I know I have certain conviction。
that I'm following the right way in my choice,。
either it's institutional or non-institutional,。
but it's okay because I see the other party,。
the other churches as brothers and sisters。
and not as satanic work.。
>> Right, yes.。
>> So this is important.。
And another way, another solution is for me。
to be engaged together in some joint projects.。
Usually I find that some social projects is good,。
like some community work projects like that,。
together with people from different groups。
and denominations, they don't have denominations,。
but institutions, outside institutions.。
And if we work together, through living together,。
we come to appreciate what they have。
and what I don't have, okay?。
>> Right.。
>> And then by communing together,。
I think this is a way for us to soften our divide.。
>> Yes.。
>> And then I have to acknowledge that。
the divide is always there.。
I mean, I have no way to sort of--。
>> Right.。
You can't pretend.。
>> Yeah, I can't, I can't dissolve that, okay?。
But I can, to a certain extent,。
hold one another's arms and then we say。
that we can work together.。
And I always tell my friends that our enemies are outside,。
not inside this circle.。
>> Yes, right, thank you.。
>> So even though you mentioned,。
it's only your small initial thoughts,。
it takes a heart which is big。
and that can generate a large amount of courage。
and also so as to overcome a barrier。
which is as high as a mountain, actually.。
>> Right, right, that's the stuff.。
>> But we really appreciate that.。
And well, actually, this related,。
but not that political or maybe political,。
sexuality has become a political issue as well.。
So one of our faculty members raised this question.。
Suppose, so you are talking to。
the conservative white Christians。
who feel threatened by the LGBTQ movement,。
who feel that they are losing。
their once dominant social influence.。
So how would you encourage them to change?。
>> Well, I think it's along the very same lines。
that we were just discussing.。
I think it has to do with beginning first,。
not with theological assessments,。
but with interpersonal relationship building,。
letting people actually tell you their story.。
Often I find in settings like that,。
this is less and less true by the way,。
but it has been true,。
that people didn't believe that they knew anyone。
who was LGBTQIA.。
They didn't have any idea where those people were,。
but they were not in their life.。
Well, it turns out, as more and more people。
have been willing to explain and declare who they are。
and how they approach the world,。
they are discovering that their children,。
their grandchildren, their neighbors,。
their friends, their colleagues may either be LGBTQ。
or they may be related to people who are.。
And when that occurs,。
it's a privilege to actually welcome the knowledge。
of who someone actually understands themselves to be.。
So even though I maintain myself a traditional view。
of the theological and moral understandings。
of human sexuality that have been classic in Christianity,。
I don't do so as a wall against LGBT people。
or as a battering ram to defeat them.。
I want to hear them.。
I want to know them.。
I want to love them.。
I want to invite them into communion with me。
and with other people.。
I want them to not be isolated.。
I want them to not be self-loathing.。
I want them to feel as much welcome。
as I can extend to them.。
And so I would encourage such a community, for example,。
to think carefully about who they really know。
and how they are going to love people.。
And I think every pastor has to work out。
in their own particular setting。
how they're going to help people。
do this kind of self-formational work.。
But it really has to begin。
by the same things we've just talked about,。
laying down power, laying down certainty,。
laying down self-righteousness,。
not righteousness, but self-righteousness,。
laying down a presumption of a theological exam。
at the very beginning or a moral exam。
at the beginning of every relationship,。
which is not the way that any of us, in fact,。
actually live, nor would we want to live that way.。
So we want to know one another.。
We want to love one another.。
And there may be differences, of course.。
There are differences in how we see the world。
and relate to one another.。
But I want to start with, as Dr. Chan said,。
I want to start with an attitude of humility。
and of deference.。
I want to listen very, very carefully.。
I want to hear their story.。
I want to understand and empathize。
with the way that their story has unfolded.。
Now, I believe that all of our stories。
are held by a larger story that's God's story.。
So eventually, in some way, verbal and nonverbal both,。
I want to help people who are LGBTQ2,。
if they don't already,。
understand how to hold their story。
in light of the greater story of God.。
That's a longer and more theological question,。
but on the pastoral level,。
I think it has to do with inviting people。
into honesty, into their own vulnerability,。
into their places of pain and shame,。
and say, "Can you imagine what it's like。
to live in a community in which those realities。
are reinforced by the church?"。
People feel worse about themselves.。
People feel more marginalized about themselves。
by the way the church has related to LGBT people.。
And frequently, the church has been a failure。
in loving people who don't live up。
to what we believe are biblical standards, perhaps.。
-I'm deeply struck by your comment。
that it is a matter about loving and respecting your neighbors。
as creating an image of God.。
It's not about warring or battling。
for theological or ideological correctness.。
So this is a very important thing to remember, actually.。
And maybe another question,。
or perhaps that will be the one last question.。
Dr. Levitin, you talked about the influence。
from the media in the 1990s.。
So could you comment on the impacts on the social media。
in white evangelicals?。
-Yes. Well, it's, of course, a problem,。
as I would say it, at least all around the world,。
or at least in places where social media dominance。
controls things, as social media does dominate things。
in the United States.。
So you have public media of various kinds,。
but then you have just the social media。
and all the networks and communication of messages,。
which can be used as battering rams.。
And this is why it has been such a big deal。
in the last few days,。
since Twitter no longer allowed President Trump。
to be able to post his declarations of various kinds,。
as you've probably pleasantly experienced。
or seen or heard about.。
And he has a following on Twitter。
of something like 84 million people.。
So he would typically tweet,。
you know, usually several dozen messages。
over the course of a day, to 84 million people.。
So let's just imagine he was the only person。
that was engaging in social media.。
It would be a dominant voice.。
But because of how it's picked up and distributed。
and spread throughout network upon network。
upon network upon network, it just pervades our lives.。
And it is one of the major, I would say,。
toxicities that now influences the life of the church,。
which can't possibly compete with the overwhelming amount。
of social media presence and power。
that's influencing people's lives.。
We used to say it was television.。
It's less television, of course, now.。
And it's really the Internet。
and it's really social media in particular.。
And that makes Christian discipleship that much harder.。
So, yeah, I think it's an example of the fact。
that the American church has come to be dominated。
more by social media voices。
than by the faithful word of God preached on Sunday,。
encouraged in home,。
nurtured by individual discipleship,。
shared in small groups, right?。
These are things that can't compete。
against the ocean of social media.。
So I think it's a huge challenge。
and an example of the white evangelical church's willingness。
to just give that ground and to believe that all of that。
is one thing and then the church。
and its pleasant message is on another.。
And the two don't meet,。
and the radical Jesus of transformation。
and redemption is lost.。
- I hope today we are redeeming the social media。
by broadcasting something of positive value.。
And also, yeah, we hope that all those。
who are listening to Dr. Leperton's。
and our two response speakers' speeches will be enlightened.。
And we wholeheartedly look forward。
to the coming three lectures,。
which Dr. Leperton will be giving in the coming three days.。
And once again, a big round of applause。
for our three speakers today.。
- Thank you.。
(audience applauding)。
- And today- - Can I say one thing?。
- Yes, yeah, sure.。
- The difficulty of speaking on this subject。
is that I arrive in your presence with this terrible news.。
It feels like I've arrived with a very dark cloud.。
And I just wanna assure you,。
A, that that's not all that I think about,。
but B, there's all kinds of reasons。
for celebration and gladness。
in both the life of the church,。
including even the white evangelical church.。
But there are, this is a critical moment.。
I can't overstate that.。
And I am grateful for the chance。
to be able to talk with you.。
But I also want to encourage you,。
as I wanna encourage myself,。
to always remember the greater story。
of God's grace and love and mercy for us,。
the white evangelical church in America,。
for the church in Hong Kong and in China,。
and around the world.。
And so I feel like I'm giving you。
a very strange impression by speaking so critically.。
But because it's such an unusual moment,。
I am also grateful to be able to speak this honestly,。
and I hope it can be heard in that way.。
So thank you again.。
- Don't worry, Dr. Labusin.。
You have brought us a dark cloud,。
but actually we are under a massive thunderstorm,。
actually, here in Hong Kong as well.。
So, but I think taking an honest look。
at what the church and also the faith,。
our faith responses,。
actually you have given us hope。
that the gleam of light, of hope is coming,。
is on the way, is still always there.。
Thank you very much again.。
And thank you for joining us today.。
Okay, and I will see you, many of you, tomorrow again.。
Bye-bye.。
- Thank you.。
(gentle piano music)。
(gentle piano music)。
(gentle piano music)。
(gentle piano music)。
(gentle piano music)。
(gentle piano music)。
(gentle music)。
