Dear everyone, our distinguished guests, faculty, students,。
alumni, and brothers and sisters in Christ, good afternoon.。
Welcome to China Graduate School of Theology.。
The Josephine Soul Culture and Ethics Lecture Series this year。
marks the beginning of our 50th anniversary celebration.。
As CGST reaches the half centennial milestone,。
we reflect on a journey marked by abundant grace。
and faithfulness of our Lord.。
This milestone is not just a celebration of our past,。
but a testament to the steadfast mission of CGST。
over five decades in serving the Church。
through theological education.。
Our Jubilee theme, [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
A Mission and Beyond, encapsulates our legacy。
while looking toward the future.。
In a world characterized by rapid change,。
we recognize the challenges posed。
by generational divides, cultural shifts,。
and global migration.。
Through intergenerational, interdenominational,。
cross-culture, and cross-regional engagement,。
we aim to explore the relevance of the Christian faith。
and reimagine how to fulfill the mission of God today.。
The Josephine Soul Culture and Ethics Lecture Series。
began 40 years ago in 1985.。
Over the years, the series covered issues。
such as the contextualization of Christianity,。
the reconstruction of Chinese culture, and ethics.。
To align with our 50th anniversary celebration,。
the theme of this year's lecture series。
is cultural crossroads, navigating。
the dynamics of intercultural interactions.。
We are honored to have four distinguished guests。
from around the world to speak to us these two days.。
So let us give them a warm welcome.。
I will introduce them--。
[APPLAUSE]。
I will introduce them in the order of appearance。
today and tomorrow.。
Our first speaker is from Los Angeles, USA.。
Actually, a city captures our attention。
these couple of weeks, right?。
Dr. Daniel D. Lee, Associate Professor。
of Theology and Asian American Studies,。
Fuller Theological Seminary.。
Our second speaker is from, well, actually,。
many places, including Hong Kong, Singapore, Asia,。
and perhaps the whole world.。
Dr. Patrick Fung, Global Ambassador of OMF International.。
Our third speaker, well, now lives in Australia,。
but he is also from the UK.。
Dr. Daryl Jackson, Principal of Whitney College,。
University of Divinity in Melbourne.。
Finally, our fourth speaker is from the other side of Asia,。
Israel.。
Dr. Rula Mansour, Founder and Director of the Nazareth Center。
for Peace Studies.。
Our speakers will delve into topics。
such as identity, leadership, diaspora, and peace。
and reconciliation.。
It is our heartfelt prayer that this lecture series。
and the entire Jubilee year will inspire fresh insights,。
deepen our understanding, and spark new ways。
of serving God together.。
So thank you for joining us in this significant celebration.。
And I look forward to the enriching discussions ahead.。
Thank you.。
[APPLAUSE]。
Good afternoon, everyone.。
I'm Cherry Chen, Assistant Professor。
in Theological Studies at CGST, the host of today.。
Welcome again to the first section of the Josephine So。
Lecture Series.。
It is truly a joy to see all of you。
here as we embark on this special journey together,。
celebrating the rich intersection of culture,。
theology, and ethics.。
We are deeply honored to have Dr. Daniel D.。
Lee as our first speaker of this series.。
Today, he will introduce us to a fascinating topic,。
contextual paradox, non-essentialist identity,。
divine encounter, and the dangers。
of theological contextuality.。
Dr. Lee wears many hats with distinction.。
He is the academic dean of the Center of Asian-American。
Theology and Ministry and an associate professor。
of theology and Asian-American studies。
at Thule Theological Seminary.。
But that's not all.。
He is also a prolific author whose work continues。
to influence and shape the global theological landscape.。
Some of his notable contributions。
include Doing Asian-American Theology,。
a Contextual Framework for Faith and Practice,。
Double Particularity, Calebot, Contextuality,。
and Asian-American Theology, and The Theologies。
of Asian-Americans and Pacific Peoples, a reader, 1976.。
Dr. Lee's research focuses on the reformed tradition。
and contextual theologies.。
And he brings with him not only academic expertise,。
but also broad ministry experience.。
His work challenges us to think critically。
about the intersection of theology, identity,。
and culture.。
And I believe we are in for an intellectually stimulating。
section.。
Following Dr. Lee's lecture, we will have our response。
delivered by Dr. Daniel Lee of CGST.。
Yes, to Dr. Daniel Lee today.。
Don't worry, we will keep things really clear.。
Dr. Lee of CGST is the Eleanor and Wayne Shill Professor。
of Theological Studies and has been faithfully serving。
at CGST since 2005.。
With his deep roots in the Presbyterian Church,。
Dr. Lee is passionate about coordinating。
theological reflection with the contemporary challenges faced。
by Christians today.。
His vision is to achieve the rich resources of Reformation。
theology and make them accessible。
for the modern church.。
His book, The Theology of the Holy Spirit。
as Born in Calvin's Fort, is a testament to this vision.。
Now, without further ado, let us warmly welcome Dr. Daniel D.。
Lee to deliver his lecture.。
[APPLAUSE]。
You know, back at Fuller, there's so many Daniel Lees。
that I had to put Daniel D. Lee.。
But it turns out that no matter where I go,。
multiple Daniel Lees follow me.。
So--。
[LAUGHTER]。
All right.。
Let me begin with--。
here we go.。
Let me begin with a word of appreciation for President Wong。
for this invitation.。
What a joy to be part of this Josephine Sill。
Lectureship on Culture and Ethics。
on this special occasion of celebrating China Graduate。
School of Theology's 50 years of faithful service.。
As I pondered upon the four themes of 50 years anniversary。
celebration--。
cross-generational, cross-denominational,。
cross-cultural, and cross-regional--。
I thought about organizing my talk。
around the various paradoxes of theological contextuality.。
Now, before I continue to do that,。
I want to share a bit of my work and just my context.。
So I'm the founding academic dean。
for Fuller Seminary's Center for Asian-American Theology。
and Ministry, otherwise known as the Asian-American Center.。
Our mission is to equip, resource, and research。
the Asian-American church.。
And that basically means we train and support。
Asian-American Christian leaders.。
And this sounds really odd for non-Asian-Americans,。
because the word Asian is nonsense.。
Everybody's Asian, right?。
But in the US, it actually means something particular, right?。
So we have within our center East Asian-Americans,。
Southeast Asian-Americans, Southeast Asian-Americans,。
multiracial Asian-Americans, people。
who are quarter Chinese-American,。
because it matters for them somehow, right?。
We have a lot of adoptees.。
And somehow, all these different people。
are under this umbrella called Asian-America.。
And this identity means something, right?。
And the question is--。
and of course, even though you might have cousins who。
are in Canada or Australia, you think。
about generational conflict between first and second。
generation.。
But in the US, there's actually 170 years。
of Asian-American history.。
This is a long history, right?。
So I regularly interact with fifth generation。
Japanese-American and fourth generation Chinese-Americans.。
So we talk about that in addressing。
the spiritual and psychological concerns,。
because Fuller has a school of psychology as well.。
And we train Asian-American leaders,。
whatever their context may be, because some of them,。
they don't actually serve in Asian-American ministry。
context.。
They serve in multi-ethnic context.。
They might do all kind of different things.。
Or we might train people who work with Asian-Americans。
to understand who these people are, right?。
It's very broad.。
So the question is, what do these people share together?。
When you have an Indian-American,。
what do they really share with a Korean-American?。
What does that mean?。
So that's basically been the struggle,。
because apparently in the US, all the white people。
lump us together.。
And that actually became something, right?。
So one of my theological goals have。
been to help Asian-American individuals, as well。
as communities, know who they are,。
and also to bring their whole selves into God's presence。
for healing, for transformation, and for calling.。
That's basically what I do.。
And that mission, this concern, is what is filling my mind.。
And that's the perspective which I'm giving this lecture.。
OK?。
So without that context, it would。
be very difficult to say, why am I。
thinking about these certain things, right?。
Let me make two clarifications before I continue on.。
This is like my prologama.。
One is about paradox, and the other one。
is about contextuality.。
First clarification.。
I draw my understanding of paradox。
from Martin Luther's Theology of the Cross, or Theological。
Crucifixion.。
In his Heidelberg Dispensation from 1518,。
he talks about how the gospel message is paradoxical.。
Why?。
Because a savior who dies saves us, which, as you know,。
is nonsense, right?。
Or for you to be great in the kingdom,。
you have to become humble.。
So much of the gospel is paradoxical.。
It's not really logical.。
It's a paradoxical logic.。
It turns out that so much of the gospel。
and how we think about who our God is,。
it's talking about a God who justifies the ungodly, which。
is the doctrine of justification,。
or God who paradoxically creates the world out of nothing,。
or who raises the dead.。
I mean, by definition, dead people are dead.。
You don't raise them.。
So it's not about a logical conclusion about who God is.。
It's about a paradoxical revelation。
of what this God is like.。
Not just any God, but this particular God.。
This is how this God works.。
And we should think along in that sense.。
I always tell my students, we're not theists.。
Theism doesn't really help us that much.。
It's not the fact that God exists.。
It's that this particular God exists.。
It's a huge difference.。
You can't just jump from here, theism,。
just to the Christian God.。
So that's basically what I'm thinking。
about in terms of paradox.。
That things, when you think theologically,。
you would think paradoxically.。
And you will know how the gospel works.。
Sometimes I get this question, well,。
you're an Asian-American theologian.。
Isn't Martin Luther a medieval German theologian?。
So should you really be using a German theologian?。
I say, this is what I find interesting.。
When you study Luther, what he's trying to do。
is critique his context.。
He knows that so much of the theology of his time。
was taken up by Western philosophical tradition,。
Aristotelian ethics.。
And he said the gospel isn't that.。
So in some sense, I find that interesting。
from my perspective as an Asian-American,。
as I try to critique my white American education,。
and the gospel is not that.。
But it's not really my Asian heritage either.。
The gospel is not that either.。
There's going to be a conversion no matter。
where you're coming from.。
That conversion experience of what Luther talks about,。
I find it helpful for my purposes.。
So that's the paradoxical reasoning.。
The second point is this idea of theological contextuality。
as opposed to contextual theology.。
I generally don't like the term contextual theology.。
This is the reason why.。
When people talk about contextual theology,。
this label, it's usually used to label people。
who are not normal theologians.。
You know what I'm saying, right?。
Oh, Calvin, he's a normal theologian.。
But somebody like me, maybe I don't look normal,。
especially in the US.。
So non-normal theologians are considered contextual,。
the majority world, whatever that is.。
So in a sense, this contextual ends up。
being a way in which you separate。
the non-Western majority world, the non-white theology,。
from the mainstream just theology,。
just biblical theology.。
What am I reading, the Buddhist sutras?。
I'm reading the Bible, too.。
Why am I not biblical theologian?。
In that sense, I think the question。
of contextual theology ends up being。
a politics of who you label.。
Now, what's weird is that if you ask anybody in the US,。
at least, they'll say, of course I'm contextual.。
And I say, well, what does that mean?。
What does that mean?。
But the common sense is that when。
we think about contextual theology or contextualization,。
there's this universal gospel.。
And of course, if you're white or European,。
they have it already.。
But oh, these poor people in Hong Kong,。
they have to contextualize.。
And I say, oh, this is a big problem.。
In that sense, then we have a problem how we label things。
as contextual, right?。
One of my favorite writers, purely surprising winner,。
novelist Viet Nguyen, he talks about-- he。
rejects the label of being the great Vietnamese-American。
writer.。
People are like, oh, you know, New York Times,。
the great Vietnamese-American writer.。
And he says, well, do you call F. Scott Fitzgerald。
the great white American writer?。
Right?。
He basically says, adjective for all or adject for none.。
Either we're all just writers, or I。
am Vietnamese-American writer, and he's。
a white American writer, right?。
Because labels are being used to tell people you're not normal.。
And then there is such thing as normal.。
And that's the problem.。
Either label nothing because the labeling itself。
is being used to marginalize.。
So in that sense, I'm just a theologian.。
But theoretically, it's possible.。
But this idea of labeling nothing。
still ends up being problematic.。
Because for all the white European theologians,。
let's just be business as usual.。
They'll still label me anyways.。
So my perspective is, well, you can start labeling everything。
and expose all the hidden assumptions.。
Locate yourself as a theologian and your work explicitly.。
Make this labeling itself your theological and ethical。
responsibility.。
So in that sense, I would be an Asian-American theologian.。
Either way, you can use the word contextual in that sense.。
Everybody's contextual.。
But what I really want to push for。
is this idea of contextuality that everybody。
is interacting with.。
What does this mean?。
If somebody just says, well, of course I'm contextual.。
I think I was talking to Hauras, and he was visiting Fuller.。
And I asked him, what does he mean?。
He goes, oh, of course I'm contextual.。
He just moved on.。
And I said, that means nothing.。
It literally is meaningless if you get to say it that way.。
Because for me, I have to describe this.。
It has to mean something in particular.。
Because this idea of theological contextuality。
has to be developed, we're not there yet.。
We have to unpack this thing.。
But if you can talk about it, you。
can talk about how are you dealing with contextuality?。
How am I dealing with it?。
How are we dealing with it?。
And especially the ones that don't。
talk about the fact that they're contextual, that don't。
understand they're contextual, that。
is one of the most important points.。
How are you dealing with contextuality?。
So that's what I'm talking about in terms of contextuality.。
So enough of the polygam.。
Here is the outline of my lecture.。
And I would address three topics.。
And with three topics, I'll talk about the conflicting crisis。
and what I think is a paradoxical intervention。
to fix the problem.。
Where's the gospel intervention?。
It's actually a lot more complicated than you realize.。
It is not straightforward.。
First topic is the challenge of defining。
a context or an identity.。
And you'll see why I think it's very, very problematic.。
And I'll tell you why.。
My journey of becoming an Asian-American theologian was--。
I didn't like the idea of Asian-American theology.。
So God kind of like--。
even the fact that I'm here lecturing。
about Asian-American, I just find it very ironic.。
Because I just didn't want to do it.。
God kind of like dragged me kicking and screaming.。
And I'll talk about why.。
Second one's about addressing the very basis。
of theological contextuality.。
That its very foundation is in a doctrine of God.。
And the last one is about the dangers of contextuality.。
Because I always get questions about that.。
So hopefully I can kind of feel those concerns.。
Defining the context.。
I wonder if you know who this is.。
I heard gospel coalitions here and everywhere else as well.。
It's all around the world.。
This is Tim Keller, famous New York--。
he's late, Tim Keller.。
Very influential in my life.。
And I think there was a joke that--。
well, it was not a joke.。
Because his church, Vidiemur in New York City,。
was the biggest Asian-American church in the East Coast.。
Because half of his church was Asian-American.。
But all the staff was white.。
So really, really influential.。
So think about it.。
The first topic is about the complications。
of defining a context, and correspondingly,。
what it means to have an identity as well.。
And identity and context are intertwined.。
There's a thing called Hong Kong.。
There are people called Hong Kongers.。
So we'll talk about that a little bit later.。
And now because it's deeply rooted in individualism,。
in mainstream American society, you generally。
see it as an individual, with your own personality,。
with your values.。
And this idea is there in theology as well.。
Or even like ministry.。
You might read a Tim Keller book,。
and you say, oh, I'm going to apply this.。
So in a sense, everybody's an individual,。
and we don't have to think about the identities, in a sense.。
The world is full of people, individual people,。
with all their journeys.。
But we're all human, so we don't think about that.。
The problem here is that while the idea of being。
seen as individuals with personal particularity。
sounds great, it fails many minorities who are not white.。
In that this kind of individualism。
doesn't allow you to make sense of collective experiences。
of culture or race.。
Because of anti-Asian racism during COVID,。
there's people all over the world,。
actually, especially people who are living in predominantly。
white countries, who had to wake up and realize, oh, I just。
can't just blend in.。
We're Asian.。
We can blend in if we can, but we can't,。
because you stick out.。
And so people have to think about that.。
Well, how do you make sense of that when we're just。
all individuals, because it's a collective experience?。
So they would go to a white church or read Tim Keller,。
and you can't talk about this.。
You don't have language for this.。
So you realize that whether it be a racial experience,。
a cultural experience--。
I'm Korean-American.。
I grew up in Korea.。
And I immigrated over.。
My family immigrated over when I was 10,。
and I've lived there for decades.。
And so I consider myself Asian-American as well。
as Korean-American.。
But that can't be really acknowledged,。
because we're just all individuals.。
So after a while, you feel like, this doesn't really help me.。
There's something missing.。
It's helpful.。
Of course, I still think Tim Keller。
has been really influential in my life, personally even.。
But there's something missing.。
What is that something?。
So people will say, unsatisfied, some Asian-Americans。
say, I need better representation.。
I need a way of being seen.。
I want to seek out this Asian-American identity。
with its collective stories about cultural heritage。
and migration experience and racial trauma.。
So they run to Asian-American theology, right?。
And what can go wrong?。
What can go wrong by running to Asian-American theology?。
And this has been my experience, in a sense, right?。
And Asian-American theology says, oh, you know who you are.。
You are heir of this Confucian heritage.。
While the white-dominant rubric is mostly individualistic,。
blind to cultural and structural forces,。
the Asian-American frame, and actually。
a lot of other minority frames as well,。
suffers from a different kind of a problem, right?。
It's what I would call kind of a reductive or collectivist。
essentialism.。
It's a way of reducing people down, right?。
So in a sense, you say, well, who are you really?。
And then you get to kind of talk about your true identity,。
in a sense.。
Post-colonial theorist, Gayatri Spivak,。
she talks about this idea of strategic essentialism,。
that when you're trying to politically navigate, right,。
to mobilize, you have to kind of talk about your core,。
because you can't talk about everybody else.。
You have to say, what do we share together?。
You do it mostly for representation and activism.。
And in a sense, we do this--。
we can use like an East versus West kind of Orientalism.。
We can talk about--。
or we can talk about--。
when we talk about Asian-American theology。
using the strategic essentialism,。
it usually sounds like this.。
You say, well, look--。
I mean, for Korean-Americans, they'll say, oh,。
it's really Korean theology or Korean-American theology。
is really all about Han.。
You might have heard that, right?。
It's really about Han.。
Or maybe it's really--。
maybe it's not Han.。
Maybe it's Jeong.。
Or maybe it's Yen-Yang.。
Or maybe it's family.。
Maybe it's collectivism.。
Maybe it's marginality.。
Maybe it's shame.。
Maybe it's liminality.。
Maybe it's the Confucian mindset.。
But if you don't fit neatly into those things,。
and you feel like that doesn't really describe you that well,。
then you feel like this is not your space either.。
And even in the Asian-American community,。
there are different kinds of Asian-Americans.。
It's not like all of us are like, oh, we like Confucians.。
There are people who are like, yeah, I don't like it,。
but my parents is like this.。
Other people are like, oh, no, my parents。
are very progressive.。
They never even thought this about.。
My mom wasn't a Taiwan mom.。
Just didn't really-- it wasn't something。
that they thought about.。
And actually, if you think that--。
well, that's a stereotype, right?。
The idea of a stereotype is the fact。
that you say it's a reductive kind of way of talking。
about people in general.。
And stereotypes, as you know, is racist,。
because it's suffocating after a while.。
Is there truth to it?。
Yes, there is.。
But do you want to deal with stereotypes?。
That's not very helpful.。
This is what I call kind of a contextual paradox.。
You read white theology, and you find that frustrating.。
You read Asian or Asian-American theology,。
and you find that very frustrating.。
Here, you can be an individual.。
But it doesn't really describe your experience.。
You go over to Asian or Asian-American theology,。
and you say, wait a minute.。
Now I'm in a straitjacket.。
And I feel suffocated, because I don't。
feel like my individual particular experience。
and my particular features are really valued.。
So what do I choose?。
Should I choose where I can be myself?。
Or should I choose a straitjacket,。
where everybody just gets to be in a stereotype?。
This is why I found Asian-American theology。
frustrating.。
I just didn't like it.。
Like, I'm not a typical Korean-American.。
I'm a typical Korean-American, whatever that might be.。
What is that, right?。
Whatever the stereotype of a racist thing.。
I don't eat kimchi every day.。
Whatever, right?。
It's nonsense.。
It's literally nonsense, right?。
But that's basically what it sounded like.。
So I said, well, this house is helpful.。
I might as well just read Calvin at this point.。
You find yourself in this crisis.。
And I think the paradoxical intervention is the fact。
that you want to define a context in a way,。
but you don't want to do it in such a way that it's reductive.。
There's room.。
There's room to be, yeah, these are what matters,。
but I'm not telling you who you are.。
These are things that we have to kind of negotiate with, right?。
So you want to describe a context or identity concretely.。
But what you want to do is you want。
to avoid essentialism, the stereotypical reduction, right?。
Oh, you know, I heard Hong Kongers are all like this.。
You know, there's some Chinese people over here.。
Chinese, what?。
Like, that's a stereotypical word, right?。
Just Chinese people?。
What kind, right?。
Because as you know, those Chinese people。
and Singaporeans, apparently Hong Kongers。
don't like that much from what I've heard, right?。
They're very different.。
What does that mean to understand where you are?。
So you want to avoid this lazy, dull collectivism,。
this essentialism, because that's not going to help us.。
You have to avoid this essentialism that。
allows for diversity, dynamism, a way to have this flexibility.。
And in a sense, in terms of anthropology, what you find。
is that--。
Katherine Tanner has a book on the theology of culture.。
And she talks about the difference between modern。
perspective, modern anthropology,。
and postmodern anthropology.。
In a sense, earlier modern anthropology。
was talking about the fact that culture is static.。
It has its boundaries.。
This is who we are.。
And there's such thing as shame culture societies.。
There's guilt culture societies.。
Very distinct.。
Which one are you?。
And she says, this is actually not how culture is at all.。
The postmodern development said, well, it。
doesn't really work that way, right?。
I mean, it's helpful in some degree.。
But even as a model, it's too suffocating.。
It doesn't really work.。
Postmodern developments, why not rejecting the modern ideas?。
Start thinking about historical process.。
The culture is not something that's given,。
something that's formed, something that's actually。
finished.。
But it's alive.。
It's changing.。
I'll tell you something interesting.。
So I have a student--。
it's not in my manuscript, but I'll tell you.。
So I have a lot of Chinese-American students。
who might be third generation, fourth generation,。
or whatever.。
And I had one student.。
He went to visit--。
he went to Shanghai.。
He came back and said, professor, people in Shanghai。
don't act like how they should.。
And I said, how should they act?。
Well, they don't act Chinese.。
And I was like, what does that mean?。
You know, like, well, my grandma said,。
well, when did your grandma come?。
Like, 80-- well, that's--。
China's moved on, right?。
There's this problem of a time capsule.。
And this is a very common thing.。
When you immigrate over, you take whatever is there,。
and you protect it, which is really bizarre.。
Like, you know, you protect this thing.。
The first generation is like, this is what it is.。
And maybe later generation say, oh, you。
should be more Chinese with this thing.。
In the meantime, this is moving along, right?。
China's-- it's gone, right?。
Same thing with my parents when they visited Korea.。
Like, you know, because it's been like 40 years。
since we immigrated over.。
My parents visited Korea, came back and said, oh,。
my Korean name is Dongwoo.。
It's like, Dongwoo, you are more Korean。
than the Koreans in Korea.。
[LAUGHTER]。
And I looked at my parents and said, that is nonsense.。
The word you're using for Korean is literally nonsense.。
It doesn't help us, right?。
And you've been telling me all this time,。
I should be more Korean.。
But apparently, this whole idea of Koreanness is nonsense,。
right?。
There's something there.。
It's not total nonsense.。
But it's actually dynamic, right?。
That's the point, right?。
It's being continually negotiated.。
It's passed down.。
But there's something here that's actually contradictions。
and there are change, conflict, and there。
are different people who like it, don't like it, right?。
I mean, to some degree, how we think about Asianness。
is kind of like this, right?。
It's basically Hong Kong.。
Are you confusion?。
Well, maybe, yes.。
But if you said, theology should be done,。
when we contextualize to Asian people,。
we should have a confusion for theology,。
would it work for Hong Kong?。
It would not, because you are not like that, right?。
It doesn't work for you.。
So you look at that and say, well,。
I might as well just read Calvin at this point, right?。
Because it's too suffocating.。
It's bad methodology.。
There's something here, but it's bad methodology.。
And just by saying, well, we're all just a big soup。
of everything, it doesn't really help you either,。
because the soup still has different ingredients.。
It's not like you just throw everything in soup。
and it's delicious.。
I mean, you have to figure out what's in there.。
What I usually use is this.。
So in this sense, I say, I think about this,。
and I use a kind of a linguistic approach, right?。
According to cognitive linguistics,。
our experience is processed through language, okay?。
And language, as you know, describes our experience.。
It interprets our experience,。
but it also constructs our experience.。
And it's generative to think about the world。
in different ways.。
So keep that in mind.。
I'm actually approaching this,。
my idea of contextual kind of description,。
as a linguistic approach, not language per se, right?。
But this idea of a vocabulary.。
What words do you use?。
How do you talk about this?。
And how do you talk about it in an expansive way, right?。
Just not like a reductive way.。
When I, let me tell you what I mean by expansive, okay?。
I grew up telling my friends,。
and all of our friends talk this way.。
We would say, "Oh, that pastor, so Korean, ah.。
"Oh, that pastor's so Americanized, good."。
(audience laughing)。
And my friend, who's actually, you know,。
he's like third generation Chinese American,。
he's older, he goes, "Oh yeah, I grew up with the same word.。
"We call that Chinesey.。
"Oh, my grandma, she smell like tiger balm。
"and mushrooms and bitter melon, Chinesey, ah."。
Right?。
And I was like, "That's ridiculous.。
"China is like this middle kingdom of 5,000 years.。
"How do you use the word that reductively?。
"It's ridiculous, are you five years old?"。
That's how a lot of Asian Americans use the word Chinese.。
They don't know anything.。
It's like kindergarten level articulation, right?。
That's what I mean by language.。
You need something a lot more extensive, right?。
Nobody says that's Chinese.。
I mean, people in China, they don't talk that way.。
It's ridiculous.。
But that's what's gonna happen。
if you don't really have articulation.。
Now, that's a particularly Asian American problem。
because we get a purely white education.。
That doesn't really help us.。
I mean, it's better in Hong Kong。
'cause you can learn about these things, right?。
You can learn about, okay, this is basically。
what the history is.。
You can learn about the complications。
of what Confucius and Buddhism looks like.。
It's not a fortune cookie, right?。
Because that's what it is sometimes in the US.。
You don't really understand.。
It's like, oh, I read an article.。
I realize it's bad.。
I'm like, you read one article of a tradition。
over 2,000 years old and you think the whole thing's bad.。
That's how people talk, right?。
That's how people talk, okay.。
So the idea is the fact that we are like fish in water.。
That's my illustration.。
Imagine the fact that we're fish living in murky water.。
And I really don't know what the Chinese proverb,。
but I've read that the Chinese proverb says,。
if you want to know what water is, you don't ask a fish.。
'Cause it's very difficult when you're swimming。
in something to know what that is.。
And you have to tell me 'cause I'm gonna write it down.。
If your whole existence is in this aquatic world,。
born, eating, swimming, mating, dying,。
and you're breathing in, it becomes part of who you are.。
It's very difficult to know what that is,。
but it is definitely there.。
There is something there, right?。
Now, a lot of you, you might be like,。
oh, I've been Christian for generations.。
But do you not think that Buddhism is still in you?。
I'm not trying to say you should be Buddhist.。
I'm just saying it's in you.。
Like some of the food you eat, it's just vegetarian.。
It's those glutens, which I love.。
I mean, it's literally you're eating Buddhism, right?。
There's something about that.。
So it's in you, even though you're not trying to own it.。
Because this water's all-encompassing,。
it's invisible, it's difficult to see.。
And some of the things are neutral,。
some of the things are bad, some of the things are good.。
But we don't know what this is.。
Without the ability to name what's in the murkiness,。
we're all oblivious victims, influenced, controlled,。
and even manipulated by what's in the water.。
We have to be able to name what that is.。
And I always tell people, isn't it interesting,。
the fact that Jesus,。
Jesus names demons before he casts them out.。
And I say, why does that matter?。
Just say, "Be gone."。
It's like, whoa, Jesus is like, "What is your name?"。
Why?。
Because in the Bible,。
naming is connected to authority and power.。
When you name something,。
you actually, there's a connection to power and authority.。
You have to name.。
If you can't name what's happening,。
it's just being done to you, right?。
That's basically why when I interact with Asian Americans,。
when they learn about the words of how race。
and racism is impacting them,。
they find it liberating, right?。
So in a sense,。
names give us a handle on what otherwise an elusive thing.。
And what I have done is to articulate a way。
in which to organize and expand people's vocabulary.。
Now, I teach this thing called Asian American Quadrilateral。
because like I said,。
Asian America is this ridiculously big thing,。
but we share something.。
Even if you're adoptee,。
you share some kind of an Asian heritage,。
whoever you may be.。
I mean, if you're Indian American,。
you share some kind of Asian heritage.。
So methodologically, we share something.。
Now, the details of it is very different, right?。
Asian heritage, migration experience,。
American culture, and racialization.。
Basically, what I'm trying to say is that。
if you create categories that we all share,。
that we're all speaking the same language.。
And if you can use that language。
to describe what these things are,。
what whatever is happening in your congregation,。
when you do pastoral care,。
you might say, "Well, is this really, you know,。
"like this Chinese proverb。
"in terms of how our families interact?。
"Is that what it is?。
"Or is it migration trauma?。
"Because immigrating over, it's traumatic.。
"It's not smooth.。
"Or is it just racial bullying?。
"Is that what happened to you?。
"It's complicated, right?。
"But what if you only use Chinese?。
"Oh, it's because you're Chinese.。
"That's why your family's like this."。
You see the difference?。
That's what's happening.。
So that's basically why Asian Americans。
find this so helpful.。
They say, "Oh, now I can talk about。
"maybe different things that are happening to us.。
"Maybe it's not just this."。
And the option is not,。
"Do I adopt whatever is white。
"and whatever is ancient Chinese?"。
The question is, "We have a lot more vocabulary。
"to articulate what this looks like."。
And in that sense,。
you can name and engage and interact with.。
If you can't name it, you can't theologically engage it.。
How would you wrestle with that?。
How do you critique something you can't even name?。
How do you critique Chinese?。
I mean, which part?。
What do you do?。
Now, I tell people this.。
I mean, I know it sounds so ridiculous,。
but I'll tell you, when I say this,。
a lot of Asian Americans say, "Oh, yeah.。
"That's literally how I talk."。
These are people who are in their 40s.。
Like, we're not little kids talking about.。
This is how they talk。
because they don't actually know any better, right?。
And the question is, theologically, what do we do?。
What kind of language do we have, right?。
Like I said, I tell people,。
it's not like the fact that I want to be Confucian.。
It's not like I don't want Confucianism,。
but it's there in me, and I can't get rid of it easily.。
It's just in the soup, right?。
Or maybe for me, it doesn't play a big role,。
but for my cousin's family, it's a big role.。
So I still have to know this language, right?。
The difference between Chinese and this thing。
is what I call a sledgehammer。
Think about doing cultural surgery。
with a sledgehammer.。
You know what a sledgehammer is, right?。
Now, I tell people this because I live in California,。
and you get a lot of sun, and this really happened.。
About a decade ago, I had skin cancer。
on my nose right over here.。
Like it was basal cell carcinoma.。
It's a particular kind of cancer.。
It's like a zit, so it doesn't take over,。
but they still have to cut it out.。
Thank God they had a plastic surgeon。
who uses a very fine scalpel, right?。
They didn't do Chinese on me,。
'cause I would lose my face.。
Do you see what I'm saying?。
That's what we're doing with our theology.。
We need finer tools.。
It's not like, is it Confucian or not?。
It's like, well, there's multiple things happening.。
Is it British influence?。
Is it which British influence?。
You know, we're teasing all these things out,。
and the more articulate vocabulary you have,。
the better you can engage your context.。
Now, okay, so that's basically。
what I call speaking Asian American.。
How do you speak Asian American,。
and how do we have an expansive language and vocabulary?。
And to some degree, hopefully,。
that's basically what CGSE does.。
Everybody here should understand,。
oh, yeah, you came from like, you know,。
fifth generation Christian family,。
but I'll tell you right now,。
the soup that we live in has so much kitchen gods,。
Buddhism, Confucianism,。
and we don't even think about it, but it's in you.。
And pasturally, when you deal with families,。
you still have to think about these things.。
And you have to, and you know, and it doesn't go away.。
It's not like, oh, it's gone, and now we're Christian, right?。
And I described like how,。
you think about like Harry Potter,。
it's really weird, the fact that they're still talking。
about witches and warlords.。
Like, even like modern Britain,。
it's an ancient imagination that still lingers.。
We're not gonna get rid of this thing.。
It's part of who we are.。
So we need to keep on expanding our vocabulary.。
And you have to figure out what the vocabulary is,。
and then think about what would the vocabulary when you,。
'cause I know that in CGSE,。
we have like, they have the local,。
Hong Kong regional, with Manda,。
and then we have the overseas.。
Well, the vocabulary of the local and the regional,。
the language, and then the overseas will be different.。
You might have to add certain ideas, like race, right?。
That you don't typically think about.。
'Cause I'll tell you, if you live in Canada,。
well, they don't think about race that much either,。
but they definitely experience racism, right?。
I mean, they don't have the words for it,。
but something weird is happening.。
But maybe if you don't live in Toronto,。
I mean, if you live in Toronto, I don't know if that happens.。
But if you're like, if you're living。
in some in the middle of nowhere,。
like if you live in that little bubble called Toronto.。
Okay, second point.。
Basis of contextuality.。
So if you're gonna define a context,。
you have to figure out if you have to do it well.。
If you don't do it well, it's gonna do damage,。
and people are not gonna like it, right?。
So everything contextual, if it's done terribly,。
you might as well just have。
just regular white theology at that point, right?。
But the question is,。
why are we even talking about contextuality, right?。
So, misogynist Stephen Bevan talks about the fact。
that there are external effects of the contextuality,。
like what I just talked about.。
There are these features and who we are,。
culture, race, generation, all that stuff.。
Political, social, experiential aspects。
of being human beings, right?。
And then he talks about the internal factors。
of contextuality, which I think is a true basis。
of contextuality.。
Internal is like, what he considers the theological,。
like based on what we believe is the gospel, right?。
What I'm saying is this,。
the idea of contextuality can be understood。
as a way of human interactions.。
We happen to be different people,。
therefore we have to deal with culture.。
But I say, I don't think that's a very strong argument.。
I mean, can't God just override all that, right?。
Why does it matter?。
You can say, well, that's experiential.。
But I just think that theologically speaking,。
if God can do it, then we shouldn't bother。
with culture and race and identity.。
We should say we're all Christian.。
I'm not even sure, given that,。
maybe the founders of CGST were wrong.。
We just need Westminster and same thing over here。
because we just need one thing.。
You know what I'm saying?。
Can't God just override the cultural difference?。
And a lot of people think this way.。
They're like, oh no, I'm cultural blind.。
We're all Christian, we're all human.。
We should just override these things, right?。
No, we say, oh no, our experience doesn't allow us to that.。
That's the external feature.。
But what I'm gonna say is that I think it's still weak.。
And that's why a lot of people in the world。
don't believe in it.。
I think there's an internal,。
there's a fundamental reason for this,。
and it comes from what God is like.。
God is a particular kind of God.。
The conflicting crisis in this sense。
is that there's supposed to be this one true universal God.。
But then what do you do with this idea of a God。
that engages particular people?。
Like, 'cause there's one God,。
but then there's different experiences of God.。
How does that work?。
What does that mean?。
It seems to be like a conflict, right?。
How does it get solved?。
When we think about this,。
one very common way of thinking about contextuality,。
and this is something that people talk about,。
is, oh, the gospel is incarnational.。
You might have heard this before.。
A lot of misogynists say that in every culture,。
the gospel becomes incarnate.。
Like how Jesus is born into,。
and I try to find some contextual picture of Mary.。
In the incarnation, the Word becomes flesh。
in all this different individual cultures and contexts.。
Basically, I find this argument kind of troubling.。
The reason why is because。
there's only one incarnation in the Bible.。
There's no multiple incarnations.。
Kind of odd, right?。
I mean, you can think of it as like an analogy,。
but that's all you can do.。
Theologically, properly speaking,。
there's no multiple incarnations.。
Jesus right now has like this Jewish body.。
And even though I know people like to have。
like an Asian picture of Jesus,。
Jesus never became Asian.。
Jesus never became white or black.。
Jesus is actually a Jewish man forever,。
and that connection to Israel actually matters.。
Like biblically speaking, right?。
You can't just exchange Old Testament for sutras.。
It doesn't work that way, right?。
Given this, I think how sometimes it works。
is the fact that there's this eternal Word。
that becomes flesh.。
And sometimes, if you believe in this thing,。
it almost seems as though there's actually this pure gospel。
that becomes contextualized in different contexts.。
And I think this is kind of problematic。
because often missionaries are like,。
I bring the eternal Word to this pagan land, right?。
And I'm like, well, does it work that way, though?。
There's something wrong here.。
I mean, it's helpful, right?。
The idea of becoming incarnate is really, really,。
really, really powerful, and it's really, really important.。
But that as the only metaphor。
seems to be kind of problematic.。
I'm not sure if it really works.。
In Asian American context, I think,。
I think sometimes our experience in bodies。
ends up just being like a kernel and not the real thing.。
Like the kernel is this universal thing, in a sense.。
So what's the other, right?。
There are other, my colleague, Amos Young,。
who's a Pentecostal theologian, talks about this thing.。
He talks about this idea, the fact that,。
you know, the idea of spirit being poured on our flesh.。
And I think, as an Asian American,。
I see this thing and I say, well,。
it talks about languages, and it talks about pluralism.。
But I think, I'm thinking about, okay,。
cultural, linguistic, yes, but Asian American identity。
is a racial identity.。
Like it's kind of a weird thing.。
How does that cover it?。
'Cause we're talking about languages here, right?。
So it's helpful, but there's something else missing.。
What I propose is this idea of a covenantal.。
Here's what I mean.。
The example is this.。
God fundamentally is a God。
who actually interacts with us back and forth.。
And who you are matters to God。
as much as us mattering to God,。
which is really strange, but this is how the Bible works.。
God wants an I and thou,。
in terms of how Buber would talk about it,。
you know, German, a Jewish philosopher, Martin Buber,。
would say, God wants an I and thou relationship.。
As opposed to what?。
Well, I and I.。
Like God just says, well,。
I'm the only one that's important.。
Biblically, even though sometimes it sounds very spiritual,。
that's not really true.。
God says, oh, who you are actually matters.。
And you, biblically, can argue with God,。
you can wrestle with God.。
It's all part of biblical tradition。
because where you are and what you experience。
matters to God, right?。
It's not like a I and it, we're not just an object.。
We just don't follow what God says。
'cause there will be angels.。
Angels don't protest at all.。
Angels never fight with God.。
But people of God, because they're called Israel,。
what does Israel mean, right?。
People wrestle with God.。
And I always say, well, why would you name your people。
like wrestlers with God?。
Why don't you say people who submit,。
you know, be nice, good kids, right?。
No, people who wrestle and engage with God.。
That actually matters.。
Who you are matters.。
So when you see the Bible, you realize,。
when we have Moses, God has a very particular call。
for Moses in the Egyptian empire.。
God has a particular call for Daniel in the Egyptian empire,。
you know, Babylonian empire, or Esther in Persian empire,。
or Mary and Paul in the Roman empire.。
And these calls are not interchangeable, right?。
They're not interchangeable.。
They're just for them.。
Or in this sense, we have four gospel writers,。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.。
They're all men, they're all Jews,。
but they're very different.。
Who they are matters, right?。
In this sense, this is, for me,。
the strongest argument for contextuality.。
That it's not just the fact。
that God's just telling you something.。
God says, oh, I see you.。
And who you are matters to me,。
so I would tell you something different。
than what I would tell President Bernard, right?。
Like, you know, he was like, oh no, that's your call.。
This call is not your call, right?。
And because your family and your background's different,。
I'm gonna minister this way,。
which is actually just a good parent.。
I have three daughters.。
I do not tell them the same thing,。
because you literally can't.。
They're different ages,。
and you have to love them differently.。
The only way you can love them fairly。
is to treat them differently.。
You know what I'm saying, right?。
The only way to be completely fair。
is to see who they are,。
and to say, well, it's gonna be slightly different,。
because if I talk the same way。
as I talk to my first kid to a second kid,。
she would just get crushed.。
I cannot do that.。
It does not work that way.。
That's what God's doing.。
That's contextuality.。
God is saying, you matter, your background matter,。
your political background matters,。
your family background matters, all that,。
and I'm interacting with you back and forth.。
That's the basis of contextuality, what God is like, right?。
In wrapping this up,。
I think the dangers of contextuality.。
This is a golden calf, okay?。
People always ask me, every question,。
like whenever I lecture on this,。
people always say, well, a professor。
isn't dealing with context dangerous?。
And I tell them, yes, it is, extremely.。
It's extremely dangerous.。
Can it be correct?。
It's extremely dangerous.。
Can it be corrupted?。
Oh, absolutely.。
If you're gonna start dealing with confusion or Buddhism,。
I mean, that's all dangerous, dangerous, dangerous.。
Syncretism, you know, can be like, you know,。
if you're gonna deal with political stuff,。
political, ideological takeover, you know, co-option,。
Babylonian captivity of every sort.。
It's extremely dangerous, right?。
Yeah, it's dangerous.。
But what is our option?。
What is our option?。
There's this idea, this is Geneva, okay?。
Now I'll describe it a little bit.。
This is a concept called ex-nomination。
by this French post-structuralist philosopher,。
Roland Barthes, he talks about this idea of ex-nomination.。
Like what I said before, the very big,。
earlier on, beginning of the lecture,。
that sometimes people are contextual,。
but you don't know they are, right?。
So what I'm saying is this contextual thing。
has already happened, right?。
Like in the US, there are people who are like,。
well, I don't believe in contextual anything,。
I just need my Bible and my gun.。
I'm like, nobody in the world thinks like you.。
The Bible and the gun idea is your idea,。
it's a contextual idea.。
That is a bizarre idea and a heretical idea.。
But they're like, well, this is what the Bible,。
but where, where are the verse, right?。
They don't think about the context,。
but the context has already happened.。
You don't have a choice.。
Is the contextual dangerous?。
Of course.。
If you don't wanna do it, it's still dangerous, right?。
So what are you gonna do, copy Reform theology and worship?。
This is, okay, they have this monument。
called the International Monument of the Reformation。
in Geneva, Switzerland.。
This is William Farrell, John Calvin, Beza, and John Knox.。
Five meters long.。
Five meters long, right?。
I mean, you're worshiping these people.。
You think, I know it's uncontextualized and hasn't happened,。
it's already happened, people.。
If you don't think about it explicitly,。
it's already happened.。
You have to see the fact。
that you were already swimming in water.。
That's my point.。
Is it dangerous?。
Absolutely.。
Is it dangerous if you don't do it?。
We're already in danger.。
Your gospel already has already been corrupted。
by Buddhism and Confucianism and capitalism.。
'Cause you know, it's Hong Kong.。
It's already happened.。
If you don't think about it, you don't have a choice.。
You already have a corrupted gospel.。
I mean, I'm American, you know, we have our problems.。
Like, I left US on Sunday night,。
and then 'cause of the flight,。
there was no Monday, Monday disappeared.。
Monday was inauguration.。
(audience laughing)。
And then I landed on Tuesday.。
So what's weird is that I'm gonna land。
in a different country than I left,。
if you know what I mean.。
I'll just leave it at that.。
I'll end this with this final thought.。
The reason, one of the reasons。
why I like the reform tradition。
is because it's so self-critical.。
Right?。
It's self-critical.。
The whole idea is you have to keep on critiquing yourself.。
Right?。
This is a kind of a reformed kind of a model, right?。
Ecclesia Riformata, like church that's reformed,。
is Semper Riformata, right?。
Continue reforming, Secunda Verdi, by the word of God.。
We're just gonna wrestle with God.。
There is no place that's safe.。
We only are safe wrestling with God.。
That's the choice we have.。
But we have to do it well, and not the Chinesey,。
because that's not gonna help anybody.。
And we have to know the fact that it's rooted。
in the very heart of what God is like.。
And then we must continue to wrestle with God.。
And that's our call for us.。
Thank you.。
(audience applauding)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
