Brothers and sisters in Christ, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to tonight's public lecture。
jointly organized by the China Graduate School of Theology and the Langham Foundation Hong。
Kong, featuring our distinguished guest speaker tonight, Reverend Dr. Munta Isaac.。
My name is Simon Cheung, a member of the Old Testament Faculty of Teaching at this school.。
It's my honor tonight to introduce our speaker to you.。
Dr. Isaac is currently the academic dean at Bethlehem Bible College, an evangelical seminary。
founded by Palestinian Christians in 1979.。
As the seminary, he is also the director of the seminary choir, and over the dinner, he。
told us that he used to compose music for the choir to sing, so he is richly talented。
in music as well.。
He's also the current director of the conference called Christ at the Checkpoint.。
May I quote from Paul Alexander, who edited a volume of the essays presented at this conference。
in 2010, to see how he described this event.。
He begins to quote, "The Palestinian Christians who organized the conference are motivated。
by their love for God, their love for Israelis, and their love for fellow Palestinians."。
The conference is described as a labor of love of those who prayerfully seek justice。
and reconciliation done among the Palestinian and Israeli communities in the land of constant。
conflicts.。
The ministry of Musalaha, so it is called, and Dr. Isaac is actively involved in this。
work.。
Dr. Isaac did his first theological training at Westminster Theological Seminary, and later。
on continued with his doctorate studies at Oxford Center of Mission Studies.。
He wrote his thesis under two supervisors, one from Oxford and one from Cambridge, and。
completed his studies in 2014, and with remarkable and admirable efficiency, published it in。
2015 under the title, "From Land to Lands, from Eden to the Renewed Earth, a Price Center。
for Biblical Theology and the Promised Land."。
A sample of it I'm holding in my hand, and there are only a few copies left downstairs。
at the bookstore, so be quick to grab one after the lecture.。
May I quote again from another of Dr. Isaac's essay, which begins with this observation.。
He says, "Palestinian Christians have struggled for many years with the Old Testament in general,。
and with the theology of the land in particular."。
Clearly enough, Dr. Isaac's work tackles right at the heart of the most difficult problem。
of Christian faith faced by his Palestinian people.。
Tonight, he'll share with us his insights gleaned from his studies and his ministry。
under the topic, "Towards a Shared Land Theology, a Palestinian Christian Reading of the Land。
Promises."。
His talk will be followed by a Q&A section immediately afterward.。
Without further ado, shall we welcome Reverend Dr. Muntir Isaac with our warmest applause?。
[applause]。
Thank you very much for this introduction.。
For a while, I didn't recognize myself.。
I really appreciate that kind introduction, and thank you for coming this evening to listen。
to my presentation on the theology of the land.。
I've been in Hong Kong for a week, and really we've been overwhelmed with your kindness,。
your generosity, and hospitality.。
And I want to thank you again from the bottom of my heart for all the support you've shown。
me personally and my family, and also the church in Palestine as well.。
Yes, the title of my talk is "Towards a Shared Land Theology," and clearly the theology of。
the land is something we have struggled with as Palestinian Christians for many, many years.。
The creation of the State of Israel created a dilemma for Palestinian Christians.。
Today we live in a reality that is pretty much characterized by division, by separation,。
and by a dispute over land.。
More than often that dispute was violent and resulted in clashes, attacks.。
And in my very young life, I've witnessed so many uprisings and demonstrations and fights。
over that land.。
Today if you come to Palestine and Israel, you will be struck by the separation wall。
that divides the two people, a physical wall that reflects a more deeper reality of spiritual。
and psychological separation between two peoples.。
And just to give you an idea why this topic, the theology of the land, was or has been。
a challenging one for Palestinian Christians, as you quoted, I always like to begin my talk。
with referencing to the story of a friend of mine, a church member, who owns land that。
inherited, he inherited and his family from their grandparents, a Palestinian Christian.。
This land is under threat of being confiscated by Jewish settlers, supported by the Israeli。
military.。
And in their effort to keep their land, they fight in court and they maintain papers that。
all prove their possession of the land for centuries, papers that date back all the way。
to the days of the Ottoman Empire.。
And one day when the Jewish settlers arrived to their land, trying to uproot some trees。
and bulldoze their way, my friend stopped them and said, "Wait a minute, this is our。
land, we have papers."。
Jewish settlers responded, one of them by holding a Bible from his pocket and saying,。
"This is our land, we have papers as well."。
And this tells you how the Bible is used today in Palestine and Israel, but try at the same。
time to imagine what does that make to my Palestinian Christian friend and to the Palestinian。
Christian community.。
This is the Bible we worship from, this is the Bible we meet God in, this is the source。
of our faith.。
And all of a sudden that Bible became a threat to us.。
And that's why many Palestinian Christians today struggle with the Old Testament, with。
the promises, with the story of Israel.。
And that's why someone like me decided to spend my PhD time working on that theme, the。
theology of the land.。
The theme continues to be disputed today, even many Muslims claim that the land belongs。
to them by divine claim.。
Not all, and of course not all Jews do what these Jewish settlers do, so don't understand。
from what I'm saying that all Jews are like this or all Muslims like this, but this reflects。
ideologies that exist today and many times these are the loudest voices that we hear。
and most certainly the most violent voices that we hear.。
Yet what interests us most today is the fact that many Christians hold strong beliefs of。
the land.。
And as I often say, with very little knowledge of what is happening on the ground and very。
little knowledge of the consequences of those beliefs.。
A very general theme is applied on these Christians, Christian Zionism, and basically Christian。
Zionism is the belief that any strand among Christianity that supports Israel for theological。
reasons.。
Christian Zionism is the default position of many Christians today and of most evangelical。
Christians.。
And to give you an idea of some of the presuppositions of Christian Zionism, many believe that if。
you bless Israel, God will bless you, and that if you stand against Israel, God will。
curse you.。
This is based on one interpretation to Genesis 12, 1 to 3, and of course I will present in。
my talk an alternative interpretation to that verse, which actually speaks about Abraham,。
the people of Israel, or their seed, but that's a different issue.。
They also assume that God gave the land to the Jewish people as an eternal possession.。
And as such, the Jews have a divine right to the land today.。
And notice with me the language of divine right, the language of eternal possession,。
which is very common used.。
And again, try to understand or try to put yourself in the place of a Palestinian or。
a Palestinian Christian when we hear claims like that.。
When we hear that someone else have a divine right to our land, what does that make us?。
It immediately puts us in this strange position of standing in opposition to God.。
And so today we continue to see debates among Christians such as that, do Jews have a divine。
right to Israel's land?。
And commonly the answer is yes, because they are the descendants of biblical Israel, and。
many people just draw a straight line from biblical Israel to the modern state of Israel。
with sometimes very tragic consequences on the Palestinian community.。
And again, this puts us in a crisis as Palestinian Christians.。
Christian Zionism is more than just a theological belief, because it's also a political movement,。
a political movement that lobbies on behalf of the state of Israel and funds the state。
of Israel with hundreds of millions of dollars every year.。
Some of it goes to the building of settlements that are illegal to international law, and。
many of them even are not willing to support mission among the Jewish people, but are willing。
to invest millions of dollars to the state of Israel.。
Of course, as I said, that theology, theology of Christian Zionism is a theology that is。
very problematic to Palestinian Christians, because it is a theology that marginalized。
us, often ignored us.。
You know, when you speak that Jews have a divine right to Israel's land, I always ask,。
so what about the Palestinian?。
What about the Palestinian population?。
And that question is never or seldom addressed by Christian Zionists.。
They always pretend as if we don't exist.。
A very old slogan that was promoted by the Zionist movement and by Christian Zionists。
is a land without a people for a people without a land.。
Talking about our land as a land without a people.。
And in that sense, we are pretty much invisible to them or nonexistent.。
And in that I always say we have been dehumanized as Palestinians simply by that tradition.。
And so what I would like to present with you today is a summary of my book.。
It's 400 pages.。
It's very ambitious to try to do so in the next 40 minutes or so.。
In what I called a shared land, a place in which we read the Bible and ask the question,。
is there a place for both people on the land?。
What is the place of land in the biblical story of salvation?。
I decided to study that theme and look carefully to scripture, and not simply ignore the Bible。
and say justice matters or human rights is more important.。
But to see really, is it true that our God, the God of the good news of salvation, the。
God who sent Jesus to die on the cross, is it true that he has promised our land to someone。
else and that we have no right in it today?。
And so I wanted to be faithful to our Christian heritage and study the Old Testament and the。
New Testament and look at the question on the land.。
And with that, I want to begin by looking at the Old Testament and asking some questions。
in dialogue with Christian Zionism.。
But really, these questions should guide us, as you will see, to understand the whole picture。
of salvation, the biblical story of redemption as we encounter it in scripture.。
These questions are whose land is it to begin with?。
What were the boundaries of the promised land?。
What is Israel or who is Israel in the Old Testament?。
Were the promises of the land unconditional or was it different?。
And the question that I feel very few people ask, and I try to address this in my book,。
why a land to begin with?。
Why did God promise Abraham a land?。
What's the purpose behind that promise?。
So now we go in with a journey trying to answer these questions from scripture.。
The first one is easy.。
I always tell my student, you don't need a PhD to answer the first question.。
The land belongs to God.。
It's God's land, okay?。
God created the earth and he owns it.。
It's his, okay?。
The earth is the Lord's, as the psalmist declared.。
To him belongs the heaven and heaven and heavens.。
The earth with all that is in it.。
We all belong to God.。
Our lands belong to God.。
The whole earth belongs to God.。
And in particular, what really matters here is the promised land in particular in the。
story of Israel.。
God declared in Leviticus 25 that the land shall not be sold in perpetuity, for the land。
is mine.。
In other words, Israel, when I give you the land, it is not yours to do with it whatever。
you want.。
It remains my land.。
It's a very crucial basic point that we should start with.。
The land that God gives never becomes our possession.。
And if you know Leviticus 25, you know that this verse, "the land is mine," came in the。
context of the Jubilee.。
And the Jubilee is basically a reminder to Israel that the land is given to you for the。
benefit of the community.。
You should distribute it equally among you.。
Every seven years, you let the land to rest, and that's a biblical mandate.。
Not only that, in the year, in the 50th year, after 50 years, if some of you became rich,。
some of you became poor, some of you had more land than the others, some of you became slave。
to others, you press the restart button and start from zero again.。
Redistribute the land equally so that we make sure no one is poor, no one is rich, so that。
we make sure no one owns the whole land and very few people own little land.。
And God reminds Israel here that even if you become rich and own land, it's not yours.。
The land belongs ultimately to God.。
This is a reminder to Israel that she does not own the land, for the land, as I said,。
belongs ultimately to God.。
Israel is not free to do with the land whatever she wants or to claim eternal possession of。
it.。
These land Sabbath laws remind Israel that the land is not from Israel but is a gift。
to Israel and that the land is not fully given over for Israel's self-indulgence.。
This is a crucial point to begin with.。
My second point, what are the boundaries of the promised land and why?。
Interestingly, in scripture we find different descriptions of the borders of the land.。
It's never fixed.。
And the first promise to Abraham is actually much more than what is known today as Palestine。
and Israel.。
That is very often ignored.。
We assume that the promised land is modern day Palestine and Israel, whereas it's much。
more than that.。
The promised land, as you see from the picture to Abraham, is from the river, from the Nile。
to the Euphrates.。
And so sometimes jokingly I tell Christian Zionists, if you want to use scripture, at。
least be consistent and argue that Israel today should wage war with Jordan, Lebanon,。
Syria, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, and Egypt to claim the promised land.。
Otherwise don't use scripture.。
But not only that, even in history, in the Old Testament when Israel actually entered。
the land during the days of Joshua, two and a half tribes stayed in the east of Jordan,。
what is today Jordan and even parts of Lebanon.。
And during Solomon's reign the land extended way up in the north.。
We've always had these fluid boundaries and we need to ask why.。
And it is here that I rely most on actually Jewish scholars who argued from ancient Near。
East traditions and texts that in the old days when people wanted to describe boundaries。
and describe boundaries from water boundaries to other water boundaries, they were actually。
describing the whole universe, the whole world as they knew it.。
A Jewish scholar by the name of Neelie Vazana says that the promised reflected spatial merisms。
and is not to be understood literally, nor should it be translated and transformed into。
borderlines or maps, but the promised land to Abraham is a promise of world dominion.。
They are referring to universal rule.。
And actually it makes sense because if you think of it, that is the world as Abraham。
knew it.。
In fact, second temple Jewish traditions also believe that the promise to Abraham was a。
promise of the universe.。
I would show you later that even Paul believed that the promise to Abraham wasn't a promise。
of one particular land, but a promise that he would inherit the cosmos, the universe.。
And actually we should see it because when God called Abraham in Genesis 12, 1 to 3,。
the climax of that calling to Abraham was the statement that through him, through Abraham,。
if you know the Bible, Genesis 12, 3, through you, Abraham, all the families of the earth。
shall find blessing.。
And so the promise that Abraham will become a great nation implies both numerous seed。
and land expansion, and it must be understood as being subservient to God's principle desire。
to bless all the families of the earth.。
Palestinian theologian Yohanna Ketanashu puts it this way, "It seems that the land of Abraham。
is not going to have fixed borders.。
It will continue to expand, thus increasing in size both territorially and demographically.。
The land of Abraham will continue to extend until it is equal to the whole earth."。
And so if we see it this way, Canaan or modern day Palestine of Israel becomes only the first。
phase, the beginning.。
Jerusalem is only the beginning of that expansion.。
For the God we believe in is the God of the whole earth, not only the God of one particular。
land.。
This is not something that is exclusive to the Abrahamic tradition.。
When we consider the messianic prophecies, the land of the Messiah, for example in Psalm。
2, 8, one of the most important verses in the theology of the land, a strategic verse。
in my study, there God says to the king of Israel, "I will give you the nations as your。
inheritance and the ends of the earth as your possession."。
That's the land of the Messiah, not just one piece of land.。
We see this in other Psalms.。
We see it in many other prophecies like in Daniel and Micah where the Messiah shall rule。
until his rule will extend to the ends of the earth.。
See it's never limited to one piece of land.。
That's why my book, I argue that our right understanding of the theology of the land。
should be not about the promised land, but the promised earth.。
And I hope that by the end of my lecture you begin to see even Hong Kong as a promised。
earth, as part of the promised land, if we abide by God's covenant, as I will argue.。
The theology of the land has a universal thrust.。
Through God's servant, Israel, Adam, later the Messiah, the land should expand until。
it reaches the ends of the earth.。
And actually what's interesting is that in the Hebrew language, the word for land and。
earth is the same, haaretz.。
Okay?。
And I wonder if that is intentional.。
So the theology of the land is ultimately the theology of the earth.。
Are you with me so far?。
Very good.。
So we asked whose land and we asked what are the boundaries of the land.。
We're still in the Old Testament.。
My next point is about the covenanted land.。
Were the promises really unconditional as some argue?。
Were the land given as a possession, meaning it is yours once and for all and this can。
never change?。
The word forever, eternal, does it apply here on the theology of the land?。
Chris Wright reminds us, the head of Langham, that it is insufficient simply to say that。
the Lord gave the land to Israel without taking into consideration the context of the gift,。
which was the covenant relationship and its reciprocal commitments.。
The land was an integral part not only of the Lord's faithfulness to Israel, but also。
of Israel's covenantal obligation to the Lord.。
We cannot understand the land without understanding the covenant.。
And when you read the story of Israel, many, many times, and I can actually spend the next。
30 minutes reading to you verses from the Old Testament that sets conditions to maintaining。
the land.。
I will just choose a few.。
Leviticus 18 is a very clear one and has a special meaning, actually.。
The whole chapter is thinking about the sins of the people who were living in the land。
before of Israel and then God tells Israel, remember now Israel is getting ready to enter。
the land, "Do not make yourselves unclean by any of these things.。
For by all these, the nations I am driving out before you have become unclean.。
And the land became unclean so that I punish its iniquity and the land vomited out its。
inhabitants.。
But you shall keep my status and my rules and do none of these abominations, either。
the native or the stranger who sojourns among you."。
Very important statement.。
For the people of the land who were before you did all of these abominations so that。
the land became unclean, lest the land vomit you out when you make it unclean, as it vomited。
out the nation that was before you.。
Strong warnings, not just to Israel, but to anybody who lives in the land.。
The land does not tolerate unholiness.。
The land does not tolerate sin.。
And notice how here this text equals Israel with the nations that were before her in the。
land.。
Did you notice that?。
And not only that, gives the same commandments to the Israelites and to the strangers who。
live in the land.。
In other words, the land does not discriminate.。
The land treats all of its inhabitants equally.。
And you need to pay attention to these verses because later I will argue that what applied。
to the promised land actually should apply to any land.。
The land does not tolerate ungodliness.。
And this is a very key point for the theology of the land.。
In Deuteronomy 16, 20, the condition that is set before the Israelites for keeping the。
land is nothing but justice.。
Justice and only justice you shall follow that you may live and inherit the land that。
the Lord your God is giving you.。
Cannot be said more explicit or more clear.。
A clear condition to inheriting the land is justice.。
If there is no justice, you have no right to live in the land.。
That's what the covenant is about.。
There are no free gifts here.。
There are no gifts with no conditions or no strings attached.。
God holds us accountable.。
And I wish I have time to go through the whole doctrine of election because oftentimes we。
confuse election with privilege, whereas election is in fact about responsibility and duty.。
If you are elected, that means you are a servant to the others.。
That's the real meaning of election.。
And we have turned it over and over as the people of God into some sort of a privilege,。
whereas it's about serving.。
Think of Jesus, the servant, the chosen servant.。
Now of course if you know the history of Israel in the Bible, they lost the land in exile。
because of disobedience, because they broke the covenant often and often.。
And after the exile, we have a very interesting verse in Ezekiel 33 which reminds Israel that。
they are still obligated to obey God if they wish to have any chance of returning to the。
land.。
And in that incident, the people of Israel actually try to depend on ethnicity.。
They say, "Abraham is our father.。
He was one.。
He inherited the land.。
We are many.。
We too shall inherit the land."。
They think it's this simple.。
And it's amazing what God says.。
"Therefore say to them, 'Thus says the Lord God, 'You eat flesh with the blood and lift。
up your eyes to your idols and shed blood.。
Shall you then possess the land?。
You rely on the sword.。
You commit abominations, and each of you defiles his neighbor's wife.。
Shall you then possess the land?'"。
Strong, clear warnings.。
And it's here where I want to emphasize that no other sin in the Old Testament was tied。
more directly with being expelled from the land than the sin of socioeconomic injustice.。
Chris Wright puts it this way, "The prophets simply would not allow Israel to get away。
with claiming the blessing and protection of the covenant relationship for their society。
while trampling on the socioeconomic demands of that relationship."。
The most emphasized sin in terms of quantity of verses, if you want to put it this way,。
we find in the warnings what leads to losing the land, nothing more in Scripture, believe。
me, I studied all these verses, than the sin of socioeconomic injustice.。
And that leads me, and I spend a lot of time in the book talking about this, to discuss。
some technical terms that we used and continue to use in our theological traditions, sometimes。
without reflecting on their meanings.。
One of them is the word in Hebrew, "la'olam," in English translated "forever," because。
oftentimes we think it's forever and ending, whereas if you study the word in the Old Testament,。
many many times things are declared that they will last forever, whereas they actually don't。
last forever.。
The Aaron was supposed to be a priest forever and his descendants, the temple was supposed。
to stand forever, David as a king forever, and so on.。
And one of the most striking examples about that word forever, though not related to the。
theology of the land directly but actually gives us a very clear indication of that term,。
is in 1 Samuel 2 30, talking about Eli, the priest back then.。
"Therefore the Lord, the God of Israel, declares to Eli, 'I promise that your house and the。
house of your father should go in and out before me forever.'"。
Clear, no dispute.。
Yet the next sentence, "But now the Lord declares, 'Far be it from me, for those who honor me。
I will honor, and those who despise me shall be lightly esteemed.'"。
And it seems that even the word forever is here conditioned to obedience to God and honoring。
God.。
Another word that we're discussing is the word "nachalai" in Hebrew, which is often translated。
"inheritance," because many times people confuse it with possession.。
Whereas I would argue that the right interpretation of that verse is that it is a mandate, never。
a possession.。
Brueggemann puts it this way, the renowned Old Testament scholar, "Land with God brings。
responsibility.。
The same land that is gift freely given is tasked sharply put.。
Landed Israel is under mandate."。
Chris Wright puts it, "Like all tenants, therefore, Israelites were accountable to。
their divine landlord for proper treatment of what was ultimately his property."。
That is the right meaning of land.。
It's never our possession, as I argued in my first point.。
It's always a mandate, and that's why how we treat the land, what we do in the land,。
how we treat our neighbors in the land matters to God.。
And because it's his land, he is free to take it from us whenever he wants.。
The Old Testament introduces us to this conflict, to this concept of a land that comes with。
conditions.。
On the one hand, it wants to underscore the sovereignty of God and his gracious nature,。
evident by his giving of the land.。
And on the other, it wants at the same time to underscore the ethical and moral nature。
of God and to show how this demands nothing but total allegiance from the people of God.。
My next point, I hope you're with me.。
This is interesting.。
Very good.。
Who is Israel?。
Sometimes, you know, again, we take these things for granted, but we fail to ask, "Was。
Abraham an Israelite?"。
Was Ruth an Israelite?。
Think of that.。
She was a Moabite.。
Ruth is actually a very interesting figure because throughout the book of Ruth, every。
time she is mentioned, she is Ruth the Moabite.。
Every time.。
It wants to remind us she's a stranger.。
And at the beginning of the book, she declares to her mother-in-law, "Your people are my。
people and your God is my God."。
And she becomes part of the people of God.。
Interesting.。
Was Solomon an Israelite?。
Remember, the mother of Solomon wasn't a Jew, wasn't part of the people of God.。
David married Beth Sheba.。
And when we study scripture, we realize that it's full of intermarriages.。
Judah married a Canaanite.。
Joseph an Egyptian.。
Moses a Midianite.。
And Solomon, well, we know.。
The Bible is full of intermarriages.。
That's my point.。
Judges 3 says that the people of Israel lived among these nations, and it names them, and。
their daughters they took to themselves for wives, and their own daughters they gave to。
their sons, and they served their gods.。
And think sometimes we assume this clear ethnicity thing that runs through scripture.。
But only that, in the book of Esther, it declares at the end of the book, after God rescues。
the people of Israel, "And many from the peoples of the country declared themselves Jews, for。
fear of Jews had fallen on them."。
In scripture, people could become Jews.。
In other words, it's a matter of faith.。
Becoming part of Israel in the Old Testament wasn't exclusively dependent on ethnicity.。
And please try to understand what I'm saying.。
I am not denying that Jews existed over the centuries as a distinct people or religion.。
Nor am I negating Jews' right to define themselves as a people as they understand their tradition.。
I am simply looking at the Old Testament and asking, is it by ethnicity alone?。
Is it by DNA alone?。
And can anybody really claim a clear DNA from Abraham to today, given all the intermarriages。
that I explained, and then claim possession of the land?。
And if it's really about faith, as I am arguing here, and as I will argue strongly in the。
New Testament, don't we all believe in the God of Israel when we believe in Jesus, the。
Jewish Messiah?。
Hold that point in mind, because we will definitely come back to it.。
My final question in the Old Testament section, before moving to the New Testament, is why。
a land?。
And it's here I want to refer again to my book, where I began my study of the land not。
in Genesis 12 with the promise of the land to Abraham, but rather with Genesis 1, 2,。
and 3, the creation narrative and the giving of the Garden of Eden.。
And there I believe we have a picture of the first promised land, the Garden of Eden.。
It was the first land.。
And the sin resulted in death, and that death actually was expulsion from the Garden of。
Eden.。
That's the first exile.。
If we learn anything from Eden, we learn that we are accountable before God for our actions,。
and that the beautiful gift of Eden could be taken from us.。
Yet not only that, Eden was supposed to be a blessing to the rest of the creation, because。
in Genesis 1, God tells Adam and Eve, "Be fruitful," I think I have it, "and multiply。
and fill the earth and subdue it."。
It's the notion of the kingdom.。
And have dominion over the fish and the birds and the heavens and everything on earth.。
And if that is supposed to happen, that's what Adam and Eve are supposed to do, and。
they were located in Eden, then this gives us an idea about Eden as a center of the universe。
that is supposed to bless the rest of creation.。
That is the paradigm we have in scripture.。
And as such, we see Eden as the first promised land.。
We also see Adam as the first Israel, or Israel as the second Adam.。
All part of a process to restore what was lost in Eden.。
And so I argue in my book that the whole idea of Abraham being chosen and given a land is。
to restore what was lost in Eden, the first land, with the goal of redeeming all of creation,。
with the goal of redeeming the creation of God, redeeming all of the earth.。
And that's really the goal from the verse to Abraham.。
In the midst of Genesis 12, 1 to 3, God tells Abraham, "You be a blessing."。
It's a commandment.。
Actually, some translation has it, "You shall be a blessing."。
I don't know what it is in Chinese, but really it is a commandment.。
Be a blessing.。
God wanted to use Abraham to fix, to restore what was lost in Eden.。
The goal was not Abraham and his family.。
The goal was not Canaan.。
But really, God placed Abraham in one land.。
God chose one man and his family and placed them in one particular land with that goal。
in mind, so that in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.。
And that's why Abraham's name was chosen from the father of one nation to the father of。
many nations.。
From the beginning, there is this universal dimension in the calling of Abraham.。
We see it also in the calling of Israel.。
Exodus 12, 19, 5 to 6.。
When God chose Israel, he reminded her that, "You are my treasured possession among all。
peoples for all the earth is mine."。
Not just one piece of land.。
"All the earth is mine and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and holy nation."。
The whole idea of priests is mediators, so we always ask, "Priests among whom?"。
So Israel was clearly the mediator between God and the rest of humanity and between humanity。
and God.。
Again, from the beginning, there is this universal scope.。
And so the story of Israel is supposed to be a paradigm for all the nations on the earth.。
And Israel was supposed to be the means towards the restoration and redemption of the rest。
of God's creation.。
I believe that through Israel, God wanted to create an ideal society and model to other。
nations ideal kingdom values.。
And that's why God gave Israel the law, the Ten Commandments, the laws about the Jubilee。
I mentioned.。
Israel was supposed to be this ideal society and Israel was supposed to be the means by。
which the whole universe is redeemed.。
And again, that points us to the universal elements of the promised land, promised earth.。
And really, when we read the prophecies in particular, we see this universal and inclusive。
nature of restoration.。
One of the very clear elements in biblical prophecy is how inclusive it is and how universal。
it is.。
For example, Psalm 87 envisions a Zion which is multi-ethnic, where people from all nations。
are born in it and are registers in it and are citizens of Zion.。
It is the city of God and not simply a city of one nation.。
Ezekiel 47 has one of the most striking statements in the theology of the land and again, one。
of the most ignored statements about the theology of the land.。
When God tells Israel in the restoration, "You shall allot it as an inheritance for。
yourself about the land and for the sojourners who reside among you.。
They shall be to you as native-born children of Israel."。
This is the equality here between Israelites and non-Israelites.。
Everyone inherits in the new creation.。
Everyone inherits in the restoration.。
The same in Isaiah 56, when it speaks about the temple, that my house shall be called。
a house of prayer for all peoples.。
A scripture that Jesus quoted when he entered the temple, when he saw the separation between。
Jews and Gentiles in the temple, that angered him and argued, "My house shall be called。
a house of prayer for all peoples."。
Isaiah 49 is another example about the Messiah who is a light, not just for Israel, but a。
light for the nations, that the salvation of the servant of God might reach to the end。
of the earth.。
A very important element.。
And so in conclusion to the Old Testament part, the giving of a land as part of the。
project of redemption highlights that God is committed to his created order and to the。
redemption of human society.。
Redemption in the Old Testament is not merely about individuals, personal piety, or spiritual。
existential experiences.。
It is about redeeming whole societies on earth, and ultimately the whole of humanity.。
It is an earthly phenomenon.。
That's a very important thing that the theology of the land in the Old Testament teaches us.。
So you survived the first part.。
I hope you're still awake.。
I'm glad you're still awake.。
And I will devote the next few minutes to talking about the land in the New Testament.。
And I spent half of my book talking about the land in the New Testament.。
Very few people actually find the theme of the land in the New Testament, and I beg to。
differ and I hope I was able to show that actually Jesus and Paul spoke a lot about。
the land.。
The problem is that we miss it because we have preconceived ideas about the land as。
exclusively to one people and not as the earth to all peoples.。
And you see, once we see those themes that I establish in the Old Testament clearly,。
understand them, we see it, we see them come over and over in the New Testament.。
Yet I begin with the question and observation.。
Is the New Testament reading of the Old Testament matter?。
And I ask this because so many times I encounter Christians who read the prophecies of the。
land, read the prophecies to Israel in the Old Testament as if the New Testament was。
not written, as if the coming of Jesus did not alter things.。
I just, what I call the Jesus event, his life, death, and resurrection didn't change the。
course of history.。
We cannot do that.。
And I want to quote from a famous New Testament scholar, James Dunn, who says that unless。
a New Testament theology both recognizes and brings out the degree to which the New Testament。
writers saw themselves as in continuity with the revelation of the Old Testament and as。
at least in some measure continuing or completing that revelation, it can hardly provide a faithful。
presentation of what they understood themselves to be about.。
New Testament authors, when they wrote, they understood themselves as completing the revelation。
of the Old Testament.。
This is a very, very important observation, and I always challenge my students.。
How does the New Testament begin and why?。
Is it by coincidence or just, you know, telling us address of someone or who is he that tells。
us the, you know, the gospel of Jesus, son of David, son of Abraham?。
This is a theologically loaded statement.。
Matthew is telling us this Jesus is the seed of Abraham and the seed of David.。
He is the continuation of the story of Israel.。
Where Israel begins, Abraham, he has two children, Isaac, Ishmael.。
Isaac is the chosen seed, the holy seed, I call it.。
Isaac had two children, Jacob, Esau.。
Jacob is the holy seed, and so on in the Old Testament.。
Now Matthew comes with this clear statement.。
That line now reach a pivotal point.。
Jesus, the Jew, the son of Abraham, the son of David.。
We should not miss that when we read the Old Testament.。
Jesus himself spoke about the land at least twice, more than that, in my book.。
But the most two explicit ones are in Matthew 5, 5 when he says, "The meek shall inherit。
the earth or the land," again, depending on our translation of the Greek word "ge" which。
could mean land and earth.。
And he quotes Psalm 37.。
Psalm 37 is a psalm about the land and about the qualities of those who have the right。
to inherit the land, reminding us again that you cannot take the land promises for granted.。
But you have to obey God in the covenant.。
Among these qualifications, justice, care of the poor, and here Jesus quotes the meekness。
verse.。
Let us not forget the context in which Jesus said these statements, a context that was。
politically charged, a context in which people were disputing how to redeem the land from。
the hands of the Romans.。
And Jesus comes with this radical idea about the kingdom of God and about the meek who。
inherit that kingdom.。
Yet probably one of the most important verses in the New Testament about the promises of。
the land is in Matthew 28, 18.。
After Jesus is risen and after he was vindicated as the Son of God through his resurrection,。
before he ascends to heaven, he says, "All authority in heaven and on earth has been。
given to me."。
And I see this as a statement by Jesus, the new Israelite, the faithful Israelite saying,。
"I have received the land as my inheritance again on behalf of Israel.。
The land was restored to me as a result of my obedience on the cross and as a result。
of my resurrection."。
And it's interesting, it doesn't simply say, "Jesus, I am going to heaven to sit on the。
right hand of my Father," but he declares, "I am king today in heaven and on earth."。
The kingdom of God was established not just in heaven but also on earth.。
That is why we pray, "Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven."。
Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.。
Jesus here receives the land as his inheritance.。
Jesus talked a lot about the issue of who is the child of Abraham.。
Remember that question that I asked.。
And it seems that Jesus here enters that discussion.。
One time during his discussion with the Jewish leaders, the Pharisees, the discussion got。
heated and they answered him by saying, "Abraham is our father."。
Jesus said to them, "If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing the works Abraham。
did."。
Jesus here opens it to who could be a child of Abraham.。
If you have the faith of Abraham, you too could be a child of Abraham.。
And again we ask, being a child of Abraham, is it by ethnicity?。
Not to Jesus, it seems.。
Being a child of Abraham, is it about entitlement?。
Again not to Jesus.。
It's more about our accountability.。
And so the New Testament presents Jesus with this new Israelite.。
In short, the history of Israel narrows down and focuses on one person, an Israelite and。
a descendant of Abraham by the name of Jesus.。
This new Israelite reenacts the story of Israel and in his personality, in his person, he。
encapsulates what it means to be Israel.。
In addition, Jesus is also portrayed as the obedient and thus ideal Israelite, the one。
with whom God is well pleased.。
Israel's story now narrows down and becomes Jesus' story.。
And remember, he is an Israelite.。
He earned it by his obedience and he is at the same time a child of Abraham.。
And it couldn't have been any other way.。
And I'm sorry to tell you, Jesus couldn't have been a Chinese.。
He couldn't have been born in Hong Kong.。
He had to be born as a Jew in Bethlehem to continue that story of Israel.。
That shows God's commitment to salvation through the line of Abraham.。
We should be thankful to that because through that commitment, the good news of God's reign。
on earth through his Messiah reached today to the ends of the earth.。
We move to Paul, who enters a discussion about Abraham, the land, the covenant, the inheritance.。
And in Galatians 3.16, we have one of the most important verses about the theology of。
the land in Pauline writings.。
We all know John 3.16.。
I always say that for me personally and for many Palestinian Christians, we have Galatians。
3.16.。
You might wonder what is Galatians 3.16.。
Galatians 3.16 is the verse we have which speaks about who is the offspring of Abraham.。
And if we take that verse seriously, many answers, many questions will be answered.。
Paul declares, "Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring."。
It does not say, "and to offsprings," with a plural, of course, referring to many, but。
referring to one and to your offspring, who is Christ.。
This is a massive statement.。
Paul here effectively affirms that Jesus is the only legitimate recipient of the Abrahamic。
promises.。
And he denies, in essence, any other claims by any people, any person or people group。
to the benefits of this covenant.。
Paul doesn't say Jesus was one of the people of God.。
Paul doesn't say Jesus was one of the offsprings in many.。
Paul actually says there are no other offsprings to Abraham.。
There is only one, and that is Jesus.。
That is Jesus.。
And as I said, the story of Abraham narrows down in Paul's thinking until it is summed。
up in one person, Jesus.。
Remember, can anybody today, based on the New Testament, okay, we're talking here in。
a Christian discussion, come and say, "I am a child of Abraham.。
I receive the promises."。
Within a Christian discussion, according to Paul, the answer is no.。
Only Jesus has that right.。
Jesus inherits the land because he is the legitimate recipient of the Abrahamic promises。
as the son of Abraham.。
And the land that Jesus inherits is, of course, the whole earth.。
This was our argument.。
For Matthew claims, as we read, that Jesus has been given all authority on heaven and。
on earth.。
Jesus here receives all the lands of the earth as his inheritance, and this clearly echoes。
Psalm 2, 8, when we said, "Ask of me, the Messiah, and I will give you the ends of the。
earth as your possession."。
And so any theological claims that replace Christ's ownership to the land with Israel's。
must deal with the difficulties of defining Israel and with the New Testament claims that。
Christ receives the Abrahamic inheritance of the land.。
Not only that, so if we argue that the story of Israel narrowed down until it reached Jesus,。
at the end of Galatians 3, those promises or that story expands again.。
But this time, clearly not based on ethnicity or biological claims, but on faith and unity。
in Christ.。
Unity in Christ.。
Galatians 3, 27, 29, "For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.。
There is neither Jew nor Greek.。
There is neither slave nor free.。
There is no male and female.。
For you are all one in Christ Jesus, and if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring,。
heirs according to the promise."。
Through our unity in Jesus, we become part of the Abrahamic line.。
We too are Abraham's children, you too are Abraham's children, and we are heirs according。
to the promise.。
And of course I ask here, heirs to what?。
What do we inherit?。
For of course, here we see that the people of God have been redefined.。
Membership in the people of God today is through faith in Jesus, according to Paul.。
And when we ask, when we say heirs according to the promise, heirs to what?。
Here we say that the Abraham imagery, apart from the land promise, is really an empty。
form.。
And remember what we talked about the meaning of inheritance.。
When I say heirs according to the promise, again, this is not about privilege.。
This is about responsibility.。
The Abrahamic promises, that responsibility of being a blessing to the nations, a blessing。
to those who are around us, has been transferred now to those of us who believe in Jesus and。
who are united into Jesus.。
And notice how here we can clearly say, you know, Paul says there is no Greek or Gentile,。
male or female.。
And whenever I have been discussion with Messianic Jews, Christians from a Jewish believer, sometimes。
we do dialogue or debates, and I usually open to Galatians 3 and I say, according to Galatians。
3, what you inherit, I inherit.。
There is no distinction in our inheritance.。
We inherit the same thing because we both believe in the same Jesus.。
There is no separate plan for some people and a spiritual plan for some people.。
This is not the only place in which Paul emphasizes this.。
In Ephesians 2, 19, he speaks to Gentile believers.。
Now you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints。
and members of the households of God.。
And when we are members of the household of God, all that was belonging to the original。
people of that household belongs now to us as well.。
Ephesians 3, 16, Paul says this mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs.。
Fellow heirs meaning we inherit together.。
It's not like now Gentiles, you know, we come and kick out the Jews and now we take their。
place.。
It's not that.。
It's that now we became with them fellow heirs.。
In fact, I always say for Paul it could not have been any other way.。
The people of God had to be Jews and Gentiles together.。
That is the mystery for Paul and that is the reconciliation work of Christ.。
So we are fellow heirs, members of the same body and partakers of the promise in Christ。
Jesus through the gospel.。
Clear statement that now in Christ we become part of the story of Abraham, part of the。
story of Abraham of Israel.。
This is what 1 Peter 2, 9 clearly says and echoes when it says to the believers in Christ,。
you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood.。
Here Peter applies what was said about the people of God Israel in Exodus 19 to those。
who believe in Christ today.。
Not that we replaced biblical Israel, but it's that we are now part of biblical Israel.。
This is what Paul actually says in Romans 11.。
And I want to emphasize, you know, the olive tree example that Paul brings.。
Notice how Paul doesn't say the tree was uprooted, nor does he say all the original branches。
were uprooted, but some of the branches were broken off.。
We need to remember that.。
And when it says some, that reminds us that the first believers in Christ were actually。
Jewish believers.。
Yes Israel in general rejected the Messiah, but not every Israelite.。
So some of the branches were broken off and you, although a wild olive shoot, were grafted。
in among the others and now together at the same tree, at the same time, share in the。
nourishing fruit of the olive tree.。
There are no two olive trees, no plant for one branch and one plant for the other branch.。
We are together in the same tree at the same time and Jesus is the center.。
I have the privilege of seeing this actually happen in history.。
You know, my mother loves farming and I've seen her bring branches from another tree。
and graft them into one tree.。
It's a beautiful thing.。
And after a while, after a few months, when you look at that branch, you would not be。
able to tell which one is original and which one is not.。
And that's the beauty of this paradigm.。
But I've actually seen it take place in reality through worship meetings between Palestinian。
Christians and Messianic Jews where people from two different backgrounds are at the。
same olive tree at the same time worshiping the same God.。
And as such I emphasize what Paul wanted to emphasize in Romans 11.。
We should not be arrogant towards the Jews because just as some of them have fallen because。
of unbelief, we too could fall because of our unbelief and our pride.。
And he reminds us that we did not replace Israel, we are not the origin, but rather。
we joined Israel.。
And I want to emphasize that.。
We did not replace the Jewish people.。
Rather, we joined biblical Israel.。
Or put it more, we were incorporated into biblical Israel.。
I want to quote James Dunn who says, "God has not uprooted the olive tree of Israel。
and replaced it with another.。
On the contrary, uncultivated branches of wild olives, Gentiles, have been grafted into。
the olive tree of Israel, the same original planting."。
It's not replacement, it's incorporation.。
We did not replace, we joined.。
And this is not a new thing only in the time of Christ.。
Paul says, "You should have seen this coming."。
He goes to Abraham and he reminds us that God has always been not only the God of Jews,。
he is the God of Gentiles also.。
Yes, of Gentiles also in Romans 3, 29.。
So is this a paradigm shift in Paul?。
No, he is being faithful to his Jewish heritage.。
He went back to base his theology on Old Testament texts, especially on the person of Abraham.。
That's why for Paul, when he wanted to argue for the inclusion of Gentiles into the people。
of God, he had to go to Abraham.。
He didn't just invent this out of nothing.。
And so here we want to ask, because this is something I am always asked, so I will anticipate。
this question and try to respond.。
Does this mean that the Jews were rejected?。
Paul clearly says, emphatically says, "By no means."。
God has not rejected his people, yet we need to continue the verse.。
What does it mean that God has not rejected his people?。
Paul says, "For I myself am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, a member of all of。
the tribe of Benjamin.。
God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew."。
You see, for Paul, when he says God has not rejected his people, he says, "Look at me.。
I am a clear example that God has not rejected his people.。
I am a Jew, a son of Abraham, an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, and a tribe of Benjamin.。
When I came to faith in Christ, he did not reject me, but he accepted me."。
And so when Paul says God has not rejected his people, he doesn't mean for 2,000 years。
later he will bring them back to the land.。
That's not his point.。
His point is they are and can still be part of the people of God if they believe in Christ.。
And that's his whole point in Romans.。
It was actually a missiological point, trying to warn Gentile believers in Rome, "Don't。
be arrogant to the Jews.。
Be humble and witness to them.。
They have not rejected.。
If they believe in Christ, it's very natural to them to return to the original olive tree."。
The salvation of Israel for Paul, whether in Roman 11 or anywhere in his writing, is。
their faith in Jesus.。
It is not a political reality.。
It has nothing to do with restoration to the land.。
His statement, Paul's statement that all Israel will one day be saved, of course has drawn。
a lot of controversy and questions and debates and interpretations, and I can spend the next。
hour just summarizing to you all the different point views about what it means that all Israel。
shall be saved.。
I will not do that.。
Don't worry.。
But I want to emphasize this.。
What does it mean for Paul that the people of Israel shall be saved?。
What does the word "saved" mean for Paul?。
And again, here I remind you, saved for Paul could only mean faith in Christ, not a political。
state.。
So I always say, if Paul is saying in Romans 11 that one day every single Jew will become。
a Christian, amen.。
All right?。
There are, of course, different interpretations.。
Some say only the elect among the Jewish people.。
Some say it's actually an ongoing process.。
It's not about the future.。
Some say all Israel is Jews and Gentiles.。
Regardless of how you interpret that, what is all Israel, or when they shall be saved,。
one thing we cannot dispute is that saved for Paul could only mean faith in Christ,。
not a political state 2,000 years later.。
And that's why I always say you cannot use Romans 11 to justify or say that the state。
of Israel is a fulfillment of prophecy.。
And so to conclude the New Testament part, what the New Testament actually claims is。
nothing but the fulfillment of the Old Testament story.。
Jesus continues the story of Israel and brings it to realization.。
Eden is redeemed and restored.。
The earth is redeemed and restored right now through the ministry of Jesus, and as I will。
argue now, through the ministry of the church.。
Jesus didn't start something new.。
Remember, he was a Jew.。
And that the first believers were Jews.。
And so the church is both Jews and Gentiles together.。
And here I come back and back again to the same point.。
Has it been by DNA anyway to begin with?。
The inclusivity of Gentiles into the people of God has been anticipated.。
In fact, Paul argues this has been the goal when the calling of Abraham said, "You shall。
be a blessing to all the people."。
And now the blessing has been made to all the universe.。
And that's why the land now is the whole universe.。
I'm going to skip some slides and move because we're almost out of time.。
That's why the land has been, as I said, universalized.。
How much time we have?。
Okay, that's good.。
I'm almost done, don't worry.。
How much, what happened to the land now?。
Remember I argued that Jesus said, "All authority has been given to me on earth and in heaven。
that the land has been universal."。
All the lands of the earth has been given.。
And I mentioned in the Old Testament part the promises to Abraham.。
This is the verse I talked about.。
Paul in Romans 4.13 says, "For the promise to Abraham and his offspring that he would。
be heir of the world did not come through the law, but through the righteousness of。
faith."。
And notice how he doesn't say that he would be heir of the land or heir of Canaan.。
Rather, that he would be heir of the world.。
As I said, the Greek word is the cosmos.。
Elsewhere, in Ephesians 16, Paul applies the commandment to honor your parents so that。
you shall live long and the land that the Lord is giving you in the original context。
in Exodus becomes now so that you should live long, full stop.。
Which means it applies today in Ephesus and it applies in Hong Kong.。
What applied to the promised land in Israel's time applies today to us, people of God who。
are in covenant with God through Jesus, the Israelites.。
And so we read in Scripture that when redemption took place, after Jesus and only after Jesus。
was resurrected.。
You see, it doesn't work before restoration.。
The resurrection of Jesus is the point in which in salvation history restoration and。
redemption began.。
After that, Jesus tells the disciple, "You will receive power when the Holy Spirit has。
come upon you and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, in all Judea, Samaria, and the。
end of the earth."。
Psalm 2 is repeated again.。
In fact, that is the table of context of the book of Acts.。
It begins in Jerusalem, then moves into the ministry of the church in Judea, then Samaria,。
and concludes with Paul in Rome declaring the kingdom of God.。
Now the kingdom of God is a universal reality, no longer confined to one particular land。
or to one particular people.。
Sisters and brothers, this is the good news of the gospel.。
This is the gospel that was accomplished by Jesus.。
This is the salvation that was accomplished by Jesus in Jerusalem and expanded to the。
ends of the earth.。
Jesus is king on earth today and now through the embodiment, through his people, the church.。
We declare his kingship.。
We declare his rulership.。
Actually, how is the land universalized?。
We saw it in Acts 1a, through the ministry of the church, through evangelism.。
Not through might, not through power, but through the good news of the gospel, through。
the preaching of the word, and through actions of service and love and ministry to people.。
That is how we go to new lands and declare them as belonging to King Jesus.。
This is the gospel.。
This is the theology of the land.。
This is what we should continue to preach.。
The land, I argue, has been universalized.。
I am not spiritualizing the promises, nor heavenizing them, saying we're going to heaven.。
On the contrary, I am saying that the promised land expanded from Jerusalem to the ends of。
the earth.。
And it's here that I want to bring the theology of the land as a challenge to you.。
That the land has been, we should reproduce new Israelites community in new locations.。
And so you today should become in your community of God that embody justice, embody holiness,。
embody the presence of God in your midst, in your lands.。
And this is how even Hong Kong today, the place where you worship, where you embody。
God through the presence of Jesus in your midst, could become a holy land.。
And if you live in covenant with God, obey God, that land could function as a holy land,。
as a promised land, where people encounter God in you, where people learn about justice。
through your actions and through your ministry.。
This is what I call a missional theology of the land.。
Scripture reminds us that land matters.。
Israel and her land can function as a paradigm.。
And so a missional theology of the land replicates a Christian version of Israel in you lands.。
That's why if you were wondering what is the strange title of your book, From Land to Lands,。
From Eden to the Renewed Earth, this is exactly what I mean.。
Let's take the community model of salvation, the embodiment of the presence of God model。
of salvation and replicate it in you locations.。
Community society matter, territory matter, ecological issues matter.。
For the Bible in both testaments has a vision of an inclusive and redeemed land.。
Remember where I began my presentation with the scenes in the Middle East?。
And here I want to say the Middle East has enough of exclusive ideologies.。
The last thing we need is for Christians to come with more exclusive ideologies.。
We need to emphasize a more inclusive one, an approach in which land could be shared.。
And so before I move to modern interpretation, please understand what I'm saying.。
I am not saying that I reject Israel's right to exist today or that I'm calling for Israel's。
destruction.。
I am saying that as a Palestinian, and I should argue that all Christians, should relate to。
the state of Israel based on international law, okay, based on human rights, not based。
on their divine right or that Israel is a fulfillment of prophecy or that Israel is。
a blessing to the nations today that we should accept that as Palestinians and simply stand。
out of the land and so on.。
And because of that, we cannot be silenced over justice.。
My argument is simple.。
Let us relate to Israel based on international law.。
People, by the way, often ask me, "What is your theology of the Jewish people?"。
If you don't believe in this or that, you know, and I simply say, it's very simple.。
Love your neighbor as yourself.。
That's my theology of the Jewish people.。
They are created in the image of God, loved by God, and so we should do the same.。
We should love them, we should serve them, and if they are unjust, we should challenge。
them.。
If they are just, we should commend them.。
That is my theology of the Jewish people and simple.。
Remember that today in Palestine, and I wish I have the time to explain what I mean by。
just, there is a lot of injustices in the land in all aspects of life.。
There is an oppressed and an occupied and an occupier.。
There is inequality.。
And let us remember that justice matters to God and that the theology of the land is about。
a community that embodies justice and calls for justice.。
We always say that if your theology is against or trumps the biblical and ethical teachings。
of Jesus, of love, equality, and justice, then you must rethink your theology.。
If our theology discriminates, there's a problem with it.。
If our theology is ethnically based, if our theology is tribal, there is a problem with。
it.。
Remember Deuteronomy 16, "Justice and only justice you shall follow, that you may live。
and inherit the land that the Lord your God is sharing with you."。
And so I conclude with my hope and vision that one day the two peoples will be able。
to share the land, Palestinians and Israelis, and the two peoples will have equality and。
that justice will take place, even if that is a challenging reality.。
A shared land, I argue, is not simply one option forward.。
It is the only option forward, especially, by the way, in Palestine and Israel.。
It's such a small land.。
You cannot divide it.。
It's impossible.。
The only way forward is for Palestinians and Israelis to live together and to cooperate.。
We must find ways.。
And it's here that I argue, does our theology promote that?。
Do our prayers promote that?。
And do our action promote that concept of a shared land, a land in which all people。
are treated equally?。
I will finish my presentation with a quote from a document called Kairos, Palestine,。
written by Palestinian Christian theologians from all theological backgrounds.。
It's a beautiful quote about a vision for the land.。
In it, Palestinians say, Palestinian Christians, "Our land is God's land, as is the case。
with all countries in the world.。
It is holy inasmuch as God is present in it, for God alone is holy and sanctifier.。
It is the duty of those of us who live here to respect the will of God for this land.。
It is our duty to liberate it from the evil of injustice and war.。
It is God's land, and therefore it must be a land of reconciliation, peace, and love.。
This is indeed possible.。
God has put us here as two peoples, and God gives us the capacity, if we have the will,。
to live together and establish in it justice and peace, making it in reality God's land."。
As Psalm 24 says, "The earth is the Lord's, and all that is in it, the world and those。
who live in it."。
Thank you very much for listening.。
God bless you.。
[applause]。
1。
1。
1。
1。
1。
1。
1。
1。
1。
1。
1。
1。
1。
1。
1。
1。
1。
1。
1。
