Let me begin with a belated yet warm word of heartfelt welcome to our good friend, the。
Reverend Dr. O.T. Wright, not N.T. Wright, and he is from Langham Partnership International,。
which was first founded by John Stott as Langham Trust back in 1969. I still recall vividly。
the first time Chris visited Hong Kong as Langham's Director of International Ministries,。
not his first visit to Hong Kong, which he told me was back in the 80s. Now, that was。
19 years ago, 2003, when I had the honor and privilege to welcome him in the capacity of。
a Langham Scholar and the first Board Chairman of Langham Foundation Hong Kong. At the turn。
of the century, Chris succeeded John Stott in heading the Langham three-pronged endeavor。
that is scholarship, publication, and preaching for the majority world. It is of course a。
tall or very tall expectation for anyone to fill in Uncle John's shoes. Yet, the past。
two decades have allowed us all to testify in Chris not just a competent and generous。
leadership within the parameter of the evangelical Langham family, but also a biblical and missional。
impact on the global Lausanne movement, grounded by a sustained and focused effort in research。
and writing for the English-speaking churches worldwide and beyond.。
I think you would now agree with me that John Stott had indeed found the impossible candidate。
to accomplish a mission impossible after all. My presence here this evening is to conduct。
a dialogue with our distinguished speaker on the topic of the final lecture, the Old。
Testament and Christian Hope. Now, I shall assume that a dialogue is opposite to a monologue。
or soliloquy, so it is an intelligent conversation with a meaningful exchange of views. I may。
even want to claim the biblical paradigm of one canon, many voices, since we are exploring。
the apostolic confession of the Old Testament as Christian scripture. So, despite my overwhelming。
agreement to all Chris has said in this series of four extended lectures, I must still try。
my very best to pick bones in an egg, as the Chinese saying goes, and I propose to do so。
by making three consecutive comments, all on the issue of methodology.。
After expounding how the New Testament builds on the foundations of the Old in order to。
tell us who we are, why we are here, and how we are to live, Chris, at the start of his。
fourth lecture this evening, brought up the final question, where will it all end? He。
suggests that the Bible is a meta-narrative. It tells a big story that runs from Genesis。
to Revelation, from creation to new creation. He also makes use of the analogy of the Bible。
as a great drama, portraying the great sweep of the drama in seven acts—creation, rebellion,。
promise, Christ, mission, judgment, new creation—all on a napkin, remember. It is on this analogy。
of the Bible as meta-narrative, or a drama in seven acts, that I would like to raise。
my first comment. In his monograph, Dominion and Dynasty—A。
Analogy of the Hebrew Bible, published in 2003 by Apollos and InterVarsity Press, a。
Canadian scholar, Stephen Dempster, argues that despite its undoubted literary diversity,。
the Hebrew Bible possesses a remarkable structural and conceptual unity. Readers may hence find。
a comprehensive narrative framework which provides an overarching literary and historical。
context. Dawn Carson, another world-renowned New Testament scholar who is also the series。
editor, is of the opinion that Dempster's reading of the storyline of the Old Testament。
is fresh, provocative, helpful. The book comprises nine chapters, and between his introduction,。
chapter one, and conclusion, chapter nine, Dempster reviews the storyline in the middle。
six chapters, following the order of the Hebrew canon. The narrative storyline begins from。
Genesis and continues in the other four books, that is Exodus to Deuteronomy, after Torah,。
and the next four books, Joshua to Kings, of the former prophets. He gives this first。
part of the biblical narrative the theme, "Dominion lost, the rise and fall of Israel."。
The second part, Dempster labels as "retrospect" and "prospect," a "stump" and a "shoot,"。
and he calls this middle part, interestingly, a "suspension" of the storyline. When the。
poetic commentary begins with the four books, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Isaiah, and the twelfth。
of the latter prophets, and continues into another seven books of the writings. This。
is the second part. Finally, the third part marks the ending of poetic commentary and。
resumption of narrative storyline. In the last four books, Esther, Daniel, Ezra, Nehemiah,。
and Chronicles of the writings, and Dempster calls this part, "Dominion regained, the fall。
and rise of Israel." By insisting on not losing sight of the forest, that is, taking seriously。
the canonical structure of the Tanakh, Dempster honestly admits that his narrative storyline。
covers no more than 13 of the 24 books, or just one book more than half of the Hebrew。
scripture. The other 11 books he concedes to be poetic commentary, which also implies。
a suspension of the storyline. Thanks to his scholarly integrity, readers may become aware。
of the fact that the so-called "meta-narrative" of the Old Testament constitutes perhaps only。
the first half of the picture, leaving the second half a commentary and suspension.。
My first comment is, therefore, why not the other way round, taking Chayotz Geshishtah。
as a literary context for faith and work in the historical realities of the 5th Berith。
Olam (Everlasting Covenant), or even better, a consistently coherent periquoesis of Torah,。
Abiyim, and Ketuvim, altogether leaving behind both the logical system of dogmatics, where。
eschatology always comes last, and the linear progression of historical revelation, when。
there must still be a better future lying in wait for us.。
My second comment begins with the succinct summary statement Chris makes regarding hope。
in the New Testament. "Christian hope is not blind optimism, but rather the assured。
biblical certainty that the future is in God's hands, and God's sovereign purpose will。
ultimately be accomplished in the reconciliation and restoration of his whole creation, along。
with the redemption of people from every tribe and nation and language; and indeed, that。
hope has already been accomplished in anticipation through the cross and resurrection of Jesus。
Christ." I think this is a very important, succinct summary of what hope is in the New。
Testament. The center is in the cross and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Christian。
hope, in other words, is grounded on the biblical confession of the monotheistic faith. And。
I quote another Old Testament scholar, James Sanders, "What do we mean by monotheistic。
faith?" He has a very unique perspective on this particular theme. To monotheize, Sanders。
said, is not to progress or evolve toward monotheism, but rather to struggle within。
and against polytheistic contexts to affirm God's oneness, both in antiquity and today.。
This is what he calls canonical hermeneutics in his book Canon and Community, A Guide to。
Canonical Criticism, published in 1984. He goes on to emphasize that the interest was。
in what God was doing in and through the givens of the situation described, and what God might。
do again. God is presented as creator, sustainer, judge, redeemer, and re-creator insofar as。
we can discern the interest was never anthropocentric or primarily sociological or political, not。
in the way the various accounts, biblical narrative are presented canonically. The interest。
was in what God as creator and redeemer could do with the social conditions or the political。
situation. To moralize in reading a text is to focus on and even absolutize the cultural。
mores and conditions thereof. To theologize in reading a text is to focus on what God。
can do with the likes of the reader mirrored in the text.。
To recapitulate just a couple of examples of this canonical hermeneutics from Scripture。
again, when Malachi concluded with the coming of the day of the Lord, he referred his audience。
back to the classical days of Moses and Elijah. And so did Jesus during his transfiguration.。
The final vision Ezekiel saw during the darkest hours of the Babylonian exile regarding the。
rebuilding of New Jerusalem brought up the wilderness experience of the twelve tribes。
in the beginning chapters of the book of Numbers, a reference reappearing again in the final。
vision of the church in Revelation 21. And the mentioning of a new heaven and a new earth。
in Isaiah 65, also the passage quoted at its end, the same imagery from Isaiah chapter。
11, where the promise of Emmanuel was firmly anchored in the aftermath of the brief Syro-Aphramatic。
invasion. It is apparently against our religious instinct。
to look for hope not in the future days to come, but back to the historical past to witness。
the sovereignty of our one true God. Yet this is exactly what the Holy Scripture is trying。
to emphasize time and again, to bring us back to this monotheistic faith declared right。
from the very beginning of the creation of heaven and earth.。
This brings us to my last comment. And I would like to quote John Webster from one of his。
essays, The Dogmatic Location of the Canon, in his collection, The Word and Church, Essays。
in Christian Dogmatics, published in 2001. And this is what he says. "If the canon, that。
is the Bible, Holy Scripture, is a function of God's communicative fellowship with the。
unruly church," notice adjective, unruly, rebellious, "if it is part of the history。
of judgment and mercy," that is, the Bible is part of this history of judgment and mercy,。
"then the Bible, the canon, Scripture, cannot simply be a stabilizing factor or a legitimating。
authority. Rather, as the place where divine speech may be heard, it is, or ought to be,。
a knife at the church's heart." I like this imagery.。
During the first two decades in the history of our school, CGST, our first year students。
enrolled in two respective courses in Old Testament and New Testament theology, and。
then moved on to four courses in doctrinal theology in their subsequent years. First,。
biblical theology, then doctrinal theology. At the curriculum review of the mid-90s, we。
switched the order and asked our students to study the first two courses in dogmatics。
during their first year, then two more courses in dogmatics together with two biblical theology。
courses in their second year. The rationale behind was that biblical theology is no longer。
to serve as the proof-text for Christian theology, but rather, biblical theology becomes a necessary。
critique on our dogmatic thinking. Such is the practice in theological education of the。
Reformation principle of sola scriptura. The authority of Scripture does not begin with。
a single word God breathed and then proceed on to metaphysical polemics about infallibility。
or inerrancy, but rather should explore how the Word of God, not just God breathed, but。
also is useful for teaching, for rebuking, for correcting, and for training in righteousness,。
so that the men of God, men and women of God, may be thoroughly equipped for every good。
work (2 Timothy 3:16-17). So, returning to the theme of hope, what has the Holy Scripture。
to rebuke and correct our ecclesiastical traditions and apologetic orthodoxy? Chris aptly concludes。
his final lectures in saying that it is the Old Testament that shaped the New Testament's。
vision of the future, centered on Christ and His victory, and extended to every sinner,。
to all nations, and to the whole creation. Let us briefly re-examine once more these。
three foci of hope for sinners, hope for the nations, and hope for creation.。
Hope for Sinners。
God rewards the good and punishes the bad. This is accepted by every folk religion. It。
is only our Bible that talks about a God who pardons sinners and calls His own people to。
follow the footsteps of His beloved Son to suffer on their behalf. Remember Joshua, the。
Jesus of the Greek Septuagint. He saved not only Rahab the prostitute and her family from。
the ruins of Jericho, but also the Hivites living in Gibeon. One of the seven Canaanite。
tribes deserved to be destroyed from being killed by the Israelites. Do Christians rejoice。
when we see our enemies, the bad guys, being judged and condemned or forgiven?。
Hope for Sinners。
To the audience of Prophet Isaiah, that Egypt and Assyria, both archenemies of Israel, would。
be blessed by the Lord was definitely a distant hope, if not wishful thinking. But today,。
we have Christian seminaries in both Cairo and Baghdad, just like here in Hong Kong.。
The Christian gospel has indeed transformed the history and culture of each and every。
continent, and it is happening right before our eyes here in Asia today. Hope for the。
nations may no longer be a far-off dream 2,000 years after Pentecost. But what about the。
same old prophetic promise which bonded Egypt and Assyria together with Israel? Are we able。
to maintain fellowship among a Messianic Jew, a Palestinian Christian, and a Muslim background。
brother? Do we see our Israeli colleagues and Jewish friends, not Christians, as a people。
of the everlasting covenant, hence the root feeding the church? And that, looked at from。
the long-range perspective of God's overall purpose, they, the Jewish people, they remain。
God's oldest friends. God's gifts and God's call are under full warranty, never cancelled,。
never rescinded.。
Last, but definitely not least, hope for creation. My time is up, so I shall only focus on Isaiah。
65, as this half-chapter is not just the first among the four biblical passages mentioning。
the new heavens and the new earth, but also the fullest and perhaps the definitive statement。
for our understanding. The concluding verse on the wolf and the lamb, the lion and the。
ox, immediately rings a bell, because back in Isaiah 11, verses 6 to 9, the same imagery,。
a metaphor, is applied as an extended metaphor to the Davidic king and his duty to uphold。
justice among his people. The New Testament tells us our Lord reminds the faithful and。
wise servants to carry out their appointed tasks while waiting for the Master's return.。
Christian hope is not blind optimism, nor is it passive waiting, keeping our fingers。
crossed that everything will get better and better and turn out okay in the end. No, our。
hope is integrated indeed with our mission, as well as our ethics, as it is grounded in。
our identity. Yes, faith in Christ Jesus, love for all the saints, and hope in heaven。
holds Trill, or Trinity, in Colossians chapter 1. But all three, never, no, not in a far。
distant future, but right here and now. Remember, in 1 Corinthians, it is not hope that comes。
at the end, it's love. So thank you, Chris, for a series of very biblical and thought。
provoking lectures. I'm trying my very best to find bones in an egg, but I'm doomed to。
failure, of course. So, I'll hand the time back to the Chairman.。
