(music)。
Hello, brothers and sisters。
I am Professor Tan Chi-chiu。
from the School of the Holy Spirit。
I am very happy to share with you。
a book I like very much。
"Destroyer of the Gods"。
written by Larry Hurtado。
Larry Hurtado was my instructor。
when I was studying my PhD in Edinburgh。
He wrote this book in 2016。
As you can see, the title is "Destroyer of the Gods"。
It is about the destruction of the gods。
He intentionally described the "gods"。
He clearly compared the true God of Christianity。
with the gods of the Roman Empire in the 1st century。
The book is about the special features of Christianity。
He also mentioned the distinctiveness of Christianity in the title。
It is about the Christian ideas。
Today we may think of Christianity as a common belief。
We may think of Christianity as one of the religions。
with its own classicism and other things。
We may think of Christianity as a common belief。
But in the first three centuries or at the beginning of Christianity。
what is the difference between Christianity and the Roman Empire?。
The book is for the reader to re-examine and reflect on。
This book is a historical search。
It is not a book for interpretation。
It is a book for the reader to re-examine and reflect on。
The book has five chapters。
The first chapter is about the Christian view of Christianity。
Christianity is very interesting。
It is described as a person without a god。
How can Christianity be without a god?。
It is because Christianity believes in one God。
but does not believe in the gods of heaven。
This is strange to the Roman Empire。
How can a single God be a separate God。
and separate the other gods from the other gods?。
Christianity is also very different from the Jewish religion。
The Jewish religion also believes in one God。
But in the beginning of Christianity, Jesus Christ, the son of God, was made a savior。
He was placed in a place of worship。
The book uses the word "devotion"。
It is like he and God have the same status。
to receive our worship。
When you pray, you are in the name of the Lord。
When you confess, you are in the name of the Lord。
When you are baptized, you are in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit。
This book is for us to see。
The non-Christians, whether they are Jews or Romans。
feel that this kind of faith is very strange。
So, apart from the first chapter, which is from a non-Christian perspective。
the second and third chapters。
also talk about a new type of faith。
and a different status。
These people believe that Jesus Christ is a special one。
When they say he is the son of God。
their belief is different。
When you think about it。
what does a new type of faith。
and a different status mean?。
It means that what they believe。
is no longer the fullness of God。
Those are false gods。
The only true God and his son Jesus Christ。
is what this book wants to emphasize。
That kind of faith is different from others。
and has a very different status。
It is no longer the same as those false gods。
When there is no such relationship。
it is also different from Judaism。
Because when the Jews were to be converted。
to the country of Jerusalem。
and to be converted to Judaism。
from the perspective of the non-Christians。
they had already given up their national identity。
and their ancestors。
to become Jews。
So, what is different from Judaism。
is that it emphasizes our belief。
that we believe in one God。
and this one God does not mean that you belong to a nation。
Because this one God。
the faith that Jesus Christ brought to us。
is transcendental。
A trans-ethnic faith。
a trans-local faith。
is no longer a faith that belongs to a certain place。
a certain regime or a certain country。
but a faith that transcends the nation and the region。
It is a very different identity。
and this identity is what Jesus Christ。
claims to have brought to us。
Another important point to mention。
is that when Christianity is very different from other religions。
it is a bookish religion。
Bookish means that it is very faithful to books。
and it is very faithful from the beginning。
What does bookish mean?。
Bookish means that it is a very faithful religion。
It means that there are some。
that we later called "signs"。
which are simply the books of the Gospel。
and the books of the Bible。
In the early days。
they were already a classic。
and shaped their faith。
The whole faith was based on。
the books that were written。
This is very different from the faith of the present day。
In Judaism, they also focus on the classics。
but they focus on the hand-written scriptures。
and the commandments。
But in Christianity, there is no such commandment。
no such "sign"。
no such form。
This is also strange to the non-Christians。
because they emphasize a book。
and this book is changing their lives。
This book is giving them a new life。
and their faith。
is only based on what the non-Christians think。
It is like what you said today。
that you go to the temple to worship God。
and you add perfume to Him。
and you worship Him。
It is a form of mutual benefit。
You worship Him。
and God blesses you。
and you become rich。
and everything is good。
But in Christianity, it is not like that。
So this kind of identity and bookish religion。
is helping people to reflect on what is happening。
Why do you surround yourself with books。
that are about Jesus。
and that can change so much。
and you no longer do the worshiping of idols。
And in the last chapter, "A New Way to Live"。
it talks about how their life behaviors have changed。
The non-Christians think that。
if they have a baby and don't like it。
and it is a girl or something else。
they can just throw it away。
These Christians, because of these books。
have changed their lives。
They think it is not right。
They are human beings。
and are loved by God。
A God would love a human being。
and it is not about gender or race。
So their lives have changed。
Their views on sex, marriage, and how to see people。
and the connection between people。
They have a different view。
So in the first century。
they formed a very unique。
and new nation。
So this book helps us to explore。
the Christianity we see as a norm。
and to reflect on what was happening。
in the first three centuries。
It helps us to reflect again。
and not to take it for granted。
What is unique about Christianity。
is that it challenges the society。
and the social culture。
and the religious system。
and the political system。
to rethink。
If there is a God in this world。
who is the One True God。
what would He think?。
He is really exploring humanity。
and leaving these books。
to help us to reflect again。
So 2000 years ago was like this。
Today, in 2024。
it is worth thinking about。
what we believe in。
and what is the connection。
between our lives, our culture。
and the world that changes so quickly。
(upbeat music)。
