(music)。
Hello brothers and sisters。
I am Fr. Cuan Shui-min。
teaching at the Church of St. George's。
Today I am introducing a book。
written by a French theologian。
Jean-Luc Nantz。
The book is called。
"Disenclosure, the Deconstruction of Christianity"。
The author is a prominent European theologian。
Although this book is about Christianity。
it is not a book on the theology of Christ。
and it is not a book to defend Christianity。
or to oppose Christianity。
Nantz's main purpose。
is to put Christianity。
in the context of Western history。
Western culture and civilization。
to explore and examine。
the characteristics of Christianity。
Through these characteristics。
we can see that。
when Western civilization and modernity。
are in a state of closure and disintegration。
how can Christianity。
open up a new way of thinking?。
What does a normal person believe?。
A normal person believes that。
Christianity is a God。
whom we believe to be high above。
a God who is extremely high。
and worthy of worship。
Therefore, I think that for many people。
Christianity is a relationship with God。
or we follow His words。
read the Bible。
or follow the Bible。
Nantz felt that this kind of understanding of Christianity。
was not without reason。
but was rather shallow。
and could not grasp the very important essence of Christianity。
He mentioned that what is faith?。
Faith is a relationship。
between life and nothingness。
and nothingness is not a negative meaning。
not a negative meaning。
but a meaning of。
"infinite openness"。
To use an analogy。
this "infinite openness" is like。
when Abraham left his family。
to enter a very open but unknown land。
Therefore, faith is not about beliefs。
nor about beliefs。
but about the journey we can embark on。
What does the book "This Enclosure" mean?。
I have seen a good translation of this in Chinese。
It is translated as "解圍"。
"解" means to open, to loosen, to surround。
or to seal。
So what does "解圍" mean?。
What does "this enclosure" mean?。
It means to seal up。
to surround and loosen。
Specifically, it means to seal up。
or to seal up the world view。
How can we loosen it up?。
Nazi thought that the essence of Christianity。
was the so-called "this enclosure"。
which is the essence of the unsealing of the world。
The title of this book is。
"The Construction of Christianity"。
in Chinese, it means "the deconstruction of Christianity"。
The meaning of "this enclosure" is not to destroy Christianity。
nor to overthrow Christianity。
What does "this enclosure" mean?。
It means that Nazi used his analysis。
and his discovery of the Christian tradition and faith。
to rediscover the internal tension and the chastity。
and thereby to rediscover the internal tension and chastity。
and thereby to rediscover the internal tension and the chastity。
and thereby to rediscover the internal tension and the chastity。
The deconstruction of Christianity。
was simply to rediscover the internal tension and chastity。
was simply to rediscover the internal tension and chastity。
and thereby to rediscover the world sense。
The term "world sense" is in hyphen。
This hyphen is very important。
When you read the book。
you may want to understand what the hyphen means。
and thereby to rediscover the world sense。
and thereby to revitalize our times。
Most importantly, he believed that。
the world sense was not a rational。
or a belief or a Bible。
Nazi believed that this deconstruction。
could be a very powerful framework。
to face the current time。
and to use a new perspective to understand the world。
and to rediscover the world sense。
in this uncertain but prosperous world。
However, Nazi was not so one-sided。
In this book, he found that。
Christianity has two sides。
On the one hand, we know that。
in the history of Christianity。
Christianity has often been very rigid。
On the other hand, Nazi found that。
Christianity has a tradition and history。
that are indeed open-minded。
and often strive for the future。
at the critical moments of history。
and to make a difference in the present。
so that we can go back to the way we were。
and have the courage to leave our own family。
We can say that。
Nazi's attitude towards Christianity。
is actually quite complicated。
It is both positive and negative。
This shows the exquisite point of view of Nazi。
Let's take a look at the logic of this book。
First, we find that。
Nazi was analyzing Western culture。
When he analyzed Western culture。
or when he started the Enlightenment movement。
he thought that reason was the only way to solve human problems。
However, when he came to this day。
he found that this method。
had reached the end of his life。
Although reason is very important。
he found that reason could not cover。
many complex aspects of life。
Therefore, if we see reason as the only way to solve problems。
our life will be left with many blank spaces。
which are easily filled with dangerous ideologies。
which have led to many crises in history。
or even disasters。
For example, violence。
or the hard to allow differences。
or the rejection of others。
or the Marxism-Leninism。
or the authoritarianism。
or the opportunism of the market。
There are many difficulties in human history。
including the origin of the rich。
and the growing gap between power。
Nazi thought that if we want to face these challenges。
we must face and embrace the mystery and the mystery。
Of course, in this so-called。
"pure rationality" and "respectful" area。
Nazi never advocated the return of religion。
and did not advocate the so-called "return of the religious"。
because he thought that the return of religion。
would only bring trouble to humanity。
like throwing a stone at your own feet。
So, Nazi urged us to face and embrace the mystery。
in the Western Christianity。
and the Christian "disenclosure"。
which has existed inside。
This book has been a great source of inspiration。
for us to read。
The author suggested that we start with two chapters。
One is called "Atheism and Monotheism"。
and the other is called "The Construction of Monotheism"。
The two chapters can roughly explain。
the basic concept of the book。
What does this mean?。
It means that the modern atheism。
is basically born from the Christian monotheism。
But if there is no so-called。
"monotheism" in the ancient Greek philosophy。
then the Christian monotheism。
may not have appeared in history。
So, simply put, the analysis found that。
atheism and monotheism are not opposites。
but are in fact a complex relationship。
Both emphasize the principle of "uniqueness and supreme"。
but the two are different in how to face。
and respond to the so-called "uniqueness and supreme"。
The Christian monotheism calls this "uniqueness"。
and "supreme" as God。
At the same time, we find that。
this kind of God, which is seen as。
"uniqueness, supreme" and "superior"。
seems to be a stronger God。
but at the same time, it also。
can be colorful and unifying。
to experience the divine。
with the experience of "limitedness"。
in this world。
until the whole world slowly becomes "unique"。
and loses its "uniqueness"。
and finally the two worlds are closed。
Of course, God's "superiority"。
also opens up the ability to "unify"。
and thus the two worlds cannot be completely closed。
On the other hand, according to the so-called "monotheism"。
it is actually a product of the so-called "divine"。
emptying the divine。
What does the so-called "monotheism" like to do?。
It likes to seal the principle of "supreme"。
with reason, science, power, etc.。
But in the end, it is also in the whole history。
to experience the so-called "meaning"。
or the wasteland of "sense" and "truth"。
Nancy believes that if we want to get rid of。
this civilized confinement。
we must deconstruct the "one-god" theory。
God is understood as a complete "duality"。
and it is a permanent escape。
from our definition or limitation。
In this sense。
God is not the "one-god" theory。
that is worshiped。
nor is it the "superiority" theory。
that is vigorously pursued。
and is to be understood。
What is the so-called "God"?。
God is "absence"。
God is "absence"。
But don't get me wrong。
I don't mean。
God ignores the world。
God is missing。
or God is free to go around the world。
I don't mean that。
I mean that God's presence is absence itself。
God's presence is absence itself。
This kind of absence is not empty。
but rather full of power。
full of openness。
and full of possibility。
This openness can be a space for growth。
and a new experience for the meaning, relationship。
and the existence of God。
Interestingly。
Nancy used the "absence theism"。
which we can translate as "absence theism"。
to deconstruct the "one-god" theory。
and the "one-god" theory。
God basically。
breaks the confinement of the main character。
God is neither the main character。
nor a subject。
but a spread of openness。
mystery and a convention。
We will see a few chapters。
about faith。
These chapters basically。
explore a large number of theologians。
including the reformist master Derrida。
This process shows the complexity of Christianity。
and its internal structure。
One of the chapters deals directly with the Gospels。
If you are interested in the Bible。
I am sure you will be very interested in this chapter。
because it clearly shows the activity。
and embodiment of the faith。
and the activity and embodiment of the faith。
The other chapter deals with the "disclosure of the gospel"。
It is interesting that。
it not only explores the "one-god" theory。
but also the Christian experience。
The title of the chapter is "Disclosure"。
which provides a very conclusive point of view。
In general, this book invites us。
to rethink our faith。
and allows us to discover。
that Christianity has the ability to disclose。
In short, "Disclosure"。
clearly illustrates the fact that。
the "one-god" is a kind of openness。
God is both presence and absence。
He is far and close。
He is both within our grasp。
and beyond our grasp。
This book is a philosophical book。
but I believe that for those who love faith。
and reflect on the Gospels。
you will find that this book。
is surprising and insightful。
at the same time, it is challenging。
but also very hopeful。
I hope you will like this book。
[music]。
