[Music]。
[Cantonese] Hello everyone, I am Dr. Chan Wing Chiu. I am a teacher at the Hong Kong Chinese University, Tung Kee School, Sha Lek College.。
I am very happy to be here to introduce to you a book that has a great influence on me.。
I am holding this book in my hand because I don't have a physical copy,。
so I have a book for you to see. It is called "Mere Discipleship" by Lee Kam.。
I will share with you the content of this book and its influence on me.。
The name of this book is "Mere Discipleship".。
Unfortunately, I introduced it in Chinese, but the original version of this book is only in English.。
It does not have a Chinese translation.。
But I have thought about how to translate this book.。
I thought of another book.。
Our readers may remember it.。
C.S. Lewis wrote a book called "Mere Christianity".。
The book was published in 1952, so the readers may have some impression.。
"Mere Christianity" has a Chinese translation.。
It is called "The Return of the Rebellion".。
I think this book is very interesting.。
Because the same word is used in the same book as Lee Kam's book.。
It is called "Mere".。
If the two words are similar,。
if I use the idea of Lewis to translate this book,。
it will be translated as "The Return of the Rebellion".。
The word "Mere" is related to "religion".。
So we can recall that the author Lee Kam hoped to return to the origin of "The Return of the Rebellion".。
Let's re-experience the concept of the "Mere" again.。
When this book was published, it was very useful to me.。
I remember in 2016, I was preparing a new course in Chong Kee.。
It is related to "The Return of the Rebellion".。
When I was looking for this topic, I faced a problem.。
Although I have been a pastor for decades,。
and I have done many "Mere" courses,。
I think that in terms of the concept of "The Return of the Rebellion",。
our course can be much more, and the training books can be much more.。
But I think that as time goes by,。
the people's concept of "The Return of the Rebellion" is a bit confused.。
So at this turning point, I came across this book by Lee Kam.。
He is going to "repeat" "The Return of the Rebellion".。
He is going to use this book to point out the problems.。
He is going to use this book to point out the problems.。
At that time, I had many questions, but I didn't know how to express them.。
But this book helped me in terms of history and ideas.。
It allowed me to find some words to express,。
and it helped me to be more fulfilled in my course.。
Before talking about the background of this book,。
Lee Kam is a professor in a university in Tennessee,。
which is in the middle of the United States.。
This university is not very famous.。
It is a Christian university, but its history is very long.。
The name of the university is Lipscomb,。
which is a name of a person.。
David Lipscomb was a famous person in Tennessee.。
He appeared in the post-war period of the U.S.S.S.。
He thought that the U.S.S.S. was a very interesting country。
because it was a Christian country.。
But when the war broke out, the soldiers in the north and south were all Christians.。
He felt that this was not right,。
so he stood up and opposed the war.。
He felt that as Christians, we should have a Christian sense of values.。
So he fought against the idea of war from the perspective of God,。
and he stood up to oppose the war.。
The war ended soon after,。
and he was very popular.。
He founded a university called David Lipscomb,。
which is still very active today.。
Lee Kam is a professor in this university.。
He also wants to embody the same idea.。
The source of this book is to re-think God's perspective。
from all perspectives,。
from all political parties,。
from all political parties,。
and to re-think the picture of the door.。
When you read this book,。
you will see that it is very powerful and inspiring.。
It uses the story of the two tribes of Luangta。
who slaughtered each other as a start.。
It is very bloody.。
It talks about two tribes fighting each other.。
Why does he use this example?。
At that time, the United Nations considered Luangta。
as the most Christian country.。
More than 90% of people said they were Christians.。
But during the process of Luangta,。
Lee Kam said,。
"How can a Christian citizen。
be a believer,。
and they can stab their neighbor。
and slaughter him?"。
He used this bloody example to raise this question.。
As Christians,。
where is our value?。
If we are the door,。
where is the idea of the door?。
He went on to pursue this idea.。
Once he pursued this idea,。
he went from bad to worse.。
He went back to the history of the Church.。
In 321,。
when Constantine was the Roman Emperor,。
he was 32 years old.。
He knew Jesus and had faith.。
From that time on,。
Christianity no longer needed to hide。
in a hidden place.。
Because the Emperor claimed to have faith in Christianity.。
But in this matter,。
the reflection until today,。
what happened?。
The Church was raised up.。
The perspective of God was lowered.。
This is the situation.。
I will repeat it again.。
In the 4th century,。
the perspective of the Church was raised up.。
The perspective of God was lowered.。
Why did the perspective of the Church appear?。
Because the Emperor was the Golden Lord.。
The Emperor was the Descendant.。
The Christianity could have a system。
and a religion in an open place.。
Even the King of the Church,。
the country and the religion。
would not be separated.。
All of a sudden,。
the status of religion was raised up.。
The people used their political and economic thinking。
to build up their faith.。
In the past 1700 years,。
we did not consider this issue.。
Many times, the growth of the Church,。
the revival of the Church, etc.。
were short-lived and not done enough.。
Including Martin Luther's Reformation,。
he had a system of Catholicism.。
He had a so-called "Faithful and Pure"。
when he entered the new Catholic system.。
He did not change the system.。
He just introduced a different system,。
a Catholic system,。
into the new Catholic system.。
In this book,。
Lee Kam reflects on history。
and helps us to reflect.。
We cannot go back to 10, 20 or 30 years ago.。
We have to go back to a very early period.。
The Church was raised up.。
In this book, he helps us to reflect.。
He gives us a diagnosis,。
a diagnosis, a name of the disease.。
In this case, he calls it "Post-Tandem White Psycho".。
If a person is a "Post-Tandem White Psycho",。
he is not clear about the things around him.。
He is very self-centered.。
He develops the content of this book from this aspect.。
The book is divided into three parts.。
The first part is about the first part.。
The second part is about the history of the Church.。
He gives many examples up to now.。
The third part is about how we can re-form。
and how we can jointly develop。
the "Post-Tandem White Psycho"。
and return to the truth of the "Post-Tandem White Psycho".。
Thank you for having the opportunity to explore this book.。
I am very happy to give you a brief introduction.。
Thank you.。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
