The gathering of 15,000 students here at the convention is a strong indication to the world。
that Christian young people today are still vitally concerned about evangelism and missions。
as an expression of their obedience to the Lord's great commission.。
This convention is a tremendous encouragement as well as challenge to all Christians of。
the world in regard to missions.。
You have come here to study evangelism missions and more important to find out God's will。
for your lives.。
I pray that this convention will be an instrument in the hand of the Almighty God for the reinforcement。
of the missionary cause in the whole world.。
I want to express my gratitude to the planning committee of this convention for giving me。
this precious privilege of having a share in the great fellowship of this convention.。
I deeply feel my own unworthiness to stand here as a speaker.。
Your prayer for me will be greatly valued and appreciated.。
The theme of my message these four mornings is biblical basis of missions.。
I divide this theme into four subtitles.。
First the basis of missions in the Old Testament.。
Second the basis of missions in the Gospels, that is Christ and missions.。
Third the basis of missions in the Book of Acts, that is the Holy Spirit and missions.。
Fourth the basis of missions in the Epistles, that is the Church and missions.。
This morning we take up the first subtitle.。
The basis of missions in the Old Testament.。
The Bible is a record of a mission, the divine mission of saving the human race, carried。
out by the triune God and his commissioned people.。
The history of the people of Israel is the history of a mission.。
The record of the corporate mission of the people of Israel began with the fascinating。
story of a personal mission, the mission of Abraham.。
The burden of Abraham's mission is clearly stated in God's calling to him.。
God said to him, "I will bless thee and thou shall be a blessing and in thee shall all。
families of the earth be blessed."。
That was a great mission, the mission of blessing the whole world.。
Abraham became a great missionary, all missionary.。
God called Abraham and he responded in faith.。
He left behind his old way of life and started the pilgrimage of a heavenly errand.。
Abraham is called the father of faith, but his faith was means to an end and that end。
was a mission.。
Faith by itself is without content.。
In the life of Abraham, faith was required of him because the carrying out of his mission。
was often met with hindrances and difficulties which could be overcome only by faith in God,。
the originator of the mission.。
God's calling to Abraham also applies to his descendants.。
For God said to Abraham, "In thy seed shall all nations of the earth be blessed."。
The word seed has a threefold reference.。
In the first place, it refers to the people of Israel.。
For God said to Abraham, "I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven and as。
the sand which is upon the seashore."。
God's purpose in raising up the nation of Israel was to show the world through their。
history his way of salvation and thereby bring all the nations of the world to enjoy his。
blessings.。
In the second place, the word seed refers to Jesus Christ.。
All heavenly blessings have come to us through Jesus Christ, so Paul tells us in the opening。
verses of his epistle to the Ephesians.。
In the third place, the word seed refers to Christians who are called by Paul the spiritual。
children of Abraham.。
The apostle Peter has made it very clear to us that we Christians are called by God to。
the great task of blessing others, which is our mission.。
First Peter 3.9.。
Christians are missionaries.。
We cannot be true Christians without being missionaries.。
We are here at this convention to realize that we are all commissioned by God for the。
great mission of taking God's blessings to the whole world.。
None of us can rightfully excuse himself from this mission.。
So Abraham's mission passed on to his descendants.。
God's calling to Abraham was also given to his son Isaac.。
And the Lord appeared unto Isaac and said, "I will bless thee and I will perform the。
promise which I gave unto Abraham thy father.。
And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed."。
It was also given to Jacob.。
And behold, the Lord stood above and said to Jacob, "I am the Lord God of Abraham, and。
in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed."。
This line of thought does not stop here.。
Through the mouth of Jacob, a great blessing was given to Joseph, who was the next link。
in the line of this mission.。
We read in Genesis 49.22, "Joseph is a fruitful bough whose branches ran over the wall."。
What a beautiful metaphor for a vessel of blessing.。
We can therefore say that the spiritual trademark of the patriarchs of the people of Israel。
was "blessed to bless."。
Then this note of mission suddenly disappeared from the time of Moses onward, when the people。
of Israel were engaged in a desperate struggle for survival of existence and for maintenance。
of their faith in Jehovah.。
The general tone of this period naturally and necessarily became one of separation from。
other nations in order to keep their heads above the water of the influence of heathen。
corruption and degeneration.。
They were in a great danger of losing their spiritual identities and of being carried。
away by the flood of conformity to the lifestyle of their immediate neighbors.。
This historical background provides us with the light in which we see the true perspectives。
of the need of both the positive and negative aspects of the Christian life.。
Positive to be means of blessing to other people.。
Negative to be kept from drifting into conformity to the world, which in its principles is opposed。
to our mission of blessing others.。
These two aspects make up the divine balance which we must maintain in order to travel。
on the right path.。
Then time came for God to remind his people again of their mission.。
God did it through the prophets.。
In the utterances of the prophets, we again see the people of Israel in the hand of God。
as vessel of blessing for the whole world.。
Their mission was definitely and clearly to go beyond their national lines and aim at。
the bringing of all nations to a true knowledge of God.。
The teaching of the prophets tells us at least three things that have to do with missions.。
First, the universality of God's claim.。
Second, the universality of God's plan of salvation.。
Third, the universality of the messianic kingdom.。
Now first, the universality of God's claim and missions.。
The absolute and universal claim of God is most clearly, definitely, and fully set forth。
in one single chapter in the Old Testament, the 45th chapter of the book of Isaiah, which。
is one of the most significant chapters of the whole Bible.。
We find at least eight claims of God in this chapter.。
First, Jehovah is the only God.。
This claim is repeated nine times in this chapter.。
This God must be proclaimed and acknowledged and worshipped in all the world.。
Second, Jehovah is the God of creation, verse 18, the Lord that created the heavens, that。
formed the earth and made it.。
The whole creation declares the glory of its creator.。
This universal lordship and ownership should be announced everywhere.。
Third, Jehovah is the God of the human race, verse 12, I have made the earth and created。
man upon it.。
The whole human race belongs to God by virtue of creation.。
This fact must be made known to all men.。
Fourth, Jehovah is the God of moral order, therefore of judgment, verse 8, let the skies。
pour down righteousness, I the Lord have created it.。
There is only one moral order in the world and that is the order established by God and。
he is therefore the only judge.。
Fifth, Jehovah is the God of history, verse 11, ask me of things to come, who have declared。
this from ancient times?。
Have not I the Lord?。
God shaped the history of mankind and directed toward the final fulfillment of his plan.。
This is biblical philosophy of history which lends great support to world evangelization.。
Sixth, Jehovah is the God of revelation, verse 19, I have not spoken in secret.。
God has not left the knowledge of him to the secrecy of the subtle reasonings of the wise。
but has manifested it through the prophets for all men.。
Seventh, Jehovah is the God of salvation for all men, verse 22, look unto me and be ye。
saved, all the ends of the earth.。
Eighth, Jehovah is the Lord of all men, verse 23, unto me every knee shall bow.。
This is a microscopic presentation of almost the whole Christian doctrine.。
All these universal claims of God require worldwide action in evangelism and missions.。
Second, the universality of God's plan of salvation and missions.。
In the minds of many of the prophets, the scope of God's plan of salvation certainly。
went beyond Israel and included the Gentiles.。
The prophet Isaiah said, neither let the son of the stranger that hath joined himself to。
the Lord speak, saying, the Lord hath utterly separated me from his people.。
The prophet Zephaniah prophesied that all nations will call upon the name of God.。
He said, I will give to the people purified lips that all of them may call on the name。
of the Lord.。
The concept of purification was no longer exclusive with the people of Israel.。
The prophet Malachi made it clear that the right of worshipping God was going to be bestowed。
upon the Gentiles.。
From the rising of the sun unto the going down of the same, my name shall be great among。
the Gentiles, and in every place incense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure offering,。
saith the Lord of hosts.。
The development of the concept of the universality of God's plan of salvation in the prophecies。
of the Old Testament can be arranged in the following order of degree.。
First, the title of the people of God will be widened in its application to include all。
nations who were at one time strangers.。
The prophet Hosea said, I will say to them which are not my people, thou art my people,。
and they shall say, thou art my God.。
Second, the once closed house of God will be open to all nations who will rejoice with。
the people of Israel in the praise of God.。
The house of worship will be no longer the peculiar privilege of the chosen people.。
It was against this background that the prophet Isaiah said, his rest, referring to the house。
of God, shall be glorious.。
Third, the Messiah's flag of love and protection will be flung over all nations.。
He will no longer be a national savior, but savior and king of the whole earth.。
The prophet Isaiah declared that there shall be a root of Jesse, referring to Messiah,。
which will stand for an ensign of the people.。
To it shall the Gentiles seek.。
Fourth, nations will be partakers of God's forgiveness of sin.。
The grace of purification will be granted to the Gentiles as much as to the people of。
Israel.。
The prophet Isaiah said, and he will destroy in this mountain the face of the covering。
cast over all people and the evil that is spread over all nations.。
He will swallow up death in victory, and the Lord God will wipe away tears from off all。
faces, and the rebuke of his people shall be taken away from off all the earth.。
For the Lord hath spoken it.。
The redeemed people of all nations will commune with God with clean lips.。
Fifth, the Gentiles will turn away from their ways of iniquity and glorify God.。
Sixth, people of the ends of the earth will be taught of God's truth, and the isles shall。
wait for his law.。
Seventh, the redeemed of God in the whole world will walk in the light of God.。
I will make judgment to rest for a light of the Gentiles.。
Eighth, not only that the Gentiles will join the people of God, but also that they will。
be found in the leadership of the people of God.。
They will be priests and Levites.。
I will also of them refer to the Gentiles for priests and Levites, saith the Lord.。
This concept was far too advanced for the average Israelite to understand.。
All this was going to be done through the instrumentality of the people of God.。
It was the prophet Zephaniah who used the clearest words to delineate the mission of。
Israel.。
He said, "It shall come to pass that as ye were a curse among the heathen, O house of。
Jude and house of Israel, so will I save you, and ye shall be a blessing."。
Zephaniah pointed out the failure of Israel.。
They were a curse.。
How miserably they failed in their mission.。
But God did not give them up.。
He was going to save them and help them to carry out their mission, to be a blessing。
to the whole world.。
Third, the universality of the Messianic kingdom and missions.。
The concept of the Messianic kingdom is essential and central in the Old Testament prophecies.。
Again, the scope of this kingdom far transcends the boundaries of Israel.。
The idea of mission is intrinsically present in the universality of the Messianic kingdom.。
I'm going to mention three things about the Messianic kingdom.。
The king, the capital, and the dominion.。
The king of the Messianic kingdom has a threefold role as servant, as prophet, and as ruler.。
The Messianic king as a servant and a missioner is a most significant and profound concept。
in the sublime prophecies of the book of Isaiah.。
And it is one of the wonders of God's plan of salvation.。
The Messianic king had a mission, the fulfillment of which involves suffering and sacrifice。
on his own part.。
As the servant, the king's visage was marred more than any man and his form more than the。
sons of man.。
The prophet Isaiah also emphatically pointed out that the sufferings of this servant king。
sprinkle many nations, which means that the efficacy of his sacrifice riches the whole。
world.。
The Messiah is king, servant, prophet.。
His role as prophet is by no means the slightest of his offices.。
He shall be exalted and extolled and be very high.。
Kings shall shut their mouths at him, for that which had not been told them shall they。
see and that which they had not heard shall they consider.。
To the Gentiles, the Messiah will be their light, the light of truth, wisdom, and judgment.。
This light was to be sent to the ends of the earth by the people of God.。
The Messiah will be ruler of all nations.。
His kingdom will cover the whole earth.。
God said, "Behold, I have given him," referring to the Davidic king, "for a witness to the。
people, a leader and commander to his people.。
Behold, thou shalt call a nation that thou knowest not, a nation that knew not thee。
shall run unto thee because of the Lord thy God."。
It is clearly pointed out here that the Messiah will be the king of nations, not merely the。
king of Israel.。
The lordship of this king shall be proclaimed throughout the width and breadth of the globe。
through evangelism and missions.。
The capital of the Messianic kingdom, Jerusalem as the capital of the Messianic kingdom, will。
be the center of blessing for the whole world.。
The 87th Psalm presents to us a precious and beautiful picture of the world's significance。
of Jerusalem.。
The Lord loveth the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob.。
I will make mention of Rahab and Babylon as they that know me.。
Behold, Philistia and Tyre with Ethiopia.。
And of Zion it shall be said, "This and that man was born in her."。
This means that Zion or Jerusalem is the spiritual fatherland of many Gentile peoples.。
Then the Psalmist goes on to describe the joy and blessings of the sons and daughters。
of Jerusalem.。
"The singers as well as the players on instruments shall be there in Jerusalem and they shall。
say, 'All my springs of joy are in thee.'"。
The prophet Isaiah sings of Jerusalem as the center of Messianic blessings.。
"The Gentiles shall come to thy light and kings to the brightness of thy rising."。
In regard to the dominion of the Messianic kingdom, the prophet Zechariah cries in prophecy,。
"Behold, thy king cometh unto thee.。
He is just and having salvation, lowly and riding upon a nass and upon a colt.。
His dominion shall be from sea even to sea and from the river even to the ends of the。
earth."。
Evidently, this wonderful prophecy has been fulfilled in Jesus Christ who entered Jerusalem。
on a colt and whose spiritual dominion is from sea to sea even to the ends of the earth.。
All this has been brought about by God through missions.。
Even God has done it in the past, he is doing it at the present time.。
I'll skip the next section on the prophet's missionary visions.。
Now for the last part of my message this morning, let us do some thinking about the crises in。
the history of Israel regarding their mission.。
The first crisis was Abraham's hearing.。
Abraham's hearing.。
Abraham, as great as he was in faith, had his failure.。
He stopped short of God's calling when he discontinued his journey at Haran, halfway。
between his native country and the land where God wanted him to go.。
But thanks to God, he only stopped there for a limited period of time.。
God called him again and he rose and pressed on.。
In regard to Abraham's experience, let us take special notice of two things which are。
of special importance.。
In the first place, God asked him to get out of his own country and from his kindred and。
from his father's house and to a land he would show him.。
That was an absolute condition which Abraham must fulfill before he could reach a place。
where he was blessed and became a blessing to others.。
We are reminded here that we must be willing to have a radical departure from our accustomed。
way of life, which is so natural and so easy to our self-centeredness, and move on to a。
new path of life which is rightly called the land of milk and honey because it is spiritually。
fruitful.。
Abraham was faced with a tremendous choice, a choice on which hand not only his own destiny,。
but also the destiny of a nation and indeed the destiny of the whole world.。
It was a most serious crisis.。
Abraham made the right choice and he obeyed the call of God.。
The change of his name from Abraham to Abraham is a beautiful symbol of the transformation。
that took place in his life.。
Abraham means exalted father, but Abraham means father of nations.。
This change of name indicates that the center of Abraham's life moved from himself to his。
relationship with others.。
Abraham's offering of his only beloved son as a sacrifice to God was the peak of his。
life of self-negation.。
Only following the selfless act, God reiterated his great promise to him, "In thee shall all。
the families of the earth be blessed."。
In the second place, there are at least two conditions which Abraham must fulfill before。
he could accept the call of God and became a vessel of blessing.。
The first condition is that Abraham must understand that his own blessing and the blessing of。
other people are linked together as one thing.。
They can never be separated from each other.。
He could not take the one and leave the other.。
The two form one organic whole.。
Abraham did understand this twofold nature of the call of God and he obeyed.。
God always hides his blessings for us in our willingness to be a blessing to others.。
God hides his love in his commandment.。
God hides his rich rewards in our obedience.。
God hides his best treasures in a self-denying life.。
God's ways are higher than our ways.。
Christ says, "Give and it shall be given unto you, good measure pressed down and shaken。
together and running over shall man give it into your bosom."。
The second condition is that Abraham must have faith before he could accept the call。
of God to be a blessing because trial and hardship are involved in such a life.。
Many times in his life, things seem to go against the promises of God.。
God's promises to him had to do with three things, his seed, the promised land and the。
nations, but he was greatly tried in all these three aspects.。
God promised to give him the land of Canaan, but he arrived there only to find it already。
occupied by others.。
God promised to give him a son, but he had to wait for 25 years.。
God promised that he would be a blessing to nations, but he actually brought trouble to。
the land of Jerar.。
In view of all this, he simply must have faith before he could stand firm in face of all。
these trials.。
Today, we too must have faith before we can have victory over all the forces that assemble。
to drive us away from the path of blessing.。
The second great crisis in the history of Israel rose when the Israelites began their。
wandering in the wilderness.。
They had crossed the Red Sea and had been delivered from the land of slavery, but that。
was only the beginning of their salvation.。
They were saved, but saved for what?。
Certainly, they were not saved in order to wander in the wilderness.。
They were wandering away their lives.。
What a tragedy!。
Unless they stopped wandering and crossed the River Jordan, their salvation from Egypt。
would be countenance.。
They would never inherit the land of promise and fulfill God's plan.。
They wandered for 40 years in the wilderness.。
They squandered away most years of their lives in the barrenness of life.。
What a heartache!。
The wandering life is a life without goal and purpose.。
It never gets anywhere.。
It will finish in bitter emptiness.。
But the grace of God did not fail.。
There were Joshua and Caleb and those who followed them in crossing the River Jordan,。
and they inherited the land of promise.。
The third crisis in the history of Israel took place when they faced the issue of choosing。
between Jehovah and man as their king.。
At this most critical hour, they made the tragic decision of enthroning man instead。
of God.。
Man taking the place of God always results in self-centeredness, which is the root of。
all sin and miseries.。
When man rebels against God, he in fact rebels against his own good.。
In rejecting the rule of God, man takes the only alternative left for him, the alternative。
of falling under the tyranny of self.。
The situation of man today is essentially the same as 3,000 years ago when the people。
of Israel made the tragic mistake.。
The modern man is trying his best to get rid of God, and he has indeed set up his own kings。
under whose reign he suffers merciless slavery.。
There is the king of sex, there is the king of drugs, there is the king of violence, there。
is the king of meaninglessness of life.。
Man has become a curse and a burden to himself as well as to others instead of a blessing.。
Today under the cloak of freedom, man is suffering slavery.。
One of the popular slogans today is that man has come of age and has no longer need of。
God.。
Yes, God is dead and man is free, free to fall under the yoke of standardless subjectivism。
and self-centeredness, which has the promise of becoming the worst tyranny ever known yet.。
The fourth crisis, fleeing from the errand of peace.。
God in his grace planned to save the people of the gentile city of Nineveh, and he revealed。
his mind to Jonah.。
God commissioned Jonah as a missionary to take the message of reconciliation to Nineveh,。
but being preoccupied with a narrow and misled patriotism, he fled away from his mission。
and went to Tarshish instead of Nineveh.。
This attitude on the part of Jonah shows how ignorant the people of Israel were in regard。
to their mission.。
It seems that by this time in the history of the chosen people, the significance of。
God's calling to Abraham had more or less completely gone out of their minds.。
It is a great tragedy that Jonah as a prophet should have lost sight of God's main purpose。
in all his plan.。
Jonah was a man of contradictions.。
His name Jonah means a dove, which is symbolic of peace, yet he refused to be a messenger。
of peace.。
He was a prophet who should understand the will of God and obey it and help others to。
obey it, yet he acted contrary to the explicit commandment of God.。
He told the people on board the boat that he knew Jehovah, who was the Lord of heaven。
and earth, yet he would not allow him to be the Lord of his own life.。
He said that he knew the love of God, yet he acted as if the love of God was non-existent.。
God graciously intervened and Jonah learned a great lesson through suffering, but he did。
not really learn the lesson well until he saw the heart of God as recorded in the fourth。
chapter of the book of Jonah.。
In this light, we can easily see that the book of Jonah is one of the greatest books。
of the Bible because it picked up the lost thread of Israel's mission.。
It seems that suffering is almost indispensable in the hand of God as a corrective measure。
for his constantly erring people, both in the Old Testament and in the New.。
As we all well remember, the early church began to spread the gospel outside Jerusalem。
when they were persecuted.。
Does it have to come in that way?。
Do we have to suffer before we obey the will of God?。
The fifth crisis, tower building instead of bridge building.。
In the minds of David and Solomon, the building of the temple was meant to be a bridge, the。
bridge of making known the grace and truth of God to the whole world.。
Solomon, in his dedication prayer for the temple, definitely included the Gentiles among。
the recipients of blessings from the house of God.。
But to the people of Israel, this bridge became a tower, the tower of national pride.。
The Bible tells us that following man's estrangement from God, he began to be interested in tower。
building, of which the tower of Babel was the prototype.。
Man wants to exalt and glorify himself by building himself towers of fame.。
As a result, there are so many high towers that the view of Calvary is completely blocked。
out.。
There are so many tower builders and so few bridge builders that God has a hard time in。
finding people who are willing to be blessing bearers.。
In the history of Israel, the temple became more of a symbol of national self-centeredness。
than that of blessing to others.。
Are we tower builders or bridge builders?。
The sixth crisis, dissociation of election from its purpose.。
The people of Israel were proud of their election as the chosen people of God, but they forgot。
that they were elected for a purpose, the purpose of blessing the whole world through。
them.。
They took the privilege of election and laid aside its purpose.。
This was the fatal dissociation which hindered the plan of God.。
As a matter of fact, the people of Israel were laid aside by God because they laid aside。
their mission.。
The apostle Paul has made it very clear to us in Romans 11 that the people of Israel。
lost their privilege exactly because of this failure, and that God, in his infinite wisdom,。
made use of their failure to bless the whole world by putting the church in their place.。
Shall we commit the same fatal mistake?。
If we believe that we as Christians are the elect people of God, shall we too take the。
privilege and lay aside the responsibility?。
When the apostle Paul talked about predestination, he did so against the background of active。
evangelism. The biblical doctrine of predestination is not merely the statement that some people。
are preordained by God to eternal life, but it is that statement plus active evangelism,。
which is its living context.。
Truth taken out of its living context is no longer truth.。
The doctrine of election as related to the people of Israel and the doctrine of predestination。
as related to Christians have one basic thing in common, that is, both of them mean election。
and mission.。
The seventh crisis, Esther's great decision.。
The destiny of the Israelite people hinged on Esther's decision.。
Whether he chose to care for her own privilege and pleasure in the Persian palace, or she。
preferred risking her life for the good of her people.。
It was only too easy for her to decide on the former, as we often do.。
But the strong and resolute voice of one man of God influenced her and guided her thinking,。
and she made the right decision.。
Her soul was shaken by the challenge of Mordecai, who said to her, "And who knowest whether。
thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this?"。
Then she began to think of her responsibility in the light of her privileged position as。
the queen of the empire, and that altered the whole fate of the people of Israel.。
Yes, it is not exaggerating to say that the right understanding of the balance between。
privilege and responsibility and acting thereupon on the part of the average Christian will。
change the whole course of the Church of Christ today.。
Thank God for having graciously raised up a Mordecaian voice of warning and challenge。
for every generation, so that all Christians may be reminded of their mission.。
I think I'm justified in saying that this convention is one of the major forces in the。
movings of God along the line of carrying out his worldwide mission.。
May God raise up many missionaries in this convention to further his mission of blessing。
near and far.。
