(英文) this morning we are going to conclude our study on the biblical basis of missions by taking up the fourth and last subtitle. The basis of missions in the epistles, that is, the church and missions.。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
(英文)。
She is built on the living word of God, as revealed through three channels, the prophets, the apostles and above all Jesus Christ.。
Her building materials are all living, the living stone which is Christ as the corner stone and the living stones which are born again Christians, and the living word.。
She is inhabited by the living God.。
Every activity in the church should aim at the building up of the members living relationship with God.。
Here again we see something important in regard to missions.。
The goal of missions is not merely to reproduce on the mission fields all the denominations which we have in the homelands with all their dividedness,。
but to establish churches that are built on the pattern of the living word of God,。
where sound spiritual principles are lively employed in worship, government and program.。
Sixth, the church as bride of Christ.。
The apostle Paul calls the union of the church with Christ a great mystery.。
It is indeed a great mystery of love, of which the union of husband and wife is a symbol.。
This illustration of the relationship between the church and Christ is true both corporately and individually.。
Corporately the church as a whole is a bride of Christ.。
Individually every born again Christian is a bride of Christ.。
Second Corinthians 11.2。
The central point of this illustration is union in love.。
Love is more of the heart than the mind.。
And it follows that the Christian life is more of the heart than the mind.。
Mind is very important and it is far from me to belittle the significance of the mind.。
But I do want to point out that in an age that glorifies the mind,。
it is very important for us Christians to keep our faith a matter of the heart rather than the head.。
Of course the either or approach is not ideal.。
The best is both.。
We need both a heart relationship with God and an understanding of the mind.。
That is exactly the answer we find in the Bible.。
I used to appreciate a question poised by a certain scholar.。
He asks,which of the two would you prefer?。
The seraphim which means fire or cherubim which means knowledge?。
But later it dawned upon me when I was reading my Bible one day。
that there was fire right in the center of the cherubim which means knowledge。
as recorded in the first chapter of the book of Ezekiel.。
So knowledge and fire are beautifully united together in the revealed word of God.。
We need both the fire of the heart and the wisdom of the mind.。
Evangelicals today need more training of the mind before they can meet the need today.。
But this is done not at the expense of the deep experience of the heart.。
Every missionary going out to another land must have a deep heart experience of gospel truths。
before they can pass on the living message.。
The mind is often localized but the heart is a universal language which everybody understands.。
Missionaries who go to the mission fields with degrees but without a deep heart experience with Christ。
will fail and come home shattered and disillusioned.。
Seventh,the church as a candlestick.。
Paul speaks of Christians as children of light.。
Five,eight.。
Which reminds us of the apostle John's vision of the seven churches as seven candlesticks.。
The church is meant by God to be a light in the world.。
The light of the gospel is to shine through the church in all the world.。
Sunday light is still the motto of all the missionary minded churches.。
It is still the chorus of the hymn of missions.。
Light is always outreaching and never ingrown.。
Christians and churches that are torch bearers are always aggressive in evangelism and missions.。
On the other hand,when Paul speaks of Christians as children of light,。
he is thinking of their Christ-like character.。
This leads us to another side of our task as light bearers,。
which is sometimes called non-verbal witness.。
Verbal and non-verbal witness constitute the Christian light.。
Eighth,the church as army of Christ.。
The picture of the church as an army is vividly painted by Paul in Ephesians chapter 6.。
The armor of this army consists of both defensive and offensive equipment and weapons.。
The church is to be both defensive and offensive.。
She is both conservative and progressive.。
She defends and conserves purity of doctrine and purity of character,。
but it also moves on in an offensive attack on Satan and sin,。
as well as in an active and aggressive evangelism to bring people to God's side of the battle.。
Where does the church of Christ stand in an anti-traditional age like ours?。
She is anti all things that are anti-Christ,。
and she is most conservative in keeping the true Christian heritage.。
What is the true Christian heritage?。
It is found in the Lord's letters to the seven churches in Asia Minor。
as recorded in the book of Revelation chapters 2 and 3.。
The Lord commended the victorious Christians in these churches。
for a number of things which constitute the precious Christian heritage.。
It is a sevenfold heritage.。
Purity of doctrine and the first love as exemplified by the Ephesian church.。
Boldness and firmness in face of persecution。
as expressed by the church at Smyrna.。
Good works as found in the church at Thyatira.。
Emphasis on spirituality rather than on form。
as exhibited by the victorious members of the church at Sardis.。
Purity of character as represented by the white garment。
worn by the remnant in the church at Sardis.。
Obedience and faith in evangelism and missions。
as shown by the church at Philadelphia.。
This sevenfold heritage is the true mainstream of Christianity。
and it is behind this holy tradition that we firmly stand.。
We have noticed that one of the seven points just mentioned above。
is taking hold of every open door。
and entering into it with evangelism and missions.。
This is part of our great heritage and we must uphold.。
As the army of Christ, let us march on with believing and bold evangelism and missions。
to the utmost part of the world.。
B. The urgency of the church's mission.。
The mission of the church is urgent because in the first place。
the gospel is the only way of salvation.。
The gospel is the only way of salvation.。
The apostle Paul says in his first epistle to Timothy。
there is one God and one mediator between God and men。
the man Christ Jesus who gave himself a ransom for all.。
1 Timothy 2.5。
This is in keeping with Peter's preaching when he said。
there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved.。
Acts 4.12。
The claim of the gospel of Christ as the only way of salvation。
is clearly stated in the gospels and in the epistles.。
This is what we believe and proclaim.。
In an age of relativism and syncretism like ours。
the voice of universalism and self-salvation is strong.。
Probably the two strongest philosophies or thought forms。
in universities all over the world today。
are logical positivism and relativism。
as some well-known scholars have pointed out.。
The former denies the possibility of knowing things as they really are.。
If anything is considered to be known, it is only known in the laboratory.。
There is no knowledge besides scientific knowledge.。
Relativism tries to make everything relative.。
When relative is carried into theology, it has given birth to four forms of thought.。
A new conception of God, new morality, new evangelism and new secularism.。
In the new concept of God, God himself is made relative.。
Instead of the great I am, he has become the God of becoming.。
In the new morality, morals are made relative with no absolute standard except love,。
which in turn is left to relative and subjective interpretations.。
In new evangelism, the absolute finality of Christ in salvation is made relative.。
In new secularism, the sacred are made relative。
and as a result we are left with a religionless Christianity.。
Over against this relativism, we have the biblical claim of the gospel of Christ。
as the only way of salvation.。
If we really believe in this absolute claim of the gospel,。
we have to act in accordance with it.。
True faith always involves action.。
Conviction in faith and indifference in action are never compatible with each other.。
The logic of the urgency of evangelism and missions。
is readily established by the absolute claim of the gospel.。
It is becoming more and more evident。
that only Bible-believing Christians are really concerned。
with the carrying out of the Great Commission.。
We all agree with Paul when he says,。
"Whosoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved."。
But how do we react when we hear Paul continue to say,。
"How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed?。
"And how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard?。
"And how shall they hear without a preacher?。
"And how shall they preach except they be sent?"。
Shall we add here,。
"How can we send except there are those who are willing to go?"。
Second, loyalty and faithfulness to the Lord's Commission.。
We find a good example for loyalty and faithfulness to the Lord's Commission。
in the life of Paul.。
Paul was very clear about the Lord's Commission to him。
which he received at his conversion.。
He mentions this commission many times in his epistles。
as well as in his testimonies as recorded in the Book of Acts.。
How did he carry out his commission?。
He said to the Colossian Christians。
that he rejoiced in his sufferings。
as a commissioned minister of the gospel among the Gentiles.。
He said to the Corinthian Christians。
that in his ministry as a commissioner of the gospel。
he fainted not,。
troubled on every side yet not distressed,。
perplexed but not in despair,。
persecuted but not forsaken,。
cast down but not destroyed,。
always bearing the body,。
the dying of the Lord Jesus,。
that the life also of Jesus。
might be made manifest in his body.。
He said to Timothy,。
"I am appointed a preacher and an apostle。
and a teacher of the Gentiles,。
for the which cause I also suffer these things.。
Nevertheless I am not ashamed."。
He said to the elders of the Ephesian church,。
"The Holy Spirit witnesses in every city,。
saying that bonds and afflictions abide me,。
but none of these things move me,。
neither count I my life dear unto myself,。
so that I might finish my cause with joy。
and the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus。
to testify the gospel of the grace of God."。
What wonderful words from the lips of a dedicated missionary!。
Probably the best two illustrations。
of Paul's tremendous spirit of commitment。
to his commission are found in the Book of Acts.。
We find in chapter 14, verses 19 to 21。
that Paul was stoned by the people of the city of Lystra.。
They took Paul for dead。
and pulled him out of the city.。
It is possible that Paul was dead,。
but God raised him to life again.。
What did he do after he came to himself?。
He went back into the very city。
where he had been treated so brutally.。
What for?。
Just to boast of his wonderful recovery?。
There could be only one reason,。
and that is Paul was deeply concerned。
about the spiritual need of those people。
and he wanted to preach the gospel to them.。
We read in the following verse。
that Paul was back in the city of Lystra。
for the third time in a short time later.。
What bravery and what spirit of commitment!。
The other illustration is recorded。
in Acts chapter 24, verses 24 and 25.。
Here we see Paul brought before the Roman governor,。
Felix, for trial.。
Paul took this opportunity to witness to gospel truth。
What did Paul say?。
It is recorded here in this passage.。
He reasoned of righteousness, temperance,。
and judgment to come.。
Paul knew that Felix was a governor。
who was used to receiving large brides,。
yet he talked about righteousness.。
He knew that Felix was living with a Jewish woman。
who was not his wife,。
yet he talked about temperance.。
He knew that his life was in the hand of Felix,。
yet he talked about the judgment of God.。
What bravery!。
Paul knew very well that it was dangerous for him。
to talk about these things before a man like Felix,。
but out of a sense of faithfulness to his commission,。
as well as out of a desire to awaken Felix。
to his spiritual need,。
he ignored the danger and rose up to his duty.。
Again I say what faithfulness and commitment?。
It is recorded here that the Roman governor。
trembled before the spiritual giant.。
Paul tells us that we as Christians。
are also commissioned by God.。
He says in 2 Corinthians 5, verse 19,。
God was in Christ,。
reconciling the world unto himself,。
not imputing their trespasses unto them,。
and has committed unto us the word of reconciliation.。
All Christians are commissioned ambassadors。
for the great task of reconciliation,。
the task of bringing people back to God。
through evangelism and missions.。
Third, the sure judgment of God.。
The apostle Paul had a sense of urgency。
in his missions,。
which stems from his sureness。
of the judgment of God.。
Paul says,。
knowing the terror of the Lord,。
we persuade men.。
2 Corinthians 5, verse 11.。
Paul's concept of his mission is universal。
because he says,。
Now we know that what things。
soever the law saith,。
it saith to them that are under the law,。
that every mouth may be stopped,。
and all the world may become guilty before God.。
Therefore by the deeds of the law,。
there shall no flesh be justified in his sight.。
The whole world lies under the judgment of God,。
so the whole world needs。
the gospel of grace through Christ.。
Paul experienced great stirring of his spirit at Athens,。
and he said to the people gathered at Areopagus,。
Now God commandeth all men everywhere to repent,。
because he hath appointed a day。
in the which he will judge the world in righteousness。
by that man whom he hath ordained.。
Acts 17, verses 30 and 31.。
Evangelism is often linked together。
with the judgment of God in the epistles of Paul.。
For instance,。
Paul says in 2 Timothy, chapter 4, verse 1,。
I charge thee therefore before God and the Lord Jesus,。
who shall judge the quick and the dead。
at his appearing and his kingdom,。
preach the word,。
be instant in schism and out of schism.。
Here we have three things,。
evangelism,judgment,and a sense of urgency.。
If we really believe that all men will be judged by Christ。
according to their relationship with him,。
we will be serious with evangelism and missions,。
seizing at every opportunity to preach the gospel.。
Fourth, ardent desire to glorify God.。
Deep down in his heart,。
Paul had a strong desire to glorify God。
by bringing more people to God to sing his praise.。
He says in Romans, 15, verses 19 to 11,。
that the Gentiles may glorify God for his mercy。
as it is written,。
for this cause I will confess to thee。
among the Gentiles I sing unto thy name.。
Again Paul says in 2 Corinthians, 4, 15,。
that the abundant grace might through the thanksgiving。
of many people redound to the glory of God.。
This verse means that the more Christians there are,。
the more will God be glorified.。
This desire in the heart of Paul。
is a good illustration of the Lord's teaching on prayer.。
The foremost thought in our prayer should be,。
according to the Lord's prayer,。
Hallowed be thy name.。
The only way to realize this desire。
is to bring more and more people to God,。
because the name of God is hallowed。
only among those who know him。
and worship him and praise him.。
When Paul saw the city of Athens full of idols,。
his spirit was greatly stirred。
because the glory of God was robbed.。
This ardent desire to glorify God。
is a strong impetus for evangelism missions。
in the life of Paul, so with us.。
Fifth,。
constrained by the love of Christ to share.。
Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5, 14,。
The love of Christ constraineth us,。
because we thus judge that if one died for all,。
then we're all dead,。
and that he died for all,。
that they which live should not henceforth。
live unto themselves,。
but unto him which died for them and rose again.。
Paul says here that。
we are constrained by the love of Christ。
not to live for ourselves,。
but to live for him who died for us.。
But how do we live for him?。
Paul tells us in the following verse。
that we live for him by engaging ourselves。
in the task of the reconciliation,。
bringing people into peace with God.。
Greek scholars tell us。
that the Greek word for the English word。
constrain is a strong word,。
suggesting the idea of a flood.。
Paul's heart was, as it were,。
flooded by the love of Christ,。
and he was moved away from himself,。
and he began to live for Christ,。
engaging himself in the task。
of sharing the love of Christ with others。
through evangelism and missions.。
It is impossible to engage ourselves。
in missions without this constraint.。
Ari Jaffrey,。
the co-founder of the Alliance Bible Seminary,。
where I'm teaching now,。
went to South China as a missionary。
over 70 years ago.。
He suffered from a weak heart。
and he had diabetes,。
but his day usually began at 4 a.m.,。
4 o'clock in the morning.。
After his personal devotional time,。
he would begin writing articles in Chinese。
for the Bible magazine。
of which he was the editor.。
He designed a special kind of desk。
which could be pulled over his bed。
so that he could write lying down in bed。
in order to conserve his strength.。
After 30 years of service in South China,。
God called him to go to Vietnam。
for pioneering work.。
He went and began the work。
which has now grown。
to a membership of 60,000 Christians.。
Again,God called him to go to Indonesia,。
where he had to start all over again.。
He obeyed and started a rapidly growing work。
until his death in Japanese concentration camp.。
He was constrained by the love of Christ.。
Sixth,the second coming of Christ.。
In the epistles,。
evangelism and missions are closely associated。
with the second coming of Christ.。
To the evangelical mind,。
the second coming of Christ。
is always an incentive to evangelism and missions.。
This concept has a sound basis in the epistles,。
which in turn has its origin。
in the teaching of Christ.。
The apostle Peter speaks of the second coming of Christ。
and God's desire to save more people。
in the same sentence.。
2 Peter 3.9。
God wants to have his plan of salvation completed。
before the second coming of Christ.。
The apostle Paul speaks of the fullness of the Gentiles。
against the background of the second coming of Christ.。
Romans 11.25。
All this is in good keeping。
with the teaching of Christ himself。
in Matthew 24.14 where he says,。
This gospel of the kingdom。
shall be preached in all the world。
for a witness unto all nations,。
and then shall the end come.。
In the light of this verse,。
missions has to do with the hastening。
of the second coming of Christ.。
There are many signs。
which indicate that。
the second coming of Christ。
is getting nearer and nearer.。
But instead of reaching the climax of world missions,。
we are experiencing an anti-climax.。
The evil one is getting busier and busier。
in putting up hindrances to God's plan.。
His tactics are twofold,。
without the church and within the church.。
Without the church,。
Satan is hardening and blinding。
the inner eyes of more and more people。
against the light of the gospel of Christ.。
Within the church,。
he is setting up mechanisms。
that create in the minds of Christians。
the impression that the day of missions is over,。
and there isn't much that they can do.。
As a result of all this,。
there are signs of a slackening of pace。
in the missionary efforts in the western countries.。
But over against this,。
the Lord is organizing a double counterattack.。
On the one hand,。
he is rallying together all Bible-believing Christians。
for a renewed missionary movement.。
On the other,。
he is awakening the younger churches。
in the so-called "Third World"。
to realize their missionary responsibilities.。
Probably the fact that。
you find names from the Third World。
in the list of speakers at this convention。
is a prophetic indication。
that the East and the West are going to join forces。
for the great task of missions.。
We are running the last mile again, I say,。
in the world missionary enterprise.。
It is a hard mile,。
but it is a challenge。
to our loyalty and faithfulness。
and commitment to the Great Commission.。
See the consummation.。
God is a God of perfect plan.。
All his plans will be fulfilled.。
The word "fullness"。
used in connection with the plans of God。
is very precious.。
God accomplishes all his plans。
at the fullness of time.。
For instance,。
the incarnation of Christ took place。
when the fullness of the time has come.。
Galatians 4.4.。
It did not happen by chance.。
God had made perfect plans for it in history.。
Paul uses this word "fullness"。
in regard to God's plan for the people of Israel.。
He says in Romans 11.25,。
"Blindness in part is happened to Israel。
until the fullness of the Gentiles become in,。
and so all Israel shall be saved."。
God has not forsaken his chosen people,。
but has a wonderful plan of salvation for them.。
There is perfect timing.。
Even as God delivered his people。
from the Babylonian captivity。
at the fullness of the prophesied 70 years,。
which,Lord, looked impossible at the time。
because of adverse circumstances,。
so will God save them again。
at the fullness of the Gentiles.。
Christ himself uses this word "fullness"。
in regard to his second coming.。
He says,。
"They shall fall by the edge of the sword。
and shall be led away captive into all nations,。
and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles。
until the fullness,。
the fullness of the times of the Gentiles."。
Luke 21.24.。
The Lord said this in the context of his prophecies。
about his second coming.。
Even as God made plans for the first coming of Christ,。
so has God made perfect plans for his second coming,。
which is the hope of the Church.。
Everything is leading to that glorious event in history.。
The prophets foretold it,。
the Lord himself confirmed it,。
the apostles proclaimed it,。
all signs today are pointing to it.。
Biblical evangelism and missions。
are filled with significance。
in view of the second coming of Christ.。
Missions are not doomed to failure,。
but to a glorious consummation。
as recorded in the book of Revelation,。
chapter 7, verses 9 and 10.。
"Lo, a great multitude,。
which no man can number,。
of all nations and kindreds。
and people and tongues,。
stood before the throne and before the Lamb,。
clothed with white robes and palms in their hands,。
and cried with a loud voice,。
saying, 'Salvation to our God,。
which sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb!'。
This is the vision of the apostle John,。
and it is also ours.。
But before and leading to the final realization。
of this glorious vision,。
you and I have the task of evangelism。
我們有宗教和任務在我們肩上。。
