The subject for our meditation this morning before the throne of grace is seven visions of spiritual fire in the Bible.。
Seven visions of spiritual fire in the Bible.。
Now today we are living in an age of fire.。
The fire of wars, the fire of carnal desires.。
It is the will of God that we as his children should be in possession of a different kind of fire.。
The fire of faith, the fire of prayer, the fire of dedication, the fire of hope and above all the fire of the Holy Spirit.。
It is with this kind of spiritual fire that we are able to overcome the carnal fires and the worldly fires.。
We find at least seven visions of spiritual fire in the Bible which are full of significance and meaning for the Christian life.。
And this morning we are going to have a brief study of them.。
In the first place there is the vision of the fire of the glory of God.。
Will you please turn to your Bibles to the book of Ezekiel chapter 1 verses 26 to 28.。
Ezekiel 1 verses 26 to 28.。
I am reading from King James Version which may be of use with you but in use with me.。
Beginning with verse 26.。
And above the firmament that was over their heads was the likeness of a throne as the appearance of a sapphire stone.。
And upon the likeness of the throne was the likeness as the appearance of a man above upon it.。
And I saw as the color of amber as the appearance of fire round about within it from the appearance of his loins even upward.。
And from the appearance of his loins even downward I saw as it were the appearance of fire and it had brightness round about.。
As the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud in the day of rain so was the appearance of the brightness round about.。
This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord.。
Now we find here that the two most outstanding factors of this vision of the glory of the Lord are the fire and the rainbow.。
As you know the fire is symbolic of the holiness and judgment and righteousness of God.。
While the rainbow represents the grace of God.。
So the righteousness and the grace of God or the fire and the rainbow constitute the glory of God.。
And it is most important for us to find in the book of Ezekiel that this vision of the glory of the Lord brought about the greatest turning point in the life and ministry of the prophet Ezekiel.。
This vision changed his whole life and his whole outlook.。
Ever since he saw this vision the glory of the Lord became the motivating power in his life.。
And he began to have a longing for the realization of the glory of God in the lives of his own people.。
He came to see everything in the light of the glory of the Lord.。
For instance in the book of Ezekiel the vision of the glory of the Lord is immediately contrasted to three things.。
First to the abominations and temple of God in Jerusalem.。
Second to the sins of the common people.。
And third to the evil doings of the officials of the leaders of the people.。
Now this sharp contrast reveals the ugliness of the sins of the people of Israel to him in his true perspectives.。
In chapter 8 verse 2 we read, "I beheld and lo, a likeness as the appearance of fire."。
Now this is the vision of the glory of God.。
And then immediately we read in the following verse, verse 3.。
The spirit brought me in the vision of the Lord to Jerusalem to the door of the inner gate,。
where was the seat of the image of jealousy which provoketh to jealousy.。
Now this refers to the abominations in the house of God.。
Again in chapter 9 verse 3, the vision of the glory of the Lord is immediately followed a description of the sins of the common people.。
The same pattern occurs in chapter 10 verse 20 and onward.。
So this failure made Ezekiel's heart very very heavy.。
Because all these things contradicted the glory of the Lord.。
We find the burdened heart of Ezekiel in chapter 3 verses 14 and 15.。
Verse chapter 3 verses 14 and 15.。
And I went in bitterness in the heat of my spirit, but the hand of the Lord was strong on me.。
Then I came to them of the captivity, and I sat where they sat, and remained astonished among them seven days.。
Now please notice the words bitterness, the heat of my spirit, astonished.。
Now these are words charged with deep emotions which have risen from a mixed source.。
From his indignation against the sinful ways of his own people, from his reluctance to proclaim to them God's judgment on them,。
and from his deep desire to save them from the coming calamities.。
Now all this is the outcome of his vision of the glory of God.。
There was created in his heart a strong desire to pass on this vision of the glory of God to his own people,。
and correct the things that acted against the glory of God.。
The vision of the glory of God not only changed the life and ministry of Ezekiel,。
but indeed it has changed the life of everyone that saw it as recorded in the Bible.。
The apostle Paul saw it on his way to Damascus, and he fell to the ground.。
He rose up a completely different man.。
His outward eyes were blinded, but his inner eyes were opened.。
Saul fell, but Paul rose.。
Peter, John, and James saw the glory of God on the Mount of Transfiguration,。
and there he fell on their faces, and Peter said, "It is good to be here."。
There was created in their minds and hearts a strong desire to abide with the Lord of Glory.。
John the Baptist saw the vision of the glory of God, and he said, "He must increase, and I must decrease."。
John the Apostle saw the glory of God on the Isle of Patmos,。
and he sang victory in face of trials and persecution.。
Steven saw the glory of God when he was being stoned to death by the angry Jews,。
and then his heart was filled with divine love,。
and he prayed the same kind of prayer as the Lord did on the cross,。
and he expressed the most wondrous victory over bitterness of heart and death.。
So the vision of the glory of God did wondrous things to them,。
and it will do the same thing for us.。
It is also interesting to find in the book of Ezekiel 9, verse 4,。
that there were people in the city of Jerusalem who wept for the iniquities of that city,。
and on their foreheads the messenger of God made a special mark。
to indicate that they were favored people of God.。
They were the people that had the same heart of God as God.。
They had the heart of God.。
They hated the things that God hated,。
and they loved the things that God loved.。
We find three special kinds of people in the Bible。
on whose foreheads God has made a special mark。
to indicate that they have special relationship with God.。
We find them in the book of Revelation, chapter 3, verse 12.。
We are told here that they are the people that obey the word of God.。
They have entered into the doors of opportunity as the Lord opens it for them.。
They have become the pillars of the house of God,。
having made great contributions to the cause of Christ.。
We find these people in the book of Revelation, chapter 14, the first verses.。
These are the people who have followed Jesus Christ all the way,。
who have dedicated their lives to the Lord without any reservation.。
Again, we find them in Ezekiel, chapter 9, verse 4, which we just mentioned,。
and they are the people who have the heart of God in them,。
who wept for the iniquities of the people of God in the city of Jerusalem,。
hating what God hated, loving what God loved.。
We pray that we may have a share of their experience.。
The second vision is the vision of the burning bush,。
or the vision of the fire of continual burning zeal for God.。
We find this vision in Exodus, chapter 3, verses 1 to 5.。
Now here we have the vision that God gave to Moses,。
the vision of a bush burning with fire, yet not consumed by the fire.。
This vision has a threefold significance.。
In the first place, it is symbolic of God's preserving power and grace for his people.。
The bush represents the people of God,。
while the fire represents persecution and trial.。
The people of God were going through fiery persecutions and trials in the land of Egypt,。
but God preserved them.。
God was able to preserve them from all this.。
In the second place, this vision was not only true with the people of Israel at the time of Moses,。
but also true with the whole history of the people of Israel.。
Again and again, down through the centuries,。
the people of Israel have gone through fiery persecutions in history.。
And it is nothing short of a miracle that they have not been wiped out of history completely.。
God has preserved them.。
In Hong Kong, my heart was greatly encouraged。
as I watched the news on the TV about the parade of Christians in the streets in the city of Moscow, Russia.。
Thousands and thousands of Christians joined the parade,。
among whom were many young people,。
in spite of pressure and persecution.。
God is able, God is able to preserve his people.。
God has preserved over 10,000 churches in Russia.。
Last February, I was in West Germany at invitation to speak at meetings during what they called the Missions Week,。
one week in the south and another in the north.。
And during that time I stayed with the Lutheran pastor of the state church.。
This pastor has written a book about the situation of Christians in Russia.。
And I asked him a question.。
I said, "How many Christians do you think are there in Russia?。
20 millions?"。
He said, "No, there must be 50 millions of them."。
I was surprised to hear that.。
God is able, God is able to preserve his people。
under any circumstance.。
Two years ago, a member of my church, a young man,。
went to a seminary to train as a full-time Christian worker.。
The main factor in his decision to become a full-time Christian worker。
was his experience in South China.。
Now over two years ago, he went to Canton, South China,。
to visit his relatives there.。
And he managed to bring with him nine Bibles.。
He got them through.。
And there he gave them to his relatives and his friends.。
To his great surprise, he discovered that the young people in Canton。
were very responsive to the gospel.。
So he made three trips in a few months' time.。
He experienced the gospel as the power of God unto salvation.。
As a result of this experience,。
he made up his mind to become a full-time Christian worker.。
Again I say, God is able.。
In the third place, this version is also symbolic of God's。
provision for the personal need of Moses.。
God enabled Moses to serve him with continued burning zeal.。
Moses had a burning love for God and for his fellow people.。
He loved God and he loved his fellow people.。
He served them faithfully.。
He burned in all his service.。
God sustained his burning zeal for him during those 40 long years.。
He was kept faithful to God during that time, all that time.。
God preserved his burning zeal for him.。
A number of years ago, I went to Tokyo for meetings.。
Now after one of the meetings, a Chinese gentleman came up to speak to me.。
I never dreamed that I would meet him there.。
He was one of my schoolmates during our junior high school days。
in our hometown in north China, Qingdao City.。
Then he told me the wonderful story of his conversion。
in which I saw the fire of zeal in witnessing for the Lord.。
When the war broke out between China and Japan,。
he fled away from our hometown in the north。
and went further and farther and farther south。
until he settled down in the city of Canton。
in the southernmost province of China.。
There he entered into a medical college.。
When he was a third year medical student,。
he was down with a serious case of TB.。
Then because of further developments of the war,。
he was transferred to another hospital further inland。
where after close examination,。
he was laid aside as a hopeless case of TB.。
He was laid in a special room waiting for death.。
But there, every morning, a doctor, a Christian doctor,。
came to see him to pray for him.。
And one day, the doctor knelt down by his bedside and prayed for him.。
And after he had left,。
he noticed that his bedside was wet with tears.。
He was deeply moved as well as puzzled.。
He thought to himself,。
"This doctor is no relative of mine, nor a friend.。
Why should he have prayed for me like this?"。
He was deeply moved, and his heart was opened,。
and he accepted Jesus Christ as his personal Savior.。
And then a great miracle happened.。
He was completely healed in a few days' time.。
And then he got up from his deathbed。
and he began to witness to the Lord in the various wars.。
Two great miracles happened that time.。
The first one was the miracle of healing.。
The other, the miracle of burning love for others,。
which is a greater miracle.。
And I've been able to verify this fact。
through another friend who was there during the war years.。
He told me the name of the doctor.。
I'm glad that it's a true story.。
The third vision is the vision of the fire of sanctification。
leading to renewed dedication.。
The vision of the fire of sanctification。
leading to renewed dedication.。
Isaiah chapter 6, verses 1 to 8.。
We're all so familiar with this vision.。
In this vision, the prophet Isaiah was cleansed。
by a piece of burning coal from the altar.。
And this resulted in his renewed dedication.。
He cried out to God, "Here am I. Send me."。
Now before this experience, the prophet Isaiah。
had been already serving God.。
But this experience of sanctification。
brought him into a fuller dedication,。
a deeper fellowship with God,。
a more fruitful ministry, and a more useful life.。
In my study of the book Revelation,。
I've discovered something which has been。
a great inspiration and help to me ever since.。
I discovered a number of years ago。
that in the wonderful symbolism。
employed by the Holy Spirit in the book of Revelation,。
God himself is represented as Jasper in chapter 4.。
And then in chapter 21,。
the overall glory of the city of New Jerusalem。
is described as Jasper.。
And once again, the walls of the city of New Jerusalem。
are built with Jasper.。
And yet again, the first foundation。
of the city of New Jerusalem is Jasper.。
So Jasper, Jasper, Jasper, Jasper.。
Now why so much of Jasper?。
Is it because that the apostle John。
had a special fancy for Jasper?。
As we all know, Jasper is symbolic。
of holiness and heavenliness.。
Now this symbolism teaches us that。
God is holy, and everything about God is holy,。
and we as his people must be holy too.。
When we are purged of all things。
that are unworthy of Christ,。
we become vessels of honor,。
meat for the master's use.。
May God bring about this deeper experience。
of sanctification in the lives。
of every one of us here.。
The fourth vision is the vision。
of the fire of victory.。
2 Kings chapter 6 verse 13.。
2 Kings chapter 6 verse 13.。
We find here that。
when the prophet Elijah and his servant。
were surrounded by chariots and horsemen,。
Elisha said to his servant,。
"Fear not, for they that be with us。
are more than they that be with them."。
Then he prayed for his servant,。
and then God opened his eyes,。
and he saw chariots and horses of fire。
round about Elisha.。
The same kind of vision occurred。
when Elijah, the master of Elisha,。
was caught up to God in a chariot of fire.。
So this is the vision of fire by spiritual power.。
It is most interesting to find in the Bible。
that both Elijah and Elisha。
are called by a very special name.。
They are called the chariot of Israel。
and the horsemen thereof.。
What a wonderful name.。
Now that is exactly what these two men of God。
meant to the nation of Israel.。
They brought strength and victory。
to the people of God.。
They were equivalent to thousands and thousands。
of horsemen and chariots。
because they were men of God,。
men of faith, men of prayer,。
men of dedication,。
and men filled with the power of the Holy Spirit.。
Now I want to say emphatically today。
that it is the will of God。
that there should be a revival。
of the spirit of Elijah。
in the last days before the second coming。
of Jesus Christ our Lord.。
Now this statement is based on。
Revelation chapter 11 verse 3。
which talks about the coming of Elijah。
which talks about the two witnesses。
one of whom is generally identified。
as the prophet Elijah.。
Elijah will come back again.。
Now there are different interpretations。
of the coming of Elijah into the world again.。
There are people who say。
Elijah will come back in person.。
Others say no.。
Someone like Elijah will come back to the world。
as in the case of John the Baptist。
as Elijah before the first coming of the Lord.。
Still others say it means。
a new emphasis on the witness to Christ。
by the prophets of whom。
Elijah was the chief representative.。
But what I want to point out。
emphatically this morning is this.。
In any case,a revival of the spirit of Elijah is involved.。
Let me repeat that.。
In any case,however you interpret this verse,。
there is one point involved.。
That is,a revival of the spirit of Elijah。
before the second coming of Jesus Christ.。
So we are justified in saying。
it is the will of God。
that there should be,。
there should be a revival of the spirit of Elijah。
in these last days。
before the second coming of Jesus Christ.。
Now what is the spirit of Elijah?。
When I think of Elijah,I think of fire.。
The fire of his faith,。
the fire of his prayer,。
the fire of his dedication。
and the fire of the Holy Spirit in his life.。
This is exactly what we need today.。
We need a revival of Elijah's spirit of faith。
in an age of unbelief.。
We need a revival of Elijah's spirit of prayer。
in an age when praying Christians。
are getting less and less,fewer and fewer.。
We need a revival of Elijah's spirit of dedication。
in an age when many,many Christians。
are self-centered,。
egoistically minded。
and materialistically oriented.。
We do need,we do need a call,。
a general call,a universal call。
for revival of the spirit of Elijah today。
in your life and mine。
and in the general life of the Christian churches。
across the whole world.。
The fifth vision is the vision of the fire of service.。
We find this again in the first chapter。
of the book of Ezekiel.。
Ezekiel 1.。
Here we have the vision of the four living creatures.。
The four living creatures represent a two-fold,。
has a two-fold meaning.。
In the first place,。
it's symbolic of redeemed humanity。
as exhibited in the life of Jesus Christ.。
In the second place,。
they are a special kind of angels。
representing the ideal service of God.。
So they represent both the redeemed humanity。
as exhibited in the life of Christ。
and ideal service of God.。
Now in verse 13 of this chapter,。
we find that there is fire。
in the four living creatures.。
Two kinds of fire,。
coal fire and lamp fire.。
Now coal fire is symbolic of the righteousness。
and judgment of God。
as explained to us in chapter 10 verse 2.。
And the lamp fire indicates the light。
that the truth of God throws into their service.。
But in addition to these two meanings。
of the fire in the four living creatures,。
there is another meaning。
which is suggested naturally to us。
by this fire in the four living creatures,。
and that is the fire of service,。
which reminds us of the words of Paul,。
"Servant in the spirit, serving the Lord always,"。
according to the Chinese Bible.。
"Be fervent in spirit, serving the Lord always."。
The fire of service.。
As you know,。
there are two kinds of special angels in the Bible,。
the seraphim and the cherubim.。
The word seraphim means fire。
and the word cherubim means knowledge.。
And since these two kinds of angels。
represent the ideal service of God,。
so it is only evident。
that it is the will of God。
that there should be the combination。
of fire and knowledge in our service for Him.。
There should be a combination。
of fire and knowledge in our service for God.。
We do not only serve Him with cold knowledge,。
no, but also with fire.。
Not only fire, but also knowledge.。
Both are needed.。
My heart is thrilled。
whenever I see a professor of theology。
preaching with real faith and conviction。
and spirit of dedication.。
I always praise God whenever I see that,。
and I look for that.。
That's the kind of people that we need today.。
Serving God with a combination,。
a precious combination of fire and knowledge.。
The sixth vision is the vision of the fire of prayer.。
Revelation chapter 8, verses 3 to 5.。
Revelation 8, verses 3 to 5.。
And another angel came and stood at the altar。
having a golden censer.。
And there was given unto him much incense。
that he should offer it with the prayers。
of all saints upon the golden altar。
which was before the throne.。
And the smoke of the incense。
which came with the prayers of the saints。
ascended up before God out of the angel's hand.。
And the angel took the censer。
and filled it with fire of the altar。
and cast it into the earth.。
And there, there were voices。
and thundering, thunderings and lightnings。
and an earthquake.。
We see here an angel。
filling the golden censer with fire。
and casting it into the earth.。
And then things begin to happen。
in relation to the outworking,。
outcarrying of God's plan of salvation on earth.。
As you know, the golden censer。
is symbolic of the prayer of Christ。
as well as the prayer of the people of Christ.。
We are told here that。
when the fire of prayer is kindled。
things begin to happen。
in relation to the outcarrying。
of God's plan of salvation.。
So this vision teaches us。
the most important lesson。
that there is a close relationship。
between our prayer。
and the outcarrying of the plan of God.。
I was privileged to be present。
at Explosive 74 in Seoul, Korea.。
And I was invited to speak。
to 6,000 Korean pastors。
morning after morning for four mornings.。
And I remember when I arrived。
for the third morning,。
I arrived to discover。
that the place was half empty.。
I wondered why.。
Then I was told a great, great fact.。
The pastor said last night。
600,000 Christians gathered together。
for an all-night prayer meeting.。
Please listen.。
600,000.。
No, I have not made a mistake.。
600,000 Korean Christians。
met for an all-night prayer meeting.。
So half of the pastors。
were still sleeping that morning。
when I arrived.。
That was the first time。
I ever thanked God。
for a half-empty place.。
A Korean pastor said to me,。
Now, Pastor Ten,。
if 600,000 Christians。
have gathered to pray like that,。
God is bound to do something special。
not only for Korea,。
but for the whole world.。
I believe in it.。
Some people have asked me,。
Now, what's the result of this。
praying of the Korean Christians?。
It has been reported。
that the rate of the growth。
of the Christian community in Korea。
is four times faster。
than that of the growth。
of the population of Korea.。
That's the only place in the whole world。
that this happens,。
four times faster。
with the growth。
of Christian community in Korea.。
Praise God for that.。
This is a great testimony。
to the whole world。
and to all Christians across the world.。
We are called upon。
to have a revival of believing prayer。
in these last days.。
God needs it.。
And you and I need it.。
And the Church of Christ needs it.。
And finally,。
the vision of the fire of the Holy Spirit,。
which we find in the book。
Revelation chapter 4, verse 5.。
Now, this vision is called。
the vision of the seven lamps of fire。
before the throne of God.。
And the meaning of this vision。
is explained to us clearly。
in this verse itself.。
This represents the seven spirits of God,。
which in turn means。
the complete ministry of the Holy Spirit.。
This fire of the Holy Spirit。
reminds us of the Pentecostal scene.。
Three things happened。
at the coming of the Holy Spirit。
at Pentecost.。
First, a rushing mighty wind,。
symbolic of power,。
and a strong breath of new life,。
which the believers,。
the apostles, the disciples experienced.。
Second, there were tons, tons of fire。
falling on the heads of the disciples,。
representing burning witnessing for the Lord.。
And third, there was the phenomena。
of speaking with tongues,。
which was a prophetic picture。
of the fact that。
under the power of the Holy Spirit,。
the gospel of Christ would be preached。
in all the parts of the world。
where various tongues are spoken.。
When this was first revealed to me,。
oh, my heart was filled with praise.。
Lord, I praise Thee。
for giving us this prophetic picture。
of things to happen,。
things that are happening today。
before our own eyes。
were given to us。
in this prophetic picture。
two thousand years ago.。
If we say Jesus Christ。
is both the author and finisher of our faith,。
then we can say the Holy Spirit。
is both the author and finisher。
of Christian missions.。
We have nothing to fear。
in evangelism and the missions。
because the Holy Spirit promotes it。
and He will finish it.。
The Lord thinks so much of the Holy Spirit。
that He virtually forbade His disciples。
to start their work。
before they had been endued from power on high.。
The Lord said to His disciples,。
"Ye shall receive power。
after that the Holy Spirit is come upon you.。
Then you'll be my witnesses。
from Jerusalem right to the ends。
of the earth."。
The Lord also said something to His disciples。
which at the time they could not understand.。
As recorded in the book of John chapter 14, verse 12,。
"The Lord said to them,。
'The things that I do ye shall do also,。
and greater things than these shall ye do;。
for I go to my Father.'。
The Lord went to His Father,。
and the Holy Spirit came down,。
and in the power of the Holy Spirit。
the disciples of Jesus Christ。
were enabled to do greater things。
than Jesus Himself had done on earth.。
They understood it later on.。
It has been proved to be true.。
Under the power of the Holy Spirit,。
the gospel has spread to the ends of the world.。
This is a testimony to us。
to strengthen our faith today.。
So there should be a universal call。
for a renewed emphasis。
on the power and working of the Holy Spirit。
in our personal lives。
as well as in the general life。
of the Christian church everywhere.。
These are the seven visions of fire。
which we find in the Bible.。
And it is our united prayer,。
heartfelt prayer,。
Lord, send down Thy fire on us。
that we may continually burn for Thee.。
