Biblical Basis of Missions. This morning we have come to our second subtitle, the。
basis of missions in the Gospels, that is Christ and missions. My message this。
morning is divided into three parts. First, Christ as a missionary. Second,。
Christ's teaching on the kingdom of God and missions. Third, the Great Commission。
and missions. Now, a) Christ as a missionary. The Gospels are records of the。
redeeming love of God through Christ. Love is always a mission because it。
reaches out for its own fulfillment. The divine mission of love has a missionary。
and that missionary is Christ. A missionary is one who is sent to。
accomplish a mission. Does Christ think of himself as a missionary? Yes. He。
mentions 39 times that he is sent by God as recorded in the Gospel of John alone.。
But this divine missionary has also sent us out as missionaries. He says, "As the。
Father has sent me, so send I you." He is the proto-missionary and as such he has。
set an example for us to follow. It is therefore very important for us to find。
out how he acted as a missionary. Our findings will point out the right path。
for us to follow. I'm going to mention six points in regard to Christ as a。
missionary. First, Christ's teaching in regard to the goals of his own mission.。
Second, Christ's missionary methods. Third, Christ's missionary attitude. Fourth,。
Christ's missionary spirit. Fifth, Christ's missionary commitment. Sixth, Christ's。
missionary field. Now first, Christ's teaching in regard to the goals of his own。
mission. What are the goals of Christ's mission? First, he came to seek and save。
the lost. The Lord says in Luke 19 10, "The Son of Man came to seek and to save。
that which was lost." Christ came to the world to bring the lost back to God and。
heal the estrangement between man and God. This is the task of reconciliation.。
In effecting this reconciliation, he gave his life a ransom for many. Mark 10 45.。
Second, he came to give the abundant life. He said, "I'm come that they might have。
life and that they might have it more abundantly." John 10 10. This is the task。
of imparting and vigorizing spiritual life in the believers. Christ did not。
come just to settle the legal aspect, so to speak, of our salvation, but also to。
give us a new life which is united with his own. Christ did not come just to。
teach us what is good and what is bad. His is not merely a teaching mission, but。
essentially a life-giving mission. The life that he gives has all its native。
properties for fruit-bearing. Moral goodness and excellence are fruits of。
this new life. Mankind has had many excellent teachers of morality, but only。
one the Redeemer and life-giver. Third, he came to show the Father. He said, "He that。
hath seen me hath seen the Father." John 14 9. No one hath seen God at any time.。
The only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared。
him. John 1 18. In the incarnation of Christ, the God of eternity entered into。
time, and the infinite intersected the finite, which is a great mystery to our。
minds. But more important to us is that the incarnation of Christ shows us in。
concrete terms the ineffable majesty, beauty, and perfection of God. The life。
and work of Christ reveals to us the true image of God, so much so that Christ。
said to Thomas, "He that hath seen me hath seen the Father." We see the light of the。
knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ. 2 Corinthians 4 6.。
Christ's was the great mission of reflecting the glorious image of God. It。
is not only Christ's mission, but also ours. We Christians are to bear the。
likeness of Christ, which in turn is the express image of God. Paul says in。
Romans 8 29, "Whom God did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to。
the image of his Son." Our conformity to the likeness of Christ is so important。
that is called by Paul the predestinated will of God. Fourth, he came to fulfill。
the law. He said, "Think not that I'm come to destroy the law or the prophets. I'm。
not come to destroy, but to fulfill." Matthew 5 17. Christ came to fulfill the。
law in two ways. First, he obeyed the law in all his earthly life. Second, he bore。
our failure in keeping the law and paid our debt to the law on the cross. He did。
not pay our debt to Satan, as some people think, because we do not owe Satan。
anything, but we do owe the debt of obeying the law of God. So Paul says,。
"Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law being made a curse for us."。
Galatians 3 13. Christ has also given us power to keep the Spirit, not the letter。
of the law. Fifth, he came to set people free from sin. He said, "If the Son shall。
make you free, ye shall be free indeed." John 8 36. For this purpose the Son of。
God was manifested that he might destroy the works of the devil. 1 John 3 8.。
Since the work of Satan is sin, Christ came to destroy sin and save us from。
sin. Christ as prophet saves us from the ignorance of sin. Christ as。
priest saves us from the guilt of sin as well as from the root of sin. Christ as。
king saves us from the power of sin. Christ's remedy for sin is therefore the。
cross, which means identification, a twofold identification, objective。
identification and subjective identification. Objective identification。
means that Christ identified himself with us on the cross, that is, he died on。
the cross for us. This is the doctrine of the substitutional death of Christ.。
Subjective identification means that we identify ourselves with Christ on the。
cross, that is, we die with Christ on the cross, which means self-crucifixion or。
self-negation. Self-negation deals with self-centeredness, which is the root of。
all sin. In one word, objective identification, which is the。
substitutional death of Christ, saves us from the guilt of sin and subjective。
identification, which means self-negation, saves us from the root of sin. Sixth, he。
came to reveal truth. He said, "For this cause I came into the world, that I。
should bear witness unto the truth." John 18, 37. Christ not only revealed truth to。
us, he is truth. Christ is truth in two senses. First, he is truth because his。
life is the perfect embodiment of truth. Second, he is truth not because he。
conforms to truth as something independent of him and normative to him,。
but because truth emanates from him. Moreover, the fact that Christ is truth。
indicates that truth is not merely something intellectual in nature, but。
something living, living relationship with God, with people, with things, and。
with oneself. Christians are not students of truth as theories, but they are。
disciples of the living Word of God, which is Christ. A student studies books,。
but a disciple learns of his master and teacher. The above are the goals of the。
mission of Christ as explicitly stated by himself. Christ's mission is, in a。
secondary sense, our mission. Christ said to his disciples, "He that believeth on me。
the works I do, shall he do also." John 14, 12. Our mission, therefore, is。
primarily the task of reconciliation, of bringing others into new life,。
and into discipleship of the living Word of God, of showing the likeness of Christ,。
of witnessing to the grace of forgiveness of sin, and to the power of。
sin, which we can possess through faith, of leading people into a self-denying。
and thereby a fruit-bearing life. Now what are Christ's missionary methods?。
I'm going to mention two methods that Christ used. First, identification. Christ。
became man, living among men, and as Son of Man he fulfilled his mission. He did。
not use a substitute, but he came to the world himself. He did not abhor the womb。
of a virgin, the manger, the hard life of a carpenter, the sickening association。
with degraded sinners, the hatred and insult of men, and finally the agony of。
Gethsemane and the suffering of Calvary. He went through all this in order to。
save us. Paul sums up all this in three beautiful verses. Christ, who being in the。
form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no。
reputation, and took upon himself the form of a servant, and was made in the。
likeness of man, and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and。
became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Philippians 2 verses 6 to 8.。
We notice five things in these verses which Christ did in his identification。
with us. First, he willingly gave up rights and privileges which belong to。
him. Second, he humbled himself in spirit. Third, he identified himself entirely。
with those whom he wanted to serve. Fourth, he obeyed the will of God. Fifth, he died。
to himself and lived for others. These five points are the secret of Christ's。
success in his mission, and they are also the secret of the success of any。
missionary or missioner of Christ. Second, exemplification. Christ lived his。
teaching. The uniqueness of Christ as a teacher lies in the fact that he。
practiced his words. He taught his disciples to humble themselves and serve。
one another, and he washed their feet. He taught them the lesson of prayerfulness,。
and he prayed at dawn, at night, in company, and in solitude. He taught them。
the lesson of forgiving enemies, and he prayed for those who nailed him to the。
cross. Yes, he's the greatest teacher in all human history. What is Christ's。
missionary attitude? He said, "The Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but。
to minister." Mark 10, 45. Christ did not come to the world with a scepter in his。
hand, but with a yoke on his neck. When the Son of Man under a yoke calls us to。
come to him and share his yoke, we are moved and we readily accept his calling。
and counted a great privilege to serve with him. It was in connection with。
service that Christ gave his teaching on true greatness, which has five。
significant points for our edification. First, Christians should have a totally。
different attitude in life from other people. Christ said, "Ye know that they。
which are counted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and。
their great ones exercise authority upon them. But so shall it not be among you."。
Mark 10, verses 42 and 43. Second, true greatness is measured by service. Mark 10,。
43. Third, God honors humility which produces service. Matthew 23, 12. Fourth, a。
prize must be paid for true greatness. Mark 10, 38. Fifth, Christ is the best example。
for our service. Mark 10, 45. What is Christ's missionary spirit? He said, "Not as。
I will, but as thou wilt." Matthew 26, 39. There was a great agony in the heart of。
Christ, the agony of struggling between the will and his own will. Out of the。
struggle came his glorious resolution, "Not as I will, but as thou wilt." Christ。
did not seek self-fulfillment, but the fulfillment of the will of God. This is。
also a real and continual struggle in the life of every missionary. A successful。
and fruitful missionary comes out of it with the battle cry, "Not as I will, but as。
thou wilt." Now let's think about Christ's missionary commitment. He was obedient。
unto death. Philippians 2, 8. It is recorded in Mark that when Jesus went up。
to Jerusalem for the last time, there was something in his face that made his。
disciples amazed and afraid. Mark 10, 32. What was it? The Bible does not tell us。
what it was, but gathering from the context, I believe it is quite clear that。
there was an extraordinary air of determinedness and firmness in the。
expression of the face of Christ, which deeply impressed his disciples and。
created a sense of awe in their minds. The Bible says here that Jesus went。
ahead of his disciples on their way to Jerusalem. Evidently, there was something。
unusual about Jesus walking before them, and the logical explanation for it is。
that the pace of Jesus was unconsciously quickened by his resolute decision to。
accept suffering and death in obedience to the will of God. Finally, Christ's。
mission field. He says, "And other sheep I have which are not of this fold, them。
also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice, and there shall be one fold and。
one shepherd." John 10, 16. Christ did not limit his mission field to the Jews. His。
fold is open to all nations. He said, "If I be lifted up, I will draw all men unto。
me." John 12, 32. Now, B, Christ's teaching on the kingdom of God and missions. A large。
portion of Christ's teaching is about the kingdom of God. He made it very clear。
that the scope of the kingdom of God is worldwide and not limited to the Jews.。
First, Christ teaches that many people shall come from the east and from the。
west and from the north and from the south and shall sit down feasting in the。
kingdom of God. Luke 13, 29. The blessings of the kingdom of God are for all the。
people of the world. The picture of the kingdom of God as a feast is very。
precious, but evidently an invitation has to be sent out to the nations and the。
guests must be brought to the feast. The sending and gathering constitute our。
mission. The missioners of the king are ordered to go to the east and to the。
west and to the north and to the south to proclaim the good news of the feast。
of the kingdom and gather those who will respond to the great invitation of the。
king to the feast. Those guests who were in the time past Gentiles in the flesh。
called uncircumcision without Christ being aliens from the commonwealth of。
Israel and stranger from the covenants of promise having no hope and without。
God in the world are now made nigh to God by the blood of Christ. Ephesians 2。
verses 11 to 13. The far off are made nigh. The strangers have become sons. The。
outsiders are now recipients of the covenants of promise. The hopeless and。
godless now constitute the feasters in the kingdom of God. What a glorious。
transformation. Second, Christ teaches that the Gentiles will not only be among。
among the feasters in the kingdom of God but will also together with the。
believing Jews inherit the kingdom of God. Matthew 21 43. Christ said to Paul in。
a vision, "I have appeared unto thee for this purpose to make thee a minister and。
a witness both of the things which thou hast seen and of those things in the。
which I will appear unto thee, delivering thee from the people and from the。
Gentiles unto whom now I send thee to open their eyes and to turn them from。
darkness to light and from the power of Satan unto God that they may receive。
forgiveness of sins and inheritance among them which are sanctified by。
faith that is in me." Acts 26 verses 16 to 18. Christ sent Paul as a。
missioner to gather the Gentile believers into the inheritance of his。
kingdom and today he sends us to do the same thing for all nations. Third, Christ。
teaches that the gospel of this kingdom will be preached in all the world.。
Matthew 24 14. By whom? By missionaries who are gospel bearers to the ends of。
the earth. Christ pointed out very clearly that the gospel of this kingdom。
must be preached in all the world before his second coming. We can therefore say。
that the missionaries for the gospel or the gospel bearers are also heralds of。
his coming. Now the Great Commission and missions. Missions is the task of。
carrying out the Great Commission. If all other bases of missions fail, surely。
the Great Commission alone established the logic of missions. First, the。
recipients of the Great Commission. "Go ye therefore ye." Now who are the ye? Some。
Christians say that the Great Commission was given to the apostles alone. That。
this is not true is readily demonstrated by the following points. First, the。
apostles could not possibly accomplish the task of preaching to every creature。
all nations in their lifetime. Second, if we say that the Great Commission is only。
meant for the apostles because it was addressed to them, then we must follow by。
asserting that all Christ's teaching was only meant for one generation of。
believers because it was addressed to them. That is evidently not truth. Third,。
we must also remember that the same Commission was given for the second time。
in different words to a larger group of disciples than the apostles as recorded。
in Acts 1.8. This fact clearly indicates that the Great Commission was meant for。
all the followers of Christ. The inevitable conclusion is that the Great。
Commission is meant for the apostles as well as for all believers of。
all generations including you and I and me. All of us must have a share in it, no。
matter in whatever way. Second, the nature of the Great Commission, a commandment to。
be obeyed. The Great Commission is not merely an exhortation or advice. It is a。
commandment. If we are under authority, we simply have to obey. Christians are。
soldiers and as soldiers we are expected to obey orders from Christ, our。
Commander-in-Chief. We do not treat orders as options and act at our own。
impulses. Every one of us must in one way or another have a share in passing on。
the blessing of the gospel to others near and far. It is a test of our。
obedience to Christ. The idea of Christ as the invisible visitor in our homes is。
very beautiful, which has been popularized by a decorative plate hanging。
on the walls of the many Christian homes with these words painted on them.。
Christ is the invisible visitor in this house and silent listener to。
every conversation. Many Christians want Christ but they only want him as a。
visitor and no more. A visitor has to be very careful in what he says and does. He。
must not say anything or do anything that displeases the host or the hostess.。
Christ as an occasional visitor does not have a say in the managing of the house。
and he's easily disposed of. But Christ demands Lordship in our homes and in our。
lives where he just takes over and has control in everything. It is interesting。
and significant to find that the word Savior is used with Jesus appears only。
20 some times in the New Testament whereas the word Lord as related to。
Jesus is used over 500 times. The ratio is 1 to 20 which is truly significant. If。
we acknowledge the Lordship of Jesus Christ at all we must obey his。
commandments and one of his most important commandments is the Great。
Commission. Third, the scope of the Great Commission. Every creature, all nations,。
Christ commanded his followers to go into all the world and preach the gospel。
to every creature. They were to be his witnesses unto the utmost part of the。
world. We praise God for those messengers of the gospel who in obedience to the。
Great Commission have gone into the regions beyond across the centuries with。
the torch of the love of God at the price of their lives. Today we in the。
seventies of the 20th century still have our ends of the earth where the gospel。
of Christ has not yet reached. Today we have the last mile to run in the race of。
world evangelization and it is a hard mile which presents a tough challenge to。
the faithful followers of Christ. The best in us rises to meet this challenge。
with faith and dedication. Under the grace of God our generation may be the。
one that has the honor and privilege of crowning the long run of world。
evangelization. As the chairman of the consultation and continuation committee。
of the first all-Asia mission consultation I'm glad to be able to。
report to you that more and more churches in Asian countries have been。
awakened to their own missionary responsibilities and they wish to join。
their Western brethren in carrying out the Great Commission. Our goal is to send。
200 new missionaries to our mission fields in '74. Let us listen to the。
missionary cry of the prophet Isaiah, "Enlarge the place of thy tent and let。
them stretch forth the curtains of thine habitations. Spare not, lengthen thy cause。
and strengthen thy states for thou shalt break forth on the right hand and on the。
left." Let the chorus of this cry resound in our minds and hearts, "Lengthen thy。
cause, lengthen thy cause." Fourth, the task of the Great Commission. The first。
task in the Great Commission is to proclaim. The Lord said to his disciples,。
"Go into all the world and preach." To preach is to proclaim to the world what。
God has done through Christ. Proclamation is an essential part of the。
Great Commission. There could be no biblical evangelism without proclamation.。
Witness by presence is good, but it is not enough. Proclamation can take。
different forms, but it has got to be there. The second task in the Great。
Commission is to convert. The Lord said to his disciples, "Go ye therefore,。
baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit."。
Baptism indicates conversion. We are commissioned by Christ to convert people。
to him, not to the Church as an institution. Evangelism without。
conversions is not biblical evangelism. The third task in the Great Commission。
is to disciple. The Lord said to his disciples, "Go ye therefore, teach all。
nations, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you."。
The task of the Great Commission does not end with baptism, but it continues。
with the ministry of teaching. The Lord has made it very clear in the Great。
Commission that the purpose of teaching is to observe whatsoever I have。
commanded you. There is a legitimate distinction between teaching to know and。
teaching to do. The former is studying while the latter is discipling.。
The true Christian is a disciple rather than a student. Teaching without。
discipling is a great failure. The Great Commission moves from proclaiming to。
converting and then to discipling. Any one of the three missing is a breachment。
of the Great Commission. Fifth, the procedure of the Great Commission. Acts。
1.8 is an integral part of the Great Commission. It teaches us that。
Jerusalem does have a part in the Great Commission. If Jerusalem is removed, then。
the Great Commission does not have a start. But we must not end with Jerusalem.。
There are many Christians and churches that make Jerusalem both the start and。
the end of their program. They never move beyond Jerusalem. Jerusalem has become。
their outermost part of the world. What a small map and what a small vision and。
what a small heart. On the other hand, there are those Christians and churches。
that have neglected their Jerusalem. They think all the time of the outermost。
part of the earth and overlook the immediate need around them. The Great。
Commission commands us to attend to the foreign mission field as well as to the。
mission field that lies at our threshold. Sixth, the assurance for the Great。
Commission. The assurance for the Great Commission consists in two factors. First,。
promise. The Lord promised his disciples that he was going to be with them。
always. They enjoy his presence most when they are engaged in carrying out the。
Great Commission. What a precious comfort and encouragement. Second, authority. The。
Lord has all power in heaven and in earth and it was on the basis of this。
power and authority that he gave to his disciples the Great Commission. This。
authority guarantees the final success of the Great Commission. The power and。
authority of Christ constituted the assurance that the apostles had in their。
minds in regard to evangelism and missions. They had faith in the person。
power of Christ. They knew in whom they believed. For instance, in reading through。
the first epistle of John, no one can escape the impression of John's sureness。
of the person of Christ. He says in the first three verses of the first chapter,。
"That which was from the beginning which we have heard, which we have seen with。
our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled of the word of。
life. For the word was manifested and we have seen it and bear witness. That which。
we have seen and heard declare we unto you." These accumulated repetitions。
indicate the absolute sureness that John had in his mind and heart in regard to。
the person of Christ who was the center of his proclamation. In the case of the。
Apostle Peter, he testified to the reality and truth of his message to the。
Christians of his day by a vivid reference to his experience with Jesus。
on the Mount of Transfiguration as we find in 2 Peter 1.18. This blessed memory。
and assurance made him so zealous in evangelism and in his efforts to edify。
the saints of his day. When we think of the Apostles as a group, we are reminded。
of the scene of their first meeting with the Risen Lord as recorded in John。
chapter 20 verses 19 to 21. The first thing the Risen Lord did when he appeared。
to them was to show them his pierced hands and side. And the Bible says, "Then。
were the disciples glad." Why glad? Those who were marks of a great tragedy and。
terrible suffering that befell Jesus their beloved master. Why glad? They were。
glad because when they saw his pierced hands and side, they became assured of。
the reality of the Risen Lord. How can you help being glad if you know for sure。
that your Jesus is the Lord that rose from the dead victorious from sin over。
sin, death and Satan? Please note a very important sequence here. The Lord showed。
his pierced hands and side to his disciples before he commissioned them。
for world evangelization. He said, "As my father has sent me, so send I you."。
Assurance precedes commission. No one wants to be commissioned for a hopeless。
task, but the disciples gladly accepted the Lord's commission because they knew。
who gave it to them. I'm sure whenever they suffered trials, difficulties and。
persecution later on in their task of evangelism, they would recall the pierced。
hands and side which they had seen with their own eyes and would be comforted。
and strengthened. This indelible memory meant two things to them. They were。
assured of the reality of their message about the Risen Lord and they were。
constrained by the great love represented by those marks of unspeakable。
suffering of the Lord. That is enough for them and enough for us. The Risen Lord。
said to the disciples, "Peace be unto you." It is interesting to notice that these。
precious words were repeated in the following verse. I'm sure that this。
repetition is significant. In these three verses we find three things which。
happened in immediate succession. The first, "Peace be unto you," the showing of。
the pierced hands and side, and the second, "Peace be unto you." Evidently, the。
second, "Peace be unto you," has especially to do with the assurance that came with。
the showing of the pierced hands and side. Objectively, only the Risen Lord can。
give us real peace. Subjectively, only our assurance of the reality of the。
resurrection of the Lord can produce real peace in our hearts. Who can have。
peace of heart if he has given his whole life to a cause in which he has only a。
shaky confidence? But all of us can dedicate our lives with rejoicing to the。
cause of Christ whose final victory is absolutely assured. The Apostle John had。
a very interesting and significant experience as recorded in the book of。
Revelation. He was given to see the vision of the victory of Christ. In。
chapter 4, he sees God on his throne with the whole plan of salvation。
unfolded before him. And in this glorious vision, a cry of victory pealed in the。
sky, "Behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, he hath prevailed."。
Revelation 5, 5. What a glorious proclamation. John looked around expecting。
to see a strong lion, but instead he saw a lamb that was slain. Two opposite images。
are united in God's wonderful plan, a lion and a lamb. The lion is the lamb and。
the lamb is the lion. The power of God's lion lies exactly in the weakness of。
God's lamb that was slain. The New English Bible says in Revelation 5, 6,。
"A lamb with the marks of slaughter upon him." Evidently, these marks refer to the。
prints of nails in his hands and feet. John saw the lamb take over the scroll。
with his pierced hand. It is the pierced hand that can open the sealed scroll of。
the plan of God and bring it to pass. It is the pierced hand that touched John。
when he fell on the ground as dead and raised him to life again. It is the。
pierced hand that holds the key of hell and death. It is the pierced hand that。
holds the key of David. It openeth and no man shuddeth. It is the pierced hand that。
holds the seven stars which are the leaders of the seven churches. In one。
word, it is the pierced hand that can carry through the whole plan of God. When。
John saw this vision, I'm sure his whole outlook was changed. He took heart in。
face of terrible persecution. All the things that he had suffered for Christ。
began to take on a new meaning and they became so precious to him. It is。
interesting to notice in Revelation 1, 12 that John turned around and saw the。
vision of the Lord in glory. Indeed, we have to turn from our outward situation。
and look to the Lord before we can have a new vision and this vision will turn。
everything around. It always does us good to turn away from our immediate。
circumstances and take a good look at the victorious Lord who holds everything。
in his hand. We all remember that after the Apostles were threatened by the。
authorities of the city of Jerusalem, they went back to their own company and。
lifted their voice to God with one accord and said, "Lord, thou hast made。
heaven and earth and the sea and all that in them is. Who by the mouth of thy。
servant David has said, 'Why did the heathen rage and the people imagine vain。
things?' The kings of the earth stood up and the rulers gathered together against。
the Lord and against his Christ. For of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom。
thou hast anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the。
people of Israel, were gathered together for to do whatsoever thy hand and thy。
counsel determined before to be done. And now, Lord, behold their threatenings and。
grant unto thy servants that with all boldness they may speak thy word. And。
when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together。
and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and they spoke the word of God。
with boldness." Acts 4 verses 23 to 31. Here the apostles were sure of three。
things. First, God is the maker of heaven and earth and everything is in his。
control. Second, God foretold what was going to happen and it has happened. And。
third, God is going to carry through all his plan. This threefold assurance。
resulted in joy and boldness. As they prayed with this assurance, God echoed to。
their faith by shaping the place where they were assembled. Boldness is what we。
need today. Boldness to proclaim the gospel of the all-sufficiency of Christ。
in a cynical and humanistic age like ours. Boldness to ask for greater things。
to be done for God. Boldness to make larger plans for God. Boldness to make。
greater sacrifice for his kingdom. But this boldness comes from assurance. The。
Lord called his disciples a little flock. This little flock of the apostles were。
naturally afraid of the formidable task before them, but they took courage when。
they heard the Lord say to them, "Fear not, little flock, for it is your Father's。
pleasure to give you the kingdom." They were comforted and emboldened because。
they knew what was going to happen. They were going to inherit the kingdom of God.。
The Apostle Paul, writing to Timothy from a prison in Rome, said, "I suffer trouble。
even to bonds, but the word of God is not bound." Second Timothy 2.9. Paul looked。
beyond his bonds and saw the spread wings of the gospel. He was sure of the。
expansion of the church under the power of God. Then he goes on to say in verse。
12, "If we suffer with him, we shall also reign with him." It sounds strange to。
talk about reigning in a prison, but all this becomes normal when seen in the。
light of his assurance. Paul expresses the same assurance in his epistle to the。
Philippines, "But I would ye understand, brethren, that the things which happen。
unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the king of the gospel, so。
that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace and in all other places.。
And many of the brethren of the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much。
more bold to speak the word without fear." Philippians 1.18. "Even as all things。
work together for good to them that love God, so do all things work together for。
the furtherance of the gospel." In regard to world evangelization, the Lord said to。
his disciples that his gospel would be preached in all the world. Matthew 24.14.。
These words all sounded incredible at the time when they were。
spoken, but they have been wonderfully fulfilled today before our own eyes. God。
has seen to it that it is done. He has raised up faithful Christians as his。
instruments to carry out his plan. Even our faithfulness is a work of his。
faithfulness in fulfilling his promises. The assurance of the apostles is also。
ours. Jesus Christ, our risen Lord, stands behind the Great Commission which he has。
given us. Let us march on with assurance and dedication from victory to victory。
until the dawning of the glorious day of consummation of God's plan of salvation.。
