Let us continue our study of the biblical basis of missions.。
This morning we have come to our third subtitle, "The Basis of Missions in Acts," that is,。
the Holy Spirit and Missions.。
My message this morning is arranged under five headings, A, the Holy Spirit as author。
and finisher of missions; B, the Holy Spirit as promoter of missions; C, the Holy Spirit。
as power for missions; D, the Holy Spirit as strategist for missions; E, the Holy Spirit。
as supplier for missions.。
Now A, the Holy Spirit as author and finisher of missions.。
The Lord committed to his followers the task of evangelizing the world, but clearly and。
emphatically he told them that they had power to fulfill the great commission only when。
they had received the Holy Spirit.。
Ye shall receive power after that the Holy Spirit is come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses。
unto me both in Jerusalem and in Judea and in Samaria and unto the utmost part of the。
earth.。
Power is, in every sphere of work, the one all-important requisite.。
Even more this is true with the Church's mission, for we wrestle not against flesh。
and blood, but against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness。
in high places.。
We need a supernatural power against a supernatural enemy, and only the Holy Spirit can supply。
this power.。
The Lord thought so much of this power from on high that he even forbade his disciples。
to begin their mission before they were equipped with this divine supply.。
How can we afford to think differently from our Lord?。
In speaking of the Holy Spirit, the Lord said something which was too much for the disciples。
to take in, something they thought hardly sensible.。
The Lord actually said, "Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that believeth on me, the。
works that I do shall he do also, and greater works than these shall he do, because I go。
to my Father."。
They could not understand these amazing words at the time, but later they all learned to。
know that they were true.。
The Holy Spirit was going to mean greater efficiency than even Christ's presence in。
the flesh had meant to them before.。
Christ called the Holy Spirit another comforter.。
The word "another" indicates that the Holy Spirit was going to be to the disciples all。
that the Lord Jesus had been to them previously.。
Not only that, but also through this another comforter, they would be enabled to do greater。
works than Jesus himself had done.。
There's no going away with him, and there's no limit to his presence.。
Another, all sufficiency for them.。
We can never overestimate the importance of the Holy Spirit.。
He was the center of the Lord's last discourse, and it was none other than the Holy Spirit。
concerning whom Jesus gave his last commandment to his disciples just before his ascension.。
He said to them, "Tarry ye, tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with。
power from on high."。
Acts 11, 13, we simply cannot brush aside something on which the Lord has laid so much。
emphasis.。
It is therefore logical for us to say that missions began with the Holy Spirit, but the。
significance of the Holy Spirit in regard to missions does not stop here.。
He is also the finisher of missions.。
The supernatural sign of speaking with tongues, which accompanied the coming of the Holy Spirit。
at Pentecost, was itself a clear and divinely appointed indication that the power of the。
Holy Spirit was going to send the gospel to all races and nations where different tongues。
are spoken.。
We can therefore also say that the Holy Spirit is the guarantor of the success of world missions.。
We clearly see today that this divinely appointed indication has come true.。
The gospel has been preached in almost all tongues.。
B, the Holy Spirit as the promoter of missions.。
The book of Acts of the apostles is really the book of the Acts of Jesus through the。
apostles by the Holy Spirit.。
The Holy Spirit took a leading part in every move of the early church.。
We see him explicitly at work in all of the most important events in the early church.。
For instance, the Holy Spirit was at work when the church first broke out in power with。
3,000 and 5,000 people convicted and converted on a single occasion.。
When Peter and the other disciples witnessed boldly in the face of persecution.。
When the early Christians overcame selfishness and gave more than liberal aid to the Lord's。
work.。
When the first martyrdom took place, showing glorious victory over persecution and vengeance.。
When the gospel of salvation reached the first Gentile family in the city of Caesarea.。
When the message of the forgiveness of sin began to spread to Ethiopia and Africa through。
Philip speaking to the powerful eunuch.。
When the churches in Judea, Galilee, and Samaria came to be firmly established.。
When that wonderful missionary minded church at Antioch began to be prosperous as a preparation。
for foreign missions.。
When the mutual love of the first churches was manifested by collecting a love offering。
through the inspired prophecy of Agabus.。
When the Antioch church launched their missionary program.。
When Paul overcame his first enemy of influence in the person of Elemas on the isle of Cyprus.。
When the apostolic gospel team rejoiced over persecution at Antioch of Pisidia.。
When the apostles recognized work among the Gentiles and announced the great proclamation。
of freedom from law for Gentile Christians at the first council of Jerusalem.。
When Paul was forbidden to continue his work in Asia Minor and was led into Europe, an。
act of far reaching significance.。
When leaders were chosen to look after an indigenous church at Ephesus.。
Behind all these important events and movements of the early church, we find the Holy Spirit。
to be the real promoting and sustaining power.。
Moreover, no one can fail to observe that most of the events on this list have to do。
with missions.。
Are we therefore not justified in saying that the chief concern of the Holy Spirit in the。
early churches was the promotion and empowerment of missions?。
Yes, I think so.。
See, the Holy Spirit has powerful missions.。
First, outpourings of the Holy Spirit on missionary work.。
There is an important distinction between the infilling of the Holy Spirit and the on-falling。
or oncoming or outpouring of the Holy Spirit.。
The infilling of the Holy Spirit has mainly to do with depth of spiritual quality and。
character and with power in service.。
Whereas the outpouring of the Holy Spirit is a sovereign act of God to indicate the。
ushering in of a new era or the beginning of a new movement or expansion.。
The outpouring of the Holy Spirit happened only four times in the Book of Acts.。
Each of these was accompanied by supernatural signs.。
It is most revealing to find out that all these four times were related to missions.。
The first time was coming of the Holy Spirit at Pentecost, and the Lord referred to it。
as the empowering for world missions.。
The second time was when the Gospel reached the first non-Jewish city of Samaria, chapter。
8, verses 15 to 18.。
The third took place when Peter was sent by the Holy Spirit to preach in the first Gentile。
family of Cornelius in the city of Caesarea, 10, verses 45 and 46.。
Finally, the fourth time came about when Paul broke into new ground, showing clearly the。
distinction between the Gospel of Jesus and the teaching of John the Baptist, 19, verses。
1 to 6.。
These are facts which show how concerned and how related the Holy Spirit is to missions.。
Second, the empowerment of the Holy Spirit for fruitfulness in missions.。
When Peter was filled with the Holy Spirit, he preached and 3,000 souls were converted.。
It was not the number of decisions that counted, for we are all familiar with the notorious。
fact that there is a shocking discrepancy between the number of decisions made at campaigns。
and real conversions.。
It was the quality of such a large number of new converts that showed the power of the。
Holy Spirit, and they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship,。
and in breaking of bread and in prayers.。
Barnabas was filled with the Holy Spirit, and much people were added unto the Lord,。
11, 24.。
Not unto the church, but unto the Lord.。
That must mean true conversions.。
There were both Jews and Gentiles among them.。
As a result, a prosperous and spiritually minded church was established.。
Down through the centuries, there have been amazing instances of the rapidity of results。
under the power of the Holy Spirit.。
Let us take a few examples.。
In the 96 years following 1811, there were over a million converts in West Polynesia.。
In Burma, during the first 80 years of evangelistic work, an average of one new convert was baptized。
every three hours around the clock, and one in ten of such converts became an active worker。
for the Lord.。
In the Fiji Islands, James Cavett, who went there in time to bury the remains of 80 human。
victims of a cannibal feast, lived to see crowds of converted savages around the Lord's。
table for holy communion.。
At the end of the 50 years between 1835 and 1885, 1,300 churches could be counted.。
Instances like these could be multiplied again and again.。
Third, the empowerment of the Holy Spirit for missionary expansion.。
The Spirit-filled church at Jerusalem expanded along three main routes.。
First, by the converted devout Jews who were present at the Pentecostal scene and who went。
back to their own places with the gospel.。
Second, by the Christians who scattered after the martyrdom of the Spirit-filled Stephen。
and the persecution that followed, and then in turn by the Spirit-led ministry of Philip,。
advancing to Samaria and Ethiopia.。
Third, by other scattering Christians who took the northern route to Phoenix, Cyprus,。
and Antioch, and in turn from the Spirit-filled church at Antioch to Asia Minor and Europe.。
We see the Holy Spirit at work in all these directions.。
Church history abounds with illustrations of this truth.。
At significant turns in the history of the church, which we may call hours of travail,。
before or during the birth of new life or new expansion, we see special phenomena of。
the manifestation of the power of the Holy Spirit.。
For instance, at the beginning of the Wesleyan revival, which influenced the history of England。
to such a remarkable extent, and which, through men like Whitefield, contributed to the great。
awakening in New England under the leadership of Jonathan Edwards, we see a visitation of。
the power of the Holy Spirit, which is sometimes called the Methodist Pentecost.。
We find these words in John Wesley's journal.。
January 1, 1739, Mr. Hall, Kynchon, Ingham, Whitefield, Butchens, and my brother Charles。
were present at our love feast in Fetter Lane with about sixty brethren.。
About three in the morning, as we were continuing instant in prayer, the power of God came mightily。
upon us.。
As soon as we were recovered a little from that awe and amazement at the presence of。
his majesty, we broke out with one voice, "We praise thee, O God; we acknowledge thee。
to be the Lord."。
George Whitefield recalled this occasion and remarked, "It was a Pentecostal time indeed.。
One month later, he preached to twenty thousand colliers at Kingswood, Bristol, with marvellous。
results.。
The great movement expanded to all England, to all Great Britain, to America, and to many。
other countries.。
Many scholars agree with Professor A.M.。
Renwick of Edinburgh in saying that even William Carey, the London Missionary Society, and。
the strong evangelical wing in the Church of England are all fruits of this mighty revival."。
Fourth, the empowerment of the Holy Spirit for victory over Satan in missions.。
On his first mission field, Paul met with a formidable enemy in a sorcerer by the name。
of Elemas, who had great influence with the deputy of the country against the Christian。
faith.。
Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, rebuked him and made him temporarily blind by a miracle,。
and thereby broke the cast of the power of darkness over the island of Cyprus.。
Paul pointed out in his rebuke that Elemas was a tool of Satan to hinder the course of。
the gospel, and he was enabled by the Holy Spirit to bring about victory over him.。
The power of darkness reigns through superstition and sin, which results in moral corruption.。
But the transformation of individual lives and communities wherever the gospel is preached。
is an undeniable proof of the power of the Holy Spirit.。
Dr. J.H.。
Bavank of Holland has pointed out in his book The Science of Missions that the conviction。
of sin, which is necessary for salvation, cannot be brought about by a philosophical。
approach alone.。
Based on natural theology, using reason as a common premises for arguing against the。
falsity of heathen ways of life and faith, neither will the psychological or dialectical。
approach be sufficient.。
The Holy Spirit alone, says Dr. Bavank, can call to repentance, and we are only means。
in his hand.。
He goes on to say if elliptics, or the conviction of sin, were an human activity, the situation。
would be nearly hopeless.。
That is only too true.。
Fifth, the Holy Spirit and prayer power.。
The working of the Holy Spirit is so interwoven with prayer that sometimes the two things。
are taken as one thing.。
They are mutually causative.。
In the book of Acts, nothing else is so closely linked together with the power of the Holy。
Spirit as prayer.。
St. Patrick, known as the Apostle of Ireland, spent 40 days on top of Grove Patrick in meditation。
and prayer for the opening up of West Ireland to the gospel, and it did open.。
There is consensus among church historians that William Carey was the true herald of。
modern missions.。
The movement which he started was born of a special monthly prayer meeting for worldwide。
outpouring of power from on high, which Dr. Arthur T. Pearson calls a stated monthly season。
of such united, organized pleading with God for a lost world.。
Some historians have traced this prayer movement back to the trumpet call to prayer for a new。
and worldwide Pentecost, blown by Jonathan Edwards from New England and echoed in England。
across the ocean.。
Edwards himself led in a mighty revival in New England and had great impact on the preachers。
and churches of his own time, as well as of generations to follow.。
His ministry was marked by evident manifestations of the power of the Holy Spirit.。
When the pioneering messengers of the gospel began to labor on the island of Tahiti, the。
power of darkness so prevailed that the efforts of the first 14 years seemed to be wholly。
in vain.。
The tireless toil and unsparing self-denial of the early missionaries were not rewarded。
by a single convert.。
The directors of the London Missionary Society seriously proposed abandoning this fruitless。
field, but there were a few who felt that this was the very hour when God was about。
to rebuke unbelief and reward faith.。
Finally, instead of abandoning the field, a special season of united prayer was appointed.。
Many confessed unbelief and prayed fervently.。
A miracle happened just at this crucial hour.。
Unknown to each other, two vessels started from two opposite ports, one from Tahiti bound。
for London, the other from the Thames bound for Tahiti, and they crossed each other's。
tracks at mid-ocean.。
The latter carried letters of encouragement to the missionaries.。
The former bore letters from the missionaries in Tahiti announcing such a mighty work of。
God that idolatry were entirely overthrown.。
What a wonderful and amazing coincidence between prayer and the power of the Holy Spirit.。
D, the Holy Spirit as strategist of missions.。
The book of Acts affords us with guidance in regard to the strategy of missions.。
It reveals to us principles of missionary work which have to do with the leading of。
the Holy Spirit.。
First, occupation of key cities.。
Philip was led to Samaria, Peter to Caesarea.。
Paul started work in many key cities in Asia Minor.。
Today, the metropolitan areas are the strategic centers for evangelism, since this is indeed。
a metropolitan age.。
Second, capture of key persons and classes for Christ.。
When Paul went to the Isle of Cyprus, he dealt with the deputy of the country in the power。
of the Holy Spirit, won him for the Lord, and thereby created a favorable influence。
on the island.。
At Athens, Paul engaged the intelligentsia of the city in disputation and aroused their。
interest in the Christian faith, which resulted in the conversion of some intellectuals, among。
whom was a man of position by the name of Dionysius.。
Then at Ephesus, he worked among scholars of the school of Tyrannus for two years.。
Paul never worked so long in one place among any other class of people.。
What was the result?。
So that all they which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and。
Greeks.。
At 1910, Philip was led by the Holy Spirit to speak to the Ethiopian eunuch, who was。
a leader in his country, and it was the first step towards the Christianization of that。
land.。
Of course, this does not mean that the gospel is meant only for a certain class of people,。
but it does teach us that there is real wisdom in laboring patiently among intellectual people。
on the mission fields.。
We should never neglect them.。
Many missionaries or missionary societies skip over the educated class and leaders because。
work among them requires a greater price to be paid.。
Third, movement into new areas.。
Paul moved on to new areas every time after he had established a local church.。
If missionaries follow this principle, the strength of the great missionary army will。
not be taken up by working in churches already established, but will break out to new areas。
in every direction.。
This will start a mighty expansion in this generation.。
Every missionary should be trained to be willing to move on to new places and start all over。
again.。
It is hard, but by doing this, missionary work as a whole will be much more effective.。
Fourth, establishing and sustaining of indigenous churches.。
In the farewell exhortation to the elders of the Ephesian church on his mission field,。
Paul said, "The Holy Spirit hath made you overseers to feed the church of God."。
Acts 20, 28.。
Evidently, it is the will of the Holy Spirit that the churches on the mission fields should。
be self-governing, self-propagating, and self-supporting.。
If you do not go with the Holy Spirit, you will never raise up strong churches.。
When they had ordained them elders in every church and had prayed with fasting, they commended。
them to the Lord on whom they believed.。
Acts 14, 23.。
Having ordained leaders in his mission churches, Paul commended them to the Lord, for he was。
able to take care of them.。
So one of the most important jobs of missionaries is to train national leaders.。
Another point of supreme importance is that national churches must be trained to be missionary-minded.。
Paul could speak of the churches which he started as having fellowship with him in the。
gospel from the first day until now, and as sounding out the word of the Lord not only。
Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place.。
First Thessalonians 1.8.。
Fifth, love service in missions.。
And there stood up one of them named Agabus, and he signified by the Spirit that there。
should be great dearth throughout all the world.。
Acts 11.28.。
Evidently, the purpose of the Holy Spirit in announcing the coming famine through Agabus。
was that Christians should manifest their love to one another by action at such a time.。
The Christians at Antioch understood the significance of this prophecy and sent relief to the brethren。
in Judea.。
It was a beautiful expression of brotherhood in the love of Christ.。
It is true that the primary task of the church is to evangelize the world, but the Holy Spirit。
reveals to us here that love services have their own place in missions.。
Do schools, hospitals, and other welfare services come under this category?。
Certainly they do serve a twofold purpose, means of evangelism and channels of love.。
Sixth, mass evangelism in missions.。
As soon as the curtain is drawn on the Pentecostal spectacle, we have a scene of mass evangelism。
presented to us.。
Peter, with the apostolic team full of the Holy Spirit, preaching to thousands of amazed。
people with wonderful result.。
A short time later, at the gate called Beautiful, Peter again testified to gospel truths before。
a crowd of 5,000, counting only the men.。
Even the hostile rulers were overwhelmed by this huge crowd.。
Because that evangelistic meetings are nothing new, but as an organized means of evangelism,。
mass campaigns are an upsurging power in this generation.。
They have sound scriptural basis if they have the Holy Spirit as their main power source.。
We will do well to remember that ours is an age of mass actions.。
United campaigns run on a spiritual line are greatly needed on the mission fields today.。
Seventh, unity as power for missions.。
The Spirit-filled church at Jerusalem showed a wonderful spirit of unity.。
Paul speaks of unity of the Spirit.。
Our Lord said in his prayer for his disciples, "And now I am no more in the world, but these。
are in the world.。
I come to thee, Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given。
me, that they may be one as we are, that the world may believe that thou hast sent me."。
Our Lord teaches us here a very important truth.。
The unity of believers produces a power which convinces the world of the reality of the。
gospel.。
The Lord laid repeated emphasis on the oneness of believers in this great prayer.。
The words that they may be one are used four times in this chapter, and every time they。
take on a new meaning.。
In verse 11, oneness of believers has to do with the name of God.。
In verse 21, it is spoken of as a power to draw people to Christ.。
In verse 22, it is related to the glory of God.。
In verse 23, it has the added significance of the manifestation of the love of God.。
In view of these words of our Lord, we can never speak too much of the importance of。
the unity of believers.。
While there are lines and methods of uniting the Church of God which are not scriptural。
and therefore unacceptable by biblically oriented Christians, we evangelical churches must unreservedly。
start a decisive movement for unity based on biblical terms.。
There must be combined action on the mission fields if we really want more effective evangelism.。
We should set up committees to study the best ways for unity, with as many evangelical groups。
as possible taking part.。
There is only one path for us to tread, and that is to unite and evangelize the world。
before the Lord comes back.。
We must not only speak negatively of an unbiblical unification, but we must also act positively。
for a biblical one.。
(e) The Holy Spirit as Supplier for Missions.。
First, the Holy Spirit and the Supplier of Recruits for Missions.。
The Holy Spirit said, "Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I have called。
them."。
(Acts 13:3) The Holy Spirit called Barnabas and Paul for missionary service, and they。
went.。
He calls and recruits volunteers for mission fields.。
Please note four things in this verse.。
First, it is the Holy Spirit who does the calling.。
Second, he calls workers for a definite service.。
Third, he calls the best, Barnabas and Paul.。
Fourth, they obey.。
Let me enlarge a little bit on these four points.。
First, it is the Holy Spirit who does the calling.。
None of us should be discouraged about missionary work, since the Holy Spirit is the promoter。
and recruiter.。
The Holy Spirit moved in the latter part of the 19th century, and the student world of。
America and England was roused to join in missionary action.。
Through the instrumentality of men like D.L.。
Moody, the student volunteer movement was formed, and in 25 years' time, over 9,000。
volunteered for the mission field.。
Second, the Holy Spirit calls workers for a definite service.。
The history of missions teaches us a very important lesson.。
The greatest majority of successful and great missionaries have been those who go toward。
a definite goal which the Lord has prepared for them.。
Third, the Holy Spirit calls the best.。
The Antioch Church had every reason to keep Barnabas and Paul at home.。
They were needed more than anybody else, yet the Holy Spirit sent them away.。
Many gifted Christian workers have disobeyed the Holy Spirit because they are persuaded。
to believe that their gifts are meant for the churches at home.。
No workers who have failed in the homeland could be expected to be successful on the。
mission field.。
Facts have proved beyond doubt that missionaries who have done great things on the mission。
fields can be as greatly used of God at home.。
Yes, the mission fields demand and deserve our best men and women.。
Fourth, they obeyed.。
I think I am justified in saying that a good measure of the weakness of missionary work。
today is attributable to the unwillingness of gifted workers to obey the call of the。
Holy Spirit to go to the mission field.。
They prefer to stay at home.。
The inner call of the Holy Spirit can be drowned by the tide of general opinion.。
The general public at home should encourage their best men and women whom they think they。
cannot bear to go to the mission field.。
Second, the Holy Spirit and sacrificial giving for missions.。
Immediately following the record of Pentecost, we read of sacrificial giving in the Apostolic。
Church, Acts 2.44.。
And Ananias and Sapphira sold a possession and kept back part of the price.。
Peter referred to it as lying to the Holy Spirit.。
Two things are clear in this verse.。
First, the Holy Spirit moved Christians to give sacrificially.。
Second, many followed the prompting of the Holy Spirit, but some tried to cheat with。
clever designs.。
The Macedonian churches showed abundance of joy in great trial of affliction, as well。
as riches of liberality in deep poverty.。
What precious contrast between outward conditions and inward grace.。
The church at Thessalonica is a good example of the Macedonian churches, and Paul speaks。
of it as a church in which the Holy Spirit has moved in power.。
For our gospel came unto you in not word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit.。
Again, this proves that a Spirit-filled church is a giving one.。
The Macedonian giving is not only giving of money, but is basically giving of oneself.。
They first gave their own selves to the Lord, and then they gave money.。
The giving of money and the giving of lives have constituted the great missionary giving,。
all prompted by the Holy Spirit.。
The Pietist movement rose in the 17th century and gave birth to a missionary thrust of which。
the Moravian mission was a part.。
The Holy Spirit moved so clearly at Hern Hut that the tide of the spirit of giving rose。
high and consequently, out of a small congregation of 600, grew a mission which sent out 2,170。
missionaries in 120 years' time to many of the most difficult places in the world.。
In 1930, after 200 years of work, the ratio of missionaries to the total membership of。
this group was, according to Dr. Robert Glover, 1 to 92, which is probably an unsurpassed。
record.。
In conclusion, let us remind ourselves of Paul's words to the Galatians, "Are ye so。
foolish?。
Having begun in the Holy Spirit, are ye now made perfect by the flesh?"。
Galatians 3.3.。
Since it was by the power of the Holy Spirit that missions were started, are we to finish。
it by human efforts?。
Even as the Galatian Christians fell prey to legalism, so the church of this age has。
fallen prey to techniquism, which has been allowed to take the place of the Holy Spirit,。
who is the real source of power for missions.。
When missionary effort has become devoid of the Holy Spirit, it has rendered a human affair,。
and as such, it is a hopeless situation.。
But if it keeps in the control of the Holy Spirit, he will be the author and finisher。
of missions.。
The task will be accomplished.。
There should be a renewed call to a revival of utter dependence on the Holy Spirit and。
a diligent seeking after the fullness of the Holy Spirit in our individual lives as well。
in the lives of missionary societies.。
Then a true missionary revival will be realized.。
