Well, Merry Christmas to you all.。
(Audience) Merry Christmas.。
Sing dann, Pfeilock.。
(Laughter)。
And as I created my own song, but it's not my original,。
I want to wish you a sing dann, Pfeilock.。
I want to wish you ...。
(Singing) ... a Pfeilock.。
I want to wish you a sing dann, Pfeilock,。
from the bottom of my heart.。
(Applause)。
(Cheers)。
Yeah, that was not fully planned in that way,。
but good to see you all.。
Hey, I don't know about you,。
but some things that I appreciate about Christmas in Hong Kong。
are all these beautiful, incredible decorations.。
We have them in the malls, where they put up these awesome displays,。
you know, outside on the buildings, in some public areas,。
and it really is spectacular.。
Hong Kong really knows how to dazzle, right?。
Another thing I appreciate is,。
you can be walking through the mall during Christmas,。
and you can hear an actual Christmas carol in the mall,。
which is also amazing.。
That doesn't happen in every country.。
That's incredible.。
And then I also appreciate, maybe more out of selfish reasons,。
I appreciate also all the imported Christmas goodies and treats.。
Because they also import things from Germany,。
so I always buy some Christmas treats from Germany.。
We had some earlier, I think they're all gone now, sorry.。
But I really enjoy that.。
But if we're honest, you know, there's all of this buzz,。
and it raises a question,。
why remember and celebrate Jesus' birth 2,000 years later?。
Why do we do that?。
That's what I want to explore today on this Christmas day.。
Now, in the Gospel of John,。
which is one of four of the books in the Bible that tell the story of Jesus,。
it's a little bit different than Matthew and Luke,。
who have a birth story from Jesus.。
But he has a theological statement,。
where he tells us about Jesus coming to this world,。
and the word becoming flesh.。
So I want to read from you from John 1, verse 14, it says this,。
"The word became flesh and made his dwelling among us.。
We have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only Son,。
who came from the Father full of grace and truth."。
Now, in the Gospel of John, there are several "I am" statements.。
So there's actually seven.。
And we've been looking, as we've been journeying towards Christmas,。
we've been looking at, "I am the light of the world."。
"I am the good shepherd."。
"I am the bread and the life."。
And then, "I am the true vine."。
And today we're going to look at a fifth one.。
And these statements are very significant。
because it's Jesus actually explaining himself.。
He's talking about himself and the purpose and the meaning of himself.。
And so we should pay special attention to that.。
And we're going to look at one statement that helps us understand more。
the meaning of Christmas and why we do celebrate Christmas。
and why this is a joyous occasion that we celebrate.。
So let me set the context for these words from Jesus.。
So Jesus, he is with his disciples.。
It's actually a farewell moment.。
And he tells them some quite disturbing news.。
He tells them that one of them will betray them.。
He tells them that Peter, who was the leader amongst the disciples,。
that he's going to deny Jesus three times.。
And he tells them that he's going to go to a place。
where the disciples cannot follow, to his father's house.。
He's going to prepare a place for them.。
And then he's going to come back and get them.。
And so the disciples, they're confused by all this news。
that it's hard to process.。
They're actually fearful.。
And all of this prompts a question, a question that Thomas asked.。
And so I want to pick up where Thomas asked this question.。
It's John 14, verse 5 and 6.。
And it says this, "Thomas said to him, 'Lord, we do not know where you are going.。
How can we know the way?'。
And Jesus said, 'I am the way, the truth, and the life.。
No one comes to the Father except through me.'"。
So Thomas is confused.。
He's thinking of a literal place, and he wants to know the way.。
He wants to understand, "Jesus, how can I be with you?。
How can I get to that place?"。
And we also have these types of questions that Thomas is holding.。
We also ask about the way.。
We might not ask them to God, but we have questions about the way.。
We ask, "What's the way to success?。
What's the way to a meaningful life?。
What's the way to feeling whole because we're broken and things are difficult?。
How can I feel normal or well again?"。
And so we also pose these questions.。
And we're looking for this direction.。
Now, as I was preparing for this message,。
I had to think of a time when I literally was looking for directions.。
So a friend of mine and I, we were hiking--。
or actually, let me start over here.。
We were in Hawaii on a vacation in Maui, the island of Maui.。
And there was a big volcano, the Haleakala.。
And it's 3,055 meters high.。
And we read that there's a beautiful sunset,。
so we drove up to the top of the mountain,。
and we enjoyed the spectacular sunset.。
And then afterwards, we decided we are going to descend into the volcano,。
and 800-meter descent, altitude difference,。
and we're going to enjoy the landscape,。
even though our travel guide warned us not to go without a travel guide.。
And the reason why not to do that was because there's not much water in there.。
There's altitude sickness because it's very high,。
and you can suddenly feel good and have problems.。
But then also because of weather changes--it's hot, it's cold, it's foggy.。
There's all of that.。
But my friend and I were young, we're fearless, so we go in there.。
And it was amazing.。
It's a landscape like I've never seen before.。
It's like you're walking on the moon or something like that.。
It's absolutely incredible.。
And also quite--even a diverse type of landscape, even within there.。
And so we ran out of water.。
Thank God, a little bit afterwards, there was a hut,。
and there was one water source,。
and a person there encouraged us, "Better fill up all your bottles with water."。
So we got water again.。
So we keep hiking.。
We run out of water again.。
We finish all our food.。
We're totally lost.。
We have no idea where we're at.。
Every time we meet someone, which wasn't very often,。
we ask them for directions, and we cannot--。
they say, "You go here, and you turn right, and you'll never find here."。
So we're just completely a mess.。
And then it gets misty, and we can't see anything.。
And our clothes get wet, our pants get wet, our shoes get wet,。
and we're in trouble.。
And so finally we meet someone, and he says--。
we're like, "We want to get back to the summit."。
He's like, "Well, you hike a little bit this way, and there's a zigzag。
that goes up this steep wall.。
Take that, and that leads you to the summit."。
We're like, "Okay." So we find it actually, finally.。
So you go up the zigzag path.。
Now, to me, it felt like it was three hours.。
It probably was like an hour or an hour and a half.。
But it was super hard work.。
It was pretty much straight up.。
And so we get to the top, and my friend is so exhausted.。
I mean, he sits down. He cannot walk anymore.。
And then we see a parking lot, we see a street,。
but we're sitting there for an hour,。
and I'm pretty much in the same place as he is.。
I'm just done.。
So finally, after an hour, we manage to get ourselves up,。
and we walk towards the road, and there's a sign.。
And the sign says, "The summit is seven miles away."。
Eleven kilometers.。
And so our hearts sank.。
We're like, "There's no way in our condition that we can make this.。
There is no way."。
And so what we were, we were in need of rescue.。
We needed somebody to come and rescue us.。
And this is what Christmas is about,。
because Christmas is a rescue story.。
A lot of times you don't think about Christmas that way,。
but it is a rescue story,。
where we need somebody to come and get us and rescue us.。
Well, you might ask, "Rescue from what?"。
Well, let me set the context for that a little bit.。
In the first book of the Bible, in Genesis,。
God talks about creation and creating the world good,。
and he talks about four relational contexts.。
Us and God, us and ourselves,。
us and others, and us and creation.。
And he blessed it, and there's shalom, there's peace, there's wholeness,。
and all these relationships.。
You know, and that's amazing.。
But then, sin enters the world.。
Adam and Eve, they rebel against God,。
they do what they know is not right,。
and all these four relational contexts, they're ruptured.。
You know, we're separated from God,。
there's breakdown in our relationship to ourselves,。
there's shame, we're carrying shame and guilt,。
there is breakdown in relationship with each other,。
there's blaming,。
and there's also breakdown in relationship。
even to God's beautiful creation that we're meant to steward,。
which we now so often just destroy and exploit,。
instead of stewarding in the way that God asks us to.。
Now, in some sense, we might feel like,。
"Well, I don't, you know, like, sin ruptured all of this,。
this just happened to us, we have nothing to do with it."。
But the reality is we all contribute to it, every single one of us.。
Yes, we're impacted by what has happened, and by others,。
but we all contribute to this.。
We all do things out of selfishness that hurt others,。
we all say things we shouldn't say, or we regret that we said,。
and there's just this brokenness, it's just part of our lives.。
So this perfect world, these perfect relationships,。
that's not our experience.。
So this is a sobering reality.。
This is a sobering reality.。
And Christmas is sobering because there is a problem,。
there is an issue.。
This is part of that sobering reality,。
that we are in need of intervention,。
we are in need of rescue.。
Now, if you ever doubt if sin and evil are real,。
then ask yourself these questions.。
Why do you need to lock your door in your house?。
Why do you have to be protective of your children?。
Why are there hit and runs,。
where somebody hits somebody with a car,。
and then just drives on and let the person lay there to die?。
You know, why is there so much conflict in relationships?。
And we just can't keep help ourselves, and it just keeps happening,。
we keep doing things we don't want to do,。
and hurt each other, and it just sucks.。
Why are there wars, injustice, racism?。
So we have a sin problem,。
it runs through us, not past us, all of us.。
And we're in need of rescue.。
We need rescue, we cannot fix ourselves.。
And like Thomas, we ask, "How do we fix this mess? What do we do?"。
And people come up with solutions,。
"Well, we just got to teach and educate, and then everything will be fine."。
Well, we've been teaching and educating for forever, and it's not fine.。
Some think, "Oh, if this political party gets in charge,。
then everything will be solved, if you follow this political ideology,。
then everything will be okay, everything will be brought back in harmony."。
Well, we've had many different political parties,。
and it has never happened.。
We are in need of rescue, we cannot fix ourselves.。
And that's into these questions that we hold,。
"How do we fix this?"。
That Jesus speaks these words in verse 6, he says,。
"I am the way, the truth, and the life.。
Nobody comes through the Father except through me."。
And I want to unpack the way, the truth, the life,。
I want to unpack that in a little bit different order,。
because Jesus says he is the truth.。
What does that mean?。
It means that Jesus is the revelation of God, is God in the flesh.。
He shows us who God is, but he also shows us who we are,。
the truth about ourselves, that there is brokenness in our lives,。
that there are issues.。
So Jesus is the truth.。
He shows us how things really are,。
and we can know the truth as we get to know him.。
Then secondly, Jesus is the life.。
Jesus was part of creation, creating this world.。
He is God.。
So he brought life into being.。
He is the source of life, and in him there is life.。
And he has brought life to us and brings also eternal life into this world.。
And it's because he came here to die for our sins on behalf of us,。
because we were guilty.。
And there was a sentence that was demanded,。
and to remove the guilt from us and to give us life,。
to give us the gift of the Holy Spirit,。
to pour the Holy Spirit into our lives,。
so that the power of sin, the enslavement to sin,。
that the power of death, the power of evil is broken over our lives.。
And then when we do that, the Bible talks about that we are born again,。
that we cross over from death to life,。
because we are given a new life, we're set on a new trajectory.。
We do not now have to live in brokenness any longer.。
Change has begun.。
And God also says that one day he will complete his work,。
where all of our brokenness, all of our pains, all of our sorrows,。
all of our tears, all the difficult things that we're holding,。
that he will restore them and bring wholeness.。
And that is some good news, isn't that?。
Because we need it.。
But then Jesus also says, "I am the way."。
And the way is not good advice.。
Jesus didn't give Thomas some good advice right there.。
He's like, "Let me give you some advice."。
I love giving advice. Germans love giving advice.。
Let me tell you.。
It's not a system of beliefs.。
You need to believe this exact system, and then everything will be okay.。
No, the way is a person.。
It is a person of Jesus.。
And if we have a relationship with the way,。
if we have a relationship with Jesus,。
that's how we are brought out of our mess.。
That's where healing is brought into our circumstances,。
into whatever it is that we're carrying, whatever it is that we're holding,。
whatever it is that we're going through,。
that he brings his peace, that he brings his grace,。
that he brings his mercy, that he brings his love,。
that he gives us his presence.。
Now what's interesting, I want to set a little bit more the context of these words,。
that I am the way, the truth, and the life,。
that nobody comes to the Father except through me.。
So Jesus says that the night before he goes to the cross to lay down his life.。
Now, if good advice or five principles or a belief system were good enough,。
Jesus would not need to go to the cross.。
Then he could have just told Thomas, "Hey Thomas, you know, just do this."。
But that's not what he does.。
He tells him that he is the way and that he is the only way,。
and that it's through him that we overcome these things.。
And that is good news.。
That's the joyous news of Christmas.。
That's why we sing joy to the world.。
Because Jesus has come to bring us life and fullness,。
or life to the full, as the Gospel of John talks about.。
And to restore us back to the Father,。
and to bring wholeness into every facet of our relationships with ourselves,。
with others, with God, with creation.。
And one day he will set all that was broken by sin, he will set it right.。
So the good news of Christmas is that Jesus has come to restore us to the Father.。
Everyone is invited to receive him,。
and experience the forgiveness, joy, and healing that is found only in a relationship with him.。
So when Jesus declared that he is the way, I am the way, the truth, and the life,。
this is truly good news.。
And this is why, even 2,000 years later, we celebrate Christmas.。
Yes, Christmas acknowledges that it's sobering.。
Because we need it, we're broken people, we need him to act,。
to move in our lives, in this world, in our neighborhoods, in the city.。
But it's also joyful, because God has acted,。
and one day he will act again to complete this work of healing and restoration that he has started.。
So earlier I started a story, actually didn't finish it, right?。
We're still standing at the sign, 7 miles up the mountain, 11 kilometers up, hearts sinking.。
How are you thinking about? I don't know.。
So we're sinking at the traffic sign,。
and honestly my friend and I, we don't know what to do.。
So he became a Christian like a year ago, I was a Christian for 6, 7 years.。
So we prayed with Jesus, send us a car that can take us back up to the hill.。
10 minutes later, a car starts coming up the road, a pickup truck, we do the hitchhiking.。
Do you do that in Hong Kong this way here? No?。
Well, you do it this way in the US.。
And so the truck stops, we jump in the back of the pickup truck, he takes us all the way to the top.。
And when we get out, he told us, "Hey, you guys are so lucky, there's hardly any more cars coming here tonight."。
And besides him, our car was the only one in the parking lot.。
So Jesus sent us rescue when we needed it, and we really, really needed it.。
Now I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
Today, on this Christmas day, we celebrate a much greater work of rescue than my friend and I being rescued on the hill.。
And we didn't really need it.。
But we celebrate a much greater rescue.。
Because we can't save ourselves, we can't rescue ourselves.。
It's outside of our power, it's outside of what we're able to do.。
And the Creator of the universe, He humbled Himself, was born as a child, entered our pain, our sorrow, our sinful world,。
and died on the cross for our sins, so that we can be forgiven, that we can have life, a new life in Him,。
that we can have hope, that we can have what we call salvation, that we can receive the gift of the Holy Spirit living within us,。
and that we can receive a new life in Him.。
And that is amazing news.。
We don't have to climb up to God, because God has come down to us.。
And He has come down to every single one of us, and to whatever it is that is going on, that you are walking through,。
that's weighing down your heart, your life, the tears that have been flowing at night or wherever you are.。
He has come down to you, because He wants to meet you, He wants to bring you to Himself,。
to give you a new hope and a new life in Him.。
Now how do you receive this new hope and this new life?。
Well, we do it through faith, through trust in Jesus.。
Now what does that mean?。
Well, we believe that Jesus is who He says He is, that He is the way, that He is the truth, that He is the life.。
And it doesn't have to mean that we perfectly understand everything, but we understand that He is the one that can help us.。
And then we come to Him and we pray, because that's an act of faith.。
And so what I want to do is I want to invite you to pray this prayer along with me if you want to receive this gift that Jesus offers.。
Yeah?。
And so I'm going to say a little part, and then you can make it your own words.。
So let me pray.。
Dear Jesus,。
I now turn away from all that I've done that is wrong.。
And now you can actually tell Jesus the things that you've done that were wrong and just ask Him for forgiveness on your own.。
Just tell Him right now.。
Maybe it's that hurtful word.。
Maybe it's some action that you've done.。
Just tell Him.。
Please forgive me.。
I now turn away from all that is wrong.。
And thank you, Jesus, that you died for me on the cross to forgive my sins and to set me free.。
I now receive this gift of forgiveness and the gift of your Holy Spirit.。
Will you come into my life by your Holy Spirit and will be with me forever?。
Thank you, Lord Jesus.。
Amen.。
So let's not just celebrate the mood of Christmas, the dazzling lights, the imported foods or the dinners or lunches or whatever you do, but miss Jesus in all of that.。
Let's celebrate the meaning of Christmas.。
You know, we receive the gift which is Him that gives us great joy.。
I love you all.。
Merry Christmas.。
Let's stand up and let's worship.。
Thank you, Pastor Tim.。
30 minutes ago we sang this song.。
I hope after this message we'll sing it differently.。
