So good to see everyone. Also want to say hi to the people online.。
I know some of you are watching there. Always good to have you as well.。
I was praying for us before the service. I felt led to pray.。
And a lot of times when the Holy Spirit is working in me, then there's tears.。
So when you see me crying here, then it's usually because of the Holy Spirit.。
And as I was praying, I just had the sense that everyone here was caring a lot.。
That you all have a lot going on in your lives.。
And that we've been really busy. That we've just been really busy as a church.。
But then part of that is that we've also been, to one degree or another,。
there's been some disconnecting with Jesus.。
Where we're just not in that intimacy that Jesus desires for us,。
that probably we ourselves also desire.。
And so it was really stirred to pray for us.。
And then as we were worshipping and sang that song, "God of Revival",。
I was like, "That's it."。
God wants to do a revival in our hearts through the Holy Spirit.。
He wants to draw us back into relationship and do something new,。
something powerful, something beautiful in our lives.。
But that's us yielding ourselves to Jesus.。
That's not something that any speaker can push or force.。
It's really just the Holy Spirit moving in us, just saying,。
"Lord, we want more of you. We desire you. We hunger for more of you in our lives."。
So I don't know if that's resonating with anyone.。
That's how I felt led in prayer.。
But I just wanted to set that expectation for us today as we're here.。
I just want to encourage you to express your hunger for Jesus.。
Say, "Holy Spirit, come. Fill my life. Do work in my life. Do something new.。
I've been busy. There's other stuff that's going on.。
And just do something new and do something beautiful."。
And so, well, when I was attending or when I was studying university,。
I attended a church in Texas.。
And so this church was known for being a safe place, like a safe church。
where people from all walks of life, from diverse backgrounds, they can come.。
It's safe. It's also a place of feeling, a place of processing.。
And so that was the context of this church.。
Now, a friend of mine and I, we both attended the church.。
So on one Sunday, we both were early. We're talking with each other.。
It's nice to catch up. And I see this guy come in.。
And I turn to my friend and say in a very judging way, "What is he doing here?"。
Now, I didn't know that person.。
I just saw him for five seconds and made some observation, some judgment about him.。
And I don't even know where that came from because I'm usually not the person。
who says something like that. But I said it.。
And my friend, he responded. He said, "Tim, for you and I to be here this Sunday morning,。
it's not a big deal. It's easy for us to come here and to worship God.。
But for many people, they have so many challenges in their lives.。
There's so much difficulty that it is a big deal for them to be there."。
I'm even just sensing that for some of us here right now.。
And then he said, "And this man, he had to overcome so many barriers。
to just even be here this morning to worship with us together God."。
I was like, "Wow." It's like a mic drop moment, right?。
And he also put me in my place when I had spoken those thoughtless words.。
Now, you see at this moment that the gospel was not fully worked out in my life.。
There was judgment. And I don't know what it was.。
In some sense, I was comparing myself with him. And I was saying that I belong and he doesn't.。
I somehow measure up, he doesn't. I'm part of this church and he shouldn't be part of it.。
I mean, I would have not said it like this, but that's what my judgment ultimately said, right?。
And so that moment showed me that there still is a lot of things that need to be worked out in my heart,。
in my mind, in my thinking, in my feelings, in my actions.。
And that I need more Jesus. I need more Jesus. And I still need more Jesus today.。
I'm still a work in progress. I'm sure that some of you, you're feeling that way as well.。
And I need the Holy Spirit to do a continuous work in my life, in my heart.。
Now truth be told, we all at one point or another, we find ourselves in this place。
where there's just things that pop up in our lives that are just not pretty,。
where we see we are a work in progress. For me, it was that judgment.。
For you, maybe it's something else. Maybe it has something to do with relationships.。
Maybe it has something to do with your workplace.。
Maybe it has something to do with your private life or your ethics.。
I don't know, but you know.。
And so, as I was preparing this message today, I just had the sense that Jesus really wants to lead us。
in aligning our lives more with the truth of the gospel.。
To bring us more in alignment with the truth of the gospel.。
So I want to discuss with you this question.。
How can I more fully align my life with the truth of the gospel?。
And what does that look like? What does that even mean?。
How can I take my life that's not where I want it to be, to be more fully like the life of Jesus?。
That my life shines Jesus when somebody looks at it.。
That he can see, man, there's something different in this person's life.。
That it shines Jesus.。
So that's what I want to explore with you today through this message.。
We're in the book of Galatians. We're continuing our sermon series.。
This is the third week. Actually, I don't know if you don't mind. Sorry. I apologize.。
Can we turn the mic off for a second?。
I think I'm good.。
So let me set the context for our passage.。
So in the sermon series, we're exploring what does it mean to have Jesus at the center of our lives?。
What does it mean to work out the gospel and the implications of the gospel for us as individuals, but also for us as a church?。
And so let me briefly set the context for our passage.。
So Paul, he started churches in Galatians.。
Actually, while he was sick, he planted his church, or actually multiple churches in Galatia.。
And then he left to move on to continuous work for God.。
And other people followed him.。
The book of Galatians refers to them as a group of agitators.。
And so they come in after him, and they're telling the Galatians that Paul is not truly preaching or sharing the gospel.。
That he left out half the part because he's a people pleaser.。
And he didn't want to share the part that was difficult.。
And that part was like observing, in addition to believing in Jesus and what Jesus has done, that there was additional stuff that was needed.。
Like observing the law.。
So they were worried about ethics.。
That they wanted the life to be ethical.。
And then the second thing they accused Paul, and Pastor Andrew touched on that last week.。
That he was a second-rate apostle.。
That his credentials didn't quite measure up.。
And so then Paul, in this letter, he knows that what these teachers are doing, they're leading the Galatians astray.。
You know, they're leading them away from the truth.。
And Paul knows that this type of thinking, it's a spiritual dead end.。
That it doesn't lead to the life that Jesus wants to unfold in his people.。
It's a dead end.。
And so he writes this very, probably the most passionate letter in the New Testament.。
And very strongly defends this gospel message, the essence of the Christian faith.。
And so today, as we continue, this is a continuation of the defense of the gospel, that text that we're going to look at.。
But before we read it, I want to provide a little bit of context as well.。
There is a name that's being used, Cephas.。
Now Cephas is the Aramaic name for Peter.。
So actually, when we read Peter, so just keep that in mind as I'm about to read the passage.。
It's the Apostle Peter that this is talking about.。
Okay? You ready? Sounds good?。
Alright, let's do this.。
So Galatians 2, starting in verse 11, says this.。
"But when Cephas came to Aniak, I posed him to his face, because he stood condemned.。
For before certain men came from James, he was eating with Gentiles.。
But when they came, he drew back and separated himself, fearing the circumcision party.。
And the rest of the Jews acted hypocritically along with him, so that even Barnabas was led astray by their hypocrisy.。
But when I saw that their conduct was not in line, not in step with the truth of the gospel,。
I said to Cephas, 'Before them all, if you, though a Jew, live like a Gentile and not like a Jew,。
how can you force Gentiles to live like Jews?'。
We ourselves are Jews by birth, and not Gentile sinners.。
Yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law,。
but through faith in Jesus Christ.。
So we also have believed in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ,。
and not by works of the law.。
Because the works of the law, no one will be justified.。
But if in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too were found to be sinners,。
is Christ then a servant of sin?。
Certainly not.。
For if I rebuild what I tore down, I prove myself to be a transgressor.。
For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God.。
I have been crucified with Christ, and the life I now live--。
I have been crucified with Christ, it is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me.。
And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God,。
who loved me and who gave himself for me.。
I do not nullify the grace of God.。
For if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose.。
That was a lot.。
But this is some of the most powerful words in Scripture, and I want to unpack those.。
So the first thing is, there is an incident, and it's between Peter and Paul.。
So Paul, he says that, "I opposed them to his face."。
And he also says that he did that before them all, so he did it publicly.。
Now I don't know about you, but when somebody confronts someone else to their face。
and does this publicly, it's a pretty big deal, right?。
Yes.。
And so what's going on here?。
So what happened, and why is this a big deal?。
Why is Paul making such a big fuss?。
Well, let's explore that. What happened?。
Well, Peter, he's a Jewish man, so that's his background.。
And he had this powerful experience where God revealed to him that it was okay to eat certain foods,。
and then servants from Cornelius came, and then he ended up eating with them.。
And so it was in the Book of Acts, the Scripture of the Mount,。
because most Jewish people, because of their food laws and customs,。
they don't eat with other people because they don't follow the same food laws.。
But Peter, he was eating with Gentiles, so he had gotten past this.。
But now a group of people came, the circumcision group, they came from Jerusalem,。
and Peter caves into pressure, he caves into fear of them.。
Out of fear of them, he stops eating with Gentiles.。
And Gentiles, by the way, just means everyone else who's not a Jewish person,。
so it would be most of us here.。
And so he stops having table fellowship with them, he stops sharing meals.。
And so that's what happened. But why is this a big deal?。
Why can't Peter just eat with whoever he wants to eat with?。
Isn't anyone free to just eat who they want to eat with?。
Well, let me explain that a little bit.。
Now, I don't know if you have ever had the experience, maybe it's like with your company,。
you want to go to lunch, or there's a company party and you try to sit at a table,。
and even though people can make space for you, they choose not to.。
And there's some communication that they really don't want you to sit at their table.。
Now that doesn't feel good, right?。
I also have to think of my own family story.。
My father, he grew up and he was the target of my grandfather's anger.。
And so a lot of times my father was not allowed to eat with the family.。
He had to eat by himself as a little kid.。
Now just think of how traumatic that is,。
because ultimately what it's saying is, you're not really part of the family. Right?。
Well, that's kind of what's happening in this incident.。
Because when Peter stopped eating with the Gentiles,。
they're all Christian brothers and sisters,。
he's saying, you're not really part of this family.。
There's something wrong with you. That's what his actions say.。
That's a pretty ugly, ugly thing, right?。
Now sharing a meal together has always been, and still is today,。
a powerful symbol of association.。
And there's still so much division around who we eat with.。
There's still today lots of people who would not eat with a person。
from a certain ethnic or cultural background,。
or from somebody who's from a different socioeconomic class.。
So all this stuff still happens today.。
And so that's part of the issue that Paul is calling out.。
But in Peter, there's also some, he's reverting back to his old ways.。
There's also some pride from a people group,。
where he's acting in that pride over against another group.。
Now in verse 13, we're told that Peter acted hypocritically.。
So he actually didn't believe what he did was true, but he did it anyhow.。
So it doesn't make it any better, right?。
If you make people feel like they're not truly human,。
and they need to eat somewhere else,。
even if you don't truly believe that, but you act that way,。
that's not good.。
Now, what made all of this worse, you have to think of who Peter is.。
Peter is one of the disciples of Jesus.。
He is one of the main leaders in the early Christian movement,。
and he's acting this way.。
Wow.。
And then suddenly, all these other people are starting to follow him,。
all these other Jewish Christians, they're following his example.。
That's a lot of times when leaders act wrongly,。
and others follow because they think that person should know.。
And so his actions divide the body of Christ.。
It says in verse 14, it says this,。
"But when I saw that their conduct was not in step with the truth of the gospel,"。
so he's talking about all of them following along,。
"I set to see if it was before them all,"。
actually, that's the part I want to look at, the first part,。
"but when I saw that their conduct was not in step with the truth of the gospel."。
So this is the heart of the problem.。
Peter's action was not in step with the truth of the gospel,。
because the truth of the gospel is this,。
that God loves every single person equally,。
that every single person is created in the image of God,。
and that also every single person is saved equally.。
Like we all stand 100% sinful before God,。
and we all need 100% of Jesus to rescue and deliver us.。
And then he makes us family, he makes us a spiritual family,。
brothers and sisters in Christ,。
and that's always powerful when a church lives that out,。
when people from different socioeconomic backgrounds,。
different ethnic backgrounds, different cultural backgrounds,。
when they are a family and they love each other,。
because that's usually not what we find in surrounding culture.。
Maybe we find it officially as slogans from companies,。
but it's so many times not lived out,。
and sadly sometimes it's not lived out in the church.。
That's why for us this is so important.。
We're an intentionally diverse church,。
and we want to live out this truth of the gospel,。
but here Peter was undermining it through his actions.。
But that was not the only way.。
The other way was that his actions also indirectly communicated。
that Jesus' saving work is not enough,。
that something else was needed,。
that you needed to observe the Mosaic Law,。
men had to go through circumcision,。
so you had to do these extra stuff to have right standing with God.。
That's what I was communicating, and Paul says no.。
It's just Jesus. It's nothing else.。
It's just Jesus.。
So Paul takes Peter,。
so they're still continuing this conversation, this conflict,。
and he says this in verse 6,。
and he says, "Yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law,"。
so he says, "Peter, you know that, but through faith in Jesus Christ."。
So we also believed in Christ Jesus in order to be justified.。
You and I, we did the same thing, man.。
We believed in Jesus so that we can experience this right standing with God,。
because by the works of the Lord, no one is justified.。
You know, we know that.。
So Peter's actions were undermining the truth of the Gospel.。
His actions were not in line with the truth of the Gospel。
when he was pushing people through his actions to observe these laws.。
Now, we are not saved because of something that we do,。
but because of what Jesus Christ has done on the cross.。
And Christianity is kind of weird in this way,。
because it says that there is nothing that you can do to earn right standing with God.。
Nothing. Absolutely nothing.。
It sounds pretty depressing, right?。
It doesn't matter how many good deeds you do.。
It doesn't matter,。
because the human problem is there's just sin in our hearts and our lives,。
just like I shared in the beginning of my story.。
There's just stuff in us, and that sin separates us from God.。
And it's so serious that Jesus came to die for us。
and to deal with this problem that we cannot deal with,。
so that we can have new life in him,。
that we can experience forgiveness,。
that we can become righteous people, truly righteous,。
not out of our own strength,。
but by the power of the Holy Spirit.。
So Paul confronts Peter to his face,。
because his actions are not in step with the truth of the gospel.。
So that's what's going on here.。
So this is a very critical observation, I believe, for us.。
As Christians, we need to do our best to continue to ensure。
that our lives are in step with the truth of the gospel.。
God wants to bring alignment.。
He wants us to reflect Jesus more.。
So Paul is recounting all this stuff in this confrontation,。
in his writing to the Galatians,。
because they are losing their way.。
They're getting unaligned with the truth of the gospel among themselves.。
So that's why Paul shares a story with them, about this incident.。
And he's calling them back to align their lives with the truth of the gospel.。
So what does it point to this...。
What this all points to is that the gospel is not just something。
that we believe to begin our Christian life.。
A lot of times, as Christians, we think, "Oh, I graduated from the gospel.。
I believed, and now I moved on to discipleship and other stuff.。
I'm more mature. This was like the beginning."。
But the gospel is something that we have to work out continuously in our lives.。
So our thinking, our feeling, our actions。
are more and more in step with the truth of the gospel.。
And I just wonder,。
what are some of your thoughts, some of your feelings,。
some of your actions right now。
that are not in line, not in step with the truth of the gospel?。
You know, where are we off?。
So that brings me back to a question I asked at the beginning of the message.。
How can I more fully align my life with the truth of the gospel?。
You know, how do you do that?。
Well, we find some guidance from Paul in this passage that we're looking at today,。
too, in verse 20, he says this,。
"I have been crucified with Christ.。
It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me.。
And the life I now live in the flesh,。
I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and who gave himself for me."。
So there's a paradox here. There's a paradigm here for us.。
That there is a dying that opens up a new way to living.。
There is a dying that opens up a new way to living.。
So Paul talks about being crucified with Christ.。
That means his sinful self, his pride, his selfishness,。
those things have been nailed to the cross.。
They've been put to death by what Jesus has done.。
And he's been raised to a new life where it's now Christ who lives in him.。
And then what does that mean?。
Well, now, because of that has happened in Paul's life,。
he now can live by faith in the Son of God who loves him and who gave him,。
what does it say?。
Oh, look, here.。
"Who loved me and gave himself for me."。
So he can do that now.。
He can do that by the power of the Holy Spirit.。
And so for our own journey,。
how do we live this life of faith in the Son of God?。
How do we live this life of faith in Jesus?。
That's the Son of God.。
And how does that bring us to align our lives more with the truth of the gospel?。
Well, our journey always begins with dying to our old sinful self.。
And yes, there's a once-and-for-all element to that for us。
because Christ has won a victory for us, we're declared righteous.。
It's like a verdict over our lives that stands for the rest of our lives.。
Like we are justified because of what Christ has done.。
But then Jesus doesn't stop there.。
There's an ongoing process.。
It's called sanctification, where God wants to make us holy.。
He wants to make us more and more like him because, let's be honest,。
even in our lives, there's still a lot of stuff that needs to be worked out.。
And so there needs to be a continuous dying to our selfishness,。
to our pride, to our sinful ways,。
so that it opens up a new way to living differently,。
to living in a powerful way that reflects the love of Jesus,。
that Christ becomes alive in our lives, that he's visible in your life,。
that he's visible in my life.。
And the Holy Spirit will lead us as we live that life of faith.。
And he will also convict us of the things。
that still need convicting in our lives.。
And so ultimately, how do we align ourselves with the truth of the gospel?。
Well, it actually flows out of a personal relationship with Jesus。
that we engage in continuously.。
And I want to explain this a little bit through a story.。
So, another time at a university,。
there was this guy that just really rubbed me the wrong way.。
Like, I just had a hard problem with him.。
He was a good guy, he was nothing, he was not an evil person.。
I just really struggled with his personality.。
I'm not going to ask if anyone can relate, right?。
So on one occasion, he comes into my room,。
he had been gone for the weekend, he forgot his toothbrush,。
and he asked me if he can borrow my toothbrush.。
And I was like, "Dude, you don't borrow people's toothbrush.。
Let me buy you one."。
Another time, he was blocking the hallway, I needed to go to class.。
I'm going to class, and he's like,。
"You first got to fight me before you get through here."。
Now, he was as big as me, so just putting that in context.。
But I was like, "I'm sorry, I just really need to go to class.。
Can you just please let me go to class?"。
And he didn't understand I was serious, and I tried multiple times,。
I was like, "Please, I'm just trying to go to class.。
I don't want to fight you."。
And then finally, he's like, "No, you got to first fight me."。
I was like, "Okay."。
So I put my--I don't know what you call this,。
I know the German word--you put your leg behind him,。
I put him on the ground, and I was like, "I'm sorry, I need to go to class."。
So I went to class.。
But there was also a lot of judgment and pride in my heart towards him,。
and talking bad behind his back.。
So it was not pretty.。
Fast forward a year.。
I sign up at this university for a Christian community group.。
I have no idea who's going to be placed in my community group.。
Guess who's in my community group?。
It's him.。
And so as soon as I see him, I'm like,。
"I think I'm going to quit this community group."。
But then something happened.。
The Holy Spirit convicted me that my thinking and my feelings。
were not what honored him.。
And so then I knew that God wanted me to stay in this community group,。
even though it was so difficult for me, and I really lacked the patience.。
So I stayed in this community group.。
I prayed.。
I prayed for myself.。
I prayed for him.。
I prayed for God to help me to listen, to be loving, to be caring.。
And so that's the dying part.。
You know, we have to die to my thinking, my feelings.。
They're just not in line with Jesus, with his love.。
And it doesn't happen overnight.。
It's a process.。
It's like a constant, like surrendering, "Jesus, take this.。
Help me.。
Help me, Jesus."。
So then this went for two years.。
One year was not enough for me.。
I needed two years.。
And I can truthfully say that after two years,。
I genuinely loved and appreciated my brother in Christ.。
I really did.。
And I didn't feel annoyed anymore.。
I didn't have those feelings, and God really changed my heart.。
He aligned my thinking and my feelings with the truth of the gospel.。
But there's another aspect to this.。
Now, why would you do that?。
Why would I -- you know, when you go on Instagram and you look at the influencers,。
they tell you, "You do you.。
You just do what you feel like," right?。
So if I were to do what I felt like, I would never stay in that group.。
But it's because Jesus is in my life, and the Holy Spirit is at work.。
He's like, "Uh-uh.。
You're not who I've created you to be, Tim.。
I want you to be more fully -- be conformed to my image.。
I want you to be a more true reflection, expression of my love."。
And, of course, we can say no to that, even as Christians.。
So it's a daily -- our aligning ourselves with the truth of the gospel,。
with our thinking, with our feelings, with our actions,。
but there's a daily living out that relationship with Jesus。
and just relying on his grace, coming to him in prayer,。
dying to all parts of ourselves so that we can be raised,。
so that there's a new path for new living.。
You know, that's what he wants to do.。
He wants some parts to die so there's a new way of living,。
there's true transformation.。
So those are things that we can't do on ourselves.。
This is the work of God in our lives, 100%.。
This was not me.。
All I can say is, "Okay, Jesus, yes, I hear what you're saying.。
Help me."。
You know, and that's what that means.。
That's what it means to live by faith in the Son of God who loved me。
and who died for me.。
I want to summarize things here.。
The realigning of our thoughts, feelings, and actions to the truth of the gospel。
happens as we consistently live out our personal relationship with Jesus.。
And I believe that's what Jesus is calling us.。
If you're a Christian, I believe that's what Jesus is calling you this morning.。
Just to draw back into that relationship with him,。
to say yes to what he's saying to you.。
He's speaking to you.。
I don't know what he's saying to you, but you know.。
You have the Holy Spirit living in you.。
You know, to say yes to that, to say, "Yes, Jesus, I want what you want,。
not what I want.。
Not my way, but your way.。
Not my will, but your will."。
And we surrender, say, "Jesus, take my life and lead me into this life that you have."。
And we can trust that whatever Jesus has is always better than our own plans.。
It's always better.。
He created us.。
He knows.。
So I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
Now, as I was reading over this powerful statement from Paul,。
"I have been crucified with Christ.。
It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me.。
And the life I now live, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me。
and gave himself for me."。
I love how personal Paul puts us here.。
This is not a general truth.。
This is deeply personal to Paul.。
And it's really this love, you know, when we know Jesus,。
that's out of--because he loved us so much, that's why we even care to do this stuff.。
That's why instead of just doing you do you, you know, do your thing,。
we actually say, "Jesus, I want to do what you want to do," because he loved us.。
He poured out his life for you, for me, on his cross so that we can be forgiven,。
that we can be brought in relationship.。
So he loved--the letter of John says, "We love because God first loved us."。
And so he wants to move us today deeper into his love。
from people whose faith is expressed in love towards other people.。
And God gives us the grace. He gives us the forgiveness.。
I shared all this ugly stuff about my life, right,。
all this inner dialogue that most people never see.。
But even in that, God meets us with grace.。
He meets us with forgiveness because he loves us.。
And so I just wonder, you know, how is Jesus inviting you to respond to his love today?。
How is he inviting you deeper into what he has for your life?。
What are some areas in your life where you're thinking,。
your feelings and actions are not aligned with the truth of the gospel?。
Where is the Holy Spirit leading you to do some dying so that he can open up a new way of living for you?。
This is good news. You can truly change.。
You can become a more loving, beautiful person, not because of you,。
but because of Jesus working in your life, because of the Holy Spirit moving you, transforming you.。
But it's our choice to say yes to that.。
And so I just want to actually invite you right now into a prayer time.。
Just what's God been saying to you throughout this service?。
And just to talk to him.。
So you can ponder on those questions that I asked there, and in about two minutes I'll pray for us.。
So let's pray right now.。
Let's commune with Jesus.。
(Prayer is sung)。
(Prayer is sung)。
(Prayer is sung)。
(Prayer is sung)。
(Prayer is sung)。
(Prayer is sung)。
(Prayer is sung)。
(Prayer is sung)。
(Prayer is sung)。
(Prayer is sung)。
(Prayer is sung)。
(Prayer is sung)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
(Piano music)。
Amen.。
[MUSIC]。
