Amen.。
Amen.。
Can we put hands together for Jason?。
Thank you so much.。
Yay.。
So, it's January, we're doing this fast, it's the time we want to spend time, focus on God.。
And I remember last year I shared something quite personal from my heart, from my own。
journey and today I intend to do the same thing.。
I intend to share something more personal or bring about this message in a more personal。
way.。
I hope that's okay with you.。
So let's just begin with this.。
At the end of every year, I would ask myself a question, a very simple question.。
I would ask myself this, did I just go through the year or did I actually grow through it?。
That's the question I ask myself.。
And so things like, did I learn something new this year?。
Did I try to apply a new solution to an old problem?。
Or am I still struggling with old mistakes in my life?。
Or do I look a little bit more like Jesus this year or talk a little bit more like Him?。
So these are the questions I would ask myself.。
But if I'm honest with myself and if I'm honest with you all, I would say there are years。
in my life when I ask myself these questions and I'm like, no, I think I just barely went。
through it.。
I think I'm still the same person after the entire year.。
And when I'm this kind of honest with myself, sometimes I'm thinking, yeah, I'm not always。
growing as much as I wish I had because growing old is inevitable.。
You might have heard me talk about that before.。
We always age.。
We keep aging.。
We can't stop that.。
Growing old is inevitable.。
But growing up is always optional.。
There's always a choice.。
People that repeat the same mistakes again and again and again and again.。
Some of us, we never grow up.。
We just keep growing old.。
And so I was reflecting a little bit every year how I am growing or not growing.。
And when I look back, there are some major ways where God would come and do something。
in my life that would help me grow.。
Often that involves, number one, a paradigm shift.。
Something in my head is like different.。
In the book of Romans, Paul says it's called the renewing of our mind.。
So by encountering God's truth, something inside here changed and so we grow a little。
bit more like Jesus.。
Just like the two disciples who are on the road to Emmaus on the first Easter.。
They were so sad but then they encountered Jesus.。
What Jesus did was he opened up the entire Old Testament scripture with them and he explained。
that with them in the entire journey and all of a sudden something just clicked inside。
and they changed.。
Their perspective on who Jesus is, his kingdom, and what their role is completely changed.。
So we sometimes need that kind of experience.。
Hopefully this happens during the preaching or teaching time here at church.。
When you come in, you have an encounter with truth himself, just like the two disciples。
had on the road.。
But there are times as well, I think during what we're going through in life in that journey,。
there are moments the Holy Spirit will just draw near you and whisper in your ears and。
by that still small voice he would come and speak to you and tell you things and because。
of those words that God spoke directly into your heart, you grew and you changed and something。
is different inside of you.。
When I look back in my life, I could think of a lot of moments like that where God came。
and taught me something valuable lessons.。
So that's a paradigm shift.。
The last year or more precisely before last year, before 2024, I was just, you know, towards。
the end of the year I was praying casually like, okay now 2024, okay God, what do you。
want to talk to me about?。
And very conveniently my birthday lies on the very end of the year.。
So it's kind of like, oh, let me review my life in the past year.。
So I always do that towards the end of the year.。
And I was just praying and I was hoping, okay, maybe God would ask me to do something so。
transformative like going on a mission trip, so adventurous to places I've never been。
before to places that I can't even name them up here on the stage.。
Wow, that would be life changing.。
That would be great.。
Or maybe I would meet some spiritual giants and have some quality time with them and then。
whatever they said would inspire me.。
Or wish that actually happened in 2024.。
But then when I was praying, I actually heard these from God.。
He said, "Hey Chapman, in 2024, I want you to do this.。
I want you to go back to the basics."。
I'm like, huh?。
Going back to the basics?。
Like God, what do you mean?。
What do you mean going back to the basics?。
Like focus on the simple things.。
Things that people do or should do every day.。
Sometimes we overlook, we forgot to do every day.。
And so when God told me I should go back to the basics in 2024, long story short, I unexpectedly。
reconnected with a concept that I have subconsciously kind of rejected for a while.。
And that concept or idea, it's called spiritual discipline.。
And you may be like, "Whoa, what are you talking about, Chapman?。
You're a pastor and you subconsciously reject spiritual discipline?。
What are you?"。
Okay, okay, just hear me out, just hear me out before you freak out, all right?。
So I'm Chinese.。
Growing up in Hong Kong, I was from a, I grew up as a Christian and where I came from, we。
talk a lot about spiritual disciplines.。
We put a heavy emphasis on spiritual discipline.。
When I was a kid, when I went to church, my pastor, she would ask these questions like,。
"So have you done your devotional this week?"。
And I was like, "Yeah, how many times?"。
And so going to church or spiritual discipline looks a little bit like this.。
It looks like, yeah, I have to do something, put in some effort in order to earn something,。
some recognition.。
Either I feel better about myself or other people feel a little bit better about me.。
And sometimes, maybe some of us, we have experienced that.。
You come from a similar background and you have missed one or two days or three or four。
days on your Bible reading plan or devotional plan and then you feel so bad about yourself.。
I'm such a poor Christian.。
I'm so unworthy.。
I don't love God enough.。
And you keep beating yourself up.。
That's normally what happens.。
Or on the other hand, on some good weeks, maybe school holiday or whatever, or I've。
just been to a revival meeting and I come home and I'm like, "Okay, I've been reading。
the Bible every single day.。
I have seven takes in my reading plan."。
And you suddenly feel so pumped up like, "Oh, come on.。
I'm the best Christian in the entire church.。
Look at them.。
You see?。
Five takes.。
Oh, six takes only.。
Where did that day go?。
What did you do on that day?。
How come we didn't?"。
We do that kind of stuff, right?。
We compare ourselves with one another.。
And so all this spiritual discipline, it became work.。
It became something for us to seek approval or recognition.。
But then one day I heard about the truth that Jesus didn't come to build religion.。
Jesus came to build relationships with us.。
And that was like, "What?。
Yeah!"。
And so I realized all my understanding about my approach to what faith was wrong.。
So I started pursuing this love of Jesus.。
"Jesus, I just want to be a lover of Jesus, lover of my soul."。
Or, you know, oh yeah, we have some younger songs, "Jesus, you are my best friend."。
So these are the kind of songs I sang when I grew up and I, "Oh yeah, Jesus, I just want。
to be your best friend.。
You're my best friend.。
I just want to be your lover," and all that.。
And so yeah, whatever those, you know, spiritual discipline, they sound very legalistic.。
They sound very pharisaic.。
So yeah, I'm going to throw that out of the window.。
And from now on, I'm just going to pursue this relationship with Jesus.。
And all relationship should be organic, should be natural.。
We don't need those things.。
So when I was young, I actually had this thought that spiritual discipline and my relationship。
with God, they're actually on the opposite polar, opposite side of the spectrum.。
They don't, you know, they're just opposite.。
Until I became a dad.。
Oh yeah, then I heard my daughter say, yeah, God actually re-educated me about spiritual。
disciplines through my daughters or through the time we spent together.。
So soon after the pandemic, 2023, we planted this church.。
And then maybe in the middle of the year, me and Roslyn, we joined the church.。
And before it was pandemic, I was in Wan Chai.。
I don't always have to, I don't work on weekdays, evening, basically.。
So every night I'm home, but then we come to Yuen Long and then we started running Alpha。
and then we have worship practice on Thursday and then Wednesday or Thursday, maybe a Friday.。
So we started coming out a lot at night.。
And there was one night, our daughter, as we were leaving the house, our daughter just。
started yelling and crying.。
She said, I don't want daddy, mommy to go to church.。
That was a wake up call for us.。
And we started thinking about it and wow, we actually need to be conscious about a schedule。
during the week.。
So we try to make adjustments.。
We try to make sure we don't go out two nights in a row.。
We try to stay at home and have dinner with them.。
We consider that very important.。
And then I learned, if I consider people important in my life, then I have to make time for them.。
And when I want to say yes to them, it means we have to say no to other things.。
And when I practice at first, it's very hard for me to say no, especially, you know, it's。
God, ministry, church, and all that.。
I feel, but then I practice.。
I try to say no one time and then another time and then another time.。
As I keep saying no to other things in order to prioritize people, I feel they are the。
most important to me.。
That become a discipline.。
Well, you can argue that's kind of spiritual as well, because it's my family.。
So that become my spiritual discipline.。
And what I learned over the time as we do this, as we try to practice this, by the way,。
I'm not saying I'm perfect right now.。
There are still times I'm like, oops, I double booked myself.。
I book myself like multiple nights a week.。
We're still trying, but what I learned along the journey, it's that, you know, before I。
thought discipline and relationship, they're on the opposite end of the spectrum.。
But in this experience, what I learned was spiritual discipline or disciplines, they。
actually make room and make time for my relationship to grow.。
When I am present, when I make it a discipline, that's the time when I get to bond with the。
people I love the most.。
That's spiritual discipline.。
And some of you have heard me talking about this, that my top spiritual discipline in。
the last couple of years, it's actually bedtime stories.。
I think some of you have heard me talk about that.。
But something I will never miss as long as I'm at home.。
As long as I'm home, I'll try to, you know, tell a bedtime story, read a book, whatever.。
And you look at me, yeah, of course, Chapman, you like storytelling, right?。
Yeah, I like storytelling.。
I started storytelling on the stage at the age of five or six.。
And I love it.。
But I'm telling you this, I don't always enjoy bedtime stories, especially when I'm asked。
to read the same book 20 nights in a row.。
Three little pigs, daddy.。
I want three little pigs tonight.。
But what I learned in that journey was, if I don't know if you ask my daughters now,。
I don't know if they will say that to you, but at home, they say this a lot.。
They say, daddy is so funny.。
Yes, of course, I know I'm funny.。
I'm very well aware of that.。
But I don't always act funny when I'm at home.。
I don't normally do that during dinner.。
I don't normally do it like when I'm asking them, hey, go to bathe.。
Hey, go to bed.。
I'm not always funny like that.。
I think when I look back in my life, the funniest moment in my life when I was with them is。
actually bedtime stories.。
Maybe when I have to pretend to the big bad wolf and have to climb down the chimney and。
then I burn my butt because the pigs prepare you.。
Anyway, this is the thing.。
My daughter gets to experience who I am, my character, through what I may not always enjoy。
doing but I discipline myself to do.。
My daughter get to experience who I am through something I may not even be very passionate。
about doing, but I discipline myself to do.。
When there's a discipline, when relationships have space and time to grow, we get to know。
each other.。
And can you imagine, church, in 2025, you get to experience God's character and who。
he is simply through your spiritual discipline?。
Wouldn't that be amazing?。
And you know, the funny thing was I talked about, you know, I always look for growth。
in moments of paradigm shifts, like aha moments, like, oh, wow, God came and spoke to me.。
There's an inspiration.。
There's a revelation.。
He taught me something.。
Oh, I write that down.。
I grow so much.。
I always look for that kind of moments.。
When I was praying for my 2024, I was praying for moments of paradigm shift, but actually。
God told me, no, I want you to focus on spiritual discipline.。
And what I end up getting is a paradigm shift in my view of spiritual discipline.。
Okay, more people laugh than a Kennedy service.。
That's okay.。
I can live with that.。
And so this is what I want to talk about today.。
A paradigm shift in our perspective in spiritual disciplines at the beginning of 2025 as we。
continue our series on prayer.。
Today we're going to look at the very first letter Paul wrote in the New Testament.。
It's called First Thessalonians.。
Paul planted this church with his partner Silas during his second mission trip, but。
they faced a lot of opposition and they had no choice but to flee the city.。
He then sent Timothy back to encourage, to take care of the church community, and he。
found out from Timothy that actually their faith, despite all these struggles or opposition。
or difficulties or challenge, their faith actually grew even stronger.。
And so Paul wrote this letter to express, oh, I love you guys so much.。
I heard so much good things about you guys.。
And oh, I really long to see you guys.。
He wrote all about all this and also to encourage them to continue to grow in their relationship。
with God.。
So this is the book that we'll read a tiny bit today.。
We're going to read the last bit of this book.。
We'll read from chapter 5, verse 16.。
Paul says to this church, he says, "Hey, rejoice always, pray continually or pray without ceasing.。
Give thanks in all circumstances for this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus."。
I'm sure you have received like bookmarks, cards, a fridge magnet with this verse on。
it before.。
The first time I got in touch with this verse, I was a kid in church, maybe kindergarten。
or young primary age.。
We were given this flashcard with the verse on it.。
We have to memorize it.。
The next week we come back, if we could say it out loud without looking, we get a sticker.。
That's how I remember this verse.。
We will earn a sticker.。
And when I grew up, I treated this verse like a command, like something we must strive to。
achieve.。
But of course, without understanding what Paul actually mean here, it just ended up。
becoming a burden or some empty religious slogan.。
And we may just follow it half-heartedly or sometimes we may even misquote them in different。
scenarios.。
So today I want to look a little bit, just very short, three verses, three short sentences.。
I want to unpack this with us and see how God is going to change our paradigm on spiritual。
discipline.。
If that's okay with you, is that okay?。
Father, we pray that you will come and speak to us today.。
Your spirit will come and anoint us, open our minds to you.。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
Amen.。
When we look at these words, rejoice always, sometimes we treat them like a reminder to,。
"Hey, buddy, cheer up.。
Cheer up, come on.。
Put a smile on your face.。
Ha ha ha ha."。
Like on good days, this could make a good bumper sticker.。
Yeah, you know, rejoice always.。
Yes, put a sticker on yourself.。
Rejoice always.。
Yes, hallelujah.。
But you know, when there are some really bad days or when something, you're going through。
something really tragic or challenging or struggling, we may find it pretty harsh.。
It's such a harsh demand on us.。
If I'm struggling right now, if I'm going through pain right now, let's say if my career。
is at risk, like my company is laying off people or if I'm fighting a major health problem,。
none of this is good news.。
How do you expect me to be joyful?。
Should I force myself to laugh?。
Should I just tickle myself until I laugh?。
So what Paul writes here, just to be clear, it's not a command to be happy.。
It's not a command to even feel happy.。
When he says rejoice, all the time he means rejoice in the Lord.。
This is the same kind of language he employed in another letter he wrote to the Philippi。
Christians and he wrote this in Philippians 4.。
He says, you know, rejoice in the Lord always.。
You see, rejoice always, but you got three more words, in the Lord.。
There's a context.。
When Paul says rejoice always, he says rejoice in the Lord always.。
And that's very interesting because if you're an Old Testament reader, you would find this。
phrase very familiar.。
This actually, this phrase actually echoes the language that is used in a particular。
Old Testament book, the Psalm, the hymn book of the Hebrews.。
And this is a call to worship that we can find in Psalms such as in Psalm 95 it says,。
"Come, let us sing for joy to the Lord.。
Let us shout aloud to the rock of our salvation."。
Or in Psalm 100 it says this, "Shout for joy to the Lord.。
All the earth worship the Lord with gladness.。
Come before him with joyful songs."。
Let me say this again.。
The phrase rejoice always, it is not a command to cheer up.。
Instead, it is an invitation to worship.。
In the Old Testament in the Psalms when it talks about, hey, rejoicing the Lord is always。
a call to worship.。
And worship, it's always joyful because if you know who you are worshiping, he's not。
just the creator, he's not just the king of kings, not just the master, but he's also。
our savior.。
He's the rock of our salvation.。
He will save us.。
He will help us.。
He will not abandon us.。
Last month I was preaching on Mary's song called the Magnificat.。
She sang that, "My spirit rejoices in God, my savior."。
There's a reason for our joy.。
I spoke about that last month because we have a God who's not just a master watching over。
us making sure we don't make mistakes or he's not just the one who created us and just dump。
us here.。
He is our savior.。
When we're in trouble, he's always the one that will show up.。
He's always the one who would come to our rescue.。
He's always the one ever present in our life.。
And so Jesus, yes, he has saved us on the cross.。
And while we will experience that fullness of salvation the day when Jesus comes back,。
we are already experiencing that transformation, that love, that joy.。
Jesus had already made it possible for us when he died on the cross.。
So when Paul calls us to worship and to rejoice, we could only do that if our hearts truly。
recognize God as a savior.。
Oh, because this is a God of worship.。
When I'm in trouble, he will come to my rescue.。
He will come and save me.。
I know what he has done.。
I know what he has made available for me.。
That's why my heart can rejoice.。
There's joy like bubbling up inside of me.。
And so if we look at what David wrote in Psalm 16, he says this.。
David said, "You made known to me the path of life.。
You will fill me with joy in your presence, with eternal pleasures at your right hand."。
David is known to be a worshiper throughout his entire life.。
And he connects the very idea of joy with his experience when he's spending time in。
the loving presence of God.。
There's joy in his presence.。
When David was worshiping God, when he was fixing his eyes on him, recognizing him as。
his protection, as his provider, he said, "You know what?。
Joy will find you.。
You should be filled with joy."。
So you don't have to force yourself to be happy, church.。
Let me say this again.。
Rejoice always is not a command to cheer up.。
It is actually an invitation to worship.。
Come and worship him.。
Recognize he's your savior.。
He's your king.。
He's your creator.。
And open your eyes to see his greatness, his power, his mercy, his love.。
Spend time in that presence and look.。
When you see his greatness, when you see his glory, and you look at your problem again,。
"Oh, yeah, okay.。
His problems are not a big deal.。
It's just a piece of cake for him."。
And joy will start overflowing your heart.。
So then Paul, after saying rejoice always, which is an invitation to worship, sorry,。
I got to drink water.。
Holidays are bad for health.。
I'm still recovering from holiday.。
Sorry.。
Okay.。
So after that, he says, "Pray continually or pray without ceasing."。
Well, does that mean I have to whisper my prayer every waking moment?。
Well, I would say no harm to try.。
You can certainly do that.。
I think it's good for you.。
But if we talk about praying, and praying means talking to God, communicating with God,。
and I look into my life, and I would say my closest experience of talking or communicating。
to someone continually or unceasingly, that would be when I first met Ross, when we first。
started dating.。
She would be the last...。
Okay.。
Don't worry.。
She would be the last person I talked to before I closed my eyes on the bed, and she would。
always be the first person that I messaged once I opened my eyes.。
That's called without ceasing.。
I don't know why.。
I'm at work, but I'll just send her a picture.。
I'm going to have lunch at McDonald's.。
Oh, I'm having lunch at McDonald's.。
Send her a selfie.。
And so although I was in Hong Kong, she was in Singapore, embarrassing her right now.。
We're literally thousands of miles away, but at any moment in the day, I know exactly where。
she is, her location.。
I know the exact location where she is.。
Because we are...。
I think she...。
Is she shaking her head?。
No, I hope not.。
Because we are communicating, we are talking without ceasing with one another.。
I have another group of friends.。
They're my friends from seminary.。
We all stay in the same room.。
They're my roommates.。
I met them 15-ish years ago.。
2009, or something like that.。
More than 15 years ago.。
And until today...。
Well, until today, I meet them like once or twice a year.。
We'll have an annual gathering, doing hot pot together.。
So I see them about once or twice a year.。
But I talk to them every day.。
We have a WhatsApp chat group, or Signal, whatever you use.。
But some chat groups on this kind of media.。
And we talk every day.。
We talk about almost everything.。
We talk about work.。
Yeah, they're my seminary classmates.。
When we talk about work, yeah.。
Just...。
No, no.。
When we talk about work...。
Okay, don't worry.。
No, just generally, like what we're doing, and blah, blah, blah.。
So they know exactly what I've been through in my life.。
I know exactly what they are going through in their life.。
But not just that.。
We talk about everything.。
Oh, Japanese yen is cheap right now.。
Should we go and change some?。
Oh, yeah.。
Manchester United.。
Come on.。
It's horrible.。
Such a bad game last night.。
Oh, yeah.。
You know what?。
This theologian Bonhoeffer, he just, you know, there's a book about him talking about...。
We talk about anything.。
We talk about anything.。
And we talk every single day.。
Like every single day, I receive the messages.。
We talk every day, although I only see them two or one time every year.。
But we talk about everything.。
My point is, there's something I learned about communication in these experiences.。
There is communication, right?。
I just talked about that.。
What matters in communication, I found out, is not just what you say or how you say it.。
It really matters who you're saying it to or who you're talking to as well.。
You probably won't talk to your colleagues or your boss nonstop, unceasing throughout。
the day.。
Even at night, they probably won't be the last person you message before you go to bed.。
Or the first person you message.。
Maybe the first person you message, that's your boss.。
Yeah, I can get it.。
But they're not the ones you want to talk to unceasingly, right?。
Your colleagues, your boss at office.。
Sorry, we're in Hong Kong.。
I may get this totally wrong.。
But you get what I want to say, right?。
You get what I mean, right?。
But if that's your boyfriend, girlfriend, husband, wife, yeah, that's a totally different。
story.。
It's not just what we say or how we say it matters.。
Who we're saying it to, who we're talking to, it matters.。
And so we always say that communication is crucial to relationship.。
But what I want to say is the opposite is also true.。
Your relationship determines your communication.。
Or more precisely, it is your intimacy, your passion in that relationship that drives the。
way you communicate.。
Your desire and willingness to share and the frequency of your communication.。
So how can we pray without ceasing if praying is communication?。
I can tell you, I can only think of one way.。
It's really simple.。
It's when you talk to God, you pray to God as though you're talking to someone you've。
just fallen in love with.。
Or maybe your best buddies, your BFF, someone like that.。
Those people are the ones when something happened in your life, immediately the first person。
you want to share, you want to pick up your phone and you want to text them, "Oh, this。
just happened in my life."。
If you want to pray and cease into God, that's the only way.。
I don't know if there's any other way.。
If you have another way, you can tell me.。
But without that kind of relationship, without that kind of love, that kind of intimacy,。
it always feels like work.。
Yeah, because my boss demand me to send him a message, I wake up.。
So I have to do it.。
No, my boss doesn't do that, by the way, okay?。
Don't get it wrong.。
My boss is very kind.。
But unless we have that kind of relationship with him, this will never make sense to us.。
So when Paul says, "Pray without ceasing," he's actually inviting us into an intimacy。
with God himself.。
Unless God is your lover, unless he's your best friend, you will never talk to him like。
that, like unceasing, like continually.。
That will never happen until he's your lover, until he's your friend, until you enjoy his。
presence, until you enjoy every moment you spend with him.。
So that's what he's instructing us to do.。
He's inviting us into that kind of relationship with Jesus.。
And finally, "Give thanks in all circumstances."。
This is a tricky one, very tricky.。
What it doesn't mean, surely, is that we give thanks for everything.。
I don't think we need to give thanks if one day we find out we have cancer.。
We don't have to give thanks for that.。
If something bad happens to us, we don't have to give thanks for that.。
Paul is actually saying we give thanks in all circumstances.。
But what I suggest we shouldn't do as well is we shouldn't cultivate the practice of。
fake or half-hearted thanksgiving.。
"Oh, there's a traffic jam today and I arrived at work late.。
Oh, but thank you, God.。
At least I'm in one piece.。
I'm safe.。
I arrived at office safely."。
Please don't try to do that.。
If you don't mean it, don't say it.。
That doesn't please God.。
And this is an important thing that I learned throughout the years.。
At the heart of thanksgiving, it's actually a truly thankful heart.。
Let me say that again.。
At the heart of thanksgiving, it's a truly thankful heart.。
It must be heartfelt.。
It must be sincere.。
When it comes to thanksgiving or gratitude, now I want to differentiate a little bit.。
I want to differentiate gratitude between the action and behavior itself and the attitude。
or lifestyle.。
We use these words in both senses.。
It could be just the action itself or the behavior, saying thank you to someone.。
But when you talk about gratitude, it can sometimes mean an attitude, meaning a way。
of life, meaning a lifestyle.。
And so as parents, I've been or we've been teaching our girls to say thank you.。
It's not the hardest thing.。
The hardest thing is always sorry.。
Thank you is less hard to do it.。
Okay, all you parents laugh.。
I know you know.。
But in our effort to teach our girls to say thank you, our goal is never to see them giving。
a robotic expression when they receive a gift or a favor in the future.。
What we're really hoping is that through the practicing of this behavior of saying thank。
you, they would establish a consistent mindset, recognizing and appreciating the positive。
aspects of life.。
Let me say that again.。
I'm not trying to get them to give a very robotic response every time someone do them。
a favor.。
I want them to have this mindset built in inside of them so they would get to appreciate,。
they get to notice the good around them, the good that is done in their life.。
And it's not just a temporary mood.。
It's more like a grateful heart.。
I want them to carry that grateful heart.。
You know, I don't need them to say thank you to me every time I change their diapers or。
pass them a tissue or do something.。
I don't need them to say thank you because I need that.。
I need to feel that.。
I need to feel, oh, somebody is grateful to what I've done.。
Oh, that's, I'm receiving recognition.。
I don't need that, guys.。
I'm grown up.。
I'm better than that.。
But nowadays, when we talk about thanksgiving in the Bible, we always thought, yeah, because。
God is due all these like thanksgiving and praise and, you know, we always look at it。
at that way.。
Of course, again, God is always due all those praise and thanksgiving, but we always, sometimes。
we communicate in a way that because God needs it, that's why I give it to him.。
We communicate that way.。
But I'm telling you, when I change my daughter's diaper, I don't need her to say thank you。
because I need someone to say thank you to me.。
And modern psychologists actually have some very interesting findings.。
Gratitude, it's a big topic in modern psychological research.。
And most psychologists, they would agree that the attitude of gratitude shapes how individual。
interpret events, fostering resilience and optimism.。
Those with a grateful mindset, they tend to focus on what they have rather than what they。
lack, which can lead to greater life satisfaction and emotional stability.。
And what I'm about to read to you is what I found on the National Library of Medicine。
of the United States.。
The effects of gratitude interventions, a systematic review and meta-analysis.。
I'm just going to read a little bit.。
It says gratitude is difficult to define.。
It's been conceptualized as emotion, attitude, blah, blah, blah.。
And let me read this paragraph next.。
Gratitude is a light expression not necessarily conditioned to good times, making it possible。
to maintain the feeling and feel good even during negative experiences or most difficult。
moments.。
Logical relationship has been established between gratitude and well-being, blah, blah,。
blah, blah, blah.。
I just want to read the last bit.。
The results demonstrate that acts of gratitude can be used as a therapeutic complement for。
treating anxiety and depression and can increase positive feelings and emotions in the general。
population.。
You know, there are people out there just by saying thank you to the universe every。
day, their depression gets better.。
Their anxiety gets better.。
They're not even thanking God himself, the creator, the provider, the one who really。
looks after.。
They're just thanking some random energy in the universe and they're like, "Oh, I'm so。
thankful."。
And then they actually get better.。
So I'm suggesting this.。
When God or in the Bible instructs us to say thank you to God or offer a thanksgiving to。
God, we always think, yeah, that's a duty because, you know, that's the praise and thanksgiving。
that God is due.。
But I'm humbly suggesting that when we engage in the act of thanksgiving, the first person。
who benefit from it, it's actually ourselves.。
God didn't just ask you to be thankful so that he can receive your praise and thanksgiving.。
It's for your own good, church.。
Do you see that?。
So when Paul says, you know, give thanks in all circumstances, he's not trying to ask。
you to, oh, you know, find something to be thankful about and, you know, just offer,。
you know, say a prayer.。
No, no, no, no, no.。
He's asking, he's not just talking about the behavior or action of thanksgiving.。
He's talking about the attitude, the lifestyle of gratitude.。
Just now I said gratitude.。
It's not just conditioned to good times, even during negative experiences and most difficult。
moments.。
And this is the context of the church in Thessalonians.。
I talked about this just now, like this church, they're going through persecution, they're。
going through a hard time, and Paul come alongside them.。
Paul actually wrote this.。
He said, I know what you're facing.。
I know it was difficult.。
In 1 Thessalonians 3, he says this, you know, I sent Timothy to strengthen and encourage。
you in your faith so that no one would be unsettled by these trials.。
I know you're going through trials in life, just like every single one of us here.。
I know you guys are going through difficult moments, for you know quite well, Paul says,。
we're destined for them.。
We're destined for trials.。
We're destined for challenges.。
We're destined for difficulties in our lives.。
And so Paul came and gave them an instruction.。
Paul came and gave them a paradigm shift in spiritual discipline.。
Oh, you thought being joyful, it's about making yourself feel good.。
No, no, no, no, no.。
I'm actually inviting you back into worship where you experience the goodness of God.。
You're in his presence like David, and then joy starts to fill you.。
Oh, you think prayer means it's a work.。
No, no, no.。
I'm not asking you to talk to your boss.。
I'm asking you to build this loving relationship with God so that you will be always filled。
with that love that he has for you.。
You are always in this intimate relationship, this kind of communication with him.。
Oh, you think I asked you to give thanks because you know God needs someone to say thanks?。
No, it's for your own benefit, church.。
That is what Paul is trying to communicate with us here.。
If you can go through those darkest moments in your life and you can rejoice always by。
worshiping him, if he's your lover in those moments when you're going through hardship,。
you can continue to talk to him, anything, just talk to him about it.。
If you could remain a thankful, a grateful person in midst of that difficulty, I don't。
know what kind of a person you would be like, but I know a lot of people would be so jealous。
of you.。
And just now when Pastor Tim was reading that message, I saw a glimpse of that.。
I'm grateful that we're a church, we're a family, that when somebody's needs arise,。
we can pray together unceasingly, but I'm also glad that we're a community that we can。
rejoice together.。
We continue to pray and we give thanks together.。
You know, when Paul first wrote that, it's in a second person plural form, in grammar。
means like you all, so it means we rejoice always together.。
We pray unceasingly together.。
We give thanks in all circumstances together.。
I'm glad I'm a part of a community like this with you all and we can do that together.。
And so whenever I ask myself at the end of a year whether I have, you know, did I just。
go through a year, did I grow through a year?。
Can I say, if I'm honest, there are years, some very difficult moments happen, some very。
difficult events happen.。
Actually even right before I came to Yuen Long, there were some moments like that, but。
it was those years, it was those moments when I look back at the end of the year, it's almost。
like I don't have to think, I don't have to ask myself this question, I'm like, yes, I。
have grown through like this year when there was a very difficult moment, when there was。
a challenge, when there was hardship, because number one, I'm destined for trials, but number。
two, when I invest myself back in those spiritual disciplines, or even when I'm not able to。
do that, God is pursuing me, he always meet me in the valley, he always meet me in the。
darkest moments.。
And in my personal, short personal experience on earth, I will confidently say this, there's。
no encounter with God, wait, let me rephrase this, the encounter with God in the valley,。
in the darkest valley, there's nothing you can compare that kind of encounter in your。
life.。
Not moments of encounters on mountaintop, not when you're in somewhere safe, somewhere。
joyful, when you encounter God in the valley of darkness, that kind of encounter, nothing。
can compare to that.。
And Paul is inviting his beloved church into this kind of experience by immersing themselves,。
investing themselves into spiritual discipline.。
So perhaps some of you, like me, here, we all need a paradigm shift in a view on spiritual。
discipline today.。
It's not work, it's not what you need to do, got a list you need to check off, it's an。
invitation.。
Invitation to joy, invitation to intimacy and love with God, intimacy to well-being,。
emotional well-being.。
And I'm gonna invite the worship team back on stage and we're just gonna pray a little。
bit.。
Can I invite us to close our eyes all across the room?。
I had these verses written in my notes.。
I think it could be for some people in this room, so I'm just gonna read it out.。
In Isaiah 30 verse 20, it says this, "Although the Lord gives you the bread of adversity。
and water of affliction, your teachers will be hidden no more.。
With your own eyes, you will see them.。
Whether you turn to the right or to the left, your ears will hear a voice behind you saying,。
'This is the way, walk in it.'"。
I believe God wants to give us a paradigm shift today so that at the end of the year,。
when you ask yourself the same question I ask myself every year, did I just go through。
this year or have I grown through this year?。
I think God wants to do something in your life today so that in December 2025, when。
you ask yourself these questions, you can confidently say, "I have grown through this。
year."。
Yes, I know, growing old is inevitable, but growing up is optional.。
But God is gonna do something in us today that even if it's optional, even if there's。
a price to pay, something in our lives are gonna change today.。
That's what he put on my heart before I came to you today.。
And I said, "Why don't we just invite the Holy Spirit now in your own way, in your own。
language?"。
And a series is called "Boat in Prayer."。
There's one prayer, I've been trying to phrase it properly, but I think some of us, I've。
prayed this prayer when I was about 19 or 20.。
It's powerful, it's dangerous, but if you're bold enough, you may consider praying it.。
When I was about 19 or 20, I once prayed, "God, I want to meet you.。
If I'm in a valley, if I'm in a valley of darkness, I don't want to pray that I could。
get out of this valley.。
I want to pray that I'll meet you right where I am."。
That's perhaps one of the most important paradigms you've got has given me in my life.。
If I'm in a valley, maybe right now, maybe I don't know, wherever you are, but maybe。
in the future, but whenever you're in a valley, don't ask God to just grab you out, ask him。
to meet you right where you are.。
You know, when David wrote this verses in Psalm 23, he says, "Though I walk through。
the valley of shadow of death, I fear no evil, for his staff and his rod comforts me."。
You can only experience this kind of comfort while you're in the valley.。
When you're at a table, sat before your enemy, or when you're at the green pastures, you。
don't experience this kind of comfort.。
I mean, there are blessings in those scenarios as well, but that kind of comfort only comes。
when God draws near you as you are standing right in, right in the middle of the valley.。
So if there's someone in this room today, you know you're going through a valley moment,。
the valley of shadow of death, you're going through a difficult moment, you know you're。
destined for trial, you're feeling it, I invite you to say, "God, I'm going to meet you right。
where I am.。
I'm not going to run away.。
I'm not just going to pray you take."。
Of course you can pray that God takes you away, but more than that, I hope you can pray,。
"God, I want to meet you right where I am."。
So that you can experience real joy, not the fake one.。
So that it's this moment that you're sometimes closest with Him, that our friendship with。
Him grows.。
It's in this moment, true resilience is demonstrated in our lives.。
And it's this moment that God just comes so near you.。
And that will strengthen your faith for the rest of your life.。
Don't run from it.。
Don't just go through it.。
Church, let us grow through it this year.。
So come Holy Spirit, speak to us, or just bring us back to the basics, to take the baby。
steps.。
I pray that throughout this season of fasting, mentality will shift from work to joy, to。
relationship.。
But we also know that it's our discipline, our spiritual disciplines that make room and。
time for these relationships to grow.。
Our relationship with you to grow.。
I pray you would come in, touch us today, in Jesus' name.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
