Please have a seat.。
And we continue the long night of Christmas Eve with the proclamation story.。
The light that was brought into the world, it changed everything.。
It illuminated not only the darkness of the world, but also the darkness in us.。
It saw that the dark despair in all of God's people was now illuminated to God.。
And God heard our wailing cry.。
God's light recognized the struggles, the hurt, the brokenness that we all carry。
and reached out a tender hand of grace towards us.。
The birth of Jesus was a light to the blackest of evil and the darkest of sin.。
It was a new hope to all of us and needed therefore to be proclaimed to all the world.。
And that proclamation happened just like this.。
Luke chapter 2 verse 8 to 20.。
In that region there were shepherds living in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night.。
Then an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified.。
But the angel said to them, "Do not be afraid, for see, I am bringing good news of great joy for all the people.。
To you is born in this day in the city of David a Savior who is the Messiah, the Lord.。
This will be a sign for you. You will find a child wrapped in bands of cloth and lying in a manger."。
And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host,。
praising God and saying, "Glory to God in the highest heaven, and on earth peace among those who may favors."。
When the angels left them and went up to heaven, the shepherds said to one another,。
"Let us now go to Bethlehem and see the thing that has taken place which the Lord has made known to us."。
So they went with haste, and they found Mary and Joseph and a child lying in the manger.。
When they saw this, they made known what had been told them about the child,。
and all who heard it were amazed at what the shepherds told them.。
But Mary treasured all these words and pondered them in her heart.。
The shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen as it had been told them."。
I wonder if you could imagine what it would have been like to be one of the shepherds in the fields that night,。
the very original Christmas Eve.。
Those shepherds were just going about their normal business, their normal day job.。
They were looking after sheep in the fields.。
They did that day in and day out. That's just what they did.。
In fact, they had to do it for months on end before the sheep were ready to be taken to likely the temple in Jerusalem.。
You have to remember Bethlehem is just six miles south of Jerusalem.。
It's likely that the sheep that the shepherds were tending were destined for the sacrifice in the temple itself.。
And so for months they'd been looking after these sheep because these sheep were their livelihood.。
These sheep were the reason why they could provide for their families.。
They looked after them until the time that they could sell them to the temple for the sacrifice that would take place there.。
And then on this long night, suddenly something changes for them.。
Imagine what it would be like for you if you were in your place of work.。
So think about you. If you're a teacher here, think about the classroom.。
If you're a CEO, think about the boardroom.。
If you're a pastor, think about church.。
Whatever it is that you do, think about being in that context, your normal place of work, and then the angels show up.。
They have the audacity to break into your work meeting and go, "I'm here and I'm about to change the world."。
A little bit inconvenient, perhaps.。
The Bible tells us that the shepherds were terrified, so overwhelmed.。
I mean, that seems a normal response to a chorus of angels around you.。
And the angels say this peculiar thing.。
"You don't need to be afraid because in Bethlehem, the town of David, a son has been born to you."。
A light, in other words, has come into the darkness.。
And the angels challenged the shepherds to leave behind their flocks and travel to Bethlehem and visit with the born Messiah.。
Now, that wasn't an easy decision.。
I mean, think about it for a sec from their perspective.。
They had spent months tending these sheep that were essentially their livelihood.。
And they knew day in, day out, they needed to be with them. Otherwise, the sheep had a tendency of wandering off.。
And here's an angel basically saying, "OK, leave behind all your livelihood. Go into Bethlehem."。
And that might take, what, 10 hours, 12 hours, maybe over 24 hours to go there, see the child come back.。
By the time you get back, the sheep are likely gone, your livelihood over.。
If I had been one of the shepherds, I would have got my buddies together and said,。
"OK, we're going to create a union here. Two of us are going to stay with the sheep, whilst the rest of us go into Bethlehem.。
We're going to see if the angels are speaking the truth. If they are, we'll come back and let you know. Got it?"。
But that's not what happened.。
These shepherds decided to get together, and they decided that they would leave their livelihood.。
They would sacrifice what was going to be sacrificed.。
That they were willing to give up all of that and what it represented, the provision that it represented,。
to obediently go and see if the Messiah had truly come.。
And I've often wondered, why did the angels ask the shepherds to do that?。
And I think it's for a simple reason. A reason that is also important for us in our Christmas Eve here in 2022.。
You see, what the angel was trying to describe and try to challenge the shepherds to do was to say this.。
"The Messiah has come. Now everything changes.。
The Messiah has come, and now your life has a new purpose and a new focus.。
Before the Messiah was here, your life was consumed with your livelihood.。
Your life was consumed with the good things of working hard and providing for yourself.。
All those are valuable things, but the Messiah has now come, and you've now been given a new mission.。
And in the future now," the angels are saying, "not only will you have a livelihood, but you'll also have a proclamation.。
Not only will you have something to look after, you'll also now have a story to tell.。
You're now going to be equipped to be the very first people who will take the light of the Messiah into the darkness of the world.。
The livelihood will remain, but there's now a new focus, a new mission."。
The Scriptures tell us that those shepherds go and see the light of Christ, and they return,。
and they share with everybody the amazement in their hearts that actually God had turned up.。
God had put on eyebrows, a saliva gland, and a spleen, and moved into their neighborhood.。
And that was a story worth telling.。
So the proclamation of Jesus, the light of Christ in the world, was not just a significant moment for the shepherds,。
but a significant moment for you and me too.。
Because it was also an invitation for us to not make our own livelihoods the sum total of everything that happens in our lives,。
but also to realize that we are people on a mission.。
To realize that we also have a light to shine in the world.。
To realize that we need to be in the marketplace, we need to be in our places of livelihood,。
but shining forth the hope of Jesus in those places.。
That now we've got a story to tell that desperately is needed to be heard in Hong Kong.。
That we might realize that in our long night, as we wait, not for the original birth of Jesus,。
but for the second coming of Christ to the world, we have a story that makes sense of the darkness that still seems to be around us.。
A story that brings hope and life to those that don't see it.。
Could you imagine what would happen to us if we would take the light of Christ into our city?。
For there is much need today for the light of Christ to be in the darkness of Hong Kong.。
This is all about for us, the arrival of Jesus for all people.。
A light on a hill that cannot anymore be hidden.。
And so we are now challenged to consider for ourselves,。
are we willing to hold that light out courageously and hopefully to those in our city?。
We are here in Hong Kong, our city, our home.。
We are the planting of the Lord for the display of his splendor.。
We refuse to be silent about the wonder of God's light.。
We are here in this city to shine his light.。
For the next generation of Hong Kong, the youth of our city,。
those who carry upon them the hopes of the future and the brilliance of new and fresh hopes and ideas.。
May they know the comfort of the light of Christ.。
For the elderly, the poor, the vulnerable, the homeless, the asylum seeker, the survivor of trafficker,。
the domestic helper away from her family.。
May they know the comfort of the light of Christ.。
For those in the marketplace, the innovators, the business leaders,。
those who work tirelessly, the educators and the creators.。
May they know the rest of the light of Christ.。
For those in their government, leaders of industry, politicians and decision makers,。
those in power and those with authority to rule and direct.。
May they know the wisdom of the light of Christ.。
And for those who are yet to hear the gospel of Jesus,。
those who have a hunger in their hearts for a different kind of life,。
those who are lost, who are soon to be found.。
May they know the salvation of the light of Christ.。
Lord Jesus, hear our prayer.。
For in the long of the nights we accept the gift of Christ Jesus for ourselves,。
a personal act of faith for us, receiving God's charge upon us.。
In the long of the night we are changed forever by our God and Saviour, Lord Jesus Christ,。
who is God with us now and forever.。
For there is great joy at the end of the long of the night before the birth of Jesus.。
With the praise of the angels and the joy of the shepherds,。
the darkness of the world is turned on the axis of God's good light.。
We have much to celebrate and much to be grateful for together.。
So may we stand now together and proclaim for a final time。
the glory that there is in a light that has come and in a light that is coming.。
And as we sing together, may we find that joy rising in our hearts。
as we celebrate the hopeful arrival of Christ Jesus.。
