Yes, so good to have you.。
He has a word that's on his heart.。
We're going to continue in our God of Justice sermon series.。
Now we just have to pray for us, but also pray for him.。
So why don't we do that now?。
You can stretch out your hands towards him and let's pray.。
Jesus, I thank you for Chapman.。
I thank you for the gifts you've laid in him.。
I thank you for how you've called him and anointed him to teach.。
And I ask that you powerfully speak through his teaching, through his preaching today。
to us, that you open our hearts, make us good receivers of what he is sharing and what you。
want to say to us.。
And may this word build up your people, Lord.。
I pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Thank you, Tim.。
Can we put our hands together for Pastor Tim?。
Good morning, everyone.。
Oh, sorry.。
Good afternoon, everyone.。
How are you doing?。
Yeah?。
Full of mooncake in your tummy?。
Yeah.。
You know, there's actually one thing in this modern world that I would say it's everywhere。
in our life.。
And as modern human beings, we're pretty used to it.。
And we may even consider it a necessity in our lives.。
It's everywhere.。
Wherever you go, you will see them around you multiple times every day.。
And you may even feel a little bit anxious if you don't get to see it in a day.。
And you probably can't start your day or can't leave your house before looking at it.。
Anyone knows what I'm talking about?。
What?。
Cell phone?。
I'm actually talking about a mirror.。
Mirrors, right?。
Okay.。
Have a good look of yourself.。
Mirrors, it's one of the most important tools, not just in our daily lives, I believe, but。
also in our early developmental stages as our brains begin to comprehend the idea or。
the concept of self.。
In fact, we actually bought this mirror for Megan when she was still like newborn.。
It's the very, you know, service on which Megan and Mabel first saw their own reflection。
and start to develop this idea of self in their tiny little brains.。
According to cognitive psychologists, like children, actually they only start to recognize。
the mirror images as, you know, themselves, as who they are, as around 18 months.。
So when a newborn face a mirror, look into the mirror, it would thought, oh, this is。
somebody else.。
This is someone else.。
And the psychologists, they actually came up with a test, quite lame the name, it's。
just a mirror test.。
And what's this mirror test about?。
They actually put a mark on the baby's face and let the baby face the mirror.。
If the baby saw the image in the mirror and touch their own face, that means they are。
showing that they recognize the reflection as themselves.。
If they're trying to touch the mirror, means, sorry, they don't recognize that mirror image。
being themselves yet.。
You know, before the invention of selfie cameras about 15 years ago on our smartphones, mirrors,。
it has been one of the primary tool for thousands of years, allowing quick access or internet。
access to our own reflection.。
We look into mirrors every day, often without realizing something very important.。
Like we just come and look, and I remember when I was a teenager, when I was in school,。
you know, boys, we started like gelling our hair around like when we were teenagers, and。
girls would tease us, because every time we walked past a mirror, like, it's an instinct.。
We would just, oh, okay, let me fix my hair.。
And remember my friends, they teased me about that.。
But we look into a mirror every day.。
We look at ourselves, we look at our own image, but sometimes we don't realize something.。
We actually have a relationship with the person who is staring back at us.。
We have a relationship with this person in the mirror.。
We have a relationship with ourselves.。
So some of you may remember my story, if you've been here long enough.。
When I was in kindergarten, I stole money from my dad.。
And he was furious, he was angry, and he lectured me with the story of the boy cry wolf, or。
the moral of the story.。
This is what he told me exactly.。
He said, if you have stolen once in your life, for the rest of your life, people would consider。
you a thief.。
And I remember as a very young kid, I was still in kindergarten, and five or six years。
old back then, as a very young kid, whenever I look into one of these, when I look into。
a mirror, I hated what I saw.。
I saw a bad person, I saw a thief.。
I saw someone whom I felt was ugly.。
Look at this guy, so ugly, I hated him.。
It was only when I grew up, when I was much older, that I realized the experience or the。
feelings, the emotions I feel towards that person inside the mirror, or more precisely,。
the feeling I feel about myself, was actually called shame.。
And shame is slightly different from guilt, and I'm going to explain a little bit about。
that later.。
But interestingly, if we open this book, the Bible, if we turn our pages to Genesis 3,。
if we look at the story, which we know as the story of the fall, we actually see something。
quite similar to my experience.。
And the beginning of chapter 3 of Genesis actually talks about how the serpent came。
and tempted Adam and Eve, telling them, "You know, you should eat that fruit, and blah,。
blah, blah, how good it is."。
And so I'm going to start from Genesis 3, verse 6.。
When the woman saw the fruit of the tree was good for food and pleasing to the eye, and。
also desirable for gaining wisdom, she took some and ate it.。
She also gave some to her husband, who was with her, and he ate it.。
Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they realized they were naked.。
So they sewed fake leaves together and made coverings for themselves.。
That's the story.。
The opening verses of Genesis 3 told us a story of how, you know, wow, they were tempted.。
They were tempted to rebel against God, to rebel against Him by rejecting His authority,。
rejecting His definition of good and evil.。
And when they eat that fruit, it means from now on, they want to be like God.。
They will be the one who make their own judgment about good and evil.。
They are the one who's going to make that decision in their lives.。
And let's look at what happened in verse 7.。
It says, "Then their eyes of both of them were opened, and they realized they were naked."。
Not that they were not before eating that fruit.。
They realized they were naked, so they, you know, put fake leaves together and make coverings。
for themselves.。
If we want to better understand what really happened in that moment when they ate the。
fruit, we need to read this verse side by side with the last verse of Genesis 2.。
So let's read that.。
Genesis 2, verse 25 says this, "Adam and his wife Eve were both naked, and they felt no。
shame."。
So now suddenly they realized they were naked, and they had to cover themselves.。
In other words, shame came into their hearts after sin.。
When they rejected God, the first consequence was they also immediately rejected themselves.。
They rejected their own body.。
They feel ashamed of themselves.。
And shame, like I said just now, is different from guilt.。
Yes, I do experience a bit of guilt when I stole money from my dad, but what runs deeper。
was actually shame.。
Guilt is the awful feeling you feel towards yourself when you've done something wrong,。
but shame, it runs much deeper.。
Shame is the feeling that something is fundamentally wrong or inadequate about yourself.。
It's a feeling that I'm not good enough.。
And that's the exact feeling I grew up with until I was a teenager or until actually I。
was much older.。
When our relationship with God was severed or broken, the first collateral damage, it's。
actually our relationship with ourselves.。
And you may like, "Hold on a second.。
Isn't that the relationship of us with others?"。
Let's look here.。
They only started blaming each other.。
They only started pointing finger at each other much later when God came and spoke to。
them and held them accountable to what they've done.。
In other words, the disruptions of their relationship with others only came later, but the immediate。
effect of their rejection of God was the rejection of themselves.。
Shame immediately flooded into their hearts and they start to say, "I'm not good enough.。
My body is not good enough.。
I must cover it.。
I must not show anyone my body."。
But you may ask, "Why in the world did our relationship with ourselves break down so。
rapidly when our relationship with God is disrupted?"。
So this is what I'm going to unpack with you guys today.。
Is that all right?。
Cool?。
All right.。
So if you remember in the past two weeks, Pasitim, actually he was explaining to us。
how God created Adam and Eve and the rest of us.。
In his original plan, he wanted us to experience shalom, peace, harmony in four different relational。
contexts.。
And I put his slide back on the screen for us.。
Those four relational contexts would be us with God, us with ourselves, us with others,。
and us with creation.。
So originally we should be in this relationship with God.。
And when we're in that relationship, number one, we first experience or we first reflect。
his image.。
We reflect his image as his image bearer.。
We were created in that image.。
It means we would show God's nature in the way we live, which is characterized by love,。
by wisdom, by holiness, justice, and creativity, and so on.。
And we also get to enjoy his provision.。
You see, God is a provider.。
He made a beautiful garden of Eden.。
And when he was done, he put Adam and Eve in a garden.。
And he told them, "You can eat from any trees here, any tree.。
If you see any fruits, feel free, be my guest and eat it, except that one.。
Don't eat from that one.。
Don't eat from that one, okay?"。
But they still experienced God's very abundant provision.。
They have everything they've ever needed or wanted.。
And thirdly, we have a God-given purpose when we're in a relationship with God.。
We were supposed to rule over creation.。
This purpose wasn't about selfish domination, but it's about stewardship.。
It's about care.。
It's about partnership with God in governing creation.。
So here, God's image, his provision, and his purpose, together, they gave Adam and Eve。
identity and security.。
But when they rejected God and severed their relationship with God, they were driven out。
of the garden, and they were driven out of the very presence of God.。
They were cut off from that source of their identity and security.。
As they rejected God's authority and sought autonomy, trying to rule over themselves instead。
of ruling over creation according to God's standard of good and evil, their identity。
of their understanding of who they are, or in other words, their self-image, it's no。
longer rooted in who God is and in God's image.。
And so we see in Genesis 3, verse 7, that's the consequence of their rejection of God.。
When our self-image is no longer anchored in the image of God, we're left with shame,。
self-rejection, and insecurity.。
And in the world around us, we would often see how people try to build their own identity。
or self-image without God, without being in a relationship with him.。
Some of the common things that people build their self-image on are achievements, to begin。
with, appearance, power, some of the things maybe you're familiar, maybe you see that。
around you.。
If you're an adult, we often see how people try to build their identity on their career,。
right?。
Achievements would mean your career, your position or your ranking, your income, your。
bank account.。
People who don't build their security in God, they don't have God's provision, they have。
to provide for themselves.。
And what they do is they save up more and more and more and more and more for themselves,。
and their identity, their image, it's self-image is built on the bank account and the resources。
in their possession.。
Or maybe if you're a student in this house, achievements could mean your grades, the school。
you go to, all those different awards or certificates, grade A piano or other things that, you know,。
whatsoever that you receive as some sort of a proof, and you get the idea.。
The idea behind is always the same.。
When we talk about achievements, we're talking about we are what we do, we are what we have,。
we are what we know.。
And perhaps some people, they build their self-image or self-esteem upon their appearance.。
You have to look a certain way, you need to have a certain body size, or you have to have。
a certain body shape to meet the standard of beauty in our world.。
And the world around us is actively redefining what is good, what is beautiful, what is successful,。
what is acceptable.。
And when our identity and our self-image is not anchored in God's image and our relationship。
with Him, we would often find ourselves in a place where we feel we're not good enough.。
Like I'm not strong, I'm not muscular, you know, enough.。
I'm not like Ivan, I'm not as strong as him, I'm not as good looking as him, I'm not as。
successful as Pastor Tim, I don't have the degrees that he have, and I'm nobody, I don't。
earn as much money as my peers.。
And we often compare ourselves and we feel we're shameful of ourselves, we're not good。
enough.。
When our relationship, when our self-image is not anchored in our relationship with God,。
that's how we always feel about ourselves.。
And we will find ourselves in a place where we're just always crying out and say, "Oh,。
I wish I'm like someone else.。
I wish I have that.。
I wish I know that.。
I wish I could have achieved that."。
You know, there's shame and that's the shame and insecurity inside of us talking to us.。
And that voice, sometimes it could be so loud in our heads, it could be so overwhelming。
in our heads that we would fall into anxiety.。
Do you know that there is a new buzzword in this generation, Gen Z, it's called BDD or。
it's called Body Dysmorphic Disorder.。
There's an equivalent term in Cantonese, in Chinese as well.。
It basically reverts to the mental health condition where a person is spending too much。
time worrying about the flaws in their appearance.。
Do you know that there are students right now, even after COVID, they never take off。
their mask when they're in school, when they're in social gatherings, simply because they're。
not confident about their appearance.。
There are people, they think, "This is not good enough.。
I shouldn't show people."。
Like Adam and Eve, they decided to hide it behind a mask or something.。
Do you know that this world around us, businesses around us, they're trying to profit on our。
own insecurity about our self-image, about who we are or how we look.。
Let me give you an example.。
I used to have a gym membership.。
Hard to believe.。
Yes, I actually do have a gym membership a while ago.。
But I remember when I used to go to the gym and when I start working out, some sort of。
a trainer would walk up to me and say, "Hey, you're doing this wrong.。
Your posture is not right.。
You're going to get hurt.。
You're not going to lose weight.。
You're not going to get your muscles built.。
This is wrong."。
And then later they will ask me, "So why are you here?。
What do you want to achieve?"。
And I'm like, "What else?。
Why else would I be here?。
Everybody comes to the gym, wants to be healthy, right?。
Am I going to tell him, 'Oh, I want to be sick and I want to look weak when I'm old,。
so that's why I come to gym?'"。
You don't say that, right?。
Everybody wants to be healthy, but then that's what they will tell you.。
"Oh, healthy, it's very fake.。
It's not a concrete idea.。
What do you mean by being healthy?。
Do you want to grow muscles?。
Do you want to lose weight?。
Do you want to do that or that or that or that?"。
Only later did I understand these are actually gaslighting tactics, you know?。
They're just questioning everything I say, and then they will pull me to the side and。
ask me to do this test.。
They have certain machines, and I'll stand on that machine measuring my body weight,。
my body, what body fat or, you know, something, BMI, whatever.。
And by the time the test result come out, they would have told me 10 or 20 things about。
my body, about my posture, about me that is wrong, that's not good enough.。
Of course, they're going to end, they're going to bring that home with a sales pitch.。
"Hey, so Mr. Fu, now you have to sign up with this package.。
And if you come, how many times per week if you commit to that exercise?。
If you commit to letting me show you how to do it, and I guarantee within certain months。
you'll reach your target, your goal."。
And I even remember these trainer or sales, I don't know what they really are, telling。
me, "Oh, you know what?。
My clients normally, on average, they give me like 15K, 20K per month to reach the targets."。
And I'm like, "Really?"。
You know, there are people try to earn money, try to make a profit out of our insecurity。
about our self-image.。
You know that.。
First of all, I'm not against gym membership.。
I'm not against bodybuilding.。
I'm not against working out.。
I just want to call out an injustice around us, that people are making profit out of our。
insecurity of our self-image.。
And I just want to call that out.。
You know, as I mentioned before, 15 years ago, the only tool that you can use to see。
the reflection of yourself, to see your physical self-image was mirrors.。
But 15 years ago, Apple came out with a brilliant product.。
Now everybody has one in your pocket.。
And what you do with it, it's you use a selfie camera.。
You don't just take a picture of yourself.。
You don't just post a picture of yourself.。
You can actually edit that image.。
You can actually touch up that image.。
You put tons of filter, Photoshop, make your nose or chin smaller, eyes bigger, you know,。
slimmer, taller, before you put that image on social media.。
Every single time you interact with that device, every single time you try to do that, you。
are trained, your brain is told that who you are, how you look, your raw and candid image,。
it's not good enough.。
It's not good enough for internet.。
It's not good enough for your friends.。
It's not good enough for the world.。
You must edit it.。
You must change something about yourselves before you can show the rest of the world。
who you are.。
We're trained to do that.。
We're discipled to do that.。
Can you believe it?。
We're told every single day when we interact with this device that we are not good enough.。
How we look, our appearance, it's not good enough.。
You got to do something about it.。
OMG.。
Imagine we have a whole generation growing up like that and we growing up like that.。
When a self image isn't anchored in God's image and his relationship or his view of。
us, shame takes the driver's seat and leaving us vulnerable to manipulation and exploitation.。
That's what the world around us is trying to do that.。
We aren't always just the victims, aren't we?。
Friends, if we're honest with ourselves, especially as we seek to gain power and control over。
ourselves, over situations we're in and over others, sometimes we put labels on people。
around us.。
We call them names.。
We diminish them and we don't see them or treat them like as the image of God.。
We do that ourselves as well.。
I do that myself.。
And I just want to say that, you know, we talked about how shame and insecurity came。
into the picture as we reject God and detach a self image from his image.。
But at the same time, we need to know this.。
The act of rebellion also shifted our focus away from God's will and place our own desires。
at the center of our lives.。
Before the fall, Adam and Eve, they enjoy harmony with God, with themselves, with each。
other, with creation, and their desires were rightly ordered.。
Their desires used to align with God's will.。
They seek the glory of God naturally.。
They seek the good of others in what they do.。
However, after sin entered the world, the immediate effect was that humanity began to。
live for themselves rather than for God.。
This introduced self-centeredness into our lives.。
As we now prioritize our own desires, our own opinions, our own needs over God's authority。
and over the well-being of others around us, now the natural inclination of humanity become。
twisted to us selfishness.。
And that's what sin did to us as well.。
And self-centeredness or selfishness is the root of all the wickedness and injustice that。
we see in our world.。
Let me say that again.。
This self-centeredness, us prioritizing our own desires, our own opinion, our own needs。
over other people, over God's authority, this self-centeredness or selfishness is the root。
to all wickedness and injustice that we see in our world.。
As Pastor Tim explained to us two weeks ago, the wicked are those who will to disadvantage。
the community for the advantage of themselves.。
They are willing to sacrifice other people for their own good.。
Why do you think women are being sold into sex trade or trafficked?。
Because there are certain people, mostly men.。
They prioritize their own sexual desires and needs and wants over the well-being of those。
ladies.。
And that doesn't just happen in brothels, come on.。
It happens in our office.。
When someone prioritize their own desires, their own gain, their own control over other。
people, over their colleagues in the office.。
And we just call them horrible bosses.。
But that also happens in the houses of our city.。
Look at the divorce rate.。
Look at the cases, number of cases of domestic violence in our city.。
It happens in a household.。
It happens perhaps in our own family.。
And if we are honest with ourselves, if we dare to examine our own lives, we know we're。
not immune.。
Most of us in this room, we're not immune to shame and insecurity, but also we're not。
immune to self-centeredness and selfishness.。
And that's reality.。
But this is where Jesus comes into our story.。
Jesus, he's fully God, and he's also fully man.。
When he entered this world, he experienced the same vulnerabilities, temptations, and。
struggles as we do.。
Just as Adam and Eve were tempted by the serpent in the garden, Jesus was tempted by Satan。
in the wilderness at the beginning of his ministry.。
What's striking in both cases or the core of every temptation is the same.。
It is that the devil always tries to sow doubt into the relationship between us and God,。
to undermine our trust in his goodness and plan.。
Satan always tries to separate us from God by sowing doubt into that relation, by sowing。
unbelief into that relationship.。
Satan always tries to offer us an alternative to trusting God and obeying God.。
He will say, "Hey, here's a better option, pal.。
You know, yeah, of course, you can do it God's way.。
You can, you know, let a yes be yes, let a no be no.。
You can go to your boss in his office and tell him what you've done wrong.。
Yeah, that's God's way.。
You can do it.。
Hey, but I'm telling you, there's another way out.。
You can just, you know, sweep it under the rug as though nothing happened.。
He'll never find out.。
Nobody will find out.。
And maybe you would even get a bonus at the end of the year.。
Come on.。
Are you dumb?。
This is the better way, right?。
The alternative is the better way.。
Satan always comes and sows doubt inside of our heads.。
It's always God's way versus our way.。
And he will always try to convince you that our way will be better.。
Come on, let's do this.。
And this is his tactics.。
And this is what he's trying to do in our hearts.。
Come on, let's do it your way.。
Don't do it God's way.。
If you think about the parallels between these two moments of temptations of Jesus's temptation。
in the wilderness and Adam and Eve's in the garden, you can see that Adam and Eve, they。
were actually in a beautiful garden.。
They were surrounded by abundance.。
They get everything they want.。
And yet they gave in to the serpent's deception.。
They questioned God's goodness while they're living right in the middle of his goodness.。
They questioned God's goodness.。
They doubted his word and sought autonomy apart from God.。
And they gave into the temptation by prioritizing their own desires over God's will and his。
word.。
And on the other hand, Jesus, he was in the barren wilderness.。
He was physically weak after 40 days of fasting.。
And he was facing temptation.。
So that temptation, it's about doubt whether God would remain, you know, God would provide。
for him.。
And the temptation that he could misuse his own power to take a shortcut to the glory。
that he wants to take.。
And yet in each scenario, in all instances, Jesus remained obedient to God.。
In other words, he overcame the temptation by prioritizing God's will and God's glory。
over his own desires.。
Isn't that what he prayed before he went to the cross?。
"Father, please take away this cup, but not my will be done, your will be done."。
He prioritized God's heart, God's will, God's glory above his own desires and his own needs.。
And that's what he did.。
He securely anchors his own identity in his relationship with his father.。
That's how he did it.。
He did it as God's son, fully man, but also fully the son of God.。
Do you remember in the Galatians series, a couple weeks, months ago, we talked about。
when Jesus redeemed us, he gave us sonship so that we are now sons and daughters of God.。
And God sent his spirit of his son into our hearts so that we could call him Abba, Father.。
That he restored that intimate relationship between us and him.。
When our relationship with him is restored, it means that our source of identity, our。
source of security is also restored.。
We can anchor our identity and our self-image in this bonding we have with him once again.。
Meaning that yes, maybe before you come here today, before you know Jesus, your identity,。
your self-image is anchored or built upon your achievements or maybe your appearance。
or maybe the power you have.。
But today when your relationship with Father God is restored, now you can shift that self-image,。
your anchor of your identity back into your relationship with him, back into his image.。
So because I'm created by God and I'm redeemed by him, now I know for sure that I'm his son,。
that I'm good despite every wrong I've done in my life, that I'm fearfully and wonderfully。
made, that I'm his craftsmanship.。
Therefore I'm not useless.。
And I know I'm beautiful, I'm precious, I'm significant, and I have a glorious purpose。
in my life.。
And I know that he would look after me and he provides for my every need.。
When my self-image, it's anchored once again in God's image, I know all these for sure。
and I have certainty in my heart.。
I no longer experience that insecurity, but now I have security inside of me.。
And that's wonderful, right?。
But let me tell you, church, Jesus did more than that.。
And let me read to you how Paul described him in Philippians chapter 2.。
Philippians chapter 2, starting verse 3, he says this, "Do nothing out of selfish ambition。
or vain conceit.。
Rather in humility value others above yourself, not looking to your own interests but each。
of you to the interests of others.。
In your relationship with one another, have the same mindset as Christ Jesus, who being。
in very nature God, did not consider equality with God something to be used in his own advantage.。
Rather he made himself nothing by taking the very nature of a servant, being made in human。
likeness and being found in appearances as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient。
to death, even death on a cross."。
Jesus didn't come to die, didn't just come to die so that our sins can be forgiven.。
Yes, that's part of the deal, that's amazing, hallelujah.。
But he also came to suffer and die on the cross for us, to show us that it's humanly。
possible to prioritize God's glory and the wellbeing of others over ourselves.。
Jesus, he's not self-centered, he's other-centered.。
And Paul said, "Have the same mindset as Christ Jesus, the other-centered mindset."。
Just now we talk about what wickedness mean.。
The wicked are those who will disadvantage the community or others for the advantage。
of themselves.。
Jesus showed us the opposite, he showed us what righteousness, what justice is actually。
like.。
The righteous are those who will to disadvantage themselves for the advantage of their community,。
of those around them, of the neighbors.。
You see, it's possible, Jesus made a way, he show us that justice on earth in this life,。
it's possible by the blood of Jesus, through the power of the Holy Spirit.。
Perhaps you still see insecurity and shame and even self-centeredness and selfishness。
in yourself.。
And if I'm honest with you, I see that in myself as well.。
I see that, I see how sin has affected me, maybe you share that same feeling today, but。
let me read you one more passage from the New Testament.。
In the Hebrews chapter four it says this, "Therefore, since we have a great high priest。
who has ascended into heaven, Jesus, the son of God, let us hold firmly to the faith we。
profess.。
For we do not have a high priest who is unable to empathize with our weakness, but we have。
one who has been tempted in every way, just as we are, yet he did not sin."。
So let us then approach God's throne of grace with confidence, without fear, so that we。
may receive mercy and find grace to help us in a time of need.。
Jesus, he's able to empathize with our weaknesses.。
He understands the shame you're carrying, he understands the insecurity, he understands。
why you need to anchor your identity on your achievements, on your appearance, on your。
power.。
He understand all that.。
He even understand the self-centeredness, the selfishness that is going on inside of。
you that is taking a hold of your life, but he could empathize with that weakness and。
he restores us back to the father.。
So that in exchange of that insecurity and shame, now we can approach God with confidence,。
without fear instead.。
Jesus says, "I'm the way, I'm the truth, I'm the life.。
Through me, you have access to the father, no fear at all."。
And the father's throne, it's actually a throne of grace.。
You don't deserve it, I don't deserve it, but Jesus made that grace, made that mercy。
available for all of us before we could bring him any merits.。
Because I'm created by God and I'm his son, I know I'm good and I know we could receive。
that.。
We have the Holy Spirit inside of us.。
Every resource we need to live the life like Jesus, it's already inside of us, freely available。
to us right now.。
God has reconciled us back to him.。
Our relationship with him is restored.。
We can live as God's image bearer once again.。
Our self-image can be anchored in his image again.。
We're his sons and daughters, we can feel secure inside of him.。
About 10 years ago, well, I should say that throughout my life in the last 20 years, one。
of the ministries I involved in, it's translation.。
I would go to Christian conferences and translate for pastors.。
I've done that for our pastors here as well.。
That's what I do in the city.。
About 10 years ago, I was introduced to a music ministry, but they're not an English。
music ministry, they're actually a Mandarin music ministry.。
They asked me to go and translate at their event, which I've never done before.。
And I remember the first day I arrived at that conference, at that event, there are。
other Christians in the city who might know, my friends, they welcomed me, they cheered。
for me, they said, "Wow, Chapman is here, the best translator, whatever, it's here."。
And I remember going there for the first time, I haven't even done this in my life before.。
I was so nervous, what if I screw up, what if I don't even understand one word coming。
out of that speaker's mouth, and I just stood there and I froze, what if that happened?。
So all these scenarios were running inside of my head, I was like shaking, and I'm like,。
I don't know if I could live up to that reputation, which I didn't even know I had won.。
And during rehearsal, I just stood at a backstage and I was just praying in the spirit, I'm。
like, "Holy Spirit, you must do something, I don't wanna be, I don't wanna be very ugly。
in front of everyone, like help me."。
And remember the Holy Spirit just taught me to pray like this, says, "Chapman, just pray。
this after me," he says, "in Jesus' name I declare, I come here, later I'll walk on that。
stage as the Son of God, that's it, no more, no less, that's it, I'm just the Son of God,。
period."。
For the last 10 years, every single time before I walk on a stage, before I speak, before。
I do anything, that's the prayer I pray.。
I remember when I pray that prayer, all the anxiety, that nerve, it's gone.。
When I anchored my identity, my self-image in my relationship with my Father, in His。
image, instead of my achievements, instead of my abilities, instead of my appearance,。
whatever, I found that security that I would call my birthright once again.。
Do you know that security?。
Do you know that love?。
It's actually our birthright.。
Father God is calling us back to Him through Jesus by the power of the Holy Spirit.。
It's possible.。
You can anchor your identity in Him.。
It's totally possible.。
And by the power of His Spirit, as we surrender to Him more and more every day, we will be。
capable, as His sons and daughters, we will be capable to seek His glory and the well-being。
of others over ourselves.。
We can do this so naturally, like it's a second nature.。
It's like breathing.。
And we will be capable to be other-centered.。
We will be able to disadvantage ourselves for the advantage of those around us.。
And it will feel like an instinct, and it may even feel like joy to us.。
Justice, it begins when the flourishing of others become our heart's desire.。
When there is a community called the church who are other-centered and with their self-image。
anchored in the image of God, when you have such a community in your neighborhood, people,。
they would start to experience what we call the restorative justice of God.。
When you allow the Holy Spirit to do that, when you anchor yourselves in His image, that's。
God's heart for the Vine Yuen Long.。
That's God's heart for His church.。
That's God's heart for our neighborhood.。
And that's His heart for Hong Kong.。
It's possible.。
Jesus made it possible for you and me.。
Today, if you say, "I want to once again anchor my identity in Jesus, in God's image again,"。
Church, I invite you to stand and pray with me.。
God, you know the insecurities in our hearts.。
You know the shame that we experience.。
You know where and when we told ourselves that we're not good enough.。
We're not good enough for you.。
We're not good enough for our family.。
We're not good enough for ourselves.。
We're not good enough for our office, so on, so on.。
But God, you know.。
Jesus, you can empathize with our weaknesses today.。
And you know how we have used to build our identity on perhaps our achievements or appearance。
or power and all that.。
But God, today you restore us back to you.。
God, we just want to come before you.。
And we want to pray that in Jesus' name.。
We want to repent from our past.。
We want to turn away from building our identity in anything outside of you.。
In Jesus' name today, we want to come before you, Lord.。
And we declare once again, Father, my self-image, my identity, it's built upon our relationship.。
I want to anchor my image in your image today.。
So come, Holy Spirit.。
Father, send the spirit of your son into my heart today.。
So that I could have a sense of security.。
I could just call out right here, right now, Abba, Father, I enjoy you.。
I long for you.。
Come and fill me up.。
I want to be in your presence.。
Come, Holy Spirit.。
I want to prioritize your glory, your heart, the well-being of those around me over myself.。
That justice flows through me.。
We give ourselves to you, Lord.。
Today once again, we come before you, Lord.。
I know some of us here, we are so used to finding our identity and our image in what。
we can do, in what we have, in the figures in a bank account, in the title we've earned,。
in the gifts and talents that brought us a lot of recognition in our lives.。
Today Jesus is offering us something better.。
Let's respond to him.。
Amen.。
[MUSIC]。
