When Jesus was on the mountain during the moment of transfiguration, Peter said, "Oh,。
it's so good for us to be here.。
I'm enjoying the presence of God.。
I'm seeing miracles.。
I'm seeing great things happening."。
But actually, God, that moment you were talking about suffering, you were talking about your。
mission on earth, that is to give your life.。
God, I pray that, yes, as we're singing, how good you are, how good you are to us.。
Your presence is so beautiful and your kindness to us is just so great.。
Father, I pray that we will be reminded that there's a mission for your church in this。
city.。
Yes, it's great to be here, to sing that you're good to me.。
But God, I pray that we will be reminded that we exist as a church in the city, like what。
John reminded us last week, a sword and light, to tell the city that, actually, you know。
what?。
God is not just so good to me.。
He's so good to those people around us, especially those who don't know him yet.。
And we're here to tell them that God is so good to them as well.。
And so God, on the Vision Sunday, as we talk about your heart for this church, God, I thank。
you.。
I stand here humbly, thank you that you are so good to us, so good to each and every one。
of us.。
But God, I pray that this kind of gratitude is going to move us into a place where we。
would say, I want those around us, those in Yuen Long, those in my workplace, in my school,。
in my family.。
I want them to know how good is God as well.。
So Holy Spirit, I pray you would fall on us today.。
You would come and speak to us, that in this gratitude of your kindness, of your goodness,。
may we be moved out of these four walls and share that goodness, that kindness to the。
city.。
Thank you, God.。
I just pray that you would fill us with your Holy Spirit.。
You will come and anoint our ears to listen what you're going to say to us next.。
Open our eyes to see the vision that you are giving to this church.。
I thank you, Jesus.。
I thank you for choosing us.。
I thank you for gathering us under this roof today.。
In your name we pray, everybody say, amen.。
Thank you.。
Thank you, worship team.。
Please be seated, everyone.。
So good to have you all here.。
Like I've mentioned, like perhaps a thousand times in the last half an hour, today is Vision。
Sunday.。
This is something we do once a year and we're so excited.。
We're so grateful you're all here because this vision is not just for Pastor Tim or。
Pastor Ivan or the staff of the church.。
This is a vision that God wants to give each and everyone who call this their community,。
their spiritual home.。
And we're very excited.。
And of course, like we love to have our children with us during worship.。
Here before we release them today, I want to bring you a little bit of updates.。
Next week when we come back, we're going to do things slightly differently.。
We're going to close our Seeking the Peace of the City series.。
And so we just do things a little bit differently.。
I don't want to, you know, I don't want to be a spoiler, but I want to let you know that。
something is different.。
So this is what we're going to do.。
Next week when we come back, our children, actually they will go to K4C at the beginning。
of the service, meaning that we will worship here without our kids.。
They will worship at K4C.。
They'll do their whole thing from the very beginning of the service.。
So parents, this is particularly for you guys, when you bring them in, register them, hang。
out.。
But before the service begins next week, please send them to all the K4C classrooms.。
Is that okay?。
Awesome.。
So we can pray for them and we can release them.。
They're going to have a great time today.。
And our K4C teachers can't wait.。
They're so ready there.。
So let's pray for them and their children.。
Father, we just lift up every single child in this room.。
God, we know that you love them so much, that you have so much you want to pour into their。
spirit.。
And so Father, I just pray that today they will see you as we're talking about vision.。
Father, I pray that you will give them a vision since young age as well, that they will see。
you, that they will sense a calling from you, that they would know they are here to follow。
you for the rest of their lives.。
And Father, we pray for your anointing in each of our K4C teachers.。
Use them to communicate your message today.。
I pray that every single one in those rooms will encounter you.。
In Jesus' name I pray.。
Amen.。
All right, parents, thank you.。
Please, you may send your kids to the classrooms right now for K4C.。
And for those of you who are here, welcome once again.。
And you may turn to one another.。
If you could introduce yourself and tell them a little bit about yourselves or just say。
hello, get to know them, that would be awesome.。
All right, well, I'll be back in a moment.。
Right, forgot to mention.。
If you are here for the very first time, can I just say hi to you wherever you are?。
Could you say, is there anyone you're here for the very first time?。
Yes.。
Hello.。
Welcome.。
So great to have you here.。
Have I introduced myself?。
I probably have not, right?。
My name is Chapman, by the way.。
I'm one of the pastors here.。
So glad you're here with us.。
And if you would love to stay in touch with us in any way or you want to receive new updates。
about our church, there's a very simple way.。
I know everybody use WhatsApp here.。
I assume.。
Maybe not, but if you don't, this is a good time to get WhatsApp right now.。
So you can scan this QR code.。
If you're an Android user, you have to open WhatsApp to scan it.。
We regularly send out updates about our church through our WhatsApp channel.。
And don't worry, now WhatsApp, they have this kind of technology.。
Even if you join this group, other people can't see your phone number.。
So we respect your privacy.。
They won't find out your number from this group chat, but you will also be able to get。
updates from us.。
Cool.。
All right.。
All right.。
Now, before I move on, I would love to invite Pastor Tim to the stage.。
He has some updates for us today.。
Yeah, I wanted to share a little bit personal updates.。
So last week it was announced that I wasn't feeling good.。
And so we were actually planning on having Ellie's baby dedication, but then we had to。
postpone that.。
And so what happened was I actually had so much pain sitting, standing or laying, doesn't。
matter what position, that I told Chris, I need to go to the emergency room.。
And so then I was hospitalized, had a surgery and am recovering now and glad to, didn't。
want to leave Ivan on his own here today.。
I'm glad to be here, but I'm still in the recovering process.。
And I also want to say thank you for every one of you, you know, for praying.。
Some of you knew, some of you didn't know.。
But yeah, just wanted to take this moment and say thank you.。
Also I'm going to be, well, on sick leave, but then also gone for a while visiting family.。
But we have incredible pastors coming and sharing next week.。
We have Pastor Chapman, you already heard, there's going to be something creative.。
Then we have, I don't remember the order, Justin Ho, he serviced that last week.。
So also just a wonderful pastoral pastor who will be sharing.。
And then we have Alison Tsang.。
And so if you don't know Alison, he's always up for a good joke.。
And so he will also be sharing a message that actually will be streamed even to one try。
as well, because they're having renovations.。
So anyhow, so I wanted to be here today and it's good to see you all again.。
Thanks for the prayers and back to you.。
We put hands together for Pastor Tim, still in recovery, but he came back to be with us。
today.。
It's awesome.。
And he's going to have a holiday.。
Wow.。
Holiday.。
Oh, I miss holiday.。
Anyway, so some quick announcements.。
Number one, we have this Cantonese parenting workshop happening this Saturday.。
If you have some friends around you, they speak Cantonese, they're parents, this is。
a very good opportunity for them.。
I know a lot of kids are under tremendous stress in OCD right now.。
How parents could support them, this is one of the very good resources for them.。
So if they speak Cantonese, they could use this, just scan the QL code, send the link。
to them.。
There will be four parenting workshops throughout the whole year.。
There will be English ones, so stay tuned as well.。
And then the next one, next announcements, it's on next Sunday, we're going to have a。
first baptism class.。
So there'll be two.。
You have to complete two to get baptized.。
But the first one starts next week.。
Of course, if you want to sign up, there's a link.。
And if you just decided on next Sunday, you want to come and join, of course, that's okay.。
But we would still encourage you to sign up, you know what I mean?。
Because we have to prepare, right?。
And so two baptism classes, and then baptism day, it's on Easter Sunday, and on this month,。
the 31st.。
So please sign up if you want, if you're inviting anyone, encourage them to sign up.。
And so just to guarantee, okay, so even if you go through baptism class, you don't have。
to decide, "Okay, I'm not sure whether I want to get baptized like this Easter."。
That's okay.。
You can come and just find out what it is about.。
And we're going to explain to you who Jesus is.。
No, okay.。
Anyway, we're just going to explain to you what Christian faith is about and what baptism。
means.。
And that's basically, that's it.。
So even if you cannot decide whether you want to get baptized this coming baptism, you can。
still join, and we're very happy to have you.。
Cool, right?。
Awesome.。
So that's all the announcements for this week.。
And we're doing things a little bit different.。
It's a special Sunday.。
So instead of moving into another round of worship through offering, I'm actually going。
to invite Pastor Tim and Pastor Ivan on the stage today.。
On this very special Vision Sunday, the two of them will be delivering the message to。
you together.。
Well, maybe not together, like maybe one by one, but anyway, both of them are going to。
speak.。
So can I invite you to stretch out your hands and we'll pray for our pastors.。
God, we thank you for Pastor Tim and Pastor Ivan for putting all the effort into this。
church since the very beginning.。
And God, today it is them together with Pastor Andrew, they're hearing from you what you。
have in store for this church and also for the Vine as a whole.。
And they're going to release this word.。
So God, I just pray that you would anoint them, Lord.。
You anoint this message that they are about to bring.。
And also, Father, I pray you anoint us, our hearts, our ears, that as we receive this。
message, we would respond to it.。
We would walk in this vision that you have for us as a church.。
So in Jesus' name we pray.。
Amen.。
Thank you.。
Thank you, Pastor Chapman.。
I'm always amazed to see every Sunday we gather together with our familiar faces and also。
sometimes with new faces.。
I see how God's worked on us in the past few years and also today.。
In 2019, Pastor Andrew shared with us, with Divine Wan Chai at that time, the river model。
vision that God gave us as a church.。
It's a vision of a vast river network spanning across a large geographical area.。
We can see a photo, which is taken by Pastor Tim, I think, at that time.。
We can see that there are, actually you can see this is a Hong Kong map, but full of the。
river across Hong Kong.。
Through this picture, God spoke a key message to us.。
The vine need to shift its metaphor of how it's through like an idea of house or a building。
static on one location, in one location, but this is a river that flows all over Hong Kong.。
We are not just a building, but it's about a river through over Hong Kong.。
This vision was a decentralizing vision.。
Instead of focus on growing the vine in one location, God gave us a vision as a church,。
like a river reaching out across whole city, watering the land with gospel.。
In this vision, there was one ocean and also primary river, secondary river, and triple。
trees.。
The river was flowing the opposite direction of how the river normally flow.。
You know the river flows from the mountain to the ocean, but what we see is this from。
ocean back to the land.。
The ocean was the Father and Son and the Holy Spirit feeding the river with water.。
Yes, you can see that.。
That is what our vision.。
The primary river is a main river, divine church, as a resource's hope.。
Also, the secondary river is church pond like us, church pond like us.。
The triple trees is mission, home churches, and also marketplace, community groups.。
The river model vision is still part of our vision as a church.。
Our church pond is part of the working, the working out of that river model vision.。
On Mission Sunday 2022, we announced that we are planting a church with English and。
also Cantonese service.。
It was during a time when people were moving away from Hong Kong because of COVID restriction,。
because of the changing political landscape, because of job relocation, and for other reasons.。
During that time, some companies even shifted their regional headquarters out from Hong。
Kong to Singapore or to other cities in Asia.。
We feel that by announcing that we are planting a church, that is a prophetic act.。
That's a prophetic act to show that we are saying that God is not finished with Hong。
Kong.。
While others were pulling out their investment in Hong Kong, we were doubling down.。
We are double investing in this place.。
God has plan, has purpose, has future in Hong Kong for Hong Kong, and he's calling us to。
invest in it.。
Through our 2022 and '23 Mission Sunday, we were able to raise our first year operating。
expenses, and the cost of here, the veneration, and also the outfitting of this venue.。
We launched our church in 2023.。
It was in EIS in the beginning of year, and then we moved here in September, and we have。
the grand opening in October 2023.。
Our first year is so amazing that we can see that God has been giving us an incredible。
future, his provision, his faithfulness, and grow us, and now we stand here a year later。
on this Mission Sunday 2024.。
Mission Sunday usually have been a chance to unpack what we as a leadership of God,。
the sense that God telling us divine, how does it really look like?。
But in other words, we have been looking at what's God's vision for us, and how we do。
this to impact Hong Kong.。
It's more about us and impacting Hong Kong.。
But this year, we sense that God is asking us to flip this around.。
The question we should ask is, what is on God's heart for Hong Kong?。
What is God's heart for Hong Kong?。
And then we ask the other question, so now, how does a church in Yuen Long, divine Yuen。
Long, need to respond?。
God leading us to see what is happening in Hong Kong and what is his heart, and then。
telling us how can we respond to his vision.。
So now I would like to invite Pastor Tim, past time to him, to unpack the vision 2024。
for us.。
Thank you.。
We wanted to make sure to set the context for you, so you have a vision context that。
all of this is coming from.。
Now Hong Kong has been going through a lot in the last four years.。
It's been a difficult, disorienting season for many.。
And I wanted to look at some of these uncertainties and challenges that we are facing as a city.。
And so Hong Kong is facing a major mental health crisis, especially among youth and。
the next generation.。
Now there was a recent survey that was done from the Hong Kong Federation of Youth Groups,。
which interviewed over 3,600 people, secondary students, and it revealed that 51.9% of the。
youth showed emotional symptoms of depression.。
And out of this group, 48.6% showed levels that were considered to be at the highest。
levels of stress and anxiety.。
So they have a scale by which they measure that.。
And so basically 25% of Hong Kong youth are living at the highest levels of stress and。
anxiety.。
I'm going to step a little bit to the side so you can see this here good.。
But perhaps more importantly, the suicide situation among youth is alarming.。
In a recent survey by Save the Children Hong Kong, they pointed out that the suicide rate。
amongst every 100,000 youth between the ages of 15 and 24 had jumped from a rate from 6.2。
to 12.2 in 2014 to 12.2 in 2022.。
So pretty much that rate has doubled.。
And so our youth have been under increasing stress and not having ways of knowing how。
to cope or having the support that they need.。
Now I used to be a youth pastor in the city.。
And I once hosted in Germany actually youth from Hong Kong.。
And during that time, it was like one of those things when you're on a trip, sometimes you。
just really open up more than in other times.。
And half the youth from this youth group shared that they had thought about committing suicide。
or had attempted.。
Half.。
And this was even from a church.。
So I just want to say this.。
These are not like, I'm not just rattling off statistics.。
And I know you feel the same.。
You've been feeling it this past year with the news that we've been receiving about what's。
happening.。
Maybe you're a teacher at a school where a student has taken his life.。
And so this, I mean, this is a real crisis and this is heavy.。
Now in November 2023, there's some data provided from the Hong Kong Jockey Club Center for。
Suicide Research and Prevention.。
And noted at least 37 students in Hong Kong have taken their own lives since the beginning。
of that year.。
And along with this number are approximately 269 who were able to save themselves, but。
had attempted suicide.。
And then this is just the ones we knew about.。
And then there's also all those who have thought about it and the ones that are not being reported。
on.。
So we can say that there is an overwhelming mental health crisis among teenagers, but。
also overall in this population in the city.。
And there is helplessness, people are feeling lost, feeling hopeless, there's despair.。
So this is a real challenge and this is heavy.。
Now besides mental health crisis, there's also growing economic disparity.。
Hong Kong for a very long time has had one of the biggest disparities between those who。
are wealthy and those who are poor.。
But during this time period, this disparity has only increased.。
So that means that those who are in the socioeconomic and the lower status of that in Hong Kong,。
that for them to afford housing has become more difficult, and that the housing situations。
also whatever housing they can afford is usually not ideal and not really that suitable.。
So then due to political changes in the city, Hong Kong has also been having a declining。
population and the government is well aware that they also need to do things to invest.。
I think just this week, they announced plans of how to stimulate the economy and everything.。
So there's a need to bring in foreign talent and new investments into the city.。
And for local people, especially local youth under the age of 30, there's also a question,。
about the future of freedom of speech and expression.。
And also whether the one country, two system model will continue without any further and。
sudden changes.。
So there's a lot of uncertainty.。
We just don't know what to expect and that causes anxiety and stress.。
So it's very clear that we're facing major challenges as a city.。
And when we're searching for answers, there hasn't been few and far in between.。
So we can put it another way, there is a lack of hope for the future.。
This has stripped joy and positivity out of Hong Kong for quite some time now.。
Now in our "Seek the Welfare of the City" sermon series, we've also been talking about。
this conversation where people say, "Should I stay or should I go?"。
And where we're living in this constant question, what does the future hold?。
And that can preoccupy us so much that it paralyzes us.。
That we're not able to be present.。
Present to our loved ones, present to God, present to what he has for us.。
And so these trends that I just shared and the statistics, that's heavy.。
This is not something that's light.。
And so as a leadership, as we were praying over this, we felt that God wants to release。
joy over the city.。
That he wants to turn this lament, this disorientation and despair, that he wants to release hope。
through his church.。
And he wants Hong Kong to once again be a shining light of God's presence in China,。
but also in the world.。
Now I don't know about you, have you heard anyone, do you hear anyone talk like this。
about Hong Kong recently?。
That Hong Kong is going to be a shining light in China because of God's presence among the。
people in Hong Kong and in this world?。
Now this is not the first time that God has stepped into a situation, has stepped into。
a city and has turned around its fortune.。
And so what we're going to do today is we're going to look at the book of Zachariah, which。
is one of the prophetic books.。
Israel has just been brought back from exile.。
They've been there for 70 years.。
And upon returning, they're resettling the cities, but they're really struggling to find。
their way forward because that time in exile was disorienting.。
Their life was totally shaken up and it also was over such a long time period, you know,。
that they're struggling to find ground underneath their feet.。
And so Zachariah's prophecy comes about 20 years after the exiles have returned.。
And while they're still struggling with all of the impact of all of that, and it makes。
me think of Hong Kong here.。
For the last three, four years, there's been protests, there's been COVID, there's been。
all the economic things happening that have deeply impacted, you know, how we as a city。
have been feeling.。
And we've been struggling to know how should we navigate the future?。
You know, how should we move forward?。
And it's the same situation in Babylon, where they do not know how to face the future.。
They do not know how to move forward.。
And into the situation, God speaks through the prophet Zachariah.。
And he speaks into the despair, he speaks into the uncertainty, and he speaks to his。
people.。
And perhaps today, and I believe today, God wants to speak to us who ourselves are maybe。
feeling some of those feelings.。
And he wants to speak into our situation as well.。
So let's turn to Zachariah 8, we're starting in verse 18, it says this, "The word of the。
Lord Almighty came to me.。
This is what the Lord Almighty says, the feast of the fourth, fifth, seventh, and tenth months。
will become joyful and glad occasions and happy festivals for Judah.。
Therefore love, truth and peace.。
This is what the Lord Almighty says, many peoples and the inhabitants of many cities。
will yet come.。
And the inhabitants of one city will go to another and say, let us go at once to entreat。
the Lord and seek the Lord Almighty.。
I myself am going and many peoples and powerful nations will come to Jerusalem to seek the。
Lord Almighty and to entreat him.。
This is what the Lord Almighty says.。
In those days, 10 people from all languages and nations would take a firm hold of one。
Jew by the hem of his robe and say, let us go with you because we have heard God is with。
you."。
Now the first thing that I want to highlight from the passage I just read is that God says。
through Zachariah to his people that the fast that they've been observing needs to change.。
Now let me give you a little bit of background on that.。
So during exile, the Israelites, they chose four months where they're fasting, where they're。
mourning, where they're repenting of their sins, but where they're also lamenting their。
circumstances.。
They're crying out to God, "God, when is this going to change?。
When is this going to be different?"。
And so God is now saying that these fasts, they're going to turn from these times of。
mourning and times of lamenting, they're going to be turned into times of joy and festivals.。
And so in verse 18, he says, "It will become joyful and glad occasions and happy festivals。
for Judah."。
I mean, that is a 180 turnaround.。
That's like one thing that God does.。
You know, in Psalms talks about that he turns our mourning into dancing, that God has the。
power to meet us in our circumstances and to turn them around.。
He doesn't do that just individually, but he also can do that for a people, for a city,。
that he can change and turn around the circumstance.。
So he's shifting the expectations for the future and is wanting to turn lamenting to。
joy.。
Now, and I believe this is part of God's vision for Hong Kong as well.。
What has happened in our city in the past four years has been really hard, but I believe。
God is calling us for a shift in our spirit, in our city.。
He wants the people of Hong Kong to know what joy is once again.。
This doesn't mean we're going to ignore the challenges and the problems that are there。
and that do need addressing.。
They do.。
But what it means is we face these challenges from a position of expectation and hope, because。
God gives us hope.。
And with God, we can face these challenges differently and we can have a different outlook.。
So God wants to use us, his church in Hong Kong, to restore joy and hope to our city.。
Now how might God use the church to help facilitate this shift?。
And how is that supposed to work?。
Well let's take a look at what God says in Zechariah 8, verse 23.。
This is what the Lord Almighty says, "In those days, ten people from all languages and nations。
will take a firm hold of one Jew by the hem of his robe and say, 'Let us go with you,。
because we have heard that God is with you.'"。
Now I love this imagery of grabbing on and taking a hold of the hem of the robe.。
And so what God is saying, that there is something about the Jewish people that the others around。
them could see that they know God.。
There's something that they have to offer that they themselves don't have.。
There's a hope that they have that they themselves don't have, that only God can provide.。
And so only when you're desperate, when you're in a difficult situation, do you grab onto。
the hem of the robe of someone.。
You don't, I mean, if somebody would just randomly do that, like what are you doing?。
But this is a beautiful image of people just holding on, you know, because they know, they。
see hope.。
They see that God is with you.。
They see that there is something about you, you know, that you can lead them to a place。
that is different than the place that they find themselves in.。
There is something different in perspective that you have, and they're like, you know,。
they want to know what this is about.。
And so they grab a hold of you.。
So what does this mean for us as a church?。
Well, if God is calling Hong Kong back to joy and back to hope, then it's the church。
that becomes his main vehicle for this message.。
Indeed, if the church doesn't rise up in this occasion, who else will?。
This is kind of like you can say, this is our time.。
Right now, people are struggling, are hurting, they're disoriented, there's despair.。
And we as a people of God, we have hope because we know Jesus.。
So we have something to offer.。
And by the way, so the church is, it's God's plan.。
You know, it's not our idea, but it's always been God's plan to use the church.。
And by church doesn't mean, you know, our 1130 AM service.。
It means you.。
It means all of us.。
And he uses us to carry out his redemptive and his healing work.。
And that's always been God's plan, you know, biblically and theologically.。
And so we are his plan.。
Now, sometimes we downplay who we are and we don't embrace our role.。
But God has given us a role and it's time for us to rise and embrace our role as a church,。
as a people of God.。
Last week, Pastor John talked about being salt and light.。
It's also identity.。
It's part of identity.。
It's time to embrace that identity, to be salt and light as a people.。
And that means, it doesn't mean us as an organization.。
Of course, we want to do that as an organization, but it means us as people, the people of God.。
Now, we believe this is a prophetic imagery for us, for the Vininglong and how we can。
understand our role as church in the city in the season.。
The church is the hem of the robe of Jesus in the city.。
That's why I needed to wear a jacket today.。
We usually wear one on Sundays, but...。
And like the robes of Jewish people in Judaism that needed to be present in the marketplace,。
the public places, in the city so people could take a firm hold of them, we as a church,。
we need to be present in those spaces as well.。
When I look at you and I just think, "Wow."。
You know, you work at different places.。
Some of you probably work in Hong Kong Island.。
Some of you work here.。
Some of you work in your home.。
You live in different locations.。
Just even in this room, we inhabit so many different spheres of influence in Hong Kong.。
We are the hem of the robe of Jesus in the city that people can grab a hold on, and we。
are meant to have a presence in the places that God has placed us in.。
It's no coincidence that God has you where He has you.。
And it's up for us now to embrace this role in the cedars.。
It needs to see the church.。
It doesn't need to see our 11.30 AM gathering, even though that's nice if they see this.。
But what they need to see is our love, our hope, our care, our embrace, our serving in。
those spheres of influence, in those places.。
This is where the river model vision that Pastor Ivan was introducing and talking about。
comes in.。
Because instead of understanding ourselves as this building or church, as a building。
or a space, we're understanding ourselves as a river flowing all over Hong Kong.。
And you are part of that river that is flowing all over the city, watering a weary and a。
dry land with a gospel of peace and a gospel of hope.。
And that happens whenever we intentionally follow Jesus in the places where He has placed。
us.。
Wherever we carry His character, the river is flowing.。
And people can grab onto the hem of the robe because they can see there is something about。
you that you have.。
God is with you.。
And you can help them and connect them with God and lead them to God.。
So think of it this way.。
If God's vision for Hong Kong is to turn lament into joy and bring back to the city hope for。
a good future, then this is the vision for the Vining Lawn, to be a church present in。
every sphere of society, filled with people who know God and who want to make Him known,。
who are visible, hopeful, joyful, courageous, and loving.。
Now it's important sometimes when I talk about you are the church, you're the salt of the。
earth, you're the light, it can be quite intimidating because we're like, well, I'm not, I don't。
know what to say.。
I'm not perfect.。
I know my own life.。
I'm not fully who Jesus wants me to be yet.。
But know that in this passage from Zachariah, it doesn't say that the Jewish people were。
perfect people, but it was people who knew God.。
You know God.。
So you can be the hem of His robe, of Jesus in the city.。
It's not about perfection, but it's about you being available, God, and God using you.。
This is also one of the reasons why I've been focusing this year on fresh encounters with。
Jesus, because when you have a fresh encounter with Jesus, people can sense that, they can。
feel that.。
When you have intimacy with Jesus, they can tell there's something different about you.。
And at one point or another, either you bring it up, they bring it up, it just comes up.。
And people will say, you know, we heard God is with you, or I can see God is with you.。
So God will work through His church in the city, through His people.。
Now the church is God's chosen instrument, eternal, ament in the joy, fear into faith,。
despair into hope, darkness into light.。
Don't underestimate your role.。
We play it down.。
The enemy wants us to play it down.。
Don't underestimate your role.。
You are the church.。
You are the people of God.。
You are the light.。
You know Jesus.。
So it's time for us to embrace our role, so we can be the hem of the robe of Jesus in。
the city.。
So people can grab a hold of it.。
Now it's no accident that God has planted the viney long in this location at this time。
and has a call for us.。
And we get to encourage each other.。
And thus you don't have to do this journey on your own.。
That's why we gather here together and encourage each other to strengthen each other.。
That's why you have community groups to encourage each other, strengthen each other.。
And what it means to reflect Jesus in these different spheres of influence.。
So you and I were the hem of the robe of Jesus in the city.。
So today, on Vision Sunday, I'm asking you to give boldly and courageously because you。
believe the church has a contribution to make, turning lamented joy and despair into hope。
for a good future of the city.。
And so your offering today, whatever you're giving, goes 100% to what we do in here, but。
also what we do through us.。
Our giving goal for Vision Sunday this year is 400,000 Hong Kong dollars.。
Now that's a faith and a stretch goal.。
Ivan and I were praying and conversing, but it will help us to continue to expand the。
work that God has entrusted us with.。
And it's also an investment in the future, what God wants to continue to do through us,。
through his church, through his people in Hong Kong.。
So let me tell you a little bit about how these 400,000 Hong Kong dollars, how they。
will be used.。
Your giving strengthens the work of Kids for Christ and raising up the next generation。
of faith.。
Your offering helps us to serve the wider community by offering our workshops, our parenting。
workshops and focus on the mental health of children and equip parents, probably for their。
own mental health as well, to learn how to deal and serve and care for the mental health。
of their children.。
And so we want to make this available to, and we have made this available to the public.。
We're going to run four of these, two in English, two in Cantonese.。
The first one is in Cantonese this Saturday.。
If you haven't signed up and you speak Cantonese, I encourage you to sign up for it.。
But that is one way that we want to serve the community.。
We want to equip people and just lift people up.。
We also will launch a youth group this year to serve the relational, spiritual and emotional。
needs of our youth.。
Now we have some teenagers in the church.。
Some of them come, some of them don't come because right now we don't have a specific。
space or group for them.。
And our heart is that we can create a safe space for them to explore faith, to be encouraged,。
to have peers to journey with.。
And so we're looking to start a youth group this year.。
We also will continue to develop our partnership with Oasis.。
This is the Vine Counseling and Psychotherapy Center.。
We already have them use our space and see clients.。
We want to continue to develop our relationship with them as well.。
They also have workshops and different things they can offer.。
And so we believe that this will allow us to address this mental health crisis, to do。
our part in that in the city through these efforts.。
YouGiving also is about strengthening the work we do through Alpha.。
I just had a lovely conversation about Alpha right before coming up here.。
If you haven't participated in Alpha, it's incredible.。
Right now, since I've been sick, I'm not fully updated, so I probably better don't say anything。
specific that's wrong.。
But I know there's been, people are just blessed by this space of exploring who Jesus is and。
having a casual time where they can ask questions, share their thoughts, and it's amazing.。
So you're continuing to help us do that work.。
You're also helping us to continue to partner with Branches of Hope, develop new partnerships。
to serve the underprivileged, underserved in our city, those who are struggling perhaps。
in terms of housing and just providing for the most very basic needs for their families.。
And so we also are expanding that work.。
And the way we're doing that is through having two mission partners as a church this year.。
We want to identify two mission partners, not as a process.。
There has to be vision alignment in that, but that means we support them financially,。
we support them spiritually, and we also want to collaborate with them where that's appropriate.。
Sometimes that's not appropriate, but we want to do it if we can.。
And so we're praying over and discerning who we can partner with.。
And that's also a way of reaching further into the city and serving different groups。
of people in powerful ways.。
So we're inviting you now to make an investment in the city you're living in through the church。
that you are planted in.。
And every amount you give today, it counts.。
I don't want anyone to feel ashamed for what they give.。
You know, if it's $10, that's amazing.。
If it's more, that's amazing.。
But I just do want to encourage everyone, if you consider this your home church, to。
make an offering.。
And the beauty of it is that we all get to do this together, continue to build what God。
has entrusted us with, seeking the welfare of this city, investing in the city, and seeing。
lament turned into joy.。
So right now I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
I also want to invite everyone to stand.。
And so this is how we're going to do our offering time for Vision Sunday offering.。
We'll do it during worship.。
So whenever you feel ready, there are different ways you can give.。
There are envelopes on your seats.。
There are two tables, one on your right, one on your left, where you can drop off checks。
or cash offerings.。
There's also digital codes for digital giving.。
They're also on your envelope as well.。
So whenever you're ready to do that during worship, you just do it.。
And then at some point in time, we'll close this time of worship.。
But I would like to just pray for us as we enter this time of worship.。
Jesus, we thank you for all that you have been doing.。
We thank you for speaking to us about investing in the city.。
We thank you that you use us, your people, to be the hem of your robe in the city, that。
people can grab hold onto, a lifeline.。
When people are feeling despair and there's a need for hope, when there is deep just pain。
and sorrow and there's a need for your joy that only you can give, when there's a lack。
of peace and you're the only one who can give us peace.。
And so, Lord, we pray that you use us in the city in this way, that you use this offering。
that we are taking up today as part of our worship to you, that it will help us to carry。
out this work.。
And so we love you, Jesus, and we entrust all this to you.。
And I pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Let's worship.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
