Baby. Okay, let's quickly pray, guys. Okay, this is Jennifer.。
Jennifer looks after our community groups and does a lot of wonderful work connecting with people,。
helping people stay connected with each other in our church.。
So if you would stretch out your hand, let's pray for Jennifer.。
Jesus, we thank you for Jennifer. We thank you for this baby's cries, Lord.。
And we just ask that you would speak through Jennifer, Lord, this message that you've given to her.。
There's something for everybody to take from it this afternoon, Lord.。
So I just pray that you would use her according to your purpose this afternoon.。
In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.。
Thank you, Alison.。
Good afternoon, church.。
Yeah, good to see you all.。
And it's great to share a message, share from the Bible with you all this afternoon.。
So as Alison said, last week, Pastor Andrew opened a new sermon series on public faith.。
So he asked us a question last week, I think it's good to recap,。
that what should a Christian do when the whole world has gone crazy?。
I'm wrestling with this question as well, and I hope you do as well.。
So starting, so he emphasized that we are all called to be sought and liked,。
to demonstrate, to live out our faith and the love of Jesus to the people around us.。
And today we will look into one aspect of our life, which is very important, which is our work.。
So the coming weeks we will be looking into different aspects.。
But today we will look into our workplace.。
And I think most of us here spend the most hours of the week at our work, right?。
So this is really a very important area for us to think through,。
how we live our faith publicly to the people around us.。
And if you remember, two weeks ago, Pastor John also preached on a message about workplace.。
And he emphasized that there is no such separation between secular and sacred.。
And in fact, we are all called to evangelize in the workplace.。
And he gave us some great tips on how to evangelize as well.。
So if you miss any of the two weeks, we encourage you to catch up on YouTube.。
And today we will look into living our faith publicly in the workplace from a different perspective.。
So if you, let's say if we all go to work eight hours per day,。
we can't be spending eight hours to evangelize, right?。
If you do, then I'll be worried, unless you're a missionary.。
So there must be some purpose when we are doing our actual work, right?。
Otherwise, it will be just very frustrating if there's no purpose at all when we do our actual work.。
So last week, Pastor Andrew reminded us that living our faith can look differently.。
It can be revealed by how we live, by our lifestyles, by our beliefs, by our choices, by our habits, our character, how we use our resources.。
So it's the same to the workplace.。
We can reveal our faith to other people by how we work as well.。
So let us open with a few questions that we ask ourselves.。
How do we make our faith public when we are doing our daily work?。
How do we demonstrate our values as Christians when we are actually working?。
And how do we live as salt and light in the workplace, being a blessing to those we work alongside?。
And before we answer these questions, perhaps we need to take a step back on how we think about our work.。
Over these years, I've heard a lot of Christians struggle to see God when we work, and also to see the purposes in our work.。
And if I'm honest, I struggled with that at some point as well.。
So before I joined the staff team at the Vine, I was actually a paralegal.。
So I worked in the legal industry for a few years.。
And as you can imagine, as a legal professional, we can be super occupied.。
And I felt like I didn't really have time to think about God when I work.。
Every day I go into my office, then I'm occupied by tons of emails and phone calls from my bosses, from my clients,。
from all the different things that we are handling with.。
And I really struggle to see God.。
I felt like I heard a lot of voices from different people, but God's voice.。
I really struggle with that.。
And how I cope with it, I don't recommend that, but I will share how I cope with that.。
So I just fill my free time with a lot of Christian activities.。
Of course, Sunday services, I go to my CGs, I sign up for different Bible studies, and I serve at church as well.。
I just fill my schedule up, and that makes me feel like, oh, each day I have something that I'm doing in the church.。
So each day I have some moments I'm connected with God.。
So, again, do not recommend this. It's not sustainable.。
You only have that much energy when you were in early 20s.。
So not anymore for me now.。
And so if I'm honest with you, to a little bit further reflection on how we passed that into share last week,。
I was actually escaping the reality that I struggle in the workplace.。
And I'm sure I'm not alone in this room.。
We might cope with that differently.。
There are four models that were mentioned by Pastor Andrew to escape, like me, to insulate, to control, or to conform.。
So I'm not sure what your reflection is like, but at some point we are like that.。
Come on Sunday, we worship with our brothers and sisters, feeling super recharged spiritually.。
But the next day, when we go back to the office, facing the reality that our workplace is full of brokenness,。
full of sinfulness, full of unfairness, that we struggle to see God again.。
So, is it really like this when we work?。
Are there any other values apart from earning our daily bread in our work?。
So let's pause a moment to ask ourselves a question.。
What motivates us to go to work each day?。
And what motivates us to do our work each day?。
Paul in Colossians actually talks about how we could approach our work.。
He says in Colossians 3 that Jesus is risen and we are all raised with Jesus.。
And he calls us as Christians to put our sinful nature to death and to live for Jesus Christ.。
And then he talks about different types of relationships and how Christians should live those relationships.。
And then he talks about the relationships between slaves and masters.。
And then he says this.。
Here Paul is shifting our perspective on how we should approach work and work relationship as Christians.。
He calls us to see all that we are doing as a serving to Jesus.。
And we are to do everything with all our hearts for his sake.。
But there's one thing that I want to clarify.。
That's something Paul is not talking about.。
So Paul is not calling us to tolerate slavery and injustice in our workplace.。
We don't brainwash ourselves by saying, "Oh, I'm working for Jesus. I'm doing that for Jesus."。
And then we just continue to suffer in our workplace.。
This is not something Paul is talking about.。
Instead, Paul is reminding us that Jesus is sovereign in every aspect of our lives.。
And he is bringing transformation to the world.。
So he is inviting us as Christians to be part of his work.。
So we work with him and we bring transformation to the world with God.。
So as we are working, our motivation shouldn't come from the world or come from our bosses.。
But at the same time, he's not calling us to disregard everything about our human bosses either.。
But he's calling us to do this.。
As we are rendering what is right and what is wrong,。
we should be considering what is fitting in the Lord as our priority.。
So we need to think about this.。
Are we demonstrating the sovereignty of Jesus as we work?。
Are we working as in we are working for Jesus?。
Is there a way for us Christians to work that can reflect Jesus as our Lord?。
That is visible to other people?。
And what does it look like to be sought and liked in our workplaces through the way we work。
that reflect Jesus' heart and character?。
So on this, we can talk about many different topics.。
In fact, in the Bible, Jesus has demonstrated his character.。
And there are so many of them that we can apply to our workplace.。
We can talk about topics like humility or generosity, patience, kindness, or even forgiveness.。
But there's one that I feel is really important for us as Christians。
for becoming the sought and liked to the world。
and to approach our workplaces in a right mindset and values.。
And I would like to call that as a Christ-centered integrity.。
So when we hear about the word integrity, I don't know what comes to your mind.。
So in English, it means honesty and uprightness.。
We use this word to describe someone who demonstrates a very strong ethic, perhaps.。
So any musical fans here?。
Yay! Yay!。
So if you know the story of Les Miserables, there's a character called Chaffer.。
He is an inspector. He sees that everyone follows the law to serve Jesus Christ.。
And he almost takes it in a very legalistic way.。
He's quite uncompassionate, and there's no grace in that area, which is quite sad.。
And this is not the character of God either.。
I can go on talking about limits, but let's focus on this.。
But the Bible, the word integrity in the Bible has such a rich meaning that I want to share with you today.。
So we will look into the Old Testament usage of the word integrity.。
And the first usage, which is more common, which is zedek, which means righteousness.。
This word is to describe someone who is morally aligned with God.。
So which is, I think that makes sense to us.。
But there is another usage of integrity in the Old Testament, which is tamam.。
So the meaning of this word is to reach an end and to be completed.。
This word is frequently used in the books of Leviticus and Numbers,。
and with reference to sacrificial animals, which are without blemish and physically whole.。
So this is very interesting, right?。
Does it ring a bell that Jesus is actually the Lamb of sacrifice?。
He sacrificed fully for our sake.。
And we as Christians are also called to live as a living sacrifice to Jesus as well.。
So today, if we are to ask you to look at your work, to look at how you work,。
would you say it is a whole sacrifice to Jesus?。
I do want to clarify this.。
Working fully for Jesus does not mean that we work 24/7, okay?。
But it is to fully align with Jesus' values and His character as we work.。
This is what it means.。
So we are to align ourselves with God's values and His character,。
no matter how big or how small we feel our work is.。
And throughout these years, working in both corporate and also ministry,。
I've seen and I've heard so many Christians really desire to work fully for God,。
and I'm sure many of us here as well.。
But it's just so hard to do that, right?。
Our work environment is full of brokenness,。
it's full of unfairness,。
and it is impossible for us to change a whole environment with our own strength.。
And it is so common for us to hear these words in our workplace.。
I heard these from Christians as well.。
Let me give you some examples.。
I'm not paid enough to do my work.。
Or my boss is so mean to us.。
Or the company is so unfair in its practices.。
So I'll just slack off and not give my 100% to our work.。
Or we are seeing everyone in our workplace is doing their bare minimum,。
so I'll just do the same to make it fair.。
Or we see everyone taking advantage of the reimbursement system,。
so I'll just do the same.。
And perhaps you are thinking,。
"I will give my 100% when I get paid enough,。
when I get a better boss,。
or when my company is finally fair to me."。
But I want to say this to us.。
The reality is the world is never going to be perfect.。
We will never feel enough, myself included.。
And there's no such perfect human boss or perfect working environment.。
With this mindset, we are depending on the environment to shape how we work,。
instead of allowing our faith to shape how we work.。
When we allow the environment to become our motivation,。
we're still not offering that whole sacrifice to God.。
And we have lost our calling to be salt and light in this world.。
As Andrew shared last week,。
salt and light is not only just to be different from the world,。
but also to bring changes to the world,。
to add flavor to the world,。
to preserve the world from decaying,。
and to bring light to the darkness.。
But if we are to let the environment to shape how we work,。
we become the darkness in the darkness,。
and a tasteless salt.。
To help us to unpack this idea further,。
I would like to look into a parable。
to see the danger of letting the environment become our motivation at work.。
So we will read Luke chapter 16 together.。
Jesus told his disciples,。
there was a rich man whose manager was accused of wasting his possessions.。
So he called him in and asked him,。
"What is this I hear about you?。
Give an account of your management,。
because you cannot be manager anymore."。
The manager said to himself,。
"What shall I do now?。
My master is taking away my job.。
I'm not strong enough to dig,。
and I'm ashamed to beg.。
I know what I'll do so that when I lose my job here,。
people will welcome me into their houses."。
So he called in each one of his master's daughters.。
He asked the first,。
"How much do you owe my master?"。
"Three thousand liters of olive oil," he replied.。
The manager told him,。
"Take your bill, sit down quickly, and make him fifteen hundred."。
Then he asked the second,。
"And how much do you owe?"。
"Thirty tons of wheat," he replied.。
He told him, "Take your bill and make it twenty-four."。
The master commended the dishonest manager。
because he had added, "Truly,。
for the people of this world are more shrewd。
in dealing with their own kind than the people of the light."。
So we might feel a little bit confused here right now.。
I get it.。
But we will break down this parable。
and see what's actually going on in the story.。
So the parable starts with a rich man。
who heard an accusation about his staff。
wasting his money or resources.。
And the word "accused" here might be implicating that.。
This is a false accusation.。
But his immediate response was to lay off his staff.。
So the story is pretty messed up。
at the beginning of the sentence.。
So the manager, without an opportunity to defend himself,。
immediately thinks about how he should respond to his situation.。
And apparently he still has a notice period in the story,。
and he still has the time to be in the office。
as a manager for the rich man.。
Out of the fear about the future,。
he has decided to take advantage of his position。
to lower the debts of his master's debtors。
so that those people owe him a favor。
which should possibly benefit him in the future.。
So in the Greco-Roman society, there's a culture there.。
When someone gives you a favor,。
you are almost obliged to give a bigger favor in return.。
So this is what the manager was doing.。
So I wonder we see the change of effects here.。
In the manager's heart, he probably thinks like this.。
"My boss is unfair to me.。
He trusted all the other people instead of me.。
He did not even give me a chance to explain before laying me off.。
So I'm going to use my position for my own benefit one last time.。
It's not my fault, but his."。
It sounds familiar to us, right?。
It sounds like something that we hear in our workplaces.。
"Because my boss is unfair, I'm going to make it fair in my own way。
by slacking off or by claiming more money than I should, etc, etc."。
I want us to see this.。
When we suffer from the darkness of the world,。
it is actually an opportunity for us to choose.。
To choose whether we follow the Christ-centered value。
to demonstrate the integrity,。
or we choose to follow the world's way。
to own the value of the world。
and extend that suffering and make other people suffer as well.。
So this parable is an example of being darkness in the darkness。
and the tasteless salt.。
There's one more detail that I would like us to look into,。
which is the action of reducing the debt amount and the master's response.。
So there are different debates between the scholars。
about how the manager reduced the debt amount.。
Some people said that he's actually reducing the high interest。
of the debt in those days,。
and some people are saying that the manager is eliminating。
the commissions that he should have received,。
so he is actually doing a good thing.。
But in fact, at the end, the master commended him for acting shrewdly.。
What he did might be benefiting for every person in the story.。
The debtors actually get to pay less.。
The master may be seen as a generous person。
and he gained his reputation as well.。
And the manager is commended by the master.。
So it's kind of a win-win-win situation here.。
We're not sure about the interest and commission part,。
but I want us to see this.。
Jesus clearly said that his intention was to find security。
after losing his job.。
And in 1st Adam, Jesus described the manager as a dishonest manager.。
It could be true that he did a good thing for everyone.。
It could be true that he's working smartly.。
But Jesus also takes his dishonesty into his account.。
And Jesus cannot unsee his dishonesty in his heart.。
Same to us. Jesus wants the whole of us.。
He does not only see the product of our work,。
and also he sees our heart.。
I wonder how this speaks to us.。
It doesn't have to be always dishonesty or false accusation in our workplace.。
We can do all the right things in people's eyes.。
We can follow all the things that our work requires us to do.。
We can have great influence to the people around us,。
and perhaps in the society as well.。
But are we demonstrating the values that we believe?。
Are we doing the right thing with the right intention,。
even when no one sees it?。
And how are we making choices in different situations,。
especially in the difficult ones?。
Will we choose to uphold our values,。
even if those values are unpopular among our work environment?。
So right now I want to share my personal story.。
So there was a time that I found my value being very unpopular in my work environment,。
and I want to share this with you today.。
So I really struggled with my work environment。
after I changed from working in a law firm to working in-house.。
Not the church.。
So the difference between law firm and in-house is,。
in a law firm, my original work,。
90% of my colleagues are legal professionals.。
So we kind of bond by the same professional conduct in our office.。
But in-house, which is a commercial company,。
where 95% of my colleagues were not legal professionals,。
so they are salesperson or they are office support.。
So that's when I really struggled with that environment for three reasons.。
I will tell you why.。
So firstly, I don't know why about one thing.。
So until today, I still don't understand that.。
So if you understand that, can you tell me after the service。
that our staff seem to be very obsessed with knowing the confidential information of the company.。
So they will come to me, try to make friends,。
and then they will ask me to tell them something confidential,。
perhaps the HR movement,。
or some confidential or personal data of a certain staff member.。
But to me, as a legal professional,。
my biggest commitment is confidentiality.。
I can't tell you this.。
So I was quite frustrated with these interactions in the first place.。
And the other thing that I struggle with is,。
the staff will constantly tell me that certain things I'm supposed to do.。
But to me, those clearly are not within the legal scope.。
So I didn't quite understand why.。
But I feel like I'm a person with good boundaries.。
So I'm okay with saying no.。
So I would just say, "Oh, I don't think so."。
But here is the thing that I most struggle with.。
So whenever I say no to people,。
whenever it's about the confidential data,。
or whether it is about doing certain things that I'm not supposed to do,。
they will say something like this to me.。
And I'm not kidding.。
Throughout my time there, for more than two years,。
people are still saying that to me before I left the company.。
They say something like this.。
"Listen, the former staff in your position would do that."。
And this is not the most hurting part.。
Here it is.。
"She is popular among the staff, and you are not."。
And I'm like, "Ouch! What have I done to you?"。
And I really struggle at some points,。
because the environment was nothing like that in law firm,。
that I had good relationships with my colleagues.。
So I don't know why.。
I don't understand why people would say this to me.。
And so I really struggled, and I prayed.。
I prayed for my work environment.。
I prayed that God would speak to me, and he did,。
which is the dangerous part.。
So one day I was praying,。
and he reminded me of a conversation with him。
at the very beginning of my training in law school.。
So I remember one night, God was saying to me,。
"Jennifer, I want you to be different."。
Not in the sense that you need to be different,。
rebelliously different from everyone else,。
but being able to discern what is right,。
even if everyone else is telling you the opposite.。
So I was reminded of that,。
and so I had to make a choice,。
whether I listen to those voices,。
or I listen to Jesus.。
And I couldn't bear the result of not listening to Jesus。
when he actually speaks to you.。
So I just try to continue, to try to uphold my value,。
try to trust that God is doing his work behind the scenes.。
And he is gracious enough to show me。
that I'm actually making an impact.。
It's not a big impact,。
I did not change the whole work environment,。
but I remember one day,。
it was very close to the end of my time there.。
I worked there for two years already,。
and then one colleague came up to me.。
We didn't really talk in the past,。
throughout the two years.。
We're from different department.。
So she came to me and she said,。
"Jennifer, I see that you're having a different approach at your work."。
First of all, that you really value。
teaching people to do their work。
instead of doing the work for other people,。
which I think our company needs that,。
and I appreciate that.。
And also, the other thing is,。
I see that you're not a fan of pleasing people,。
and you don't compromise,。
no matter how people commented about your work.。
And that motivates me, my colleague,。
to hold on to her values in her role as well.。
So it's kind of encouraging to me personally,。
on all the things that I've been trying to do.。
I don't know how my story speaks to you.。
You might be expecting a testimony with a bigger impact。
or more immediate impact,。
but that's my two years story.。
But I want to say that,。
no matter which area, which industry you're working in,。
we are living in a tension。
between the values of the world。
and the values of Christ.。
And the world is going to tell you every single day。
how you should be working。
and what value you should be upholding.。
And you will need to make a choice.。
You will need to choose whether you follow those voices。
or you follow the voice from God.。
Yeah, so you could be working in a different industry.。
Let me give you some examples.。
If you work in academia,。
you might be told that you need to publish more papers,。
you need to earn the academic reputation.。
If you are a salesperson,。
you will be told that you need to hit the target,。
you need to earn the most money from the person in front of you。
or from the company that you're working with,。
or you're working in an office with some routine work。
and people will tell you,。
"Don't ask questions, just follow what everyone else do."。
But I want us to ask this question,。
"What does Jesus say about that?"。
"What does Jesus say on the things that people are telling you?"。
I don't think I can give a straightforward answer。
or I can't give you a formula that you follow A, B, and C,。
then we are flourishing for Jesus in our workplace.。
It is really a conversation between you and Jesus personally.。
It takes a long-term effort.。
It's not like we do something nice and we check it off the box.。
Demonstrating our values requires our commitment and persistence.。
Firstly, we need to commit to constantly seek。
what is fitting in Jesus' eyes.。
And then we need to persist in following that as we work.。
When it comes to be sought and liked,。
it takes consistent effort.。
We need to persist our faith and our value in long-term basis.。
And we can expect we will face some challenges and temptations along the way.。
We will need to challenge the mindset of。
"Everyone else is doing the same, so I'll just do the same."。
You may be thinking, "What if I suffer even more if I work differently?"。
Or you might be thinking, "What if my boss and my colleagues。
take advantage of me if I work differently?"。
It could happen, right?。
But I want to say this to us.。
To follow Jesus is also to extend the grace。
and the light that we have received from Jesus.。
And the grace that we have received has already changed our whole life.。
And it is our turn to be sought and liked,。
to be different from the world,。
to change the state of blindness and darkness around us.。
And this is the purpose when we are doing our actual work.。
We are demonstrating the light, the hope,。
and the grace to the people around us,。
although we don't always see it.。
And we will need to hold on to Jesus by faith to be able to do that.。
So I've been talking a lot, and in this sermon series,。
we believe that it will be helpful for us to hear different voices from our community.。
So I've shared my story, and we will hear another story。
from one of our congregation members from our community,。
who is Chris Webster. He works in a totally different industry,。
and he's going to come up and share his testimony with us.。
So would you join me to welcome Chris to the stage?。
Thank you, Jennifer.。
My voice is getting stronger over the day.。
It starts off pretty weak. Excuse me a minute.。
That was amazing, Jennifer.。
Being different, being accused, being attacked, being misunderstood.。
Jesus has been there before, right?。
I want to share a life hack, a spiritual life hack that I was given。
roughly when I was about this age of the congregation.。
But first of all, to Moses, one of my heroes.。
Somewhat over 3,000 years ago,。
Moses was moving into his second big career change.。
This one was going to be leading a nation, nation building.。
Never done it before.。
And he spent those epic 40 nights on the mountain,。
the mountain that Andrews visited in person.。
And getting a download from God about what this job is going to entail.。
He was briefed by God himself. Great tip.。
Everything came. Social relationships, economic relationships,。
how to handle animal husbandry, matters of life and death,。
the structure of the executive, the structure of the judiciary, everything.。
Religion. At the end of the chapters in Exodus that narrate this,。
there's a hiatus, a pause, a summary.。
What will God choose to emphasize?。
Will it be the first commandment, the first great commandment?。
Or will it be the sacrificial bits of the religion that portend Jesus's own sacrifice?。
1,300 years later. It was the Sabbath.。
The fourth of the commandments. What's that about?。
When I was doing my A-levels, not quite so long ago as Moses, but almost,。
in London, Jesus came and whispered to me,。
"Will you adopt a spiritual principle discipline that will guide your career and your life?"。
Not just the A-levels that you're about to face. Excuse me.。
He said, "It's the spirit of the Sabbath." Not the law of the Sabbath.。
Not bound by that. That was the Hebrews. The spirit of the Sabbath.。
The principle of the Sabbath. What's the spirit of the Sabbath?。
Well, what came to me, and one interpretation of that aspect of the Sabbath is,。
we all have seven days in which to labor.。
To the Hebrews, in principle, you have seven days to plow the fields, to plant, to water,。
to put the manure on it, to harvest, to make the hay.。
I've worked on a farm, and I know that you do not stop on a Sunday.。
You have to get everything in, otherwise you can lose some of it.。
To the Hebrews, you will be at a disadvantage if you follow my rule on the Sabbath.。
To students, to me when I was your age, some of you,。
other students around you will be studying 24/7, plus plus in Hong Kong.。
You will be at a disadvantage to me. I'm not asking you to do this.。
I'm not expecting parents to write to Andrew or, you know, measure this, measure it.。
Pause. Download from heaven. Hear what God wants.。
And I will be with you, and I will make it up.。
It's the Sabbath in that sense is, it's an implementation of the idea of meekness.。
Meekness, Andrew taught us some months ago, I think, is having the power to do something,。
but choosing not to use it.。
You're the greatest debater, and you're arguing with somebody who's not.。
Desist. Stand back. Let them win.。
You're a powerful boss. You could easily wipe the floor with some of your competitors.。
Don't. Stand back. Let them have the floor.。
Meekness, one of the greatest virtues.。
Jesus himself embodied meekness in such a powerful way.。
He left everything behind. His mightiness.。
We often think about Jesus as somebody who knew everything,。
could remember right back to phase one of creation.。
I don't think he could. Did he as a baby? Probably not.。
At which point then did he learn it? I think he learned it from his heavenly father.。
He put it all aside. Meekness.。
So, sabbathing, meekness.。
So I did. I accepted the challenge when I was, how old were you with the A-levels? 18? 19?。
Come the exams, up to the precipice.。
Shall I work on a Sunday? No.。
I'm going to finish my revision on a Saturday.。
Again, no words from parents here, please.。
You have to do what God is asking you to do yourself.。
Undergraduate degree, same. Postgraduate degree, same.。
Work right through my career. I'm a professor at Hong Kong U.。
When my students or young academic mentees come and ask,。
how do you become a successful professor in Hong Kong U?。
For those, often I just give the sort of advice they want to hear.。
Or rather, the advice they need.。
But for those who have ears to hear, I'll tell them meekness stories.。
I'll tell them faith stories. Like on my most difficult days when I was dean,。
I was dean for 11 years at Hong Kong U, managing one of its 10 faculties.。
For the most difficult days, I would get up, get going an extra hour,。
an extra two hours early to pray, to meditate,。
to make sure that before I stepped foot into my workplace,。
I carried Jesus with me.。
And I knew that could save hours and hours and hours, days, weeks, litigation, everything.。
But if you go in with the spirit of Jesus, he can solve it in a minute.。
Not always, but he can.。
So finally, how does that personal story, a personal discipline,。
impact the workplace and all that Jennifer's told us about the challenges therein?。
Well, it changes you and you change the workplace.。
I love the bit in Revelation 19 that says,。
"The spirit of prophecy is the testimony of Jesus."。
It fits very nicely the other way around, slightly different meaning.。
The testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.。
When you Sabbath, or when you fast, or when you pray, you're giving up something.。
You're saying, "I can't do it on my own.。
I'm going to go into work with one hand tied behind my back。
because I want you to do it, not me to do it."。
And when you do that, the Father, the Son, and Holy Spirit embrace you。
and fill you with the spirit.。
And they say to your Sabbathing, like they do to your secret fasting,。
when you do it in secret, your Father in heaven will see what you do in secret。
and will reward you.。
And how does he reward you?。
He rewards you by giving you more of the spirit of prophecy.。
So you become more of a testimony of Jesus.。
But how did we ever think that we did things to change the workplace,。
that we had to learn ABCD of workplace evangelism?。
There's a place for that.。
Jesus does it.。
He fills you, and he impacts, and he changes you.。
I was thinking of Jennifer's problem.。
You never know.。
That lady you talked about, it might have been that the only reason why you're employed。
for two years was to give her that lesson.。
You don't know what she went on to do.。
That's how God works.。
One person like a lost sheep from the spirit of Christ working in you.。
Thank you.。
[applause]。
Thank you so much, Chris.。
Hopefully, Chris, this story will encourage you as well,。
that when we choose to uphold God's value in the workplace,。
and Jesus is there, the Holy Spirit will help us to get through that.。
So it will look differently to your own stories, to your own work that you are doing.。
We believe that.。
After all, we are asking Jesus, "What do you say about my work?"。
So I encourage you, after today, that you will start having that conversation with Jesus,。
between you and Jesus, to ask Him, "What do you say about my work?。
How do you want me to uphold your values in our work?"。
So right now, I want to invite us to stand and we pray together.。
I would like to pray for you.。
First of all, I want to recognize that some of us in this room, you might really struggle with your work.。
You really struggle with maybe the craziness of the hours or the intensity of your work.。
You might be struggling with the environment.。
We will pray for you if that's you.。
And then we will pray that Jesus will speak to you.。
You might think, "I've never heard Jesus speaking to me in this area."。
But Jesus promised us that when we ask, He will answer.。
So we will take a moment to ask Him to speak to each of us.。
And lastly, we will pray that the power of the Spirit will give you the strength to actually persist,。
to follow Him in the workplace.。
So would you join me in prayer?。
Jesus, we thank you.。
We thank you that you sacrificed for us.。
And thank you for your goodness for each human being in this world.。
And you intend all of us to live under your grace.。
And Lord, we thank you that you called us to be part of your work,。
to be part of the light that shines into the darkness in the world.。
And we want to come before you to recognize our limitations,。
to bring our weakness, to bring our struggles in front of you.。
And we pray for those among our brothers and sisters who are really struggling to see you in the workplace.。
Jesus, would you come?。
Would you come and give us the grace that is enough for us each day?。
Give us the courage, the strength to overcome the challenges,。
to overcome the struggles that we face each day.。
And Jesus, we also want to pray for each of us as you have called each of us to be your salt and light.。
Lord, we invite you to speak to us in terms of our work.。
There are so many voices that we hear each day.。
Everyone is telling us how we are supposed to work.。
But Lord, we want to hear your voice.。
Lord, speak to us.。
Speak to us on how we are supposed to work for you.。
Speak to us on how we are working with you in all the things that we are doing daily,。
no matter how big, how small it looks like.。
Jesus, we pray that your voice will be louder than all the other voices that we hear each day.。
And we will hold on to that.。
We desire to live fully for you.。
We desire to work for you.。
So Jesus, would you help us?。
And Lord, we want to ask for your Spirit, because we can't do this without our own strength.。
Holy Spirit, we ask that you will give us the strength, the wisdom,。
and the persistence that we need in our workplace.。
We persist to uphold your values, to uphold you in all the things that we are doing.。
So Lord, we ask for your help in our workplace.。
And we thank you that we get to worship with our brothers and sisters together.。
We thank you that you speak to us, you speak to the areas that perhaps we struggle the most.。
And we pray that tomorrow when we wake up, that we still see you, we are still connected with you,。
even though we are struggling in our workplace.。
So Lord, will you be with us as we work?。
And we thank you, in Jesus' name. Amen.。
(gentle music)。
