Hello everybody, good morning. I'm so happy to be here to share with what God has put into my heart today.。
And first of all, I'd like to show you one of my most treasured letters that I have received.。
This letter is from my late father, who wrote to me when I was around 14 years old.。
He moved back to Hong Kong six months before my mother and I could move back to Hong Kong。
because he needed to start work early.。
And so at that time, my mom and I were in New Zealand, and he was back in Hong Kong.。
So at the beginning of the letter, he talked about how summer was like in Hong Kong。
and what he did during the day and the routine stuff.。
But towards the end of the letter, he would often tell me what to do。
and what you need to do to help my mom out and all those things.。
It is because that he has us in mind when he was writing the letter.。
And I'm sure that when you are writing, I don't know if you've been writing letters now,。
but when you're writing a lengthy email or a letter,。
you especially want to pour out all you want to do and all you have at the very end.。
And so this is the heart of this letter.。
If you just take the last part of my dad's letter out,。
you would just see him telling me to turn off the lights, close the window, and be alert.。
And it's all the things that you need to do.。
But actually, the heart of the letter is that he wants us to be safe, and he misses us,。
and he wants us to be there with him.。
And so this is what the letter of Galatians is like as well.。
If you just take apart the letter part, the last part of the Galatians,。
you would see that all is full of things that Paul would like us to do,。
remind us about the rules and all those things.。
But actually, what he said in the beginning set a tone,。
set the heart of what this letter is about.。
And so at the very end, he's pouring his heart out,。
because it is towards the end of the letter.。
He wants to make sure that everyone in the church understands。
and is able to do what his reminders are.。
And so we're reading the last part of the letter today.。
And Paul began by the letter, the whole letter,。
by straightening up what is the true gospel.。
The gospel, as known as the good news,。
is not about what you do to become a Jew so that you could be accepted in Christ.。
The good news is that Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law。
and becoming a curse for us.。
So in Christ Jesus, you're all children of God through faith.。
And all of you who are baptized into Christ have clothed yourself in Christ.。
And it is for freedom that God has set you free.。
And because you are his sons, God sent the spirit of his son into our lives.。
And isn't that powerful?。
When we believe in Jesus, we have the Holy Spirit inside of us.。
The Holy Spirit that raised Jesus from the dead is living inside of you.。
He who leads you to the truth, who empowers you to do good work,。
and heals and transforms your life is living inside of you.。
And what does that look like?。
Well, Pastor Tim last week told us that it would look like a fruit tree.。
It does sound like a little bit funny to talk about, "Oh, it looks like a fruit tree."。
But think about it.。
If you see apples on a tree, you know that it's an apple tree.。
If you see bananas on a tree, you know that it is a banana tree.。
And when people see that what you do is full of love,。
that you have peace and you make peace,。
and that there's faithfulness and gentleness in the way that you connect with people,。
they know that there is something inside of you that is different,。
and that is the Holy Spirit in you.。
We do things in love.。
We treat others with gentleness and are faithful.。
We do all of that not because we want to earn brownie points.。
We do all of that because we are transformed by the power of the Holy Spirit,。
which leads us to live a godly life.。
And so what does that look like when a group of Spirit-led people come together?。
This is what we're focusing on today in Galatians chapter 6.。
So let us read those first together.。
In Galatians chapter 6, verse 1, it says,。
"Brothers and sisters, if someone is caught in a sin,。
you who live by the Spirit should restore that person gently."。
Thank you for reading.。
It's inevitable in a group to work together and be together without conflict,。
especially we know that we are full of faults, full of weaknesses, right?。
Paul knows that well.。
And so instead of saying, "Brothers and sisters, those who live by the Spirit,。
you need to correct the others," he uses the word "restore."。
The word "restore" means to put back in order or to repair.。
It is the word that uses for setting a fractured bone.。
We have to put the broken one back together like a doctor would do.。
So recently I've noticed that I have pain in a lot of areas because--。
well, if you've noticed carefully in the letter, you could guess I'm not a teenager anymore.。
But I've noticed that I have pains in my arms, and I was wondering,。
"Why was my arm hurting?"。
So instead of telling my arm, "Don't hurt anymore,"。
I need to find out why my arm is hurting, what kind of pain is it telling me.。
Is it a muscle pain? Is it a joint pain? Is it a pain because I was carrying a lot of stuff?。
The way to restore my body, first of all, is to listen and to notice the pain。
and then to understand what causes it and then to provide treatment.。
And so when Paul said that if someone is caught in sin,。
if we notice that someone in our community is not acting right,。
we should restore that person.。
He's saying that if this community is spirit-led,。
we are not to cut off that person from our community.。
We're not to condemn them and say, "You're not acting right.。
You can't be in this community anymore."。
But what we need to do is we need to listen to their pain。
and understand what causes it and to give it treatment.。
Let me give you an example.。
When I was a teacher, I came across a very bright kid.。
He knows everything very quickly and he understands things very quickly,。
but he's also the first person to point out where my mistakes are.。
He's always the first person to go, "Hey, that is not fair,"。
and he would laugh at the person who is making those mistakes.。
It was not a very good behavior. We don't desire it.。
But I want to investigate what causes that.。
And so I asked the parents, like, you know,。
"What happened to this person? What happened to this kid?"。
And I did a little bit of observation.。
And I noticed that the way that he acts is not because he's a naughty kid.。
It was because he was lonely.。
He did not know how to connect with his classmate.。
When he said, "It's not fair," when he said that,。
"Oh, he did something wrong," he noticed that his other classmate。
would join him to laugh at that person。
or to do something that is not right or to, you know, act out together.。
And in that way, he felt that he was connected.。
And so the way that he was doing, the things that he was saying。
was not because he was a naughty kid.。
It was his cry of loneliness.。
It is sometimes true for us too.。
When there is a hurt or a pain, we want to give it a quick fix.。
Maybe we want to scroll our phone for 3 or 4 hours at night.。
Maybe we want to go shopping.。
Maybe we want to watch something that we're not supposed to watch or read.。
We do all of us to numb that pain away,。
to hide that thing that's hurting us.。
And we do that so that we don't have to face the pain or the loneliness。
or the trouble that was troubling us.。
So back to my student.。
Instead of telling him off, I started to praise him。
for the slightest thing that he did well.。
Maybe he just tucked his feet under his desk,。
and I go, "That's a very considerate thing to do."。
Maybe he was just trying to do things that was easy for himself,。
but I would make sure that he understands,。
"I notice that you're doing well today, and I praise you for it."。
I started to give him class chores。
that requires him to connect with other students.。
And in doing so, he noticed that, "Oh, the way that I am doing now,。
the way that I'm connecting with my classmates now,。
it's a good thing.。
I'm still connecting. I can make friends.。
And yet I'm helping the school as well."。
And so not only he stopped those undesirable behavior,。
he helped me to lead the class to cooperate with me.。
So as we gather in church,。
do we make an effort to notice those that are in need?。
Do we notice those who are hurting in our community?。
And who can we connect with to restore?。
And the fact is, sometimes we are the one who needs to be restored.。
No one can be sure that they can stay strong and perfect forever.。
We need a loving community,。
a community that we can trust to give us direction。
and to tell us the truth that sets us free.。
So not only are we to reach out,。
it is equally important for us to let people in.。
And I know how challenging it is。
to stay behind a little bit longer after service.。
I know it is tiring and draining to start all those small talks。
at the beginning of a relationship or a friendship.。
I know that because I've experienced it before.。
Before I come to this church, before I go to any churches,。
I went to a church in Fanling,。
and it took me three years to let me feel at ease at that community.。
Three years. That's 52 weeks times three.。
It was hard. I mean, to step into a church where I know no one。
and I feel like I don't belong,。
and to know that maybe that person doesn't want to talk to me,。
maybe I was not good enough to talk to that person.。
It was very tough for me to reach out and to talk to those people.。
So I know how challenging it is.。
However, Paul encouraged us to connect,。
how our body connects together.。
As we live a spirit-led life, we are to be connected。
so that if we fall into sin, we have people that know us,。
we have people that we trust to hear the cries of our heart。
and to be restored.。
So I encourage you to stay behind at the church today.。
There's a bring-your-own-lunch today that is a fantastic opportunity。
for us just to eat, share a meal, and talk to people。
that is in the same community as you are.。
A spirit-led life leads you to a spirit-led community.。
In some ways, you can't be loving on your own.。
God doesn't give you love so that you can love the four walls of the church.。
But He gives you love so that you could pour into the people。
that are sitting next to you.。
You can pour into the body of Christ.。
Therefore, that's why in the second verse, Paul continues his thought。
by saying that, "Carry each other's burden, and in this way,。
you will fulfill the law of Christ.。
If anyone thinks there's something when there are not,。
they deceive themselves."。
And what is the law of Christ?。
In Galatians 5:14, Paul said, "For the entire law is fulfilled。
in keeping this one commandment."。
Love your neighbor as yourself.。
Love your neighbor as yourself.。
And I hope that when you come into church today,。
you know who your neighbors are.。
In the story of the Good Samaritans, Jesus has told us who our neighbors are.。
The neighbors are the person that sits next to you.。
The neighbor is the person God opens your eyes to notice.。
Your neighbor is the one that God has put into your heart and say,。
"I remember this person.。
I know God has placed me in this church for a reason and for a matter。
because there's someone that God wants me to love on, to connect with.。
That this person sitting next to me is not a chore for me to connect with him.。
It is because God has put this person next to me in my life。
so that when I'm in need, when I have burdens in my heart,。
when I'm carrying heavy stuff, I can reach out to someone that I know."。
God wants you to open up your heart and to let people in.。
And I said that I was an introvert.。
It took me three years to feel at ease at that church, and I finally did.。
And it's not because of a miracle.。
It's not because suddenly I wake up one day and go, "God, I'm ready now.。
Finally, I feel I'm happy.。
I feel like an extrovert, and I can go and connect at this church."。
No, it was because I was in that community,。
and the people sitting next to me, my peers, they were relentless,。
and they were persistent.。
No matter how many times I've rejected them and said no to meals and gatherings,。
they still invite me.。
They still come up to me and say, "Jun, I want you to be here.。
I know that you'll feel loved here.。
Don't leave. Don't go to the door. Stay away from the door."。
And that has helped me to be connected.。
They saw me, and they reached out to me.。
And so I was in that church for over 10 years when God led me to the Vine.。
I was a different person then.。
I was able to go to a new church alone and start to make friends。
because I know that I'm loved back at my family church.。
I still remember the day when I set foot in the Vine Church in Wan Chai.。
In a room full of people, I felt like I'm ready to head back out again.。
But the love I've received reminded me that I am worthy,。
that there will be people who wanted to be friends with me.。
And with that thought in mind, I stayed.。
And when you see me now talking and reaching out to people,。
it's not because I can.。
It was because the spirit that gives me joy, the strength, and the boldness。
helped me through it.。
And don't wait for that feeling to come.。
Because when we say in the Galatian that we believe and we trust in the God。
that loves you and sees you, that you've got to trust that He will provide you。
with the people that reaches out to you.。
And so you need to step out before you have the feeling.。
And that is the trust and faith that God is calling us to be in.。
And so let's read verse 2 and verse 5 together.。
"Carry others' burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ.。
If anyone thinks they are something when they are not, they deceive themselves.。
Each one should test their own actions, then they can take pride in themselves。
alone, without comparing themselves to someone else,。
for each one should carry their own load."。
Paul assumes that the Galatians will have burdens.。
Burdens are unavoidable.。
They may come in the form of mental illnesses or physical illnesses,。
financial crisis, addictions, or family issues.。
But one thing for sure, no one will escape the feeling of weight of such problem.。
Because Jesus said, "You will have suffering in this world."。
Paul not only assumes that we have burdens, but that we cannot carry all of our own burden.。
Certainly, we must first cast our burdens onto our God,。
because He knows it and He will sustain us.。
And of course, Jesus bore our burdens on the cross when He died for us in our place.。
But we are also instructed to share our trials and struggles with other believers.。
The ministry of burden-bearing is not just a suggestion that you can,。
if you don't want it, you don't have to.。
It's not a suggestion.。
It is not reserved for pastors.。
To be an obedient Christian, operating under the control of the Spirit,。
you must help others carry their burdens.。
And this is what it meant to love, and this is what it meant to be church.。
I think it needs no explanation when we want to help others with carrying burdens.。
We can think of many ways to help, as small as setting the room up for church events,。
or a meal for people who need time to rest and heal,。
running errands for single parents, and all of these are important and necessary.。
But there are also intangible ways that we can carry each other's burden.。
When I was in Australia, I had to share a room with three other girls.。
One of the girls had a hard time keeping her room tidy.。
A lot of parents could run a song with that.。
My daughter is like that too.。
My spouse is like that too.。
But actually, that was a little bit extreme.。
Her room was messy to the point that we can't walk in her room.。
And it was a burden.。
It was a burden for her, and we could go, "Hey, you know, tidy up your room and just leave it at that."。
But many years later, she shared with us that the way that we helped her。
was actually not helping her to clean her room.。
If we actually do that, she'll feel that she's not good enough.。
The way we support her was just to sit down and talk to her and hear her problem.。
The way we help her was to accept that, "Oh, you have an issue that you need to deal with."。
It was not because physically you can't do it, but something was burdening in your heart,。
and I know that you can't do it not because you don't want to.。
And so she shared with us, because we're doing that, she felt accepted and she was motivated.。
And that acceptance we gave her, the listening ears when she is able to talk,。
helped her and encouraged her to do the next step.。
So some can help physically, but some can also help by giving time,。
and all of us could do something to help carry each other's burden.。
And we should do it as a community, each doing what we're able to do。
and share the joy as we serve one another.。
And I can see how someone looking at this verse and go,。
"Oh, don't these two verses contradict for themselves?。
One says, 'Carry each other's burden,' and the other said, 'You need to carry your own load.'。
Doesn't those two verses contradict each other?"。
But the Greek text helps it here.。
The two different words for burden are used in these two verses.。
Paul uses the term 'barrels' in verse 2.。
We can look at the next slide.。
Paul uses the term 'barrels' in verse 2, meaning a weight or a heavy load,。
but he uses the word 'photion' in verse 5, referring to a soldier's backpack.。
The meaning is clear, that some things in life are so heavy that we cannot bear them alone.。
Other matters in life are the equivalent of what you might carry in a backpack.。
So which one is which?。
Which of the things I'm carrying is a burden that I can share with others?。
And what are some of the loads that I have to carry that is my responsibility?。
Well, I can give you two examples to see if you can discern these two.。
The first one, a single parent who's trying to make his or her own end meet,。
and the kid falls ill and needs someone to take him to the doctor.。
And the second example is that a single parent who's also trying to make ends meet,。
but bought a luxurious item and is using his money irresponsibly.。
And we go, "Oh, I know, the first one is a burden,。
and the second one is the load that she or he needs to take up responsibility and put his act together."。
But however, life is not as clear-cut as that.。
Remember when I mentioned that our action was a reflection of our hearts?。
We see the action of spending recklessly.。
We make a judgment and say that this is a load that this person needs to carry.。
However, without getting to know that person or listen to this person well,。
we might dismiss the fact that this action is a cry from something that is happening in the heart.。
He or she needs to carry the load of making wise financial decisions,。
but we should help carry the burden of what is happening internally。
by getting to know that person and listening to that person.。
There is a scene at the end of the film version of Tolkien's book, Return of the King.。
Has anyone watched that movie before, The Return of the King?。
It was a really good movie.。
Frodo, who was close to completing the task of dropping the evil ring in the fire.。
Once the evil ring is dropped in the fire, it is destroyed, the whole drama is finished,。
he's about to do that, but he was too tired and too worn to walk up the mountain.。
And so his loyal friend Sam says with tears and passion,。
"Come, Mr. Frodo, I can't carry the ring for you, but I can carry you."。
He proceeds to help him up the mountain so Frodo can end the drama once and for all.。
Spirit-led believers help the brothers and sisters carry the burden that crushed them.。
This is the picture that Paul is trying to paint for what it is like to be a spirit-led community.。
There is no place for condemnation.。
We are here to restore.。
We're not here to be independent individuals.。
We are called to walk together, support each other, and point each other to Christ.。
And if that is the picture Paul is painting and telling us what it is like to be a spirit-led community,。
are we allowing ourselves to be in one?。
Are we willing to call this place our home church?。
Are we willing to take root not only in the Word of God, but also the people that God has placed us in?。
Paul then--Jesus then told us in the Last Supper on earth,。
He said, "Love one another as I have told you, so that you must--so you must love one another.。
By this, everyone will know that you are my disciples, if you love one another."。
Let us be known by the way we love.。
Let us be a spirit-led community by the way we allowed us to be known and known,。
and to serve and to be served.。
And I'd like to welcome the worship team back to the stage,。
and I would like you to participate to demonstrate what God has been speaking to you.。
Could you all stand up?。
Let's pray.。
Dear Father, we thank you that you have put a spirit in our heart.。
We thank you that in all the worries and burdens and turbulations in this world,。
you have given us an anchor in our heart.。
And so that when things are happening on the inside, we can be sure that we have you.。
And we thank you that because you are with us, that we know that we are seen and we are heard.。
And so Lord, I just bring up all the burdens that this community is carrying right now.。
Whether in life you are carrying the burden of a financial decision,。
or you are carrying the burden of family members, or sickness,。
or someone that is bothering you in your mind.。
And I just pray that these burdens, we are going to lift them up together。
through our prayers, through our worship.。
Our worship is not the singing of voices as Chapman was saying earlier.。
Our worship was our faith singing to you.。
That we know that the burdens here is actually something that you can carry.。
You are bigger than the burdens that we are carrying.。
You are bigger and higher and more loving than the burdens and the troubles that are worrying us.。
And so we lift them all up to you.。
Father, I pray that as we come together to worship you, we come together to pray with each other.。
That the Spirit that you have given us is going to help us to lead into a Spirit led community.。
That we are not coming here to make friends.。
We are here to come to be brothers and sisters in Christ.。
We are coming over here to know that we are a body of Christ.。
That if one body hurts, we know and we see and we notice.。
That when we come together, we are able to listen to each other and pray for each other.。
Knowing that the Christ in us is going to listen to our prayer and answer.。
That the burden that we are carrying that is crushing us, we can share with the person that is reaching out next to us.。
Father, I pray that it is hard to build community.。
It is hard to make friends.。
But nothing is hard in your eyes.。
Nothing is hard in the Spirit of God.。
And so I pray for this community that anyone that feels timid, that anyone has been hurt before,。
that you are going to lift up those worries, that you are going to remove those bad experiences.。
Give us a fresh, your Spirit, so that we are able to reach out once again.。
That there is new relationship starting in this community.。
That we are going to see each other as brothers and sisters.。
That we will listen and we'll know that you are with us.。
That your love is our bond between each other.。
I pray for a sense of security in this place.。
I pray a blessing over this place.。
That you are with us.。
[MUSIC]。
