Amen. Thank you so much Pastor Chapman. It's so good to be here. So good to be back in Yuen Long。
Church. This is home for me as well. So I spent quite a bit of time here and I spent quite a bit。
of time in Wan Chai because I'm still an elder in Wan Chai as well. But it's always so good。
to be here to see some familiar faces but to also see some new faces. So excited to be back here.。
So we've been in an Uncharted series. If you've been coming we've been in the Book of Acts for a。
couple of weeks now and today we are continuing in that Uncharted series and today we're going。
to be talking about times of refreshing. So I'm going to start by reading from Acts 3 verse 11。
to 26. So it's quite a lot of scripture but let's try and take it all in. Amen. Okay so it says,。
"Now as the lame man who was healed held on to Peter and John, all the people ran together to。
them in the porch which is called Solomon's. Greatly amazed." So if you were here last week。
you would have heard the story about the lame man who was healed but today we are continuing the。
story in Acts 3 verse 11 to 26 and then it says, "So when Peter saw it he responded to the people,。
'Men of Israel, why do you marvel at this or why look so intently at us as though by our own power。
or godliness we have made this man walk? The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our。
fathers glorified his servant Jesus whom you delivered up and denied in the presence of Pilate。
when he was determined to let him go. But you denied the Holy One and the just and asked for a。
murderer to be granted to you and killed the Prince of Life whom God raised from the dead of。
which we are witnesses and his name through faith in his name has made this man strong whom you see。
and know. Yes faith which comes through him has given him this perfect soundness in the presence。
of you all. Yet now brethren I know that you did it in ignorance as you did also your rulers.。
But those things which God foretold by the mouth of all his prophets that the Christ would suffer。
he has thus fulfilled. Repent therefore and be converted that your sins may be blotted out。
so that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord." So this is where our。
topic is coming from. "So that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord and that。
he may send Jesus Christ who was preached to you before whom heaven must receive until the times。
of restoration of all things which God has spoken by the mouth of his holy prophets since the world。
began." Let's continue it's a big chunk of scripture but we need to go through it all so。
that we can fully understand what we want to talk about this morning. "For those for Moses truly。
said to the fathers the Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brethren。
him you shall hear in all things whatever he says to you and it shall it shall be that every soul。
who will not hear that prophet shall be utterly destroyed from among the people. Yes and all the。
prophets from Samuel and those who follow as many as have spoken have also foretold these days.。
You are sons of the prophets and of the covenant which God made with our father saying to Abraham。
and in your seed all the families of the earth shall be blessed to you first God having raised。
up his servant Jesus sent him to bless you and in turning away every one of you from your iniquities."。
Amen. So again we are continuing in the book of Acts and we've been talking about uncharted season。
and so we know that the early church has come from the first covenant when Jesus Christ died。
and rose again we entered into a new covenant and so the children of Israel have been in the old。
covenant for a very long time they've been used to doing things a certain way worse than that for。
about 400 years between the last prophets in Malachi when he was talking about the coming of。
Jesus and people repenting and all this there were 400 years of what they called the silent years。
400 years of the silent years waiting for a messiah and they had imagined what it would look。
like when he came they were under Roman rule currently and in their minds they had now。
thought when the messiah comes he's coming with military power they had no idea that this was。
going to be spiritual it was going to look different so when Jesus does come with a second。
covenant they're not ready for it it's an uncharted season it's a way they've never been but their。
hearts are not ready for it so today Peter comes and begins to point out when their hearts are a。
bit open when they see a miracle he says you see what you are seeing right now it is the same Jesus。
who you have denied before he saw an uncharted opportunity and all of us will see uncharted。
opportunities in this uncharted season but we need to be ready for it before we can go out there and。
preach repentance God usually does an inward work within us first if we look back in。
John 21 in the last chapter of John where Jesus appeared to the disciples when they had returned。
fishing we most of us know the story and Peter is restored back to Jesus after Peter had denied。
Jesus three times if we remember Peter had denied Jesus three times but when Jesus rose again from。
the dead he begins to appear to the disciples so this time he appears to them and they've gone back。
to what they used to because they're thinking oh maybe this is the end Jesus comes and he restores。
Peter he says if you love me feed my flock he says three times to really restore him because he had。
denied three times from that moment then Jesus before he leaves he says wait for the Holy Spirit。
who will empower you to go out and make disciples of all nations when this happens they receive the。
power of the Holy Spirit that we've been talking about before and they are empowered in an uncharted。
season Peter first had to be restored before he could go out in an uncharted season to begin to。
affect the changes in in his community you know and this reminds me of a dream a couple of dreams。
I had but it reminds me during the fast last year in January you know we usually in the vine church。
we have a 21 day fast and so I was participating in that fast and initially I usually just like。
you know repent and I'm like oh God you know it's like Psalm 30 139 uh search me oh God and。
and show if there's any wicked way with me and I'm thinking I'm just going to be repenting for a day。
or two and for every single day of that 21 day fast God was shedding light on some things in my。
heart or in other people's heart and I got to the point I remember one day when I was sitting there。
I was in fact I was I was sleeping so I had a dream and this dream was not even about my own sin。
but it was about somebody else's sin but God was shedding light on that and I remember feeling this。
heaviness you know there's a weight that comes with sin and for the first time in my life I began。
to see sin the way God sees it I had such a weight and I remember waking up and beginning to wail。
wailing is a lot of crying right I began to wail and I said God who who can be clean before you。
I sat on my bed and I began to cry seeing the weight of sin on me but in that crying out to God。
I began to repent not only for what he had been showing me about myself but what he had been。
showing me about the sins of other people I said I don't want this person to be lost I don't want。
this person to be living in this kind of bondage I don't want this person to you know God had put。
that on the inside of me and I began to cry that day but then there was a lifting there was a。
lifting after I truly repented from the depth of my heart there was a lifting of that weight。
and the time of refreshing came upon me suddenly I had a peace in my heart and that weight had been。
removed and I remember and in true fashion of what God does a couple of weeks ago as I was began to。
prepare for the message today God started shedding some light on my heart again and I was like oh。
open heart surgery that's what I call it I'm like open heart surgery again it's never fun。
when you get into it but when you come out of it you feel so much better so he's not shedding。
light on in on my heart again and and because I cannot preach what I have not experienced。
so God usually does that to us Pastor Ivan I'm sure you know about it and a lot of other preachers。
um but you know he began to to shed light on my heart and I had this dream which got me woke。
when I woke up I was shaking you know literally I was shaking because I knew I had been in the。
presence of God and one of the things that he said to me he began to show me two scenarios。
where I had been offended and instead of bringing it to God I had responded in my flesh so immediately。
I had a knee-jerk response in those two scenarios and I began to respond to those people and he。
showed me that in the dream and he said this statement really struck me in my heart he says。
yes you won but should you not have kept the integrity of your heart。
yes you won but should you not have kept the integrity of your heart a lot of the sins that。
God was showing me a lot of the time when it is happening I don't even think it's a big deal。
that is what happens with the sins of the heart you know the outward sins it's so easy yes I lied。
yes I fornicate yes I you know it's so easy to recognize but the sins of the heart are not as。
easy to recognize sometimes you you feel so justified yes you're angry and it's okay to be。
angry but what did you do with that anger yes I got offended and I got hurt but what did you do。
with that hurt did you take it to God or you used it you you responded immediately in your flesh。
and hurt other people we cannot give out what we do not have so we need to be refreshed first。
before we can go out and compel others to receive the same times of refreshing we are talking about。
today we want to talk about our hearts because before we go out there we ourselves need to。
repent we need to be healed we need to be restored and we need to receive these times of refreshing。
you see Peter points out that people had rejected Jesus out of ignorance when we look back in the。
Bible we see Jesus talking about their hard hearts this is why they had not received Jesus their。
hearts had hardened over time it's a you know there's a song I used to listen to he says it's。
a slow fade so it's a slow fade it's item after item it's not like I just wake up and my heart is。
now hardened it's the things that are affecting our hearts constantly that before we know it。
we have reached a place where we cannot receive fully from God because our hearts have hardened。
the children of Israel had lived in a certain way for so long that their hearts had hardened。
if we read from John 12 verse 37 to 40 he says but despite all the miraculous signs Jesus had done。
most of the people still did not believe in him this is exactly what Isaiah the prophet had。
predicted Lord who has believed our message to whom has the Lord revealed his powerful arm but。
the people couldn't believe for as Isaiah also said the people has blinded their eyes the Lord。
has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts so that their eyes cannot see and their hearts。
cannot understand and they cannot turn to me and have me heal them it is difficult to receive from。
God when our hearts are hard it is difficult to be led in an uncharted season when our hearts are。
hard it is difficult to even see what God is doing in the season with hardened hearts。
when we look at these passages we always wonder I always wonder right when I read the Bible I don't。
know if you guys do that I always wonder like how could they be doing that like how were the children。
of Israel not noticing it was the Messiah how were they but when we really look at our hearts and we。
say God shine your light on my heart we realize we are also the same in many ways could it be that。
our own hearts have also hardened in parts and we can also not hear clearly from God during this。
uncharted season what do we also have to get rid of in this uncharted season to be refreshed。
today we want to look at some of the things that harden our hearts not it's not an exhaustive list。
but some of the things God was pointing at me that harden our hearts so that we can also receive。
these times of refreshing and when we go out there like Peter we can take the opportunities。
that God presents to us so the first thing that God showed me was hope deferred if we look at。
Proverbs 13 verse 12 it says hope deferred makes the heart sick but a dream fulfilled is a tree of。
life hope deferred makes the heart sick but a dream fulfilled is a tree of life they had waited。
the children of Israel had waited 400 years waiting for a Messiah we don't know maybe God。
was speaking but none of that speaking was recorded in the Bible 400 years of silence。
maybe you are experiencing the same thing you say I've been praying for the same thing for such a。
long time and it seems God is not answering but the truth of the matter is a lot of things take。
time a lot of the prayers we want all the a lot of the promises that God has given us they take time。
if we actually look in Galatians 4 verse 4 to 5 it says but when the fullness of time had come。
God sent forth his son born of a woman when the fullness of time has come so it actually means。
God actually appointed the time Jesus came he actually knew there would be 400 years of silence。
so it wasn't like you were surprised or it was like oh you know maybe it was supposed to take。
two years and then it took 400 no it says at the appointed time Jesus came so he knew the children。
of Israel were meant to wait 400 years he wasn't surprised about that but we always think God has。
forgotten me I've been praying for the same thing for five years God has forgotten me God is not。
answering my prayers but if we look back in the Bible we realize many people waited for a long。
time for promises to come to pass there's some things that are answered instantly but some things。
take long and God uses that period of waiting to build our characters he uses that period of waiting。
for us to be molded into the people who are supposed to be for our assignments he uses that。
period of waiting to build our faith he uses that period of waiting so we can minister to other。
people who are also in the same waiting a lot of the time we lose our faith because of hope deferred。
a lot of the time we say God didn't give me that job and a part of us hardens a lot of the time we。
say God has not given me a husband or a wife or children and part of our hearts harden a lot of。
the time we justify even our sins because we say if God had given me this then I would not be in。
this place and our hearts begin to harden but God is saying throughout the Bible he is saying wait。
on me if you see many scriptures even Psalm 137 it says wait patiently for the Lord so it's not。
like God is surprised that your promise is taking long to come he says wait patiently for the Lord。
do not fret Psalm 37 says do not fret don't get angry wait patiently for the Lord there is。
something that is happening in our hearts in that period of waiting but in that period of waiting。
what determines how our hearts will be is the way we respond in that waiting sometimes God wants us。
to learn a lesson in that waiting and a lot of the time when I'm going through difficult times I'm。
praying and nothing seems to be shifting I'm like God what is the lesson in this waiting what am I。
supposed to be learning in this waiting my brothers and sisters let us not let our hearts be hardened。
in the waiting let us not let our hearts be hardened in the waiting when we look at men。
like Joseph David Moses Abraham even women like Sarah who waited for decades even for the promise。
to come to pass we have to believe God they believed he was faithful they believed that God。
was faithful in that watch what he has promised no matter what the situation is now looking like。
it's dead they believed he was faithful and it would come to pass through many hardships they。
remained faithful to God believing him to be faithful we need to pray today and repent for。
when our hearts have hardened we need to be healed today we need to pray for healing because many of。
our hearts have become sick in Proverbs 13 it says hope deferred makes the heart sick for many of us。
we need to pray today say heal my heart Lord my heart is hardened and my heart has become sick。
the second thing is offense and hurt like me in my dream I had been offended and God says it's not。
wrong to be offended all of us will be offended at some point all of us will be hurt at some point。
if you attended the conference the justice conference over the last two days。
the one thing I realized is everyone is hurting some somewhere somehow we get hurt。
but what we do with that hurt is what matters in Colossians 3 verse 12 to 15 it says since God。
chose you to be the holy people he loves you must close yourselves with tender-hearted mercy。
kindness humility gentleness and patience make allowance for each other's faults and forgive。
anyone who offends you remember the Lord forgave you so you must forgive others above all close。
yourselves with love which binds us all together in perfect harmony and let the peace that comes。
from Christ rule in your hearts for as members of one body you are called to live in peace。
and always be thankful Luke 6 verse 27 to 28 also says but to you who are willing to listen I say。
love your enemies do good to those who hate you bless those who curse you pray for those who hurt。
you amen that is that is quite difficult I mean like the the scripture in Luke 6 is it's not easy。
we can only do this by the Holy Spirit that's why we've been learning about the book of Acts。
that the Holy Spirit came right and filled the people we cannot do this in our flesh to hate。
your enemy you know interesting today I think it was last week I was looking at my my whatsapp。
statuses and I saw one person and they had like it was a funny thing they had many versions of。
the Bible here and saying they're looking at every version to really mean to see if in the Greek in。
the Hebrew whatever it really said love your enemies amen they were trying to get an excuse。
not to love their enemies but that's what the Bible says they're like oh man anyway and I'm sure。
many of us have thought about that oh man when you are not in offense you can think oh I can。
love my enemies when you are in that place of hurt you're like really can I just slap them instead。
it's not wrong to feel offended but it's what we do with it。
in an uncharted season。
there will be offense as well maybe even within the church。
but what do we do with that hurt and offense we're supposed to take it to God amen we're not。
meant to keep a grudge because what happens is that we lose our faith when we've got offense。
we start focusing on the offender instead of on God。
we start magnifying the offense instead of magnifying God today pastor Chapman was saying。
we lift up the name of Jesus you start lifting up the offense instead of lifting up God。
you start praying amiss you can actually start praying for the demise of someone amen。
and we shouldn't be doing that we should be praying blessings over them God。
let them be converted if they're not converted let them be converted if they're not converted。
let them see your truth and also praying for your own heart because in that moment when we have offense。
our heart can also begin to harden。
some of us are not even speaking to family members we've broken off friendships。
at work we're not speaking to colleagues because of hurt and offense at the conference at the。
justice conference yesterday I was just telling a couple of people here before the service。
I went to Dr. Lama and she's a Palestinian Christian and I went to her session in the。
afternoon and she was talking about lament it was such a deep a very raw session where we were。
lamenting about our hurts to God and what I realized is everyone is hurting even your enemy is hurting。
maybe they're just as offended as you or maybe they're hurting about some other trauma in their。
childhood everybody is hurting in different ways and sometimes when we don't even bring it to God。
he doesn't even show us what are the underlying issues what is the reason why that person offended。
you but we need to come before God and pray for that healing amen we need to come before God and。
pray for that healing and the third thing is bitterness and unforgiveness very similar to。
offense and hurt but in Hebrews 12 verse 15 it says look after each other so that none of you。
fails to receive the grace of God watch out that no poisonous root of bitterness grows up to you。
corrupting many similar to offense unforgiveness can lead to a root of bitterness bitterness is。
when we sit so long in unforgiveness it starts affecting us deeply you know I was looking at。
some studies that at the time when I was just praying about bitterness and everything and God。
began to and and this person to show that there are studies that have linked bitterness to sicknesses。
some people when they have forgiven then the sickness goes bitterness is such a deep thing。
that's why the Bible is calling it poisonous it poisons us from the inside out you know there was。
bitterness makes us cynical we become negative people have you been around negative people very。
negative everything you say they are sapping your energy because they're just saying negative things。
and sometimes we become bitter about our situations we can become bitter about our family。
members we can become bitter about our workplaces about our cities about the countries we are from。
about so many things about the world politics I mean it's so easy to become bitter right now right。
there's so much happening but when you become cynical how do you know you are getting a root。
of bitterness whatever you constantly speaking negative about maybe you need to bring that to God。
amen all the time I remember during the 21 days fast last year that I was talking about God says。
you're becoming you're becoming cynical I said really and he began to show me the negative。
things I had been speaking about certain things and I said oh my gosh God can you heal me in that。
area can you remove that root of bitterness can you uproot it from me and we want to bring that。
before God today and say Lord we want your peace and your healing I don't want to look walk around。
sapping people's energy with my cynicism I want to be a tree of life I want to bring light we are。
supposed to be bringing the refreshing presence of God and not the opposite sapping people's energy。
people should say there's something different about this person there's something we are all。
being negative at work but this one is always coming with something different we should not。
be like the world we are in the world but not off it we should be bringing something different。
and not and sometimes we don't even have to preach a gospel to them somebody will look at us and say。
they're different they're so loving they're so different I need what they have and the last。
thing we're going to the last point we're going to talk about is sin that's quite obvious right。
sin hardens our heart and the work that Jesus Christ did on the cross was enough for us to。
be cleansed to be healed to be forgiven and to find peace and times of refreshing but many of。
the times through shame and guilt we run away from the very person who can help us with the burden of。
sin when we constantly sin when we constantly doing the same thing what happens is that we。
our conscious become seared when what it means by your conscious become serious it means as you。
continue doing it doesn't seem so bad you know when the first time you're doing it it's like oh。
this is so bad God forgive me after a while you're like oh there's nothing wrong with it I'm okay。
I think God is okay with it you know he's not striking me down dead you know he's still coming。
through many miracles coming through so he must be okay with it our conscious becomes seared right。
we we stop seeing the and and the between the lines between wrong and and right and wrong become。
very blurred it becomes a very gray area and we start we don't even realize it but our hearts are。
hardened our hearts are being hardened in the middle of our consciousness becoming seared。
we need the holy spirit to lift that burden of sin off of us and bring us times of refreshing。
in Psalm 51 David says restore to me the joy of your salvation before you know it sin takes away。
the joy of our salvation the burden is too heavy a lot of the time what happens if we do some things。
repeatedly we go into bondage right we go into strongholds addictions so many things but God。
wants to lift that burden off of us whatever it takes whether you have to pray with someone walk。
with someone whatever it takes we need God to go to before God to get the burden of sin lifted off。
of us in Hosea 10 verse 12 it says I said plant the good seeds of righteousness and you will。
harvest a crop of love plow up the hard grounds of your hearts for now is the time to seek the。
Lord that he may come and shower righteousness upon you some versions of the Bible they say。
plow up your fellow ground right the fellow ground of your the parts of our hearts that have hardened。
God is saying you need to make an effort to plow it up so that we can be able to be receiving the。
word of God so that we can be productive in fact fellow ground actually means a hardened and。
unproductive heart when our hearts have hardened they're unproductive to God but we want to go。
before God and say God help me plow up the fellow ground of my heart the areas that have been hurt。
the areas that have been in pain the areas of unforgiveness the areas of offense the sin in my。
life plow up those areas so that I can be productive to you in an uncharted season we are meant to be。
productive in an uncharted season we are meant to be going out in our communities influencing them。
for Christ leading them to him but when our hearts are hardened we become unproductive。
similar to the parable of the sower where the seed fell on the wayside if we live with unrepentant。
sin for a long time we stop hearing the word of God in fact it is stolen by the enemy and it is。
unproductive today no matter what has hardened our hearts I call us to repent today I call us to seek。
healing today and be restored to Jesus so that we may experience the times of refreshing to be ready。
to do God's bidding in this uncharted season we need to be able to be open with our hearts and。
say search me oh Lord and show me if there's any wicked way in me maybe it's pride maybe there's。
so many different things show me if there's any wicked way in me and restore to me the joy of my。
salvation amen I just want us to go before God today and begin to pray just a time of prayer。
just us and God and just be honest with God he already knows the condition of our hearts。
but I just want us to be honest with God and begin to pray。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
