Good morning, how's everyone doing?。
Good to see you guys again.。
My name's Justin from Wan Chai Church,。
and I'll share a bit more later.。
But recently, our family, I'm an only child,。
and we had a health scare in our family,。
so I flew back to Canada where my parents are,。
and I was chatting with my dad about what it feels like。
to be at the last season of your life.。
My dad's healthy now, but he's 85,。
and so through our conversation,。
we just, I kind of just listened to him,。
and throughout the conversation,。
I hear him share about his regrets,。
you know, what he wish he'd done, what he hadn't done,。
and it's really fascinating, and it makes me think,。
well, you know, all of us have regrets,。
all of us experience regrets.。
I wonder, once we get to that stage in life,。
what kind of regrets I might have,。
what regrets you might have.。
And thinking about that, I looked up。
what regrets do people have at the end of their life,。
and actually, a really well-known hospice nurse,。
someone who takes care of the terminally ill,。
who is with people in the last stages of life,。
she was interviewed and asked,。
hey, what are the top regrets that people have,。
and I wanna just share it with you.。
Is this too dark, or is it okay?。
All right, I'm just gonna go on.。
So these are what people say as their top five regrets.。
They wish that they'd been more loving。
to the people who matter most.。
They wish that they'd been a better spouse,。
parent, or child.。
They wish that they had not spent so much time working,。
and that they would enjoy life more and taken more risks.。
They wish they had taken better care of themselves,。
and also, they wish that they had chosen。
more meaningful work.。
Now, I don't know if these regrets surprise you or not,。
but what actually surprised me was,。
I'm surprised that there are no mention of forgiveness.。
You know, the fact that, oh, I wish I'd forgiven more,。
I wish I spent more time in my life。
reconciling with the people I hurt,。
and so in my preparation for today,。
we are in the series of Joseph.。
We're still thinking about the story of Joseph.。
These regrets reminded me that the overarching。
story of Joseph has everything to do with finishing well,。
and finishing well means to be able to forgive,。
because as humans, we actually need forgiveness.。
We need to know that we can be reconciled,。
that we can be forgiven for everything we've done.。
It's both an urgent need, it's a necessity,。
and it's so important, and so Joseph's life。
reminds us that the journey of forgiveness。
and reconciliation, which is what we're gonna。
talk about today, has to be one of our greatest。
spiritual concerns and responsibilities before we die.。
This is important because if we read the Bible,。
we know that Jesus says, he commands us。
to forgive one another, no matter how many times。
we hurt each other, to learn to forgive,。
because the Lord has forgiven us,。
therefore, we're gonna try to do that.。
And so our great Christian concern,。
and our journey and responsibility is the following,。
is to make every effort, three things.。
One, forgive those who hurt us,。
forgive ourselves and the mistakes that we have made,。
and to take time to wrestle with God,。
and just bring to him and say to him,。
you know what, life is unfair.。
I don't understand life because it's unjust,。
but yet, to wrestle and come to a point。
where we know that God is in the midst。
of our unforgiveness, God sits with us in our pain.。
And so when we forgive, why do we need to forgive?。
Well, just a short answer is, you know,。
this world is broken, we know that, we are broken,。
but when a living God does work in broken people like us,。
and people see that we're not gonna retaliate,。
we're not gonna avenge ourselves,。
there is hope for this world.。
And so this morning, I wanna focus。
on the grand narrative of Joseph's life.。
I want us to appreciate, in the short time that we have,。
I want us to appreciate, you know, he suffered much,。
he went through a lot of loss,。
he was traumatized by everything he'd gone through,。
but yet, Joseph remained a Christian,。
he continued, allowed God to use him。
to change the world, literally,。
and of course, at the end of his life, he died well, why?。
Because he reconciled with the brothers。
that done so much harm to him,。
and he reconciled with his father,。
and he saw his baby brother, Benjamin, again.。
And so, this is so important,。
and I want to ask two things of us,。
two questions I wanna focus on.。
As we look at Joseph's story, I want us to look at,。
well, how do I, how do you be more intentional。
to forgive and to reconcile,。
knowing that we've been hurt deeply?。
And equally important, I want us to understand,。
at least, starting point today,。
how do I reconcile the unforgiveness in my heart right now?。
And I think all of us have some kind of hatred,。
some kind of guilt, some kind of just sadness。
in what we've experienced through our life。
when it comes to forgiveness and reconciliation.。
And so, I think the steps of forgiveness and reconciliation,。
getting there may look a little different,。
but the end goal is very similar.。
The end goal and the aim of being forgiving,。
to forgive and to be reconciled,。
is to experience some kind of shalom。
in our relationship with God,。
with ourselves, and with one another.。
So, quick story.。
The other day, I was driving home with my eldest son,。
who's right there, and he just started high school.。
And he actually, while we're driving,。
we normally listen to music together,。
and he asked me a question。
that actually threw me off by surprise,。
and it was a wonderful question.。
He asked, "Dad, what regrets do you have in high school?"。
I just thought, wow, where do I begin?。
I have so many regrets.。
But I said to him, "Hey, son, overall, I had a great life.。
"I had a great high school.。
"My parents were good to me.。
"I had good friends.。
"Yeah, I made some mistakes.。
"I did some really stupid things,。
"but overall, it would not change anything.。
"But to answer your question, son,。
"what I regret most was probably the few words。
"I said to two friends.。
"I just said a few words, and that ended our friendship."。
Now, back then, I was overly Christian,。
and so I might have said something really dumb,。
and our friendship never recovered from that.。
And so to this day, I still yearn to reconcile。
with these two friends.。
I message them once every five years。
just to say hi, but silence, which is fine.。
And I think to this day, it still hurts.。
And so three weeks ago, I experienced some kind of healing.。
Something Pastor Andrew said in Wan Chai casually to me.。
He said, "Hey, Justin, whether you're in ministry or not,。
"you're gonna get hurt.。
"You're gonna hurt people."。
I was like, whoa.。
And I think this is what I could not accept.。
All these years, the reason why it stinks so hardly。
is because I refuse to accept the reality。
that we will hurt people.。
But I'm a pastor, I'm a Christian.。
But actually, the reality is,。
whether you're a Christian or not,。
we're gonna hurt people。
as long as we remain in relationships.。
And so today, I want to just start off to remind us。
that none of us are immune to heartaches and uncertainties。
as long as we remain in relationships.。
However, I want to bring hope today.。
And I wanna say, but our decision, our resolve,。
our intention to forgive and to reconcile。
breathes new life into these relational uncertainties。
and the heartaches that we hold right now.。
And so maybe the solution is not to stop sinning.。
The solution isn't just to stay away。
from people who've hurt us.。
But as we mature as Christians,。
I think the point of Christian growth is to discern。
how do we bring our hurt before our living God?。
How do we bring these broken relationships。
before our living God so that the next time we get hurt,。
we spend less time being surprised, angry, shocked,。
and we just deal with it?。
Are you with me?。
So church, this morning, I'm not gonna read,。
I know you guys have gone through a lot of scripture。
through the life of Joseph.。
I'm not gonna read blocks of scripture,。
but I just want you to take one thing。
that Holy Spirit shows you today.。
Okay, just one thing that you feel like God。
is asking you to lean into, to take.。
And I'm gonna come back to that afterwards.。
So this morning, I wanna focus on two aspects。
of Joseph's life that we may easily bypass.。
One, I wanna talk about time.。
And two, I wanna talk about grace.。
I know we talk about that a lot, but walk with me, okay?。
And I want you to think about,。
well, if I'm serious today about forgiveness,。
I want to take another step towards reconciliation.。
I want you to think about this.。
What does time and grace have to say to us today?。
So let me do a summary.。
Now, between the time that Joseph was 17。
to the time he was 30, 30 was the time。
when he got enlisted, right, to serve Pharaoh。
and to change the world, save the world from famine.。
There was around a period of 13 years,。
and these 13 years happened between Genesis 37 and 41,。
and I know you know this 'cause you read your Bible, right?。
And so by that time, between 17 to 30,。
Joseph had already experienced a lot of personal pain,。
a lot of growth through loss, but also a lot of trauma.。
And so let's just start with Joseph's upbringing, right?。
Joseph grew up, he found himself to be the center。
of his brother's hatred, why?。
Because he was his father's favorite, right?。
And I don't know if you know that feeling。
when your boss likes your colleague more,。
or if you grew up in your family and you have other siblings。
and you kind of felt that maybe your parents。
preferred your siblings more,。
and that really goes deep and it stings.。
And so his brothers were jealous of Joseph,。
in a way hated him, but what made it worse。
was Joseph's dream, right?。
Joseph had a dream that said,。
you're gonna bow down to me one day,。
and that just did not help the relationship.。
And so rather than deal with their pain,。
what did their brothers do?。
Let's just get rid of Joseph, right?。
Yeah, that's the best way to do it.。
And so that's what they did.。
They're like, let's throw him in a pit.。
No, no, no, no, actually, let's just sell him.。
Let's just sell him off for some silver.。
All right, agreed, so that's what happened.。
And so fast forward, because the Lord was with Joseph,。
Joseph found himself having favor from God。
and having favor of man,。
he found himself overseeing Potiphar's household.。
But however, once again, unfortunately,。
within a short period,。
Joseph was unexpectedly falsely thrown into prison, why?。
Because he refused to have an affair。
with his master's wife, right?。
Now, this is already a lot to deal with, right?。
And so I wanna just pick up from Genesis 41, verse one,。
and I want us to focus on three words, okay?。
These three words, I spent a lot of time just mulling over.。
These three words says, two years later.。
I just want us to focus on these three words right now.。
Two years later, so before God brought Joseph。
into the courts of Pharaoh to interpret his dream,。
before he was promoted to the second man of all of Egypt,。
Joseph quietly spent two years in jail.。
Now, scripture doesn't say much。
about how he spent the two years,。
but what do you think he thought about?。
You know, if you were Joseph, you spent this two years,。
wouldn't you spend a lot of your time。
thinking about justice?。
Wouldn't you spend a lot of time。
blaming either your brothers or God, maybe?。
And I just wondered, as I was preparing,。
do you think that Joseph knew。
that God was with him in these two years?。
And what is the most profound thing about this verse。
as it relates to the process of forgiveness。
and reconciliation is the aspect of time.。
Because time is something I think many of us struggle with。
because often it is misplaced and it is misused.。
Because the world tells us that, you know, guys,。
we should use our time to cultivate more influence,。
more wealth, more power.。
Spend time to build up your career path。
so that you have something in the future to fall back on.。
Now, this isn't wrong, it's not sinful,。
but when we overly emphasize our use of time like this,。
we lose sight of what is truly important.。
And the most precious, rewarding, and meaningful things。
in God's kingdom all require time.。
You know, to grow in Christ requires,。
to forgive someone, to reconcile requires,。
to know Jesus requires time.。
And so, if you and I, church,。
we are serious about this journey that we are called to take。
then we have to somehow learn to yield our time to God。
because we believe that he will make good use。
of every season of our life.。
And so, Joseph's story, his life throughout Genesis,。
we can see that forgiveness and reconciliation。
works within every season of life,。
even the seasons we don't like.。
So, coming back to us, because we're impatient people,。
I am impatient a lot of times, we demand others to change.。
I don't know if you feel me.。
It's like, Lord, I don't have that much time.。
I can't take so and so, can you just change them please?。
Can you ask them to forgive me。
or can you just get them to just say sorry。
and we can both move on?。
But likewise, I think sometimes out of desperation,。
out of pain, out of just we cannot take it longer,。
we ask God, Lord, would you heal my heart。
so that I don't actually have to deal with it。
'cause I have other things to do.。
You know, and I think humanly speaking,。
it comes to a point where I think all of us。
need to reconcile and accept that no matter how painful,。
how slow, how uncontrollable our seasons of life are,。
that God will work within us to bring about。
the transformation he wills in time.。
And it cannot be rushed.。
For example, for Joseph's brothers,。
how many years did it take for them to come to repentance,。
to realize, oh, you know what, not only did we hurt Joseph,。
we lied to our dad, we told our dad。
that his favorite son was dead.。
You know, and how many years did that take?。
It took around 17 years in God's timing,。
which is not what we would prefer if we had a choice.。
And think about this for a moment for yourselves.。
You know, I'm stubborn, I don't know about you,。
I don't wanna call you stubborn.。
I'm a bit prideful, I don't know about you.。
And so I want you just to think,。
how long does it take for you to admit that you need help?。
How long does it take for you to admit that you're wrong,。
that we are wrong sometimes?。
How long does it take for you to come to a place。
of genuine repentance and say, Lord, I can't change myself,。
I can't change the person in front of me,。
so Lord, would you have a go?。
How long does it take before we can extend。
the same compassion and mercy that God extends us normally?。
The answer, I think, that I want to say is that I know,。
I feel like all of us are often in a hurry。
when it comes to the matters of the heart, but God is not.。
God's way of working is different.。
And so coming back to Joseph,。
how did he spend the two years?。
Well, scripture doesn't say that much,。
but it does say in chapter 41, verse 50 to 20,。
it says that Joseph said, God made me forget。
all my hardships and everything that happened。
in my father's house.。
So that gives me an indication,。
that gives us an indication that he wrestled.。
He must have wrestled between his right to remain angry,。
his right to take avenge, his right to fantasize,。
what I'm gonna do to my brothers when I see him,。
what am I gonna say for the ultimate confrontation?。
But yet we also know when you read about Joseph's life,。
he was a righteous man.。
He, his heart was right,。
even though everything around him was not.。
And so Joseph knew that God's way led to life.。
And so I imagine he gave up his right。
to all the things, to take claim, you know,。
and he probably struggled a lot.。
And I think this is the heart of repentance.。
I think in the two years that Joseph spent in jail,。
in prison, he had to repent, he had to shift his mindset.。
And he had to say, you know what,。
I don't understand any of this, but God does.。
So I'm gonna choose to think what he thinks。
and I'm just gonna go with him.。
And of course we're asking, well, how does he do that?。
You know, I know we're not in prison,。
but I think we are imprisoned by certain thoughts。
and lifestyle choices and certain relationships.。
And so this is the hope.。
It says in Genesis 39, it says this,。
"The Lord was with Joseph,。
"and the Lord showed him steadfast love,。
"so that whatever Joseph did, the Lord blessed him."。
Right, and I think this is the only way I can reconcile,。
we can reconcile how Joseph spent his time.。
Joseph spent these two years quietly。
because the Lord was with him.。
And so he processed his heartache, his loss, his grief,。
everything with the Lord, and this is the Christian life.。
I wanna read you Acts chapter three,。
it's not on the slides, but I wanna read it to you.。
It says, "Repent and turn to God。
"so that your sins may be wiped out,。
"so that times of refreshing may come。
"from the presence of the Lord,。
"so that you may no longer be enslaved."。
So Joseph repented, he shifted his mindset。
to know that, you know what, I'm not in prison。
because the Lord is with me.。
How can it be prison if the Lord is with me?。
I'm gonna turn, I'm gonna give up,。
I'm gonna yield my right to avenge myself, Lord,。
and I'm gonna give you my unforgiveness,。
I'm gonna give you my pain.。
And this first act says, "So that times of refreshing。
"may come from the presence of the Lord."。
And so Joseph, his life, his mindset,。
the weight of his heart was refreshed.。
And so Joseph understood that only over time。
and with the Lord can we attain true growth。
and have clarity in life.。
You know, coming back to what I've done to my friends,。
the few words I said when I was 17,。
now as a 42-year-old man,。
like, of course I wouldn't have said that.。
But it took so many years for me。
to finally have this clarity, to grow,。
thinking, you know what, even though we're Christians。
doesn't mean we should say certain things.。
It doesn't give us the right to say anything we want。
just 'cause the Lord calls us to, right?。
I won't go into that.。
And so, church, I just want to say one more time。
that even if it's two years spent in prison。
or that we are in prison, if the Lord is there,。
then there is your growth and you will have clarity。
and you will be refreshed and blessed。
and you will be able to cope.。
You with me?。
- Yes.。
- So I want to highlight now the second thing, okay?。
The second thing I want to talk about is grace.。
And this happens in Genesis 42 now.。
And this is where the tables have turned。
and Joseph's dream when he was 17,。
the dream that he had actually comes true。
because the famine has started。
and Joseph here finds his brothers now are before him.。
They don't know that he's governor。
but they've come to get food。
because they don't want to die, right?。
His father asked him to come and get food.。
And so let me just pause here。
because Joseph was wronged when he was 17。
and he was powerless.。
But now 20-something years later, 16, 20 years later,。
he is one of the most powerful men in the world.。
Now, if you were in Joseph's shoes,。
I think you and I would probably act or think similarly.。
And so Joseph had every chance to avenge himself。
because he had the power to show them.。
He had the power to punishment,。
to punish them and to retaliate.。
But why I love the story of Joseph。
and probably why we are studying the life of Joseph。
is because he chose an altogether different way of living.。
He chose forgiveness, he chose reconciliation,。
and in the end, he had no regrets in life。
because he reconciled with his family.。
And so through Joseph's willingness to forgive。
and through the grace and the divine working of God,。
his brothers repented, confronted their sin,。
their father and Benjamin, all of them were reunited.。
And so Joseph's story encouraged us。
not only is to imagine and to hope for forgiveness,。
but actually when we look at Joseph's life,。
forgiveness and reconciliation is possible.。
It is a reality.。
And I think there is truth here.。
And I think Apostle Paul, he articulates this。
many, many, many years later,。
something that probably Joseph already knew to be true.。
And it's Romans chapter two, verse four.。
Do you not realize that God's kindness。
is meant to lead us to repentance?。
So church, today, if you are struggling to forgive,。
if you find yourself that it is hard to reconcile。
my unforgiveness, my hatred, I know I shouldn't think。
these things, I shouldn't think ill of my brother and sister。
but yet you are struggling, then I wanna say。
the first step for you today is to experience。
God's grace and love afresh.。
There is no other place, there is no knowledge,。
and church, I want you to hear me,。
there is no knowledge that can replace the necessity。
of you placing yourself in the path of God's love and grace.。
So if you're struggling with forgiveness,。
then you have to put yourself in the path of God's grace。
so that you experience his love。
and this is the Christian life.。
Whatever it takes for you to put yourself。
in direct line of God's grace, you do.。
If you have to sell something, you have to smash idols,。
you have to get out of a place that feels unsafe。
that is triggering you, I think we have to wisely。
think of ways how we can place ourselves。
so at least even if a bit of his grace hits us,。
that's where we need to be.。
And when I think about Christian grace,。
as a pastor I think a lot,。
especially what is the Christian faith,。
what does it mean to be a Christian?。
Well, my recent thought, and I think Chapman。
said it quite beautifully, our faith is passed on.。
The Christian faith is not just sound or dry doctrine。
and traditions that we try to follow,。
but no, the Christian faith is revealed faith,。
it's living faith, it's walking with a living God.。
And our Christian, we grow because God reveals himself。
to us and we are transformed。
and this is what it means to be a Christian.。
And so like Joseph, Joseph, he encountered God for himself。
so that he knew what God said was true。
and likewise, we need to experience his grace。
and if the Bible says, for example, Psalm 145 says,。
"The Lord is good to all, he has compassion。
"on all that he has made."。
Do you believe that?。
Would you stake your life, would you do,。
when 10 people are doing this thing,。
would you do this one thing because you know。
that God, he said he's good, he said he's faithful,。
he will walk with us and therefore I will follow。
what he says.。
And so practically now, I wanna speak to us,。
those who are hurting right now.。
You find it difficult to trust God,。
you find it difficult to trust again,。
which I understand, you are offended right now,。
you are struggling with hatred,。
I'm gonna speak to us right now.。
And I want to call you to think about now,。
how do we learn to follow God's kindness again?。
And I want to just share three simple ways, okay?。
It says in Genesis, right,。
the Lord showed Joseph steadfast love,。
the Lord was with Joseph.。
I think just the first question I wanna ask you,。
will you let God show you steadfast love today?。
'Cause I think a lot of times I feel so much lack。
and I go to the wrong things and I get more tired,。
I get more depleted and you know,。
as a Chinese, in Chinese culture, there's a lot of face.。
You know, my parents, they don't let me do anything.。
They don't let me pay, they don't let me,。
it's like, mom, dad, I'm 42, can I pay for this meal,。
please, and I have to beg them.。
And finally, they relent, okay, fine, fine,。
you pay the $10, I'll pay, I'll cover the tips.。
It's like, no, like, you're not understanding,。
please let me give, you know?。
And I think a lot of us as Christians,。
we feel so sufficient, we feel that we can do it。
until we can't.。
And so today, I just wanna ask you,。
the first step, will you let God lead you today。
towards forgiveness?。
Now, second thing, coming back to if the Christian faith is,。
it's lived out, then I want to say that, you know what?。
That growth comes through relationships.。
And if we want to experience God's grace,。
then we have to, we have to figure out。
how to be with the church,。
because the church is the hands and feet of God, right?。
Now, hear me out here, okay?。
I'm not, I don't, just because someone says。
they're a Christian, just 'cause they say,。
I come to church every week, I serve,。
it doesn't mean in our woundedness。
that we should just throw ourself at them and say,。
hey, can you just speak into my life?。
You know, and I want to just encourage you。
to think about safe people, brothers and sisters。
who you know love the Lord, they fear the Lord,。
they love his word, and you know what?。
Jesus says to look at their fruit,。
look at their actions in their life.。
And if I want to experience God's grace,。
I want to look for people who are forgiving.。
I want to look for people who are trying。
their hardest to reconcile.。
Whether they do it or not in our lifetime, we don't know.。
But I want to surround myself with people。
who will pray for me, who, because they understand。
that forgiveness is important.。
And I want to slowly be able to confess and read the word。
and grow together with these people.。
So I want to, I want to encounter God's grace through you.。
And I want to figure out how do we forgive together,。
how do we reconcile, 'cause I can't do it my own.。
And lastly, I want to say that if we want to be led。
by God's kindness and his grace, that it means noticing,。
learning to notice what God is doing in your life right now.。
You know, because we are so busy。
that we miss what God is doing every single moment.。
And so how I discern this is, well, every day I journal,。
and every day, throughout every moment,。
I'm just asking myself, is God revealing himself to me?。
So if he is revealing himself,。
how am I transformed because of it?。
Right, because I can listen to sermons, a lot of sermons,。
I can go to a lot of conferences,。
I can do all these things, but if I'm unchanged,。
I'm not transformed, then what's the point?。
And so I want you to think about next time。
you feel like, oh my gosh, this is God's grace for me.。
I want you just to remember and note it down。
and say, this is God's grace.。
And write down how does that act of love transform you.。
When someone prays for you, when someone buys you a meal,。
when someone just comes to you and says, how are you doing?。
You know, when you guys come to me and say,。
can I pray for you, Justin?。
That is God's love, that is his grace for me,。
and I receive that each time.。
And so when we think about Joseph's life,。
ultimately, I think, by experiencing his grace,。
we can trust again, we would have courage。
to let him teach us what it means, like Joseph,。
to sit with God and to process our unforgiveness,。
to process our hurt, and so we can rely on the same God。
that led Joseph.。
And Joseph's life, I think, shows us and challenges us。
with an issue of trust.。
And so this morning, I think Joseph's life asks us,。
will you trust God's grace to lead you?。
Church, I'm just gonna bring it to a close,。
and you know, there was so much I want to share。
with us today, and I actually just stopped it there.。
But I want just to remind us of the most important thing,。
and I just wanna remind us that we follow a living God,。
and every moment, I don't know what season you're in。
right now, how difficult, maybe it's not, maybe it's okay,。
but every single moment, every season,。
the living God is with us, and we can experience。
his amazing grace if your heart is open,。
if your eyes are open.。
And each time we lean in, each time we obey,。
each time we feel a shift in our hearts,。
that is spiritual growth.。
It's sometimes not detected, it's not detectable,。
it's not measurable, we can't always express。
what God is doing in us, but the fact that you guys。
are sitting here, we are worshiping together,。
means that God is doing something in your life。
every single day, every single moment,。
or else you would not be here.。
And so I want to call you to keep on working out。
your salvation with fear and trembling,。
knowing that the living God wants to lead us.。
He yearns that we would be reconciled to him,。
be reconciled with those we struggle with,。
or those that we just want to be closer with.。
And so I had a picture for us when I was preparing。
for this message for Yunlong, and I think the life。
and the journey of forgiving and reconciliation is,。
you know when you're at the beach and the waves come?。
It's called the ebb and flow.。
The waves come in, they crash, they go out.。
On some days, we want to forgive.。
On some days, we so bad yearn to be reconciled。
with those who we love, but the same time,。
on most days, we get washed off on the shore,。
we get stuck in hatred, we get stuck in unforgiveness,。
we get stuck in our misery of not knowing what to do,。
but in this picture, I just want to encourage you。
that God sees you, Jesus sees you,。
Jesus hears your prayers as we are ebbing。
and flowing back and forth, and today's word,。
I just want to remind us that his kindness is,。
will lead you through every season.。
You know, and for me, I came to Christ when I was 16,。
and I'm 42 this year, and I'm still learning how to forgive.。
And I truly believe, like Joseph's life,。
it's God's grace is for us every day,。
but transformation is gonna take time.。
And so I want to call you to be patient。
and to be okay that God is working.。
And time, they say, you know, time heals all wounds.。
I want to challenge that because I don't think it's true.。
You know, time doesn't change, heal all wounds,。
nor does forgiveness, just 'cause you forgive,。
it doesn't mean it guarantees reconciliation.。
It doesn't guarantee that the other person。
will think the same of you.。
But I do know that God alone heals us, yeah?。
And also, no matter how difficult it is,。
you know, it's like, Justin, why should I forgive, you know?。
Why should I forgive?。
Well, I think we forgive because whenever we forgive,。
whenever we step in faith and say,。
Lord, lead us in your grace so that I can forgive,。
we are the ones that are actually changed.。
Even if no one else changes, you are the one。
that is forever changed because of God's grace。
and of what he's doing.。
And so I want to end with, I just want you to think back。
to what the hospice nurse said, you know,。
the regrets that people have at the end of their life.。
And I want to just stand before you,。
and I hope you can keep me accountable to this.。
You know, I decided in preparation for this message。
that I don't want to ever regret wasting God's time.。
I don't want to ever, at the end of my life,。
you know, look back and say, oh my gosh,。
I wasted God's grace.。
God's grace was there every single day。
and I just didn't take it.。
I just ran away, I just tried to delude myself,。
I just tried to like, you know, not deal with the pain.。
And so I just want to call you back, you know, church,。
if God's kindness is leading you,。
if God's grace is here with us and for us。
and available to us in every season of life,。
then will you join me and take true responsibility。
and make forgiveness your concern?。
I'm gonna pray for us now.。
Jesus, I pray, Lord, that we understand,。
and actually we do understand how short life is.。
We don't know what's gonna happen this afternoon,。
we don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow,。
but Jesus, today you are calling us,。
you're inviting us to receive your shalom,。
your peace within our relationships.。
Father, some of us, we want shalom with you,。
we want to be reconciled with you.。
And for others of us, Lord God,。
we are thinking about certain relationships,。
which you already know, and we want to forgive,。
we want to work through our relationship, Lord God.。
(gentle music)。
And so Father, I pray that your grace today,。
you would give us courage to step,。
take one step into the light of your kindness。
and your grace, and that we would live in it with you,。
that we would experience your grace afresh。
and your kindness afresh through the church。
and through what you're doing in our life.。
And so Father, before we die,。
before each of us finish what we have to do here,。
I pray that you teach us how to forgive those who hurt us.。
I pray that you teach us to forgive ourselves, Lord God,。
and the mistakes that we make.。
And Father, I pray that you remind each of us。
that our Christian faith is a struggle sometimes,。
but it's not struggle with just anything.。
No, it's a conversation, it's a struggle,。
it's a lament with you.。
We sit with you as you sit with us.。
And so Father, would you give us a wise heart。
to discern how we should spend our time and energy?。
And I pray that we would spend it on people.。
And so Jesus, I just pray that you give us courage。
to live out faith boldly, Jesus, with you。
and in your grace.。
In your name we pray, amen.。
