We want to warmly welcome each and every one of you here tonight on this Good Friday.。
Tonight we journey together and we reflect on the death of our Savior, Jesus Christ,。
and we really take this time to contemplate what his sacrifice means to us as believers.。
And as we gather around the cross tonight, we are going to listen to God's Word.。
We are going to listen to Scripture and we will respond in song, respond in liturgical。
prayer, and we do this together.。
For those who have come with our children, no matter how young or how old, I want to。
encourage you to enjoy this time as a family, worship together, pray together, take communion。
together.。
A special part of tonight's service together is we are going to respond to the living God。
through liturgical prayer.。
And simply put, these are prayers that involve all of us as a community responding reflectively。
and prayerfully back to God.。
And so the form of these prayers is a call and response.。
As a service leader, I will pray and I will read out the part under service leader, and。
you will respond as a congregation, all of us in one voice, and you will pray and read。
the parts titled congregation.。
You will understand once we pray and respond in a few lines.。
Regardless of where you are in life, what you're going through, tonight, our living。
God meets us.。
And just as always, as you come and worship, we want you to just be yourself and respond。
with a worshipful heart.。
And so let us open our hearts to God and behold and contemplate Him.。
And as we do, know that God hears us.。
As we speak, we speak directly to God.。
And as we gather here, He is with us.。
Psalm 22 says, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?。
Why are you so far from saving me, so far from my cries of anguish?。
My God, I cry out by day, but you do not answer.。
By night, I find no rest.。
Yet you are enthroned as the Holy One.。
You are the one Israel praises.。
In you, our ancestors put their trust.。
They trusted and you delivered them.。
To you, they cried out and were saved.。
In you, they trusted and were not put to shame.。
But I am a worm and not a man, scorned by everyone, despised by the people.。
All who see me mock me.。
They hurl insults, shaking their heads.。
He trusts in the Lord, they say.。
Let the Lord rescue him.。
Let him deliver him, since he delights in him.。
Yet you brought me out of the womb.。
You made me trust in you, even at my mother's breast.。
From birth, I was cast on you.。
From my mother's womb, you have been my God.。
So do not be far from me, for trouble is near and there is no one to help.。
My heart has turned to wax.。
It has melted within me.。
Things surround me.。
A pack of villains encircles me.。
They pierce my hands and my feet.。
All my bones are on display.。
People stare and gloat over me.。
They divide my clothes amongst them and cast lots from my garment.。
But you, Lord, do not be far from me.。
You are my strength.。
Come quickly to help me.。
Deliver me from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dogs.。
Rescue me from the mouth of the lions.。
Save me from the horns of the wild oxen.。
We couldn't help but fall asleep.。
I mean, we didn't want to.。
We tried to stay awake, but we were just so tired from all the things that had happened。
in the week that we had arrived in Jerusalem.。
And we had gathered now on the top of Mount Olives, and we were looking out on the beautiful。
temple, and we were trying our best to stay awake and to pray.。
And just, he stood off in the distance in the dark, praying a line.。
It was Peter who fell asleep first, of course.。
And as soon as he fell asleep, well, I guess we thought it was permission for all of us。
to fall asleep.。
And then that thing I remember is being shaken awake by Jesus himself.。
He was angry at us for the weakness that we had to not kind of pray in this hour of need.。
But I remembered he was agitated.。
Not just agitated at us, but agitated because he was carrying something.。
I'd actually never seen this in him before.。
A weight upon him, a precious weight that he was carrying that he didn't know how to。
shake.。
And as he walked off again into the darkness to pray, I decided this time I would follow。
him.。
I would come after him, and I would sit behind him and listen to what he was saying.。
And I found this old olive tree, and I sat behind it.。
In the quietness, I leaned in and listened intently.。
The sound Jesus was making was one I had not heard before.。
It was like this low, guttural kind of sound, like a moaning.。
And I realized that he was sobbing.。
And as I quieted myself down, I tried to hear what he was saying in his prayer.。
And I could barely make out the words.。
He was saying, "Father, take this cup from me, but not my will, your will be done."。
And then the words were coming out like a raspy breath, like he was spitting the sound。
out.。
And he was praying it over and over again.。
And each time it seemed more urgent for him, as if God was not answering him.。
Take this cup, take this cup, take this cup.。
And so I ran back to the others, and I got them ready.。
And I said, "We need to pray fervently."。
And so we started to pray the prayer that he had taught us to pray.。
"Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be your name.。
Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.。
Your will be done."。
Not our will, your will.。
I didn't anticipate that that prayer would be answered so quickly.。
It was actually James who heard him first, although we eventually all heard it.。
Judas had a way of walking that was distinct, large and heavy footsteps on the ground.。
The kind of sound of someone who was so arrogant to think that his presence needed to be announced.。
And as he was walking, we could also hear other footsteps, a large crowd gathering around。
him.。
And as I looked out in the moonlight, I could see the dust of the olive groves lifting up.。
And I knew a large crowd was coming, and I could tell that they were angry.。
And at that moment, I knew, I knew Jesus was about to be betrayed by Judas.。
He did it with a kiss.。
Can you imagine it?。
Judas appears before Jesus with a big smile on his face, and he walks straight up to him。
as if he hadn't seen him for years.。
And he says, "Rabbi," and he gives him a kiss on his cheeks.。
The intimacy of a greeting, betraying the faithfulness of a friendship.。
What happened next is hard to describe to you.。
For me now, still, it seems such a blur.。
But as Judas kisses Jesus, suddenly there's this sound.。
These two soldiers emerge from the crowd with swords, and they arrest Jesus.。
They take him by the arms.。
Peter suddenly jumps up and makes a shouting sound.。
And somehow there's a sword in his hand, and he's waving the sword around like a madman.。
And he cuts off the ear of one of the soldiers.。
Blood starts gushing out of his head.。
And through that, the other soldiers in the crowd raise up their swords.。
They start to charge forward.。
And I realize that this is the moment of our death.。
And right when things are the noisiest, a loud, commanding voice comes, and everything。
else silences around it.。
Jesus says this.。
He says, "What, you think I'm leading a rebellion, that you would come against me with swords。
and sticks to arrest me?。
Don't you realize I've been with you in the temple courts day in and day out, teaching。
your people?。
You never arrested me then.。
So come and do what you have come to do, because the Scriptures must be fulfilled."。
It was painful to see what happened next.。
But at the same time, one of the most majestic things I'd ever seen.。
Jesus goes down to the ground and picks up the ear.。
And he walks over to the man whose head was bleeding.。
And with the most tender words I think I've ever heard Jesus say, he places his hand on。
his head and he prays.。
The man's head is restored, his ear is remade, and he can hear again.。
And the pain is gone.。
I mean, I've seen many miracles that Jesus has done in our time.。
But this one, years later, I came to understand as one of his greatest.。
I came to understand it because of the moment that it happened in.。
I mean, could you imagine it?。
This is his worst hour.。
He's just been praying to his God to take the power of the cross from him.。
He's just been betrayed by one of his best friends.。
He's just been arrested by people who have a sword.。
And in the midst of all of that, Jesus does something that I think none of us would have。
done.。
Certainly, that I would not have done in that moment.。
In his worst hour, Jesus loved.。
He loved.。
Jesus responds to betrayal with the gift of love.。
And I would come to understand that this gift of love would shape all the events that were。
to happen next.。
In your hours of struggle and suffering in the garden, Jesus, you are truly here with。
us in flesh and blood, in heart and spirit.。
You who endured the agony in the garden, you offer up prayers to him who is able to save。
you from death, learning obedience from the things that you suffer.。
Oh, Jesus, in your readiness to suffer, that was tried and proven in the garden.。
Have mercy on us.。
Jesus, who was abandoned by the sleeping apostles.。
Have mercy on us.。
Jesus, in your love for us, that was not overcome in the garden.。
Have mercy on us.。
Jesus, in your goodness that was not embittered even in the garden.。
Have mercy on us.。
Jesus, in your courage that remained steadfast even in the garden.。
Have mercy on us.。
Jesus, in your meekness that did not falter even in the garden.。
Have mercy on us.。
Jesus, in your anguish and sorrow, in your fear and trembling praying in the garden.。
Have mercy on us.。
Jesus, who said, "Not my will, but yours be done."。
Have mercy on us.。
Jesus, who knew the sins of the whole world in the garden.。
Have mercy on us.。
Jesus, who knew our sins and was willing to take all of this upon yourself in the garden.。
Have mercy on us.。
Jesus, who was the most abandoned of all the abandons, who loved every one of us sinners.。
Have mercy on us.。
Oh, Jesus, in the garden of olives.。
Have mercy on us.。
Spare us.。
Deliver us from the evil.。
From the sins that you wept for in this garden.。
From ingratitude for your love.。
From indifference in your suffering.。
From resistance to your grace towards us.。
From bitterness over our own bitter agony and suffering.。
From doubt about God's love in our darkest hours.。
From despair in our moments of abandonment.。
Deliver us, oh Jesus.。
We ask this, we give this, in your mercy.。
Give us grace.。
Lamb of God, grant us, grant that we may gratefully return the love which prompted you to endure。
your most holy sufferings in this garden of olives for us sinners.。
Amen.。
Isaiah 53.。
Who has believed our message and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?。
He grew up before him like a tender shoot and like a root out of dry ground.。
He had no beauty or majesty to attract us to him.。
Nothing in his appearance that we should desire him.。
He was despised and rejected by mankind.。
A man of suffering and familiar with pain.。
Like one from whom people hide their faces.。
He was despised as we held him in low esteem.。
Of the hundreds of men that I have sentenced to death over my career, I actually do remember。
this Jesus that you speak of.。
Not because of him though, of course.。
No, he was inconsequential.。
I remember it because it was a day that Herod and I became best friends.。
I'd always thought Herod was a ghastly figure.。
So masculine but lacking the nuance of intelligence that you need for leadership.。
I would avoid him in social gatherings all the time because, you know, I wouldn't want。
to be associated with him.。
But on this particular day, I actually needed an ally.。
And to my surprise, Herod became one.。
And in that, he proved to me that I was right.。
They brought this Jesus before me, these chief priests and scribes of the law.。
And they accused him of all of these crimes, saying that he had done heresies and subversions.。
They told me that he was teaching people that they no longer had to give taxes to Caesar.。
A reasonable crime, I admit.。
But the one that actually intrigued me the most was when they told me that he was holding。
on to the claim that he was the king of the Jews.。
Now, let's put aside one moment the fact that that is actually my title as governor over。
Judea.。
And let's just focus on the fact that these scribes and chief priests wanted to kill him。
because of this claim.。
Now, I'm not Jewish, as you can probably tell by looking at me.。
But I, as governor of Judea, have made it my place to learn about these Jewish customs。
and the quaint religious traditions they have.。
I've actually read their scriptures and think that I know it better than some of them.。
I knew they were looking for a messiah.。
I knew they were excited for a king to come and rule them again, so that they could get。
rid of those nasty little Gentiles, to overcome the Roman Empire, and to establish a Jewish。
state forever.。
But here is the irony for me.。
One had finally come who was saying that he was the fulfillment of the prophecy, and they。
wanted not to enthrone him, but kill him.。
Sometimes the things that you long for when they arrive become the things that you want。
the least.。
Well, this Jesus was in my court, so I had to do something.。
So I took my most commanding voice and I said this.。
I said, "Are you the king of the Jews?"。
It's quite effective, isn't it?。
His reply was this, "Yes, it is as you say."。
And that was it.。
That was the extent of our conversation.。
And I looked upon this man with pity.。
He was no threat to the Roman Empire.。
This man was not dangerous.。
Certainly he wasn't a warring king that they wanted.。
And so I said to them, I said, "I see nothing wrong with this man.。
He's not done anything.。
He's not dangerous.。
I see no crime in him."。
You should have heard their response.。
They started shouting.。
They started uproaring all over the place.。
One of their law teachers came up to me personally, and he said, "Don't you understand that this。
man has come from Galilee all the way down to Jerusalem teaching heresy as he's come?"。
And now this was their mistake.。
They told me he had come from Galilee and I am not the protector of Galilee.。
I'm the protector of Judea.。
Herod is the protector of the people from Galilee.。
And so if they want to charge this man, it's not my responsibility, it's Herod's.。
I told them to send him off to Herod and let's see what Herod would make of him, whether。
Herod would agree with me or not.。
We sent Jesus off and to be honest with you, I thought that was the end of it.。
I was wrong, which doesn't happen very often, but did on this occasion.。
For at the end of the day, there was Jesus once again standing in my court.。
This time though, he was wearing a red robe.。
Herod had put a robe that mocked him as a king.。
And it was a message to me, because what Herod was saying was, "I agree with you, Pilate.。
I agree that this man is innocent.。
I agree with you that he's not who he claims to be.。
I agree with you that he's not the king that the Jewish people are hoping for.。
There's no crime here," Herod was saying to me.。
"Let him go."。
And off the back of Herod's thought and mine, I stood before the same crowd that I had stood。
before hours earlier, and I said, "There's no crime here.。
He's not a danger.。
I will punish him and let him go."。
At that moment, I have what I can only describe to you as a riot in my court.。
It was so embarrassing.。
Everybody started shouting, "Crucify him!。
Crucify him!。
Crucify him!"。
And I kept on saying, "He's innocent.。
I see nothing wrong with him.。
Crucify him!。
Crucify him!"。
And the noise was so loud that I got to the point where I just wanted these Jews to shut。
up.。
I realized that I had sent far more innocent people to their death than this Jesus.。
And so I responded, and I said, "All right, if you want him dead, it's no consequence。
to me.。
He can be dead.。
We can crucify him."。
And I told them, "I am a man of peace."。
And I realized that sometimes, you know, peace comes through the doorway of death.。
Oh Christ, grant us understanding of your courage, strength, and patience in the face。
of death.。
Be with us in our own trials, and in our death, and in our life.。
Jesus, you are the light that shines on in darkness.。
The darkness has never mastered it.。
Jesus, you are the King of glory.。
Your glory is not to be served, but to serve.。
Jesus, you are the King of love.。
Your love is to give yourself a ransom for many.。
Jesus, you suffer what looks like defeat, but emerge victorious.。
Jesus, your power comes to its full strength in weakness.。
We pray for those tasks to make.。
We call upon you and your mercy to mediate and lead them.。
Help our brothers and sisters to be true to what they themselves believe, yet to be ready。
to be led deeper into revelations about themselves, and to change their views and convictions。
by what you show them.。
We pray for the victims of accident, malice, and violence.。
Those who stand falsely accused.。
Those bearing the burden of painful illness, whether physical or mental.。
Those caught in intolerable webs of fear and perplexity.。
Those feeling abandoned and forgotten in the dark.。
Those enduring the agony of bereavement, and of physical suffering, and of anxiety for。
the safety of their dear loved ones.。
May Jesus, who passed this way himself, be known to all those suffering as the Savior。
who will bring healing and liberation.。
And on this Friday evening, may you reveal to us the truth of who you truly are.。
Amen.。
He was oppressed and afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth.。
He was led like a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before its shearers is silent,。
so he did not open his mouth.。
By oppression and judgment, he was taken away.。
Yet, who of his generation protested?。
For he was cut off from the land of the living.。
For the transgression of my people, he was punished.。
I was once given the title, "The King of Death."。
Sounds rather nasty, doesn't it?。
I thought it was quite fitting at the time, to be honest with you.。
I was a centurion that was overlooking most of the executions that were happening in the。
Greek Roman Empire at the time, particularly those by the procouncil of Judea.。
I was actually very good at my job.。
We killed mostly criminals and political prisoners of the Roman Empire.。
Now, here's how I did it.。
I was actually so skilled that from nailing somebody on the cross to their death, it would。
only take about three hours.。
I would use three nails in order to accomplish it, and in order for things to be efficient,。
we would often crucify three people at a time.。
I want you to think of this, three hours to death, three nails, crucifying three people。
at a time.。
It would actually be years later that I would come to understand the true significance of。
the number three in the death and resurrection of Jesus.。
Jesus.。
I didn't know him personally at the time, of course, but I had heard of him.。
He was the only person the soldiers were talking about.。
I remember walking into the praetorium, and there he was standing there wearing this scarlet。
robe.。
We had been told that his crime that we were about to kill him for was because he was claiming。
to be a king, the king of the Jews.。
We looked at him there, looking pathetic in his robe, the scorniness of him.。
So we mocked him.。
We spat at him.。
I actually told my crew of men that they could do whatever they wanted with him.。
Some of them gathered and formed a crown of thorns.。
They came and they placed a crown of thorns on his head, and they pushed it down so hard。
that the thorns cut him, and the blood that poured down out of the marks went through。
his face, making little tracks of blood on his cheeks like evil tears.。
We put a staff in his hand, and I instructed all of those who were in my company to bow。
down before him in mock worship and then stand up and hit him as hard as they could.。
After about 70 of them had done this, I judged that if it continued, he would maybe die in。
private rather than the shame of a public death that he had been ordered, and I told。
my men to back off.。
We stripped him of that robe.。
We put his own clothes back on him, and then we led him out to be crucified.。
I'm taking it in this room that none of you have ever nailed somebody to the cross.。
It's quite a skill, actually.。
The reason why we beat up our prisoners is because we want them exhausted so that they。
do not fight what happens next.。
We lie them down on the cross, and as they're held there by the soldiers, I take a heavy。
hammer and some big nails.。
I drive the first one through one wrist, the second one through the other wrist, and then。
we have fashioned a special nail for the bottom part.。
To get through both the bones of the ankles, we have to drive it in as hard as possible.。
It is excruciatingly painful, and that, my friends, is the point.。
I remember this Jesus, and I remember taking the nail and as I was banging it into him。
as hard as I could, I remember thinking, "Here's one who claims to be the Son of God.。
I mean, would the Son of God put him through this?"。
I mean, if this person really was the Son of God, how did he end up in this situation。
in the first place?。
And I have to tell you, I enjoyed driving those nails into him.。
Jesus did not die within three hours.。
I have to say I admire his fight for life, but I'd seen this before and I knew death。
would finally come.。
And at the ninth hour, I watch as Jesus shakes violently.。
He then says something in a tongue that I do not understand, and then he breathes out。
his last and he dies.。
He's dead.。
And his death singles the end to my day.。
And as I'm beginning to walk back to the praetorium, something happened that's hard to describe.。
There was this shaking that happens around my feet.。
When it first took place, I thought that maybe I was just dizzy.。
I mean, I was famished.。
I hadn't eaten for hours.。
But as I looked down there and thought maybe I should sit down for a moment, all the ground。
around me began to shake.。
And it began to shake so hard and I found myself falling down onto the ground and lying。
down and covering my eyes.。
And as I peered out from my hands on the ground, I could see the rocks around me splitting。
and shaking.。
And then I gazed over to the tombs of Golgotha, tombs where I had laid men many times before.。
And you will think I'm lying, but I actually saw dead men come out of those tombs, still。
wearing their grave clothes.。
One walked straight past me where I was lying.。
And in the midst of all of this, a darkness comes, a darkness that I cannot explain to。
you.。
I've never experienced such darkness in the world before.。
And I am absolutely terrified.。
And then suddenly, almost as quickly as it had began, suddenly it stopped.。
And silence descended again.。
And brightness came back to the world.。
And from lying where I was, I looked back up at the cross and Jesus was still hanging。
there and he was still dead.。
But as I looked at him, I saw him differently.。
He himself was not different.。
I saw him differently.。
I realized that he was not a liar.。
I can't tell you how I understood it.。
But what I had just experienced and what I had just seen, there was no other explanation。
for it.。
And as I looked up at him, I realized that I had just killed someone who actually was。
the person he claimed to be.。
And in that realization, I realized that I was the one responsible for setting my men。
on him and beating him up, for mocking him for the king that he actually was.。
I was the one responsible for banging in the nails that brought him excruciating pain.。
I had been the one that had stood there for hours on hours hoping for his death.。
And as I looked at him, what I saw was not his face, but mine.。
I saw myself on that cross.。
I saw myself hanging there.。
I saw all of the things that I had done for years and years, the things that I had covered。
up in false pretenses of power, the things that I had done to people that were not right.。
And as I looked at him, I saw myself and I realized it was me who should have been there,。
but this one had taken the place where I should have been.。
And in realizing that, guilt came over me like a wave.。
And I felt so cut up inside that I had been the one responsible for killing him.。
I remember turning to the soldier who was lying next to me.。
And as our eyes met, I said these words, I said, "Surely this one actually was the Son。
of God."。
Our Lord Jesus Christ, our Savior and Redeemer, we kneel before your blessed cross.。
We open our hearts to contemplate your holy sufferings.。
We pray we might receive more deeply in our hearts all you did and suffered, and that。
we might realize whom it was you suffered for.。
May your grace be with us, the grace that shakes off the coldness and indifference in。
our hearts, so that we may dwell with you in love, sorrow, and gratitude.。
In the Lord's hearts, may your crystallized love embrace our poor, weak, and weary hearts.。
Fill us now with an awareness of you.。
Stir up within us what we need so badly, compassion for you, love for you, honesty。
and faithfulness, and perseverance to contemplate your holy death on the cross.。
Let your death on the cross, the greatest act of loving kindness, penetrate our hearts.。
Right to its very core, right to its very center, that we might truly understand.。
Surely he took up our pain and bore our suffering, yet we considered him punished by God, stricken。
by him and afflicted.。
But he was pierced for our transgressions.。
He was crushed for our iniquities.。
The punishment that brought us peace was on him, and by his wounds we are healed.。
We all, like sheep, have gone astray.。
Each of us has turned to our own way.。
And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all.。
Joseph had invited me to help him take Jesus' body down from the cross.。
Seemed like a fantasy to me that he was dead.。
I mean, just days before I had met him in the night in secret.。
As a Pharisee myself, I was keen to understand his understanding of the Torah.。
And I asked him, "Can you explain the law to me?。
How do you teach it?"。
And over hours, Jesus said the most beautiful things.。
I mean, he opened up the scriptures to me in ways that I had never encountered before.。
It was almost as if he wasn't interpreting the law.。
It was like he was embodying it.。
It was like he was almost fulfilling it in the way that he spoke.。
I mean, the hours just passed away, and eventually the sun was beginning to come up, and a new。
day was breaking.。
And I said to Jesus, "I want to learn more.。
I want to sit under your teaching more."。
And we had to arrange a time for me to go back and visit him.。
Now here he was, dead on a cross, his body filled with blood.。
Joseph had been given permission to remove his body, and he'd invited me to come because。
we thought the authorities might change their minds.。
And so we took Jesus' body as quickly as we could, and we laid him down in a chamber that。
was nearby.。
And as we placed him down, we enacted a traditional Jewish burial.。
We got some warm water, and we began to wipe off the blood from him as much as we could.。
Very gently, I removed the crown of thorns that had been placed on his head, not wanting。
to scratch or cut him anymore, even though he was dead.。
I had prepared spices, as is our tradition in a burial moment.。
I actually had prepared 75 pounds of myrrh and aloes.。
Months later, I would reflect about the irony of that moment.。
The myrrh that I had gathered to anoint him in his death was the same spice that the magi。
had brought him at his birth.。
The scent that had welcomed him into our world would now be the scent that would carry him。
to the next.。
The way that we do it in our tradition is we take little strips of linen cloth.。
And these strips of linen cloth we bring to the spices, and we mix it in and build it。
into the spices just like this.。
And the spices give off a fragrance that represents what is happening in this moment.。
We take the fragrant linen strips, and we place them carefully, wrapping them around。
the body itself.。
And we wrap it around all of the body, from head to toe, covering it completely.。
And Joseph and I, we did this in reverence and awe.。
We did it in complete silence.。
These strips are representative of an honor of a life that is lived.。
And what we were doing is providing some grave clothes, grave clothes that we believe Jesus。
would wear for all eternity.。
Just a few weeks later, Joseph and I would be sitting with the disciples, having a conversation。
with the risen Christ.。
I remember after that, Joseph and I sitting together, and we looked back on the moment。
where we wrapped him in the linen strips.。
And we talked to ourselves, and we realized that what we were doing took on a profound。
meaning that at the moment we didn't understand.。
But we weren't just in that moment taking linen cloths in a Jewish burial rite and wrapping。
him like we always did.。
Instead, the reality of what was happening dawned on us.。
What we were doing was really taking strips of sin.。
And we were taking strips of sin, and we were wrapping his body with it.。
For it had been our sin, my sin, your sin, that had brought him to the place of his death.。
That the strips we were placing around him was like we were covering him in a sin of。
humanity.。
That the wages of sin is death.。
And those strips represented far more.。
They represented the grip of death that had now taken him to his grave.。
And as we wrapped it around him, we thought that that was it.。
Death clothes forever.。
And I was so glad that we were wrong.。
I would often gather with Peter for months, and I would ask him to tell me the story of。
the time when he and the women ran to the tomb.。
And Peter will get this big face of excitement.。
And he'll say, "We ran into the tomb with the women, and we didn't see Jesus' body.。
His body was not there.。
What they saw was Joseph and my linen strips folded neatly in the center of the tomb."。
It was as if Jesus was saying that grave clothes are only worn by the dead.。
It was like he was saying that these strips of sin are now discarded, set aside, dealt。
with.。
He was saying, "I no longer need to wear humanity's sin anymore, for sin has been overcome.。
Death has been killed."。
And I remember seeing him on the day when he ascended to be with his father.。
Joseph and I were standing together, and Jesus said these last words to us.。
And then he starts to ascend, and it's hard to describe to you what it was like.。
But as he ascends up into heaven, suddenly we can see that he's not wrapped in anything。
of linen at all.。
And I remember Joseph turning to me in that moment, and he says, "Do you see what he's。
dressed in?。
He's dressed in righteousness.。
He's dressed in robes of righteousness."。
And we come to discuss it amongst ourselves, that we now too, in our relationship with。
the risen Christ, in our relationship with the one that no longer wears the grave clothes。
of death, but who has shed those clothes for us, the one who's no longer on the cross,。
but is alive with us, he now puts new garments on us, that you now are not wearing death。
anymore, that death no longer has the final say in your life, that the clothes that he。
now wraps you in are also robes of righteousness.。
Not your righteousness, but his.。
His given to you because of what he did on the cross.。
His given to you because he is raised from the dead, so that we would know that we also。
rise.。
And we don't just rise at the end of all things when he returns, but we rise now, dressed。
in clothes of righteousness, to be his hands and feet, to a broken world.。
We saw in that moment, as he ascended to heaven, what would happen for the church as it would。
ascend in its glory, to serve those who were broken and lost and hurting around them.。
So on this Good Friday, as like Joseph and I, you come to consider what it is to wrap。
Jesus in the sins of your linen cloth.。
For you know that that brought him to death, so that he could overcome death, so that you。
could be brought into life.。
Jesus did this so that you might do this to a broken and hurting world.。
Rise up and be the resurrection of Christ for a world that desperately needs it.。
Let me pray for you.。
Let's pray.。
Father, we are so grateful, so grateful for your cross, so grateful that tonight we've。
been able to gather around the beauty and the wonder of your resurrection that comes。
after the profundity of you in the garden, you in the trial, you on the cross, and you。
in the tomb.。
And Father, I want to pray that as we've opened up that story in each of its segments for。
everybody here tonight, I pray now you would come and meet with them as they take their。
own time now to journey to your cross once more.。
Father, we're thankful that our sin has been dealt with.。
We're thankful that we no longer wear grave clothes.。
We're thankful that in your resurrection we have been given new life.。
But on this day, on this Good Friday, we soberly come to your cross again, recognizing that。
we still at times try to wrap linen cloth around you again.。
And Father, we come to you now, asking you to meet with us in this moment.。
Father, for those in this room that are carrying things that they need to give to you tonight,。
I pray you would come by your Spirit now and lead them.。
For those of us aware of our sin, may you recognize that that's the Holy Spirit at work。
in you, welcoming you to a beautiful place of grace.。
Father, as we now come to your table, as we celebrate your death and resurrection in communion,。
Father, we ask that you would now come and remain with us, draw us close.。
We thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Father, we thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Father, we thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Father, we thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Father, we thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Father, we thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
In these stations, there will be two things that we want to invite you to do.。
The first is there'll be communion available for you.。
I want to invite you in your own way and in your own time to take communion, to take the。
piece of bread and to take the cup.。
And as you pray and consider what it is to come to the cross tonight, you would take。
communion for yourself at the cross.。
The other thing we want to do is encourage you to symbolize what we've been talking about。
tonight.。
There's a linen cloth, a strip of linen that we've cut for every single person here.。
I want to invite you to do something that will help you over this weekend to continue。
to reflect about what we've been talking about tonight.。
I want to invite you to take a linen cloth and to take one of the bowls of the spices。
and just to put the cloth in the spices like I did earlier.。
The reason why you do that is because we want you to carry around that scent with you over。
the next 48 hours or so.。
And what we're going to invite you to do once you've dipped it in the spices is just to。
twist it up a little bit.。
And if you've come with someone tonight, you can invite them just to help you to tie it。
around your wrist.。
And as you tie it around your wrist, what you're going to be doing is wearing a bit。
of the grave clothes of Jesus upon you over the next 48 hours or so.。
We want you to wear it because we want you to stay in a place of reflection between Friday,。
Saturday and Sunday.。
The fragrance of the strip will remind you of the fragrancy of what Joseph and Nicodemus。
did for Jesus on that moment.。
Wearing it will remind you of the sin that placed Jesus on the cross and will give you。
some time over the next 48 hours to just spend that time with Jesus in reflection on sin.。
And then if you're going to come back here on Sunday, which we highly invite you to do,。
we will take some time on Sunday to cut off the strips that we're wearing as we celebrate。
the risen Jesus together on Sunday morning.。
So a place for you to take communion, a place for you to take a linen strip.。
And I want you to do this in a place of prayer and reflection.。
There's no time limit that we have here, but once I sense that we've all partaken in this,。
I'll come back and we will close our service together in a time of prayer.。
But as we move into this moment, let me pray once more.。
Father, I just ask that you would now move powerfully amongst us as we come forward in。
our own time, in our own way to take communion and to wear some grave clothes in reflection。
of you.。
And we pray you would meet us by your spirit.。
We thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
As you feel led by the spirit, please do come forward.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
