I have a question for you all.。
Who here, by show of hands please,。
who here watches Netflix?。
Okay, great.。
So my husband and I love a good show,。
and as new parents, we're not really able to watch。
as we used to, but when we get those little moments,。
and we get the chance to just sit down and unwind,。
we really love a good British limited series.。
Yeah, right?。
They're usually really short,。
they're jam-packed with cliffhangers, amazing storylines,。
and they sort of leave you at the edge of your seat,。
like, what's gonna happen next?。
What's gonna happen to this person?。
But at the end of the series,。
there's always a bit of a sigh,。
and that's just it, it's over.。
And now funnily enough, there's a little series。
or a two-parter in the Bible,。
and we've been looking at part one of it。
for the last few weeks.。
It's written by Luke, both the Book of Luke and Acts。
are part of the same series, and they're both about Jesus.。
And trust me, it's more than your average Netflix show.。
Part one, the Book of Luke, as you may have noticed,。
speaks about the anticipation of the coming Christ,。
his birth, his miracles, his death, and his resurrection.。
And it's all from eyewitness accounts.。
Part two in the Book of Acts is what happens。
after Jesus ascends into heaven,。
the Holy Spirit overtakes, and how the word of God,。
the gospel, spreads from Jerusalem to the rest of the world.。
And trust me, if you've read Acts,。
you know there's no shortage of extraordinary miracles。
and a show of the power of God.。
Now, I mentioned Netflix earlier。
because there's often the temptation。
to look at the Bible the same way we look at a film。
or a series.。
It's entertaining whilst we're watching it,。
like in the moment, and maybe you talk about it。
a little bit afterwards, but it fades very, very quickly.。
It's like it fades into the box of memories。
of many, many other films that you've seen。
and that you've watched.。
So as we continue to look through Luke today,。
I wanna challenge us not to do the same thing.。
Let's not look at the word of God。
like we do a film or a show on Netflix,。
where we're engaged in the moment。
and then we forget all about it as soon as we finish,。
where we don't apply what we've read into our own lives。
and we make the mistake of looking at the Bible。
as some sort of fictional story.。
The word of God is true.。
The word of God is life-changing,。
and it should be read with the expectation。
that every time we open it, God has something to say。
and he wants to meet with us.。
So have this in mind as we look at the text today.。
The word of God is true.。
The word of God changes lives.。
It always, always, always, always brings freedom,。
and it goes far beyond us.。
It never returns to him void.。
Last week, Chapman took us through Mary's song,。
and today we're gonna take a look at Zechariah's song.。
I'm gonna read a little bit before that。
so we get a better picture of what has happened。
and what brings him to actually sing.。
It's quite a long one,。
but I do think it's important to read the whole thing。
so then we can dive into it a little bit deeper.。
So it's in Luke 1, verse 57 to 80, and it reads,。
"When it was time for Elizabeth to have her baby,。
"she gave birth to a son.。
"Her neighbors and relatives heard。
"that the Lord had shown her great mercy,。
"and they shared her joy.。
"On the eighth day, they came to circumcise the child,。
"and they were going to name him。
"after his father, Zechariah.。
"But his mother spoke up and said,。
"'No, he is to be called John.'。
"They said to her,。
"'There is no one among your relatives who has that name.'。
"Then they made signs to his father。
"to find out what he would like to name the child.。
"He asked for a writing tablet,。
"and to everyone's astonishment, he wrote,。
"'His name is John.'。
"Immediately, his mouth was opened and his tongue set free,。
"and he began to speak, praising God.。
"All the neighbors were filled with awe,。
"and throughout the hill country and Judea,。
"people were talking about all these things.。
"Everyone who had heard this wondered about it,。
"asking, 'What then is this child going to be?'。
"For the Lord's hand was with him."。
Verse 67, now we're getting into the song.。
His father, Zechariah, was filled with the Holy Spirit。
and prophesied, "Praise be to the Lord, the God of Israel,。
"because he has come to his people and redeemed them.。
"He has raised up a horn of salvation for us。
"in the house of his servant David,。
"as he said through his holy prophets long ago,。
"salvation from our enemies and from the hand。
"of all who hate us, to show mercy to our ancestors。
"and to remember his holy covenant.。
"The oath he swore to our father Abraham,。
"to rescue us from the hand of our enemies。
"and to enable us to serve him without fear,。
"in holiness and righteousness before him all our days.。
"And you, my child, will be called a prophet。
"of the Most High, for you will go before the Lord。
"to prepare the way for him, to give his people。
"the knowledge of salvation through the forgiveness。
"of their sins, because of the tender mercy of our God,。
"by which the rising sun will come to us from heaven,。
"to shine on those living in darkness。
"and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet。
"into the path of peace."。
And the child grew and became strong in spirit,。
and he lived in the wilderness。
until he appeared publicly to Israel.。
Amen.。
So, from this verses, it's really clear to see。
that God is at work.。
A few weeks ago, we saw Mary's encounter with the angel,。
and we also saw Zechariah's, all within the same time。
period, not centuries apart.。
And we also saw how they both responded.。
Mary welcomed the word of the Lord,。
I am your servant, while Zechariah doubted,。
how can I be sure of this?。
His doubt actually echoes another story。
in the Old Testament.。
It's quite similar to this one, in terms of barrenness。
and waiting on the Lord.。
We read in Genesis 18, that Sarah had a similar reaction。
when she heard that she would have a child in her old age.。
In fact, she thought it was so ridiculous that she laughed.。
Now, can you imagine your grandma,。
actually, your great grandma, telling you she's pregnant,。
she's about to have a baby?。
[laughing]。
You would probably laugh and think it was a joke, too.。
But the Lord says to Abraham, in verse 14,。
is anything too hard for the Lord?。
Sarah was past childbearing age,。
and it really didn't seem like a feasible task.。
But this was a reminder that if God says it,。
he can and he will do it.。
Nothing is impossible for God,。
which is the same message that we get here in Luke。
and in many other parts of the Bible.。
So this was said by the angel to Elizabeth.。
For no word from God will ever fail.。
Even Elizabeth, your relative,。
is going to have a child in her old age,。
and she who was said to be unable to conceive。
is in her sixth month.。
I'll say it again.。
For no word from God will ever fail.。
And in the book of Isaiah, this is from the Lord himself.。
So it is my word that goes out from my mouth.。
It will not return to me empty,。
but will accomplish what I desire。
and achieve the purpose for which I have sent it.。
Once he has spoken, we can be sure that he will fulfill it,。
and ultimately, everything is fulfilled。
in the person of Jesus.。
Now, a few weeks back,。
we saw how Zechariah's mouth was actually muted.。
He doubted the word of the Lord。
that was spoken to him by the angel,。
and then he was unable to speak。
until after his son was born.。
But even in his silence,。
he was able to declare that which God had already spoken.。
As baby John was getting circumcised,。
eight days after his birth,。
he was asked what the child's name was,。
and instead of what was common practice,。
naming the child after a relative,。
he broke the mold and did something very different.。
He chose in that moment to walk in obedience。
and follow the instructions that were given to him。
by the angel.。
And though he doubted at the beginning, he did,。
he also saw God's word come to pass.。
He saw that, indeed, Elizabeth became pregnant.。
He saw that she had given birth to their son,。
and that their old age meant nothing。
because God had said it, and the miracle was done.。
Just as it was done for Abraham centuries before,。
God was doing it again,。
and now all eyes were on Zechariah.。
What are you going to name this boy?。
And Zechariah decided to follow what the Lord had said,。
and as soon as he wrote down his name as John,。
it says, immediately, his mouth was opened。
and his tongue set free,。
and he began to speak, praising God.。
Now, declaring the word of the Lord brings freedom.。
In Zechariah's case, it was freedom of his tongue。
and having the ability to speak again.。
We also see God's word bringing freedom。
to the children of Israel in the book of Exodus.。
The Israelites were slaves in Egypt。
and longed for their freedom,。
and as Moses continually spoke to Pharaoh,。
declaring God's words,。
let my people go so they may worship me,。
the power of God broke through,。
and the Israelites were set free.。
When we speak God's word, his truth,。
into situations, there is always freedom,。
whether it be physical freedom,。
spiritual, or freedom from sin.。
Now, if you're an old man,。
you've got no children,。
you've been praying and waiting for decades,。
probably going to the temple on a regular basis。
and just waiting on God.。
We know that being childless was looked down upon。
because we see Elizabeth's words in verse 25.。
He has shown me favor。
and taken away my disgrace among the people.。
And it finally happens.。
The Lord does this great thing,。
and after months of not being able to speak,。
what would be the first words out of your mouth?。
I know for me, I might be a little bit sour at first.。
Not being able to speak for all that time。
throughout the pregnancy of our first child,。
there must have been so many moments。
that he wanted to just exclaim,。
you know, feeling that first kick, all sorts of things.。
Or maybe just so excited about this miracle。
that I'd be so obsessed with my baby,。
which is often the case,。
and the prayers and the praise to God comes later.。
But Zechariah doesn't speak about John.。
He doesn't even speak about his wife,。
but immediately praises God.。
And what follows is incredible.。
His father, Zechariah,。
was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied.。
And to prophesy is to speak about things that are to come.。
So events that haven't happened,。
but certainly will in the future.。
It's not fortune telling.。
It's none of this weird new age stuff。
that you hear about today.。
No tarot cards, no odd practices.。
It's nothing to do with our own strength.。
It's always, prophecies that come from God are always true,。
and they always happen at their appointed time.。
And at this time,。
the Holy Spirit had not yet fallen on all men.。
So there are moments throughout the Old Testament。
where you see people are overpowered,。
empowered by the Holy Spirit to do something or to speak.。
But we need to be aware。
that it isn't like what we experience today,。
where we can lay hands on each other。
and ask for a filling of the Holy Spirit.。
This was something that came much later.。
And there's a prophecy in Joel。
that speaks about these days,。
the days that we are actually living in today.。
What a privilege.。
So what we read in Luke。
is actually an anticipation of what is to come.。
It's little glimpses of the power of the Holy Spirit.。
The angel said John would be filled with the Holy Spirit。
even before his birth.。
And we see that Elizabeth gets filled。
with the Holy Spirit in verse 41.。
And now, Zechariah.。
We know today that the filling of the Spirit。
often accompanies a great move of God.。
In the book of Acts 2,。
after the disciples were filled with the Holy Spirit,。
they go out healing the sick, speaking in tongues,。
casting out demons, and doing all sorts of things。
in the power of the Holy Spirit.。
And we have the ability to look back on these things.。
And as we put our faith in Jesus now,。
we can also be filled with the same Holy Spirit.。
But here, Zechariah's looking ahead.。
He's speaking of things that haven't actually happened.。
Things he had heard by word of mouth。
or by reading the scrolls.。
So verses 68 to 65.。
Let's have a little look.。
Praise be to the Lord, the God of Israel,。
because he has come to his people and redeemed them.。
He's raised up a horn of salvation for us。
in the house of his servant David,。
as he said through his holy prophets of long ago.。
Salvation from our enemies。
and from the hand of all who hate us.。
To show mercy to our ancestors。
and to remember his holy covenant,。
the oath he swore our father Abraham.。
To rescue us from the hand of our enemies。
and to enable us to serve him without fear。
in holiness and righteousness before him all our days.。
Zechariah is pointing to the coming Christ。
in this prophecy.。
He's sent to earth to redeem and save mankind,。
the most important event in our history.。
That through the family of David,。
a revered king amongst the Israelites,。
the ultimate king Jesus would come。
and fulfill the word of God.。
That all the Old Testament prophecies,。
all the words that God spoke before。
through the prophets would come to pass.。
So in case you missed it,。
this prophecy is all about Jesus.。
And we know that it is true。
because all of this has actually happened.。
Just as he said it would.。
Everything is about him.。
Zechariah realized that his own life,。
the birth of John, the surrounding events,。
they were all part of a greater story.。
By praising the Lord,。
he actively participated in the move of God。
and what he was doing at that time.。
He didn't look at his own life,。
nor did he focus on the birth of his son。
or put that at the forefront.。
All of that was secondary.。
He knew that greater things were to come.。
His humility opened him up to seeing。
that he was not the main character.。
And surprise, surprise guys,。
neither are we.。
Even in our own lives,。
our stories are no longer about us.。
The minute we become Christians,。
we often say we've given our lives to Christ.。
He becomes the first and the last.。
And we surrender everything to him.。
We give him the praise,。
we give him the honor.。
Colossians 3 says we do everything as unto the Lord.。
So that's your work life,。
the way you speak to each other,。
your family, what we put in our bodies,。
everything is for him and about him.。
So we are no longer the main characters.。
Now, I'm gonna take you back。
to our little Netflix example.。
By show of hands, please,。
have a good look at these four guys.。
I'm gonna point to one and I'm gonna ask。
how many people recognize this person.。
So I'm gonna start with this guy.。
Show of hands, how many of you have ever seen this man?。
Okay.。
This guy.。
Oh yeah.。
This guy.。
Maybe.。
This guy.。
Yeah.。
(laughing)。
That was the response I was hoping for, guys.。
That was the response I was hoping for.。
Now, you only recognize these two guys.。
This one here, this one.。
A few, maybe like three people recognize this guy.。
This guy, no one recognized this guy, which is great.。
(laughing)。
So you recognize these two the most。
because they are the main characters in their films.。
They're the main actors.。
So the storylines are centered around them,。
their lives, there might be some random love interest。
in there or something.。
But for the most part, everything is about those guys.。
And it's interesting how they manage to keep us interested。
and invested in this character throughout the whole film.。
The other two guys, you ask, never seen them before?。
Nope, I had never seen them either。
until I started preparing for this sermon.。
And that's because they are actually stunt doubles.。
Yeah.。
So a stunt double is a trained professional。
who stands in for an actor to perform dangerous。
or demanding tasks.。
So, obviously, you won't see the actual Daniel Craig。
jumping out of a helicopter or a building.。
It will be a stunt double.。
The two guys from the previous slides。
were their stunt doubles.。
So those are the people that will be doing。
all the dangerous things.。
Yeah, so the actor does the majority of the film。
with no regard for the stunt double.。
All of the easy things, goes about his business.。
But when he or she comes to that scene。
that requires a bit more strength,。
that's a bit dangerous, could cause a bit of harm or pain,。
they just step aside, let the stunt double come and do it,。
and they do it to perfection.。
But they're always in the background.。
No one ever knows there was a stunt double.。
It happens so quickly, and there's never a pause。
in the film that says,。
"This stunt was performed by a stunt double."。
Never, ever happens.。
And if you don't know much about films,。
or you blink a bit too quickly,。
you may assume that it was the main actor who did it.。
And all of the awards, all of the accolades,。
go to the main actor.。
There is not an Oscar for stunt doubles.。
Surprise, surprise.。
- There should be, right?。
- There should be, right?。
But there isn't.。
(laughing)。
Now, think about your own life for a second.。
How many times have we been the main characters。
in our own stories,。
and relegated God to our stunt double?。
We call him when times are tough.。
He comes in, he does the job,。
and then we push him to the background.。
No praise, no honor, no recognition.。
It's all about us.。
And as I was preparing for this sermon,。
I actually had to humble myself and repent,。
because I realized that I was doing the exact same thing.。
I was in two minds about doing this sermon.。
And I had like a million questions.。
I've narrowed them down.。
Should I?。
Shouldn't I?。
All eyes on me.。
I may not be able to just fade into the background。
after doing this.。
I don't particularly like speaking in public.。
What if I say the wrong thing?。
I'm not a pastor.。
Should I be preaching?。
Now, let's look at those questions again.。
And I've made all of the I's and all of the me's bold.。
So we can all count it together.。
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.。
Eight times.。
And trust me, I had way more questions.。
There's way more I's and me's.。
Loads more.。
So how many times did I talk about myself?。
- Eight times.。
- How many times did I mention God?。
How many times did I mention His will?。
What He has to say?。
I had made preaching and declaring His word all about me.。
And we often go about life in this exact same way.。
We live for ourselves.。
We wake up in the morning, it's about our kids,。
our spouses, our jobs, what we're gonna eat,。
what we're gonna wear, what will people think of us,。
where we need to be, what we need to do.。
We often don't even consider what God has for us each day.。
And we go through the motions, doing life,。
going through the script, saying our lines,。
until we get to the crossroad。
where we need our trusted stunt double.。
And in preparing for this sermon,。
perhaps my mindset should have been this instead.。
What does God want to share with His church?。
How will He use me?。
I'm gonna read that again.。
What does God want to share with His church?。
How will God, how will He use me?。
See, once you change your perspective。
and you shift your gaze to Him,。
you realize that it isn't about you.。
You are not the main character.。
He is.。
And it is about what He wants to do in and through you.。
Now, Zachariah had the right idea.。
He made God the center。
and had set his eyes on the things above.。
Luke 1:6 says, "He and Elizabeth were righteous。
"in the sight of God, observing His commands blamelessly,。
"and even after doubting, He was obedient。
"and followed the word of the Lord,。
"praising God and looking to Him as the most important."。
What he had just experienced was an afterthought.。
When he looked ahead at what was to come,。
all of the prophecies of old were about to be seen。
in his day, and his son would prepare the way。
for the Messiah, the Christ, the Redeemer,。
the horn or the strength of salvation.。
He would see scriptures that he had heard。
as a boy fulfilled.。
And only after he speaks about Christ。
does he mention John, his son.。
Jesus was always first.。
And when we believe in God and we believe in His words。
and we're obedient to Him, we make Him the main character,。
just like Zachariah did.。
As we build our lives on Him,。
He becomes the center and we become a part。
of the big story that He is writing.。
(pages rustling)。
Let's just take 10 seconds。
and just have a think about that last part.。
As we build our lives on Him, He becomes the center.。
We become a part of the big story that He is writing.。
(pages rustling)。
Can we just call up the worship team?。
So I want us to have a think about our own lives.。
How do we see Jesus?。
Is He the main character?。
Are we part of His great story?。
Or is He a tiny part of ours, like a stunt double?。
So there's this worship song that I absolutely adore。
and it goes like this.。
I'm not gonna sing, by the way.。
(laughing)。
No, I'm not gonna break into song.。
It seemed like a moment, right?。
No, no, no.。
(laughing)。
I'm gonna read the words.。
(laughing)。
No, no, no.。
(laughing)。
It says, "Turn your eyes upon Jesus.。
"Look full in His wonderful face。
"and the things of earth will grow strangely dim。
"in the light of His glory and grace."。
I'm gonna read it again.。
"Turn your eyes upon Jesus.。
"Look full in His wonderful face。
"and the things of earth will grow strangely dim。
"in the light of His glory and grace."。
If we can all just close our eyes for a second.。
(soft piano music)。
Lord, help us to fix our eyes on you.。
To turn our eyes to you for all of our needs.。
To look to you as our source of strength and peace,。
our guide, our help in times of trouble,。
but also in times of blessing.。
That we will not forget that you are the main character.。
That our lives are about you and bringing you glory.。
And that when we start to look up to God,。
instead of looking ahead on earth,。
the things that aren't important to God。
really do fade away.。
Our fleshly desires, our pride, our selfish ways,。
and we start to love God more and love His people.。
It's all about you, Lord.。
Lord, in our finances,。
we ask that you would help to steward。
what you have given us.。
In our homes, Lord,。
we would ask how we can honour you with our children,。
with our spouses and relatives.。
In our workplaces,。
we would ask how we can glorify you。
in our behaviour towards our colleagues and our bosses.。
In our serving, Lord,。
we would humble ourselves and see our giftings。
as a way to build up your church body and praise you.。
On our commute to work, Lord,。
we would ask how can I show God's love?。
Giving up my seat, perhaps?。
Very rare.。
There are so many areas of our lives。
that we need your help, God.。
We don't want to be the main character, Lord.。
That's your job.。
And Lord, help us to do it joyfully.。
Lord, there is joy in serving you.。
There is joy in giving our lives to you, Lord.。
Let's just take a moment.。
If anything is coming up,。
if God is pointing out anything。
that you may need to repent of,。
you can do that now.。
Yeah, Lord, help us to just continue。
to live our lives for you.。
It's all about you, Jesus.。
(gentle music)。
Thank you, Lord.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
♪ Let the mountains move ♪。
♪ We come with expectations ♪。
♪ Waiting here for you ♪。
♪ Ooh ♪。
♪ Waiting here for you ♪。
♪ You're the Lord of all creation ♪。
♪ Still you know my heart ♪。
♪ The author of salvation ♪。
♪ You love us from the start ♪。
♪ Waiting here for you ♪。
♪ With our hands ♪。
♪ Lifted high ♪。
♪ You praise ♪。
♪ And it's you ♪。
♪ We adore, we adore ♪。
♪ Singing, "Alleluia" ♪。
(gentle music)。
♪ You are everything you're promised ♪。
♪ Your faithfulness is true ♪。
♪ We're desperate for your presence ♪。
♪ All we need is you ♪。
♪ Waiting here for you ♪。
♪ With our hands ♪。
♪ Lifted high ♪。
♪ You praise ♪。
♪ And it's you ♪。
♪ We adore ♪。
♪ Singing, "Alleluia" ♪。
♪ Alleluia ♪。
- I wonder if we can just repeat this prayer after me.。
Lord, help us.。
To fix our eyes on you.。
To turn our eyes to you.。
For all of our needs.。
To put you first.。
You are the main character.。
It's all about you.。
Help us to look up.。
Instead of ahead.。
And help us to love you more.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
Thank you, Lord.。
(gentle music)。
I'll let stand.。
Let's continue in worship.。
Let's respond to God.。
you。
