Thank you, Tim. Thank you, Pastor Tim.。
And thank you everyone for coming into church today.。
I'm really happy to see you at church.。
I just was just telling my friend that。
remember the time when we had to worship alone。
in our house, in our apartment, facing the TV?。
Because it was pandemic, right?。
And everyone had to stay indoors。
and we had to worship on our own.。
And there's no fun in it, actually.。
The really enjoying part,。
but the really good part about worshiping。
is that when we all come together。
and all enjoy each other's singing.。
And I think that every time I come to worship,。
I just find it pure joy.。
I can get to immerse myself into the music,。
into the worship and just praise God.。
And there's nothing more wonderful than that.。
And I think every time when we talk about worship,。
immediately think about the musical part, right?。
I wonder if you ever thought about。
why every time people talk about,。
"Let's worship God," you go,。
"Okay, I'm ready to sing,"。
or "I'm not ready to sing."。
Singing is very integral, very important。
in the worship part because it engages our whole body,。
our whole being.。
You actually physically have to stand up。
and move and to worship.。
You engage yourself emotionally。
when you think about God, the glory of God,。
and you want to express your adoration。
and your love to God.。
Also, sometimes you also have to engage your mind。
to think about what was being sung.。
And you can join in with the worship team。
to sing something beautiful.。
My friend once told me that after the Sunday service,。
what really stuck in their mind was not the sermon,。
but what was sung during the worship.。
The music, the lyrics actually accompany them。
throughout the week.。
It was not so much about the sermon,。
but the music really gets into your heart.。
And I've got to be honest with you,。
there was a season in my life。
where I loved singing so much。
that I put all my energy, all my heart,。
and all my soul into worship.。
And then after the worship part,。
I just fell back into my chair and go,。
I cannot do this anymore.。
And I find it very difficult to connect with the sermon,。
to connect with the announcement later on,。
because it just took all of my energy。
and all of my engagement into the singing part.。
But this is not what I want.。
I want to link the effort, the concentration,。
and the enjoyment I have in the music part。
of the worship to the rest of the Sunday service.。
Not only that, I want the same commitment,。
the same zeal and passion into my work,。
my home, my relationships,。
because I know that worship is not just the music.。
It's not the moment.。
It's supposed to be the way I live.。
How can this transformative worship。
that we have experienced empower us。
to live a life of worship?。
We are going back to the book of Isaiah today.。
Isaiah was one of the major prophets in the Old Testament.。
This was the turbulence time when Isaiah was prophesying,。
because there was such a lot going on in Israel.。
At that time, Israel was already split into two,。
and Isaiah was looking after a prophesying。
in the northern part of the Israel called Judah.。
And so let's read Isaiah 6, chapter one,。
verse one together.。
In the year of the king Uzziah died,。
I saw the Lord high and exalted,。
seating on a throne.。
This is an important thing to note.。
The encounter happened during the time。
when king Uzziah died.。
King Uzziah was a good and wise king.。
He reigned for about 52 years。
in the northern kingdom during Israel's split,。
providing a long period of time。
of stability and prosperity for Judah.。
He also lead Judah into military victories。
over the Philistines and other neighboring nations.。
In 2 Kings, chapter 15, verse three,。
the Bible says that he did what was right。
in the sight of the Lord.。
So to say in the year that king Uzziah died。
waited a lot in Isaiah's heart.。
Uzziah wasn't perfect, but he was compared,。
but he was very good compared to the kings before them。
who always swing between obedience and idolatry.。
Uzziah brought spiritual revival to Israel。
with his dedication to worship God.。
Now that Uzziah died,。
who is going to lead Israel after him?。
Who's going to continue this obedience to God。
after Uzziah?。
Isaiah was worried and he was disheartened。
and he was confused.。
What is going to become of the future of Israel。
when this king died?。
And this is the moment when God encounter,。
let Uzziah to encounter him.。
This was the moment when Isaiah was feeling weighted down,。
when he was feeling confused and remorse。
over the diseased king and hung his hope on the new one,。
God showed himself to Isaiah.。
High and exalted, as the verse continues to say,。
high and exalted, sitting on a throne,。
with the train of his rope, fill the temple.。
Above him were seraphims, each with six wings.。
With two wings, they covered their faces。
and two, they covered their feet。
and two, they were flying。
and they were calling to each other,。
holy, holy, holy is the Lord almighty.。
The whole earth is filled with his glory.。
At the sound of their voices,。
the doorsteps and the trash hole shook。
and the temples were filled with smoke.。
God showed Uzziah,。
God showed Isaiah who the real king was,。
who the real king was.。
Not only that, God make sure。
that this is not on a cognitive level。
where Isaiah will go, okay, this is,。
I know that God is great, I know that God is big.。
No, he let Isaiah to experience his greatness.。
Look at the description on the verses.。
It didn't say that God is big。
and then he just looked at it.。
It described that Isaiah saw the train of the rope。
fill the temple and this is not the temple of the size.。
Imagine that the rope of God's rope。
fill the whole street of this street.。
You will really have to lift up your head。
and to see this magnificent God.。
The sight itself is very overwhelming。
and then it continued to say。
that the sound of the seraphim singing。
shook the threshold and the temple itself.。
And the way that this sound is big。
is not just hearing it, but it was being felt.。
And this enormous, glorious God that Isaiah see,。
it's overwhelming him.。
And he sees this God, not only that he is big in itself,。
but he is actually, he's actually the Lord sovereign God.。
And so it puts Isaiah's grief into perspective.。
When God encountered Isaiah,。
Uzziah didn't come back to life.。
The confusion, the sadness, everything didn't vanish,。
but Isaiah's faith grew.。
Isaiah's faith grew because he saw God for who he is.。
He is the real king.。
He is the everlasting king.。
That the mortal kings comes and go,。
but this is the king that is going to stay.。
He's the king that whatever he said。
is going to come alive.。
Whatever he's gonna do is going to come through.。
So no matter who, which king comes after him,。
the king that Isaiah worshiped。
is going to reign forever and ever.。
And this sense, it's revelation of God,。
this awesomeness that Isaiah experienced。
led him to know that,。
led him to know that this is the king。
that I need to worship.。
And so God showed Isaiah that he need not be confused。
and nervous about the future,。
that God reigns.。
Uzziah might have died,。
but God revealed to Isaiah。
that he is the everlasting king.。
The revelation of who God is。
has put Isaiah's grief into perspective.。
And then the third film,。
that is the angel singing,。
plays a significant role in this narrative.。
They were singing, "Holy, holy, holy."。
The meaning of the word actually is to set apart.。
This apartness is not only the difference。
in height or in power,。
he is also set apart from all that is evil,。
sinful, unclean, and impure in this world.。
What happens when you encounter this holiness?。
You realize how sinful you are.。
The easiest way to understand this is my white trainers.。
I thought my trainers were white,。
but then when I compare it to someone。
that just bought their trainers,。
I know that mine fail in comparison.。
It's pale yellow.。
It's really yucky color, right?。
Our understanding of a clean and upright life。
cannot be compared to the holiness of God.。
And so what did Isaiah do when God revealed himself,。
showed himself to him that way?。
Isaiah cried, "Woe to me, I am ruined,。
"for I'm a man of unclean lips,。
"and I live among a people of unclean lips,。
"and my eyes have seen the King, the Lord Almighty."。
In the message translation, he puts it this way,。
"Doom, it's doomsday, I'm as good as dead.。
"Every word I've spoken is tainted, blasphemous even."。
At the sight of this holy Lord,。
Isaiah felt painful at the sinfulness and confessed his sin.。
This was not a script that he knew。
that he needed to recite, nor this is the flow,。
worship is not a flow or a script that he needs to follow.。
This is his honest reaction to confess his sin,。
to repent when he meets the Holy One.。
Worship is not a script.。
Worship is our response when God reveals himself.。
I don't know if you've ever experienced this.。
Maybe you come into worship and you praise,。
but then suddenly the sense of God's holiness。
just overcomes you and you can't sing anymore.。
But you have to do something to respond。
to what God was saying to you at that moment.。
And so whether it's crying or praying。
or kneeling down to confess,。
you were worshiping at the beginning,。
but then you went into a deeper level of worship。
because of what was revealed to you.。
True worship is not about saying the right thing。
and moving the right way.。
True worship is the response we make。
when our hearts are moved by his revelation.。
Isaiah sees God as King of Kings。
and he sees God as the Holy One.。
His whole body, mind and soul was captured。
by God's revelation of himself.。
His reaction was to lower himself and confess his sin.。
And that is his worship to God.。
Worship is the response we make。
when our hearts are moved by his revelation.。
So what do you see when you worship?。
What do you focus on when you step into the space?。
Do you see the band sometimes and just admire them?。
Do you see others and think about。
the relationship you have with them?。
Maybe you have friends here and you step into the space。
and you really wanted to connect with your friends.。
Do you see yourself out of place maybe,。
trying to fit in or do what every other one is doing。
and try to worship as others worship?。
I remember the first time when I stepped。
into the Fine Wan Chai.。
The worship team was singing the most upbeat song,。
trying to get everyone's focus。
and to celebrate God's goodness.。
And I just stepped into the church that time。
feeling very downhearted.。
I just came out of a church that they,。
normally they always told me to sing louder。
and be more hyped because I need to show。
a really good example to the people that is behind me.。
I step out of that kind of work, righteous behavior,。
knowing that I need to do something for the church.。
I need to do something for God to show that I love him.。
But when I step into that atmosphere,。
when I step into the space and hear the song singing,。
God's love never runs out on you.。
His love is forever and he is great and awesome.。
My heart was not going upbeat and saying。
happy, clappy songs.。
My heart actually was broken。
because I know that the love of God。
comes and fills into my heart and I just started crying.。
My worship wasn't the songs that I sing.。
My worship was not the way that I posture myself.。
My worship is the way I broke down。
and I told God that I can't sing anymore.。
My heart is not ready yet, but my tears are coming out。
because I know your love for me is real.。
And I just want to tell you,。
when you come into the space today,。
when you come in and you see friends。
and you see the team and you see。
everything happening so wonderfully,。
also take a moment to see what God is talking to you.。
What is he showing you and revealing to you?。
When we say that true worship。
is not about saying the right thing,。
when we say true worship is the response we make,。
when our hearts are moved by his revelation,。
what is he revealing to you today?。
Is he telling you about his holiness?。
Is he telling you about his greatness?。
How is your heart moved today?。
Let's keep going and read Isaiah chapter six,。
verse six to seven.。
Then one of the seraphim flew to me。
with a life-cold in his hand,。
which he had taken from tongs from the altar.。
When he, with it, he touched my mouth and said,。
"See, this has touched your lips.。
"Your guilt is taken away and your sin atoned for."。
Isaiah is rightly afraid of the fire of the Lord。
that will lash out against him.。
He specifically feel the corruption of his tongue,。
the very instrument of his prophetic ministry.。
And he feels the corruption of his people as well.。
But the Lord of glory is also the Lord of grace.。
And instead of killing the sinner that he deserves,。
he reveals his mercy to Isaiah.。
As the angel touched Isaiah's lips with the life-cold,。
it said, "See, this has touched your lips.。
"Your guilt is taken away and your sin atoned for."。
Not because Isaiah said the right thing。
or he did anything to deserve this,。
nor could he do anything that he could fix his past。
and get his relationship right with God again.。
This is totally God's doing, totally God's extending,。
actively extending his mercy and grace to Isaiah.。
So what do you do when forgiveness of your sin。
and offenses is offered freely like that?。
How do you respond?。
Maybe you could remember a time when you encountered God。
and you became aware of your sin,。
but God also extends his grace and forgiveness to you.。
And what did you do?。
You accepted, you can only accept it.。
And you say, "Thank you, God.。
"I need this forgiveness, thank you."。
And the response is worship, and that is worship.。
No music, no scripted lines,。
but when our hearts is moved by God's revelation,。
our response to him, to honor him,。
to acknowledge him is worship.。
And when our response is our worship to God,。
then we're not only worshiping when we're singing,。
we worship when we see God in prayers,。
we worship by responding by amen.。
When we see God in the preaching of the word。
and we take it to heart and think about it。
and we pray for each other, that is worshiping.。
And when the seeing and responding doesn't stop here,。
the amazing thing is as when we step out of this door。
and into the world and we see God's loving heart,。
we see God's mercy in this world,。
we see what God wants to do in this world,。
and we partner with God to respond to it that way。
by loving our neighbors,。
by serving and diligently in our workplaces,。
by healing and restoring relationship,。
trying our best to forgive or ask for forgiveness,。
we are worshiping God.。
And so we are worshiping God when we respond to him。
inside and outside of this church,。
on Sunday and every other day of the week,。
because he is worthy.。
And so in verse eight, when God reveals his will to Isaiah,。
he responded.。
And so let's look at the scripture together.。
In verse eight it says,。
"Then I heard the voice of the Lord saying,。
'Whom shall I send and who will go for us?'。
And I say, 'Here am I, send me.'"。
Maybe you've been posed by this question before.。
There is always so much to do here and there.。
And maybe there are times when you put your hands up。
because you see the need in teams and ministries.。
And for that, I thank you very much。
from the bottom of our hearts.。
We are so grateful for that。
because this church can only do what churches should do。
because of your contribution,。
because that you see the need。
and you respond to the need or our invitation.。
And I can see that many of you。
are actually serving in different teams。
and not only serving in teams,。
the fact that you're coming into this church today。
is serving each other.。
And I just really am so thankful for that.。
In the morning session, when I was talking to a friend,。
he just came back from a really big surgery.。
He had a big event, had a big surgery,。
and he came back and he said,。
"I am so touched by the fact that my brothers and sisters,。
my family in this church remembers me,。
smiled at me, and just to be with me."。
He was so lonely when he was worshiping。
in this hospital and at home,。
but when he come back and we see chairs are being filled,。
he sees that the family of Christ coming together,。
it heals his heart.。
And your service to God is not just the things that you do,。
but because of who you are,。
that you need to recognize that you are saved by God.。
And the fact that you step into church today,。
worshiping together,。
is your response to God's calling in your life.。
But I hope that as you continue to serve,。
as you continue to move,。
we realize the ultimate reason that we serve。
is not because we're answering to someone's invitation,。
that we're coming here to serve,。
not because we see the needs and we need to fulfill it.。
It's because you see the revelation of God。
moving in your heart,。
that you are not responding to people,。
but you're responding to God.。
In the past, I used to play piano.。
I used to know how to play piano.。
So because of that, my church,。
I've been to a few churches,。
and the churches always ask me to play piano,。
and it just makes me so stressed and in such pain.。
I don't really like playing the piano.。
I'm very bad at it.。
But when they ask, they say,。
"June, but you're the only person。
"that can play the piano now.。
"So you have to step up and play."。
And I step up, but I have a grudge in my heart.。
You know, he had grade A piano too.。
She went to that competition and he won something.。
Why don't they serve?。
Why is it always me?。
And I carry that to serve.。
And although it went well,。
although the church was built,。
my heart is always have a slight scrunch, right?。
And it's not because of the church invitation.。
It's actually because how I see my service.。
I see that I'm fulfilling a spot.。
I'm fulfilling someone's expectation, and so I serve.。
And so the joy was taken out of me.。
Fast forward to the Vine, right?。
Oh, so that's not the end of the story.。
How did I get out of it?。
I had this really expensive piano at home.。
I used to, okay, I had this really expensive piano at home.。
To get out of serving in churches, I just give it away.。
I didn't even wait to sell it.。
I just, "Here you go.。
"I have no piano at home right now.。
"Please don't ask me to play anymore."。
And so that's the end of my musical career in piano.。
But then fast forward to the Vine Yunlong,。
the startup of the Vine Yunlong.。
There was a time when the worship team。
has only one musical player, musician.。
And he was trying really hard to play。
on every single services, right?。
It's not just a Sunday service at that time.。
There were Alva, there were lots of going on,。
and he is the only one.。
And I'm also on the team.。
I was singing at that time.。
And because I want to communicate better with the musician,。
I actually took back piano lessons again.。
And so, don't you...。
(laughs)。
I'm so glad that there's a full team all the time right now.。
They still need people,。
but I know that I don't need to depend on.。
But I'm just going to say that when I respond,。
when you see God's heart in you,。
when you see God's revelation to you,。
that you will step up to serve。
no matter how challenging it is or how difficult it is.。
Because you will then find the strength to serve.。
Then you'll find the joy to serve.。
And that is totally different.。
And I don't even, I don't just,。
this is just my example, by the way.。
I can see lots of brothers and sisters。
and people coming to this church here。
have that same compassion, have that same zeal.。
Just yesterday, Amshanti has this back to school drive。
where they need people to donate。
because there are people who don't have。
enough resources for school.。
Not only people in this church donate。
to this back to school drive,。
they actually go and start giving out。
and loving on the people that need these resources.。
And I just want to say they don't do this。
because they are responding to people's invitation,。
because they receive God's mercy and God's grace,。
and they want to share it that way.。
And I want to talk about the impact that it has.。
So last time when we were in our monthly prayer meeting,。
we prayed specifically for Shanti.。
And they were sharing that the kids there,。
the kids that goes to Shanti,。
sometimes they feel the bully or the discrimination。
from their community, in the schools that they're in,。
or in the neighborhood that they're in.。
And the fact that we go as a community in their community。
to go and love for them, to pray for them,。
not only they're getting the resources,。
not only they're hearing the words of God,。
but they're actually feeling the embrace,。
the love from this community。
that they have received hurt from,。
the Hong Kong community maybe,。
or the schools that they are in,。
that they have experienced this discrimination.。
But because of us going, because of us loving there,。
something shifted and something broke out.。
And I'm just so thankful for the people。
that responded to God's call,。
that they see that they've received God's love,。
and then they spread it out, and then they pour it in.。
And that's worship.。
Worship is not the songs that we sing here,。
but worship is the way that we respond。
when we see the revelation of God's love。
and holiness into our lives.。
And so,。
at the beginning of the worship series,。
Pastor Chapman talked about Romans 12, verse one.。
"In view of God's mercy,。
"offer your bodies as living sacrifices,。
"holy and acceptable to God."。
Doesn't it sound familiar。
with what we talked about in Isaiah today?。
Paul is saying, do you see God's mercy?。
Do you receive this revelation?。
If you do, respond to it by living for God.。
And so, if we do that, if we receive and respond。
in our communities, in our homes, in our workplaces,。
we're all actually moving temples.。
That we're not just coming here and worship。
and then go back to our lives.。
We're actually bringing a part of the temple。
into our workplace, into the broken relationships,。
into the schools, into the neighborhood that we are in,。
so that people can come and see the God。
that revealed Himself.。
That people, through the way that we serve,。
can see the way that God loves,。
and they can come and see this God.。
And so, I urge you,。
in revelation, in view of God's love to you,。
in view of God's mercy to you,。
come and respond to it.。
Maybe you don't have to respond by singing.。
Maybe you are responding。
by extending your forgiveness to people.。
Maybe you are responding by asking for forgiveness.。
Maybe you're responding。
by just doing a really good job at work,。
because you know that you are set apart.。
The way that your colleagues work, maybe don't cut it.。
Maybe it's not the right way,。
even though every single one is doing it.。
But you come into work and you say, "I am set apart,。
and I'm going to respond to God that way in my workplace."。
It may not be the most efficient.。
It may not be the most profitable,。
but this is how I'm going to see myself,。
because I see that God is holy.。
Maybe you step into your school,。
knowing that, "I know I'm not going to be the popular kid,。
but I want to step into this school knowing that God loves me,。
and I want to love those unpopular ones.。
I want to extend this friendly hand,。
this friendliness to the people that often,。
you know, I don't really see eye to eye with."。
Receive God's revelation, church, in our worship today.。
That's why we come.。
That's why we gather.。
We gather not to spend our morning together.。
We come to spend our time together,。
so that when we go out, we carry this revelation with us.。
And I want to invite the worship team to come back up again.。
And as we step into this worship time,。
in response to what God has been revealing to us today,。
I want you to open your hearts.。
I want you to open your hearts and ask God,。
"What have you revealed to me today in church?。
What part of you do I see?。
And how do you want me to respond to you?"。
And so I'm going to let the worship team。
to lead us into a part of worship,。
and let's all stand and worship.。
