Well, when I entered university, I was on academic probation.。
So right from the start, that's how I started off.。
Now, you might wonder why.。
Well, the reason was because I got a very bad score on my SAT exam.。
Now, so if you don't know, SAT exams, you know, they're part of the admission requirements。
and I had to take it.。
But I have to say in all fairness, I did take the exam after being three months in the US.。
I didn't speak English that well, especially when it comes to math.。
So I didn't understand anything math related on the exam, what they were asking me.。
And so I just had a hard time.。
But hey, I made it into college.。
So you know, exactly a reason to celebrate.。
But one of the survival skills that I learned in uni, when I was in uni was that I needed。
to read the course syllabus very carefully.。
So I understand what's going on, right?。
So because usually in the course syllabus, you have the exam dates, very important.。
You have the assignments that are due, like your papers and when they're due.。
And then you also have the information when or how your final grade is calculated.。
You know, what assignment counts, what percentage towards your final grade.。
Now, I didn't pay that close attention my first semester.。
And then you really quickly realize you need to pay attention to that.。
So then I started to look and read.。
And that's amazing how different things are graded by different teachers.。
You know, for some, it's all about the exam.。
Every single thing is about the exam.。
For others, it's mainly about the papers.。
For some, it's about verbal participation, like 30% of your grade or 40% of your grade。
about how you verbally participate.。
And then for others, it's group projects.。
So I learned this mantra or I developed this mantra for myself, which was know what matters.。
You need to know what matters so you can then do what matters.。
And so that's something that I learned early on, that these small things and paying attention。
to these small details can actually make a very big difference in your own personal life.。
And the smallest of details can have the biggest of impact on you.。
And we can actually see this truth in the Gospel of John, in one of the accounts where。
we're told about the resurrection of Jesus.。
And in that, it's this little, in this account from John, there's this little detail that。
a lot of times we just brush over.。
But actually, this detail really provides insights and helping us understand the meaning。
of Easter, the meaning of the resurrection of Jesus.。
And so let me take you to John chapter 20, we're starting in verse one.。
Let's pick it up there.。
It says this.。
Now on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early while it was still。
dark and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb.。
So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved,。
and said to them, "They have taken the Lord out of the tomb and we do not know where they。
have laid him."。
So Peter went out with the other disciple and they were going towards the tomb.。
Both of them were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the。
tomb first.。
Then stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not go in.。
Then Simon Peter came following him and went into the tomb.。
He saw the linen cloth lying there and the face cloth, which had been on Jesus's head,。
not lying with the linen cloths, but folded up in a place by itself.。
Then the other disciples who had reached the tomb first also went in and he saw and believed.。
So John here, he is giving us a personal account of what he found on that very Sunday, that。
first Easter Sunday morning.。
We could also say it's an eyewitness testimony to what he experienced.。
He reports that Mary Magdalene went early in the morning while it was still dark.。
So basically after the Sabbath was finished and then people were allowed to be mobile。
again, so she goes to the grave.。
Apparently he wanted to maybe finish some of the ceremony to put Jesus into the grave.。
And lo and behold, the stone is rolled away.。
And so she runs back to the disciples and she tells them that somebody has taken the。
body of Jesus, that they have put it somewhere else.。
Now one thing I want you to notice here that's interesting is that a lot of times we treat。
ancient people as very naive, like that they were kind of stupid and they didn't really。
get it.。
They so easily believed in the resurrection.。
But I want you to notice with Mary Magdalene, her first thought is not Jesus' body is gone,。
he must have risen.。
Her first thought is that somebody must have stolen the body of Jesus.。
Because ancient people also didn't easily believe in the resurrection.。
It was not their first thought, just like it's not our first thought.。
Now who might have stolen the body?。
Why did she think that?。
Maybe it was some of the Roman soldiers, maybe it was some of the religious leaders, maybe。
it was just grave robbers.。
That was a thing during that time because there was valuable things in the graves.。
And so she assumes that and she tells Peter and John, and this is my favorite part, or。
one of my favorite parts, they run to the tomb and were told that John, who's the disciple。
whom Jesus loved, that he ran faster, he got there first.。
And I actually was searching for a meme, there was a ton of memes on this.。
I couldn't find the one I was looking for but I saw this comment and I was like, you。
know, it just sums this up perfectly.。
It says, "This was the most unnecessary flex of all time."。
Right?。
Where somebody's like showing off.。
It's like, "Hey, I was faster than Peter."。
And by the way, Peter was also an older man so he like outran the old man, right?。
So but why is that in there?。
Why is that in there?。
Well, because it's the account of what actually happened.。
So Peter did outrun, not Peter, John did outrun Peter.。
So he's just reporting what happened even though we like making little jokes about that.。
And so when John gets there, he stoops down, he looks into the tomb and he sees linen strips。
lying there.。
And he doesn't go inside, perhaps because Peter had more seniority among the disciples,。
you know, was a leader among the disciples.。
But it might also be because who knows what would await him in that tomb.。
You know, this beloved Jesus, this leader, and what might he find, especially if the。
tomb had been raided.。
You know, so I mean, there are grievings though.。
This, you know, this was not something you easily, I don't know if you would easily run。
into a grave.。
You know, so but then Peter comes, totally different personality.。
He just rushes right in.。
That's Peter.。
He just rushes into situations.。
And he says right away what he thinks.。
And so, and this is where we find that little detail that so often is overlooked that I。
want to highlight to you.。
So in kind of towards the end of verse six and verse seven, he says, he saw the linen。
cloths lying there and the face cloth, which had been on Jesus's head.。
So that detail that is not mentioned anywhere else besides the gospel of John is the face。
cloth.。
So that's the only place where that's mentioned.。
Now there's also a different way of calling that you can call it a burial shroud.。
So that's the first thing I want to highlight.。
But the second thing, they kind of go together is that face cloth that, you know, had been。
on Jesus's head was not lying with the linen cloth, but folded up and placed by itself.。
So I have an image here, you know, for you to look at of the linen cloth being folded。
up.。
Kind of get an idea of what that might have looked like.。
And this burial shroud right there.。
And now the question we have to ask ourselves is why does John include these details?。
Such a little detail, but why does he decide to record this?。
Well, I think the first thing we need to do is we need to understand what a burial shroud。
is.。
Well, a burial shroud for one was, well, first they wrapped the body with linen cloths.。
It was not mummification, not like Egyptians, but they still wrapped the whole body.。
And then at the end, they placed the burial shroud around the head, like tightly wrapped.。
And that burial shroud symbolizes three things.。
First it's to hide the face from other observers and to give the person who has passed away。
dignity.。
Secondly, it was placed around the head if there was wounds or anything else to cover。
that up.。
And then finally, and that's the most important reason or what the symbolizes is that the。
person actually had truly died.。
They had passed from life to death.。
And so that's what that shroud symbolizes.。
So John, he draws our attention to the seemingly small detail.。
And what he's saying with that is Jesus truly died.。
The execution from the Romans on the cross, it was successful.。
He was not unconscious and then later on woke up.。
He was not just falling asleep.。
You know, Jesus had truly died.。
You would not wrap this burial cloth around a person's head, you know, if they're still。
breathing.。
So death had fully taken its course.。
And so what might seem like a small detail of a much larger narrative of the resurrection。
of Jesus, it's actually the central point of this whole resurrection story.。
But to understand that we actually need to take a step back and we need to take a further。
step back in the biblical story and we need to look at this larger, broader story of humanity.。
So let me do that with you.。
About 700 years before, you know, the empty tomb where Peter and John are standing, Israel。
experienced the most traumatic, painful thing they had gone through.。
And what happened was that Babylon had attacked Israel.。
They had attacked Israel and they had conquered Jerusalem.。
They had destroyed the temple.。
They had killed many people and then they took people captive and they deported them。
to Babylon.。
Now all of this was a consequence of Israel's ongoing sin.。
There was just these cycles of sin and rebellion against God and it didn't stop.。
But I actually want to take us even further back to the beginning of the Bible, to Genesis。
3 in the story of humanity, where humanity, you know, they're not supposed to eat the。
fruit.。
God tells them not to.。
They rebel against God.。
They do it anyhow.。
And the relationship between God and people is impacted by sin.。
So the relationship between God and us and God, us and each other, us and ourselves,。
us and creation, sin runs now right through all of it.。
And there's brokenness in all of those relationships.。
And so the result is clear, right?。
Before the fall, before sin entered the world, these relationships, they flourished, they。
thrived.。
There was wholeness, shalom.。
There was peace.。
And in all those relations between us and God, us and other people, even with ourselves,。
we have peace with ourselves and us and creation.。
But now that sin had entered the world, you know, all those relationships are ruptured。
and we just experience just this brokenness, this pain, this heaviness, and in all of those。
relationships.。
And so then if you keep reading in the Bible from Genesis 4 onwards, it's just the story。
of the sin and this brokenness and this pain unfolding and moving forward.。
Now there's still good things, but there is a lot of pain and there is a lot of brokenness.。
And so we all find ourselves entangled in the story of humanity, every one of us, every。
single person.。
We all have sat in the consequences of sin.。
You know, we all have sat on it.。
You know, whether it's somebody did something to us, a word that was spoken that was hurtful。
and painful, whether it was an action done to us and we just felt the brokenness of that.。
I feel like a lot of times it's also what we did, right?。
That we sit in our own brokenness where we did something, where we said something, a。
word we cannot take back, and that just has ruptured relationship.。
And so we all have felt that.。
And to take that even a little bit further, because sometimes we feel like, you know,。
sin is like just these big things like murdering somebody, you know, and it's not really my。
issue or sin doesn't really run through me in these relationships.。
But just imagine your life on a video displayed right here in front of everyone, every detail。
of your life.。
You know, everything that you said, everything that you thought, like with subtitles.。
And I'm convinced every one of us would be embarrassed by that video.。
Let's never do this, okay?。
Let's never do this.。
I know I would be.。
I would be deeply embarrassed if you would see my video.。
I know.。
And we're not even needing to talk about going back our whole lives.。
We can just go back a month.。
That's probably already enough to deeply embarrass us.。
You know, so what this means is that sin really runs through all of our lives.。
It's just that there's a brokenness, there's a fallenness, there's a pain where we are。
just stuck in the cycle of just, you know, hurting others, being hurt, doing things we。
actually don't want to do, but we do them nonetheless.。
Now going back to the biblical story in the Old Testament, it's a story of people longing。
to be restored with God, longing for that, that what has been disconnected, be reconnected。
with God.。
And it's also the story of God desiring to reconnect with people, to redeem his people,。
to reverse this brokenness.。
And all of this brings us back to this climax, to the story of where Babylon, Egypt, oh my。
gosh, naming all the nations here, where Israel, there you go, I found it.。
Where Israel is sitting just in the trauma of their sin having taken full course and。
they're just sitting in their brokenness, you know, in Babylon.。
And there's reflection and there's just darkness, there's hopelessness.。
And into that moment, God begins to speak about the work that he's going to do, about。
the transformation that he is going to bring.。
And he does that through the prophets.。
And one of the prophets he does that through is the prophet Isaiah.。
And he gives Isaiah this vision.。
And in this vision, Isaiah goes back to Jerusalem, to this hill, this mountain in Jerusalem.。
And it's the mountain where the temple used to stand on, but it was destroyed.。
And Isaiah doesn't just go back to the ruins of the past in this vision, but it is also。
a vision of a future where God is doing something new, where God is doing something powerful,。
where God is doing something beautiful on that very mountain.。
And so I want to show you this picture that God gives Isaiah.。
So we're in Isaiah 25, starting in verse six, and it says this.。
On this mountain, the Lord Almighty will prepare a feast of rich food for all peoples, a banquet。
of aged wine, the best of meats and the finest of wines.。
On this mountain, he will destroy the shroud that unfolds all people, the sheet that covers。
all nations.。
He will swallow up death forever.。
The sovereign Lord will wipe away the tears from all faces.。
He will remove his people's disgrace from all the earth.。
The Lord has spoken in that day.。
They will say, "Surely this is our God.。
We trusted in him and he saved us.。
This is the Lord.。
We trusted in him.。
Let us rejoice and be glad in his salvation."。
Now, do you catch that?。
Do you see what is happening here?。
So 700 years later, Jesus is on this very mountain.。
He has died and then he has risen.。
And Isaiah has this vision of that very same mountain.。
And he sees it as a place where God is going to destroy this burial shroud that wraps up。
everyone, the sheet that covers all nations.。
Isn't that amazing?。
I find that amazing.。
Now what a powerful picture Isaiah paints here of humanity and where it finds itself,。
right?。
He talks about that the shroud that unfolds all peoples and covers all nations.。
It's as if like humanity has these linen strips just wrapped all around them.。
It's as if this burial shroud is around our faces and we're just not free to move.。
We can't break free from these grave clothes that we're wearing.。
And we're not able to be the person that we want to be.。
We can sense it.。
We know it in our hearts.。
We're not fully who we want to be.。
And we're also not the person that God created us to be.。
And in the New Testament in Romans 6, 23, it kind of explains this condition.。
It says, "The wages of sin is death."。
And really that's before there was sin, there was no death.。
When sin has entered the world, death has entered the world.。
And death's purpose is to destroy.。
Sin's purpose wants to bring death to relationships, death through our relationship with God, death。
in all aspects of life.。
And that's as if, you know, Isaiah gives us this picture of we are wrapped up, we are。
entangled and we are just captive, you know, by these clothes and by these shroud.。
And sin enfolds us.。
It's heavy on us.。
It weighs on us.。
And its only goal is to bring us down.。
But this is why this prophetic vision from Isaiah is so important.。
Despite the darkness of humanity's sin that has taken place ever since the fall, Isaiah。
pictures a divine intervention.。
You know, God does not leave us in this darkness, but he has come to liberate us, to set us。
free from this darkness, to break us free.。
God who has the power to step in, and as it says in verse 7 in Isaiah 25, to destroy the。
shroud that unfolds all people, the sheet that covers all nations.。
And note what it says here.。
It says all people, all nations.。
It doesn't just say Israel.。
So this is a greater work of liberation that God will do.。
So God's rescue is for all people in all nations, for anyone who trusts, who believes in him.。
That is the powerful message of Easter.。
And Isaiah shows us in this passage this great reversal.。
You know, there is a turning point in the story of humanity and of our world where sin。
and death are no longer the end of the story.。
You know that he will remove the shroud that unfolds his people, the burial shroud that。
has been weighing us down.。
And it's this picture of that he will wipe away every tear.。
He will remove our shame.。
Isn't that beautiful?。
He will remove our disgrace and our shame, and he will provide for us salvation to all。
who believe in him.。
And so now this brings us back to John and John and Peter standing in the tomb.。
And John tells us that the, in verse seven, that the burial shroud was not lying with。
the linen cloth, but was folded up in a place by itself.。
So did you catch that?。
It was folded up, the burial shroud.。
It was no longer wrapped around Jesus.。
What John is declaring in a small detail is this very prophecy from Isaiah has been fulfilled.。
The shroud that has unfolded all people has been removed through the death and resurrection。
of Jesus.。
The power of sin and death has been broken over our lives.。
Wow, that's amazing.。
That is absolutely amazing.。
So Jesus' resurrection means that sin is defeated, that the power of death is no longer the final。
story.。
It doesn't have to be your final story.。
So as Jesus said on the cross, it is finished.。
You notice this, all this brokenness and separation and hurt and pain, you know, it has come to。
an end when Jesus died and rose and he removes the burial shroud and he creates a path for。
all who place their faith in him, for all who believe in him, you know, to have new。
life in Jesus.。
Can I get an amen?。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Thank you.。
So Jesus has won the decisive victory to liberate us from our sin and to break us free from。
the shroud that has unfolded us.。
And you know, it's in the small details that we can so easily overlook, you know, that。
we actually find a beautiful picture of the meaning of Easter.。
Isn't that beautiful?。
That this burial shroud has been removed, these clothes, they could not contain Jesus.。
He bursts out of them.。
He has broken free.。
He folds it up neatly, sets it aside.。
I'm done with this.。
And you know, it's also like there's all this chaos.。
I love that.。
So Jesus apparently is neat, right?。
He's a neat, neat guy.。
So he brings out in chaos, he brings order.。
You know, in chaos, he brings order.。
So he wants to bring order into your chaotic life.。
He also wants to remove this shroud from your face for anyone who places their trust in。
him, for anyone who believes in him.。
And he wants to remove it and set it aside so that you can be free, that you can live。
the life that God has created for you and that sin and death is no longer the end of。
your story.。
So I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
And Jesus's resurrection, the burial shroud of death is lifted off the faces of all those。
who believe in him.。
Jesus's resurrection is a joyful declaration that a new age, a new time has begun.。
It's a time where death is replaced with life, where mourning and pain, they're replaced。
with dancing and with joy, where tears are replaced with praise.。
Now we still know the impact of sin in our lives.。
We still know that even when we know Jesus, but it is no longer the end of our story.。
And so I want to actually extend an invitation to anyone who would like to place their faith。
in Jesus, you know, who would like to experience this being set free from these grave clothes。
that entangle us and experience this new life that Jesus gave.。
John, at the beginning of his gospel, he says, he's talking about Jesus, "To all who did。
receive him, to those who believed in him, he gave the right to become children of God."。
So I just want to give this opportunity to receive and to believe in Jesus and to experience。
what it means to be a child of God.。
That's why we're celebrating Easter today, and I want you to join in on the celebration。
with us.。
So the way I'm going to do that is I'm going to lead you in a prayer.。
And if you want to become a Christian, if you want to receive this new life that Jesus。
gives, and the way you can make this your own is basically you repeat it in your heart。
quietly.。
And you know, you just talk yourself to Jesus, but I'll give you some guidance on how to。
do that.。
And so I'll do that right now.。
I'll lead us in a prayer.。
Let's pray.。
Jesus, thank you so much that you love us so much.。
I now want to turn away from all the bad stuff in my life.。
And if there's any sins that you need to ask for forgiveness for right now, actually take。
a moment to do that.。
Just tell Jesus, "I'm sorry for these things."。
And let me continue with a prayer.。
Thank you, Jesus, that you died for me so that I can be set free and forgiven.。
I now receive your forgiveness and I place my trust in you.。
Jesus, will you come into my heart by your Holy Spirit and will you make me your child。
forever?。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Now, I want to ask if anyone has prayed this prayer, if you can give me a little wave.。
I can't really see much anyhow, but yeah.。
So if you've prayed this prayer, if you made us your own, this really is a turning point.。
Sometimes you feel immediately, this is just changing you, this weight lifted off you.。
Other times it comes over time.。
We would love to encourage you in that step that you've taken and encourage you in that。
journey.。
So if you would share with us, we can do that.。
But I want to invite right now everyone to stand and we'd love to pray over all of us.。
Jesus, we thank you so much that you came to this earth to rescue, to redeem us, that。
you love us so much.。
We thank you that you laid down your life, though you were innocent, you didn't do anything。
wrong, but you took, you bore our sin on the cross so that we can be forgiven, that we。
can have new life in you, that we can have resurrection life in you.。
And Jesus, I pray that today on this Easter where we celebrate that you died and rose,。
where we celebrate that you removed that burial shroud that has been weighing us down for。
anyone who believes in you.。
Lord, I pray that you fill us up again with your joy, with this joy of the Holy Spirit。
of this work that you have done, that you have overcome sin and that you have overcome。
death.。
Lord, I also want to pray for anyone who is struggling.。
Just because we're Jesus followers, just because we're Christian doesn't mean that we don't。
still struggle with things, that we don't struggle with sin and brokenness, though.。
But I just pray for your grace right now.。
Thank you that your forgiveness is always available.。
And I pray that you would just flood our lives, that you would flood us with your grace.。
And so we give you all the praise, all the glory, and we thank you for this beautiful。
day.。
We remember that you have risen, Jesus.。
I pray this in your name.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
