Now, one of the most common questions when you go to a job interview。
is describe a challenge you faced and how you overcame it.。
Now, I'm curious to hear who here has been asked that question in a job interview.。
All right, so a few people. Okay.。
Now, I myself, when I interview people, actually do ask that question as well。
because I want to hear what challenges has this person faced,。
how did they deal with them, were they resilient,。
did they figure out a way to solve the problem, are they adaptable,。
do they have a positive mindset about what's going on?。
And there's also something telling when you don't have anything to share,。
like when there is no challenge that you can think of.。
And so for me, that's one of the questions I asked.。
But work challenges is one thing and they can be a major thing.。
But what about all the other things in life, all the other challenges that we face?。
And I'm actually wondering what challenges you are facing right now.。
You know, what are some of the things that you are walking through that are not that easy?。
And how are you doing with coping with those things?。
Are you confident and you're like, yeah, I'm going to tackle this,。
you got that fight in you and you're dealing with it?。
Or has this thing been grinding and going on and you're actually worn out and tired?。
And maybe there's some despair with what's going on.。
You know, is there faith? Does your faith play a role in how you navigate this?。
Or even like, God, where are you?。
Like, what are you doing here? Why am I going through this?。
And so what I want to do with you in the sermon series, in this message today,。
is I want to explore with you the question, how do you respond to life's challenges and setbacks?。
You know, how do you do that?。
And we're going to look at what does God's word have to say to us。
about dealing with challenges and setbacks in our life?。
And how might he encourage us today and speak to us so that we can face,。
you know, whatever it is that we're going through, that he can give us some guidance,。
some perspective on how to go through that.。
And I want to also say, if you're not going through a challenge, praise God, right?。
That's awesome.。
But this is also, I think, helpful for as you help other people。
who are facing challenges right now to walk with them through that.。
So I think there's something here for everyone in this message.。
So we're going to continue in our sermon series through the book of,。
or it's not actually the book of Genesis, it's the story of Joseph.。
And so this is the fourth sermon in the series.。
And we're picking up at a point where Joseph's life is not working out。
the way he probably dreamed or hoped for.。
So he went from being the favorite son, who had privilege, who had position,。
who had a special robe.。
He went from that to getting all of that stripped from him.。
Like actually the robe literally taken from him, betrayed cold-bloodedly。
by his brother, sold into slavery.。
And so he's on the way to Egypt in a caravan.。
And we're going to pick up the story when Joseph arrives in Egypt.。
So let me take you to Genesis 39, we're starting in verse 1, it says this.。
Now Joseph had been taken down to Egypt.。
Part of an Egyptian who was one of Pharaoh's officials,。
the captain of a guard, bought him from the Ishmaelites,。
who had taken him there.。
The Lord was with Joseph, so that he prospered.。
And he lived in the house of his Egyptian master.。
When his master saw that the Lord was with him, and that the Lord gave him。
success in everything he did, Joseph found favor in his eyes and。
became his attendant.。
Potiphar put him in charge of his household, and。
he trusted to his care everything he owned.。
From the time he put him in charge of his household and all that he owned,。
the Lord blessed the household of the Egyptian because of Joseph.。
The blessing of the Lord was on everything Potiphar had,。
both in the house and in the field.。
So Potiphar left everything he had in Joseph's care.。
With Joseph in charge, he did not concern himself with anything,。
except the food he ate.。
Now, this is a quite impressive way that Joseph seems to be dealing with。
these adverse circumstances that he's in.。
And I don't know if you know these social media posts where people,。
like they post a picture and they say, caption this.。
Anyone?。
You've seen those, right?。
Are you one of the people who actually comments on that,。
who writes a caption?。
So if you picture Joseph's life right now, I mean, he's a slave in Egypt.。
He's in a foreign country.。
His life is totally not turning out the way he pictured.。
And we look at this as a picture, and we'd say, caption this.。
What caption would you write over his life?。
Is it like, the fall of Joseph?。
Or Joseph in the pit?。
I mean, those are the captions probably that, if we're honest,。
that we would write over his life, right?。
So it's fascinating that the biblical narrator,。
that he gives it quite a different caption.。
Cuz he says, the Lord was with Joseph, so that he prospered.。
That's the caption that the narrator puts over Joseph's life at this point in time.。
Now, that's crazy.。
I mean, how we're supposed to understand this?。
He's in the most undesirable circumstance.。
I mean, he's in slavery.。
He's fallen low.。
How can this be true?。
And if you think of your own life, like when we're doing well,。
maybe we would put that as a caption over our life.。
The Lord was with Tim, when everything was working out perfect and well.。
But we wouldn't put that over those times when we're going through a difficult time,。
or at least not it would be the first thing that would come to our mind.。
But the narrator, he alerts us to a truth.。
And this actually goes back to the covenant promise that God has made with。
Abraham, with Isaac, with Jacob.。
And that covenant promise is now also true for Joseph.。
That the Lord is with Joseph.。
He has not abandoned him.。
He is not alone.。
He's with him, even in that darkest moment of his life.。
So the Lord was with Joseph.。
Now, the narrator also highlights something else that's absolutely fascinating.。
In verse three, it says, when his master saw that the Lord was with him.。
How do you see when you look at somebody else's life that the Lord is with him?。
What does that life look like if somebody looks at you in your workplace,。
or in your home, even in your family?。
How do they see that the Lord was with you?。
That there is this tangible difference in your life that they can see that.。
And so part of her sees this in Joseph's life.。
And again, this is remarkable because he just went through this traumatic,。
difficult experience.。
But yet he's somehow carrying himself differently.。
That it stands out to part of her that the Lord was with him.。
I mean, he's observing him in the workplace.。
And there must have, so part of her must have been one of the wealthiest people。
in Egypt.。
So this is like a huge household.。
There's a ton of people there.。
And Joseph sticks out.。
Now we're told that one of the reasons why he sticks out is because everything he。
touches prospers.。
So there's that aspect, but that is not everything.。
There's more to it.。
Joseph is seeking to honor the Lord, to give him glory with his work.。
Again, that's remarkable.。
It would be so understandable if he had a bad attitude, right?。
I mean, you just had this horrible experience.。
You're in a place you don't wanna be.。
You have a job you didn't choose.。
You just have to do it.。
And it'd be easy to just have a bad attitude, right?。
But Joseph doesn't have a bad attitude.。
He's carrying himself differently, and part of her notices that.。
And then we're told that in verse five, it says,。
you know that God brought prosperity to part of her in the house and in the field.。
So that means that every aspect of part of her business, he was flourishing.。
And the only thing he had to concern himself with was what he was gonna eat.。
Now that's an incredible employee, right?。
If you have somebody working for you, and the only thing you have to be concerned。
about is what you eat, because you know that person is gonna take care of what。
you need, what needs to be taken care of.。
And I don't know about you, but for me, when I think of my own life,。
and I just wonder, are people able to see that the Lord is with me in my life?。
Is there a tangible difference that they can observe in my life?。
I want that.。
I hope that.。
Probably sometimes, maybe not always.。
And what about you in your workplace, in your family?。
Is that something that people can observe,。
that the Lord is with you by the way you carry yourself?。
But let's see how things continue.。
So things seem to be going quite well, right?。
They're on the uppity up with Joseph, but let's continue in verse six.。
Now Joseph was well built and handsome.。
Now the Bible usually doesn't comment on looks that much, but。
in this case they do.。
So you know if the Bible says it's true, right?。
[LAUGH] So he must have been a good looking guy.。
And after a while, his master's wife took notice of Joseph and。
said, come to bed with me.。
But he refused.。
With me in charge, he told her.。
My master does not concern himself with anything in the house.。
Everything he owns, he has entrusted to my care.。
No one is greater in this house than I am.。
My master has withheld nothing from me except you, cuz you are his wife.。
How then could you do such a wicked thing and sin against God?。
And though she spoke to Joseph day after day, and。
he refused to go to bed with her or even be with her.。
Now just think of this situation.。
Every day at work, somebody who is more powerful than you。
is trying to pressure you to go to bed with him.。
I mean, she's like super straightforward, right?。
Like it's kind of shocking.。
For ancient context, you would think they wouldn't do that.。
But they're like, hey, sleep with me.。
And we have to remember also the power dynamic.。
Joseph is a slave.。
He's not an empowered person.。
Yes, he's in charge of all these things, but。
he's still not in the position of power.。
So there's a huge power dynamic between part of his wife and Joseph.。
So there might be sexual temptation.。
We don't know.。
We're actually not told clearly.。
I mean, he is a single guy.。
Maybe there was that.。
But I think the thing that is there for sure is the pressure from somebody who's。
your boss telling you what to do.。
And then you have a choice to make.。
Am I gonna do what my boss is asking me to do?。
And then maybe I can get away, just stay in my position, stay okay.。
Or do I say no?。
And so we probably have experienced something like that in our workplaces。
where somebody asks us to do something that's not right.。
And we're faced with this choice, are we gonna do it to please that person,。
to maybe keep our job?。
Or are we gonna do what honors God, but there might be a cost to it for us?。
So again, it's like a very real life example.。
We also have these temptations in the workplace.。
We also have these pressures in the workplace.。
And what does Joseph do?。
Well, he says no to her advances.。
He basically shuts her down and he explains to her, hey,。
your husband hasn't trusted everything to me.。
I don't wanna break that trust from your husband.。
And then even worse, I don't wanna sin against God.。
I wanna do what honors God, what gives him glory, what gives him praise.。
But part of his wife, she does not take no for an answer.。
Every day, she's pushing him to go to bed with her.。
I mean, what a horrible, difficult work environment and experience.。
But let's see what happens next, and let's continue in verse 11.。
One day he went into the house to attend to his duties, and。
none of the household servants was inside.。
She caught him by his cloak and said, come to bed with me.。
But he left his cloak in her hand and ran out of the house.。
When she saw that he had left his cloak in her hand and had run out of the house,。
she called her household servants, look, she said to them,。
this Hebrew has been brought to us to make sport of us.。
He came in here to sleep with me, but I screamed.。
And when he heard me scream for help, he left the cloak beside me and。
ran out of the house.。
She kept his cloak beside her until his master came home.。
Then she told him his story.。
The Hebrew slave you brought us came to me to make sport of me.。
But as soon as I screamed for help, he left his cloak beside me and。
ran out of the house.。
When his master heard the story, his wife told him,。
saying this is how your slave treated me.。
He burned with anger, and Joseph's master took him and。
put him in prison, the place where the king's prisoners were confined.。
So Joseph suddenly finds himself in the house alone with part of his wife.。
And apparently he's been trying to avoid that.。
Maybe she's cleared out everyone, we don't know.。
And this time, instead of even just proposing for。
him to come to bed with him, she actually tries to grab him, tries to pull him in.。
And then he again does the right thing.。
He flees, runs out, but the cloak is left behind.。
And then she cites a scream, and she calls a servant and she tells a lie.。
She doesn't tell the truth of what happens.。
She's covering up for herself.。
And also I think it's a way of getting to Joseph because he's not doing what she。
wanted him to do.。
And so it's interesting in how she tells a story.。
It's really twisted.。
The first thing she calls him this Hebrew.。
Instead of calling him Joseph, she gives him a label.。
It's a little bit like saying this immigrant, or something like that.。
Where it stirs some emotions for。
some people that are not positive towards a group of people.。
So she's doing that to try to win over some of the other people in the house.。
Then the second thing he says is that he tried to make sport of us.。
So it's not just like he tried to make sport of me.。
When she talks to the servant, she's saying he tried to make sport of us.。
Now what does she mean by that?。
It's like Joseph's attempt to rape me is really an attempt to mess with all of us.。
That's what she's saying.。
And she's trying to rally the servants behind her with what she's sharing.。
And then the husband comes home.。
And it's also interesting what happens there because she talks about。
this slave that you brought here.。
It's about who, so she's of course blaming Joseph for。
what supposedly happened, but she's also putting responsibility on the husband.。
It's like you brought this guy in our house.。
You're responsible for this.。
And then we were told that Joseph, he responds with anger.。
That's also interesting because who is he angry at?。
It's actually not clear.。
And so the biblical scholars, as I was preparing for the sermon,。
some of them believe that he actually didn't fully believe his wife.。
And the reason is because he didn't put Joseph to death.。
Cuz he could have put him to death.。
But he put him in prison, which seems like for his position and。
who Joseph was, a surprising move.。
And so there's some ambiguity around who did he really believe.。
But he had to do something because his wife makes this claim.。
He couldn't ignore it even to save his own face in front of everyone else,。
his whole household.。
Now just imagine Joseph's life.。
So he, because of evil of his brother, he's brought into slavery.。
He has these horrible experiences.。
And then now, just when things seem to be going better, he sinks even lower.。
It even gets worse.。
Now he's accused of something he didn't do.。
He doesn't have a chance to defend himself, and he is in prison.。
Now let's continue reading a story, and。
we're actually gonna finish here our section in scripture.。
So continue in verse 20.。
But while Joseph was there in prison, the Lord was with him.。
He showed him kindness and granted him favor in the eyes of the prison warder.。
So the warder put Joseph in charge of all those in the prison.。
And he was made responsible for all that was done there.。
The warder paid no attention to anything under Joseph's care.。
Because the Lord was with Joseph and gave him success in whatever he did.。
Now this is again incredible because the caption over even this yet。
lower point in his life is again, the Lord was with Joseph.。
How can this possibly be?。
And then in addition to it, actually we're also told that。
the Lord, he showed him kindness.。
Now the word for kindness is actually a lot stronger.。
It's a lot richer than what it reads.。
It's the word hased, the Hebrew hased.。
It means loving kindness, steadfast love, tender love, faithful love,。
unfailing love, compassion, mercy, kindness, and loyalty.。
And so God is showing Joseph hased in this darkest moment of his life.。
He's shown him this kindness, this faithfulness,。
this loving kindness in this pit, in this dark place.。
That's incredible, that's amazing.。
And we wonder, no, there's one thing about theoretically affirming that.。
But there's another thing when you actually can feel that hased love and。
actually receive and know that it's true,。
that you are not alone, that God is with you.。
And so then we're again told that Joseph prospers,。
that he's put in charge of everything, he does an amazing job.。
The water doesn't have to worry about anything.。
And so that's where we are gonna leave off the story.。
But all of this, in the story there's two major temptations that Joseph faced.。
The first temptation is the very obvious one that we already talked about,。
putt of fur, whether it's giving in to work pressure,。
whether it was a sexual temptation, whatever it was.。
That was the one we already looked at.。
But I think there's actually a stronger and more powerful temptation。
throughout this narrative,。
the sexual scripture that we looked at that Joseph faced.。
And that's the temptation of despair.。
Now what do I mean by that, temptation of despair?。
Well, when you're doing what's right, what honors God, and。
then stuff just gets worse, and。
things don't turn out the way you hoped for, it's easy to despair.。
It's easy to get so discouraged.。
You're like, does it even make sense?。
Do I even wanna still follow God?。
Do I even still wanna do what's right?。
And we become hopeless, we become discouraged.。
So that's the temptation of despair, and I think that throughout this,。
I mean, this temptation is right there.。
And this brings me back to the question I asked at the beginning of the sermon.。
How do you respond to life's challenges and setbacks?。
What do we do?。
Joseph, he didn't just have one setback, he had multiple setbacks.。
And how do we handle that?。
I think it's so difficult to resist that temptation,。
just give up and say, screw it, forget it, whatever, I'm done.。
God, I've given you my shot, I'm just done.。
And then to be angry, and just to be frustrated.。
And I wonder, of course we don't have access to this, but。
I wonder what Joseph's inner dialogue in his mind was.。
God, I served you, even when you brought me into slavery,。
I was faithful to you, I did what was right, I did what honors you,。
even though it was hard.。
And then you bring me here and it's even worse.。
So we can only imagine what dialogue Joseph would have had, but。
we might know what dialogue we have, right?。
And some of us here, we're going through setbacks and challenges,。
and there's also this temptation of despair.。
The temptation to just say, I'm done, I don't have anything in myself anymore.。
And I don't wanna, we struggle to trust and。
believe that God is good, we struggle to trust that he's good.。
And that he means it well with our lives.。
And we're just at this point of being defeated.。
But there is some encouragement in this passage for us.。
And I wanna share two things at the story of Joseph.。
For those of you who are finding yourself right now in this moment of。
temptation of despair, to encourage you to hold on, to keep trusting in God,。
to keep walking with him, and I wanna share those two things with you.。
The first one is, I believe that God gives us integrity and character tests.。
I mean, Joseph went through some testing of what was in there.。
And the tests, I think they're not so much for God, I think they're more for us.。
That we even can see what's inside of our heart or maybe what's not there,。
and then what God's inviting us to go towards.。
Now we cannot always control what happens to us in our lives.。
Sometimes we make dumb choices or not smart choices and。
we find ourselves in difficult situations.。
But then still we still have to deal with it.。
And then other times things happen to us, like we didn't do anything, but。
life just happens to us.。
And so we can't control those things.。
But what we can control is how do we respond?。
How do we choose to respond to what happens to us?。
How do we choose to respond to the situation that way?。
And even if it was of our own causing, you can't change that now,。
it already happened.。
But how do you respond now?。
Are we gonna remain faithful to God?。
Or do we turn from him, blame him in anger for what we're going through?。
God allows you to go through difficulties because he wants to build a more mature。
character and faith into your life.。
He wants to build something more resilient, something stronger inside of you.。
Now James, the brother of Jesus, in his letter to Christians spread throughout。
the Mediterranean world, Christian communities, so James 1, verse 2,。
he says this.。
Consider it pure joy, my brothers and sisters,。
whenever you face trials of many kind.。
Because you know that the testing of your faith produces perseverance.。
That perseverance finishes work so that you may be mature and complete,。
not lacking anything.。
So as Christians, when we face trials, it says here, and。
it sounds a little crazy, consider it joy.。
It's like, I don't know if that's usually our response.。
But I always wanna be clear what that not means.。
It doesn't mean that we have to rejoice in the evil thing that has happened.。
That's actually not what it's saying.。
What we rejoice in is who God is, who can take this evil thing and。
he can turn it into working something good into our lives.。
That's what we're having joy over.。
Big difference, right?。
I think so.。
And so we have this choice.。
Do we say yes to this refining work of God in our lives?。
Do we submit to it?。
Do we wrestle with God?。
Do we pour our heart to him, cry out to him, but stay engaged with him?。
And let him work something inside of our heart,。
a faith that is greater than we've ever had.。
Faith that is stronger, that is more resilient.。
A maturity, a character that looks more like Jesus。
than the one that we've been holding prior.。
Or do we go through this and。
just say we get angry, we blame God, and we don't engage in that process.。
And we're just frustrated, we're angry, and that's all we're doing.。
And I think we can all have sympathy for either response, right?。
Because difficult things are happening.。
But the story of Joseph really encourages us to lean in so we can experience and。
actually see God's goodness, that we can see God's faithfulness.。
That when we go through the refining process, that we can come through on。
the other end and give a testimony to what God has done in our life,。
what he has worked in our hearts.。
But you're only gonna see it if you're willing to go through it with God.。
Cuz just going through trial doesn't mean you automatically,。
God does something in you.。
It's when we're submitted to him, when we're wrestling with him.。
That's when he builds in that perseverance, that maturity into hearts.。
And so that's what God is inviting us.。
And we see that in Joseph.。
I mean, twice, going through horrible things, but yet choosing to honor God.。
And it's interesting, as you continue reading the story,。
now we don't see that in our section yet.。
But Joseph sees later on what God was doing.。
Joseph was faithful in the little things.。
He was faithful as part of his steward and administrating it and。
having, worshipping God through that job.。
He was faithful in the prison when he was entrusted responsibilities.。
And then later on, God is preparing him because he's faithful in the little。
things to later on be the main administrator,。
second highest ranking person in the Egyptian empire.。
To save, to collect food during seven years of plenty and。
then later on distribute it.。
But it's like it took this phase beforehand to work these things into。
Joseph's life so that he was ready for what God had for him for the future.。
And I wanna encourage you with that.。
We don't understand why is God working perseverance into our character?。
Why is he building a stronger faith and resilience?。
Now we don't know, but he has a reason.。
He's preparing us for。
something greater that he has for us to do in the future.。
So I want you to be encouraged that God is at work.。
He's doing something and he's gonna lead you to something better.。
Because you know him in a different way than if you were not to walk with him。
through the difficulty, so that's the first thing.。
The second thing that we can learn from Joseph's story,。
if you're facing the temptation of despair is this.。
Joseph's story assures us that the Lord is with you in your trials.。
The caption over Joseph's life in this darkest hour is the Lord is with Joseph.。
That's amazing.。
And if you're a Christian, if you're a Jesus follower, this is also true of you.。
Like I said, when we're going through difficult stuff,。
most of the time we don't think of putting that caption over our lives.。
But the truth is that the Lord is with you and he's writing that over your life.。
You are not alone.。
He is by your side and he wants to show you his chassé, love, his loving kindness.。
Now many of you know part of my own journey.。
If you're interested, I'm not gonna go into all the details.。
If you're interested, you can listen to it.。
There is no other name.。
It was a sermon in the Longing for Healing sermon series last year.。
But I, now quite a while ago, I was left in my first marriage.。
My spouse left me.。
And I didn't see it coming.。
I was caught off guard.。
And it really, you know, it was like pulling a rug from underneath my feet.。
And I was a pastor at the time already.。
So theoretically, I know that the Lord is with me.。
But I didn't feel like the Lord was with me.。
I felt like the Lord had left me.。
You know, I felt like, I was like, and I even, I was like, Lord, I served you.。
Why is this happening to me?。
And so I was going through this dark, difficult, you know, time.。
And I wasn't, you know, I had stopped working as a pastor.。
I didn't have a home at that moment.。
I didn't, there was uncertainty about the relationship.。
So everything was falling apart.。
And I started meeting with a spiritual director.。
And just processing all that was happening.。
And it was just a lot of like just dark processing.。
And then about three months into all of this, he told me,。
Tim, do you see how much God loves you?。
And I was like, come on.。
What are you talking about, God loving me?。
It's like, no, so then he reflected back to me some of the things that I'd shared with him.。
And, you know, one of the things was that a family in the church that I used to pastor,。
that they took me into their family.。
So I had a home to live in.。
And I was just going to be undercover, you know, stay out of their way, not bother them.。
But they invited me into their life.。
I ate meals with them.。
I went shopping with them at Costco.。
Bought way too much things there.。
And so the spiritual director was saying, Tim, God loves you.。
You know, he's showing you incredible love in your circumstances, you know, through these people.。
And on my own, I would have not been able to see that.。
But so the caption over my life was, the Lord is with you.。
And, you know, Jesus in the New Testament, he promises us that right before he ascends into heaven.。
And then Matthew 28, 20 says, "And surely I'm with you always to the very end of the age."。
God promises us, Jesus promises us his presence.。
The Lord is with you.。
So whatever you're facing, whatever's going on, whatever challenge you're walking through,。
you might not feel like God is with you, but the Lord is with you.。
That's the caption, even over this challenging time that you are facing.。
This is the caption over your life, and that is the truth.。
Now I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
Now for those of us who are facing this temptation of despair,。
you know, where we're like, I'm just tired.。
I'm just tired.。
So I want to encourage you with those two things.。
The first thing is that God is testing you.。
He's working faith.。
He's working something in your life that is not there.。
He's strengthened you.。
He's making you more in his image.。
You reflect his character more.。
And that is preparing you for something that you cannot even know about yet.。
But maybe one day when you look back, you can see why you needed to go through this challenge.。
So be encouraged by that.。
God is at work in your life.。
He's working something into you, something stronger, something more beautiful, something more powerful.。
And the second thing is God loves you.。
The Lord is with you.。
He wants to show you his chassé love, his loving kindness, his compassion, his faithfulness in what you're going through.。
So I want to invite everyone to stand.。
I would just love to pray over you.。
If you are going through challenges right now, and you just want to express to God,。
God, I just need you to work in my life.。
I just need you to meet you.。
I'm tired.。
I want to invite you to stretch out your hands just in front of you, and I just want to pray over you.。
Jesus, you see every single hand stretched out here right now.。
Lord, I pray that as we've thought today, that this truth that you are with every single person,。
that they are not alone,。
that this will not become just words, but you will tangibly people experience your chassé love,。
your loving kindness, your faithfulness in the challenge that they are facing, that they know you are present.。
So Holy Spirit, I pray that you make this love known in a tangible way,。
that they can see you, that they can feel you, encourage you people, Lord.。
We ask for that.。
We long for that.。
Holy Spirit,。
fill your people with your love.。
Lord, I also pray that you give perspective on what you're doing,。
that you're working something into people's lives, something beautiful.。
So I pray that you encourage my brothers and my sisters right now,。
that you are doing a beautiful work as they're holding on to you,。
that you're working something new, something stronger, something more resilient,。
something that reflects you more into their hearts.。
May you strengthen your people right now, Lord.。
And so Lord, I entrust my brothers and sisters to you, the challenge that they face.。
May you lead them through what is going on,。
and may they come out stronger, knowing your faithfulness, your provision, and your love.。
I pray all this in your mighty name, Jesus. Amen.。
