Amen.。
So right now I want to invite up Pastor Chapman.。
Let's give him a warm welcome.。
Yes.。
Love this guy.。
Hey, so excited.。
He today, he did double duty.。
He's preaching, preaching Cantonese.。
Now he's going to switch to English.。
I hope.。
Yeah, maybe if he feels like it.。
Yeah, but let's, let's pray for Chapman.。
Let's pray for us as we prepare our hearts so you can stretch out your hands towards。
him and let me pray for us.。
Jesus, thank you so much for Chapman and his love for you, his love for your word, his。
desire to proclaim you.。
And I pray that you would powerfully would speak through him today as the words that。
you have given him for us, that you will move by your Holy Spirit and that we will, yeah,。
have what we, what I said earlier, that, that we are here with a purpose because you want。
to speak to us and that you would speak to us and that you will bring life and change。
and freedom through the words that Chapman preaches.。
So pray for also your Holy Spirit anointing and blessing on him and strengthen energy。
and pray all this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Thank you, Pastor Tim.。
Can we put a hand together for Pastor Tim?。
Ah, summer holidays.。
Anyone enjoying summer right now?。
Anyone here?。
No.。
One or two of you.。
Okay, that's good.。
That's good enough.。
So summer holiday, we always have mixed feelings, right?。
If you're a student, you know, it's the most wonderful time in the year.。
If you're a parent, that means you start to, okay, what I'm going to do with my kid during。
summer.。
For me, I was a bit, I can't say I'm lucky, but my wife and my daughters, they're actually。
in Singapore.。
They've been in Singapore for a week.。
So I lived on my own for a week and it feels very strange.。
She's listening, okay?。
So better don't say that.。
I think she's watching.。
I just feel very awkward.。
I haven't been living a single life for a very long time.。
And you can imagine the dishes that pile up in my kitchen, laundry.。
Okay, I did my laundry yesterday.。
But anyway, beginning of summer, I still remember when I was primary five.。
The week before summer holiday started, I was 11 years old back then.。
So in school, we normally, in local schools, we call it the post-exam period.。
Basically there's no class.。
Teacher's not going to teach anymore.。
We're just freely like have fun.。
So we bring all kinds of chess, Uno, Jenga, everything that we're going to enjoy this。
afternoon with the youth group, we did it during that period of time, post-exam period.。
So that was really the most exciting time of the year for students.。
Until one particular morning, my teacher, she brought a whole pile of books into the。
room and she started distributing them.。
And if you're like me, you grew up in a local school system, every summer we got something。
to do.。
That's a summer holiday workbook.。
What an oxymoron.。
The most evil invention ever in human history, you know?。
That's not right.。
That's injustice.。
Imagine, I'm not joking, imagine this.。
Imagine you're going to start your annual leave tomorrow and today your boss call you。
up and give you work to do.。
What will you say?。
That's injustice, right?。
That's the most evil invention ever in human history, period.。
So that summer, I made up my mind.。
I said, I'm not going to let this book, this 80-page book ruin my freedom, the joy of my。
freedom in the summer holiday.。
So as soon as that book landed on my desk, I turn it over, I flip over, I wrote my name。
down and then I flip another page and I started writing on it.。
By the end of that school day, like before I went home, I finished 20 pages of that book.。
But I didn't stop there because my goal is to enjoy the freedom of my summer.。
I'm not going to let my parents tell me, "Hey, have you finished your summer homework?"。
I'm going to enjoy it.。
So within one or two days, I just keep doing it, keep doing it, and I finished the entire。
book before summer holiday even started.。
So I was so excited that evening when my dad came back from work.。
I was just so eager to tell him I was expecting a little bit of compliment.。
So I said, "Dad, I finished the entire summer workbook."。
And this is what he said, "Oh, what?。
You finished your entire summer holiday workbook?。
Then what are you going to do throughout the summer?"。
I guess now I'm going to go buy some more exercise for you.。
Within a split second, one of my greatest achievement by far in my 11 years of life。
has turned into one of my greatest mistakes in life.。
Freedom, right?。
We all want freedom.。
Freedom is something that is encoded in our human DNA.。
Can I get an amen for that?。
Who doesn't love freedom, right?。
Even my one and a half year old daughter, she understands what is freedom or she demonstrates。
her eager desire for freedom.。
Whenever I'm holding Mabel, she will struggle.。
She will want to get down and run around.。
Whenever she's done with dinner, the first thing she does is to try to get rid of her。
harness or the seatbelt and try to get down, jump off the chair.。
Even a one and a half year old baby, they understand the idea of freedom, which is the。
absence of any external constraints or interference that limits one's actions or choices.。
For my one year old, the external constraint is actually that seatbelt or sometimes her。
father's arms.。
For an 11 year old version of me, that external constraint was actually that 80 page summer。
holiday workbook that is restricting me from enjoying the freedom of my summer holiday.。
I'm sure many of us in this room, I'm sure in different stages, different periods of。
life, we all face certain external constraints or interference in life that are limiting。
your choices or limiting your actions.。
Something like maybe you have very long working hours that is restricting you from really。
getting a life, affecting your work-life balance.。
Or maybe it's an economic external constraint, which could be a debt or could be a health。
constraint such as an illness, be it physical or mental, or it could be expectations coming。
from your family, coming from your friends, your bosses, your colleagues, or even social。
norms or discriminations that you want to get rid of, you want to be set free from.。
As human beings, we face different external constraints in our lives and we desire freedom.。
More precisely, we desire freedom from all these constraints.。
So a political philosopher, his name is Isaiah Berlin, he described this kind of freedom,。
namely the freedom from something.。
He called it, this absence of external constraints, he called it a negative freedom.。
So don't worry, the use of the word negative doesn't imply it's a bad thing.。
It simply points to the fact that there indeed is another kind of freedom in human life.。
And yes, you would have guessed it, it's called positive freedom.。
While negative freedom, it's a freedom from something, positive freedom, on the other。
hand, is the freedom to do something, to achieve something.。
It goes beyond the absence of external constraints and highlights the presence of certain conditions。
or opportunities or resources that would enable an individual to pursue their goals or to。
fulfill their potentials.。
For example, we have free basic education here in Hong Kong for our kids, for our next。
generation that actually enables them to choose what they want to do in the future.。
We try to prepare them as much as possible.。
Because of this free education, they have a choice in the future, they have freedom。
to choose.。
And also, since we promote gender equality in workplaces, we want to make sure even females。
or people from different genders, they have equal opportunity, they have the freedom to。
choose what they want to do.。
So these are examples of positive freedoms.。
So the bottom line is, for humans to flourish, we need both kinds of freedom.。
We need the positive freedom, we need the negative freedom as well.。
And in his letters to the Galatians, Paul ties this concept of freedom to his core message。
of the gospel.。
So let's dive back right into this book that we've been reading for the last couple of。
weeks.。
We're going to start from the beginning of chapter five.。
It says, "It's for freedom that Christ has set us free.。
Confirm then and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery."。
So in the previous weeks, we have been preaching on this heartfelt message Paul so passionately。
wanted to communicate to the believers of Galatia.。
That the works of the law, the legalistic approach of Judaism, the circumcision whatsoever,。
these are the yoke of slavery.。
Paul went at length in this letter to cover every angle, to persuade, to tell these Galatians,。
you shouldn't listen to those people who force you to follow the Jewish law as a necessary。
mean for salvation.。
You shouldn't listen to them at all because Christ is enough.。
You don't need anything extra.。
So today, again, sometimes we face that, we face being a Christian, following Christ,。
it's not enough.。
Maybe I should do something more.。
Maybe I should behave a little bit better for me to have a better standing in front。
of God.。
And Paul is telling us, Christ is enough, period.。
You don't need anything else.。
You don't need anything extra.。
And Paul is trying to make it crystal clear here.。
It's not that you don't need both Christ and the works of law.。
No, no, it's not even that.。
It's that you actually can't have both.。
It's an either or situation here.。
You either try to fulfill the law by your own effort in order to obtain righteousness。
in God's eyes, which by the way, a lot of people, every single one has tried and they。
failed.。
Or you obtain righteousness by putting your faith in Jesus alone.。
You either work really, really hard for it, or you get it for free.。
What you cannot do it, now you already have it for free and you try to earn it again by。
your own effort.。
Paul is saying, if you want to try that way, yeah, be my guest, but Christ will have nothing。
to do with you.。
So imagine for a second with me, if someone is offering you a big house as a gift, in。
Hong Kong, offering you any size of house is a huge gift already.。
Let it be a big house.。
If someone is offering you a huge, big flat or house or whatever as a gift, and you said,。
wow, thank you, but how much should I pay you?。
I'm like, seriously, if you really want to pay, you're going to pay in the full price.。
That's what Paul's want to say.。
So he said, every man who lets himself be circumcised, that he's obligated to obey the。
whole law.。
You who are trying to be justified by the law have been alienated from Christ.。
You have fallen away from grace.。
And I want to be very, very clear with you all here.。
Occasionally we may hear this phrase, fallen away from grace.。
And most of the time, the person who says it is trying to describe another person, mostly。
Christians, committing a sin or a moral failure.。
That's when we say, oh, that person is fallen away from grace.。
But that's the exact opposite of what Paul is trying to say here.。
You cannot fall away from grace by sinning.。
Although that's still an issue that we have to tackle, still an issue that we have to。
deal with.。
On a contrary, you fall away from grace by trying to prove you're righteous, or you fall。
away from grace by trying to earn God's favor with your own merits.。
Oh God, I've been serving in this church week in, week out for the last 10 years.。
Why don't you answer my prayers?。
I've been reading the Bible, I've been going to church, I've been singing, I've been doing。
all these Christian things.。
Why, why?。
Or when you start to compare yourself, oh, you know what, I'm a better person, I do this。
and that and that and that, and the list go on and on.。
When we try to prove that we are righteous, when we try to prove that we're a good person。
by what we do, we fall away from grace.。
So the moment we try to prove how much we have paid for something that we receive as。
a free gift, that's the moment we disqualify ourselves to receive it.。
That's what Paul is trying to say.。
So you can submit to what Paul described here as a yoke of slavery, an external constraint。
if you want to try that way.。
Then, or if you really want that freedom from Christ, what he's offering you is to set you。
free.。
It's to take away that yoke of slavery from you, this external constraint from you.。
You are free from the slavery of the law.。
You are free from the misery of ever trying and yet still fall short of God's standard。
of righteousness.。
Paul said it is for this kind of freedom that Christ has set you free.。
Let me be honest with you, I've been a Christian for more than 30 years.。
By the way, I grew up in the church.。
I've been in the church since I was very, very young.。
You can do the math.。
In my 30 plus years of Christian life, I didn't always really understand what freedom in Christ。
was about.。
When I was young, I thought following Jesus or following God was all about these do's。
and don'ts.。
If I follow them, if I behave, maybe God will be pleased with me.。
If he's pleased with me, probably my life would be a little bit easier, better, or I。
would have a little bit more joy down in my heart.。
Like singing a song, I have this joy, joy, joy, joy down here.。
Okay, nobody knows that.。
It's so old.。
Okay, all right.。
I don't know what I want to say.。
But anyway, so I thought if I do all that, all the do's and don'ts written here on this。
book, maybe God would love me a little bit more and I'll feel a little bit happier.。
I'll be a better Christian.。
And that's exactly how I have fallen away from grace.。
So that's why when I have fallen away from grace, when I sin, when I failed, when I stumbled,。
I felt incredibly guilty inside of me and I was so ashamed of myself.。
And that's exactly the curse of the law or the slavery of the law that Paul was trying。
to describe here.。
But Jesus came to set us free from that curse, from that slavery, from that shame, because。
I'm no longer judged according to the law, but I'm accepted according to grace.。
And that's freedom.。
If you still remember the two kinds of freedom I mentioned earlier, you would probably notice。
the freedom mentioned by Paul here, the freedom from slavery of the law, it's actually a negative。
freedom.。
Again, this term doesn't mean it's bad or whatever, but let me tell you, as a parent。
of two toddlers, I really have this love-hate relationship with negative freedom.。
You see, every Sunday when I let Mabel walk around here in church or in the playground。
somewhere, I actually, I'm quite nervous inside.。
So now all of them, they're in Singapore and we were FaceTiming a couple of days ago and。
Ross just told me, "Oh, Mabel, she fell."。
And when Mabel came into the camera and she saw me, she started pointing at the floor。
and telling me how she fell and how much it hurt, a one and a half year old trying to。
tell me, and I could see that bump on her lips and I'm like, "Oh, my heart breaks."。
And again, Singapore last year, when Megan was two and a half years old, we were in the。
zoo in Singapore.。
So halfway through the day, we're at this huge playground.。
They have this huge giant slide structure, whatever you call that, and so Megan was playing。
there.。
And at first I'm like, "Yeah, okay.。
I'm not sure if I should let her run around."。
So I acted as the external constraint or protector, if you will.。
I'm like, "Maybe she's too young to do that."。
But after maybe 10, 15 minutes, I'm like, "Oh, okay.。
Maybe she can explore that a little bit on her own.。
Maybe I don't have to be overprotective.。
Okay, I'll just let her run."。
And she gets more excited and she started running.。
And just so happened, all of a sudden, she tripped and she fell.。
And normally in this kind of playground slide structure, they will be covered by a layer。
of plasticky kind of materials.。
So when you hit it, it's not too hard, right?。
But I don't know what they're doing.。
Okay, I shouldn't say anything bad about Singapore.。
I'm going there tomorrow.。
But I don't know what happened to that playground.。
At that giant structure, there are some stairs.。
And on the stairs, they actually put a metal plate on every single flight of stair.。
And just so happened, when Megan tripped and fell, her forehead hit the edge of one of。
those metal plates.。
The whole playground went silent when she started crying, just like this.。
And I rushed to her.。
I freaked out.。
And when I look at her, there was a bump as big as the size of a golf ball on her forehead。
here.。
So we spent the rest of the day in the emergency room of the children's hospital that day.。
Tell me about it.。
Freedom.。
Yeah, I like freedom, maybe.。
But at the same time, it's kind of a scary idea to me.。
You see, when we're set free, when we can do whatever we want to do, we're simultaneously。
exposed to a world of danger.。
And all the Asian parents in the room can say amen with me, right?。
Our freedom can lead us into trouble.。
Best case scenario, it's some minor accidents, no big deal, like Megan's bumping her forehead.。
But worse come to worse, we could abuse that freedom and cause serious damage to ourselves。
and to people around us.。
So why on earth would God want us to have freedom if that could mean potential harm。
to us?。
Have you ever thought about that?。
The answer lies in the truth and the full picture of the idea of freedom in Christ.。
Yes, we know freedom in Christ on one hand, it's freedom from law or freedom from the。
yoke of an impossible task to earn God's favor by our own power and effort.。
Yes.。
We live a life free of guilt, free of shame, but all of these guilt and shame, they all。
come from our sins and our brokenness inside of us.。
And even if we are honest, even when we're Christians, even when we're Christ followers,。
even when we are in church, week in, week out, we are still vulnerable to that kind。
of temptation, to our sinful desires inside of us.。
We're still challenged by our own sinful nature on a daily basis.。
So this is why Paul describes, he said, he described that as the flesh here.。
And he said, do not use your freedom to indulge the flesh.。
If we're driven by our flesh, our selfishness, our sinful desires, then freedom from the。
law would only have a disastrous ending.。
So in order to be truly free from sin, we actually need something else or someone else.。
We need more than the absence of external constraints.。
We actually need the presence of a power that would overcome the power of sin and darkness。
inside of us so that we could have the ability to choose what is good, to choose what is。
right, to choose what would bring love and joy and peace, to choose what would build。
others up instead of tearing others down.。
We need a power to choose.。
And that's where the presence of God comes in through his Holy Spirit.。
We need the presence of God through his Spirit inside of us.。
And that's exactly what we get when we start to follow Jesus.。
And that's why Paul is saying in another letter, where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is。
freedom.。
If freedom from the law is a negative kind of freedom, then the freedom we receive in。
the power of the Holy Spirit, it's actually a positive freedom.。
He gave us his Holy Spirit to dwell inside of us, to give us the power to overcome our。
flesh so that I will or we will finally experience true freedom in our life.。
So Paul says, "You, my brothers and sisters, you were called to be free, but do not use。
your freedom to indulge the flesh.。
Rather serve one another humbly in love, for the entire law is fulfilled in keeping this。
one command, love your neighbor as yourself."。
And you may be wondering, "Paul, you just said we're free from the law, then why did。
you bring this up again?"。
And let me tell you, this is the exciting part.。
This is a great part.。
All right, Paul is going to explain to us what is the positive freedom in the Holy Spirit。
and what it's all about.。
And in fact, he's going to spend the rest of the entire chapter to explain what walking。
in the Holy Spirit would look like.。
So church, can I encourage us to just spend a little bit of time this week to just read。
through Galatians 5 and allow God to speak to us directly through his word, just like。
what Pastor Tim was talking about last week.。
Then come back next week again and allow God to speak to us through the sermon as well.。
Can we do that?。
All right, all right, two people said they can do that.。
All right, I know you have a busy schedule, I know summer is starting, but yeah, I'm sure。
you'll be blown away by this message that Paul has written.。
Okay, so now I'm going to explain this, but in order to explain it, let me go back to。
a few verses earlier.。
Let's go back to verse four.。
So just now we read, "You who are trying to be justified by the law have been alienated。
from Christ.。
You have fallen away from grace.。
For through the Spirit, we eagerly await by faith the righteousness for which we hope.。
For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision has any value.。
The only thing that counts is faith expressing through love."。
These two verses are loaded with rich theological content, actually.。
It's one of the few places in the New Testament where you find faith, hope, and love appearing。
together.。
But if I want to explain this to you, I'm going to need some help from my iPad.。
So I'm going to do this.。
Hold on.。
All right.。
Where are we here?。
Okay.。
Oops.。
Let me connect my iPad to the screen.。
Give it a moment.。
Thank you for your patience.。
Now we're on.。
Okay.。
So let me try to explain this.。
So we're humans, right?。
So we have to put a human here.。
We're human.。
Yeah.。
Like me, I know.。
We're a human with sinful nature.。
So you see, sin has always been inside of us.。
What does sin actually mean?。
It means our relationship with God and with one another was kind of like destroyed.。
So you see, our relationship with God and with others are destroyed because of sin.。
So we cannot reach God.。
And what is righteousness?。
Righteousness is one of the very, one of the facet or one of the angle to look at it.。
It's when we are in the right relationship with God and with everyone else.。
That's why when the teachers of the law came and asked Jesus, what's the most important。
thing in the law?。
Jesus says, you know, the whole law is summarized in these two commands.。
Love the Lord your God with all your heart, might, soul, and you know, whatever, whatever.。
And then the second thing, it's love your neighbor as yourself.。
If you can fulfill that, you're basically fulfilling the entire law.。
And that's the old way to look at righteousness.。
And so righteousness, it's here.。
Oh, I should stand here.。
Thank you for reminding me, Ada, just now.。
So righteousness, let me put it up a little bit more.。
Righteousness means we're in a good relationship.。
We're in the right relationship with God and others.。
Let me draw a very beautiful red heart here to represent that.。
Oh, I like it.。
So in the past, righteousness could only be obtained by the works of the law.。
So God gave us the law and human, what we have to do, you see, what we have to do, we。
have to put in our works.。
So if you have works of the law, you can try to obtain righteousness, but we know everybody。
tried and they failed.。
So this way, actually, it didn't work for them.。
And then we know, so this way didn't work.。
Nobody actually got saved like that.。
So now we know Jesus, he came.。
So let me use a red cross to represent Jesus.。
This is a cross, if you can imagine.。
This is a cross, this is Jesus.。
He died on the cross for us.。
And through Jesus and his cross, by grace, and we can obtain this righteousness.。
So it's by grace through faith, right, that we can obtain righteousness.。
Let me just draw it here.。
So this is how we reach righteousness.。
So everybody following, this is the basics of Christianity.。
If you don't have an idea what I'm talking about, I highly encourage you to join the。
next baptism class.。
Thank you.。
All right, that's what we explained there.。
All right, so this is the background.。
Oh, by the way, one more thing.。
When we accept Jesus, we actually have one more privilege.。
That is, sorry, I'm gonna put the Holy Spirit here.。
That is the Holy Spirit.。
Okay, Holy Spirit, where are you?。
Holy Spirit, you are here.。
So we have the Holy Spirit with us here.。
All right, so yes, that's the basic.。
We have the Holy Spirit by grace through faith, we have obtained this righteousness.。
Okay, now let's get back to verse five, what Paul is talking about.。
Paul is saying here, through the Spirit, by faith, we're waiting for the righteousness。
that we hope for.。
So Paul gave us a new element here, that there is a hope here.。
And this is what we hope for.。
Let me use another color.。
This is what we hope for, by the Holy Spirit and by our faith, we are looking forward to。
this thing we hope for.。
Righteousness is something we hope for.。
Righteousness is like loving your neighbor as yourself.。
This is something we hope for.。
What does it mean?。
So let me break it down for you.。
First of all, hope in the Christian language is always about something in the future.。
It's something that we don't have it yet.。
We can't see it yet.。
It's something it's not seen already.。
So that's why we have to hope for it.。
We don't see it.。
We don't have it right now, but we're kind of so sure that it's there in the future.。
That's why we have hope.。
We have hope that Jesus will come back.。
We have hope that our bodies will raise again and we'll have eternal life.。
That's what we hope for.。
Are you following me so far?。
So Paul is saying through the Holy Spirit, by faith, we have a hope and that hope, it's。
a righteousness.。
And you are like, Chapman, what are you talking about?。
I thought we have hope already.。
I thought we have righteousness already.。
Yes.。
The moment you become a Christian, the moment you put your faith in Jesus, you receive,。
you give Jesus all your sinfulness and you receive his righteousness.。
And in God's eyes, the moment you believe in Jesus, you are a righteous person already.。
That's correct.。
But what Paul is talking about is that one day, that in that final judgment, the day。
you see Jesus himself coming back as a King, the day when he's on his throne of judgment,。
he will look at you and he will tell you face to face and say, you are my righteousness.。
And he will tell that to you.。
So whatever other people have been trying so hard to work for, you already have it.。
But one day you will have it for full.。
So our righteousness as Christians, just like the kingdom of God that we have always talked。
about is now, but also not yet.。
It's something we already have.。
We are already righteous in God's eyes, but one day we'll hear him say it to us face to。
face.。
We will have the fullness of that righteousness.。
And so the old way, they have to go through the works of law to obtain righteousness.。
They fail, Christ is set us free.。
So this is the negative freedom.。
But now we know that God has given us through the Holy Spirit, also a positive freedom for。
us to overcome the power of sin, for us to love him, for us to love the people around。
us.。
So we will reach this righteousness, to love God with all our heart, souls, and mind and。
strength.。
And we also would love our neighbors as ourself.。
We will finally be able to do it through the power of the Holy Spirit in our life.。
But here's the interesting thing.。
The next verse, Paul says, yes, because you're not doing it through the old way.。
So circumcision, uncircumcision, it doesn't matter anyway.。
But what matter is a faith that express itself through love.。
Or in some other translations, a faith that is working through love.。
So Paul is tying this back here, back to the idea of love.。
Let me zoom it out so we can all see this.。
Paul is tying it back to the idea of love.。
And you may be wondering, why did Paul say that?。
And okay, that's the time I have to go back to the slides, say goodbye to this.。
Anybody needs to take one more picture?。
Okay, last one, three, two, one, bye.。
Okay.。
Thank you, iPad.。
All right, thank you, Apple.。
Let's go back to my notes and let's go back to our slides.。
Where are we?。
We are at faith expressing itself through this idea of love.。
Let me talk about it.。
I love to talk about this.。
So here's the interesting part.。
Paul just told us our legalistic work don't matter.。
But what matter is we have a working faith.。
So let me highlight the word working for us and unpack it for us.。
So yes, I've told you NIV says it's faith expressing itself through love, but more closer。
to the original language translation would be faith working through love.。
And the Greek word that Paul used here is the word anagel, which means to work, to be。
active, to be effective.。
This word may look a little bit familiar to you because that's where the English word。
energy actually comes from.。
So it implies the exertion of power, the manifestation of energy, or the accomplishment of an energy。
of a task.。
The verb often emphasized the dynamic and effective nature of an action or the result。
it produces.。
So Paul is using this word to describe a faith to make a point that genuine faith in Jesus。
Christ is indeed an active faith.。
It's not merely intellectual.。
It's not just some knowledge in our head.。
Real faith should produce actions or results.。
And not only that, when this faith is active, it works through or it expresses itself through。
love.。
Because by this faith, just now I draw that picture for you to explain it.。
By this faith, we receive righteousness, the fulfillment of law.。
And what is the fulfillment of law?。
It's love God and love our neighbors.。
And this faith also points us back to the source of love himself.。
When we truly believe in a God who loves us so much that he's willing to die on our behalf,。
when we put our trust in such a God, this faith inside of us, it will be active.。
It will be at work.。
It will produce actions inside of us.。
And it produces something or it expresses itself through the same kind of love we have。
received from God, the agape love.。
I know some of you may have heard of this fancy Greek word agape, but do you know that。
actually in Greek there are different words to describe the ideas that we would call love。
today?。
For example, there is a word called eros.。
Eros has two characteristics.。
It's a love of the worthy.。
So when someone is worthy, I love him or I love her.。
Maybe, you know, I think Chinese people can relate to this.。
If I get like 100 points, 100 marks in my exam, I'm worthy and I receive love.。
That's eros.。
Like when someone is lovable, when someone is worthy, we love them.。
That's the first characteristics.。
The second one is eros is the love that desires to possess.。
You want to own that thing.。
You want to own that person if we love him or her or it.。
But the word agape speaks of an idea that is completely opposite.。
Agape speaks of a love that is given irrespective of merit.。
Even when you're unworthy, even when you're not lovable, an agape love will still love。
you.。
It's a love that you don't need to earn.。
And it's not a love that desires to possess, but on the contrary, it's a love that seeks。
to give.。
So we have a God who loves us with a love, not because of who we are, not because we're。
worthy or not, not because of our merits or the lack of, but because He is love Himself.。
And because of that love, God the Son came into this world as a man or become a man,。
and He allowed Himself to be hung on the cross to suffer a horrible and painful death, and。
He sacrificed Himself for us when we were still sinners, when we were still rejecting。
Him, before we tell Him, "Yes, God, I want to follow You," when we were still so broken。
inside.。
His love, it's not one that desire to possess.。
It's a love that seeks to give.。
This is the agape love.。
This is the love of Jesus.。
So today, if we truly believe that He loves you with this agape love, your faith, it would。
energize inside of you.。
It will express this belief through loving those around you with the exact same kind。
of love that you receive today.。
That's why Paul says, "So in your freedom, in your positive freedom that comes from the。
empowerment of the Holy Spirit, you have the power to overcome the sinfulness and selfishness。
in you so that your faith can start to produce actions of agape love in you."。
You, my brothers and sisters, you are called to this kind of freedom.。
So do not use this freedom to indulge the flesh.。
As your genuine faith in Jesus is expressing itself through this agape self-giving love,。
serve one another.。
And serve one another in Paul's original language, it actually means, literally means, "Be each。
other's slaves."。
Yes, you are set free, you are no longer slave of the law.。
But if this genuine faith in Jesus is at work in you that is expressing itself through this。
agape love, then be each other's slave.。
Truth bomb, mind blown.。
Just as Jesus has given up himself for us, let's give up ourselves for each other.。
We have a freedom to do it.。
We have a freedom to choose even when we're hurt, even when people mistreat us, we still。
have a choice, we can choose, we have the power to choose to love.。
Even that person is not lovable, even they hate us, even they hurt us, we have this power,。
this positive freedom to choose to love when this faith, genuine faith in Jesus is at work。
inside of us and it's for this kind of freedom that Christ has set us free.。
So how are we gonna use our freedom today?。
Again, if loving those around you feels more like a do's and don'ts or a requirement from。
your pastor, rather than something you really feel compelled in your heart to do, and I。
wanna invite you to just come to the feet of the cross with me because I need that as。
well, to just experience the agape love Jesus has for you and me.。
I don't want you to strive by your own effort and try to, "Okay, I'll force myself to love。
someone," because that's exactly how we fall away from grace.。
Don't strive, just come and receive that agape love of God.。
He longs to pour out his love inside of you through his Holy Spirit and he longs to see。
that love start to overflow in our hearts.。
And one day when we see him face to face, he will call us righteous.。
He'll say, "You have fulfilled righteousness.。
You know how to love your neighbors.。
You know how to love your God.。
You are righteous because my Holy Spirit has given you the power, has enabled you.。
That faith inside of you has been at work through love.。
You've done it."。
It's not by us trying so hard, it's by just allowing the Holy Spirit to come and start。
his work inside of us.。
So put your trust in the one who loves you with an unmerited and sacrificial love.。
You can't earn his favor, but you also don't need to earn his favor because of Jesus.。
God's favor, it's already on you today.。
Let us sink it in.。
God's favor is on you today.。
He likes you.。
He doesn't just love you, he likes you because of Jesus.。
He's well pleased with you.。
If you ask, if you allow him, he's going to pour out his love through his Holy Spirit。
in you today.。
And he wants that love to overflow in you until those around you start to feel your。
love and start to feel the same agape love that you received from him.。
How are you going to use your freedom today?。
Shall we pray?。
Maybe for some of us here in your entire Christian life, loving someone, loving others, it's。
been more like a command, something you ought to do, you try hard to do, and you know at。
times you fail and you feel very tired and you feel if you're not doing it, you're in。
trouble.。
That's when we fall away from grace and I just want to invite you back into that grace,。
into just coming to receive the love of God today.。
And just come and receive that.。
See how unworthy we are yet God still loves us.。
See how far we have fallen, you know, fallen short of his glory, of his standard of righteousness,。
but he still embraces, loves us anyway.。
When you can truly open your heart to receive this kind of love, that's when the transformation。
happens.。
And I just had a sense that in this room today, there are some of us here in your entire life,。
you have never known this kind of agape or unconditional love.。
In your entire life, people around you, maybe your family, maybe your colleagues, maybe。
your friends, the kind of love you receive from them has always been conditional.。
It's always been kind of like an errorous kind of love.。
It's only because you have achieved something, because you are worthy, that's why they love。
you or maybe that's how you're feeling the whole time.。
And so when you come into the presence of God, you are also automatically thinking,。
if I don't behave, if I don't perform, is God still going to love me?。
And the answer is yes.。
But maybe you have a hard time believing it, maybe you have a hard time aligning with your。
past experience.。
God is saying, if you are willing to believe, to trust that I'm doing it for you, that that。
is for free, that you don't have to earn my favor, today you're going to experience my。
love through my Holy Spirit.。
If you're willing to do it today, you don't even have to figure everything out in your。
head, I invite you just to be open and receive.。
You can just repeat this prayer after me and say, "Come Holy Spirit, I believe Jesus is。
enough.。
Because of Jesus, because of your death, I can freely receive the fullness of God's love。
today, the agape love.。
So come Holy Spirit, pour out the Father's love in me today."。
Just give it a moment, if you're here to receive that.。
Father I pray that today we would truly live in your agape love, we will be filled from。
head to toe by it.。
And I pray that when we understand what freedom we're called to, when we understand the righteousness。
that we are hoping for, Father I pray that today our faith in you would be at work, would。
be active, would energize inside of us, that it would come and change our lives, that the。
Holy Spirit you will come and transform us.。
But I also pray that this faith will be active, our faith will be at work, and we'll be working。
through the agape love.。
I pray that this love would overflow inside of us until every single one around us would。
be blessed by it.。
So if you're willing, if that's your prayer as well, I invite you to stand with me today。
as we worship, as we sing.。
I pray, I pray for a deeper revelation of God's love for us.。
How long, how wide, how deep.。
I pray it will be a revelation by the Holy Spirit that you know how much He loves you,。
so that you can start walking in that kind of love and your faith will be working through。
this kind of love today.。
