I'm so grateful that I can be with you here on my final Sunday with you before sabbatical.。
I was supposed to be preaching out of Ephesians today and continuing our series in Ephesians,。
and that was the schedule for this Sunday.。
But over the last few weeks as I've just been processing my heart to get ready to go on。
the four-month break that I have, I've just felt like a rising sense in me that I have。
a message that I want to impart into you as a community before I go.。
And it's one that I know that the Holy Spirit is currently imparting into me.。
It's something that I feel like the Spirit of God is shaping in me.。
And while this is not always the case, I've recognized over the last 11 years of leading。
here that when the Holy Spirit does something for me, He'll often also do it for us as a。
community.。
And so I want to speak a little bit out of what I'm sensing God is calling me into sabbatical。
for.。
I actually am entering into my sabbatical with a lot of energy.。
I'm not collapsing over the finish line as if I've done this massive marathon and I need。
someone to kind of pump some sort of energy into me.。
I'm actually going on the sabbatical with a lot of spiritual energy, a lot of leadership。
energy, a lot of excitement, which is a great thing.。
But I also recognize I'm heading on the sabbatical because there is some healing I need.。
There is some inner healing and restoration that I need for me.。
And I know that in order for me to lead how I sense the Holy Spirit is calling me and。
wanting me to lead here, I need to make sure I've got regular rhythms in my life, not just。
sabbatical times, but regular rhythms to get healing from the Holy Spirit.。
But now in this season of my life, I know I need that healing perhaps now more than。
ever.。
And I feel that cool as I go into sabbatical.。
And I want to share a little bit with you today out of that place because I sense that。
there is many of us here in this room, in the overflow online right now, who are also。
in need of what we've really seen Paul teach in the book of Ephesians.。
And that is a journey of inner healing and restoration.。
And it's been amazing over the weeks as we've seen Paul's pastoral heart for his church。
in Ephesus.。
And a few weeks back, we saw that prayer at the end of chapter three, where he says, "My。
prayer for you is that you would be strengthened with power by the Spirit in your inner being."。
And it's this pastoral moment where Paul is standing for his church and he's saying, "Man,。
this is my heart.。
My heart is that the Spirit of God would come and do a healing, regenerative, restorative。
work within you, create power where there is currently weakness."。
And as I head into my sabbatical, I almost feel like God's got like a little rope around。
me and he's kind of gently doing this.。
And he's saying, "I need you once again to get strengthened with power by my Spirit in。
your inner being, because I need to release some things out of you.。
I need to heal and restore some things in you.。
And I feel that call for you here this morning."。
And so I put aside what I was supposed to be doing and I want to bring a message that。
hopefully will not only help you to understand what's happening for me, but perhaps more。
importantly, help you to understand what the Holy Spirit wants to do for you.。
This is a year of intimacy.。
We've said here at the Vine in 2024.。
Intimacy is always not just about coming into closer relationship with Christ or sensing。
his presence in our lives more.。
Intimacy is always about inner healing and restoration.。
It's always about coming in so that we can be restored to then go out again.。
And I pray that what I share with you today will be a part of that journey in your life.。
A number of months ago, I got a phone call from an old high school friend of mine here。
in Hong Kong.。
We had been in the same high school year group back in Hong Kong for seven years at South。
Island School.。
And so we'd kind of grown up together.。
We weren't like the closest of friends in high school, but we were in the same year。
group and we had both lived in Hong Kong post-graduation.。
And so I had stayed in touch with her here and there and I'd seen her here and there,。
but her calling me out of the blue was a surprise.。
And so of course I answered the phone.。
And as I was talking to her, she explained to me that the reason why she was calling。
was because her father had just passed away.。
And she wanted to know whether I would be willing to do the funeral, to help with the。
funeral, which was of course an incredible privilege to be invited into one of my very。
old school friends' lives in a time of great grief and mourning to help them to walk into。
this kind of memorial funeral time.。
And I remember though, as we were talking about this, I remember thinking to myself,。
I don't think this family is from a place of faith.。
Not that that would necessarily stop me from wanting to do this, but I was curious as to。
why she had asked me to do it.。
And so I raised this, that I thought that they were perhaps a family that were not churched。
or from the faith tradition.。
And she said, "Yeah, absolutely."。
And she said, "In fact, my father was a staunch atheist, a strong atheist for the majority。
of his life.。
And one of the things that he loved to do most at the end of his life, in the last few。
years of his life, is to debate with Christians to prove them that they're stupid in their。
beliefs.。
And you want me to do the memorial, right?"。
So this is kind of an interesting context, right?。
But I sensed her heart.。
She didn't know anybody in church.。
She didn't know really many Christians in her life, but she remembered me, that I was。
a pastor.。
And she gave me a call and said, "Hey, I would love you to do this."。
And of course, I was like, "Absolutely.。
I would love to serve you and your family at this time of grief."。
She said, "Great.。
Well, maybe in a couple of weeks' time, we can meet face to face just a few days before。
the funeral, and we can firm up the rundown and everything like that."。
And I'm like, "Yep, great."。
So two weeks later, we met here at the Vine, and something absolutely fascinating had occurred。
between that first phone call and meeting her here in the building.。
Her father had been raised from the dead.。
No, that's a lie.。
I just made that up.。
That didn't happen.。
I just wanted to see how you would react.。
I'm going on sabbatical.。
I can play with you a little bit.。
That's fine.。
But no, but something fascinating had happened.。
So in that two weeks between when I had first spoken to her and we met, she'd been going。
through her father's possessions, and she had discovered in the possessions a handwritten。
note.。
And because of the way it was written and the date on the back, she knew that he had。
written it just a month before he had passed away.。
Now it was rare for him to write anything down, particularly to write a handwritten。
kind of note like this.。
And when she looked at it, even though she's not from a faith background, she thought that。
what she was reading was potentially a quote from the Bible.。
And so she showed it to me as we met, and I want to show you a photo of it.。
I took a photo of it here, and it's from 1 Chronicles 4.。
Let me read this to you.。
"Oh, that you would bless me indeed and enlarge my territory, that your hand would be with。
me and that you would keep me from evil, that I may not cause pain."。
So I read this note, and although I've been a pastor for many years, and although I would。
say I probably have an above-average understanding of the Bible and its narrative, I really didn't。
recognize this prayer.。
I wonder if any of you in the room recognize it.。
If you did, well done.。
I did not.。
So I had actually opened my Bible and go into the Bible, and then I realized, "Ah, this。
is the famous Prayer of Jabez."。
Has anyone ever heard of the Prayer of Jabez before?。
If you're older here, chances are you have, because this little prayer was actually made。
famous about 24 years ago when Bruce Wilkinson, a pastor, wrote a short little book called。
The Prayer of Jabez.。
And in the intro of the book, he actually said this.。
He said, "If you pray this prayer once a day for 30 days, then you can expect that God。
is going to bless you, He's going to enlarge your territory, He's going to enable you to。
have more influence."。
And this book sold like wildfire.。
Because let's face it, all of us want that magical prayer, don't we?。
That one thing that we could pray, if we could pray that 30 days, my whole life would be。
changed and I would have more influence and more power and more material goods, and God。
has blessed me.。
And this was the classic kind of name it and claim it book, and it flew off the shelves.。
In fact, to this day, it remains one of the only five Christian books that have sold more。
than 10 million copies in the US alone.。
Go into any church, go into pretty much any Christian bookstore anywhere in the world,。
you will see a copy of this book, The Prayer of Jabez.。
Now, it is possible that my friend's father stumbled across that book in the last month。
of his life, read it, and decided to hand write out that prayer, but I don't think that's。
what happened.。
In fact, the reason why I don't think that happened is because of the translation in。
which he writes out this prayer in his own hand.。
It's not the translation that Bruce uses in the book.。
In fact, I think it's much more likely that my friend's father recalled this prayer from。
an early time in his life.。
He was Dutch and had been raised within the Dutch community before moving to Hong Kong。
later in his life, so it's possible that he might have heard this in the school or something。
like that, and in his last dying few weeks, recalls the prayer and decides to write it。
out in hand.。
And as my friend gave me the note, she said, "I would love it if you could speak on this。
passage at the memorial," and that led me into a time of researching a bit about it,。
looking at the scriptures, understanding the passage, and as I did so, not only did I become。
more profoundly fascinated and honoring of her father, I also realized that God had something。
deep to say to me.。
And as I open this up for you here today, I wonder, and I hope and pray, that I'll have。
something deep to say to you too.。
Prayer of Jabez is just two verses in the Bible.。
He's only mentioned in those two verses.。
It's found in the middle of eight chapters of genealogy at the beginning of 1 Chronicles.。
I don't know if you've read 1 Chronicles much lately.。
It's the story, basically, of Israel and their journey up into the Davidic kingdom, and it。
traces in the first eight chapters this genealogy of all the kings and all the tribes, starting。
with Adam going to Abraham, and then the 12 tribes, and it unpacks all the descendants,。
the generations, flowing out of the kings of those 12.。
Now here in chapter 4, where these two verses are found, it's actually found in the tribe。
of Judah.。
So Jabez is part of the family of the kings from the tribe of Judah, which tells us something。
straight away, that Jabez was from a privileged background.。
He was a son of one of the kings in the generation in the line of Judah.。
He was probably raised in a place of relative prosperity and wealth.。
And I want to read you the two verses that we have that captures his story.。
This is 1 Chronicles 4, starting in verse 9.。
"Jabez was more honorable than his brothers.。
His mother had named him Jabez, saying, 'I gave birth to him in pain.'。
Jabez cried out to the God of Israel, 'Oh, that you would bless me and enlarge my territory.。
Let your hand be with me and keep me from harm, so that I will be free from pain.'。
And God granted his request."。
Just two verses in the middle of a genealogy.。
If you're anything like me, when you come across the genealogies in the Bible, you're。
like...。
But right in the middle of that, we see this fascinating story.。
And the first thing we learn is what his mother has gone through and what she does in response.。
Here's the fascinating thing.。
We all respond in challenging ways when we've experienced trauma.。
She names her son Jabez, it says here.。
"For I gave birth to him in pain."。
The name Jabez, literally in the Hebrew, sounds like the Hebrew word for pain.。
His mother, and we don't know the details because we're not given any more details than。
this, but we can assume that her mother had a really bad labor with Jabez.。
So bad that the pain and the time and everything that happened, maybe she even almost died,。
we don't know.。
But there was so much pain that when Jabez was born, and it was her responsibility to。
speak a name, to place a name on him, all she could think of out of her trauma was,。
"This one caused pain."。
That's what his name means.。
"This one caused pain."。
And so for the rest of Jabez's life, he's named, he's called the one that causes pain.。
Which shouldn't have happened because when you're a part of a royal family, when you're。
a part of the lineage of the kings, your name that you're given at birth is very important,。
particularly in Hebrew culture.。
And so probably he should have been named for one of his forefathers.。
Or perhaps he could be named for a village or an area where a great battle or victory。
happened in the generations of his family.。
Or maybe at the very least, he should have been given a name that would actually help。
to project this idea of a character or something that God wants to do in his life or something。
that his parents are longing for.。
Instead, out of this woman's deep pain of childbirth, she places her hand on her son。
and she says, "This one caused pain."。
And Jabez for the rest of his life is causer of pain.。
The names and the words and the labels placed over us in life hurt us, don't they?。
We don't know the details here, but we can assume that Jabez grew up in a place of embarrassment。
and shame because of this name.。
Surrounded by brothers who probably had much more regal and better names, he's constantly,。
anytime he's called, anytime somebody says his name, anytime he has to introduce himself,。
"Hi, I'm causer of pain."。
It's fascinating to me because in the Hebrew understanding of naming something, in the。
Hebrew worldview of the Old Testament, they thought that names had materialism to them.。
In other words, when you put a name on someone, it was like you were actually literally physically。
placing a mantle on them.。
The word "dabah," which is the Hebrew word for "word," when you speak a word, the word。
suggests a putting on of, almost like you're putting a cloak on somebody.。
A little bit like how Ezekiel would get a cloak put on him as a prophet.。
When we speak a name in the Old Testament Hebrew understanding, it's a physicality to。
it, a weight to it.。
This is why in the modern days, you remember if somebody says to you, "Oh man, their words。
had weight."。
Remember how we say that?。
That's basically the Old Testament Hebrew understanding of this idea of what naming。
something is.。
So when his mother does this to him, she knows what she's doing.。
And she's placing upon him, in her mind, a material reality.。
Not just saying something with an arbitrary meaning, she's placing a material reality。
on them out of the depth of her trauma, she causes trauma.。
She's not the first person to have done it in history.。
She will not be the last.。
And Jabez now has to walk in the pain of the reality of this name, shaping his identity,。
shaping how he introduces himself, and how he now lives out his life.。
And you can almost sense that for Jabez, he's rooted now in a story that he does not want,。
but a story he's not sure how he can get out of.。
I wonder if anyone else feels that way here.。
I wonder if anyone else has ever said something over you, spoken a name over you, labeled。
you in some way that has caused you to live a story you're struggling to get out of.。
When I was 14 years old, my chemistry teacher at school told me that I would never amount。
to anything.。
His actual words were this, "Andrew, you are a failure.。
Keep this up and you'll never amount to anything in life."。
I remember that moment vividly, as if it happened literally just yesterday.。
I remember where I was, I remember the smell of the room, I remember what he was wearing,。
I remember what I was wearing.。
And although I didn't like this person particularly very much, and he was right, I was failing。
in chemistry, there was something as a 14-year-old that a person in authority said over me, "I。
will never amount to anything."。
And although, of course, neither of us were Jewish, there was this impact to me.。
That phrase, those words went deep into a 14-year-old that was trying to build his identity.。
And I think to begin with, it was at the subconscious level.。
This kind of subconscious level that maybe I'm not going to amount to anything, that。
maybe my life's not going to mean much.。
And then when I became a young adult and started to work and move into adult life, it wasn't。
subconscious anymore, it became a conscious reality to me.。
And I have sat under the power of those words for all of my adult life.。
The one thing I have struggled the most with, and I've shared this quite a bit with you。
as a church over the years, is insecurities.。
Insecurities about my self-worth, insecurities about whether I'm achieving anything or doing。
anything.。
I've struggled a lot in my adult life with imposter syndrome, and I can trace it all。
back to that moment where he has spoken over me.。
And I've realized over the years that those words have done two things, and I wonder whether。
this might resonate with some of you who know some words that have been spoken over you.。
Those words have crippled me at times, and they have driven me at times.。
On the crippled side, those words have sucked confidence out of me, sucked self-belief,。
and I've struggled with self-doubt for so much of my life.。
In fact, I can't even tell you, Chris was here for the first service, my wife, but I。
can't tell you the number of Sundays where no matter how many people showed up, no matter。
how buzzing the worship was, no matter how perhaps impactful maybe the word was, I get。
home and I crawl up onto the couch and I feel terrible.。
I feel like nothing really happened.。
Nobody really responded.。
It wasn't that great of a Sunday.。
Oh, why do I even bother doing this?。
It's like I'm pushing water uphill, I'm not achieving it, and I'll spiral because I'm。
tired and I'm worn out, and I'm entering into some of those deeper places that I have where。
there's a brokenness within me because somebody said at the age of 14, "You're never going。
to amount to anything," and that has so crippled me that even to this day, I still have days,。
it's not every day, okay, but some days where I feel stripped and drained of the confidence。
that I should have as a son of Christ.。
On other days, those words have driven me.。
They've gotten inside of me and they've made me want to push even harder to prove that。
those words are wrong.。
And out of the exhaustion of performance and perfectionism, I've tried to create something。
that perhaps wasn't there, and I've tried to work really hard because I'm trying to。
prove first of all to God, then to myself, then to my family, and then to you all that。
actually I have achieved something with my life.。
I'm turning 50 next year, and if you're over the age of 50 right here, you can close your。
ears right now, but that's really old.。
And I feel really old.。
And I kid you not, I'm having like a midlife crisis, part of the reason why I need to get。
on sabbatical.。
And I'm having a midlife crisis, this is my midlife crisis.。
I'm almost dead and I haven't achieved anything.。
And I kind of say it as a joke, but the reality is deep inside, that is partly how I reflect。
about myself.。
I know that I have been weighed down by the materialistic impact of somebody's words.。
And how about for you?。
What has been spoken over you in your life?。
Perhaps for some of you, it was by somebody who loves you deeply and meant well for you.。
Maybe a parent who said something maybe out of place of love, but those words, man, were。
not what you needed to hear.。
And you've carried those words with you and they've shaped and changed you in some way.。
Perhaps like me, it was a teacher, somebody that you looked up to, an authority figure。
in your life.。
Perhaps it was a pastor, someone like that.。
But somebody has said something and it's changed you and it's hurt you.。
And it's actually over time begun to shape how you think about the world and how you。
think about yourself.。
And now you feel like you're under the weight of those words and it's really hard for you。
to break out of the weight of those words.。
What names or words do you struggle to be free from?。
Jabez struggled to be free from the word that had been placed over him.。
But at some point in his life, he decided to draw a line in the sand.。
We don't know when.。
All we get is the naming of him and the impact that had for him.。
And then we get his prayer.。
At some point though, whether it was when he was still young, probably more likely as。
he got a little bit older, he decided to draw the line in the sand and take action against。
the thing that had been placed upon him.。
And for him, that action, not to hate his mom and his action is to go to God and ask。
for healing.。
It's beautiful.。
This is why it says at the beginning of the passage, he was more honorable than his brothers,。
because he has a heart inside of him to not try to fix things himself.。
He's got a heart inside him to realize the only way I can be lifted from the power that。
this name is placed upon me is by bringing it to God and getting healing and restoration。
from him.。
He's honorable in his humility to bring action to what has been happening.。
And I want you to see what it says right at the start of verse 10.。
It says, "Jabez cried out."。
The Hebrew word here for cried out doesn't mean like just praised.。
It means from a place of anguish.。
He kind of speaks loudly before God from a place of pain, basically, which is really。
ironic because the writer here is trying to help you to see a journey.。
Jabez, the one who is named causer of pain, is in pain himself.。
And his pain is because his mom has caused him pain, which is ironic.。
She said, "You're the causer of pain," but she's the one who ends up causing him pain.。
And in that place of great pain, not health, not great, in a place of pain, he then cries。
out.。
I want you to see how he cries out.。
He says, first of all, "Bless me, O that you would bless me and enlarge my territory."。
Remember the context.。
The context is he's a son of a king.。
He's grown up in the royal household.。
He's had privilege from the very beginning of his life.。
He's not crying out to ask God to bless him materially.。
He's calling out and asking God to meet him in the pain and the brokenness of the label。
that has been placed upon him.。
And in that, he says, "Would you bless me?"。
In other words, "Would you turn your face to me?。
Would your presence be here for me?"。
This is not a prayer for prosperity.。
It's a prayer for presence.。
God, I need you to be with me because I can't do this anymore, and I'm crushed by the weight。
of the word, the name that has been placed upon me.。
This is why he says, "Enlarge my territory."。
He's not asking for his kingdom to grow.。
He's not asking that he would have more influence in the world and fight bigger battles and。
get bigger influence and get that promotion.。
This is not some materialistic desire.。
What he's realizing is because the name has been placed over him that says, "You're a。
causer of pain," it has shrunk his worldview.。
It has shrunk how he sees himself.。
And he doesn't see himself how he should be seeing himself, and he's seeing much smaller。
than he should.。
And so he comes to God and says, "Turn your countenance, your presence.。
Bless me."。
Always about God's presence, primarily in the Old Testament.。
"Would you bless me with your presence so that I can have a bigger view of life, a bigger。
view of myself?。
Enlarge the territory.。
Enlarge my way of thinking, my spirit, because I have been crushed."。
And that's what trauma will always do.。
Trauma and names spoken over you will always strip away a big vision and always try to。
reduce you.。
Like for me, I'm never going to amount to anything, so why even bother to try?。
Javis says, "Enlarge my territory because I realize that I have shrunk my identity down。
to the power of the word that was put over me."。
Which is why he then says, "May your hand be upon me."。
In Hebrews, in the present continuous tense, which basically means every single day, now。
and forevermore, I need your hand to be with me.。
He's asking for the soles of the feet, not just the king, which is to bless me, enlarge。
my territory.。
He's saying, "I need you to put your hand upon me every day.。
I want you to be alongside of me, walking with me.。
The soles of your feet, if you will," is how Ezekiel would say it.。
"The soles of your feet be with me.。
I need your hand.。
The hand that is powerful, that can fight battles, that can break chains," because。
Javis realizes there's chains on his heart and he's hurting.。
He's saying, "God, would you break the chain?。
Would your hand every single day help me in my journey?"。
Then he gets to the crux of his prayer and he prays this.。
He says, "And keep me from harm so that I may be free from pain."。
This little bit right here, "that I may be free from pain," is what's called by scholars。
a textual variance in the Hebrew.。
What that means is that there are various different documents where we drive 1 Chronicles。
from that have words here that are slightly different.。
There are two ways of interpreting, looking at the textual variances, what he's saying。
here.。
One is the way it's shown in the NIV, that I would be free from pain, which seems a very。
important thing because he's just told us he's cried out in pain.。
It makes sense at the end of his prayer he would say, "I want to be free from pain."。
I think that's a good prayer.。
But as I've studied this text and as I've looked at the documents by which this is drawing。
from, I think the way this is captured in other translations is actually closer to what。
was originally intended in the Hebrew.。
You can see this, for example, in the New King James Version.。
Let me put both side by side.。
So NIV on the left, "so that I will be free from pain."。
And NKJV interprets this way, "that I may not cause pain."。
And I want you to absorb in your spirit here what Jabez is doing.。
I think this is much more textually accurate to what I think Jabez actually prayed.。
And as it comes out in the Hebrew, he's not saying that I would be free from pain.。
He was saying, "so that I don't cause pain anymore."。
What he's saying is, "I don't want to be the name anymore.。
If my name is causer of pain, here is my prayer, that I would not live up to the label that's。
been placed on me.。
That I need your freedom to bring me out from the label that has been put on me.。
I will not be my name.。
And I need you every single day to bless me, bring your presence towards me.。
I need you to enlarge how I see myself, because I'm not seeing myself properly right now.。
And I need you so that I would not cause pain.。
So I'm not going to take the name that has been put on me and allow that to shape who。
I am.。
No, Lord, I'm going to speak in the opposite spirit in this prayer.。
And I'm going to ask you, Lord, release me, release me, release me, that I would no longer。
my narrative and my story would not be to cause pain.。
My name may stay, remained Jabez, but my narrative will not be linked to my name.。
That I may be free from pain, yes, but that I may not cause the pain of others.。
I will not be the label my mother put on me.。
Let me paraphrase how I think he's expressing the prayer.。
My mother named me as one who causes pain and I have carried this label around with。
me my whole life, but no more.。
God come and bless me.。
Help me to enlarge the territory of my identity so I do not live out the very name that was。
placed upon me.。
I don't want to be what my name suggests.。
No, Lord, bless me, change me so that I would not cause pain.。
This is not a prayer for prosperity.。
This is a prayer for inner healing.。
This is a prayer for freedom from the name that was placed upon him.。
That's the prayer of Jabez, my friends.。
What fascinates me is that my friend's father, who wrote out this prayer in hand, wrote out。
what I would consider is the right translation of it.。
Let me show you once again what he wrote at the end, that I may not cause pain.。
It's interesting.。
I was talking to my friend about him and his journey in life and she told me great stories。
because I was going to have to represent him at the memorial.。
She told me lots of great stories.。
This man had lived an amazing life.。
He was a person who was a large in the life character that really grabbed life by its。
neck and lived out that idea of better to burn out than fade away.。
He was just full on in his life.。
He was an entrepreneur.。
He actually lived in Hong Kong the majority of his life and he had changed and done a。
lot of great things for Hong Kong as a city.。
But she also shared stories of some of his challenges and some of the things that he。
hadn't done well, like all of us here who don't always live the perfect life.。
He had had brokenness in his marriage.。
He had found himself in divorce.。
He had brokenness in his finances and what happened in his finances that actually ended。
up causing quite a lot of pain, pain to himself and pain to his family.。
I think it's so profound that just a few weeks before he passed, he would write out in hand。
this old prayer that he remembered from when he was a kid and right at the end of it, he。
would say, "So that I may not cause pain."。
I don't know whether he gave his life to Jesus at the end of his life or not.。
We have no idea of knowing that, but what I do know is that somehow he found comfort。
in an old prayer and he could use it to express something to his daughter who found the note,。
"I never wanted to cause you pain and I'm sorry for anything that I've done that may。
have caused you pain, that I may not cause pain."。
As I step on the sabbatical tonight, I do so because I'm in need of my version of the。
prayer of Jabez.。
I realize that as a 14-year-old, I was spoken over in a way that has impacted my life and。
my insecurities and how I see myself.。
And it's not the first time that I've recognized this.。
I've had years of therapy and prayer and it's helped hugely.。
I've had so many victories and I know standing before you today, I'm way stronger than I。
ever used to be, but I realize I desire more.。
I realize that there's more freedom I want.。
I realize that I do not want to carry around any more, even just a little bit of what that。
man said to me when I was 14 years old.。
So part of my need for sabbatical is to get away and pray a prayer that ends with that。
I would do what it is that you called me to do and never second guess it.。
That's going to be a journey.。
It's not going to be an easy thing to do and that's what my sabbatical is about.。
How about for you?。
In this year of intimacy here at the Vine, what an opportunity we have to a journey of。
inner healing.。
And there have been some words and some names that either have been spoken over you, that。
you know you struggle to be free from, or that, and we felt this at the end of the first。
service, or that you've spoken over yourself, ways that you've come to define yourself or。
maybe out of your own traumas or your own past experiences, and you've labeled yourself。
a certain way that actually Christ looks over you and says, "That's not who I created you。
to be," or, "That's not who you are.。
There's so much more in you.。
You're not a failure as you are currently defining yourself.。
You're not one who can't be loved as you're currently saying about yourself.。
You're not one who has been rejected or lonely as you think right now about yourself.。
The names we place over ourselves have such awesome depth to hold us captive."。
So whether somebody has said something to you or you know you've said something to yourself,。
either way you know that there's change, you know that there's hurt, you know that there's。
a need for freedom and healing.。
That's what my sabbatical is going to be about, but I also pray that that's what this is about。
for you too.。
I want to encourage you to just open your heart.。
I thought for some of you here, words spoken over you, and you're like Jabez, you're like,。
"Enough is enough.。
They've crippled me and they've driven me.。
I'm going to come.。
Lord, would you bless me?。
Would you enlarge the places that I have made small?。
Would you be with me every day because I need you every day in this?。
And would you enable me to walk in the opposite spirit of the name that has been spoken of。
me?。
I will not accept it anymore."。
And I pray as you do that, you will see freedom in your life like never before.。
Here's what I want you to do.。
Maybe we could just close our eyes and bow our heads.。
Here's what I want to do.。
I want to lead you in a ministry moment here.。
If this has been speaking to you and if this resonates with you, in a moment I'm going。
to invite you just to respond by opening your hands.。
And opening your hands is just a subtle way of coming before the Lord here this morning。
and saying, "I need this too.。
I need my version of the prayer of Jabez.。
I need inner healing from some of the things that have been spoken over me and I'm tired.。
I don't want to carry it around with me anymore.。
Or I need freedom from the things that I've been saying about myself.。
One of the things that I know in my life, I've been saying I'm old a lot lately.。
And honestly I felt convicted by the Holy Spirit this morning because in the view of。
eternity I'm really, really, really, really, really, really young in the name of Jesus.。
I need to stop cursing myself by saying I'm old.。
And I cut that off right now in the name of Jesus.。
Forgive me Lord.。
So Lord, any words that people in this room have spoken over themselves that are not of。
you, Lord, we want to bring those to you too.。
So this is for you, maybe just you can open your hands as you're sat and I want to pray.。
Father, we are very grateful that we have your presence with us.。
We're very grateful that, yeah, through the story of a man who would claim to be an atheist,。
we have an entry point into understanding a prayer that perhaps has been misunderstood。
for too long.。
And Father, I know that there is a lot that the enemy has done over us and over individuals。
here in this room over years.。
Lord, I know that there are people in this room who have carried and are carrying the。
wrong identity or the wrong thought about themselves simply because somebody has labeled。
them.。
And you need to know here this morning, you are not your label.。
I'm going to say that again in the name of Jesus.。
You are not your label.。
You are not that name.。
You are not that word.。
You are not the label that has been placed upon you.。
You are exactly who God says you are.。
And you are alive in Christ.。
And Christ looks at you as a child of His.。
And He says, "You are just as I have created you to be.。
And that there is nothing, nothing that I cannot liberate you from."。
So Lord, we come to you with our hands open and with the recognition of perhaps for some。
of us years of hurt and pain.。
Lord, we want to pray first of all for your presence.。
Come Holy Spirit, come.。
I want to pray that that starting of the Jabez prayer would be for each person here.。
Come and bless me.。
Turn your face towards me.。
Maybe that can just be if your hands are open.。
That can be the starting point of this prayer right now.。
Just come before the Holy Spirit and say, "Lord, would you turn your face to me?。
Would your presence be here?"。
It's not like you have to convince Him to do that.。
Of course He's present with you.。
But just in asking Him to bless you, it's an opening of your heart.。
That's the starting point of walking in the opposite spirit.。
"Lord, I ask that you would bless me.。
I believe that I'm a person who deserves your blessing."。
For some of you, that's a breakthrough right then.。
I sense that as I'm praying.。
This is a breakthrough right now in the spirit.。
Just you saying, "Lord, bless me," is a massive breakthrough for you because you didn't think。
you were worthy of His blessings.。
Holy Spirit, come.。
I want to encourage you for you now.。
As you've asked God to turn His countenance and His presence towards you, here's your。
next prayer.。
"Lord, enlarge my territory."。
Maybe just bring what it is that you know you're carrying, the smallness perhaps, the。
shrinking of your identity.。
Yeah, whatever it is that has caused you to think less of yourself.。
Not to have big dreams, but small dreams because you don't think you deserve it or you don't。
think you're good enough.。
And you've reduced the sphere of your influence.。
I want to pray that you would have the faith and the courage to say, "Lord, would you enlarge。
my territory?。
Enlarge my spirit?。
Enlarge my emotions?。
Enlarge the way that I think about myself?"。
Then I want you to pray, "Lord, would you be with me every day?。
Father, not just in this moment where it feels good and safe and right, but Lord, tomorrow。
morning when I wake up and the kids are crying and I've got to rush to work and it's going。
to be crazy and I would have forgotten everything that happened on Sunday.。
And Lord, in that moment, would you be with me even more powerfully than you're with me。
in this moment?。
Lord, I need you every day.。
I need you to be my strong right arm, my strong and mighty tower.。
Your name, not mine, your name would be my rear guard, my yesterday, today and forever."。
And in that courage that you've already had, here's the final part of the prayer.。
For Jabez, it was, "Man, somebody put a name over me that I'm one who causes pain, so here's。
my prayer.。
Lord, help me not to cause pain."。
For you, if somebody has said to you, "You're not good enough," here's your prayer today,。
"Lord, help me to know that I am good enough."。
Or perhaps even stronger than that, you say, "Lord, I declare that I am good enough."。
If someone's told you, "You're not lovable," here's your reply, "Lord, I am lovable.。
I am the apple of your eye.。
I believe I'm worthy of being loved."。
So whatever is the opposite of whatever that name is that's been placed over you, that's。
your prayer of Jabez, and that's your opportunity to come now, just in the quietness of your。
heart, go, "Lord, this for me.。
I will not accept what it is that's been said, and I move now in the opposite spirit, and。
I release, Lord, and I say the opposite of what has been labeled me.。
I am not my label.。
I am this as a child of God.。
I am this as a child of Christ, and Christ has paid the price on the cross for all of。
the brokenness that I seem to be carrying with me, and Lord, would you bring liberation.。
Liberation.。
Holy Spirit."。
I was going to invite in a second the worship team just to just lead us, but I want to,。
I want to ask you just to stay in a place of receiving.。
This is for you today.。
We're going to have the prayer team.。
In fact, maybe I could just invite the prayer team just to be at the front already, our。
altar call prayer team, and I want to encourage you.。
This is really important for you today.。
Don't leave here today without getting prayer.。
As much as it's been good for us to go through this as a community, but there's some individual。
things that we would love to pray for you about, and there's some of you here where,。
you know, just having someone come around you, lay their hands on you, speak truth into。
you, both in the upper house and the lower house.。
If you're outside, you can come in in a moment.。
We would love to stand with you and pray for you, so the prayer team can be available,。
and in a moment, if you would like prayer, just come forward any time.。
You don't have to wait until the end of the service.。
Just come forward.。
Even right now, if you want to receive prayer, just start to come forward.。
Someone's going to put their hands on you.。
They're going to pray for you.。
We're going to worship together, and we're going to believe that Christ is going to continue。
to set chains free, to restore people's identities, to break off the names and the words and the。
labels that have been placed on us, and we're going to do this in an atmosphere of joy and。
wonder for a God who loves us so much, and we thank you for that in Jesus' name.。
Would you stand with me?。
And like I say, if you want prayer, don't be shy.。
Come on, church.。
We did this a few weeks ago, and people came forward for prayer.。
We'd love to invite you to do that.。
Otherwise, you can continue just to receive。
what He has for you as we enter in this time of worship.。
