And good morning, everyone.。
As you can tell, we are entering a season of Advent.。
It's part of the church calendar.。
Advent, it's the four weeks time that that takes place.。
Ooh, okay, it's a bit loud.。
It's the four Sundays coming before Christmas.。
I knew about, I knew that I'm gonna preach today。
a couple months ago, and honestly, I was,。
I was quite excited, just to say,。
couple months ago when I knew that。
apparently this is a season everybody would enjoy a lot.。
But this is not how, not quite how I imagined。
we would kick off the season of Advent.。
This is not how I imagined we would be gathering。
after a week in a city.。
Where, to say the least, all of us,。
we all have been through emotionally, mentally,。
just watching the news, or maybe you know someone,。
but in different conditions where it's just。
a little bit too much for the entire city.。
And this is not how I imagined Advent would start。
for us this year.。
We have sat over a Christmas tree at home。
just like the Christmas tree here.。
It's all set.。
My Christmas Spotify playlist is all ready.。
Every day when I drive, when I'm with the girls,。
I was going to play some Christmas songs to them,。
songs like, "It's the Most Wonderful Time of the Year."。
I had a difficult time just even thinking。
about those lyrics, or just, you know.。
That doesn't just sit well with me anymore.。
And, you know, so many happened。
in just the last couple of days, right?。
What we used to, [coughs] sorry,。
you know, all these festive sentiments,。
or decoration and all that,。
they've been all thrown out the window just overnight.。
And, to say the least, you know,。
having gone through the last couple of days in a city,。
what we're feeling right now,。
it's probably quite different from what we would describe。
as festive, joyful, if not the opposite.。
Celebrations canceled, like activities,。
events were suspended, rescheduled.。
We're mourning as a city,。
regardless of whether we personally know someone。
who were caught in the tragedy,。
and overwhelmed by stories and updates。
and all these numbers that we read on news and social media.。
I know a lot of people were having a hard time,。
like just reading it, just watching all those news。
and stories and all that.。
But yet, at the same time, I don't know if I'm alone here,。
but I find it quite hard to disengage as well.。
I've been very disciplined with my social media。
in the last year or so.。
I set a timer on my phone every day.。
When the timer is up, I'll stop using it.。
I'll stop scrolling social media,。
but this week, it's the week that,。
in the last couple of days, I found myself keep reading.。
I just wanna read one more stories.。
I just wanna read like some more, one more piece of news.。
I just wanna know more.。
That's where I found myself in the last couple of days.。
Just couldn't help scrolling.。
This is nowhere near how I imagined Advent。
would kick off this year.。
But what if, and just what if,。
what if this is actually the right posture for Advent?。
And that's what I wanna talk about today, church.。
I know Advent has been strategically placed before Christmas。
and so it's always been the countdown to Christmas.。
It's always been the time where we start writing。
our shopping list if you haven't like started.。
You start thinking about your holiday plans。
if you haven't done so.。
It's the time you started like hearing。
all these Christmas songs, hearing all these like jingles,。
all these tunes, wherever you go,。
and you start feeling, oh, wow, it's the season.。
It's the time in the year.。
It's the time.。
Advent, when we look at that,。
we may think about Advent calendar that comes with chocolate.。
Maybe that's how we see this season in the church calendar.。
But our experience in the last couple of days。
just brought us to a whole different direction.。
But what if this tension that we are facing,。
that we're experiencing right now,。
this tension, that agonizing gap。
between the celebration we were looking forward to。
and the grief we are actually experiencing right now,。
what if this tension, it's what Advent is all about?。
You see, the very word Advent comes from the Latin word。
adventus, meaning coming or arrival, it's apparent.。
To the church, it has dual meaning.。
On one hand, we look back with gratitude。
to the first coming of Jesus in the history in Bethlehem,。
while at the same time, we also look forward。
with anticipation to his second coming。
as judge and king at the end of time.。
The Swiss theologian, Karl Barth, wrote something like this.。
He says, "The time of the community," which is a church,。
"is the time of the interval between the first。
"and the second coming of Jesus Christ.。
"It is a time of the not yet."。
I know you've heard a lot about this term here.。
He called this time, he says, "This is between the times,"。
which means the church has always existed。
in this between the times.。
We've always existed in a period, just like Advent,。
from the first coming to the second coming.。
We're always stuck in the middle.。
In other words, we have always been living。
in the tension between the two adventists.。
We've always been living, every generation of the church。
has always been stuck in this period。
where there are the two comings of Jesus.。
We've always been experiencing that Jesus。
has already brought his kingdom on earth,。
but not yet fully realized.。
The victory is secure, but the enemy is not yet destroyed.。
We don't live as though we were already raised。
from the dead, we're not there yet.。
We're yet to see and taste the place。
that there is no more tears, there's no more suffering,。
there's no more pain.。
We're just simply not there yet.。
Advent, it's all about living in the tension。
that is created by the faith in that which is yet to come.。
Let me say that again.。
Advent, it's all about living in that tension。
that is created by the faith, because we put our faith。
in that final ending, in the second coming of Jesus,。
because we put our faith there, so it creates a tension.。
This tension has to do with our faith.。
We know it's coming, but it's not here yet,。
so we're sensing that tension.。
We know there shouldn't be tears,。
we know there shouldn't be pain,。
we know there shouldn't be suffering,。
we know that there shouldn't be separation,。
but in reality, that's what we saw。
in the last couple of days.。
That's what even we could have been experiencing,。
if not our entire life, at least in the last couple of days.。
That's the story of this city.。
In faith, we believe the age to come。
where Jesus is Lord and King, but in our daily life right now。
we're experiencing the present evil,。
an evil age ruled by sin and death.。
Therefore, we live in the tension。
between light and darkness, future and present,。
and the way things ought to be,。
and the way things they are right now.。
No one should smoke in the construction site。
if that's in the perfect world.。
The construction material should have been fire resistant。
in the perfect world.。
The fire alarms should be ringing out loud。
in the perfect world, except none of those were true.。
Therefore, Advent begins in the dark.。
Advent begins in the dark.。
It means the season does not start。
with the artificial cheer of Christmas preparation.。
Yes, we're there, Christmas is coming,。
but with a brutally honest look。
at the brokenness of the world.。
Let me say this again.。
We're here in Advent, we're staring at the dark.。
We're here because we have to be brutally honest。
to look at the brokenness of the world。
instead of just enjoying some artificial cheer.。
Yes, Christmas.。
It's a theological refusal to light a candle of hope。
until we have first acknowledged the death of the shadow。
of the darkness that we're facing,。
the shadow of the darkness that we are in.。
In the Bible, there are two layers of meanings。
when it comes to the idea of darkness.。
The first layer is this.。
It simply means the evil and all the untold suffering。
that we're experiencing that has filled up our entire world.。
At a time of Jesus' birth, we know that there was violence,。
there was injustice, there was abuse of power,。
there was systematic greed, homelessness, oppression,。
displacement, broken families and grief and all that,。
which sounds exactly just like today.。
But biblical darkness also refers not just to this evil。
and all this suffering that people are going through.。
It also refers to the ignorance。
and the inability of human beings.。
You know, human beings, ever since the day。
they left the Garden of Eden,。
they have been trying to save themselves.。
They have been trying to fix things on their own.。
In the Old Testament, we've seen that,。
like people try all sorts of things.。
They try their own ways, they build towers,。
and then they try to worship different kind of idols.。
They try to do different kinds of like voodoo and all that.。
They are trying to manipulate things for themselves.。
And then we see that right now, even in our day and age,。
we're all still turning to our human resources,。
whatever we, you know, whenever we have a need,。
we're still looking toward the earth.。
We're looking towards what we could do as human beings.。
There are sayings like maybe if we come together,。
if we join hands and join hearts,。
maybe we can solve all the human problems ever。
on this planet.。
But we see, despite our best technology,。
despite our best experts and scholars,。
and the state, the market, the technology,。
when you put all these things together, yes,。
we see there's blessing to certain level,。
like human well-being, it's, you know,。
we're helping a little bit,。
but we have never really been able to solve。
fundamental problems.。
I don't see any form of technology solving the problem。
of greed, which was one of the primary factor。
of what we saw in the last couple of days.。
I don't see that if we have a better economist。
solving more problems than greed,。
we could, you know, completely eradicate greed.。
I don't see wars being solved by technology.。
I think wars, just as technology,。
just make them worse sometimes.。
I don't see human problems being eradicated。
by our own effort, by our own wisdom,。
by our own ability, but yet, human beings,。
we have been trying to do that,。
and we thought if we try harder,。
the narrative was if we try hard enough,。
maybe we will be able to solve all the problems。
on our own.。
Biblical darkness does not just describe evil。
and untold suffering.。
It also tells us about human ignorance。
and inability to solve our own problems.。
So in our darkness, we're trying to create。
light for ourselves.。
We have, you know, safety codes.。
I'm sure we had tons of that.。
We have different measures in place.。
We have experts and systems, and yet,。
nonetheless, none of those work for a city.。
In the last couple of days, if those things had worked,。
we wouldn't have seen what we saw.。
And so, I just wanna humbly suggest。
that perhaps we thought we were very capable,。
but in fact, we do not.。
Advent is the season in the year。
that put us right in this sport,。
to face the darkness.。
You think you wanna light a candle of hope,。
but maybe we're still just trying to rely。
on our own strength, our own talent,。
our own ability.。
Advent put us here and say, you know what?。
Yeah, there is a perfect world when Jesus comes back,。
but yeah, we're here right now.。
Yes, Jesus has come already, has established his kingdom,。
but that kingdom is not fully realized on this planet yet.。
That's why this planet, this city,。
is still filled with darkness,。
is still filled with greed and evil。
and all these problems that we're seeing.。
We are stuck in the middle.。
That's the real meaning of Advent.。
Yes, we have gratitude to us, Jesus,。
and say, yes, God, we thank you for coming。
to do what we have experienced,。
what this world has already experienced,。
but God, that is not enough.。
When I look at those news, when I look at those stories,。
when I see those families being broken,。
when I see those people struggling。
when they lost their home,。
I knew that simply wasn't enough.。
We're not there yet.。
And so if there's one thing that should happen。
in the season of Advent,。
that there should be a longing from the people of God,。
there should be a cry from the bottoms of our hearts。
and say, God, Maranatha, Lord Jesus, come.。
You need to come.。
We cannot fix this problem.。
I cannot do that alone.。
We cannot do that.。
We cannot make things any better。
or maybe a little bit better,。
but we cannot solve all the problems here.。
If you don't come, if your spirit does not come,。
if your presence is not with us,。
we don't have what it takes.。
We don't know how to do that.。
We tried and we failed.。
Advent is the season.。
Yes, I know we wanna celebrate Christmas,。
but Advent is the season that forces us。
to look and remind ourselves,。
yes, there is a tension created by our faith。
because I believe Jesus would come back.。
So whatever I'm seeing right now, that's not right.。
That doesn't sit well with my heart.。
I'm gonna continue to pray for that.。
I'm gonna continue to pray for this process。
when God's kingdom is expanding on this planet.。
I wanna be a part of that.。
Advent should move us to a place。
where we look at Jesus and say,。
Jesus, you are gonna come back as a judge, as a king,。
and please do that.。
Please come back or please fill us with your presence。
during this season here.。
Advent begins in the dark.。
We have to sit in the dark.。
We have to wrestle with it.。
We're not just gonna look away from it.。
We're not just gonna pretend these problems do not exist.。
We're in a Christian bubble and we're feeling quite okay.。
We're not gonna do that.。
When this city suffer, we say we're suffering with them.。
We're gonna cry with them.。
We're gonna be with them.。
Advent begins in the dark.。
Means we need a reality check.。
We need to admit that the world is currently held captive。
by sin and darkness and death and powers and principalities。
that are behind the systemic evil。
and the issues we see in our world.。
We do not and cannot pretend things are fine.。
We should start naming the pain.。
We should be prayerfully start to look into the darkness。
and take an infantry.。
What is wrong right now?。
We should start praying into those things.。
We should look darkness into the eye and say,。
you know what?。
We don't belong here.。
There's something better God has promised.。
And so we're gonna like pray and say,。
come God, we want heaven come on earth.。
That's what Advent is about.。
It's not just about these two coming,。
but it's also about the present coming right now.。
God, we're praying by your Holy Spirit,。
come into this place, bring healing, bring comfort,。
you know, bring restoration.。
God, come, we know this is what you wanna do.。
But Advent always begins in the dark.。
We need to identify the darkness we are,。
the darkness around us.。
We need to identify the same kind of darkness。
that's perhaps also inside of us.。
When we talk about greed,。
I'm not sure if I really do any better。
than whoever caused the fire.。
There are times like I also wanna,。
well, for my own benefit,。
I also wanna just exploit others.。
I also just wanna take advantage of other people.。
When the chance present itself,。
I know I'm equally sinful.。
I know I also contribute to that darkness I see around me.。
I gotta sit here and face my own darkness.。
We're not immune to the evil。
that has torn apart so many families。
and destroyed so many lives this week.。
And being caught in this tension。
between the evil in this world and the goodness of God,。
you know, between how things are right now。
and how things should be,。
that would bring us a lot of questions.。
Or it would bring us to a place。
where we will be wrestling。
with a lot of questions in our hearts.。
I'm sure a lot of people, you might have asked why.。
I remember I was reading on threats,。
if you know what's threats.。
I was reading there, somebody would say,。
oh, I wish, you know, God would send rain.。
And I'm like, me too.。
And the next question is,。
how come God didn't send rain?。
How come this just happened。
to be the driest week in the year?。
You know, God, you could have sent rain, right?。
You know, sometimes even during winters,。
it just rain out of no reason, it just rain.。
How come the rain is not sent right now?。
How come, God, you could do this, but you didn't do that?。
How come this or that or that or that?。
I have all these questions as well.。
And when I read on social media,。
that's the questions that people ask。
when they're suffering, when they're paying.。
The common question is, where is God?。
If God is good, if God is powerful,。
why isn't he doing something?。
Why does he allow all this suffering?。
If we're living in that tension,。
we're inevitably be brought to this place。
to ask all these questions.。
And standing here as a pastor,。
I just wanna give you my answer.。
I don't know.。
And I don't wanna pretend.。
I don't wanna just give some intellectual answers,。
which I know that would never satisfy。
those broken hearts who are asking those questions.。
We thought logical answers may solve the issue,。
but no, they don't need a logical answer.。
They are just simply hurting.。
So church, if I could share this little tips,。
this week is not the time for apologetics.。
This is not the week to explain the majesty of God,。
the sovereignty of God to people.。
Wow, he's still sovereign, he's still mighty.。
This is not the week to do, so we'll have time to do that.。
This is not the time, this is not the week.。
If Jesus shows up right now,。
he's not gonna give explanations.。
He's simply, he's going to encounter people.。
They need to experience the reality of Jesus,。
not just getting an intellectual answer right now.。
I've been asking all these questions as well,。
and I realize, besides the question of why,。
one of the questions I ask sometimes,。
and I've been reading Psalm lately,。
and one of these phrase that comes up all the time。
in the book of Psalms is this phrase, how long?。
How long are you gonna ignore me, God?。
How long, my enemies are gonna triumph over me?。
How long, how long, how long?。
When you see somebody asking how long,。
you know they are in suffering.。
Nobody wants Disneyland to end.。
Nobody wants a party to end.。
When we're asking how long, it means we're suffering inside.。
And perhaps, perhaps we need to carry a different answer。
wherever we go.。
Perhaps when we face people who are asking questions。
about God's goodness, or kindness, and power, and might,。
maybe we don't have to rush to defend God.。
You know, I've been a Christian my entire life.。
If there's one thing I learned,。
it would be that God is my defender.。
I'm not his.。
He doesn't need me to be his defender.。
He is mine.。
We have a hurting city, asking a lot of questions right now.。
Funny enough, they don't need answers.。
They don't need head answers from us.。
They need a real encounter。
with the God who left heaven for our sake.。
They need to encounter the God in the manger,。
weak, humble,。
the God who chose to identify himself with the lowly,。
with a marginalized family.。
They need to encounter a God who could identify。
with their suffering,。
who willingly walk onto the cross。
at the very end of his life,。
and say, "I'm willing to enter human suffering."。
They need an encounter with this God,。
not just intellectual answers.。
And so, if you could, if we could,。
let's try that this week.。
If you see someone who's hurting with a lot of questions,。
don't rush to give them answers.。
Give them a hug.。
Say a prayer.。
Just sit with them.。
You know, Job, if you read the book of Job,。
his friends are very eager to give him answers。
and very eager to defend God,。
and you all see what happens.。
So if you haven't read that, go back and read it,。
and you will see, you will know that's a very bad idea。
to give people advice and answers when they're in pain.。
They need someone to say, "I know you're in pain.。
"And because I love you when you're in pain,。
"I'm in pain as well.。
"I'm here to share your pain.。
"I'm here to share your suffering."。
Advent begins in the dark,。
when we're willing to sit in the dark with them,。
when we're willing to look that darkness in the eye.。
But we don't stop there,。
because, you know, if we have,。
when we look at Advent this season,。
it doesn't just invite us to sit in the dark,。
but it also reminds us,。
remind us that we cannot solve the problem ourselves,。
just like what I said.。
But there's someone who could.。
Advent is the season that reminds us。
who can solve those problems.。
We need a rescuer from the outside.。
We cannot fix our own worlds.。
We cannot rescue ourselves.。
That's where the light comes in.。
That's the central image of Advent.。
When we talk about light in the Bible,。
in times like this,。
we have to be very careful.。
It's easy to talk about light.。
It's easy to talk about this,。
'cause we do that all the time,。
and we mention light all the time,。
but if we light up every lamp in this room,。
and we just try to light a candle,。
and that candle will just be a decoration.。
Sometimes when we said, you know,。
the light of Christmas,。
we light a candle in a bright room,。
and still that light is just a decoration in our life.。
Like, it's just okay, nice deco.。
Oh, it's good for pictures.。
Sometimes Jesus, we make Jesus just nice。
for pictures in our lives.。
Oh yeah, you know?。
Gives me a slightly better life,。
gives me a raise, you know,。
give me what I want.。
But if we sit in darkness,。
if we switch off every light in this room,。
and when we light the candle,。
that very tiny light actually will become a lifeline,。
and we need to know that.。
When we talk about the light of Christmas right now,。
the light of Advent,。
we're talking about a light that is so important。
to so many people in the darkness right now。
that it's actually their only lifeline.。
That's the only thing,。
that tiny little flame is the only thing。
that they could hold onto。
if we were generous enough to share that with them.。
You know, when the prophet Isaiah,。
when he prophesied about the coming of Jesus,。
he said this in Isaiah chapter nine, verse two.。
He says, "The people walking in darkness。
"have seen a great light.。
"On those living in the land of deep darkness,。
"a light has dawned."。
That was the biblical imagery。
of what Advent should look like.。
Advent happens, you know,。
that light comes, shine right into darkness.。
It's not just a candle light in a bright room。
just for deco,。
it's a light that would actually help people。
who are in darkness,。
and that's the realism of Christmas.。
That's Christmas, as Tim Keller puts it this way,。
is that Christmas is actually the most unsentimental,。
realistic way of looking at life.。
Christmas is the most unsentimental。
and realistic way to look at life.。
Why?。
Because there are two things。
that Christmas is here to push back.。
Number one, Christmas,。
it contradicts with human optimism.。
The idea that we can fix it if we try harder.。
The idea that, yeah,。
if we pull everyone together,。
humanity, we could make it,。
we could do it ourselves,。
we don't need any higher power.。
Christmas contradicts this human optimism.。
The message is that it's exactly opposite to this.。
It say, "Humanity, we cannot save ourselves,"。
but it also contradicts to utter despair.。
The voice that says,。
"You know, look at the brokenness in our world,。
"the corruption, the negligence,。
"how fragile your life is,"。
and all that,。
and concludes that darkness is the only inevitable ending.。
There's no hope in this world.。
Christmas is a message that contradicts。
this utter despair as well.。
So Christmas contradicts with human optimism。
that says, "We can fix things ourselves,"。
but Christmas also contradicts。
with the very message of despair,。
saying there is no hope in this world.。
Because Christmas, it has to,。
it's a message about living in this tension。
that God has already made a move,。
he has already done something,。
but we're not fully there yet.。
Christmas shows us that tension。
when we're living in between.。
It's not indifference to darkness,。
but resistance to it.。
It says, "Things really are this bad right now。
"when we look at the world,。
"when we look at Hong Kong,。
"when we look at our lives,。
"and we can't heal or save ourselves.。
"Things are really this dark,。
"but nonetheless, there is hope."。
Not because what we can do,。
but because what God has done,。
because the light has dawned upon the world.。
It didn't spring from within the world,。
it came from outside.。
And this light is not just a concept,。
it's not just moral teaching,。
it's not just if you do ABC,。
then you will get a better result.。
Light is not a concept, it's not an idea.。
Light is a person, the Bible tells us.。
And this person's name is Jesus Christ.。
Light is Jesus Christ.。
He's the embodiment of this light.。
If we look at John 1,。
Gospel of John, the first chapter,。
the first five verses, it says this,。
"In the beginning was the Word,。
"and the Word was with God,。
"and the Word was God.。
"He was with God in the beginning.。
"Through Him all things were made.。
"Without Him nothing was made that has been made.。
"In Him was life,。
"and that life was the light of all mankind."。
And he says this,。
"The light shines in the darkness,。
"and the darkness has not overcome it."。
I just wanna focus on this last word, overcome.。
In the original Greek, it has two different meanings,。
and this is a masterpiece of plan ambiguity.。
Like, John used a word that could mean two things,。
but he means both at the same time.。
So the first meaning is that。
darkness could not conquer light.。
It's like a physical conquering kind of sense.。
But the second idea is that,。
I think we might have a slide for that.。
The second idea is that the darkness。
could not fully comprehend the light。
in a cognitive sense.。
The darkness could not conquer the light.。
The darkness of systemic greed,。
of negligence, of death itself,。
it tried to extinguish Jesus,。
but it failed.。
It cannot conquer light.。
But this darkness also couldn't comprehend the light.。
The system of this world literally cannot understand a God。
who would suffer for his people.。
That's not how power works for this world.。
That's not how control works for this world.。
That's not how, if you're in charge, you shouldn't do that,。
but God shows us a different way of light,。
a different way of power,。
a different way of victory。
that the world, that darkness could not comprehend.。
So what does light actually do。
when it arrives in our lives?。
It doesn't just hang in the sky to be admired.。
It acts, this light actually acts in our lives.。
There are at least like three things。
that we desperately need in this week。
that light could do for us,。
this light Jesus Christ could do for us.。
First, light, light always brings life.。
Now biologically speaking, we're still alive。
because there is light, there is light from the sun,。
there's light and warmth from the sun.。
That's why we're still literally alive.。
We need sunlight.。
Everything, without sunlight,。
everything dies on this planet。
and many other planets as well.。
A world without light is cold, just a cold, sterile rock.。
And spiritually, the same is true.。
When we're cut off from God,。
we experience spiritual darkness and death.。
We need to be plucked into the source of this light.。
We need this light in our lives.。
And a lot of people are experiencing。
some form of spiritual, like death-like kind of experience。
because of all the despair。
that they're going through right now.。
This light will give life.。
This light will give hope.。
And the second thing is that light always brings truth.。
Imagine you have to be in a very dark room。
trying to look for something.。
Imagine if I ask you,。
if I show you a picture。
and ask you to describe it for me in a pitch dark room.。
There's no way you could do that.。
Only when there is light,。
we can really see what's going on.。
We thought we know what's going on in the city right now.。
I'm telling you, only when that light shines into this city,。
only when light shines into our lives,。
only when light shines into our family,。
into our workplaces,。
will we truly know what's going on in our lives,。
in our schools, in our workplaces, in our city.。
We need light to come and reveal the truth。
in a city, in our lives, in a neighborhood.。
And finally, light brings beauty.。
Again, we can't see color when there's no light.。
When you switch off the light,。
this piano is no longer red。
and this roof is no longer green.。
All you see is just gray and dark.。
You need light to bring out the beauty of life.。
I'm seeing a lot of people,。
they can see no beauty in their life right now。
because of what happened this week.。
We need that light to come and shine。
so that there could be beauty again in their lives.。
I'm not saying that that's an overnight process.。
I'm not saying that, you know,。
even if they come to know Jesus today,。
tomorrow they'll be fine again.。
That's a long process of healing.。
But I'm saying this, that light would bring life,。
that light would reveal truth,。
and the light would bring beauty.。
And that's what our city needs right now.。
That's what Advent, it's reminding us today.。
So this light is not just a poetic idea.。
It is the life that wakes us from the dead.。
It is the truth that freezes from the lie.。
It is the beauty that saves us from despair.。
And how do we get that light?。
We don't earn it.。
We don't climb up to it.。
This light comes from a gift of grace.。
It's just the grace of God.。
This is the one gift, you know, the Christmas gift,。
the gift of Christ is a gift that you need。
to swallow your pride and say,。
if you say I can do things myself,。
you will never accept Jesus.。
When you accept Jesus, you mean,。
yeah, I can't do it on my own.。
That takes humility.。
But once we get that right, once we receive this light,。
Jesus also says you will be the light of this world.。
The kind of life you receive,。
the kind of truth that reveals in your life,。
the kind of beauty that we see,。
we will be able to let this light shine through us。
in this city.。
We need to come back in this event.。
We need to come back.。
We need to start with in the dark.。
We need to come and gather around.。
As we're about to light one of these candles,。
we need to be reminded that yes,。
we're in a dark place and we are not scared of it.。
We're here to even to take inventory。
of the darkness inside of us,。
the darkness in our city right now.。
We're gonna pray right into it,。
but we're also going to welcome that light。
to come and shine.。
And that's what we're going to do right now.。
We're going to deem the lights of this room.。
As we enter into that kind of darkness,。
I'm inviting all of us,。
I'm inviting us,。
Advent begins in the dark.。
Do not be afraid to sit in the dark.。
Do not be afraid to name those darkness。
that we see around us right now.。
Why don't we have the lights off right now?。
Let's have the team come back.。
I wanna invite you to pray right now.。
We do not light the Advent candle today。
to pretend the darkness of this week didn't happen.。
We light it to declare that even the thickest darkness。
of human negligence and death。
cannot overcome the coming king.。
That whatever darkness we see in this city,。
it will not overcome the light that we have received.。
And we do want to declare that over our city.。
So I do wanna start by inviting you to pray.。
Whatever you've seen on the news,。
whatever you've experienced,。
why don't we just bring them to God and say,。
God, I see this darkness in my city right now.。
God, I've seen that darkness in my life right now.。
God, I need you to come.。
Father, we lift up.。
We lift up the brokenness of this city。
to you right now, God.。
Father, the evil, the selfishness, the suffering,。
that should not exist, that should not be here.。
Father, we lift up our issues to you right now.。
We lift up our issues to you right now.。
And in a moment, John and Amy, they will represent us。
as representatives of this church.。
They're going to light up one of these candles.。
They're going to declare the very words。
that Jesus declared over himself.。
A prayer of light, a prayer of hope.。
So may I invite John and Amy up right now.。
Thank you.。
This is not, what we are about to do is not a ritual.。
It's not just something we do because we're religious,。
because it's on a church calendar.。
What we're about to do is symbolic,。
it's prophetic over this city.。
That over the darkness we have seen,。
over the darkness we have experienced,。
we declare that there's light in this city.。
This is the promise we make to this city as a church.。
That as long as God still put us here,。
he still put us here in Yuen Long, in Hong Kong,。
we will, we will, we will shine his light.。
The city is not doomed.。
There will be hope in Jesus' name.。
(soft piano music)。
(soft piano music)。
(soft piano music)。
(soft piano music)。
(soft piano music)。
(soft piano music)。
(soft piano music)。
(soft piano music)。
(soft piano music)。
(soft piano music)。
- John 8, 12.。
When Jesus spoke again to the people,。
he said, "I'm the light of the world.。
"Whoever follows me will never walk in the darkness,。
"but will have the light of life."。
- Dear Heavenly Father,。
we stand before you today,。
praying to you in seeking your help。
as our city is experiencing immense sadness。
and loss over the tragic fire。
that took place this past week.。
Dear God, as we all look up to you,。
we know you're a God who can make the impossible possible.。
We pray for your healing。
and helping to lift the heavy burden of pain and suffering。
so many people are going through.。
The pain and anguish felt by so many,。
in many ways, has traumatized。
by what we've seen and experienced this past week.。
We want to pray for those whose lives。
were suddenly snatched away,。
innocently, and are now with you.。
We pray to you, that God, that they may find,。
may rest and find peace and comfort in your presence.。
We pray for your healing through those,。
through your words and through your spirit and words,。
to those families and friends who were left behind.。
We pray that you will shower them with your blessings.。
Let your spirit be a blanket that will cover。
and protect the families that go through their grief.。
Let your blessings,。
let your blessings cover them.。
(breathing heavily)。
As they go through this darkness, dark period,。
we pray in the name of the Father, amen.。
Amen.。
Thank you.。
