Thank you, Carla.。
Good morning, how's everyone doing?。
Good, good to see you guys.。
I want to just say hi to everyone watching online。
around the world, half my family's in Japan,。
I just want to say hi.。
And outside, you guys, I wish you were here,。
but I'll join you guys in a week or two.。
And I also just want to say hi, Upper House,。
I can't see you, but I know you're there.。
Welcome, my name is Justin, one of the pastors here.。
If this is your first time, I personally want to welcome you.。
We feel like a big church, but once you get to know us,。
it gets better, so come to Newcomers today,。
it's gonna be fun.。
Yeah, so the Vine has been my home。
for almost the last two decades.。
I came here as a young adult, I served,。
got called into ministry, continue to remain。
in ministry right now, met my wife here,。
celebrated the milestones of life with a lot of you,。
and so this is my home here.。
And so you may ask, Justin, what do you do?。
Well, let me tell you, I am a pastoral care pastor.。
What that means simply is when you email me,。
I reply to your email, and together with my pastoral team,。
we figure out a way to support and walk with you.。
And so do reach out if there is anything,。
yeah, we would love to serve you.。
And so in the past four weeks, if you've joined us,。
we are in a series of forgiveness.。
And so we've been reflecting on the different aspects。
of forgiveness, what it is, what it isn't,。
that we cannot forgive, we cannot forgive on our own strength。
and that the core, what makes Christianity so special。
and unique is that it is centered around forgiveness。
and that forgiveness renews us.。
And last week, we had the privilege of having Pastor Jennifer,。
Pastor Jess, Allison, and Charles remind us。
that we cannot forgive or extend forgiveness。
without the community.。
And the health of the church depend。
on whether we forgive or not.。
And so I would probably be confident to say。
that this is not an easy series.。
It's not easy because forgiveness is a reality。
that all of us must diligently work at and work through.。
Forgiveness is not something where we just wake up。
or we come to church and done, solved,。
or else, I don't know, I think we would be。
a lot more happier people, right, if that was the case.。
But it is a journey.。
Forgiveness is a discipleship journey.。
That means if you and I are serious about being a Christian,。
then we must take what Jesus says to focus on,。
which is forgiveness.。
So we're in it together and I hope you won't be scared。
and let us just keep on going.。
And so this week, my time with you,。
I want to just pack in a lot, but at the same time,。
I want today to be very practical.。
So we're gonna explore how to attain forgiveness。
for ourselves and wherever you are,。
no matter what season you're in.。
Maybe some of you don't even know why you're here。
in the church, but I'm so glad you're here。
because we're gonna figure out a way how you and I。
can engage in this journey of forgiveness.。
Is that all right?。
So I want to highlight three difficulties and complexities。
relating to attaining forgiveness for ourselves。
and hopefully we can, anyways, actually,。
I wanted to ask you.。
This is not on my script,。
but what is your sermon game plan?。
Do you have one?。
So when you come to church, do you have an expectation。
of how God might speak to you?。
You know, sometimes for some of us, we're like,。
oh, when we worship, God speaks to us.。
When we listen to the word of God, God speaks to us.。
So I want to encourage you today,。
whatever your sermon gaming plan is,。
I have been praying for the last many weeks。
that God would just speak one thing to you。
and that you would have the courage to hold onto that。
and work that out and figure out how that works。
in your life.。
Is that all right?。
So that is what I want to encourage you.。
So I want to begin, I want to set the scene for today。
and I'm gonna read us this beautiful passage。
in Luke 7, verse 36 to 50.。
So the context is this story is about the interaction。
between Jesus and Simon the Pharisee。
who invites Jesus to his house。
and also this story is about an unnamed sinful woman。
who is a prostitute.。
She comes unannounced to Simon's house。
and we're gonna look at this together.。
And as I read this, I want you just to think about one thing.。
I want you to consider, okay,。
why some people can love God more than others.。
Okay, so you can read with me if you want.。
Verse 36, when one of the Pharisees。
invited Jesus to have dinner with him,。
he went to the Pharisee's house and reclined at the table.。
A woman in that town who lived a sinful life。
learned that Jesus was eating at the Pharisee's house.。
So she came there with an alabaster jar of perfume.。
As she stood behind him at his feet weeping,。
she began to wet his feet with her tears.。
Then she wiped them with her hair,。
kissed them and poured perfume on them.。
Verse 39, when the Pharisee, that is Simon,。
who had invited Jesus saw this,。
he said to himself, if this man were a prophet,。
he would know who is touching him。
and what kind of woman she is, that she is a sinner.。
Jesus answered him, Simon, I have something to tell you.。
Tell me, teacher, Simon said.。
Two people owed money to a certain money lender.。
One owed him 500 denarii and the other 50.。
Neither of them had the money to pay him back.。
So he forgave the debts of both.。
Now which of them will love him more?。
Simon replied, I suppose the one。
who had the bigger debt forgiven.。
You have judged correctly, Jesus said.。
Then Jesus turned toward the woman and also said to Simon,。
do you see this woman?。
I came into your house.。
You did not give me any water for my feet,。
but she wet my feet with her tears。
and wiped them with her hair.。
You did not give me a kiss,。
but this woman from the time I entered。
has not stopped kissing my feet.。
You did not put oil on my head,。
but she poured perfume on my feet.。
Therefore, Simon, I tell you,。
her many sins have been forgiven。
as her great love has shown.。
But whoever has been forgiven, little loves little.。
Then Jesus said to this woman, your sins are forgiven.。
The other guests began to say amongst themselves,。
who is this who even forgives sins?。
Jesus said to the woman, your faith has saved you.。
Go in peace.。
Can we say that the response of the woman。
and Simon cannot be any more different?。
From the moment this sinful woman came into Simon's house,。
uninvited, unannounced, her actions,。
the way she loved and kissed and wept and anointed Jesus。
said that there was nothing too good for Jesus.。
This woman, the difference between this woman and Simon,。
we can say that this woman was fully conscious。
and could appreciate how much she was forgiven。
and that's why she could love the way she did.。
Now, Simon, by contrast,。
Simon from I think our perspective,。
we would say that he's a bit rude, he's a bit distant,。
he's a bit disrespectful for not even attending。
to the common courtesies that the Pharisees。
would have known such as washing the guest's feet,。
greeting with a kiss on a cheek,。
and of course anointing a guest with oil on their head.。
Perhaps Simon didn't fully comprehend。
how much God had forgiven him already.。
Perhaps Simon did not feel like he had to acknowledge。
the sins that he's committed.。
And so if I were to read into this a bit more,。
this story suggests that if,。
imagine if Simon in the moment of having Jesus。
in his own house realized what a sinful and wretched man。
he actually was and he just gave himself to Lord.。
What do you think would happen in this story?。
But in this story, it's the sinful woman。
who had such adoration and gratitude for our Lord Jesus.。
When I read this, I thought of growing up,。
my growing up story.。
I came to Christ, Christ found me as a wretched liar.。
I stole, I lied, I wrecked relationships when I was 16.。
I've not looked back ever since.。
And I remember when I came to Christ,。
I worshiped like this woman.。
You know, I would just weep in church,。
I would just fall down and pray,。
and to this day I still, I want to worship。
and love the Jesus like this woman did.。
But of course, you and I know life catches up.。
We encounter difficulties, we go through seasons.。
As we grow up, our values change,。
the way we see things change.。
And many days, I want to confess。
that I feel like I'm more like Simon.。
I come here, I'm a bit arrogant, a bit apathetic,。
my arms are crossed, I forget how much God。
has done in my life, I forget what God has done。
this week in my life.。
And as a result, I forget that I'm forgiven.。
But I go on living like I'm not forgiven.。
And that affects my love for you.。
That affects my love for my friends and family,。
those, my enemies it affects.。
And so if forgiveness is a discipleship issue,。
then today we can also say that forgiveness。
has everything to do with love。
and whether you can receive forgiveness.。
And this story radically reframes our approach。
to receiving forgiveness for ourselves,。
because if to receive forgiveness for ourselves。
requires love, then how do we attain that love?。
That love must be first the realization。
that we are forgiven.。
And from the fact that we're forgiven, we must respond.。
We must figure out and just look at。
what it means to be grateful.。
And then we take that next step.。
And so this morning, I want to just ask you。
to critically examine your own life.。
I'm not here to judge you, but I want you to,。
I'm gonna talk about three areas that hinder,。
and it really radically affects。
the way we receive forgiveness.。
And these three areas are, I wanna look at our sins,。
I wanna look at our excuses,。
and I wanna look at our guilt.。
And I want you just in this time,。
I know that God is already at work。
and that God would reveal to us just one thing,。
how any of these one things or maybe three things。
hold us back from receiving forgiveness.。
Is that all right?。
So the first thing we're gonna look at is our sin.。
And the reality is that all of us sin.。
Sin is our everyday human experience。
and it's part of our nature.。
It's something that we cannot part with.。
Isaiah 64, four reminds us,。
all of us have become like one who is unclean,。
and all of our righteous acts are like filthy rags,。
and like the wind, the sin sweeps us away.。
This scripture says that as long as we are。
in this moral decaying body, sin will dwell in us,。
and we cannot help but to commit inexcusable acts。
against God, against one another, and against creation.。
We cannot escape this reality.。
And to furthermore, our unchecked sin,。
if we do not look at our sin, take it seriously,。
then it's gonna have dire and long-term consequences。
in our life.。
For example, we know that unchecked sin。
will continue to disconnect us relationally.。
Unchecked sin, unrepented sin will continue。
to erect emotional barriers behind, between us,。
so that we cannot really communicate.。
We cannot really fully appreciate what we're doing.。
And of course, if we do not address。
and take our sin seriously, then our sin will cause us。
to act on our dark, insatiable desires,。
we'll act out in fear, our insecurities, our jealousy,。
our ego will continue then to cause hurt,。
will continue to destroy, abuse each other,。
manipulate, control, and seek retribution.。
But this morning I want to once again remind us。
of the gospel, the good news,。
is that no matter how dark it gets,。
no matter, even if we are all sinners by nature,。
the good news is that we are all equally placed。
to receive, to come to God and receive。
his free, merciful grace for us, just like this woman did.。
So this means that when we repent, when we confess,。
when we allow the Lord to say, "You are forgiven, go,"。
then we can, like this woman,。
truly love deeply and unashamedly.。
I want to read 1 John 1, 9 again.。
I know Ellison and Promise read this, but it's so good,。
especially in this context right now.。
This scripture says, "If we," church, "confess our sins,。
"God is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins。
"and purify us from all unrighteousness."。
So as we confess, the Holy Spirit comes to us。
and renews us and restores us and leads us。
in a path of healing, and this promise is as sure。
as the rising and the setting of the sun.。
However, I love these however, I want to warn you。
that, of course, this promise is conditional,。
depending on what we make of forgiveness.。
So, church, if we ignore and disregard this very reality。
that sin dwells in us and that is always at work against us,。
then our lives, sadly, will remain miserable.。
It will be difficult.。
We will get lost in it, which I don't think anyone wants.。
And so to disregard sin, sometimes what happens。
is that we just continue to pretend。
that everything's all right.。
Sometimes we run away.。
Sometimes we tell ourselves and others this false narrative。
so that we don't have to deal with anything,。
and sometimes we even use substances。
to help us ignore the reality。
that we have to confront our sin.。
And so our tendency to adequately not address our sin。
is probably the cause of a lot of our internal suffering,。
our emotional dis-ease, our anxiety,。
our fear of being found out, and of course,。
whatever happens inside, it just eventually。
gets pushed onto others around us.。
So how should we respond this morning?。
I want to say that we can start。
by accepting our propensity to sin.。
Now, I'm not advocating that we accept our sinfulness。
and carry on like it's no problem.。
I'm not saying that.。
I'm saying that would we have the courage today。
to look at our sinfulness and actually figure out。
how this is causing havoc in our lives,。
how it's hurting not just ourselves but those around us?。
Because our attempt to avoid the reality of sin。
is actually evidence and a symptom of our sinfulness.。
And what sin does is it will keep us in the dark.。
Sin will not want to be exposed.。
Our sin will prevent us from actually seeing clearly.。
And sin, of course, keeps us from doing。
what we ought to do, what we want to do,。
what we desperately, genuinely want to do,。
which is to change.。
And so, church, today, if you are serious。
about following Jesus, then let us take our sins seriously.。
I would say that acceptance is the immediate。
and long-term solution because as we journey。
on this way of receiving forgiveness,。
we encounter Jesus like this woman,。
and suddenly things look different.。
The second difficulty and complexity。
I want to look at today is our tendency to make excuses.。
As broken humanity, we cannot help。
but to habitually make excuses.。
I love making excuses.。
I don't know about you, but I genuinely,。
I mean, I don't love it, but I know I do it.。
We make excuses or we excuse ourselves。
from doing something because at the end of the day,。
we don't want to face reality.。
We don't want to face the consequences。
of our sin and the truth.。
And so what we do is we say deceptive things,。
i.e. we lie, in order to make ourselves feel better。
and to give this impression that, you know what?。
We're okay, I'm okay.。
And we do this by rationalizing, by blaming,。
by obsessively trying to put together the perfect alibi,。
the perfect excuse, so that we don't have to come to God,。
so that we don't have to come to each other.。
And let us think about Simon again。
because I feel like Simon's distancedness,。
his coldness in that moment,。
maybe could be explained by his excuses.。
You know, can you imagine what Simon。
must have said at that moment?。
You know, one, he was probably shocked。
at the woman's response, but he also probably said。
in his mind, you know what?。
I'm religious.。
I go to the temple every day.。
I teach at the temple.。
Ask anyone around me, ask these guests around me.。
I tithe.。
I'm a righteous man.。
And in a way, Simon self-justified himself。
from having to repent of anything.。
Therefore, he didn't confess,。
and therefore, his love remained little.。
And so in Simon Church,。
I think we have a cautionary tale here.。
And this cuts really close to home, especially for me.。
It's really easy for us to come to church on a Sunday。
and worship and leave here。
believing and imagining that we have already。
confessed our sins, when actually,。
sometimes our excuses tell us otherwise.。
So let me give you an example.。
We do this when we confess vague and general sins。
rather than being very specific。
about how I actually sinned against you,。
how I actually offended God.。
So because I think it's a lot easier。
to come here on a Sunday, or even just every day。
in your life, to say, Lord, I'm sorry.。
I'm gonna move on now.。
And you feel all right,。
but actually, you haven't dealt with the issue.。
And for me, if I were to be honest,。
there are so many Sundays.。
I know I'm supposed to be here, and I am here,。
but some days, my heart just says,。
Lord, this week has been so tough.。
I'm actually, I blame you for this week.。
I blame you for what this person said,。
and therefore, I'm not gonna worship you.。
Why would I worship you?。
And this conversation goes.。
But at some point, I just say, Lord, you know what?。
I'm just gonna trust that you're gonna do something。
to soften my heart.。
And so how do we respond to our tendency to make excuses?。
Well, I want to quote the great C.S. Lewis,。
'cause he offers some helpful thoughts。
on how we can counter this propensity of ours.。
First, we must remember that our God。
knows all the actual excuses we give。
better than all of us, right?。
This should be a comfort,。
because when Jesus died on the cross on our behalf,。
he already confronted our sin。
and the excuses that we would give,。
and he died in our place,。
in all its horror, malice, and resentment.。
This is why the woman could come to Jesus。
without any excuse,。
because the Lord Jesus knew exactly what she's done.。
She didn't have to justify anything,。
because what Jesus offered was freedom,。
and so she would rather have that freedom。
than suffer any, doesn't matter.。
You know, and the example that I think of is,。
well, when we go to a doctor,。
when was the last time you went to a doctor。
and you told them, hey, doc,。
I know I'm paying a lot of money for your time,。
but I want to tell you, I had a,。
this month I've been so healthy, I've been exercising.。
Thanks for listening, I don't need medicine, thank you,。
I'm just gonna go and pay.。
We don't go to a doctor to tell them how healthy we are.。
We go to a doctor to assess why we're so sick。
and we want to get better.。
And so likewise, this woman understood。
that when we come to Jesus, there is a promise,。
there is a possibility, a potentiality of freedom.。
So why would we not take that?。
And so today, if you come to God and say,。
Lord, would you forgive me?。
I think his answer would be yes, I am willing.。
The last complexity I want to look at。
is has everything to do with our guilt.。
Now, there are so many moments in all of our lives。
that we get overwhelmed by guilt。
because of what we've done, what we continue to do,。
what we've done in secret time and time again,。
and how, when we actually think about。
the ways we hurt each other, the guilt is real.。
And if we do not address our guilt,。
our guilt becomes shame, it becomes fear,。
it becomes just, we feel dejected and depressed。
and to a point where we spiral into these feelings。
of we're not worthy, we're unlovable,。
to a point where I've done so many terrible things。
that I'm unforgivable.。
And once again, I think about Simon,。
and I wonder, imagine if Jesus comes to your house。
and he tells you all the things that you haven't done.。
How do you feel?。
And I think Simon would have been plagued by guilt.。
And so as hard as we try, and I haven't done this yet,。
I haven't been able to pray away my guilt,。
I haven't been able to eradicate my guilt,。
so what I'm trying to say is I think all of us。
have come to this conclusion that we do not have any power。
and authority in us to excuse or forgive our guilt,。
or else there's no need for Jesus to die for us.。
Equally true, I think we've also tried。
that we cannot get rid of our guilt by our own strength,。
our own merit, by good discipline, by finding a balance,。
or having growing more resilience.。
And so Paul, in Romans 7, verse 24, he says,。
you know, our condition is that we are all a mess。
and a wretch, and so Paul asks who can rescue us。
from our sin and overcome this guilt within us.。
So right now, church, rather than think。
how do we get rid of this guilt,。
I want to reframe this question to say,。
church, how can we work at our guilt?。
How can we offer our Lord the guilt that we feel now?。
And the question is, are you willing。
to let go of this guilt?。
And so I think the starting point here,。
we can start with Romans 8, one, which says,。
there is therefore no condemnation。
to those who are in Christ Jesus.。
This scripture reminds us that we are no longer condemned。
because of what Christ has done for us。
and what we can never do for ourselves.。
Jesus, the only Son of God, he died the most gruesome,。
violent, and unspeakable death so that。
we will not be condemned by our guilt,。
but that we can actually, like this woman,。
experience a life of freedom,。
a life where there's no guilt,。
that guilt is not the leading,。
the guilt is not a God in our life.。
And so every time when we confess,。
every time when we come to God with our guilt。
and everything we've done, rather than being condemned,。
the Holy Spirit opens up and sets us free.。
So this sinful woman came to Jesus knowing full well。
that the Lord is not gonna condemn her,。
but condemn her sins, and that is a matter。
of difference of life and death.。
And so church, I want us this morning。
just to think about this one thing,。
and I think this is gonna take you。
the rest of your life to figure out,。
but I think it's a good question.。
Regarding our guilt that we feel,。
we have to ask ourselves, is the guilt。
that we are feeling right now。
the conviction of the Holy Spirit,。
or is the guilt that we feel right now。
the condemnation of the enemy?。
Because sometimes we just lop it into, oh, it's all God.。
And when things do not go well,。
things that cause us pain, we kinda lop it in with God,。
and so we therefore blame God,。
and we kinda go down this rabbit hole.。
And some of us don't get out of that until much later,。
and so I think this question is so key,。
because God wants to liberate us,。
he wants to free us and set us free。
from our sinful nature and our guilt,。
but at the same time, the enemy's doing everything。
to keep us condemned and ignorant and in the dark.。
So that's why when we say we don't do church alone,。
we don't walk alone, this is for the very reason。
we need one another to check in with each other,。
because we are so easily deceived.。
We live in a world where Satan is the prince.。
He is ruling, he is affecting everything.。
And so, not to get too gloomy,。
but I want us to be alert and sober-minded。
so that we can discern God's word, and how do we discern?。
This is what I would say, that we need the Spirit's help。
to open up our hearts to what God says is true about us.。
And what is true is that we're forgiven.。
What is true is that we are no longer condemned,。
and that will allow us to authentically seek God.。
You guys getting this?。
And so we turn to Jesus because he knows。
what we need forgiveness for,。
and that we don't need to struggle alone.。
And I wanna say one more thing about how we can respond,。
is that guilt can be good news,。
and it could be a gift and a grace of God to us。
if we allow it to.。
Because our guilt has a potential to get us going。
in this journey of discovering and being awakened。
that our sinful nature, our excuses,。
our guilt keeps us from God.。
And we can choose another way.。
And our guilt makes us aware。
that God's grace is that amazing,。
that God's grace is free, that God is merciful,。
and that he's patient because he knows。
how much we need to be set free.。
And so church, if there's one way I could propose。
that we can respond to everything I'm saying,。
how do we address our sin, our excuses, our guilt,。
I would say it's summed up neatly and beautifully。
in the practice of confession.。
I think churches in general,。
I don't think we talk about or practice confession。
as much as we should.。
'Cause I think if we did,。
we would hear less about pastors failing,。
we would hear less about relationships breaking down。
to a point where it would just mitigate.。
If we practiced confession, we would mitigate。
and Christians wouldn't be in the news。
for so much globally for scandals.。
And I want to say that if you're just joining right now,。
if you've just woken up, I want you to hear,。
this is the most important thing I have to offer.。
James 5, verse 16 says,。
"Therefore, confess your sins to each other。
"and pray for each other so that you may be healed."。
Confession is God's gift to us。
so that we would no longer be destroyed by our sin,。
by our excuses, by our guilt.。
He's calling us to grab a brother and sister in Christ。
because our brother and sister in Christ。
represents Christ to us.。
And when we go to our brother and sister in Christ,。
it's like going to God.。
And our brother and sister hears us。
and we can just be completely open.。
It's like, yes, I am a sinner.。
Yes, by nature, I don't want to do the things I do.。
Yes, all these excuses I want to tell you.。
Can I tell you also all the things I've done。
because of my guilt?。
And then you pray and the most miraculous thing。
happens here.。
The reason why we're Christians here。
is the divine mercy of God and the Holy Spirit。
comes to us and heals us.。
It's something I cannot explain in theology or in words,。
but it's what Christianity is all about.。
It's the living God encounter us sinners,。
but there is another way for us。
and this is what I'm talking about today.。
In recent years, I have three children.。
I've discovered through my three children。
that I have road rage even when I'm not driving.。
Seriously, that's, but you know what?。
I've come to accept that.。
I'm okay with that.。
It's taken 14 years.。
I also just, I am, you know, I worship Jesus。
and I also worship guilt, I feel like sometimes.。
A lot of what I do is just driven by guilt。
and I am aware of that.。
I'm okay, I can accept that.。
That's why I'm sharing this with you right now.。
And why I bring this up is, well, unfortunately,。
my wife, my helper or helper auntie, and three children,。
they're the ones that have to deal with this sin,。
deal with the excuses every day.。
And you know what?。
The most difficult thing to date is to go to them。
and ask for their forgiveness.。
You know, when I, before even I do that,。
I'm paralyzed, I have fear, I make excuses, right?。
I do not want to ask for forgiveness.。
But yet, at the same time, I know if I don't do this,。
I will die.。
If I don't ask for forgiveness,。
even if, forget about asking for forgiveness.。
If I do not confess, I cannot move on with my life.。
And just the possibility for shalom,。
possibility of reconciliation,。
I'm gonna bite the bullet and do it.。
But of course, it's so hard, you know, right?。
It's so hard because confessing,。
it just requires you to lay out your whole self.。
There is a risk.。
There is a risk that you will be rejected.。
There's a risk that you might be,。
I might be kicked out of the room for a moment, maybe.。
And it scares me.。
And actually, the scariest thing is,。
what if my children say, "Daddy, I don't forgive you。
"for this."。
But,。
I do believe that God works through us, right?。
He gives us that courage.。
And so I want to share something that my wife said,。
just a truth bomb.。
It was just beautiful.。
She didn't even know she was saying it.。
But we teach marriage prep course,。
and the last few weeks, we were talking about。
the need for forgiveness,。
the importance of forgiveness and confession.。
And she said this.。
Patsy said, "Even if things are dead inside,。
"forgiveness revives them."。
So, to be a Christian, you cannot grow as a Christian。
if you do not ever experience forgiveness.。
If you've never asked for forgiveness,。
you can come here every Sunday.。
You can join all the things that we offer here.。
But if you never experience God's grace in you,。
that leads you to repentance, that leads you to confess,。
that leads you just to say, "Hey, I'm a sinner。
"like everyone else."。
Then you won't grow.。
And I want so much for you to experience this today,。
and for the rest of your life,。
and it's gonna take a lot of work,。
but I think it's worth it.。
And I know I just said that it's hard to describe。
what this feeling is, and I don't have a theology for it,。
but I can at least try.。
So when we confess, when we ask for forgiveness,。
when we come to God, it's surprising.。
You are surprised when your heart feels lighter.。
There is something that shifts in you,。
and there is an unconventional relief,。
and a release that you cannot anticipate.。
The moment you say it, the person who you've offended。
says, "You know what?。
"We can work with that."。
You just, something shifts.。
And you know what?。
Doing this, you will never regret it.。
It's one of those things that as hard as it is,。
you'll never regret.。
And to confess and to receive forgiveness。
is like having a pain of a toothache suddenly stop,。
because that tooth has been removed.。
The numbness has stopped,。
and you feel that little empty space, and it's awesome.。
You feel the coldness of the ice cream, the warmth of soup.。
And of course, all of this is, it will feel unfamiliar,。
because the world says, "Well, why should I forgive?。
"Everything is conditional.。
"You treat me well, I'll treat you well."。
But actually, that is not what the Christian faith is about.。
The Christian faith is anti that.。
It's about walking this narrow road,。
which liberation and freedom, God's presence, is all for us.。
So I just want to say, just like Dr. Seuss。
and Green Eggs and Ham, I ask you to give it a try.。
And so, worship team, can I invite you?。
Thank you so much.。
Church, I know this is difficult,。
and thank you for staying with me,。
but I feel like it's so important。
that we recognize today that the journey。
of forgiveness is a marathon.。
It's gonna take, there's gonna be days。
where we don't even wanna talk,。
we don't wanna forgive, that's fine.。
But I want to remind us today that this journey。
that we walk on together, and you know what?。
The coolest thing is that when we walk on this journey,。
when we run, when we feel tired, we encounter Jesus.。
Even when we're not tired, and we're grateful,。
we encounter Jesus, and everything changes。
because of what he says to us, that he doesn't condemn us.。
And so, church, I want to also remind us。
that to grow as a Christian, to grow in revelation。
as a Christian, is gonna take time.。
And I hope you're okay with that.。
And lastly, I just want to remind each of us。
how the woman and Simon responded.。
Because the woman accepted her sinful life。
for everything that it was.。
She repented and was so grateful to be forgiven.。
The result, the consequence, the reward。
is that she was free, she was set free.。
And that's why she did what she did.。
Meanwhile, Simon, I think sadly, at least in this account,。
he remained in a bit of a darkness.。
He was unable to be fully alive。
because his sin kept him, his excuses,。
maybe the guilt held him back from just saying,。
Lord, just have everything.。
And so, church, I want to ask you to stand.。
And my only prayer for us right now。
is that you and I would have the courage。
to come to Jesus just as this sinful woman did.。
And also for us to say, Lord, forgive me as I am, like Simon.。
And so right now, I just, maybe you can close your eyes,。
maybe you can sit down if you want,。
maybe if you want to kneel,。
maybe you want to open up your hands.。
Earlier, I encouraged you to just have that courage。
to allow God to show you just that one thing.。
Perhaps it's the one thing,。
there's a sin in your life that is holding you back。
from receiving forgiveness.。
Perhaps today you realize that there's been this one thing。
I just kept on telling myself,。
this lie, this excuse, God is just showing you what that is.。
Or maybe for you, like me,。
it's just this incessant guilt at work,。
constantly in my life, leading me down paths。
I'd rather not go.。
Whatever it is, Lord, you know.。
And so we're not gonna excuse ourselves right now,。
we're just gonna sit here,。
we're gonna stand here and we're gonna say,。
Holy Spirit, have your way with our sin.。
Take our sin, Lord God, forgive our sin.。
Lord, we don't need to tell you how sick we are, you know.。
Thank you for accepting me for who I am right now,。
but Holy Spirit, come in your fullness。
and your gentleness and love and show me。
and renew me, restore me, heal me, Lord.。
And Jesus, we ask you for the rest of our life,。
would you give us the courage to address at full on,。
look at our guilt, look at our shame.。
We are worthy because of what you've done on the cross.。
We are forgiven, we are restored, thank you, Lord,。
and because of this right now,。
like this woman, we're just gonna worship you.。
We are gonna choose to worship you。
because the reality is that we are uncondemned。
and we are forgiven and you say。
that we can go in peace right now.。
And so give us courage to walk。
and run this marathon together.。
While Satan would want to keep us in the dark,。
Jesus, we run to you in the light right now.。
We weep at your feet, Lord God, we anoint you with oil,。
we praise you with our mouth and our bodies and our lives。
and the decisions we make, Lord, this is where we're at.。
So church, right now, I just want to call you to worship,。
call you to repent.。
I want you invite you to just confess。
because this is what God wants for us.。
This is God's will for us, if you would ask.。
So let us worship together, let us respond.。
