Church, once again, it's good to see this room filled.。
My name is Justin, one of the pastors here, and I just want to, on behalf of the church,。
welcome everyone, especially if you're tuning in for the very first time.。
This is your first time. Welcome.。
Likewise for everyone here, if you came with a friend, if you're curious, you came.。
If for a miraculous reason you're here, we're glad you're here.。
I want to give a special shout out to our youth. Flight is here.。
I know you guys are all around.。
And so every Sunday, Flight joins us for service, so it's awesome to have you guys with us.。
Yeah, so I just want to welcome everyone.。
And can I see a show of hands if you were here last week,。
whether you're watching online or you tuned in, were you guys here?。
Can I see you? Higher, higher. Yeah, don't be shy.。
All right, that's almost everyone.。
Hey, Pastor Andrew's going to speak into this, but I just want to say last Sunday was beautiful.。
Now, it might have been a bit hard at the beginning. What? Like pray for people?。
But actually, you know what? This is what church is supposed to be.。
This is the normal Christian life.。
So if you missed last Sunday, I want to encourage you to go back last week,。
and you can re-listen to Pastor Andrew's message, but also just watch till the end,。
because what we did together, what we experienced is the norm.。
And it is our prayer that together we can build and rebuild a culture out of the fifth wave。
so that we can live out what we read in the Bible. Amen?。
Okay, so if you're new here, this is the church that we want to continue to be.。
And for everyone else, if you are curious, if you have questions,。
there's many ways that you can connect with us.。
You can email us, info@divine.org. We'll answer you.。
The best way, I always say this, is to ask the person sitting beside you.。
If you have questions, if you want to know, we are a big church.。
If you have questions, you want to get involved, you want to know our history,。
maybe they can--I hope you guys can share enough, you know, that will get our new friends curious.。
But also, we have a Connect Hub outside.。
We are there just to connect you. If you want to get involved, if you want to serve,。
then please stick around.。
And today, you know, in the last while, we've been exiting through the fire escape.。
And I just want to say that last Sunday was the last time you'll ever do that.。
So we want to just remind you not to rush.。
We don't actually want you to rush out of here.。
Even if you have plans, we don't want you to rush out.。
But basically today, we're all going to exit the church the same way you came up.。
And one of the reasons why is we want you just to stick around.。
We want you to chat.。
Because sometimes, like, leaving through the fire escape just feels like we need to leave immediately.。
And we want to change that once again. We're trying to change our culture.。
And so I think that is--oh, yes, and also serving.。
You know, in the last few weeks, we've been asking you if for those of you who are looking for a place to serve,。
we actually have many opportunities throughout the service and also throughout the week.。
But going back to what I was just saying, you know, like we're trying to just live out the word together.。
We're trying to just regather what it is to be a Christian.。
You know, actually to be served, I think all of us need to serve.。
All of us can't just receive and receive.。
We actually need outlets to give.。
And so I just want to ask each of you, if you call the Vine your home church, just to discern how you are to serve.。
We're not asking you to all serve at the church, right?。
But actually I want to ask you to serve--how do you want to serve at work?。
How do you want to serve in your home place?。
How do you want to serve with your energy and the resources, everything that's given to you?。
And it takes discernment.。
But for those of you who want to serve at the Vine, once again, just scan the QR code and you can continue to figure that out.。
I'm going to invite Pastor Andrew, and we're going to pray together.。
Good morning, everyone. How are you guys doing?。
Everybody okay?。
So I think many of us in this room will recognize and know that yesterday, June 4th, was an important date in Hong Kong and China's shared history.。
And here at the Vine, you know, we've always wanted to be a church that responds pastorally in moments and events that take place in our city.。
We're a church that's called to be on behalf of the city.。
And so when our city is going through something, we always want to be a pastoral response.。
And so what we're going to do today is I wanted to create some space in our service to pray for you to have some chance to reflect.。
I'm going to create some space in the prayer time for you to be able to bring your own prayers.。
We're going to have a time of silence together where you can bring your own reflection and prayer.。
And then I'm going to finish this time in praying a blessing both over Hong Kong and also over China as we move forward in a shared history together.。
So I wonder whether you would just bow your heads with me, close your eyes, and let us pray.。
Dear Lord Jesus, we come as a community to you this morning as we reflect on the tragic and heartbreaking events of 33 years ago.。
We invite you to come now and to minister to us through both scripture and prayer.。
Psalm 86 says, "Hear us, Lord, and answer us, for you guard our lives and you have mercy on us.。
For you, Lord, are forgiving and good. You abound in love to all who call on you."。
So we come today and we call on you to meet us in this time of reflection and prayer.。
We acknowledge the many feelings that are in this room and in our city at this time.。
Those who are grieving, mourning, remembering, feeling forgotten or unheard.。
We ask, Lord, that you would be present with them in this time.。
That you would be merciful to them, helping them to know your love and your goodness.。
Lord, we also pray for any in Hong Kong this weekend who are in need of peace.。
We recognize our call to be peacemakers as children of God.。
And so today we pray for this peace.。
That as his church we would be a pastoral presence for any in our city who face trauma, tragedy or struggle.。
Psalm 86 also says, "But you, Lord, are compassionate, gracious, slow to anger, abounding in love and faithfulness.。
Show us your strength on behalf of your servants."。
So Father, we ask today for your strength in this time.。
We ask for your compassion, your grace and your faithfulness to be found in us.。
So that we may be strong as your servants to any in our society who are in need of care in this time.。
We will now have a time of silence for you to be able to bring your own reflections and prayers at this time.。
[Silence]。
Father, we give you these prayers of ours and we lay them down at your feet as an offering before you.。
We thank you that you hear each and every one of them.。
And that you always respond to the prayers of your people.。
We finish our time of prayer by asking for a blessing to come to our city of Hong Kong and to the broader nation of China.。
We know that there are many lords still in China that are in need of the gospel.。
We pray for a blessing to be on the church in China to be able to rise up and share and be your hands and feet in this time.。
We also recognize the many in Hong Kong who still also need to hear of Jesus.。
Lord, we pray that your church in this city would also be strong.。
That we would be able to proclaim the gospel in Hong Kong and in China in our shared history as we move forward together.。
We thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says? Amen.。
Thank you guys so much for praying. That's so important for us just to take that time.。
You know, today, June 5th, is also a very important day in the diary because it's Justin Ho's birthday today.。
Like, yeah, yeah, I know.。
So can we sing happy birthday?。
Happy birthday to you.。
Happy birthday to you.。
Happy birthday dear Justin.。
Happy birthday to you. Yay!。
Alright, I'm going to pray for you Justin.。
40 years old today. 40 years young!。
I know!。
Justin reminded me earlier that he served here at the Vine.。
We've served alongside each other since he was 29.。
So it's been a wonderful time and I know that there will be many years ahead.。
Let me pray for you my friend.。
Father, we thank you for birthdays and we thank you for this man and for his faithfulness to this city.。
His faithfulness to this congregation, this people.。
His faithfulness to us as a leadership and on leadership here at the Vine.。
So I just want to pray a blessing for him, for Patsy, for the kids.。
You'd fill him today as he celebrates this day of his birth.。
And we just thank you for this in your name.。
Amen. Amen.。
Thank you. That was not expected.。
I'm ready to go guys now.。
Actually, I have a few more announcements and then we're going to take up our offering.。
And Pastor Andrew is going to come and give today's word for us.。
And so just a few things.。
For June 12th, next Sunday, two important things are going to happen.。
One is our EGM where we're going to hopefully, for us voting members,。
we're going to vote in our new elder, Sky Sue.。
And so that's going to be exciting.。
So if you want to join, please, you can just fill out a form and you can actually be able to vote Sky in.。
And another thing is going to happen starting next Sunday.。
Are you ready for this?。
We are going to downsize our services a little.。
Rather than having four services, we're going to have three services.。
We're going to have the 9, 15, 11 a.m. and 2 p.m.。
And we've realized recently, we've discerned and we've seen that we just have lower numbers in the 2 p.m. services.。
And therefore, it just kind of makes sense to consolidate, put together the 2 and the 4 p.m.。
And once, you know, we'll see how things go and we'll announce once again when we have four services.。
But starting next Sunday, we're going to have 9, 15, 11 and 2.。
Is that okay?。
But for those of you watching online, continue to join us at 11 a.m.。
I think that's right. Yes.。
All right.。
And, you know, I think in the last while, all of us have postponed a lot of things, especially I think a lot of us getting married.。
You know, last year has been difficult.。
I know there's a lot more weddings.。
And another thing that we had to postpone since last month and it's been a long while is our flight relaunch, which is happening today in Wan Chai Park at 1 p.m.。
And so if you are a teenager, you want to check out flight.。
If you are a parent of a teenager, if you're a parent of a teen to be, if you want to serve our teens, if you want to serve at flight,。
today is actually a really great opportunity to meet Pastor Grace, to meet our other youth and parents.。
And that's happening after service, 1 p.m.。
And Grace, can you just say hi?。
Can you stand up just to say hi?。
This is Pastor Grace.。
And she did say at any time, go back, you know, go to her.。
And if you see her here, go and say hi.。
She would love to answer any questions you have about flight and what she does and who she is.。
And, yeah, so we welcome that.。
The last announcement is very important is this Tuesday, we are going to have an all-church prayer meeting.。
We haven't had this in a long while.。
And this is one of our first ones.。
And we are going to have it both physical and online.。
So we would just basically love to see everyone there.。
We're going to pray for our church plant.。
We're going to pray for the next year as Pastor Tim and Pastor Ivan.。
And the many of you who are going to volunteer, we want to hear God together.。
We want to lean in and see what he is saying to us as we prepare this year.。
So it's going to be 730 here in the auditorium until 930 and also 730 online.。
So please, please do join us.。
Please clear out your schedule.。
We would love to see you guys there.。
And I think just with this church meeting, this prayer meeting, as well as offering that we're about to take,。
I just want to say once again, last week is announced how much you have given, you know, how much we've raised on Vision Sunday.。
Our goal target was 5.8 and we have 6.3, right?。
So Pastor Tim, Pastor Ivan and the whole team will have a whole year where they can just focus on discipleship building.。
They can just pray.。
They can actually have that space to not worry about finances.。
And so, but this comes out of your generosity.。
This is a miracle.。
Like I keep on telling people in the last two weeks, like this is crazy.。
And we've had the lowest numbers.。
Well, we had pretty low numbers.。
Like we had like 800, 900 people for that Sunday.。
But yet God, through your generosity, really just, yeah, just helped us.。
So church, I want to pray as we give, as we continue just to really discern how God wants us to give,。
whether through a church plant, whether through your own lives.。
So church, would you pray with me?。
And afterwards, Pastor Andrew is going to come up.。
Father, we give you our lives again.。
We surrender the things that you've given us.。
We also surrender our energy and the things that we hope to give, Lord God.。
We pray that you would show each of us how to be generous like you, how to continue to lay down our life to serve,。
how to continue to emulate your son, Jesus, in our lives and reflect that so that the world may know that there is a God,。
that there is grace, that is redemption, and that there is a church who longs to just share the good news.。
And so, Father, would you be glorified through our giving.。
In your name we pray. Amen.。
Amen. Can we thank Justin for all that he is, all that he does?。
Amazing. You can have your Bible.。
So last week, hey, by the way, how are you?。
Everybody okay?。
All right. Last week I said to you that I wanted to introduce you to two of the most important and influential people in the New Testament。
and help you to understand how their story has significantly shaped your own.。
And I said last week that the interesting thing about these two people is they are probably people that you're not very familiar with.。
And that says something quite beautiful about who God is.。
Our God is a God who loves to use people to change history that so often the world very quickly forgets about.。
It's these small people, if you will, that God so often uses for his greatest glory.。
I said last week that large doors so often swing on small little hinges.。
And every single person in this room is a small hinge, if you will, for Jesus.。
And there's so much that he wants to do in and through us.。
So last week I introduced you to the first of these characters.。
I introduced you to Ananias.。
Ananias, a person that's only mentioned once, not really mentioned again.。
A person who wasn't particularly powerful or had a big name.。
But someone God chose to go to a house in Damascus, lay his hands on a man called Saul, pray for him,。
see a miracle take place where he goes from blindness to receive sight.。
And Saul is transformed into Paul.。
And Ananias gets to do this.。
And I said last week that every single one of us in this room is an Ananias.。
That the same spirit that was on Ananias in that moment sits and lives inside of us.。
That our great call is to also lay hands on one another, speak truth over each other,。
pray for each other and believe that by the Spirit of God we would come alive together.。
And last week as we did that, as I asked you to do that at every single service here,。
it was unbelievable what God did.。
I mean honestly it was one of my most favorite Sundays that we've had here.。
I know you're not supposed to have a favorite Sunday, but it's like one of my favorite Sundays for years and years and years.。
As I saw everybody across our four services pray for people.。
Like not us pray for you, you pray for you.。
And the power of the Spirit in the room doing that was so amazing.。
We got emails in this week from people who were testifying about healings that they'd experienced,。
testifying about salvation.。
Some people had shared with some people and they didn't know Jesus or they hadn't given their lives to Jesus。
and salvation took place during that time.。
And one gentleman reached out to me and he said, "I'm a Korean and I come to the Vine。
and I didn't know there were any other Koreans here.。
And I was a little bit nervous about praying for people because my English and my Cantonese is not very good.。
And the guy sitting next to me was a Korean.。
And so we chatted in Korean and prayed together."。
And I'm like, "That's awesome."。
There are quite a lot of Koreans in our church, I just want to say.。
There are.。
But anyway, so that was awesome.。
That was great.。
There was lots of testimonies like that.。
And here's the thing that I wanted to say.。
As excited as we were about last week,。
my heart is and my sense is that that was just the tip of the iceberg about what God wants to do amongst us.。
That there's actually so much more by the Spirit of God that He wants to do in a church。
that genuinely spiritually cares for each other.。
And what we're going to do, you know, we're not going to force you to do that every week.。
I kind of forced you to do it last week because it was part of being in Ananias.。
But we're not going to do that every week.。
But we want to kind of put a culture in here at the Vine。
that when you come in on a Sunday, your expectation, your thinking is not,。
"I'm coming in to sit in a chair, to sing some songs, to receive a message and then leave."。
No, your thinking is, "I'm coming into church because I have something spiritually to contribute。
to the lives of the people around me.。
That I want to actually draw around them and I want to be used by God to speak into someone's life."。
Because guess what?。
I want someone to speak into my life.。
I need someone to come and lay their hands on me and pray for me.。
And wouldn't it be amazing if every week at the Vine,。
we just paused to look at our neighbors and kind of take the courage to say,。
"Is there some way I can pray for you?"。
And so what we saw last week, we're believing.。
We're not going to mandate it.。
We're not going to force you to do it.。
But I'm just believing as the Spirit of God stirs inside of us,。
you're going to have a hunger to say, "I want more of that."。
And guess what?。
The power, the Spirit sits in you.。
And what I loved about last week is so many of you were able to do this.。
You were able to take a circumstance and a situation from somebody。
and connect it to something that God was doing in their life.。
And you were able to pray into that connection of a circumstance,。
a situation in the world, and God and His kingdom and the Spirit.。
And bringing the world and the kingdom together is exactly what today is all about.。
I want to introduce you to the second of these characters。
that have literally changed the world and changed how we think about church.。
And again, it's somebody that you're probably not very familiar with.。
And like last week, where that story of that individual, Ananias,。
sat within a bigger narrative of a more famous Christian, Paul.。
So today's hero, their story, her story,。
sits within the larger narrative of another famous disciple in the New Testament,。
that of Peter.。
And in this story, we see Peter at a moment of his life。
that was the most tragic and most difficult.。
Peter had some pretty big tragedies and some pretty difficult moments in his life,。
throughout his life.。
He was one of those guys who sometimes had it right and sometimes had it wrong,。
who kind of opened his mouth and put his foot in it。
and sometimes said great things and sometimes said really weird things.。
That was kind of Peter's journey with Jesus.。
Like, "Who are you, Lord?"。
Then it was like, "You're the Son of God."。
Then it was like, "I deny you. I don't know who you are."。
Then it's distraught, back fishing.。
Then God meets him with a fire on the beach。
and has breakfast with him in the resurrection.。
And then Peter is filled again with forgiveness。
and he becomes the central rock of the early church.。
He stands before the Sanhedrin and he preaches the gospel.。
He's flogged and he's beaten for it.。
But he says, "I'm counted worthy of being persecuted for the gospel."。
And then at this time in the story, he's arrested.。
And he's placed in prison.。
And he's literally days away from his execution.。
I mean, this is about as hard as it gets for Peter.。
And the question the passage asks is,。
"Is anyone going to be able to help this man?。
Is anyone going to be able to save him?"。
And large doors swing on very small hinges.。
I want to introduce you today to another small hinge。
who's going to blow your mind.。
This story is found in Acts chapter 12.。
It's perhaps my favorite story in the whole of Acts.。
And I said exactly that about Acts 9 last week.。
But I'm allowed to change my mind every week, okay?。
This is my favorite story in all of Acts.。
I love this one.。
All right, Acts 12 verse 1. Are you ready?。
Okay.。
"It was about this time that King Herod arrested some who belonged to the church,。
intending to persecute them.。
He had James, the brother of John, put to death with the sword.。
When he saw that this pleased the Jews,。
he proceeded to seize Peter also.。
This happened during the Feast of Unleavened Bread.。
After arresting him, he put him in prison,。
handing him over to be guarded by four squads of four soldiers each.。
Herod intended to bring him out for public trial after the Passover."。
So I tell you each week that Luke is a master storyteller.。
And each week as I'm preaching out of the Scriptures,。
I want to model for you what Bible study is like,。
how you can approach the Scriptures for yourself.。
And each week I say that the opening part of a passage。
is often the most critical to understand the broader narrative。
that's important for your interpretation of what happens.。
And here we see the exact same thing happening.。
So first of all, Luke, the storyteller, he tells us about Herod.。
Now this is the different, this is not the same Herod。
as the Herod that was there at Jesus' birth,。
the one who ordered the genocide of all the children under two。
in and around Bethlehem.。
This is actually, that's Herod's grandson,。
who's also called Herod, which is a bit confusing,。
but it's his grandson.。
And this Herod's interesting because he's Roman,。
but history tells us that he actually had some Jewish ancestry in him.。
So he was part Roman and part Jewish,。
and in a way the perfect person to govern Judea at this time.。
But because he was part Jewish, he had a certain tendency。
to want to please the Jews in the area that he was serving.。
And so he had arrested James.。
Now this is not James, the brother of Jesus.。
This is James, who's the son of Zebedee, one of the 12.。
And this James is arrested by Herod, and Herod puts him to death.。
It literally says here he was killed by the sword.。
Now that should make you stop and think,。
because Roman governors, when they wanted to kill someone,。
their execution was on a cross, like what happened with Jesus.。
Crucifixion wasn't just for Jesus.。
It was the general way that the Romans kill people.。
But here in the text, this Roman governor doesn't use a crucifixion for James.。
He uses the sword.。
Now the reason is, is because in the Jewish law of the first century,。
in the midrash, if somebody was an apostate,。
they were allowed to be killed by stoning or by the sword.。
And what Herod does in killing this James by the sword,。
he's sending a message to all of the Jewish people in the area.。
And he's saying, "I agree with you. Christianity is wrong.。
I agree with you. We don't believe Jesus is the Messiah.。
And anybody who does is an apostate.。
And watch, I kill him with the sword to confirm to you。
that I agree that Christianity is wrong."。
Now this pleased the Jews, so much so that Herod's on a roll.。
So he's like, "Well, who else can I arrest?"。
"Well, I'm going to arrest the most famous church leader in that moment.。
That was Peter."。
Now Paul, we saw last week, has already had his conversion experience,。
but Paul's not yet released yet to be a leader in the church,。
into the Greek and Roman Empire.。
Peter is the central leader at this time.。
And so Herod doubles down. He arrests Peter.。
Now it says here that he arrests him during the week。
of the festival of the unleavened bread.。
This is the same week that Jesus was arrested.。
It's the week of the celebration of the Passover.。
It's the week when they actually celebrated their release by Egypt。
from slavery by God's power into the promised land.。
It's a whole week that is to celebrate that God can liberate his people.。
And the irony of this story is Peter is arrested at the very week。
when they're celebrating liberation.。
Peter is incarcerated during the festival of liberation.。
And it's explained that way to help us to begin to kind of go,。
"Oh, that doesn't seem right.。
There's something odd going on in this story right here."。
And the final thing Luke introduces us to is how Peter is guarded.。
He's not just guarded by one guard outside behind some locked doors.。
He is actually chained by two guards.。
So two guards are literally chained to his ankles.。
And then there are two other guards that are outside.。
And these four guards rotate all the time so that there is 24-hour surveillance of Peter.。
They do this because they believe that he's a flight risk,。
that he's going to try to escape, which is ironic because that's about to happen, right?。
But in this moment, they're like, "We're not sure if he's going to stick around.。
So we're going to make sure he does by chaining him literally to these guards。
and setting this all up."。
So everything is designed in the story right here for you to lean into it and go,。
"What's going to happen next?。
Is there any hope at all for Peter?"。
Verse 5 says this,。
"So Peter was kept in prison, but the church was earnestly praying to God for him."。
I love this. Luke says you need to understand that there was hope in this situation.。
That although Peter was in prison, the church was gathered praying for him.。
The church was gathered praying for him, believing that their prayers mattered,。
believing that prayer could change Peter's situation.。
Although he might be incarcerated during the festival of liberation,。
but don't give up hope.。
The church is alive. The church is on its knees.。
The church is praying for him.。
And there's this exciting sense that the church is doing that.。
You need to know that there's power in a gathered church praying,。
and that's exactly what we're going to do on Tuesday evening at 7.30.。
I know, I know. None of you were planning to be there,。
but this is important. 7.30 in this room or online,。
when a church prays, something changes in the atmosphere.。
God does something. He listens to the cries of his people.。
When his church is on its knees pleading, God responds.。
Luke describes it as a church earnestly praying for Peter.。
The word "earnestly" there is the exact same word that Luke uses for Jesus。
when he's praying in the Garden of Gethsemane.。
Remember that moment where Jesus is crying out,。
"Lord, if there's any other way, take the cross from me,。
but your will be done, not my will."。
And he's so anxious that he's literally sweating blood.。
Luke takes that same word and he says,。
"That's what it was like for this church.。
They were gathered on their knees."。
The word in Greek means to stretch forth.。
They were stretching forth like Jesus was,。
and they were probably praying,。
"God, release Peter from prison. Release him from the chains,。
but not our will, but your will be done.。
But if there's any way for him to be released,。
would you bring him back to us? Release him.。
We don't want him to die." They're stretching out.。
Here's the other crazy thing.。
The festival of unliving bread lasted for seven days,。
and Herod could not do a trial until the whole thing was finished.。
So for seven days, the church is crying out.。
Can you see a church of faith crying out,。
believing that they could change the scenario of Peter's life。
by stretching forth like in the Garden of Gethsemane?。
Oh, man, does our city need a few churches like that?。
I wonder whether we might rise up in this time。
of Hong Kong's great need,。
in this time of such change in our city,。
that we would be willing to get our knees dirty,。
stretch forth, and really pray 7.30 on Tuesday night.。
That's the last time I'm mentioning it, okay?。
But I look forward to seeing everybody there.。
Does the prayer make a difference? Let's have a look.。
This whole sermon is not a plug for Tuesday night, I promise.。
Verse 6 onwards.。
"The night before Herod was to bring him to trial,。
Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains,。
and centuries stood guard at the entrance.。
Suddenly an angel of the Lord appeared, and a light shone in the cell.。
He struck Peter on the side and woke him up.。
'Quickly, get up,' he said, and the chains fell off Peter's wrists."。
I love this moment. Oh, my goodness, this is so good.。
Can you imagine if you were this angel?。
This is your moment.。
Like you've been an angel all your life.。
Like you've always wanted to be used by God。
for a powerful encounter in the world.。
And God has come and tapped you on the shoulder.。
Let's call him Angel Bob.。
God's come and tapped him on the shoulder and said,。
'Angel Bob, this is your moment.。
I'm sending you down into a jail cell where Peter is,。
and you're going to show up, and light's going to shine all around,。
and it's going to be this magic moment,。
and you're going to release Peter from prison.'。
And you can imagine this angel, 'Wow, this is the best moment of my life.'。
And Luke says, 'Peter's sleeping, like passed out.。
Like not just sleeping, sleeping so much that when the angel shows up,。
he has to strike him on his side to wake him up.'。
This is the night before Peter should have gone to trial.。
The night before he's being sentenced to death,。
Peter's just like, 'I don't know about you,。
but I would be pacing around praying or doing something.'。
Put yourself in the--I don't know if angels wore sandals--。
put yourself in the sandals of this angel for a moment.。
Imagine this. He's getting ready, right?。
And this is the moment. There's Peter.。
He's like, 'Ahhhh!'。
You know, like suddenly showing up, right?。
Peter's like, 'Ahhhh!'。
The angel's like, 'Well, that didn't quite go to plan.。
All right, I'm going to turn it up to 11 on the notch here.。
We're going to do this again. Ahhh!'。
The light flashes around, and he's completely oblivious to it.。
And so the angel goes up to him and said,。
'Hey, come on, let's go. Hey, you, don't wake the guards.。
Come on, you. Yes, you.。
Wait, why are you not waking? You're not--'。
And he kicks him in the stomach.。
Literally, the Greek word means.。
He strikes him in the stomach.。
You can imagine Peter going like, 'Ooooh!' like this.。
Suddenly waking out of his deep sleep and seeing an angel.。
It's described here that he thinks he's seeing a vision.。
He doesn't really know that this is happening in reality,。
but the chains fall off his wrist.。
Notice what happens next.。
Verse 8 onwards.。
'Then the angel said to him, "Put on your clothes and your sandals."。
And Peter did so.。
"Wrap your cloak around you and follow me."。
And the angel told him.。
So Peter followed him out of the prison,。
but he had no idea what the angel was doing was really happening.。
He thought he was seeing a vision.。
'They passed the first and the second guards。
and then came to the iron gate leading to the city.。
It opened for them by itself and they went through it.。
When they had walked the length of one street,。
suddenly the angel left him.'。
Don't know how that happened, but the angel just left.。
'Then Peter came to himself in that moment and said,。
"Now I know without a doubt that the Lord sent his angel。
and rescued me from Herod's clutches。
and from everything the Jewish people were anticipating."'。
The angel leads him past one set of guards,。
past the second set of guards,。
and then they come to this thing called the iron gate.。
Now the iron gate was really important.。
This is the main prison in Jerusalem.。
The iron gate was a big, heavy, solid gate。
that had one purpose in mind.。
That was to keep the people who were in prison, in prison,。
and keep the people who were in the city out of the prison.。
It was the gateway between those that were incarcerated。
to the freedom that was seen in the city.。
This has significant metaphorical punch to the story, this iron gate.。
And this iron gate, as Peter gets to it, opens up by itself,。
miraculously by itself, so that Peter can walk straight through it.。
And when he gets one length of a street, the angel disappears。
and he has this 'aha' moment.。
He's like, 'Wow, this really just did happen.'。
And Peter says these incredible words.。
He says, 'I know now that God has sent an angel。
to deliver me from Herod's clutches.'。
The word 'clutches' there is a word that's found predominantly。
in the Exodus narrative, where God releases by the Passover,。
Israel to be able to get out from Egypt's slavery.。
It's the word that was used a lot during the festival of unleavened bread.。
And Peter makes the connection in his freedom.。
He's like, 'I've experienced liberation.。
I've experienced a new Exodus.。
I am now out of the clutches of Herod, and I am free.'。
I think for Peter, the opening of the iron gate was his Red Sea parting moment.。
That moment in the Exodus story where the sea parted,。
so they could get through and get away and go to safety.。
So the iron gate opening by itself was like the waters of the Red Sea passing,。
and now Peter is free.。
And he's standing on the street, and he's like, 'I'm free!'。
But then something dawns on him.。
He might be out of prison, but he's not yet out of danger.。
And he knows that probably at any moment now, the guards are going to wake up.。
The guards are going to work out what's happened.。
Any moment now, they're going to start running after him.。
And he suddenly starts to panic, and he thinks, 'Well, what do I do?。
Where do I go? Where is safe for me? Where do I move to safety?'。
And he decides, 'Oh, there's that church, isn't there, that meets in Mary's house.'。
He's got no idea that they're meeting, they're praying for him,。
but he decides he's going to go to Mary's house, because that's a safe place.。
I want you to see what happens next in the story.。
Verse 12, "When this all dawned on him, he went to the house of Mary,。
the mother of John, also called Mark, where many people had gathered and were praying."。
This is where our small hinge comes into the story.。
"Peter knocked at the outer entrance, and a servant girl named Rhoda came to answer the door.。
When she recognized Peter's voice, she was so overjoyed that she ran back in without opening it,。
and exclaimed, 'Peter's at the door!'"。
Oh my goodness.。
Let me tell you a little bit about the small hinge called Rhoda.。
Rhoda is a Greek name.。
We don't know much about her in this story, but her name is Greek.。
It actually in the Greek means rose.。
So perhaps she was a young girl.。
Perhaps she was kind of fragile and sort of peaceful like a rose.。
What we do know about her is her profession.。
She's described by Luke here as a servant girl in Mary's house.。
Mary was wealthy, had the largest home in Jerusalem, which is why they gathered there.。
Scholars believe that the home of Mary was where the Pentecost actually happened,。
where the Holy Spirit had fallen when they were gathered in the upper room.。
That's this very house.。
And in the narrative here, this woman is a servant girl of that house.。
In other words, this is a first century domestic worker.。
Her duties and her job was to look after the house, was to clean it,。
was to prepare the food for the people that lived there,。
was to host the guests when they came in.。
That was who Rhoda is.。
If you're sitting in this room and you're a domestic worker,。
I hope this really encourages you.。
This is the Bible story where a domestic worker is the hero of the story.。
I hope that deeply encourages you.。
If you're a domestic worker in this room, Rhoda is just like you.。
And because she's a servant girl in this house, her very job,。
the nature of that job meant that she had the ability to move。
between the outer courts of the house and the inner sanctum of the house.。
And here's the great thing.。
There's a church that's meeting in the inner sanctum and they're praying.。
And what are they praying for?。
They're praying for Peter to be released from prison.。
And they're stretching forth, they're sweating blood,。
they're doing the whole thing, they've been doing it for days.。
And because they've been doing it for days,。
Rhoda, as a good servant girl, has heard their prayers.。
She knows what they're praying for.。
And in her duties, she's going around and she's on the outer courts。
and suddenly she hears the door knocking.。
She can hear it knocking because she's not so caught up。
in the inner sanctum of the religious activity.。
I bet there was so much noise going on there。
that no one was going to hear the outside door.。
Rhoda's in the right position.。
She hears the outside door, she goes towards it,。
and she recognizes Peter's voice.。
Well, of course she did.。
Because she'd been around that house for ages and Peter had been there。
and Pentecost had happened there.。
And she knew Peter and she knew his voice.。
She hears his voice and suddenly she freaks out.。
She's so excited.。
She's so excited because she realizes that what they're praying for。
in that room has actually happened.。
That it's now standing here at the door.。
See, Rhoda is the one in the story who's able to connect。
what is happening in the prayer meeting。
to what is actually happening in the real world.。
It's Rhoda who does that. No one else.。
She's uniquely positioned to be between the two worlds。
and connect them together.。
And she's so excited about it, she's suddenly in a dilemma.。
What do I do? Do I open the door and let him in?。
Or do I tell them that he's there? Do I open?。
No, I've got to tell them.。
And she runs back into the prayer meeting.。
And she says, "Guys, you can stop praying.。
The answer to the prayer is at the door. Woo-hoo!"。
Everybody that's praying in the prayer meeting are like,。
"Whoa, whoa, just can you quiet down? Please, we're praying here.。
This is really important right now.。
We're praying for something very important.。
We're praying for Peter's release."。
She's like, "Do you realize that Peter's actually at the door?。
He's at the door."。
And they just keep praying.。
And she keeps saying that he's at the door.。
And during that whole time, Peter's still at the door.。
He's still outside, in danger of being arrested again.。
He's not yet in safety.。
And he can't get into the house.。
Think about this for a second.。
This is the great irony of this story.。
It was actually much easier for Peter to get out of the doors of a prison。
than it was for him to get into the doors of a church.。
Now that should say something to us.。
That should sober us.。
It should challenge us.。
Are we a church that makes entry difficult?。
Is it easier for God to liberate people in the world。
and harder for Him to actually get them to attend church?。
In our season of evangelism and discipleship here in 2022 at the Vine,。
are we in danger of having closed doors, if you will?。
Not physically per se in the building, but specifically in the body of Christ?。
Do we close the doors of our hearts to certain groups of people。
that we think don't deserve to become Christians?。
Do we close our mind to the idea that certain types of people could become Christians?。
Do we shut the metaphorical doors of the body of Christ。
and make it more difficult for people to come and find fellowship and community here。
than it is for them to find grace in Christ Jesus?。
And I think if that is the case, we have to ask ourselves some pretty sobering questions.。
Have we put any barriers?。
Is there, let me put it this way, an iron gate,。
not just stopping the prison from the city,。
but stopping the city from the church and the church from the city?。
And if so, maybe we need to do something about it.。
Rhoda is pleading with the church to be aware that their prayer has answered.。
Let me show you what happens next in the story.。
It says this. It says, "You are out of your mind," they told her.。
When she kept insisting that it was so, they said, "Well, it must be his angel then."。
"You're out of your mind," they're saying. "Would you just quiet down, woman? We're praying here."。
Like, this is important church business. There's lots of church stuff happening here.。
This is religious activity. Just relax, okay?。
"You're out of your mind. You're stupid. You haven't worked it out. You're just a servant, girl."。
"You don't have it all together. You're not a leader here. You haven't discerned it properly."。
"Leave us alone," is basically what they're saying to her.。
I wonder if any of you in this room have felt that from church leadership at some point in your life.。
Whether, if I'm honest, leadership here at the Vine,。
or leadership perhaps in other churches you've attended.。
Have you ever felt shut down by leadership?。
Have you ever felt like you're not valuable to them?。
Ever felt like you don't have a voice?。
That you're not as spiritual, you don't discern as well?。
That you just stay over there and let us religious people do our religious things?。
I wonder if you've ever felt that way in your family.。
Perhaps some of you in this room are the only Christians in your family.。
Have you ever felt ashamed?。
Have you ever felt like your family have said, "You're out of your mind that you believe that."。
I wonder if anyone in here feels like that in the workplace.。
Maybe your colleagues know that you're a Christian and they think that's a bit strange and a bit unusual.。
And they say, "Who are you? You're out of your mind."。
But Rhoda doesn't give up.。
And I want you to know that you are not to give up.。
She keeps pleading with the church, "Hey, he's there, he's there."。
So eventually they go, "Well, it must be his ghost because it can't physically be him."。
"It can't really be the answer to our prayer. It can't really be that."。
So maybe Herod killed him early and his angel has shown up at the door, banging on the door.。
That's what they think.。
And so they actually go, notice this in the next verse.。
"But Peter kept on knocking, and when they opened the door and saw him, they were astonished."。
"Peter motioned with his hands to them to be quiet and describe how the Lord had brought him out of the prison."。
"Tell James and the brothers about this."。
And then he left for another place.。
They finally go with Rhoda to the outer course of the thing.。
They open the door and Peter is there.。
And the Bible says they're astonished.。
What are they astonished about?。
They're astonished that the thing that they were praying about has actually come to be.。
They're like, "Whoa, we were praying, but we didn't really think it was going to happen."。
"We were excited, but we didn't really think it was going to happen."。
But it's actually happened. They're astonished.。
And who is the one who is able to help them to see that the very thing that they were praying for has happened?。
It's not the church leadership.。
It's not the amazingly powerful spiritual people.。
Consider the people that were praying.。
These were most of the 12 were in that room.。
This is James, the brother of Jesus was in that room.。
This was the significant senior leadership of the church.。
None of them actually believed the prayer was going to take place.。
The person who believed, who was positioned to know,。
who had the flexibility to understand what was happening in the house,。
and also see what was happening in the world, was not church leadership.。
It was Rhoda.。
And this story teaches us something.。
Not only is it a story where a domestic worker is the hero,。
it's also a story where the church, the pastors, are wrong.。
You should clap for that. That's a good thing for you.。
That should excite you.。
The church leadership, the pastors, were wrong.。
They're not the heroes here.。
And this sets up and changes something dramatically for the whole concept of what church is about.。
That it's actually not about the leaders.。
It's not about the pastors.。
They are there to serve you, love you.。
I love my job. What a privilege it is to be a pastor.。
But church is not about me. It's not about my team.。
It's about you.。
You're the hero of the church story.。
You're Rhoda.。
Because you are the ones whose one foot is in the world and one foot is in church.。
And you can translate between the two of those things.。
You are the ones who are uniquely positioned to take the gospel from here and bring it into the world。
and take what God is doing in the world and communicate it to us in here.。
My job is to 100% serve you, love you, help you to be the best that you can be,。
teach you, pray for you, love you.。
That's my job.。
My feet are in the church and I'm glad that God's given me that calling.。
Your calling though is to be like Rhoda who can move between the two spheres。
and be able to translate the gospel into the world.。
That's who you are.。
And what we learn in this story is something very sobering.。
It's often easier for a miracle to happen than it is for it to be believed.。
The actual miracle of this miracle is the fact that it was believed.。
And why was it believed?。
Because Rhoda changed everything.。
Because I want you to see this.。
Before this moment, the church was praying earnestly, reaching forth,。
but they didn't really believe that it was going to happen.。
But I tell you what, from this moment forward, the early church was dramatically changed.。
From this moment forward, I bet you everybody who was in that room that day praying。
and everybody who saw Peter come in that door, freed by the power of Jesus,。
that that faith level of that church completely changed.。
I bet you every single time they prayed after that, they actually believed that it was going to happen.。
That at that time, everything changed.。
And who changed it? The church leadership? No.。
Rhoda.。
Somebody that history tends to forget completely changed the church.。
Completely gave you your story.。
If you're a Christian in this room, and if you haven't been called to be a part of the staff of the church,。
then you're in full-time ministry like Rhoda was.。
With one foot in the camp of the church, one foot in the world,。
and uniquely positioned to do what I could never do.。
Translate between the two of those things and bring a testimony of the power of God in both of them.。
And I feel like if God's going to do anything in us in this season,。
in this important hour that we're in in Hong Kong and its history,。
we need to be Ananiases, laying hands on one another,。
speaking truth to each other, praying for each other,。
believing the best for each other, raising each other up.。
And we need to be Rhodas, planted in our schools, planted in our workplaces,。
planted in our families, able to say, "I'm proud to be here as well as I'm proud to be in the kingdom."。
And that there is no distinction between secular and sacred,。
that all of us together are a part of the kingdom of God.。
And my work has as much value and as much power as anything else,。
and I straddled it too, and what a gift it is, because this is what church is all about.。
You're a Rhoda, a servant in God's kingdom.。
May you firmly plant a foot so that you can always open doors。
for those on the outside to come into church.。
And may you always run into the religious activity。
and have the courage to speak what's happening in the world to the church.。
And when that takes place, I believe the body of Christ is truly equipped to be what it should be.。
It won't be equipped by me and the other pastors here.。
It will only be equipped as the Rhodas are released.。
Run with that anointing. Plant your feet proudly where you are.。
Whatever job it is, whatever career you have, whatever spirit of influence you're planted in,。
you are there for a reason. Embrace it, love it, and see God's glory come out of it.。
For His glory. In Jesus' name.。
Everyone says? Amen.。
Would you stand with me? I want to pray for you.。
Father, I just want to thank you so much for all the Rhodas in this room.。
Father, we first of all think of our actual Rhodas, the domestic workers in this room.。
Our Filipino brothers and sisters, Indonesian brothers and sisters that we love dearly.。
Father, we want to pray for them in this moment.。
Father, we ask that you would strengthen them and encourage them.。
So often their job is a thankless task.。
So often they're treated a little bit like how Rhodas are treated in this story.。
Father, we just pray for an anointing and a power upon them.。
We pray that they would be deeply encouraged by the hero that is Rhoda today.。
And that would inspire them in all the places that you've planted them,。
the homes of Hong Kong that you have planted them in, Lord.。
Many of those homes perhaps don't believe in you.。
We pray that you would use these incredible domestic workers。
to represent your hands and feet to the people that they are planted within.。
And Father, we pray for all of us.。
Each one of us a Rhoda in our own ways.。
School teachers in this room, lawyers, policemen, politicians,。
people in marketing and backgrounds there, media,。
people in the entertainment world,。
so many different industries represented of course across our services.。
And Father, each one of them has been called by you to be like Rhoda,。
to be able to connect the world and the church and see them come together,。
to help the church not be a holy huddle that just forgets everything that's happening in the world。
and likely enables the kingdom of God to be glorified and testified in the world.。
And so Father, I want to pray for a release over these men and women.。
I want to ask that you would fill them with inspiration and passion.。
We thank you for Rhoda's story and how it's so much a part of ours now.。
And Lord, would you forgive us where we do look at some things as sacred and some things as secular,。
where we haven't recognized that this world is yours,。
that in your death and resurrection you brought everything under your feet,。
that Paul would say we get to now pray to the name that is above every name,。
and that Lord Hong Kong is yours, China is yours.。
And Father, we just are so grateful that we have a King and Kings and a Lord of Lords。
who is in control.。
Father, I pray that you'd fill the church of this city with Rhoda's,。
connected to your kingdom, seeing that kingdom in all places.。
And Father, if there's anyone here that feels devalued,。
anyone here who feels like either the church or others have said, "You're out of your mind."。
Lord, would you forgive us?。
Lord, we pray that you would release us to be your hands and feet in every place that you put us.。
And we thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, "Amen."。
Amen. Let's worship now together.。
(music)。
