The Father says to you this morning,。
"You are my child whom I love.。
"With you I'm well pleased.。
"You are my child whom I love.。
"With you I am so pleased."。
I feel like for some of us in this room,。
there's a counter thought,。
perhaps a counter narrative。
that the enemy has placed upon you.。
You're not worthy to be a child of God.。
Have you looked at your life lately?。
Have you looked at your choices?。
Have you looked at your sin?。
He doesn't want you.。
He doesn't wanna be around you.。
You're not deserving of his forgiveness.。
You're a terrible person, unworthy of love.。
I wanna come against that alternative narrative now。
in the name of Jesus.。
I wanna pour the blood of Jesus over anyone in this room。
who is coming today with a narrative。
that is not from the Lord, but from the enemy.。
And while sin might be a reality for us,。
we are never cut off from a restored relationship with Christ。
through the forgiveness of sin.。
Your own worthiness is never enough。
to bring you into the presence of Jesus.。
He chooses to step into your presence.。
He chooses through the blood of Jesus shed on the cross。
and the resurrection of Christ for you.。
He chooses to step into your world。
and meet you in your brokenness, in your hurt,。
and in your harm, and in all the alternative narratives。
that are spoken over you.。
And he says, because of the blood of Jesus, you are worthy.。
I love you.。
You are my child whom I love.。
With you I am well pleased and may never a word。
or never a voice say anything other to you.。
You are my child.。
You're mine, my beloved.。
Father, I pray for the freedom that comes.。
Through the wonder of the grace of Christ Jesus。
and the indwelling person of the Holy Spirit.。
And Father, as we open up your word here today,。
I wanna pray that love for anyone。
who's got those alternative narratives。
around their minds and their hearts,。
that as we open scripture today,。
as we unpack the beauty of the Spirit of the Lord,。
I wanna pray for that greater freedom.。
I believe some of you in this room are gonna be released。
over the next 30 minutes or so.。
Honestly, release.。
(congregation applauding)。
Some of you in this room, it's been years,。
years of habitual brokenness in a certain area of your life.。
We believe Exodus is the primary work of the Spirit of God.。
And we pray for freedom like never before.。
And we pray this in Jesus.。
Everyone says.。
(congregation applauding)。
Amen, amen.。
Have a seat, have a seat.。
So right at the beginning of this year,。
in the very first devotional that we sent you。
as part of the fast that we did。
right at the start of this year,。
I said in that devotional,。
I wrote one of my dreams for this year.。
And I said one of my primary dreams for this year。
is that the Vine would experience an even greater。
manifestation and ministry of the Holy Spirit.。
And this has become something that we're longing for.。
And as a leadership, we've been praying for deeply。
here at the Vine is that each one of us。
would experience a greater measure this year。
of the ministry of the Holy Spirit.。
If you look throughout history,。
at ever the time when God calls a community of people,。
a church or a group of people。
into a time of uncharted waters,。
which is what we've been saying God is doing。
here at the Vine in 2025,。
when he calls people into uncharted waters,。
what he's specifically doing is he's taking us。
out of our comfort zones.。
He's placing us in a scenario and a situation。
where we have no roadmap, no strategy,。
no ability to be able to predict what's gonna happen.。
It's literally uncharted waters.。
In that environment throughout history,。
whenever God does that in his people,。
he always brings, and there is always a need。
for a heightened sensitivity to the work。
and the power of the Holy Spirit.。
Because when we're in a place of out of our comfort zone,。
we're no longer relying on our own strength.。
We realize that we cannot, just like that word,。
breathe in me 'cause I can't take breath。
unless you're involved.。
We realize I cannot sort this out,。
I can't navigate the future。
unless your spirit reveals itself.。
And so in these seasons, it is a season to lean in。
to the work and the ministry of the Holy Spirit。
like never before.。
And one of my great joys, if I look back。
over all the Sundays that have happened。
over the last beginning of this year to now,。
I can testify that we've been seeing this.。
We've been seeing this increase of the ministry。
of the Holy Spirit amongst us.。
And it's been profoundly beautiful in these gatherings,。
but actually what the Holy Spirit is doing amongst us。
is even greater outside of what's just taking place。
in these 90 minutes on a Sunday.。
We've been hearing testimonies of so many of you。
in your own individual journey with the Spirit。
and what the Holy Spirit is doing for you personally.。
We've been hearing about marriages。
that have been transformed.。
We've been hearing about broken relationships。
within families getting reconciled.。
We've seen physical healings take place this year。
as people have prayed for people。
and they've received an immediate physical healing。
for something that was ailing them.。
And perhaps most profound of all,。
and always the most profound work。
that the Holy Spirit ever does,。
last Sunday, where we were celebrating。
the death and resurrection of Jesus,。
we baptized 28 people down in Repulse Bay。
into the waters of baptism,。
coming out of the waters of baptism into new life.。
The most significant work of the Holy Spirit。
to bring people into a renewed relationship with Jesus.。
Amen.。
And I believe that what we're seeing。
and what the Spirit is doing is just the tip of the iceberg.。
It's just the first fruits of what He wants us。
to lean into for the rest of the year.。
And I believe that there's gonna be an increase each week,。
an increase amongst us corporately,。
an increase amongst us individually。
of the manifest ministry of the Holy Spirit in our church.。
And I'm so glad that I'm the only person excited about that.。
(congregation laughing)。
Come on, church.。
(congregation applauding)。
I honestly believe this.。
Let me say this.。
I honestly believe this.。
I believe that the greatest manifestations。
of the Holy Spirit on earth are not behind us,。
they're ahead of us.。
(laughing)。
Now, I'm not just saying that for claps, okay?。
I genuinely, honestly believe that.。
And here's why.。
I think as Christians, we can have this funny thing.。
As Christians, we can kind of open the page of the Bible。
and we can see the work the Spirit does in Scripture.。
And we can see what happens in the life。
of the ministry of Jesus.。
And we see all these incredible things.。
And it's almost like our primary posture。
with the Holy Spirit is one of nostalgia.。
It's like, wow, look at that.。
Oh, I wish I had been there in the first century.。
I wish I had been there。
when the Spirit was so at work in the world.。
Like, I wish I had been there。
when Jesus and Peter walked on water.。
I wish I had been there when Jesus raised the child。
from death to life in the village of Nain.。
I wish I had been there when handkerchiefs。
were just in the presence of Paul。
and they were taken and laid on sick people。
and they got well.。
Man, if only I could have ever been in the time。
where the Spirit is at work.。
And we can have this posture, right,。
with the Holy Spirit of nostalgia.。
Like that the greatest moments of the manifestation。
of the Spirit on earth are in the rear view mirror.。
That they've kind of happened in some time in the past.。
Let me just break that myth with you right up front here.。
The scriptures do not teach that the greatest moments。
of the Spirit are behind us.。
In fact, Paul, writing to the church,。
trying to help them to build an expectation。
of what God's gonna do in their midst, he writes this.。
He says the same Spirit that raised Jesus from the dead.。
Just pause there.。
The greatest moments ever of the Holy Spirit。
at work in this world is the resurrection of Jesus Christ.。
Because that's the moment where sin is defeated。
and reconciled relationship with God comes.。
Never been a greater moment of the work of the Spirit。
in the world than the moment of the resurrection of Jesus.。
And Paul says to the church, that same Spirit。
that did the greatest thing that none of us。
could ever achieve, he goes, that Spirit now lives in you.。
He's like almost saying to the church,。
like get your head around this.。
Like before Jesus' death on the cross,。
the Spirit was at work in the world.。
The Spirit was externally manifesting itself beautifully。
in the moment of the cross and the resurrection.。
He says, but it's no longer just out there in the world.。
He said, now that Spirit lives in you.。
It's like Paul is saying, don't you realize。
that everything changes now, that the indwelling power。
that raised Jesus from the dead can now raise you。
from the things that are dead in your life,。
from the things that are broken in you。
can now be manifested new life.。
The things that you've never welcomed,。
the sovereignty of the Lord can change in an instant。
'cause he raised a man from dead to life.。
Imagine what he can do in your soul.。
Imagine what he could do in your heart,。
he's saying to his church.。
He's like, raise your expectation.。
Jesus taught the same thing, didn't he?。
When he promises the Holy Spirit to the disciples。
in his resurrection, he says these beautiful things.。
He says, you're gonna be able to do。
even greater things than I did.。
This is not a theology that the best is in the past.。
This is a theology of expectation in the church。
to begin to lean forward in the hope and the belief。
and the expectation that God is gonna do。
even greater things.。
And so I wanna say this right over you here this morning.。
The greatest work of the Holy Spirit。
is not in your rear view mirror.。
Some of you in this room, that's what you feel.。
You're like, man, I don't know if I would ever get back。
to that relationship I had with Jesus five years ago.。
Some of you are like, man, I don't know。
if God's ever gonna manifest himself。
like I remember in my youth.。
Let me say this to you.。
The greatest relationship with the Holy Spirit。
is ahead of you, not behind you.。
Oh my God, I'm so excited.。
Now this is the reason, this is the reason。
why we're doing a seven-part series on the Holy Spirit。
starting today over the next seven weeks。
because I think it's so easy for us。
in a season of uncharted where we need to rely more。
on the Holy Spirit, it's so easy for us。
to have just one way of thinking about the Holy Spirit,。
like boxed in, if you will, to a certain way。
that we've always thought about the Holy Spirit。
and kind of summarize or think that all of the Spirit's work。
is just this one thing that we understand。
when actually the Scriptures provide。
a very broad perspective on what the Holy Spirit does。
in this world.。
And the reality is we can get so wrapped up。
in just the one thing because that's perhaps。
the one thing we've experienced.。
When it comes to the Spirit of God in our lives,。
we're so experiential as Christians.。
And maybe the Holy Spirit's manifested itself。
in a certain way in your life in the past。
and that's become the primary way。
that you think of the Spirit and that's blinding you,。
perhaps, to some of the other ways the Spirit works。
that God wants you actually to be awoken to。
so that you can see the totality。
of what the Spirit is doing in your life.。
Does that make sense?。
But we're so logged in, I think,。
to how we've come to experience Him in the past.。
I remember the first time I encountered the Holy Spirit.。
I was four years old.。
My parents at the time were involved。
in a very charismatic church in the south of England,。
like super charismatic, the kind of church。
where you walk in and you're like, what is going on?。
And on this particular day, my father responds。
to the word that was preached towards the end。
of the service and he responds and he goes forward。
for prayer and I remember as a four year old。
seeing the pastor and the pastor leans forward。
and just gently places his hand on my father's forehead.。
My father starts to shake and then he collapses。
and he's as still as possible on the ground.。
Now as a four year old, here's how I interpreted。
that moment, the pastor has killed my father.。
[audience laughing]。
Like that's what I thought, the pastor has killed my father.。
I start screaming and crying and like I'm throwing。
attention 'cause I think my father's dead.。
My mom, here's this kid screaming, she runs over,。
she sees it's her son, she picks me up in her arms,。
she's like, what's going on, Andrew, what's going on?。
I'm like, the pastor's killed my father!。
And here's what she says, she says, oh no, no, no, no,。
no, no, no, dad's not dead, your father's not dead,。
no, no, no, God's just speaking to him.。
And here's what I thought as a four year old.。
If that's how God speaks to people, I hope he never。
speaks to me for the rest of my life.。
[audience laughing]。
You know what I'm saying?。
But these dramatic moments of the Holy Spirit。
become so central and in that moment shapes so much。
of my theology, my thinking about the Holy Spirit。
and we can so hang on to the dramatic things。
that we see in the Spirit or read about in the Spirit。
or maybe have experienced ourselves and we actually。
don't allow ourselves to understand that the Spirit。
is so much more than just the magnificent and the dramatic。
that so often the work of the Spirit is imperceptible.。
So often the work of the Spirit is actually happening。
within rather than externally.。
So often the Spirit is doing more at chipping away。
my character and the things that are broken within me。
than perhaps he is miraculously healing somebody。
all of a sudden.。
And yet we can get so caught up that we think,。
oh man, I wish it was back like the day of Acts。
because we're looking for the dramatic all the time。
when God is like, don't you realize that my Spirit。
is doing more on earth today than it's ever done before?。
Don't you realize that people are changing。
and being transformed and being renewed like never before?。
And so I wanted to just say that this has been my journey.。
Like I have experienced the dramatic in my life.。
I remember a time when I was in the Philippines。
and a 14-year-old girl from our youth group。
prayed for this blind guy and he received sight。
right then and there before my own eyes, nuts.。
I remember a time when my wife had a pain。
in the side of her rib cage and she'd had that pain。
for a long time and we were praying about it。
and I saw a picture of like a dagger。
in the side of her rib cage and I didn't know what to do。
and Chris was like, well just pull the dagger out.。
And I'm like, weird, okay.。
And I just kind of like went to the place。
where I thought the dagger was, pulled it out。
and she was miraculously healed,。
never had that pain ever again.。
I remember a time where I was, this is crazy,。
where I spoke in another human language,。
one that I did not know because of the anointing。
of the Holy Spirit.。
Crazy story, I'll save that for another week.。
I've experienced these dramatic experiences。
with the Holy Spirit but let me tell you this,。
after 30 years of being a Christian。
and 30 years of a relationship with the Holy Spirit,。
here's what's the most dramatic that has happened to me,。
the things that you perhaps would never know.。
The fact that I can stand before you now 30 years later。
and say I'm more patient than I've ever been.。
The fact that I know that I have more self-control。
over my temptations today than I did when I was in my 20s.。
The fact that I can recognize that I've actually。
been strengthened in a way within me。
that I can withstand some of the criticism。
and feedback and stuff that happens。
when you have a public role like this。
in a reasonably large church in a big city.。
Like I know that there's things that the Spirit。
has done in me that is far greater。
than some of those manifestations that we said.。
Not that they're bad and here's the point.。
So often in our understanding of the Spirit,。
we choose one or the other.。
Like we're either like, we're charismatic。
and everything's great and we wanna see the miracles。
and pray for a Bible or we're not sure。
if that happens anymore.。
We're people who like to study the Bible.。
Right, and we have these dichotomies。
between like it's either this or it's that.。
Here's what the Scripture teaches.。
It's not a choice between either or, it's a both and.。
That we are ones who should long for and see。
and experience the dramatic ways。
that the Spirit is at work in us,。
but we should also be expecting and leaning into。
those quiet, imperceptible changes of our character。
that happens within.。
And it's this both and that we wanna teach you。
over the next seven weeks.。
We wanna help you to wrestle with the reality。
that the Spirit is presented to us。
in a complex way in Scripture.。
For example, He works in a community,。
but He also works individually.。
Or maybe this, He brings comfort and peace to us,。
yet He also convicts and challenges us,。
which isn't very comfortable.。
Or like He opens the Scriptures to us。
so we can understand God's Word。
from 2,000 something years ago,。
but He also speaks a rema fresh Word。
that's relevant to the day.。
And this both and reality of Scripture。
is what we wanna open up to you over these seven weeks。
so that you, as you're in this season of unchartedness,。
can find yourself with a greater expectation。
of what the Spirit is about to do for us as a church,。
but also for you personally.。
Is that helpful?。
And I wanna start that process today。
by teaching you a bit.。
Oftentimes when I'm up here at front,。
I like to preach to you and tell funny stories。
and yada, yada, yada.。
Today I wanna teach.。
I wanna unpack a couple of really deep biblical things,。
theological things that I think will help you。
as we begin this process of journeying more。
with the Holy Spirit.。
And I wanna debunk a couple of myths about the Holy Spirit.。
And then I want to give you the primary purpose。
of what the Spirit of God is doing on earth,。
why it is that we have the Spirit of God.。
And because that primary purpose。
is what all the other both ands。
that we're gonna unpack throughout this series,。
they fit under.。
They serve the reality of this bigger thing。
that I wanna unpack for you today.。
Does that sound all right?。
All right, so let me debunk。
one of the most important myths straight away.。
The primary way that Scripture speaks about the Spirit。
is as a person, co-eternal and co-existent。
with the Father and the Son.。
That's the primary way that the Scriptures speak。
about the Holy Spirit, as a person,。
which is deeply challenging,。
because if you're anything like me,。
I think we Christians really struggle with this,。
'cause I think we can very easily have a concept。
that the Holy Spirit is largely like a life force。
or like some energy out there in the world.。
Star Wars has ruined it for all of us, okay?。
And we think that the Holy Spirit。
is a bit like the force in Star Wars.。
These are not the droids that you are looking for.。
Do you know what I mean?。
Like we can tap into some sort of life force。
or energy in the world to get superpowers,。
to do things that we couldn't do as normal humans,。
and that the energy and the life force,。
the Spirit is flowing out there somewhere,。
and we need to tap into it, access it for ourselves.。
Making sense?。
Now, the reason why we do this as Christians。
is because the Bible doesn't really help us。
with this sometimes, 'cause the Bible presents the Spirit。
in these kinds of ways at times.。
The metaphors of like wind and breath and fire and cloud。
and tongues of fire, all of these things describing。
who the person of the Holy Spirit is,。
and yet described in a language that kind of at times。
sort of strengthens our thought。
that the Holy Spirit is a force or energy in the world.。
But the most important thing you need to do。
right at the beginning of this series。
is to understand that actually the Holy Spirit。
is not floating out there, some esoteric kind of thing。
that's like an energy to tap into.。
The Holy Spirit is a person.。
And this is very important because when you begin。
to understand the Spirit of God as a person,。
it actually revolutionized how you actually come。
into relationship with the Holy Spirit,。
how you treat the Holy Spirit,。
how you expect the Holy Spirit to work in your life.。
If He's just some life force,。
you're constantly trying to tap into it.。
If He's a person, you should be submitting to it.。
Come on, church.。
Now, Paul, who's perhaps one of the great writers。
of the Spirit in the New Testament,。
Paul's theology of the Spirit is phenomenal.。
I just pulled out, I went through the scriptures this week,。
and just pulled out a bunch of the ways。
in which Paul speaks of the Spirit,。
and how the Spirit, what the Spirit does.。
So let me just show you this kind of slide here.。
He counsels us to know the mind of Christ,。
strengthens us in our weaknesses, intercedes on our behalf,。
teaches the gospel to us, leads us in the ways of God,。
grieved by our sinfulness,。
bearing witness with our own spirit.。
Take a look at this.。
These are not the things that you would describe。
to some life energy.。
These are the things you would describe。
to someone who's a person, who's able to teach,。
able to pray, able to have emotions,。
able to stand with us, grieving alongside of us.。
I mean, this is a person.。
This is describing the Spirit as a person.。
Does that make sense to you?。
Which is even more important when you begin。
to think of how Jesus predicted the coming。
of the promise of the Holy Spirit.。
Jesus in John 16, seven, He put it this way.。
Let me read this to you.。
He says, "I tell you the truth.。
"It is better for you that I go,。
"for if I do not go, the advocate, the Holy Spirit,。
"will not come to you.。
"But if I go, I will send him to you."。
Notice how Jesus describes the Holy Spirit as a person.。
He doesn't say, "I will send it to you."。
He doesn't say, "Tap into this flow of the universe。
"and you'll be great."。
He's not trying to teach some new age philosophy here.。
He's saying, "No, a person is going to come to you."。
Now, here, debunk myth number two.。
He describes Him here, which makes us think,。
okay, well then maybe the Spirit is like a masculine thing,。
but actually the Spirit is not got a gendered body.。
Does that make sense to you?。
So the Spirit itself encompasses all of human life.。
So it is both masculine and feminine.。
It holds both of those things in its fullness.。
So though Jesus uses a word here。
that probably just helped people to understand。
that a person is coming,。
I don't want you to get embedded into thinking。
that the Spirit is mostly masculine.。
Does that make sense?。
So there's this idea that Jesus says,。
look, it's right for you to have this experience。
with the person Spirit.。
He doesn't just say that.。
Notice what he says here.。
He says, "It's better for you."。
Get your head around this.。
He says, "It's better for you that I leave you。
"and send you the Holy Spirit."。
For Jesus, it was better for us。
to not have him in his bodily form,。
but to have the indwelling of the Spirit within us.。
I don't know about you,。
but that doesn't sound like a good deal.。
Like, wouldn't you rather have,。
like, imagine if Jesus was standing in his bodily form。
right here, right next to me, right now in Hong Kong.。
Revival would break out.。
Would you not think so?。
But Jesus says, "It's actually better.。
"It's actually better that I go。
"and that you experience the fullness。
"of what it's like to have one of the Godhead。
"living, dwelling inside of you,。
"turning your world inside out,。
"filling you with love and grace and power。
"and healing and mercy."。
Oh, he's saying, "It's so much better.。
"I am here in my human form.。
"I can only be here with you in this moment,。
"but when I go, one is gonna come。
"who's gonna be in all of you,。
"because greater are the things that you're going to do。
"and the spirit that is in you is the same spirit。
"that's gonna raise me from the dead," he says.。
Now, this is wonderful, and it's important。
that we shift our thinking away。
from the Star Wars force of the spirit。
to the person of the spirit for this primary reason.。
When you think of the Holy Spirit as a person,。
your immediate thought now is,。
how do I have a better relationship with this one?。
Person means communal relationship.。
Spirit means tap into something out there.。
Are you following this?。
Now, this is why when Paul writes to the church。
about the Trinity in one of the most beautiful times。
he does it in 2 Corinthians in 13, verse 14, he says this.。
He says, "The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ。
"and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit。
"be with you all."。
Isn't that a beautiful prayer for his church?。
But notice, he chooses one word to describe。
each member of the Trinity,。
and it's almost like Paul is going,。
"Okay, what's the best way I can describe each member?"。
He says, "Oh yeah, it's the grace of Jesus Christ."。
Well, of course.。
Grace is the perfect way to describe Jesus。
because it's his grace that we are saved。
by what he did on the cross, the forgiveness of our sin.。
He then says, "Well, it's love for the Father."。
Well, that makes sense 'cause the Father so loved the world。
that he sent his only son.。
When it comes to the spirit,。
notice the word he uses, fellowship.。
Like, he doesn't say like tap into, access,。
or just us to be filled with this kind of emotional feeling.。
No, he said, "I want you to have the Greek word koinonia,。
"communion, togetherness with the person of the Holy Spirit."。
Our fellowship, our relational connection。
comes to the person of the Holy Spirit.。
As that spirit is at work within us,。
we build that relationship with him,。
and this koinonia flows out of us towards one another.。
When he's saying the fellowship of the Holy Spirit,。
what he's actually saying is。
you have personal fellowship with him,。
but then you have communal fellowship with one another。
through the spirit, and you might have different backgrounds,。
different life stories, different cultures.。
You might have different traumas.。
You might be wrestling with different things.。
None of that matters because the spirit of God。
unifies us into togetherness.。
The relationship we have with God。
through the person of the Holy Spirit changes everything.。
Now, let me just summarize why this is an important shift。
in the way that we think, 'cause a lot of it comes down。
to how we're going to approach the Holy Spirit.。
So let me show you this slide here.。
On the left-hand side are the ways in which we would react。
if the spirit is predominantly a force。
or an energy to tap into.。
Our question then is how can I access the spirit more。
so I can use it?。
I don't know about you, but I can put my hand up。
and say I've thought about the spirit that way a lot。
in my Christian life.。
How do I access more of the spirit so I can use it?。
A better way of thinking about it。
when he's the person of the Holy Spirit,。
how can I get to know the Holy Spirit more。
so he can use me?。
Are you following this?。
It's a completely different way of being with the spirit.。
One is like I need to tap in to gain。
the other is I wanna know so that I can become。
the best version of myself that I can be.。
I wanna have a relationship so that everything can change.。
Or let me show you another one.。
So here's another one.。
How can I get a hold of the spirit more?。
Like I've gotta try to get a hold of the spirit。
or I've gotta ask to kind of receive more and more。
like we wanna kind of ask the spirit of God。
to do something for us.。
Notice on the other side when he's more of a person,。
how can the spirit get a hold of me more?。
What a profoundly different approach that is.。
Do you see why it's so important to shift our mindset。
about how we conceive of the Holy Spirit。
from this force and this energy towards a person, right?。
'Cause when he's a person, our primary posture,。
notice this, when he's not a person,。
our primary posture is control and access and use.。
Doesn't sound very godly, does it?。
But when we see him as a person,。
our primary posture is what we were praying earlier,。
submission, humility, worship.。
And so as we begin this shift。
in the way we think about the Holy Spirit,。
we begin a huge shift in how we encounter。
and how we submit and how we open our lives。
to the work of the spirit around us.。
Not a give me, give me, give me,。
but a make me, make me, make me.。
Now, are you tracking with us so far?。
Let me try that one more time.。
Are you tracking with us so far?。
Okay, I wanna now take it to a deeper level.。
Let's go down a notch now towards the bigger purpose。
of what the Holy Spirit is.。
He's a person to have relationship with。
so that we can shift from a give me to a make me,。
but why is that the case?。
What is it that the Holy Spirit。
is ultimately doing in our world?。
Well, to understand that, I wanna take you。
to a couple of passages of scripture.。
I hope this has been helpful for you so far,。
but this stuff's gonna really open up, I think,。
for you a bigger understanding of what the Spirit。
is going to do in us and in our world.。
The first time the Spirit is mentioned。
is in Genesis 1, verse two.。
Let me read you the first two verses of the Bible.。
In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.。
Now, the earth was formless and empty,。
and darkness was over the surface of the deep,。
and the Spirit of God, notice this,。
the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters.。
The very first time we're introduced to the Spirit。
is in the second verse of the Bible.。
First of all, we're introduced to the Father who creates,。
then we're introduced to the Spirit,。
and what we're told is that the world in that moment。
is this formless, dark void.。
Other translations would say there was chaos over the deep.。
Now, that would paint a pretty bleak picture。
right there at the beginning of the Bible,。
except for one thing.。
Actually, what this is presenting to us。
is a picture of hope, and the reason there's hope。
is because of the Spirit.。
Yes, the world was this dark, formless, chaotic void。
at the time, but it wasn't left alone.。
There's the Holy Spirit, and how is he pictured。
so poetically and beautifully?。
Hovering like a bird over creation,。
longing to wanna see creation take life.。
This hovering is a very unique Hebrew word.。
It's only mentioned one other time in Deuteronomy。
where it's spoken about an eagle hovering。
over the nest of its young,。
hoping that the young would take flight.。
That's the same concept here.。
A bird hovering over creation,。
longing for that creation to find its life,。
longing for that creation to come alive.。
Now, let me step back one second,。
because this is the primary thing。
that the Holy Spirit does.。
It brings things to life, but to understand that,。
you have to understand the Hebrew concept of life,。
which is different from how we in the West。
often think of life.。
In the Hebrew concept of life, it's not just。
about a heart beating and an ability to breathe.。
In other words, it's not just about like, I'm alive.。
The Hebrew concept of life was about the beating heart。
and the breathing, but it was also about fulfilling。
and becoming the greatest version of yourself。
that you can be, becoming fully as you were intended。
and created to be.。
This is the call of what the Hebrews meant。
by something having life, not just breathing,。
but actually being fully how they were intended。
and designed to be.。
So if I was gonna define the Hebrew definition of life,。
I would say this, having life is living to the best。
of our created intent.。
Some of you should write that down,。
because that's actually gonna shape so much of your future,。
just that one thought, living to the best。
of your created intent.。
In the Genesis narrative that we're looking at。
in this moment, this is the whole thing。
that the Spirit is at work doing,。
helping things go from a place of formlessness in creation。
to a place of not just being alive,。
but being just as they were always intended to be.。
In Genesis 1 and 2, this is described to us as shalom,。
as the idea of wholeness and completeness,。
the fullness of the way things should be.。
This is the definition of life.。
And the way that the Holy Spirit is involved。
in bringing life, giving life,。
is not just helping us to breathe,。
but moving us towards the ways of intention。
of the heart of God.。
And that progression, that movement,。
is the Spirit bringing us life.。
So if that's the case, think of it this way,。
the closer that you are to being the person。
you were always intended to be,。
the closer you are to being fully alive.。
Are you following this?。
The closer you are to being the person。
that you were always intended to be,。
the closer you are to being alive.。
This is the Hebrew concept.。
Is that all making sense to you?。
Okay, so then we take that concept back to this passage。
where the Holy Spirit is hovering over a lifeless creation。
and he longs to bring it to life.。
He longs to take what's formless。
and bring it into the fullness of this life.。
And he does it with creation itself,。
but then there's this pinnacle of creation,。
the creation of humanity.。
And I wanna show you what happens in that moment。
of the creation of humanity.。
This is Genesis 2, verse seven.。
"The Lord God formed the man," or formed humanity,。
"from the dust of the ground。
"and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life.。
"And the man," this was Adam in this moment,。
"becomes a living being."。
There's this beautiful moment.。
I want you to see what God does.。
He takes something that's formless,。
the dust on the ground,。
he shapes a form of man,。
and then he brings that into the fullness of a living being。
by the work of the Spirit.。
Does that make sense?。
So he breathes, that's one of the ways。
in which we come to think of and understand the Spirit.。
He breathes over this formed thing。
and brings it into the fullness。
of what it was always designed to be.。
This movement is a movement in Genesis 1 and 2。
from a work of disorder to a work of order.。
See, the Holy Spirit's primary purpose。
is to bring things to life.。
And the way that he does that。
is by taking things that are currently disordered。
and bringing them into order.。
You should take a photo of that slide.。
Because this shapes everything。
we're gonna do in the series ahead.。
This is the work of the Spirit,。
taking something that is disordered。
and moving it into this place of great order.。
This happens for creation,。
it happens for Adam.。
But then I want you to see what happens later in the story.。
Because later on in the story,。
of course we have sin that enters in chapter three.。
By the way, I want you to notice something.。
This is quite cool.。
The purpose of the Holy Spirit。
to bring things from disorder to order。
happens before the fall of humanity.。
In other words, his nature is not driven by sin,。
but by love.。
Oh, come on.。
Like before there was sin,。
the Spirit of God was already at work。
taking disorder to order.。
Taking things that were formless to form to fullness.。
Now sin heightens that work。
that the Spirit of God is going to do.。
And it heightens it。
because this is the very nature。
of the Spirit from the beginning.。
To out of love,。
wanna see things into their fullness。
just as they were created to be.。
This all culminates in our biblical story。
with the person of Jesus.。
And as Jesus steps into his role。
as a rabbi and a prophet and a teacher,。
and of course the Son of God,。
something significant happens in the narrative.。
Let me jump forward to Luke chapter three。
who provides a beautiful picture of this for us.。
Luke chapter three,。
this is the very beginning of Jesus。
stepping into his ministry.。
It happens at his baptism.。
Luke three starting verse 21.。
When all the people who were being baptized,。
Jesus was baptized too.。
And as he was praying, heaven opened.。
Notice this.。
And the Holy Spirit descended on him。
in bodily form like a dove.。
And a voice came from heaven and said,。
"You are my Son, whom I love.。
"With you I am well pleased."。
I want you to notice this.。
At the beginning of creation in Genesis one and two,。
there's disorder and chaos in the world,。
but there's hope。
because the Holy Spirit is hovering over creation.。
Interestingly, in the Aramaic version of the Old Testament。
that was basically the one that was read。
during the time of Jesus' ministry,。
Jesus and the disciples largely spoke Aramaic than Hebrew.。
In the Aramaic version called the Targum,。
the actual word in Genesis one and two is the word dove.。
A dove floating over the disorder of creation,。
waiting to bring it into the fullness of life.。
Fast forward to his baptism,。
people see a dove descend down on Jesus.。
In other words, what's happening here。
is God is basically saying a new creation moment。
is taking place in this person.。
Like I'm about to do something through the life, death,。
and resurrection of this one person。
that is literally like a new creation moment.。
In the old creation with sin, everything fell into disorder,。
but in the new creation with Jesus,。
what is disordered is gonna come back into order.。
What is broken because of sin。
is gonna find redeemed life in the forgiveness。
and the reconciliation that Christ will do on the cross.。
And this is signified by this moment of the dove again,。
the spirit saying what is disordered in this world。
will be brought to order because of this one person.。
Still tracking?。
Now, last week at Easter,。
the death and resurrection of Jesus,。
we celebrated, didn't we, this amazing moment。
where Jesus in his resurrection appears,。
the tomb is empty,。
and the burial shroud has been set aside,。
and then Jesus appears to his disciples in John chapter 20.。
Let me read this to you.。
This is pretty cool.。
In John chapter 20,。
this is the first time Jesus shows himself in resurrection。
to his disciples.。
In verse 21, he says this.。
Again, Jesus said, "Peace be with you.。
As the Father has sent me, I am now sending you."。
And with that, he breathed on them and said,。
"Receive the Holy Spirit."。
Does that remind you of anything?。
So get your head around this.。
Adam formed out of the chaos of the ground,。
formed into the shape of man.。
God breathed on him,。
so what was disordered would come into order。
and life would come,。
not just life in order to breathe,。
but life as the Hebrews defined it,。
the fullness of what it could be。
as its original created intent.。
Now in the resurrection,。
Jesus shows up to the disciples。
who have so much brokenness within them,。
who are struggling with the reality。
of whether Jesus was the Messiah or not,。
and he's just had this creation moment,。
new creation moment.。
He then breathes over them,。
just like God breathed over Adam,。
he breathes over the disciples.。
And what he's communicating that is he's saying,。
"Receive the Holy Spirit."。
In other words, my desire for you。
is that you would now come fully alive,。
that you would now become the versions。
that God has always intended you to be.。
Because I've defeated sin,。
because death no longer has the final say,。
you now can find life.。
And not just any kind of life,。
but the Hebrew defined life,。
where the Spirit is at work in you,。
taking you from disorder to a place of order,。
dealing with the sin and the brokenness that's within you。
and building you into redeemed life in Christ Jesus.。
You see that?。
Isn't that amazing?。
That the Spirit of God, the person of God,。
is breathed into us at the moment of our salvation。
so that we can go into the fullness。
of how we were always intended to be, alive.。
Now I want you theologically,。
just to stick with me one moment,。
as I theologically just explain this.。
In the incarnation, God stepped into the disorder。
of this world and through the Holy Spirit。
made everything just as it was intended to be.。
Does that make sense?。
Now, in the same way, Jesus Christ steps into the disorder。
of our internal worlds and through the person。
of the Holy Spirit makes everything。
just as it was intended to be.。
So what happens for the whole of creation。
in the incarnation now happens for us individually。
in the incarnation of Christ through the Spirit。
in the indwelling personhood of the Spirit in us.。
What was disordered in all of creation,。
what is disordered in all of us,。
is now brought into the fullness of its order。
through the work of the Spirit.。
Are you following me?。
So what does this mean for us?。
Well, it means everything.。
It means that all of that disorder that we are aware of,。
the hurt, the brokenness, the pain, the sin,。
the trauma that's been done to us,。
the things that we deeply wrestle with,。
the realities that we understand。
that there's darkness and chaos still within us,。
the stuff that no one else sees that we bury behind,。
the places that we haven't even invited Christ into,。
all of those things, God would say,。
I've placed the person of the Spirit in you。
so that whatever is currently disordered,。
that does not define you.。
'Cause the work of the Spirit is always to take things。
that are disordered and to bring them into order.。
So when we say, Lord, more Holy Spirit,。
what we're actually saying is I need more order.。
I need to become the very person。
that I was originally created to be.。
This is the way that in the New Testament。
begins to speak of this work of the Spirit amongst us。
and I wanna show you one final slide。
to help pull this all together for you.。
This is the work of the Spirit bringing disorder to order.。
So the Scriptures tell us that the Holy Spirit。
brings us to faith in Jesus, helps us to know Jesus better,。
restores our relationship with the Father,。
drives us into mission and justice,。
binds us together as the body of Christ in unity,。
empowers our living worship and discipleship.。
All of this is what the Holy Spirit now does。
in that indwelling disorder to order reality in our lives.。
And here's the important thing.。
This is a cyclical thing that happens in us at all times.。
And there might be seasons where one of these。
becomes more prominent for us,。
but the Spirit of God is at work in us at all times,。
bringing us into a greater place of order.。
And I think sometimes we think it's like,。
I'm just gonna do step one, step two, step three,。
and then I'll get my certificate。
to say I'm a great Christian.。
We in Hong Kong love that, don't we?。
Give me the linear thing that I need to do。
to get the certificate that it says I've done it.。
That's not the way the Spirit works in our lives.。
There's a chipping away and a change within us。
that takes time sometimes.。
But as that work of the Spirit happens,。
the disorder over years becomes order.。
And this is how we're gonna break down our series with you.。
This is the final part of the slides.。
You can take a photo of this if you'd like,。
but these are the six, seven weeks that are ahead of us,。
the six weeks ahead of this week,。
where we're gonna each week break down。
one of these elements for you。
and help you to understand how the work of the Holy Spirit。
changes the bigger picture of everything in our lives.。
Is that helpful?。
Okay, I wanna finish with two questions。
that I want you to wrestle with this week.。
This is our homework this week.。
Come to church for homework.。
It's great.。
But these are two questions that I want you to sit with。
and wrestle with personally in the week ahead.。
Okay, here's the first question.。
If the person of the Holy Spirit。
is someone to be in fellowship with,。
am I actively cultivating a vibrant。
and personal connection with him?。
Do I see him still more as a force or energy to tap into。
than a person to walk with?。
Okay, I want you to do some wrestling with that。
in your own quiet time in the week ahead.。
And the second one is this.。
If the work of the Holy Spirit is primarily。
to take things that are in disorder。
and bring them into order,。
what is currently still in disorder in my life?。
Where do I need to invite the Holy Spirit。
to enter and reorder?。
Helpful?。
All right, can you stand with me?。
I would love to pray for you.。
Maybe you'll be open to that posture。
of just humility and openness。
by opening your hands once more before the Spirit of God.。
Father, we stand before you as the Vine Church。
in this season of uncharted waters,。
desperate to deepen our relationship,。
our fellowship with the person of the Holy Spirit.。
Father, I pray for each person here,。
for the journey that they're on over the next seven weeks.。
Lord, I thank you that you are going to be helping us。
to understand the both end of you,。
the dramatic things that perhaps we're most aware of,。
and the quiet things that you're doing within us。
that perhaps even right now we're not aware of.。
Lord, I pray over this series。
that you would help each person in this room,。
those watching online now, those in our overflow,。
be strengthened in their understanding of the Spirit,。
and therefore strengthened in their inner person.。
Lord, for any of us here where we would admit。
that our primary way of thinking about the Spirit。
is mostly like a force or an energy,。
and not a person, Lord, would you help us this week。
to recalibrate the way in which we think,。
to engage in a different way of worship,。
to understand that our posture。
is not one of tapping in and gaining.。
Our posture is one of knowing and submitting.。
And Lord, I pray that that would be important。
for some of us in this room。
at the beginning of this series.。
Lord, I wanna pray for the disorder。
that I know that is still in my life,。
and the disorder that I'm sure。
is in every person's life in this room.。
Lord, we thank you for where you've already taken us。
by the work of your Spirit.。
We thank you for the ways in which we are better people。
than we were a year ago, two years ago, five years ago.。
But like we started this time,。
we speak against the narrative of the enemy。
that would try to constantly keep us。
away from the progression of healing。
that the Holy Spirit is doing in us.。
And Lord, I wanna pray that any areas of disorder。
you would awaken us to in the next seven weeks.。
And I pray, Lord, that as your Spirit convicts us。
of some of the areas of our lives。
that we haven't fully submitted。
to the sovereignty of the Lord Jesus,。
Lord, that we would do so in grace and expectation and hope.。
I thank you, Lord, that there is no condemnation。
in Christ Jesus, but there is conviction。
by the kindness of the Spirit of God.。
And Lord, I pray that if any of us need。
that conviction of your Word,。
Lord, that we would be humble enough。
to submit ourselves to the reordering。
that you wanna do in our lives.。
Lord, I thank you for the freedom that is coming.。
Lord, I thank you that what is ahead of us。
is greater than what is behind us.。
I thank you that that same Spirit。
that raised Jesus from the dead is in each one here.。
And Lord, in that, would you come and have your way。
and have your being?。
And we pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, "Amen."。
Let's worship together.。
(congregation applauding)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
