As always, good and honored to be here with everybody to bring God's Word.。
I'm a Hong Kong boy and grew up here in Hong Kong.。
How many of you guys grew up here in Hong Kong?。
Did you get a wave of hands?。
Okay, a lot of us. Really cool.。
Okay, so I think you can agree, a really fun and exciting place to grow up as a kid.。
One of my favorite pastimes, maybe you resonate with this too,。
was to go to the video games arcades that used to be everywhere, right?。
Go to the arcade and play video games. That was one of my favorite things to do back in the day.。
Before home consoles were popular, before we had mobile phones with all kinds of games on them,。
the arcade was the place to hang out.。
If you wanted to play video games, you wanted to spend time with your friends,。
you would go to the arcades.。
And they would be everywhere. There used to be so many arcades.。
Street Fighter, Final Fight, Initial D, Dance Dance Revolution.。
You looked like an idiot trying to step on all those arrows. It was so much fun.。
Beatmania, you could be like a DJ and make music and stuff like that.。
So much fun.。
After school, you take your lunch money. You're supposed to buy lunch with it, but you didn't.。
So you go to the arcade, you go up to the counter, you change your money for the one dollar coins,。
and that was your afternoon sorted.。
The best extracurricular activity you could do.。
However, there was a problem.。
Because these arcades actually had an age requirement.。
And so technically, you had to be 16 years old to go in and play these games.。
So let's travel back in time. Imagine it's 1996.。
12-year-old Alison, just into secondary school.。
I'm like 4'5" at the time, trying to pass as a 16-year-old.。
You can judge for yourself. This is a picture of me at 12 years old.。
I look about 9, probably.。
I know it's paid off now. I still look young.。
Asians don't raise in, that's what they say.。
But back then, it was ultra frustrating.。
Because I would walk into the arcade, and the manager would take one look at me and say,。
"There is no way this little boy is 16 years old. You need to get out."。
So desperately, I tried to make myself look older.。
I would put on glasses, put on spectacles to make myself look more mature.。
That never worked. Put on certain clothes to make myself look older.。
That never worked. Or a walk-in weary confident.。
Never worked, until I found one way around this.。
I discovered fake IDs.。
Now, I'm not proud of this, but desperate times call for stupid decisions.。
So I thought if I had a fake ID, it wouldn't matter how I looked.。
I could just show the ID, and I would be playing games all through my afternoon.。
The more idiotic part of this plan, I had no idea how to get a fake ID.。
My dad's a policeman, so it was a really big problem for me.。
So, I decided to make it myself.。
I had it, so I wish I could show you a picture of it.。
It was red with lightning bolts in the background.。
I used Microsoft Word. Amazing Word art, graphics, all that kind of stuff.。
I became Jarvis Lee, 16 years old, attending Washington Heights International School.。
It was just completely made up. I thought it was legit, like laminated and everything.。
To my surprise, it would sometimes work.。
Only if the lady behind the arcade manager was an old Chinese lady who didn't read any English.。
That was the only situation it would work.。
As I was reflecting on my childhood and reflecting on this passage,。
some of these things made me think about some questions that I had.。
So often in life, we judge things. We have to judge things.。
We often judge things based upon the way it looks.。
Often, this leads to us having a fear of other people's judgment.。
Because of other people's judgment, what we think they might think about us,。
we want to change the way we are.。
Or maybe I'll ask it this way. Have you ever wished you could be, or you were,。
or you look like someone else because of what other people's expectations of you were?。
We were in week two of our sermon series, and we're starting 2025 Strong Together.。
We're looking at these passages in the book of 1 Samuel.。
We're discovering, we want to see how we can begin well.。
We're shifting our focus from intimacy last year into action.。
And we recall, you know, last year, Andrew talked about us not letting the things of the past, right,。
these emotional barriers of hurt, disappointment, regret, shame, and failure hold us back。
because these things often stop us from moving forward to where God wants us to go.。
And so today I want to talk to us about our choices.。
And this is an important step to take because we've moved, right,。
we've been moved and motivated into action, right?。
That's the whole point. Together as a body of Christ, we hear God calling us into action.。
But in order to act well, we have to choose well.。
But this is the issue, right?。
We very much make choices based on outward appearances, right,。
from like fruit at the wet market to the people we meet every day.。
We are constantly making judgments based upon the way things look。
and then based upon our judgment of them, we'll make certain choices.。
There's academic studies done about this, right?。
We'll tell you that no matter how much we embrace, you know,。
the mantra of don't judge a book by its cover,。
the truth is we go about our daily lives responding to a lot of people based upon their physical appearance.。
And the sad truth is that if you're deemed to be more attractive,。
you're often treated more favorably or so I've been told.。
I don't know. Maybe you can ask Nathan. Is that true?。
Yeah. Yeah. Going around as a handsome man.。
We can look at the passage today. Right.。
And as we continue tracing Samuel's journey,。
my prayers that it would challenge us to shift our perspective, right,。
to open up our eyes to the fact that if we are truly to follow God with our lives,。
we have to see things from his perspective and we must learn to embrace the things that he values。
so we can live the lives and make the choices that God wants us to make.。
Because at the end of the day, that is our goal, right?。
As followers of Jesus, that is where we find our significance.。
That's where we find our meaning in lives.。
That's where we want to put our efforts into beginning and acting,。
not with our agenda, but with God's heart for us.。
And true significance, true action is going to come when you discover and embrace God's direction for you.。
So we're going to go to scripture 1 Samuel 16, 2 to 13.。
And we're going to pick up from where Andrew left off last week.。
I'm going to read. It's a longish passage. So bear with me.。
You can read together and let's see what God says.。
But Samuel said, how can I go if? Yeah, sorry. Let me start again.。
But Samuel said, how can I go? If Saul hears about it, he will kill me.。
The Lord said, take a heifer with you and say, I have come to sacrifice to the Lord.。
Invite Jesse to the sacrifice and I will show you what to do.。
You are to anoint for me the one I indicate.。
Samuel did what the Lord said when he arrived at Bethlehem.。
The elders of the town trembled when they met him.。
They asked, do you come in peace?。
Samuel said, yes, in peace, I have come to sacrifice to the Lord.。
Consecrate yourselves and come to the sacrifice with me.。
Then he consecrated Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice.。
When they arrived, Samuel saw Eliab and thought,。
surely the Lord's anointed stands here before the Lord.。
But the Lord said to Samuel, listen, do not consider his appearance or his sight,。
for I have rejected him.。
The Lord does not look at the things people look at.。
People look at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart.。
Then Jesse called Adimadab and had him pass in front of Samuel.。
But Samuel said, the Lord has not chosen this one either.。
Jesse then had Shammah pass by, but Samuel said,。
nor has the Lord chosen this one.。
Jesse had seven of his sons pass before Samuel,。
but Samuel said to him, the Lord has not chosen these.。
So he asked Jesse, are these all the sons that you have?。
They are still the youngest, Jesse answered.。
He is tending the sheep.。
Samuel said, send for him.。
We will not sit down until he arrives.。
So he sent for him and had him brought in.。
He was glowing with health and had a fine appearance and handsome features.。
Then the Lord said, rise and anoint him.。
This is the one.。
So Samuel took the horn of oil, as he did last we remember with Saul,。
and anointed him in the presence of his brothers.。
And from that day on, the spirit of the Lord had come powerfully upon David.。
Samuel then went on to Ramah.。
So a quick story of a recap of the story so far.。
Israel had the first case of what it's like to have a king rule over them.。
And with Saul as a king, what started off as a good thing has very quickly turned sour,。
just as God had warned them that it would.。
And ultimately, Saul disobeys God.。
He makes some really, really silly, really bad choices.。
And as a consequence, he is rejected as the king of Israel.。
But I think to get an even fuller picture of what's happening,。
we need to go even further back.。
Because the whole reason that Israelites wanted a king in the first place。
was because they too had made a pretty bad choice.。
A new nation, a new group of people emerging out of slavery into the Promised Land.。
They'd been wandering in the wilderness.。
They looked around them and they saw that every single other country,。
all the other people around them had a physical king,。
an actual dude that they could look to, a person they could see to lead them.。
And so they started to think, well, we actually, we want to be just like them.。
In fact, the very words of the people were, we want a king over us.。
Then we will be like all the other nations with a king to lead us,。
to go up before us and to fight our battles.。
Andrew, we mentioned this last week a little bit as well,。
but I want to revisit it because this baffles me every time I read it.。
You know, just to think, after all that God had brought them through。
out of slavery, right into the wilderness, looking after them with food,。
miraculously like manna and quail and water gushing from the rock, right?。
Parting the Red Sea, bringing down the walls of Jericho,。
countless miraculous victories over the enemies.。
Time after time after time, God proving his faithfulness to them.。
And time and time again, God proving to them that he is the greatest,。
the strongest, more powerful than any human king or any other God could ever be.。
And yet Israel said they would rather have a human king rule over them other than God.。
They had forgotten their role as the chosen people,。
as the ones who'd been set apart by God.。
I mean, just think, if Samuel felt rejected, how do you think God felt in that moment?。
The Israelites made a terrible choice because they forgot their first love.。
They forgot who it was that had given them everything they had,。
and instead they wanted to conform and become like everyone else.。
But how about us, church?。
When we look back at our own lives, you know, and as we point through。
and as we recall all the things God has guided us through,。
maybe some of us in this room were once enslaved to sin,。
but God has set you free from that.。
Maybe once we were in a season of wilderness, wondering where to go.。
Now God has led us to a promised land.。
Maybe God has helped you overcome and defeat enemies that you thought would destroy you.。
But now that things are good, perhaps we've been looking around and thinking to ourselves,。
actually, you know, maybe there actually is a better way.。
And lots of people around me don't follow God.。
Lots of people around me aren't about Jesus.。
Maybe it would be better to be like everyone else.。
It seems like sometimes when we look at people and the way they live their lives,。
you don't know God, they have more freedom.。
They can just do whatever they want to do.。
Maybe that's the way to live.。
Or maybe you're suddenly feeling a bit self-conscious about your relationship with Jesus.。
And because it's a bit different, you know, you're starting to feel a bit weird。
and feel like you stand out a little bit.。
And so you try to fit in and you want to conform and look like everyone else。
rather than representing Jesus with how you live your life.。
And I feel like as we do this, if we make these sort of choices,。
God's heart is grieved when he sees his children walk away from him in this way.。
Let me be a reminder for us this morning.。
I'm preaching to myself as well, church, okay?。
Stay faithful to God.。
There is no other way.。
The best choice you can make in your life is to keep being obedient to Jesus.。
Now, this might be the best choice.。
But as we've probably discovered, it's not going to be easy.。
And I think there's one big barrier that holds us back from starting off this journey,。
from making this choice to being obedient to Jesus, holding us back from faithfulness.。
And this is the fear, the question of what if.。
It's the fear of what if that actually initially holds Samuel back。
when God tells him to go and anoint one of Jesse's sons to be the new king of Israel.。
Listen to it again.。
He says, "How can I go if?"。
What if?。
"If Saul hears about it, he will kill me."。
"If Saul hears about it, he will kill me."。
And you know what?。
He had some legitimate grounds for his fears.。
Saul had just been told, and the Bible tells us he had just been removed as king,。
so he's very conscious of what's happening with his role.。
He's angry.。
He's emotional.。
He's the kind of guy that's very capable of taking someone's life.。
Actually, the whole nation is afraid.。
When Samuel comes to the elders of the village, they say even they're trembling about what's going to happen next.。
And we can apply this to our own lives too.。
But when God charges us with something, when God tells you to do something,。
maybe it's something a bit challenging, maybe it's something a bit tough,。
maybe it's going to take a little bit of courage, a little bit of a risk.。
But how do we respond?。
I know often in life, my own answer to this starts with a "what if."。
I'm not sure, you know, under church, if you relate to that.。
I wonder how many of us are stuck in this "what if,"。
and I wonder how many of these "what ifs" hold us back from what God really wants to do through us.。
I wonder how many of us are letting our "what ifs" stop us making the right choice to be obedient to God.。
Because listen, if we focus on "what ifs," the list could go on forever.。
There is always going to be the question of "what if" whenever God asks us to do something.。
This is what Moses struggled with when God told him to go back into Israel, to free your people, let the people go.。
"What if" was one of the first things Moses responded.。
"What if they don't believe me? What if the Pharaoh, you know, I'm not a good speaker.。
What if? What if? What if?"。
"What if I never find anyone else ever again? What if I fail?。
What if people make fun of me? What if I get rejected? What if it doesn't work out?"。
These echo the five emotional barriers that Andrew talked about last week.。
The hurt, disappointment, regret, shame, and failure all can be rooted in the "what ifs."。
And if we just focus on "what ifs," it will spiral us down into a deep, dark pit。
that's very, very difficult to climb out of.。
I know in my own life, one of the biggest "what ifs" came when we were deciding to start a family and have children.。
Let me explain a little bit what I mean by that.。
When I was born, I was born with a genetic condition.。
It was an unexpected thing, and no one else in my family has it.。
It's one of these things that progresses over time.。
It progressively can get worse. It's actually very unusual.。
You never really know how it's going to turn out, but it does progress over time as you get older.。
And one of the things is that it's a 50/50 chance whether or not you pass it down to your kids.。
And so as we were deciding about having kids, you know, we were fostering, do we adopt, do we have our own biological children?。
"What if?" was a huge question.。
And we asked ourselves, I asked myself, "What if our kids inherit my disorder?。
What's life going to look like for them?。
What if they have to suffer through all the turmoil, the emotions, everything that I had to go through?。
The last thing I would want them to go through is what I went through myself.。
What if it affects them in ways that we can't even see coming right now?"。
Now, just to be real, my wife and I, we have two children, two boys,。
and both our boys have indeed ended up inheriting my genetic condition.。
In other words, my, our, what if became a reality.。
Like the thing I feared most became a reality in our lives.。
But you know what we came to realize in this process?。
What we realized in this process is that, and what I, as I was looking at this passage and reflecting,。
is that our God isn't a God of what ifs.。
Our God is a God of even if. Amen?。
And as Brittany and I reflected back on this journey, she was really the one who reminded me that,。
actually, God never promised that everything would be okay.。
God never promised that our boys would be born without this genetic disorder.。
Even though that's what we fasted and prayed for, this is, we would gather people around,。
and we prayed, and we prayed, and we prayed.。
And Brittany reminded me that we realized that the only promise that God gave。
was that He would be with us even if.。
And what we have now is beautiful, and it's exhausting,。
but my family is a choice that I would make over and over and over and over again.。
Now, just to keep it real with you too, do I still hope and pray things could be different?。
Yes. Are we constantly praying for healing over myself and my sons?。
Of course. Every single night, that's my prayer for them.。
But even if, even if God doesn't answer those prayers,。
I'm going to give thanks for the beautiful gift that He has given us in our family and in our children.。
Listen, church, don't let your what ifs hold you back.。
This is what Daniel and his friends were facing in the fiery furnace, right?。
And they decided that even if they were going to be burned alive, they would stay faithful to God.。
I have no clue what you guys are going through.。
You know, I've sat and been with you and sat with you through some of us in this room today.。
And I know some of us here are going through unimaginable things right now.。
But what I do know is this, even if the worst case scenario in your mind comes true,。
even if then God is with you and if we are faithful and obedient to God,。
He assures that He will never leave us or forsake us.。
And this is what Samuel does, right? He, he, he responds in obedience,。
even if he had the potential for him to be, to end up dead.。
Scripture tells us Samuel did what the Lord said.。
Church, will this be our response?。
Even if it's the hard thing to do, are we willing to do what the Lord says?。
Because if we're going to embrace this year as a year of action,。
it means that the Lord is going to call us to do something.。
And more often than not, it's going to be challenging, right?。
The things that God calls us to do are not going to make sense from a worldly perspective.。
It's going to take an even if mindset for us to go forward in these things, right?。
What if Jesus tells you to give your money away to this or to that?。
Would you be willing to do it?。
What if the Holy Spirit impresses on you that you need to forgive that person。
who has hurt you so profoundly? Would you be willing?。
What if God says you need to go and share the gospel with that colleague。
that you've been sitting next to for three years that, you know,。
you've never talked to about Jesus. Would you be willing to do it?。
Samuel's about to discover that God does things in his own and amazing ways.。
And he obeys God and God sends him to Jesse's house because he has a task。
to anoint one of his sons as the next king of Israel.。
And so Samuel arrives. Let's go back to the story.。
When they arrived, Samuel saw Eliab and thought,。
"Surely the Lord's anointed here stands before the Lord."。
But let me remind us again.。
"The Lord said to Samuel, 'Do not consider his appearance or his height,。
for I have rejected him.' The Lord does not look at the things people look at.。
People look at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart.。
Then Jesse called Edim-ed-dab and had him pass in front of Samuel.。
And Samuel said, 'The Lord has not chosen any of these sons.'"。
The Lord didn't choose any of his seven sons.。
And Jesse asked, "Are these all the sons that you have?"。
So in my mind when I read this passage, it was like a scene out of America's Next Top Model.。
Two beautiful models stand before me, but only one can become America's Next Top Model.。
I do a pretty good Tyra Banks impression.。
Anyway, that's for another time.。
So big brother Eliab stands up. He is tall. He is handsome. He's the man.。
This is the very reason Samuel thought Eliab was the man,。
because Saul had very similar features, we find out.。
Saul was also tall and handsome.。
1 Samuel 9 tells us that Saul was tall and handsome, a handsome young man,。
as tall, a head above everybody else.。
And Samuel is so impressed by what he sees in this beautiful specimen of a person.。
And he says, "Surely, surely this has got to be it."。
This is what I'm looking at. He's so handsome. He's so tall. He's so beautiful.。
It couldn't possibly be anyone else.。
But God had other plans.。
And maybe this has been you, right? Maybe you've seen something and it looks good, right?。
It makes you feel good. It's attractive. It's desirable.。
And because it looks so good, you've come to the decision that surely this is what God wants for me.。
Oh, this relationship, it feels so good.。
Surely this is the right person for me.。
This boy I met is so handsome. He has to be it.。
This girl I met is so pretty. Surely she's the one for me.。
This job, it pays so well. I get to work in Central, right?。
This must be the right place for me to do my work.。
Listen, just because it looks good doesn't mean it is good.。
And there are so many things that look good and we think will be good for us,。
but it is not what God wants for our lives.。
My son Isaiah could eat breakfast, lunch, and dinner, ice cream, every single meal,。
but obviously that's not good for him.。
And God challenged Samuel, "Change your perspective.。
Don't look at the things other people look at.。
Do not consider his appearance or his height, for I have rejected him.。
For a short guy like me, that's music to my ears."。
Always overlooked because of being short.。
But listen seriously how God speaks.。
This is strong language. Do not consider.。
In other words, God says, "Don't even think about it.。
Don't let what you can see with your eyes make your decision for you."。
He might be big. He might be tall. He might be handsome.。
In the world's opinion, he looks the part.。
He might look exactly what you have in mind as a king, but he is not the one.。
And God goes far to say that actually he has rejected Eliab as king.。
This is the same word he uses when he removes Saul from his power position as king.。
He uses the same word. He is rejected.。
"I have rejected this man as the king of Israel."。
In other words, what God is trying to get Samuel to know is that despite how he looks,。
despite your own judgment, like I said, he's not the man. Why?。
Because the Lord does not look at the things people look at,。
and we should give a hallelujah to that.。
But let's think about this for a moment.。
What is it that we find so important?。
What are some of the things that we look at?。
What are some of these outward appearance things that we put so much weight and importance upon?。
Again, don't hear me wrong.。
I'm not saying don't take care of yourself, right?。
Of course, keep fit, work out, put some makeup on, choose a nice outfit, get a haircut.。
All this stuff is not bad in and of itself, right?。
However, it becomes bad when we only use these earthly things and this earthly perspective。
to make judgments about other people and how we make our decisions.。
A problem is it becomes bad when we only use these things to judge how we make our choices.。
But so often this is how society and maybe even us, we live our lives.。
We talked about this a little bit just now, but very much we live in a day and age。
when we totally judge things based upon outward appearances.。
The things people look at, right?。
Like how you look, of course, the car you drive, the watch that you're wearing, the job you hold,。
where you live, how much money you appear to have, the partner you're with,。
the places you go eat, the places you go on holiday, how much money you have,。
how much money you spend on your handbag, your education level, things like this.。
But even the more important things are things like ethnicity, the color of your skin.。
We as a people are so prone to make judgments based on these outward appearance things.。
Hong Kong as a society is systemic for this, right?。
The problem is it leads to us making really, really horrible choices when we live like this.。
Firstly, it affects the way we treat each other.。
We see an important-looking guy, we see a rich-looking person and a poor-looking person,。
and we begin to treat the rich-looking person better.。
We see a person who appears to be less educated or less successful,。
and we immediately make certain assumptions about them.。
We see someone of a different ethnicity or skin color,。
and immediately our mind is filled with prejudice and racist and discriminatory thoughts.。
So it affects the way we treat each other.。
But it also affects the way you treat yourself.。
And often we will go to painstaking lengths to appear a certain way,。
to try and impress other people.。
Maybe you're trying to force your body to make a certain way,。
causing harm to your personal health.。
Maybe you're going deep into debt, you're buying all this stuff and going on holidays,。
eating all these fancy things just to give the impression that your life is good and perfect.。
And we compromise our dignity and values in relationships just so that we can feel and be accepted.。
But listen to what Scripture tells us, Church.。
"Charm is deceitful, beauty is vain."。
And don't forget that even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light.。
In other words, even the most evil things sometimes can have the appearance of looking good.。
And you know, actually, it's easy to make yourself look good,。
to keep up an appearance, to make your social media look like your life is perfect.。
But it's all just a facade.。
And this is exactly the things that frustrated when Jesus looked out at the world,。
when Jesus was here, he saw the Pharisees, right?。
One of the most frustrating things about them was that Jesus said they were like whitewashed tombs,。
good on the outside but rotten on the inside.。
You justify yourself in front of others, but God knows your heart.。
What people value highly is detestable in God's sight.。
Outwardly, you appear righteous to others, but within you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness.。
This isn't the people we've been called to be church.。
We haven't been called to be people that just look good on the outside.。
We haven't been called to a people that make choices based upon outward appearances.。
Well, let me say it this way, Jesus didn't die on the cross just so that we could appear to be good, right?。
And one of the dangers we face at the beginning of the year is that we focus all our energy into making choices。
so we can appear to be good on the outside and as long as I appear to be good, everything is going to be fine.。
But come on, do we really want to live like this?。
It's kind of easy, but it's also super exhausting.。
And you're going to fool some people for some time, maybe even for yourself for a while.。
But again, let's be reminded, God, the Lord does not look at the things people look at.。
People look at outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart.。
The Lord is after our heart.。
He sees our motivations. He knows your intentions.。
He sees others. He sees things others don't see, right?。
Your character, your values, the places we've been, the thoughts you hold in your mind, your desires, your hopes and your dreams.。
The psalmist will even say he knows when you rise up and he knows when you sit down.。
He knows everything about you because he created you.。
He is your heavenly father. There is no hiding.。
There is nothing that goes unnoticed when it comes to God's knowledge of us.。
And that includes what happens inside your heart.。
So the question for us this morning, church, is this.。
How is your heart?。
Is it clean?。
Is it pure?。
Is it set on the things that are above and not on the things of earth?。
Do you have a heart of flesh instead of a heart of stone?。
Does your heart meditate on the word of God?。
Is it full of the joy of the Lord?。
Is it wise?。
Do you have a heart that seeks to please the Lord?。
Does it come alive at the hearing of God's word?。
You have a heart that God would be after.。
These are the things that we should be concerned with most.。
Things of the heart.。
And yes, this is the harder choice to make.。
But when we take a good look at our hearts and squeeze it and test it,。
is it the things of God that comes out?。
Because this is the kind of church that Jesus is looking for.。
This is what he went to the cross for.。
Not superficial change, but for hearts that are longing for his presence in their lives.。
You see, the world might overlook the importance of the heart.。
We see that Samuel and Jesse almost did.。
And these seven sons come before them, and all of them probably are tall and handsome,。
but none of them are the one that God has chosen.。
It's kind of funny in this story because he goes saying, you know,。
you have only seven boys, only seven sons.。
You have any more?。
Like that seven is not enough, right?。
Now, Jesse was probably thinking, it must be one of these, right?。
It can't possibly be David.。
He didn't even bother calling David in in the first place until he was reminded,。
oh, yeah, I have one more son.。
He is out tending the sheep.。
And so from out in the fields, away from everyone, David is called in.。
He's the youngest, Jesse answered.。
He is tending the sheep.。
So he's sent for, he's brought in, he's glowing with health.。
It says he has fine and handsome features.。
And the Lord said, rise up and anoint him.。
This is the one.。
So Samuel takes a horn of oil and anoints him in the presence of his brothers.。
They were still the youngest.。
This is also translated as the smallest, right?。
And I think this, for Samuel, this was like a turning point.。
Ah, okay.。
This is what the Lord's been saying.。
He's been telling me, don't look at this height.。
Here comes this little guy now.。
Okay.。
Maybe he's the one.。
And into the story introduced to David, the shepherd boy,。
glowing, healthy, and handsome, it says.。
Now, again, let me explain for a minute, because it sounds a bit contradictory, right?。
God just said, don't consider his outward appearance.。
Now scripture divides and describes David as fine and handsome.。
Okay.。
So what's up with that?。
Okay.。
It's important, right?。
Because notice, David was not picked because of his looks.。
Okay.。
It just so happened, all right, that he was good looking.。
It's the same point that scripture is trying to highlight, right?。
It doesn't matter how you look.。
If you're handsome, congratulations.。
God can use you.。
Okay.。
If you look a bit different, okay, God can choose you too.。
The same point remains, right?。
The looks is not what God looks on as important.。
What matters is your heart.。
And we're going to find out the qualities that David had were beyond his handsome。
and rugged looks, right?。
It's because he had a heart that was after God, right?。
He was a man after God's own heart.。
And the fact that he was a shepherd boy is also a significant detail.。
Again, on the outward appearance, something others would have overlooked, right?。
Being a shepherd would not have made sense for him to become king, right?。
Someone with -- you needed someone, right, for a king to be from a military。
background, right, who knew how to fight, right?。
Who is this kid who's been tending sheep, right?。
What right does he have to become a king?。
Right, David is almost like a male Cinderella in this story, right?。
Cast out to the field to do the domestic chores.。
But as we consider further on in the story, when Jesus comes to this earth,。
how else does he describe himself as the good shepherd, right?。
As pastors, right, the word pastor actually means a shepherd of the people, right?。
So it's ironic that as the people would have never chosen a shepherd boy to lead the nation,。
this is exactly what God had in mind all along.。
It looks like he doesn't know how to fight, but check this out.。
You'll find out next week.。
It was very much because he was a shepherd out in the fields protecting his sheep。
that David acquired the skills that he needed to fight and bring down Goliath。
when he was in one-on-one combat with him.。
My point is this, God is serious when he says he looks at the heart.。
God isn't concerned about outward appearances and social norms.。
So church, let me ask you again, how is your heart?。
Because it might seem like according to the world, you don't have what it takes.。
And people might have said to you, "Oh, you haven't achieved very much.。
What do you have to show for yourself?"。
It might seem like from outward appearances and earthly standards。
that you haven't been successful.。
Don't let the world lie to you.。
Stop listening to that junk and open your eyes to see things from God's perspective.。
Are we as a body of Christ able to rise above these superficial and earthly standards?。
The call on us, like I said, has not been to conform to this world,。
but to allow the Holy Spirit of God to transform and renew us.。
And this starts by the renewing of our hearts.。
The Psalms will teach us to pray, "Create in me a pure heart, O God,。
and renew a steadfast spirit within me."。
Create in me a pure heart, not so I can look good to everyone else,。
not so I can appear to be righteous,。
but create within me a pure heart so that empowered by the Holy Spirit,。
I'm able to do your will.。
I'm able to choose to live life in the way that God has called me to live.。
I don't care what the world thinks.。
I don't care about that stuff.。
If this is really going to be a year of action for us,。
if we're serious about seeing the life of the Holy Spirit move in this church,。
if we're serious to see people coming into life-changing,。
salvation-giving relationship with Jesus,。
then this needs to be a place where all of us,。
I'm calling all of us to reflect the heart of God.。
This needs to be a place where someone who doesn't know Jesus at all。
walks in and says, "You know what? These people are different.。
I'm not judged here as I am on the outside world.。
They don't live life the same way.。
They don't make decisions the same way.。
They have hearts that reflect the heart of Jesus."。
And if we want to see the Spirit of God move powerfully in our midst,。
our hearts have to be in the right place.。
So this is how we're going to end.。
I'm going to ask all of us to close our eyes。
so we can just focus on what God wants to speak to us in this time.。
So I encourage you, church,。
and if you're online and overflow outside right now,。
just close your eyes so you can focus.。
And our prayer is going to come from the line in the psalm that I read just now.。
I'm going to invite you in a minute to pray and repeat after me.。
I'm repeating Scripture, but you repeat after God's Word.。
But only do so if you're ready, church.。
Only do so if this is something that--a choice that you're making for yourself.。
So I'm going to read.。
And like I said, if you feel ready, you can repeat this as well.。
"Create in me a pure heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit within me."。
Now let that sit with you for a minute.。
And invite the Holy Spirit now to come and move in your heart,。
to do that searching, to search the depth,。
to bring up anything that you need to confess to the Lord,。
to deal with, to hand over to Him.。
And just invite the Holy Spirit now to come and move within you.。
[music]。
And as the Holy Spirit is moving,。
I again invite you to repeat these words after me from Psalm 139.。
"Search me, God, and know my heart.。
Test me and know my anxious thoughts.。
See if there's any offensive way in me,。
and lead me in the way everlasting."。
And so, Jesus, as we come before you now as a church,。
we pray for our hearts.。
And I pray that you would come and do the work。
that only your love and your presence can do.。
And yes, the world might have a certain--。
we have to be in this world, and we have to live lives,。
and we have to go about our daily work and things like that.。
But it's precisely in those spaces, Lord, that you want us to represent you.。
It's precisely in the way we live our lives。
that you want us to reflect who you are,。
the heart that you have for us and the people around us.。
And so, Jesus, we give our hearts to you.。
Give us hearts that are clean and pure and new。
so that we can make the choices and live the life。
that you have called us to live.。
And as your body, Lord, as your children, as this church,。
as followers of you, we carry that with us。
every single day of our life, Lord.。
Yeah.。
Come change our hearts, Jesus.。
We pray this in your name.。
Amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
