Just think about this for a moment.。
There are millions of churches around the world in the next 24 hours that are going。
to be declaring those very words that death cannot hold God down.。
That we get to, across the world, join this chorus, this symphony of praise that declares。
that death is not the full stop.。
That God changes that full stop into a comma and says that there is more to the story.。
That what is ahead is greater than what has been in the past.。
And I think that is a message that we here in Hong Kong get to bring our own voice to.。
We get to stand in front of all the death that is around us and declare that that is。
not the end.。
That that is not the final word.。
That that is not the end of the story.。
That there is hope.。
That there is this eternal idea that Christ, having overcome sin, now sits at the right。
hand of the Father.。
So when we call on the name of Jesus, we're not calling on some rabbi from the first century。
who died a painful death.。
We're calling on a God who's present in this moment.。
The one who is Emmanuel, God with us.。
We're calling on the name that is above every name.。
That in doing that, we get to declare something that is radical to the darkness around us.。
That there is hope in this moment for life.。
And not just normal life.。
Not just a life that seems to have all of its ups and downs.。
But as Jesus declares, life and life eternal, abundant life.。
That God is able to do abundantly more than we could ever ask or imagine.。
That's the God that we're singing to right now.。
That's the one that churches around the world are praising in this moment.。
Could you imagine what the Spirit of God can do on the earth as millions of churches declare。
in their own way what it means to see a resurrected Savior in 2021.。
If we've ever needed Jesus to walk into our workplaces.。
To walk into our aisles and our seats of government and leadership.。
To walk into the places of our neighborhood that seems the darkest.。
To walk into our families and our marriages and our children.。
If there's ever been a moment that we've need Jesus to be present in His resurrected authority。
and stand over darkness and say, "You do not get the final say.。
Surely it's now."。
And I want to just encourage you wherever you are watching this, wherever you're receiving。
this.。
That whatever has happened and whatever is going on right now, we certainly don't play。
down the realities of what we all sit in.。
The struggles that we have, the traumas that we go through, the difficulty of this moment,。
the pandemic that is still here, the wonderings for our future.。
We all are standing there together.。
But we are not without hope.。
I want to encourage you that as you open up your heart, as you open up your hands, as。
you open up your spirit, that God will meet you in this moment with His resurrection power.。
And He will enable you to see Him afresh and to find that hope new and alive in you today.。
It's our prayer as the Vine Church for you watching this, that you'll find that resurrection。
hope in you in this moment.。
Let me pray for us, each one of us together.。
Father, we just thank you for this thought that we join a symphony of glory and worship。
across the world in this moment.。
Though we think of the smallest churches and the largest churches, we think of all the。
different denominations, all the different ways of expressing your glory.。
We think of those that express it quietly and those that express it loudly.。
We think of those that, Lord, have very few words and those that seem to be abundant in。
their words.。
Lord, we come before you as the global body of Christ.。
And Father, we thank you.。
We thank you that you felt like that pain and that separation on the cross was worth。
it for us.。
We thank you that you did not turn your back fully on humanity.。
We thank you that through the power of the resurrection of Jesus, you have faced forwards。
towards humanity.。
And we can now see you face to face, that that shroud in the temple has been torn, that。
your presence now moves here on earth like it is in heaven.。
Lord, we pray for that beauty of heaven on earth.。
We pray for glimpses of it amongst us like we've never experienced before.。
We thank you, Lord, that that is our story, Lord.。
And we will declare that story from church to church, from place to place, from workplace。
to workplace and home to home, that you are our hope.。
And we thank you for this in Jesus name, everyone says, Amen.。
You know, it's amazing to me that we do get to join together in that hope that we get。
to be a people together declaring God's good work on earth right now.。
And as we open the scriptures to us today, as we come around this idea of what it is。
to see the resurrection of Jesus and to feel that spirit moving in us, I'm going to bring。
you a special message that we've been working on here at The Vine for a number of months。
now.。
We filmed this a couple of weeks ago, and in a moment you'll get to see why we're not。
doing it live and why we filmed it.。
But it's really a way for us to bring a creative expression around what resurrection hope is。
all about, particularly in dark times right now.。
So whatever it is that you're dealing with, whatever it is that you and your family are。
going through right now, my prayer as you watch this, my prayer as we open scripture。
together, my prayer as we listen to his hope that you would find renewed hope in you, because。
we are the people of the resurrection.。
Let's take a look at this together.。
So it's Saturday, and just the day before, Jesus has been murdered on a Roman cross.。
And here are the disciples on Saturday, hiding behind closed doors, overwhelmed by what's。
just happened and filled with fear and grief.。
The Bible tells us that when Jesus breathes out his last breath, a darkness descends on。
the earth, like a blackness covers creation.。
And here are the disciples behind those closed doors, and they're feeling like a darkness。
has covered them too.。
Imagine what it would have felt like for those disciples.。
I mean, they had hoped that Jesus was going to redeem all of Israel.。
They believed that Jesus was the one who was going to set them free.。
But they had seen the events of Jerusalem.。
They had seen what had taken place at his trial.。
And then they'd seen him nailed at that cross.。
And for them, it was kind of like evil had just won again, that evil was making its mark。
on the people once again.。
The disciples thought that there was hope with the Messiah, but that hope had been cut。
off.。
And it was like this darkness and this blackness of this evil death had now descended upon。
them.。
I mean, they really believed that Jesus was going to set them free.。
But now they're facing the reality that once again, the empire had won, and there was nothing。
that they could do about it.。
A canvas of blackness.。
And whilst those disciples are hiding behind those doors, and they're wondering what's。
next, something absolutely glorious happens.。
It's subtle and quiet at first.。
No one expects that it happens.。
But Jesus, in shedding of his blood on that cross, begins to transform and change everything.。
That moment that seems to be disregarded by the canvas of blackness around it, actually。
is the moment when everything in history pivots and change, that in the blood that was shed。
on the cross, atonement was going to come for everyone's sin, that all of the world。
would be set free again, because Jesus had done what he'd always said he was going to。
do.。
He was going to give up his life on behalf of his friends.。
And that breakthrough moment creates such hope for the world.。
The Bible tells us that the wages of sin is death, but the gift of life is eternal life。
in Christ Jesus.。
One man's sacrifice for everybody's freedom.。
I mean, it's almost like Jesus's blood then covers across everything else, that blackness。
that was there suddenly now finds itself disappearing.。
And instead, here comes his blood, and his blood begins to speak of a louder story.。
His blood covers over everything that was black before it, like his blood is the thing。
that actually is going to bring all of that redemption, all of that hope, everything that。
the disciples had longed for, it is actually going to take place.。
His blood for the redemption of you and me.。
Friday and Saturday turn into Sunday, the third day.。
And on this day, the women gather towards the tomb.。
They have their anointing oil, wanting to anoint his body.。
And they get to the tomb, and the stone is rolled away.。
And as they enter in, they don't see his body, but they see somebody standing there, and。
an angel comes to them.。
And he says, "Why are you looking for the living amongst the dead?。
For he's not here.。
He is risen."。
I mean, there's this proclamation of the resurrection, and the women are beginning to comprehend。
what is just taking place, that if Jesus is risen, then death is not the last say.。
And if death isn't the last say, then perhaps sin is no longer going to be the thing that。
will hold us back.。
Perhaps in this glorious moment of the resurrection, there now is a new story.。
Maybe a new colour gets to go over all the earth.。
Maybe now there is hope.。
Now there is something that we can believe in, something that we can hope for, that perhaps。
the empire and the darkness around us will not win.。
Perhaps indeed everybody can come to a saving knowledge of Jesus.。
The women are filled with hope and begin to tell the story of the resurrection to the。
men.。
And the despondent disciples of Saturday, they become the people of resurrection Sunday.。
Jesus appears to them, and he begins to show them his hands.。
He shows them where he has those scars on his hands and in his side.。
He invites them into his suffering so they could understand his new glory, that he has。
risen, that he is alive.。
And the disciples begin to realise that, hang on, if Jesus is alive, it means that that。
canvas of blackness, it means that the death that is all around them does not have that。
final say.。
It means actually that God is not going to wipe away that canvas and start afresh, but。
he's actually going to come and redeem from within that darkness.。
That new hope and new life could begin to rise up.。
And the disciples see that the resurrection is not about looking back to an empty tomb.。
The resurrection is about moving forward into the purposes and promises of God in this moment。
now and in all the moments in the future.。
The disciples begin to understand that resurrection is not just about life after death.。
Resurrection is also about life before death.。
That what we do right now matters.。
That if Jesus is alive, if death is defeated, if sin is overcome, then no matter how dark。
the world might feel, there is still hope.。
So the disciples begin to believe that they could stand before the darkness around them。
and begin to paint a new work of art.。
That God, if he is redeeming from within, then they can be a part of that redemption。
story that as the people of the resurrection, they can begin to bring hope.。
And so we see this amazing thing.。
The disciples begin to go, "Hey, we need to tell people about Jesus.。
We need to paint a new story.。
We want people to see and to know his resurrection power.。
We want the blood of God to be poured out onto everybody."。
And they begin to celebrate in the glory that that brings.。
Not only that, but they know that no matter what might happen with the empire around them,。
they no matter what persecution might come to them, where they were afraid and despondent。
behind doors before, now they can stand before the empire and find joy in the persecution。
because they know that the persecution is not the end.。
Not only that, but together they begin to say, "Hey, maybe we can share our resources.。
We can begin to live in a completely new way that perhaps together we might be able to。
celebrate in the beauty of no one in our community ever being without anything."。
And with that, they have the courage to stand before the darkness of empire and speak truth。
to power with love and grace, say, "It is God who is worth more than man.。
And I will obey God no matter what humanity might throw at me.。
Oh, the joy of a resurrected group of disciples."。
And here's the amazing thing.。
It wasn't just the disciples that were the people of the resurrection.。
We, the church today, are also the people of the resurrection.。
It is the same too for us.。
Paul would write that the same spirit that actually brought Jesus into resurrection,。
that same spirit is alive in us, in me, in you.。
We are a resurrection people filled with the Spirit of God.。
And because that is the case, we too can stand before the darkness around us.。
And I don't know about you, but there's a lot of darkness in our world still today.。
I mean, we've been facing this global pandemic and we still don't know when we might emerge。
fully as a human race from it.。
Right here in this city, we've been dealing with political and social unrest and all that。
that brings to us, all the fear that has been created within us.。
Or take a look at the global conversations that are happening right now with all of the。
racism we're seeing, with the increase in violence around the world, with gender inequality。
still rife, with injustices everywhere.。
And we can see that the canvas of darkness is broad and wide for us too.。
And we might be forgiven for thinking that maybe like the despondent disciples on Saturday,。
we should just make those walls a little bit higher in our churches and just hide behind。
that and just pray and hope that Jesus would come back soon.。
No, Easter is a proclamation that the walls of our churches must come down.。
Easter is the invitation into the reality that we are infused with the resurrection。
Spirit of God.。
And because we are, we can also stand before the darkness around us of our day and begin。
to paint the colours of the resurrection filled by God's leading to be His new work of art。
in this world.。
A work of art that invites people, that tells people that every moment counts.。
Everything we do now matters.。
Every kind word we bring, every encouragement we speak out, every act of love as Christians。
that we bring to our neighbours around it, all of it is beginning to paint the colours。
of resurrection hope on the darkness around us.。
So think about this.。
Think about where we are in this world.。
Imagine what it would be like for us as a global church to stand before this ongoing。
pandemic and say, no matter what the worst of the world could throw at us, we're never。
going to be socially distant from the one who can change it all.。
Or imagine what it's like for us to begin to believe that we can take the gospel into。
the darkest of places, the hardest of places, the places that overwhelm us and like those。
disciples not allow persecution or fear to hold us back.。
Or how about this, that as Christians we know we are the imago Dei, the beauty of the image。
of God, not just in us Christians but in all humanity, all humans created in His image。
and therefore there is no race, no diversity, no background, no sexuality that is beyond。
the hope of the redemption of Christ and that perhaps like the disciples we might decide。
that it's our time, even amongst the crip of empire and the creeping of totalitarianism。
in our world today, that we might stand up for the gospel, look injustice in its face。
and say justice is on the heart of God and we the people of the resurrection, we can。
make a difference.。
I mean it's just such a profound thought that Easter doesn't make us look back to an empty。
tomb but it fills us and it sets us free.。
We are the people of the resurrection.。
Now note what I say that the people of the resurrection, not the person of the resurrection.。
We don't do this alone, we don't have to paint in our own strength, we get to do it as part。
of a wider community, we get to do it as the body of Christ and because we're the body。
of Christ we get to come together across our age groups and our diversity and our different。
cultures and our backgrounds and we get to take the individual palettes of paint that。
God has given us and we dip our fingers into there and we say we're going to use our gifts。
and all the things that God has given us for His glory, that the unique thing that is in。
my life and the unique sphere of influence around me that we as the body of Christ can。
work together to see God's redemption and history of His salvation come to so many people。
that we can look into the darkness together and say there is still hope.。
So think about this for you.。
Where is it that you might be able to paint the colours of the resurrection on the darkness。
around you now?。
What is in your hands?。
What gifts have been placed upon you?。
Maybe there are personal relationships that you can take to the next level this year to。
bring the gospel to people that need it most.。
Maybe God's blessed you with resources, whether that's energy or time or finances, and you。
can use those resources to help those that are vulnerable in your community.。
Or maybe there's a justice issue in your neighbourhood or in your city where you can stand up and。
say something about the gospel and how it relates to that justice issue and be a voice。
for those that need it the most, that you might stand up and speak proudly of what the。
kingdom of God is doing in this hour.。
See, the beauty of being the people of the resurrection, having that spirit living in。
us, is that it tells us that no one and nothing is beyond God's ability to restore and renew。
and set free.。
What an encouraging story that is.。
You know, just three days before Jesus was killed on that cross, He gathered His disciples。
in the temple courts and He said to them, "Destroy this temple and I will rebuild it。
in three days," speaking metaphorically about His body.。
And He said to the disciples, "Do you believe this?"。
And I believe that's the question that sits over us as the global church right now, that。
God would say to us, "Do we really believe that He has been raised from the dead?"。
Because if we do, it means that God is not getting rid of all of this stuff, but He's。
actually recreating from within.。
It means that He's inviting us to reimagine the renewal of all things.。
It means that that spirit that raised Jesus from the dead is alive in us.。
And if it's alive in us, then we have something to say to the darkness around us, that we。
can use our gifts and our voice and our energies and our love to begin to spread the gospel。
in new and profound ways that can truly change things.。
We are the people of the resurrection.。
We must roll up our sleeves, grab our paint and get our hands messy.。
The question you have to ask yourself is this, "Do you really believe that Jesus has been。
raised from the dead?"。
Because if you do, it's time.。
[Music]。
Church, it is time.。
It's time right now for me to challenge you to respond to what you've just watched and。
what you've just encountered in the story of the resurrection.。
And I want to speak specifically to us as the Vine Church.。
You know, I think this is such an important moment in Hong Kong's history.。
I think this is such an important moment in 2021 and the world in which we are in, where。
there's no longer any time for any bystanders.。
There's no longer any time for Christians just to kind of attend church and kind of。
get on with their normal lives.。
I think now more than ever, Christ is looking for a church that's willing to stand up.。
He's looking for a church that's willing to rise up and say, "You know what?。
God has given me in the little ways that he has gifts and ideas and creativity and thoughts.。
And in my profession, in my workplace, as a mother to my children, as a leader in the。
place that God has me, whatever it might be and however it might manifest, you carry something."。
Just like that palette of paint that is in your hand.。
And this is the moment where Jesus is suffering on that cross and all of that side of things,。
where all that pain that he paid for the price of our sin and the power and the beauty of。
his resurrection.。
It was all for, I think, this moment where we can stand in the world right now and take。
that paint that he has given us as the body of Christ and begin to show the resurrection。
work of art on the darkness around us.。
Behind me right now is that exact painting that I made on that day.。
It's right there.。
And it's there to remind me and to remind you that we have some work to do.。
That because this is Easter, we don't just celebrate Jesus's resurrection.。
We also challenge ourselves for resurrection in our hearts and our lives today too.。
That if Paul is right, that if this same spirit is in us, then it is our invitation to roll。
up our sleeves, grab that paint, get our hands messy.。
So I want to speak into you right now, wherever it is that you're watching this.。
Perhaps your heart's just beating a little bit faster because the Holy Spirit's beginning。
to say to you, "Now is your time.。
It's your time to rise up again with the colors of hope that only Christ can bring and。
begin to speak of life again in the world that's around you."。
It'll look different for every single one of us.。
And that's the beauty and the power of the body of Christ.。
It looks different for you than it would for me.。
But there's some darkness that you are being called by the Spirit of God to stand before。
right now and say, "This darkness doesn't get the final say."。
That spirit is rising up in us as a church right now.。
And I know the things that hold us back from doing it.。
Thinking that we're not enough, thinking that we're inadequate, fear perhaps of what others。
might think, perhaps just that sense of despondency like we've all been feeling during this pandemic.。
There are lots of different excuses that we can have for not being the people of the resurrection。
right now.。
But God would stand before the global church and I think bring a clarion call to us today。
and say, "Will you stand up?"。
We don't do it in our own strength.。
We do it by that spirit in us.。
And that's what I want to pray for.。
If you're watching this right now, if you're part of the vine, if this is speaking to you,。
I want to pray that the Spirit of God would meet you in this moment and help you to stand。
up in the ways that Christ is calling you to do.。
And if you want to respond to that, I want to invite you to do something, whether you're。
in your home, whether you're on transport right now, wherever it might be.。
But if you're like, "This is me.。
I want to take another stand in 2021.。
I want to paint the colors of resurrection hope on the darkness around me."。
I want to encourage you just to open your hands where you are right now.。
There's nothing special in that per se.。
It's like a symbolic way of saying to God, "My heart is open before you."。
And in doing that, I believe that we then welcome the Spirit, that resurrection power。
to be in us again.。
So if you'll join me, if that's speaking to you, would you just open your hands as I pray。
for us?。
Father, I pray over every person at the Vine Church right now who's watching this, whose。
hands are open, whose heart is open, who's saying, "Yeah, we don't want to just be a。
church that gathers on a Sunday, has a holy huddle, does our thing, and doesn't have any。
impact in the world around us."。
No, we believe that you're bringing your power on earth as it is in heaven.。
We believe that justice sits in your heart.。
We believe that resurrection power is also in us.。
And so, Lord, we pray that the walls would come down in our church, Lord.。
And we pray that we would be able to walk out the power of the resurrection in our workplaces,。
our families, our schools, in the places that need it the most, Lord.。
And so for every person whose hands are open right now, who's declaring, "This is me.。
This is my journey.。
This is my story.。
I want to live out the resurrection more in the rest of this year than I have ever。
done so in my life."。
Lord, their hands are open.。
I pray that your Spirit would come.。
I pray it's your Spirit that infuses us.。
It's your Spirit that inspires us.。
Would you move upon your people right now in the name of Jesus?。
And I want to speak just briefly also to some people here right now.。
Perhaps you don't know Jesus.。
Perhaps a friend invited you to watch this broadcast.。
Perhaps you're watching it live in the moment or you're watching it at some other time.。
And you're watching this and you've heard about Jesus, but you've never had that personal。
relationship with Him.。
You've never really understood fully what He's done for you.。
And you've just watched that message and you've just seen something in that creativity.。
And there's something that's come alive for you.。
There's an invitation now for you to also respond.。
See, I believe that Christ is at work right now opening up some hearts to this message,。
the message of hope and the message of ESA that comes for us in this time.。
If that's you, we want you to reach out to us and to respond.。
You know, here at The Vine, we dedicate ourselves to wanting to help you journey in your relationship。
with Jesus, whatever that might look like for you.。
And if you're here and you're saying, "Hey, I want to find out more about this.。
I don't fully understand it.。
I kind of like the painting and the creativity, but I don't fully get it.。
But there's something in my heart that's saying, I want to learn more.。
I want to know something more about this Jesus."。
We want to connect with you and we want to tell you a bit more about it.。
So the way to do that right now on the screen is a little Connect card.。
You can scan that QR code right now.。
That'll take you to a website page where we'll just want you to fill in some of your personal。
details and we'll have a pastor reach out to you this week.。
He's going to follow up with you on a one-on-one basis to share something of the gospel with。
you to find out what it is that you want to learn about Jesus.。
And we're going to make the time to do that because we so believe in the story that we've。
been talking about and we believe it can really change your life.。
We can believe it can really turn you and change you around into new hope this year.。
And so we want to tell you more about that story, tell you what it means to be a Christian,。
how you can become a Christian, how you can begin to live that daily lifestyle of worship。
of God.。
We want to do that with you.。
So scan that code, fill in that form, take a moment to do it.。
I want to encourage you, please take a moment to do it.。
You're thinking, "Hey, I would love to learn more about Jesus."。
That's the way to do it.。
We will follow up with you and connect with you and we can't wait to meet you and to tell。
you more about the gospel, this good news of who Jesus is for you personally.。
And one of the things that we've created at The Vine is a chance for everybody to respond。
and to learn more.。
There's this amazing course called the Alpha Course.。
It was started so many years ago out of a church in the UK, and we get the great privilege。
of hosting that course on a regular basis.。
We're going to be launching Alpha next Sunday.。
That's April 11th at 3 p.m.。
And Alpha is designed to invite you if you don't know Jesus and you're not too sure,。
but you're like, "I want to find out a little bit more about what Christians believe.。
I want to know a little bit more about what the Bible has to say about God and about life."。
Alpha is designed to help you with that.。
And so I want to really strongly encourage you to lean into Alpha.。
If you're going to fill in that form, maybe also think about connecting with us next Sunday。
at three o'clock, and it will be a great way for us to help you to understand a little。
bit more about all of this kind of painting stuff.。
It's not just a nice creative sermon.。
It actually is a life-changing idea, a life-changing reality of relationship with Jesus.。
And so whether it's filling in the form or coming to Alpha next week, we really hope。
that you'll connect with us.。
And for all of us, we get to now respond to this message in celebration, in song, in joy。
together.。
So let me pray for us as we just take some time to allow what I've been talking about。
in that message to really soak on us.。
Father, as we come into this response in worship, we do so with our hearts opened now to the。
desire for more resurrection power in us, so we can take the palettes of paints that。
are in our hands.。
And Lords, I pray that as we worship now, you'll speak to everybody watching this about。
what it is that you've gifted them with, that they can contribute to the work of art that。
you're creating in this world.。
And we thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, "Amen."。
Amen.。
Amen.。
(upbeat music)。
