Amen.。
Amen.。
Hey, can we thank our worship team as always?。
Thanks guys so much.。
Have a seat, have a seat.。
I'm super excited today because we get to hear from a long friend of mine, a long-term。
friend of mine who's been someone that I kind of grew up with really here in Hong Kong,。
which is kind of a rare thing to say in Hong Kong when it's a city of such transition.。
But Jason and I grew up in this city together.。
I'm going to invite him.。
Come on up, Jason.。
We're going to be talking together as he comes.。
Jason may be well known and familiar to many of you.。
We kind of met when we were, I don't know, like 15, 16 or so.。
You were 15, 16.。
I was a little bit older.。
Don't, by the way, don't let his cute little young face fool you.。
We're about, we're not quite the same age.。
I'm a little bit older, but we're similar in age.。
Okay.。
He just, he just has that, he has that gift and that anointing to look young, forever。
young.。
Thank you.。
Yes, that's me.。
So Jason, Jason and I are families.。
We're together in the same church way, way, way back in the day.。
And we've had the joy of knowing each other and ministering together and alongside of。
each other for many years.。
We were both in banking for quite a few years.。
We both then became pastors here in the city.。
Him and his wife, Juliana, lead a great church in Hong Kong called Round Table Church.。
And then more recently, Jason has taken up a role with Mother's Choice, an organization。
that many of you know is very close to my heart, having had a big impact in my life.。
And I have the privilege of serving on the board there.。
Jason is one of the directors of Mother's Choice, and it is a wonderful thing to have。
him with us.。
He's going to be sharing today on God's heart for adoption and the care of orphans, because。
November is Adoption Awareness Month.。
And I know that this message is challenging.。
It's open.。
It is one that I believe is a heart message for us as a church community.。
So would you stretch out your hands as we pray for Jason?。
Father, we're so grateful for what you're doing in Jason and Juliana's lives here in。
Hong Kong, for the legacy of their family, for the ministry that is upon them.。
And Lord, for how you've led Jason into this work with Mother's Choice and really his long-term。
heart for the topic that he's talking about today.。
Lord, in many ways, this is his life message, what he's dedicated his own life to and what。
he's believing many churches in this city can open their hearts to.。
So Lord, as he preaches and teaches out of your Word, would you challenge our hearts?。
Lord, we don't want to be that hard soil for the seed.。
We want to be soft soil to receive and to grow what it is that you want to plant inside。
of us today.。
So we just pray, come Holy Spirit, speak to us.。
And we thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says?。
- Amen.。
- Amen.。
- Amen.。
Oh, thank you.。
Thank you so much.。
Awesome.。
Yes, like Andrew said, it is very, very good to be home.。
I feel like this is a second home for me.。
I spent many of my childhood years going to Sunday school here, growing up here.。
And so it definitely feels like home and it's good to be back.。
So thank you for that.。
Welcome.。
And yes, my last name...。
Oh, is the PowerPoint up yet?。
Can I get the PowerPoint?。
He's young, so I can't help it.。
Forever young.。
All right.。
I'm not...。
I'm in my late 40s.。
I'm getting close to Andrew over here, 48 this year.。
And so, but I tell you, part of the secret is also because my wife and I, we have seven。
kids.。
And so having a lot of kids around keeps us young.。
If you don't believe it, you can try it out.。
All right.。
But if it doesn't work out for you, it's not my fault.。
Okay?。
It's not my fault.。
All right.。
So yes, we have seven kids and we love them all.。
As you know, it's not okay to have favorites.。
We don't have any favorites.。
But I must say that the cutest one is definitely little Lily, our two and a half year...。
I know.。
Everyone say, "Aww."。
Yeah.。
Aww.。
Yeah.。
She's super duper cute.。
And definitely she knows it.。
She knows how cute she is.。
Okay?。
Like definitely takes advantage of that, I think.。
But the reason that I'm just really blessed by her, her presence, is just the way that。
she's so joyful and free all the time.。
Just somehow there's this freedom and joy about her that is so natural.。
And it's really infectious.。
We find that it's something that actually I envy and many people envy.。
Right?。
I mean, just that childlike wonder.。
Right?。
And there's something beautiful about that.。
There's something divine about that.。
And the question is sometimes I think, you know, "Why?"。
Right?。
We don't see that as we get older and, you know, grow up in Hong Kong, this busy place。
full of pressure.。
Right?。
And why is it that she's able to be so free and joyful?。
And okay, now, first of all, disclaimer, I don't have a PhD in child development or anything。
like that.。
All right?。
But as I look at scripture and at science, it's actually pretty straightforward.。
Right?。
I believe the reason why Lily, one of the main reasons why Lily is so joyful and free。
is because she is well-loved, protected, and championed, but not just by her biological。
family, right, but actually by a whole village of people.。
As you can see here, this is our little village, our community.。
A group of us there actually live in the same building together intentionally on purpose.。
Okay?。
And so it seems like to me that she is just like Jesus when he was baptized.。
If you remember Matthew 3:17, "The heavens opened," and then Jesus heard the Father's。
voice saying, "This is my Son whom I love.。
With Him, I'm well-pleased."。
That somehow Lily, growing up in this type of a community, she is constantly hearing。
that voice, but from a chorus of voices, just reminding her, affirming her of her true identity.。
"Lily, you are a beloved daughter of God, and with you, we are all well-pleased."。
Now through my work at Mother's Choice, I have met other kids in Hong Kong who have。
a very different experience than Lily, unfortunately.。
I'll just mention two very, very quickly.。
My wife and I, our family, we helped babysit a little boy, a baby boy who has a single。
mom, and so this is through Safe Families, Mother's Choice.。
And when this baby first came to us, he was not even a year old.。
And one of the things we noticed right away was just how small he was, tiny.。
And we also saw his clothes, it was dirty, stains, and he smelled like smoke.。
And we looked at his skin, he was covered in eczema, I guess wasn't really well-treated,。
and so many of his joints, it was scratched to the point where it was just bleeding.。
And of course, that was just, to us, just heartbreaking.。
And then we just noticed that even the littlest sound or the littlest noise would just really。
scare this little baby, and he would just cry and cry and cry, and just uncontrollably.。
But the thing that was probably most heart-wrenching was we noticed that he was always holding。
his thumb very tightly like this, his left thumb, and he couldn't, and when you try to。
take it out and engage this thumb, it was a loose kind of limp, and it's as if he couldn't。
use it at all.。
And so of course, we told our social worker, she spoke to the therapist, got it checked。
out, and we found out that it's because this little baby was stressed.。
It's because he was stressed, anxious.。
Stress and anxious.。
And it just blew our minds.。
We were thinking, yes, we know a lot of Hong Kong people, young people struggle with depression,。
struggle with mental health issues, but a one-year-old with mental health issues, stressed,。
anxious, that was for us very heartbreaking.。
Another couple that's close friends with ours that was also fostering from Mother's Choice,。
this was a couple years back, told us about their little boy that came in that was about。
a year and a half when he came into their home, and one of the first things they noticed。
was that in between meals, this little boy would be rummaging through the trash can.。
Maybe he was hungry, maybe he was thinking that he had to take care of himself, or he。
was worried maybe about his next meal.。
I don't know.。
They also discovered that he would hide or put away, store away bits of his meal in different。
parts of the home, like he was hoarding his meals.。
Again, some fear deep in his heart, not even two years old yet, worrying about his next。
meal.。
And again, we just thought, that is not right.。
That is not God's design.。
Something is very, very wrong.。
And of course, there are many more vulnerable, abused, and abandoned children in Hong Kong.。
I don't have time to go through all the stats right now, but I'll just highlight in particular。
that there are over 4,000 kids right now stuck in institutional care, and they stay there。
for on average five years or more.。
So think about this.。
The most important years, the most formative years of their lives, between zero and five,。
or those early stages of development, they are stuck in an institution with no access。
to a safe, loving, and permanent family.。
And again, like I said, Scripture and science shows us that that does not set up a child。
to thrive, but only to survive at best.。
Also there are another 600 to 700 kids right now, children, babies, that are...they're。
born, but they're still spending the first year of their lives, the whole year of their。
lives, the first year in the hospital crib, because they have nowhere to go.。
They have no family, a safe place for them to go to.。
And so the whole first year of their lives, they are just growing up inside a hospital。
crib.。
I don't know if you've ever done this, but I've tried to put myself in their shoes just。
to think or try to feel what these children are feeling.。
The two stories I mentioned, these children who are stuck in the institution, how do they。
feel?。
What are they thinking?。
I'm just guessing, but I'm thinking that they're feeling and thinking, "Where is my mom?。
Where is my dad?。
How come no one wants me?。
How come all the other children have families, but I don't have one?。
Is it because I'm not good enough?。
Is it because I'm not smart enough?。
I'm not pretty enough?。
Maybe there's something I can do differently?。
Why?。
Why is it that no one wants me?"。
Eventually, as they hear that script over and over again, I'm sure they begin to internalize。
a horrible lie.。
"I must be a mistake.。
I'm not worthy of love.。
I'm a piece of trash.。
I don't deserve to be loved.。
I don't deserve to live."。
These are horrible lies and attacks from the pit of hell, from the enemy to steal, kill,。
and destroy our families and the next generation.。
This is what the enemy has been doing.。
He's not original.。
He's been doing this from the beginning, since Genesis, trying to destroy, rip apart, tear。
down families and the next generation.。
So how do you feel about this?。
What the enemy has been doing, working overtime to destroy families in Hong Kong, to tear。
down the next generation?。
What if someone...。
Maybe if I brought a little closer to home, what if someone walked into your home this。
afternoon and began to attack your kids?。
Or walked into your Sunday school here at the Vine and began to physically or verbally。
scream abuse at the Vine kids?。
Would you allow it?。
Would you stand by and do nothing?。
What would you do?。
I think more importantly than just what these children feel or what we feel is to ask, "What。
does our Heavenly Father feel about all this?。
How does He feel?"。
The Scriptures tell us that He sees and knows every child because He lovingly formed every。
child, even the ones that are invisible to society, even the ones that are marginalized。
and forgotten.。
He has lovingly formed with His own two hands every child, and He is their true Father.。
And therefore, He knows them by name.。
For many of us, we just see statistics, but He knows them by name because He gave them。
that name.。
He gave them that life, and He has an amazing future for them.。
And so that's why I believe our Father's heart is broken and burning.。
He has a broken heart for these children, and His heart is burning with anger that anyone。
would dare to even touch or mistreat or hurt one of these innocent little ones that are。
His very own.。
And this is why we see Scriptures like this.。
In Exodus 22, 22 to 24, the Lord says, "You must not exploit a widow or an orphan.。
If you exploit them in any way and they cry out to Me, then I will certainly hear their。
cry.。
My anger will blaze against you, and I will kill you with the sword.。
Then your wives will be widows and your children fatherless."。
Okay, it's pretty intense, right?。
I mean, it's pretty intense, not your typical...you don't share this verse in Sunday school, right?。
Okay, so this is pretty intense, but it is what it is.。
This is what the Lord is saying to His people.。
In Isaiah 1, 15 to 17, through the prophet Isaiah to the people of Judah, again, the。
Lord says, "When you lift up your hands in prayer, I will not look.。
Though you offer many prayers, I will not listen, for your hands are covered with the。
blood of innocent victims."。
Wow.。
So basically, He's telling, you know, if it were today, He's like, "Hey, you know, you're。
praying, you're doing all these different spiritual things."。
He even mentions in verse 13 and 14, you know, "You're having all these gatherings, you're。
going to church, you're doing all these spiritual things, but stop those things.。
I don't want those things because your hands are dirty and unclean."。
So He says, "This is what you need to do," verse 17, "Learn to do good.。
Seek justice.。
Help the oppressed.。
Defend the cause of orphans.。
Fight for the rights of widows."。
Before the Lord, it is not enough just to ask, "How do we avoid evil?。
How do we resist evil?"。
That's not enough.。
Before the Lord, He's asking us to go a step further and ask, "How can we do good?"。
Edmund Burke once said, "The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to。
do nothing."。
Let me repeat that again.。
The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men and women to do nothing.。
This is something that I ask myself constantly.。
Am I learning to do good or am I just avoiding evil?。
Now in case you're thinking, "Jason, these are all very Old Testament, kind of wrath。
of God kind of scriptures.。
And we're in the New Testament now.。
This is a time of grace.。
Church needs to be lovey-dovey and warm and everyone feels comfortable."。
So in the New Testament, again, there are many more scriptures.。
I don't have enough time to go through all of them.。
But just in case you're wondering, the Lord is actually even more direct and black and。
white here.。
In James 1:27, "Pure and genuine religion in the sight of God the Father means caring。
for orphans and widows in their distress," right?。
And refusing to let the world corrupt you.。
Don't you love it when God gives us a formula?。
Right?。
Taking care of orphans and widows in their distress.。
And guess what?。
Your faith then, your walk with God will be pure and genuine.。
So my question is, again, it's not just to you, it's to me, it's to all of us.。
I think it's good for us to constantly reflect and review before the Lord in humility and。
also His grace, but His truth as well.。
Do we feel what He feels?。
Do we care about what God cares about?。
And is our faith and our Christianity pure and genuine according to His definition?。
That is a question I want to ask all of us today.。
Now, thank heavens that our God is in the business of making all things right and all。
things new.。
He is the God of redemption.。
That means He doesn't just have a broken heart, He's not just, you know, burning with anger。
about this issue, He has a plan.。
He has a plan to redeem and to make all things right, to rescue and to redeem the orphan,。
the fatherless, the widow, the refugee.。
But is His solution, is His plan more institutional care?。
Is it hiring more social workers?。
Is it starting up more NGOs like Mother's Choice?。
Now obviously all those things are good and have great value, right?。
They play an important role in the care of orphans and widows and the fatherless.。
But God's design, God's intention was never for those to be the primary instrument for。
redemption and the transformation of the fatherless, the orphan and the widow.。
So what is?。
Now, today, I don't have time to go through this whole story, this whole passage, but。
I encourage you to read it.。
It's very short.。
It's only 13 verses, all right?。
Second Samuel 9, 1 to 11.。
But I will just give you the context for it, all right?。
Basically, David has established his throne now and he's wondering how he can help out。
because of God's kindness.。
And he thinks about his friend Jonathan, which is actually the son of his arch enemy, King。
Saul, right?。
Which he has just defeated.。
And he finds out that there is an orphan, a crippled orphan named Mephibosheth, who。
is the grandson of Saul, okay?。
And so he invites Mephibosheth to the palace because he wants to show God's kindness to。
him.。
And so let's see what happens, okay?。
So we see...。
Actually, I'll just start here.。
Oh, you're right.。
There we go.。
Okay, yeah.。
One more?。
Okay, there we go.。
All right.。
So we see is that he calls in Mephibosheth.。
And Mephibosheth, in the verse before, he says he's afraid.。
He's very afraid.。
He doesn't know what's going to happen.。
And he says, "I am just a dead dog.。
Why would you come?。
Why would you find me?。
Why would you ask me to come?"。
And basically, David says, "I want to protect you.。
I want to provide for you."。
And he tells one of the Saul's servants, Ziba, he says, "From now on, you're going to take。
care of Mephibosheth."。
And he gives back to Mephibosheth all of Saul's land and that inheritance.。
It's a huge, huge amount.。
So this is costing David a lot.。
It's coming at a high cost to David to provide for Mephibosheth.。
And on top of that, he's taking a huge risk.。
Is that right?。
Because this is the grandson of his archenemy.。
If you've seen those movies or those TV shows, right, those K-dramas, you know, this is a。
recipe for failure, right?。
Something bad's going to happen, and then he's going to potentially lose his throne.。
You know, this is a very dangerous, risky thing that David is doing.。
But we see the most important thing that David does, the most significant thing that he does。
isn't just providing food, giving him a place to live.。
Is that David, as we can see here, and I want to read starting from verse 11, right?。
"Ziba replied, 'Yes, my lord, the king, I'm your servant.。
I will do all these things you have commanded, providing for him, taking care of him.'。
But from that time on, Mephibosheth ate regularly at David's table like one of the king's own。
sons."。
This is the key.。
It wasn't just provision and protection.。
David provided a family.。
David made room at his table and treated Mephibosheth, this crippled orphan who was his enemy's grandson,。
like his very own son.。
And so when we fast forward later on in 2 Samuel chapter 19, again, don't have time。
today, but this is the epilogue for this story where you will see that Mephibosheth, after。
being rooted in a safe and loving family for several years, when it comes time to this...there's。
a crisis in his life where he is being scammed, cheated by Ziba, he has become a whole new。
person.。
He says, "I don't need the wealth and the kingdom and all those different things.。
All I care about is my relationship with David, my father.。
That's all that matters."。
And so you see that through family, through a loving family, Mephibosheth, he's been fully。
redeemed from a dead dog.。
That's what he saw himself as.。
He called himself a dead dog, less than even a human, from a dead dog to a true son.。
And guys, I just want to highlight, this is not a parable.。
This is not a metaphor, okay?。
This really happened.。
This really happened.。
So it's important we don't just spiritualize this and see it as a spiritual lesson, but。
this is something that God actually calls us to do.。
And how do I know that?。
Because this is who He is.。
He is the father to the fatherless.。
He is a defender of widows.。
He puts the lonely in families.。
This is who our God is.。
And so His DNA is in us, and He calls us to also express that out in some way, shape,。
or form in our daily lives, in our churches.。
So God's plan is to restore broken family through His family, this family, the people。
of God.。
And this is important.。
I want to make this very, very clear because we're living in Hong Kong, and a lot of us。
come from a Hong Kong or Chinese culture.。
God never meant for the family to be an exclusive club where we just protect our own and keep。
out the unwanted, the unsightly, right, the unmentionables.。
No, God ordained the family to be an oasis, to be a refuge where we welcome and protect。
the most vulnerable, treating them like our very own sons and daughters, treating them。
like our very own family.。
And so I believe that the Lord wants to renew our minds today and renew our hearts today。
so that we won't see family just as like a bunker, right, to protect, to stay safe, but。
to see it as a banqueting table where there's always room for the most vulnerable, right,。
just like David making room at his table for Mephibosheth.。
Now I think the story of Mephibosheth is great, you know, it's a powerful story, but it can。
be easy to treat it like a kind of like a fairy tale because it's, you know, it's just。
like in the Old Testament, you know, you can put it in the category of like, you know,。
like David and Goliath or, you know, any other, you know, Moses crossing the Red Sea.。
Yeah, that's a great kind of children's, you know, Sunday school kind of fairy tale type。
of thing.。
You know, you might think it's just not that relevant to us here in Hong Kong today because。
Jason, you know, Hong Kong, we're not living in a palace like David, we're living in apartments。
and, you know, it's a lot more, you know, busy and, you know, it's just really different。
in Hong Kong.。
So this is a very, it's not that relevant.。
And so I want to share one more story that is hopefully closer to home and it's a Hong。
Kong story, right?。
And so this story, it started in 1949, the late 1940s.。
And so you see here, there's this boy, that's his mom, and you can see that the father is。
missing because the father left the family right at birth.。
And so this boy never met his dad until he was 18.。
And you can imagine the mother was so angry and disappointed, hurt, she didn't even want。
to look at this boy's face.。
She couldn't look at him.。
She didn't want to take care of him because it just reminded her of her own rejection,。
her own disappointment, her own failure.。
And so at the age of five, she sent him off to boarding school in Hong Kong and that was。
it.。
He was there on his own.。
Obviously, he was your typical kind of angry youth.。
He just got into fight after fight after fight.。
He got into so much trouble with his teachers and he got into arguments all the time and。
he was just making a mess.。
And clearly that was because inside he was asking those same questions.。
Where is my mom?。
Where is my dad?。
How come no one wants me?。
How come I don't have a family?。
What's wrong with me?。
And so he got kicked out of school, not just once, but twice.。
And each time they let him back in, they felt sorry for him.。
But by the third time, they were done with him.。
They kicked him out of school for the last time.。
And so he had nowhere to go.。
He got a room at the YMCA next to the TST one, the one next to the peninsula.。
So not the peninsula, next to the peninsula.。
Next to the peninsula and a little dorm room there.。
And while he was there, he met a young couple.。
Actually, I don't think they were that young, but it's a couple.。
They were a missionary couple from New Zealand and they happened to be the general secretary。
of the YMCA at the time.。
And so they live at the YMCA.。
And so as they got to know this young man, by that time he was a preteen, they saw just。
how much brokenness was inside of him.。
How much trauma, how much darkness.。
They saw the bitterness, the anger, the rage, and they were worried about him.。
They could see that he was on a very dangerous path, that he was heading to who knows where.。
And so they decided to take him into their own home, to make room at their table for。
this young man.。
They also taught him English.。
They also gave him a job at the YMCA as a bellboy, moving luggage around.。
And this was genius because by the end of the day, he didn't have enough energy to get。
into fights anymore.。
All right?。
Parents don't try this at home because I think it's a child protection issue now.。
You can't have your kids moving luggage around all the time.。
All right?。
But also, they took him to Sunday school every Sunday at Kowloon Union Church.。
And many seeds of the gospel were sown into this young boy's life.。
So things started to turn around for him.。
Shortly afterwards, he got into LaSalle College, one of the top boys' school in Hong Kong.。
I said one of, just in case there are any DBS boys here.。
Don't want you to leave the room.。
All right?。
So he defended, okay, one of, all right?。
And he graduated as head boy of the school, prefect.。
Okay?。
Pretty amazing.。
Then, he got into Hong Kong U Law School.。
He was part of the first graduating class of Hong Kong U Law School.。
And all his peers ended up being chief justices and starting their own law firms, graduated。
with honors.。
Then he got into Stanford Law School and also graduated with honors.。
And then went on to have an illustrious career as a lawyer, becoming one of the youngest。
partners in some of the most prestigious law firms.。
But more importantly than that, he used his expertise to help many, many churches and。
NGOs and missions agencies.。
He became one of the most kind and upright and generous men in his generation.。
He even retired early and got ordained as a pastor to continue serving the Lord, building。
His kingdom.。
And I know that this man is a good man because this man is my dad.。
That guy, that guy in the back in case you're wondering.。
I mean there's so much more to his story that I can't get in today.。
But I want to highlight.。
He and my mom, they reconciled.。
He reconciled with his dad and led him to the Lord and baptized him before he passed。
away.。
It's so beautiful, so beautiful.。
That alone is a miracle that is worth thanking the Lord for.。
And as I mentioned earlier, my dad, he was such a servant of the kingdom of God.。
He actually helped start Mother's Choice.。
Isn't that crazy?。
He helped with doing the paperwork for the Section 88 and registering the NGO.。
Things really do go, it's a full circle of blessing.。
And on top of that, what was probably most personally for me, the biggest blessing for。
my dad in this story is that he passed on to me and my wife and our family this spiritual。
inheritance, this legacy, this grace for adoption and foster care.。
And so as you can see, my wife and I and our family and our community, we've been fostering。
these two teenage brothers, they're asylum seekers as well as orphans, Fabrice and Samuel.。
I asked their permission, it's okay, they said it's okay to put their picture up.。
And we've been fostering them, they've been living with us for the last year and a half.。
And I just want to say that it's been one of the most challenging...。
That is already putting it lightly.。
I've never felt so disrespected.。
It's just been...。
Yeah, it's been tough.。
It's been very, very tough.。
But at the same time, it's been one of the most formative and fulfilling experiences。
that not just me and my wife, but our whole family and community have experienced.。
We are so grateful that God has brought them to us.。
And we remind them all the time, we tell Fabrice and Samuel all the time, "Thank you.。
Thank you for trusting us.。
Thank you for being here.。
You are a gift from God."。
And so it's really through just this one couple, this one couple who opened their hearts and。
their homes to my dad in his time of crisis, in his time of need, who made room at their。
table for him and treated him like their very own son.。
This is why I can stand before you today.。
This is why I believe that not just my dad's life and his destiny was redeemed, but our。
whole clan, our whole tribe, and all that have been blessed through my father and through。
our family, our church, our ministry, is because one couple, one family, one community said。
yes to God's heart for the fatherless, the orphan, and the widow.。
God truly can redeem not just my dad's broken story, but every broken story into a beautiful。
testimony.。
He's inviting every single one of us to be a part of taking these generational curses.。
You can imagine what would have happened to my dad and then to those after him, taking。
those generational curses and transforming them into generational blessing.。
This is what God invites all of us to be a part of.。
We all get to have a part to play in that.。
So in closing, you might be saying, "Jason, this is all very touching.。
This is all, you know, I want to help, but I just don't know if I'm ready yet to adopt。
or to foster.。
It just seems so overwhelming.。
It's such a huge step."。
And you're right.。
It is huge and overwhelming.。
It is a lot.。
And maybe it's not your portion right now or ever to adopt or foster.。
I don't know.。
That's between you and God.。
But I do know one thing, is that everyone can do something.。
We should not be trying to do everything.。
None of us should be or can do everything.。
But all of us can do something in the care of orphans and widows.。
And this is why I love this verse.。
Oh, by the way, that's a picture of my wife and I a couple of months ago.。
We got to baptize Fabrice.。
Yeah.。
A little blessing, bonus blessing.。
Yeah, that we can all rejoice in.。
But I just want to close with this quote.。
Not all of us can do great things, but all of us can do small things with great love.。
So again, you're not called to do everything.。
You can't.。
None of us can.。
That's not God's design.。
But together as a community, as a village, as God's family, we can all do something.。
And what are those things?。
Here are a few just to get you started.。
One, pray.。
This is not the last resort.。
This is the first, the middle, and the last.。
It is the work.。
It is the work because there's so much spiritual warfare involved.。
And like we love to say, the care for orphans and widows, it's not just hard work.。
It's heart work.。
We need to be in His presence.。
We need prayer.。
There's a lot of spiritual warfare.。
So please begin to pray regularly.。
Secondly, there are many ways you can come alongside adoptive families, foster families,。
families in crisis that are around you in your church community or in your neighborhood。
where you live, work, and play in your schools.。
And there's so many practical ways to help.。
Help with babysitting.。
Help with taking the kid, the baby to see the doctor.。
Help with their Chinese homework.。
All right, these are all things that in our community, many different folks, whether they're。
single, married, retired, studying, everyone's helping and doing their small part.。
And it works.。
Somehow it works.。
It's God's math.。
It's God's economy.。
Okay?。
And then the third thing is learn.。
All right, learn to do good.。
Right?。
1 John 1, 17.。
Learn to do good.。
All right?。
There are many practical ways to get involved.。
And we are actually, I believe, December 4th.。
Thursday, December 4th evening, there will be an info session where you can find out。
more very practically what are some of the services that Mother's Choice offers so that。
you can get practically involved.。
So the bottom line is this.。
We worship and serve a God who sees and loves the vulnerable.。
And He's not afraid to draw near to us in our brokenness.。
He loves us.。
He protects us.。
And then He welcomes us into His family.。
And then He invites us to do the same.。
Could we stand, please, as I close in prayer?。
Yeah, Heavenly Father, thank You that You are our good, good Father.。
But You are not only our Father.。
You are a Father to the fatherless.。
The defender of widows.。
And You put the lonely in families.。
Today God, would You help us not just to be hearers of the Word but doers of the Word.。
But we need Your help, God, because this is too difficult.。
The task is too great.。
It's not enough.。
Our own willpower, our own strength, it's not enough.。
So God, would You first touch our eyes, open our eyes, give us Your eyes to see the vulnerable,。
to see the least of these, the forgotten ones, the orphans, the widows, the refugees.。
Help us to see them and to see their pain.。
Would they no longer be invisible around us, God?。
And secondly, Lord, I pray for our hearts, God.。
Lord, would You awaken our hearts to Your heart, God, that we would hear Your heartbeat。
and feel Your heartbeat for the orphan, the fatherless, for the vulnerable.。
Forgive us, God, when we've allowed our hearts to become too hard or to become too numb.。
Lord, would You give us a new heart today?。
Breathe upon our hearts, God, that our hearts of stone would become hearts of flesh, God,。
that we could feel what You feel and love the way that You love.。
Help us, God.。
And lastly, Lord, we want to offer up the Vine Church, this whole community, this family。
of God.。
Lord, would You commission and empower this church family to rise up as a faith community。
that fathers the fatherless, that defends the widows, that puts the lonely in families。
so that many broken stories would be redeemed into beautiful testimonies.。
All for Your glory, God, and for the sake of this city and the next generation, God.。
Lord, may it be unto us as You say, "Here we are, Lord.。
Use us.。
Send us."。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
Amen.。
