So open our ears, open our hearts,。
and yeah, we just give you this time in Jesus' name, amen.。
- Thank you, and no Christmas presents。
from Promise for me this year, okay?。
All right, well good morning, it's always good。
and an honor to be together when we gather on a Sunday.。
Like Promise said, we are continuing our parable series.。
Well I grew up in a Christian home,。
you know, a third generation Christian family.。
Both sides of my parents, you know,。
my parents were also Christian, so my mama, my popo,。
both made my parents in Christian homes,。
so you know, going to church, Christian things,。
all that stuff was a big part of growing up,。
especially praying before you eat, right?。
All this, and there was one particular prayer。
that I think most Cantonese-speaking little children。
learned or taught to pray before you eat, right?。
I would not, you know, especially if grandma was there,。
you would not dare to even touch the chopsticks。
before saying this prayer, okay?。
It goes something like this.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
After you said that, then you could eat, okay?。
A translation would go something like this, okay?。
Sorry if that was triggering, by the way, all right?。
But basic translation would be something like this.。
Thank you God for this food, please bless it。
to give me a healthy body so I will listen。
and obey my parents, amen, okay?。
What listening to your parents and having to eat a meal。
has to do with, I don't know, but you know,。
they threw that in there just in case.。
I do the same with my boys now, right, so.。
(audience laughing)。
So you know, being taught to pray。
was something we grew up with.。
Now of course, these days, my faith has matured,。
and hopefully, you know, my prayers sound a bit different.。
And what I've been realizing is that learning to pray,。
though, continuing to learn how to pray,。
it's such an important part of your journey with Jesus。
as you grow in faith.。
And as I said, as we continue our series。
in the parables today, the parable we're looking at today,。
Jesus uses a very peculiar, strange,。
almost sort of a humorous story。
to teach his followers about prayer.。
Now before he gets there, though,。
he teaches his disciples how to pray.。
One thing that's quite interesting to note in the gospels。
is that one of the only things that the disciples。
ask Jesus to teach them is to teach them about prayer.。
Lord, teach us how to pray.。
Why were they so keen to learn about what prayer is?。
Well, I reckon it's probably because, you know,。
after spending a lot of time with Jesus,。
you know, they did life together.。
They were together all the time.。
And so they would have definitely seen Jesus praying.。
Right, could you imagine what it would have been like。
to just sit in the presence of Jesus。
as he was praying to his heavenly Father?。
To hear the words that he would have said, right?。
The combination of intimacy and power,。
authority, vulnerability, and affirmation。
would have been so tangible in those moments, right?。
Prayer would have been such a active,。
such a beautiful thing as Jesus was speaking to his Father.。
And so as Jesus demonstrated how to pray to his disciples,。
they caught onto this.。
And so they ask him, Jesus, Lord, teach us how to pray.。
Luke 11 tells us this.。
One day, just as Jesus had finished praying。
in a certain place, one of his disciples said to him,。
Lord, teach us how to pray,。
just as John taught his disciples.。
And so Jesus teaches them.。
This is the disciples learning from the master himself.。
And what he teaches isn't just some, you know,。
some, you know, cheap, cutesy little prayer。
you say before you eat.。
But this is a prayer that shaken the whole entire world.。
It's a prayer that's provided comfort and guidance。
and power for believers over the past 2,000 years。
and continues to do so today.。
This prayer has become a distinctive mark。
of what it means to be a follower of Jesus.。
And we often call it the Lord's Prayer,。
but I think actually a more appropriate name。
for it would be the Disciples' Prayer,。
because this is how Jesus taught his disciples,。
his followers, which means us in this room today,。
those of you who've given your life to Jesus,。
this is our prayer to him.。
This is a prayer that sits at the very heart。
of every body of Christ.。
So what did Jesus teach him?。
What are these words?。
Jesus said to them, he said this,。
when you pray, say, Father, hallowed be your name.。
Your kingdom come, give us each day our daily bread,。
forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone。
who sins against us, and lead us not into temptation.。
Now we could spend a whole other sermon series。
unpacking this prayer, seeing all the implications,。
but for today, I just want to highlight。
a few key concepts before we move on to the next part.。
Notice this, Jesus starts by addressing God as Father.。
What Jesus is doing here is he teaches us。
the primary way we are to relate to God is as a father.。
Now of course, this begs the question,。
what kind of a father is God?。
Because when it comes to our experiences。
with our earthly fathers, probably a lot of us。
in this room, many of us in this room。
will have different experience.。
Some of us have probably a great relationship。
with our fathers.。
Our fathers were there for us,。
they were our biggest cheerleaders,。
supporters, provided for us.。
That's a good father.。
But maybe some of us grew up with absent fathers.。
We never knew our dad, or maybe perhaps even a father。
that was mean or abusive to us in many different ways.。
Now of course, what Jesus wants to highlight。
is that God is the perfect father, the good father,。
the father who'd give good gifts,。
and we're gonna talk a bit more about this in a minute,。
but God is our father.。
Jesus wants to remind us of this.。
Then he says this, "Hallowed be your name.。
"Your kingdom come."。
What Jesus is trying to highlight here。
is trying to teach us that prayer。
is something bigger than ourselves.。
Prayer is about acknowledging who God is,。
that he is the creator of this world.。
He is the one who's holy.。
He is the one who set apart.。
And prayer is also about knowing that the ultimate purpose。
of Jesus coming to this earth,。
the ultimate purpose of what God is trying to do right now。
is to bring his kingdom here on this earth,。
to announce that Jesus is returning,。
to announce that God's kingdom is available。
to those who put their trust in him.。
Next he tells us this, "Give us each day our daily bread."。
This is Jesus acknowledging God as our perfect provider.。
It's actually Jesus sort of making a link。
all the way back to Exodus.。
Remember in Exodus when the Israelites were leading,。
being led out of Egypt into the desert,。
into the promised land?。
Before they got there,。
they were wandering around in the desert.。
And what did God provide for them each and every single day?。
Exactly what they needed, daily bread, provision for them.。
Jesus knows exactly what we need.。
He is our provider.。
Jesus reminds us of that.。
So we can ask him for things.。
And we're gonna talk a bit more about that。
in a minute as well.。
Then he says this, "Forgive our sins.。
"Forgive everyone who sins against us."。
What Jesus is trying to highlight here。
is he's trying to remind us that prayer。
is also about building a relationship with God。
and about us building a relationship with each other.。
You see, asking for forgiveness。
and being met with love and mercy。
is one of the greatest privileges we have。
as children of God, with God as our father.。
That every time we come to him and ask for forgiveness。
and we repent and we come to him and we say,。
"Lord, I'm sorry.。
"Forgive me.。
"I want to do better."。
We are met with love and forgiveness and mercy.。
That's God's heart for us.。
And without that,。
without God offering his forgiveness to us,。
without Jesus dying on the cross。
and his blood being poured out,。
there would be no forgiveness of sins.。
There would be no relationship.。
But because there is,。
we can have a relationship with God.。
Prayer is about relationship.。
And it's the same with each other.。
If we were always sinning against each other。
but never forgiving each other,。
that would lead to a breakdown in relationship as well.。
There would be no community。
without the forgiveness of sins with each other.。
Finally, he says this, "Lead us not into temptation."。
Prayer is also about acknowledging the need。
for God's help in our spiritual battles.。
We've been reminded a few times throughout this series。
and in recent weeks that spiritual battles。
are a part of everyday life.。
That we have an enemy trying to distract us,。
trying to destroy our relationship with Jesus.。
And prayer is one of the key ways,。
one of the best weapons we have。
against the schemes of the enemy.。
So we pray for God to protect us from evil,。
keep us away from temptation and sin.。
But there's one more thing that's important for us today.。
Notice that throughout the prayer, right,。
it's the use of plural that Jesus uses.。
It's talking about us.。
Give us this day our daily bread.。
Give us, give us, give us.。
What Jesus is trying to remind us is that。
prayer is actually about the community coming together.。
It's not just our relationship with God,。
it's our relationship with each other as well.。
So how do we build friendship?。
How do we build community?。
How do we take this prayer and apply it to our lives?。
And so with that being said, to continue our time together,。
I'm gonna invite some friends up on the stage。
to share the next part of this message with us.。
So let's welcome Emma, Jethro, and Phil.。
Where's Phil?。
All right, there we go.。
Okay, let's give them a big round of applause.。
(audience applauding)。
♪ No one told you life was gonna be this way ♪。
♪ You're gonna have to try ♪。
- Si got the message.。
Good, okay.。
Emma was thrown off by that this morning.。
It's the best show on TV, I have to say.。
Even after all these years,。
any time I put on Friends, it's always entertaining.。
I'm super excited to be together today,。
to be able to do this, and we've been talking about this。
and planning this for a while.。
Emma and Jethro, as you would have seen regularly。
on the stage, they lead us in worship week in and week out,。
but ahead of their heart and their skills and their talent。
for leading worship and their musicality,。
which probably two of the best worship leaders,。
if not in Hong Kong, maybe even the world, I would say.。
I'm not biased or anything.。
But it's really their heart for Jesus。
and their seriousness about their faith,。
their passion for the Lord that really shapes them。
as who they are.。
So I'm really appreciative of Emma and Jethro.。
And Phil, I'm not sure what Phil's doing here, but.。
(audience laughing)。
Phil leads our young adults.。
Those of you who've been baptized。
would have sat under his teaching in baptism as well.。
Phil is one of those guys who,。
when everyone else is being silly, right?。
Phil's in the office reading his Bible,。
knows in the Bible, taking notes, doing all this stuff.。
He has a heart of pure gold.。
I would trust Phil with my life, with everything.。
So I'm really glad to call him a friend as well.。
So, we've heard me talk.。
We started with talking about the Lord's Prayer,。
and that sort of sets up the tone。
for the conversation we wanna have today.。
But the parable we are looking at。
is called the parable of the friend at midnight.。
And so perhaps if you wanna start us, Phil,。
if you could read the parable to us,。
and we'll take the conversation on from there.。
- Yeah, so it starts from verse five.。
And Jesus said to them, "Suppose you have a friend,。
and you go to him at midnight and say,。
'Friend, lend me three loaves of bread.。
A friend of mine on a journey has come to me,。
and I have no food to offer him.'。
And suppose the one inside answers,。
'Don't bother me, the door is already locked,。
and my children and I are in bed.。
I can't get up and give you anything.'。
I tell you, even though he will not get up。
and give you the bread because of friendship,。
yet because of your shameless audacity,。
he will surely get up and give you as much as you need.。
And so I say to you, ask, and it will be given to you.。
Seek, and you will find.。
Knock, and a door will be opened to you.。
For everyone who asks receives,。
the one who seeks finds,。
and to the one who knocks, the door will be opened."。
- Yeah, thanks, Phil.。
So, you know, as we've been realizing through the parables,。
right, it's always a very vivid imagery.。
You can imagine this being played out like a movie, right,。
like a scene that's being described very vividly,。
all the characters, all the stories.。
But it's often easy, you know,。
I think I find parables easy to understand sometimes。
if we sort of put it into our own context, right,。
insert ourselves into the story.。
So, Phil, let's say, for example,。
this happened to you, all right?。
It's just been, it's been Saturday night,。
you know, 180 is over, you've been there all night,。
you've been posturing people, you're tired,。
you go home, you know, Cyril's still awake,。
so you had to put Cyril to sleep,。
and, you know, he was really hard to put to sleep,。
and you finally, everything is nice and quiet,。
and then suddenly, Jethro, you know,。
comes up and starts knocking on your door.。
Yeah, what would you do in that situation?。
- Saturday is probably the worst day。
to look for me after 180,。
and I'm sorry, Jethro, I like you a lot,。
you are the nicest person, but I will get super annoyed,。
and I will make up lots of excuses to make you go away.。
- Yeah. (audience laughing)。
Fair enough, fair enough, right,。
I would probably do the same, right,。
like the goal, right, to knock on someone's door。
at midnight to ask for something bread, you know,。
I think in the context of the story,。
it would have been even more annoying,。
because back then, houses were just one big room,。
and so everybody would have been sleeping。
on the floor together in, like, the living area,。
and apparently, you know, there were, like,。
the way the doors were made,。
it just made a lot of noise to open the door,。
all this kind of stuff would have been hugely annoying,。
the children would definitely have been woken up, right,。
this isn't even asking for the friend for himself,。
it's a friend of a friend who's come to visit,。
like, what's, you know, why are you bothering with this man?。
Right, so it's just hugely annoying,。
completely unreasonable, and so you wouldn't expect。
a reasonable response, right, you would expect Phil。
or anyone else in their right mind to be like,。
go away, you know, stop bugging me, come back tomorrow,。
or, you know, I'm not talking to you right now,。
put the phone on do not disturb, right,。
and just leave it at that, which is precisely。
why this story is so weird, because that is not。
the response that this person is faced with, right,。
you would think it would end by saying, go away,。
but it's not, right, in the end, the person who asks。
gets what he needs, and gets what he asked for in the end,。
so, you know, why do you think Jesus tells this story。
in this way, right, it's kind of weird,。
it's kind of doesn't make sense to us.。
- Yeah, it is pretty weird, and I mean,。
the scripture does say it kind of low-key validates。
your shadiness, 'cause it's like, you know,。
the friend is like, no, you can go away now,。
we're sleeping, I'll find you some other time,。
but verse eight, actually, Jesus highlights that,。
even though the friend doesn't get up to help。
out of a desire to be a good friend or whatever,。
he does, indeed, eventually get up, and it reads,。
even though he will not get up and give you the bread。
because of friendship, yet because of your shameless。
audacity, he will surely get up and give you。
as much as you need, and as we were kind of reading。
through this, I was looking at that phrase,。
shameless audacity, and I was pulling out, like,。
different translations of the Bible, 'cause they always。
have, like, different words of it, so that's just。
a good tip if you're reading your Bible,。
and there's a part that's interesting or weird,。
just look at other translations to get a sense。
of what the full meaning of the word is,。
but anyway, I was doing that, and different versions。
have different words for that, so shameless audacity,。
persistence,。
boldness,。
a number of other words that are, like, SAT words,。
too fancy for me, and I can't remember,。
but the sense of it is this notion of someone。
who's so persistent to the point of annoyance,。
so think of, like, the picture of a kid who's like,。
dad, can we have ice cream for dinner,。
can we have ice cream for dinner,。
can we have ice cream for dinner, are we there yet,。
you know, like, that consistent push,。
and I think the first thing that that taught me,。
or that I, that that highlighted for me。
about what Jesus is teaching his disciples about prayer。
is just having the audacity to ask,。
like, daring to approach him at all.。
In this story, the scenario really doesn't make sense,。
it takes shameless audacity because it just doesn't。
make sense to bother someone at midnight。
for three loaves of bread, like, the situation。
doesn't make sense, the request doesn't seem proportional,。
you can really wait a couple more hours。
and find me when the sun rises, like,。
it's not that far away from, like, 5 a.m.,。
when probably they would've been up,。
but it's just Jesus encouraging them,。
when it doesn't seem like it's important enough,。
when the circumstances are not favorable,。
when it seems like it'll be too mafan to do it,。
do it anyway, right, like, the, just he,。
first he's just inviting them and encouraging them。
to come, have the audacity to come.。
But then the second thing I realized,。
I went further into my rabbit hole of, like,。
translations and what actually do you mean。
shameless audacity and fell on the Greek bandwagon,。
and I don't speak Greek, so just looking at scholars。
who were looking at that phrase, and it turns out。
that another way you could interpret the sentence,。
in this version it says, because of your shameless audacity。
you will surely get up, but another way to interpret。
that phrase is to say, because the person doesn't wanna。
be put to shame, they will get up.。
So kind of the sense of, they didn't wanna lose face,。
and so they end up, even though they don't want to。
and don't feel like it, they get up.。
Now, God, what I'm not saying is that's how God thinks,。
and we'll get to that later, that's not necessarily God,。
but I think what this did remind me of is how,。
in scripture, when people approach God,。
often they approached him on the basis of his character,。
rather than their own persistence.。
So you have Moses, when he's interceding,。
and God is like, I'm just gonna wipe everybody out,。
we're gonna start over, they're not my people,。
forget about them, and Moses is like, cool, cool, cool, cool,。
but what are people gonna say about you?。
What are they gonna say about you bringing these people。
all the way here, are they gonna say that you weren't。
able to keep them, so you killed them all off?。
So that intercession moment wasn't really about。
Moses being so deep and so good, even,。
or so kind that he could intercede for others,。
it was about him understanding the character of God。
and saying, yeah, but these people represent you,。
so what does this say about you?。
Similarly, in later times, when David is praying,。
he says, have mercy on me, not because I deserve it,。
but out of your unfailing love.。
So this second kind of facet of approaching prayer。
based on who God is, and that making up the foundation,。
that giving us the courage, even if we're not there,。
he is, that we can approach him.。
- Yeah, I think one good thing to remember is,。
you know, the nature, why Jesus told stories in parables。
was because often there was like this subversive message。
behind what he was trying to say, and so the idea。
of approaching God with shameless audacity,。
just approaching him, would have been completely。
countercultural to what people were used to at the time,。
with sacrifices and all these rituals you had to go to。
before you could enter the temple and all this kind of stuff。
but what Jesus is saying, no, just go up to him,。
just approach him, it's fine, you know,。
because of his character, we can go to him。
with the things that we need.。
Now, of course, that grows out to the other part,。
the other side of that coin is, now, when we do go to him。
with things we need, right, when we ask him for these。
crazy, shameless, you know, things that we are,。
like we seem to be, that seem to be unreasonable,。
when we go to God with these kind of requests,。
what kind of response can we expect to have from him?。
And I know, you know, Jethro, you, Phil, also have。
had those sort of experiences where you've gone to God。
with something, something ridiculous,。
and you've prayed about it, and in those times,。
you know, how do you feel like God has responded to you?。
>> Yeah, I think Phil's example is a more serious example.。
Well, so mine was a few years, quite a few years back.。
The background is my family having a financial situation,。
a hardship, and because I was reading the Bible,。
and then this part, right, 'cause he says,。
"Ask and it will be given to you."。
And then so I was thinking, okay, I need money.。
And not just me, right, like my family needs money.。
So I was asking God for $1 million.。
Like, you guys are like, "What, is that serious?"。
But I was genuinely serious at that point, like,。
Lord, can you ask, I'm asking for $1 million, can you,。
'cause you know you hear stories of people。
receiving mysterious money, and suddenly your bank account。
grows a few zeros, and that's what I was expecting.。
So there was a period in my life where whenever I go。
to the ATM and I plug in my card, put in the pin,。
and I was like, is this the same?。
Yeah, it's still the same.。
$1 million's not there yet.。
>> But after you get married, it's like the opposite.。
It just keeps going down and down and down.。
Okay, carry on, sorry.。
>> Noted, noted.。
>> He's getting ready, so anyway.。
>> No, but then like, I think that I was genuinely asking,。
because God says, like Emma said, like, you're asking。
not because of your persistence,。
but because of what God has said, right?。
And clearly He said, "Ask, and it will be given to you."。
So I'm like, Lord, you said this,。
and so now I'm asking you, right?。
So if I don't ask, He won't give.。
>> What was that, you miss the shots?。
You miss 100% of the shots you don't take.。
>> Yeah, yeah, that's right, yeah.。
>> But He didn't give me, He hasn't given me yet.。
But I think throughout the process,。
like I wasn't just asking,。
I was genuinely listening to His answers.。
I was asking, Lord, if like, I genuinely need。
like your support, your provision,。
we need like as a family, but then how are you。
going to provide, and not by that one million instant money,。
but I think throughout that period,。
He's teaching me like, okay, He's put people around me,。
He's put circumstances around me.。
I have, I think at that time I was looking for a job,。
and then I got a job.。
So like, you know, those things are His answers。
to my question of, to my actually deeper question,。
Lord, will you provide?。
It's not actually about the one million,。
but if I didn't ask for the one million dollars。
that seemed ridiculous, I wouldn't have gotten。
to the point where I'm actually coming to God。
with a need, like a vulnerability,。
like Lord, I need you to provide, I need you to come through.。
So yeah, I think the way that He answers is different,。
and, but you don't get to that answer until you ask.。
So yeah, what about you, Phil?。
>> Yeah, I can relate to, well, I like to call it。
unanswered prayers, because in my situation,。
as many of you might know, I have a chronic health condition。
and so I pray about it every day.。
My wife, Chris, prays about it.。
The staff team, we've all prayed about it.。
And the awkward elephant is that He has heard the prayer。
and decided to kind of leave me hanging.。
And that kind of creates this, just not wanting。
to kind of come to Him.。
And I struggle in the area of kind of unanswered prayers。
a lot, and if I even talk about it a little bit more,。
it gets very dangerous when it starts to,。
when I make it about me, when I think,。
actually, He's not healing, He's not doing something.。
He doesn't love me.。
And so paradoxically, actually, to get out of this trouble,。
to stay away from trouble, it's to ask even more,。
it's to pray even more.。
And over the 30 years of having eczema。
and praying about it every day, I've realized that,。
actually, I need Him more than I need Him to heal me。
and meet my health need.。
And prayer just kind of takes me away。
from the center of the universe, the sense of existence,。
and it puts God back into the center of existence.。
- You know, that's really good, Phil.。
I think both Jethro and Phil sharing from their experiences,。
Phil, going back to the Lord's Prayer, right?。
God has provided, that your daily bread,。
you're sitting here today speaking to us,。
each and every single step of the way, God has provided.。
I know, Phil, in your struggles, I was with you。
in the hospital some of those times。
when those flare-ups were just so unbearable.。
But to be sitting here today again, right,。
and we're still praying as a staff.。
I pray for you sometimes, you know,。
maybe not as often as I should,。
but when God reminds me, I do pray for you,。
and people are praying for you.。
So that's an ongoing thing we have, right,。
in our relationship with each other。
and in our relationship with God as well.。
But I think often, going back to what we were talking about。
before as well, there are things that sort of,。
and maybe you guys can relate too,。
things that sort of stop us from taking that first step。
in the first place, right,。
to actually ask God for something.。
You know, can I ask God about this?。
You know, will He even listen?。
Is this too big or too small?。
And maybe, Emma, you could share a bit more。
about your thoughts on what are some of those things。
that stop us from initially even engaging with God。
in that conversation of asking about something for prayer,。
in prayer? - Yeah.。
I'm sure there's like a million things we can come up with.。
I can think of like four or five.。
I think the first thing is the,。
we are a people, as a generation,。
I think that are in our head a lot more。
than maybe generations before us,。
so we plan a lot, we live here quite a bit.。
And so I think a lot of the times,。
one obstacle to prayer that's super simple。
is just you think about it and you don't do it.。
Like, you just, you don't, like, you're like,。
oh, yeah, I'll pray about that.。
And then life happens and kids and whatever,。
and then you forget.。
I remember we had a staff d'evil on Tuesday。
and I was in the middle of singing a song,。
and as I'm singing a song, I'm reminded of,。
I see a colleague and I'm reminded of a need they have。
and I make a mental note, like, okay, you know,。
in mid-song, like, I will shout for them,。
yeah, I'll pray for them, you know,。
maybe after this song, after this moment.。
And I remember the Holy Spirit reminding me,。
actually, you can pray now.。
You're talking to me now about how you're gonna do。
this later, so why don't you just do it。
while you're talking about it?。
So I think this, like, there's a sense of urgency。
and immediacy to prayer.。
We tend to think, we like to do things。
after we've thought through all of the steps。
and we've come up with all of the best ways to do it,。
and with prayer, it really is something。
that you learn as you do it.。
And so instead of planning to pray, pray, right?。
Like, that's a better use of time than to say,。
the three minutes it takes you to write down,。
like, oh, what is that request?。
Like, you really can pray at any time,。
in the midst of any situation.。
So that's probably one.。
Another one would be that we don't think we need him, right?。
Technology is really good.。
We're not at the place in the world or in history。
where you need the Lord for clean water.。
Like, you don't have to pray for your water。
to be poison-free.。
And so we think, mistakenly, I think,。
that because we are not as aware of our need of him,。
that our need has lessened.。
And so, you know, he's strengthened,。
and it is his provision that there are less tangible needs,。
but we need him no less.。
So I think to those of us that sometimes feel like,。
actually, I'm pretty good, I'm doing okay,。
and I'm not really reminded of how much I need him,。
I'm not in a dire situation,。
I think he would say, without me, you can do nothing.。
Absolutely nothing.。
So like, not like you can do some things。
or you can do a little bit of things, right?。
And it's just, it's that working up that muscle。
to be reminded that we need him.。
I think another reason is that we are afraid。
'cause whatever we're asking for help for,。
we got ourselves in that situation.。
Maybe he told you not to do it, and you did it anyway,。
and now you're in this situation,。
and you're like, ah, it's kind of awkward。
to go back to you now.。
But what we heard last week, that parable。
about a father who's open and who's waiting,。
and I don't think there's a parent here。
whose child, having gone as far away as possible,。
turns and goes back to them, who would be like,。
nah, you went too far.。
Like, whatever condition you're in, when you turn,。
that you turn, is what he cares about,。
it's what he wants, right?。
And then I think another thing is,。
we might actually doubt, like, can he do it?。
What's this gonna change?。
And to that, I'm reminded of the father。
who asked Jesus to heal his son,。
and he ends up praying, and his prayer is,。
I believe, but help my unbelief.。
So it's okay, even if I'm not sure.。
If I'm like, yeah, they said Jesus might heal,。
but maybe he won't, and I don't know if he will,。
so I'm just not gonna bother.。
Still coming to him.。
And then the biggest one, I think, for me,。
that I think, in terms of where we are in Hong Kong,。
and just as a, I don't know, generation of people,。
is the fear of being a burden is such a big, big hurdle。
for people when it comes to bringing our needs。
to one another and to God.。
I have not met a people that are so stuck。
on being self-sufficient, like we are,。
generally as this generation,。
but also Hong Kong is like, next, next.。
Like, it's like, you know, love the Lord your God,。
and then don't be mafan.。
That's how the commandments work here.。
We really hate feeling like we're imposing。
or being a burden on one another.。
We can't stand the notion of,。
ah, what are people gonna think?。
And I think that becomes something we carry,。
maybe subconsciously with us, into a relationship with God,。
where it's like, ah, that's gonna be bothersome.。
Oh, that's gonna be, you know, he's gonna not,。
it's gonna bother him.。
And I think there it's really helpful。
that he is not actually the grumpy friend。
that is annoyed with us at midnight, right?。
He's a father.。
>> Yeah, if I can add on to the self-sufficiency nature。
of why we don't tend to pray.。
Another one, it's, you know,。
as self-preservation creatures,。
we love to self-preserve in a way。
where we don't want to further humiliate ourselves。
when we've been turned down the first time.。
And so what we do is, you know, we don't ask anymore.。
And yet, Jesus teaching about this shameless audacity,。
he's actually not just teaching it,。
but he models it himself.。
If we think about the prayers that he did near his death,。
the one at the Mount Olives,。
Father, if you're willing, could you take away that cop?。
That blows my mind.。
Another one to really think about, you know,。
the one on the cross,。
Father, forgive them for they didn't know。
what they were doing.。
That shameless audacity, that is, you know,。
being so vulnerable at the cost of being humiliated by all.。
And so he is modeling us something。
that he could do himself,。
and it proves to us that we could also do it.。
And he could do it so well。
because he knows the Father's heart.。
And I think that would be the direction we ought to take.。
- And just one more thing about being self-sufficient.。
I think, especially when unanswered prayers come up,。
I think it's so easy to stop praying.。
It's so easy to stop asking.。
It's so easy to be self-sufficient in that,。
okay, he's not answering my prayers.。
I will take over.。
I will provide for myself.。
I will strategize.。
I will plan.。
I will try to do it on my own strength.。
But then you end up taking your life into your own hands.。
And I think that's not what he wants.。
That's not what he wants for us to grow into.。
He wants us to grow into dependence on him every day.。
And so I think being persistent,。
I think part of it is also like。
when your prayers are not answered,。
when my prayers are not answered,。
we persist in listening to him.。
We persist in asking him, like Phil said,。
even there's pain and heartbreak and disappointment,。
but you don't turn away from God。
because when you turn away from God,。
there will be so many other things that will distract you。
and eventually take the place of God.。
But yeah, just being vulnerable and persistent in this age.。
- And the reason we can do that, right,。
going back to God's character is because。
as people of faith, as followers of Jesus, right,。
as Christians, we know God's character, right?。
That's the thing that sits at the center of our faith.。
We know God's character.。
We know that we can relate to him as a good father.。
Like I said, many, perhaps when we talk about。
our earthly fathers, there could be。
a bunch of different reactions, you know,。
maybe that triggers something really, really horrible。
in our experiences of fatherhood.。
But God is a good father, right?。
And we have to put our faith and trust in that,。
and which is why he goes on to say this, right?。
Which of you fathers, if your son asked for fish,。
would give him a snake instead?。
Or if he asked for an egg, would give him a scorpion?。
This is how you know, by the way, Jesus wasn't Chinese,。
'cause like snakes and scorpions are kind of edible。
as well, I guess, right?。
[audience laughing]。
Snake, sometimes people will eat snake。
instead of a fish, even, right?。
Anyway.。
Oh, okay, but you know, no father would do that, right?。
No, would give something bad in the place of something good.。
That's the point, okay?。
If then you, though you are evil,。
know how to give good gifts to your children,。
how much more will your father in heaven。
give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him, right?。
So it's like God going even, when you ask him for stuff,。
he knows you best, he is your father.。
He knows even better than what you think you need, right?。
It's like Isaiah bugging me for days,。
and is it Friday yet?。
'Cause on Friday we eat cereal, right?。
Can I have cereal today?。
Is this day the end of the week, you know?。
And like, every day he's asking me for that cereal,。
'cause that's all he wants to eat, right?。
But he gets it once a week,。
because if he ate it every week,。
every day, it wouldn't be good for his health,。
for his body, right?。
So sometimes when we ask for things,。
we have to always keep in mind the character of God, right?。
That he knows best, and what he gives us。
is provisions for what we need, right?。
Daily bread, things that he knows are good for us.。
Now from our limited wisdom and perspective,。
we might not always see in that way,。
but when we pray to the Father, he responds in love.。
Not like a, and the whole point of the parable。
is God is not a grumpy friend, right?。
God is not someone you have to beg and nag and persist,。
right, in order to get what you want.。
He is the complete opposite of that, right?。
His heart for you, right, like you were saying earlier,。
I'm like, promised her last week, right, is delighting.。
Right, my son's coming knocking at midnight.。
Yes, I'm gonna open the door.。
There's a feast for him, right?。
Everything's already been ready.。
I've been welcoming this.。
Much more so than a grumpy friend who only reacts。
'cause you've been too annoying,。
and finally he has to get up and answer you, right,。
just to keep you quiet.。
- Yeah, my son's name is Cyril,。
and when I'm thinking about how he asks me of things。
in his position as a son, he doesn't really overthink it.。
You know, we always do that kind of work in our head。
when we do our prayer, but Cyril doesn't.。
And, you know, that's probably the perfect way。
to do sonship and daughtership,。
to know that he wants us past midnight.。
He wants us when all the shops are closed,。
the doors are locked,。
everybody else in the world is sleeping.。
He just wants us always, and that's why we can come to him.。
- Yeah, so how does the Holy,。
but what does the Holy Spirit have to do with this, Sanjay?。
Because at the end it tells us, you know,。
he'll give you the Holy Spirit.。
So when it comes to the Holy Spirit,。
obviously there's something in the gift of the Holy Spirit。
that empowers us to be able to approach God。
and to pray to him, and that sort of influences。
the way we pray to God.。
- Yeah, I think just the key part that I notice。
is like when you see the passage,。
in the first, Jesus teaches about the prayer, right,。
the Lord's Prayer, and then he's like,。
"Give us this day our daily bread,"。
and then the next thing, the parable,。
is saying this friend asking for bread.。
And then in the end he says,。
"How much more will your Father in Heaven。
"give the Holy Spirit?"。
So in my head it's like, what are you asking for, bread?。
What are you asking for, bread?。
What is the Father gonna give, Holy Spirit?。
So then in my head it's like, the Holy Spirit。
is the bread that we need every day in our lives。
as Christians, as followers of Jesus,。
because he's the one that will help us,。
like your experience, right?。
He will be the one that will shape our prayers.。
He's the one that's answering our prayers,。
and he's the one that's teaching us how to pray。
at the same time.。
But yeah, we need, I think eventually we need him。
more than we realize we need bread.。
>> Yeah, 'cause without the Holy Spirit, right,。
I think what Emma was doing,。
without God we can do nothing, you know?。
And so the Holy Spirit is what binds us together,。
it's what God has given to all of us,。
how he provides for everybody, through the Holy Spirit.。
Now Emma, maybe going back to the communal part。
of this prayer then, you mentioned something earlier。
about self-preservation, about that being something。
that we don't often talk to each other。
about the things we need, right?。
There is maybe perhaps a little bit of shame。
in coming to a group of friends and saying,。
oh actually, I can't afford this,。
or actually, I'm sick, can you help me with something?。
As a person who's here in Hong Kong without family,。
when you came to this city, perhaps maybe share。
a little bit about your experience。
about how you being vulnerable and inviting the community,。
hopefully we've been a good friend to you。
and that you'd be terrible, you'd say,。
nobody ever helped me in nothing,。
I have to do everything by myself, right?。
But how has your community around you,。
when you presented those needs, right,。
and how did you see God work through,。
how the Holy Spirit worked through the community。
and people around you into answering some of your needs,。
some of your prayers at that time?。
- Yeah, that's, wow, I didn't see that question coming.。
This is an area where I've been whooped into shape,。
like vulnerability and dependence on God。
through dependence on his family, the church,。
because I, like if you didn't know, I live in Hong Kong,。
but my whole family isn't here, so it's just me, right?。
My biological family isn't here, and so, I mean, man,。
there have been so many, so many instances of being sick,。
being, like needing money, needing people to talk to,。
not knowing, I'm not only away from home,。
I'm also from a culture that's not the most open。
about talking about your problems,。
so it's like you kind of, like you struggle,。
you take it to Jesus.。
I'm also a preacher's kid, so I was taught, you know,。
you need help, you go find Jesus,。
Jesus doesn't answer, you wait until he does,。
that's it, so that's just kind of how I,。
it's been good in some ways for my prayer life。
and dependence on him and my realization。
that when he meets me, even if it's through people,。
that it is his provision, but I think one of the。
probably wildest moments for me was around,。
I think 2002, around 2002, this is,。
we were in the middle of COVID, so our doors were closed。
and we had, huh?。
- 2022? - Yeah.。
- 2022, not 2002. - Oh, what did I say?。
Oh, oops.。
- Yeah. - Oh, two, two.。
Sorry, 2022, so we are in the middle of the whole craze。
and the church doors are closed,。
we've just finished recording an Easter special,。
so that Easter Sunday, we didn't have to be。
in the auditorium, everybody watched it online,。
and I'm thinking, and Easter Monday, it's a holiday,。
so I'm thinking, oh, I'm just gonna get up late。
and we're gonna get brunch and then I'm gonna lounge around.。
I think the next day, I was hanging out with Balana,。
so it was like a whole weekend, I was excited,。
and that Easter Sunday, I started to feel unwell.。
And I was, I didn't know what it was,。
like I couldn't, it wasn't the kind of unwell。
where you can say I have a headache or I just felt off.。
And so, and it was so off that I texted a few friends,。
I think I texted Balana, Jeth, or Michelle,。
I'm like, hey guys, I'm gonna take a nap,。
but I feel so weird that in an hour, call me, just check,。
and they're like, whoa, what's going on?。
I'm like, I don't know, but I'm tired,。
so I'm gonna take a nap,。
and when I wake up, we'll deal with it.。
So I took a nap, anyway, the next day,。
I go to the ER to figure out what's going on,。
and I'm thinking this is gonna be quick,。
I'm gonna go in, they're gonna figure out,。
or they're gonna tell me it's fine, get some painkillers,。
and then I'm gonna go get my brunch,。
like this is properly the plan.。
I walk into the ER, and less than five minutes in,。
they rush me to see a doctor,。
and I didn't realize until later,。
that's really, really, you should be afraid.。
It doesn't, it was a public hospital on a public holiday,。
usually it's not that fast.。
So I get in, and like, they rush me through,。
and it's all these tests, all this crazy,。
essentially the doctor goes,。
looking at your symptoms, and looking at what you've shared,。
you've either just had a heart attack,。
or you've had a stroke.。
And, and you have to, we're gonna have to keep you.。
And we're in the middle of COVID,。
so imagine the craziness of like,。
you don't wanna be in a hospital,。
like away in a local hospital, so it's mostly Cantonese,。
they speak English,。
but they're more comfortable with Cantonese.。
And I didn't know I was gonna be,。
it was gonna be this dramatic,。
I was just being precautious.。
So now I have to text my community, right?。
'Cause I didn't tell them, I was like,。
I don't feel well, I'm a grownup,。
I can go to the hospital.。
And then I'll enforce a text.。
Hey guys, I'm in the hospital,。
and I'm gonna get hospitalized.。
And they just, you know,。
kind of give them the little rundown of it.。
And I'm, you know, like half in tears as I'm typing it,。
I don't know what to do, don't know, what do you,。
what do you say?。
But I think I found that through their,。
'cause nobody could come to me,。
it was definitely like, it's COVID,。
so like nobody can get anywhere in a hospital.。
But through their prayers,。
and I had lawyer friends like break through the system。
and deliver like cheese bread at random,。
like it was,。
I found Jesus to be so present。
through the ridiculousness of my community.。
From the banter, like there was incessant chat。
throughout the entire time that I was there,。
fully covered in prayer,。
fully present in bringing me whatever nonsense I needed.。
I think Michelle broke into my house,。
brought me my Bible somehow.。
And it just was like, I found,。
I think, and through that experience, that's very dramatic,。
but even through little experiences as well,。
I realized I actually do have to say when I need something,。
because they're not gonna know, right?。
Like they can't read my mind.。
And as a people of God,。
we have to let go of whatever cultural things we're used to,。
and align with kingdom culture that says,。
you will be provided for if you ask.。
You gotta think about it.。
It's not like God doesn't know what you need, right?。
Matthew six says, the Father knows what you need。
before you ask, before you're even aware。
of how to ask for it.。
But he still requires us to ask.。
And so for me, it's been a lesson in learning。
how to tell people instead of growing bitter。
because it's like nobody ever stands up for me.。
Like how are they gonna know?。
How are they gonna know?。
They're not the Lord, and even the Lord says, ask me.。
So in terms of community, it's really been for me。
a journey in learning to ask and trust with no expectation,。
trust that God will meet me,。
and how he meets me is his business,。
and who he meets me through is his business.。
But my part is to ask, and to let the people。
that he's placed around me know what I need.。
- Yeah, that's beautiful, Amber, right?。
That's such a, yeah.。
(audience applauding)。
So that's how prayer builds our relationship with God.。
Like I was saying earlier, we pray, we tell God,。
'cause that's how you build relationship,。
by conversation, by talking.。
And it was only ever one way, right?。
And it would not be a relationship.。
God wants us to tell him.。
He wants us to ask him.。
He wants us to tell him about the things。
that we're going through。
because that's how we build relationship.。
It's the same with each other.。
We go through things with each other.。
Those days I spent with you,。
well, those afternoons I spent with you in the hospital,。
right, those were precious times to me, right,。
to be alongside you in that process.。
And so that's what God wants for his community.。
And I think this afternoon, right here in this time,。
perhaps as we close, it's a little bit of time。
to do that as well.。
We have an opportunity.。
We have brothers and sisters around us, right?。
If you're sitting here in this room today,。
if you've called yourself a follower of Jesus,。
then God is your father.。
And so as God, as our father, sitting together right now,。
it's an opportunity to come before him。
with shameless audacity,。
knowing we're not gonna be met with a grumpy God,。
but with love.。
In the same way, knowing that we've come to our friends。
with our burdens and things we need,。
hopefully we're not, oh, yeah, Jethro, so annoying, fine,。
here's a million dollars, you know,。
just go and live your life, whatever, okay?。
But to have a friend that's concerned,。
you know, that's willing, okay,。
hey, I know you're struggling.。
Well, now let's do this together, figure it out, right?。
We're in this as a family.。
But if we don't share, like Emma was saying, we don't know.。
So what I want us to do is to perhaps take,。
we have a little time left before the service closes,。
with the people around you,。
if you are so brave enough to share。
maybe some of the burdens that you have.。
Maybe you came in here today with something that,。
oh, this is something that I've been needing, right?。
This is a provision I've been praying for.。
Perhaps the answer is in this room here today, right?。
And as you share, it will be met in some way, right?。
So if you're brave enough,。
if you came with people you trust with,。
or if the Holy Spirit is prompting you。
to share with somebody,。
take the opportunity to do that right now.。
Or maybe if you just want to talk to God,。
you know, and let Him know,。
maybe it's been a while since you've done that.。
Maybe you could, maybe this is a time to do that as well.。
But take a couple of minutes to share,。
and then take a couple of minutes to actually pray。
with each other and for one another,。
or maybe, like I said, even for yourself.。
And then we're gonna take a few minutes to do that,。
and then Jethro's gonna close us with a prayer。
before we end the service in a little bit.。
Does that sound all right, church?。
Okay, so yeah, find a spot.。
I'm gonna invite the band to come up.。
They're just gonna play softly some music。
in the background while we do this.。
But really take some time to bring this parable。
and these things, these teachings we've been talking about。
to life this afternoon, church.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
