Amen, amen, awesome.。
Have a seat, please, have a seat.。
Well, welcome to the Vine if this is your relatively new time or if this is kind of。
like one of your first times.。
We're so grateful you're here.。
This is our 11 o'clock service.。
We have three services on a Sunday, 9, 15, 11, and 2.。
We're very, very, very full at the 11 o'clock.。
In fact, we've got a huge overflow happening at the moment and there's probably not a spare.。
But if you do have a seat next to you, could you just put your hand up?。
There are some people standing around the sides here.。
So if you do have a seat next to you, there's one right at the front over here.。
There's one in the back over here.。
We really appreciate it.。
We don't want anyone having to stand, but we recognize that there's a bunch of people。
standing in the upper house and the lower house.。
So if there's a possible seat next to you or if somebody just doesn't mind like sharing。
a seat, you know, bum on each part of the seat, we're a community here together.。
Okay, maybe don't do that.。
All right, Ellison's giving up his seat.。
Come on, let's hear it for Ellison.。
What a man.。
You can sit with Justin.。
Ellison's giving up his seat.。
Okay, we need one person for this seat.。
Otherwise it's going to look really weird in the video because there's going to be like。
an empty seat right here.。
Ellison, we need you back in that seat if no one else is going to sit in that seat.。
My name is Andrew.。
I'm one of the pastors here.。
We're grateful that you're here.。
We've been in this series on the Holy Spirit over the last little while.。
And then this week and the next week, we're going to be focusing now on the work of the。
Spirit.。
And I'm really excited because we want to do a couple of things with you today.。
I want to teach you a little bit around the work of the Spirit, which I'll do in a moment.。
But the most important thing that's going to happen today is we're actually going to。
pray and we're going to make space for the work of the Spirit for each one of us here.。
And that's going to be personal.。
It'll be corporate.。
But we really want to make space today.。
So that's why we've set up a little bit differently.。
That's why we're going to have time.。
That's why we cut our worship a little bit shorter than we normally do because we want。
to emphasize ministry of the Holy Spirit on each one of us today.。
That's both Upper House, Lower House, in the overflow.。
And if you're joining us online right now, we're so grateful you're sitting at home somewhere。
wearing your pajamas maybe, just chilling out at home.。
We're glad that you're here with us as well.。
And we pray that this and what we do today will also really reach you and minister to。
you where you're at.。
In order to kind of unpack what I want to do with you guys, I want to start by having。
you guys do something.。
So I want you to start by thinking about when was the last time you experienced the personal。
work of the Holy Spirit for you?。
When was the last time you had a personal encounter with the Holy Spirit?。
For some of you, you're like, "Just two minutes ago during worship," which is great.。
But maybe for many of us, maybe it's another time.。
But have a think.。
When was the last time you had a personal encounter with the Holy Spirit and what was。
it like?。
Think about that.。
Now I would hazard a guess that for the majority of us in this room, when we pause for a moment。
to think about, "Okay, when was the last time I had a personal encounter with the Holy Spirit?"。
The natural tendency is maybe to think about some of the dramatic kind of manifestations。
of the Spirit.。
So we kind of automatically begin to think about, "Oh yeah, that time when somebody prayed。
for me and I felt like kind of bolts of lightning through my body," or, "Somebody prayed for。
me and I felt all warm inside," or, "Actually, there was that moment when I was praying for。
somebody at the service last weekend and I could see that the Holy Spirit was doing something。
on them and it just felt amazing."。
Or maybe it was a time where you had a headache and you prayed and suddenly your headache。
went.。
Or maybe you were with someone and they had something going on in their lives and a group。
of people prayed for them and you saw a miracle take place.。
I think when we often think about the work of the Holy Spirit, when we think about that。
as an encounter for us, it's easy for us to think about these dramatic moments where the。
Spirit does something external to us that is incredible to see.。
And those are, of course, very much the work of the Spirit.。
But here's a fascinating thing.。
When you open up the New Testament in particular and you look at the theology and the teaching。
around the Spirit, particularly in the work of Paul as he's writing to the church, predominantly。
what is spoken about when the work of the Spirit is spoken about is, yes, it is the。
external manifestations.。
I mean, we see those in the ministry of Jesus, of course, and the miracles in which he did.。
And then in the early church, we know that there was gifts of the Spirit that was poured。
out.。
And, of course, that external stuff was at work.。
But Paul, predominantly, when he's speaking about the Spirit and its work, he talks differently.。
He says, actually, the Spirit does its primary work within us.。
The slow at times, sometimes imperceptible changes that happen within us, that the Spirit。
by its fruit comes and changes us and turns us into people who are more patient, people。
who have more joy, people that find more love coming from us.。
And yes, there are the dramatic moments where the Spirit comes and does what only the Spirit。
can do, these miraculous things that I think, particularly for us charismatic Christians,。
that's kind of something that we long for and look for.。
But actually, it's the internal, quiet, step-by-step, life-transforming work of the Spirit that。
the New Testament particularly celebrates.。
In fact, it is these two things, and I want you to think about this, it is the external。
manifestations of the Spirit and the internal transformation by the Spirit that are the。
totality of His work.。
Are you following this?。
Here's the tendency I think we have as Christians, is that when we see that the work of the Spirit。
is both of these things, the problem is, though, if you're anything like me, you can have a。
bias towards one of them.。
And that bias might be for a number of reasons.。
There may be one of these sides, whether the external manifestation or the internal transformation,。
that we naturally find ourselves leaning more towards, wanting perhaps more or perhaps more。
comfortable with than the other.。
Perhaps for some of you in this room, your theological convictions and your own personal。
convictions lends you to one or the other.。
Maybe for some of us in this room, your past experience, whether good or bad, may actually。
put you in one camp or the other.。
Maybe for some of you in this room, you just don't care.。
The exits are just over here and here.。
But whatever it is, I think we as human beings, we find ourselves gravitating towards one。
of these things more, maybe because of theology, maybe because of experience, maybe because。
of our own convictions, but we're found in one of these things.。
Here's what I've found.。
I've found that this is seasonal in my life.。
I wonder if you've ever found this.。
I remember in my 20s, which was a while ago, I remember in my 20s so passionate about the。
physical manifestations of the Holy Spirit, man, I wanted to see miracles.。
I wanted to see God do anything.。
I wanted to lay hands on people that were texting their friends.。
Hi, how are you?。
The Lord Jesus.。
But I wanted to lay hands on people and pray for the Spirit, pray for miracles, see them。
set free.。
And I tell you what.。
In my 20s, I saw incredible things happen.。
In my 30s, though, I went to Bible school.。
And when I got to Bible school, it was almost like they did their very best to get rid of。
all of the manifestations of the Spirit, and it was all about the internal work of the。
sanctification of the Spirit.。
And I studied scripture, and I learned about what the internal work of the Spirit does.。
And I remember in my 30s, I was much more focused for a season on the internal work。
and the sanctification power of the Holy Spirit.。
In my 40s, I wanted both.。
In my 40s, I was like everywhere.。
I want dramatic things.。
I want the internal.。
In my 50s now, I can barely keep my eyes open.。
But for me, it's been a seasonal thing.。
I've found myself moving in seasons.。
Perhaps that's the same for you.。
Here's what I want to say, and I think this is really important.。
Here at The Vine, if you're new with us, welcome.。
But here at The Vine, we've been talking about over the last number of months that we're。
in a season of uncharted waters.。
What we mean by that is that the Lord is moving us as a church community out of our comfort。
zones into a place where we don't have a map or we don't have a strategy.。
The Holy Spirit is beginning to do things amongst us that are taking us by surprise。
and causing us to kind of rethink how we do things together as a community.。
It's an incredibly exciting time that we're in.。
And because we are in an uncharted time, because we are feeling a little bit out of our comfort。
zones, here's what I think the Spirit wants you personally to lean into, to recognize。
which of these two sides you have a little bit more of a leaning towards, and then intentionally。
in this time, try to work on the other side.。
Try to open your heart to the other aspects of the work of the Spirit.。
Because when we're in a season, when we're in uncharted waters, when we're in a season。
where it's a little bit uncomfortable, we're out of our comfort zone, you're going to need。
both of these things at work in your life.。
You're going to need the stability of the Spirit of God working in these beautiful manifestations,。
working on the internal transformation that anchors you in a season where we're really。
relying on Him to lead us.。
We don't have a map, we have a guide, amen?。
And the guide is the Holy Spirit walking with us.。
And He wants to manifest His work in your life through the external and the internal.。
So my challenge for us here this morning is to not treat these things like an and/or,。
but to treat them like both/and.。
Now how do we do that?。
Well, I want to do two things with us.。
I want to first of all take us a little bit high up into a broad theological view of how。
Scripture provides for us a picture of the work of the Spirit.。
And I want to, if you will, not go into the depths of the details of it, but I want to。
kind of do an airline kind of flyover of what Genesis to Revelation shares to us about the。
ongoing work of the Spirit.。
And then from that place, I want to then take it and make it more personal for you.。
How the bigger picture, if you will, the broad narrative, actually then begins to speak to。
you personally in your context.。
And then after that, we're going to pray.。
And we are going to pray.。
And we're going to invite you to be brave, invite you to have some courage, invite you。
to wrestle with everything that I'm going to be teaching and speaking about over the。
next number of minutes, and then come forward and have someone lay their hands on you.。
And to see the manifestation and the internal work of the Spirit truly begin to take root。
in us.。
Amen?。
Can I pray for us?。
Father, we are so grateful for each person here and for the way you have formed and shaped。
them.。
We all recognize that we have our personal tastes, our biases, the things that we naturally。
lean towards when it comes to your work of the Spirit.。
Lord, I pray that as we open up the passages, as we look at the broader picture, Father,。
you would enable us to open our hearts and our minds to what else is there for us in。
this area.。
And we thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says.。
Amen.。
I want to talk to you about the eight movements that the Spirit does through Scripture.。
There are eight predominant times where the Spirit does something significant to say something。
about Himself and about His work.。
And we're going to look at those eight things as a way of fully understanding His work.。
So the first is found right at the beginning of the Bible in Genesis 1 verse 2.。
And we explained in the first week of our series here at the Vine on the Holy Spirit,。
we talked about how the first time we're introduced to the Spirit is as a Spirit that's hovering。
over creation.。
I'm going to show you eight symbols to help illustrate these eight movements.。
So the first one, look at that.。
Isn't that brilliant?。
The Spirit hovering over creation.。
Now what we see in Genesis 1 and 2 is this perfect picture of the Spirit hovering over。
what the Bible describes as a formless void, a dark creation.。
And we said in week one that what the Spirit is doing in hovering over it is having this。
desire to take something that is formless, bring it into form, and then move it to fullness.。
This is the creative process that you see in Genesis 1 and Genesis 2.。
The Spirit, through the spoken word of God, takes things that are formless, gives them。
form, and then moves them towards their fullness, a place of shalom that God describes as very。
good.。
And so what we see, the first thing we learn about the Holy Spirit hovering over a formless,。
dark kind of void, and then bringing it into this beautiful creation, is that the Spirit's。
intent always is to take disorder and bring it to order.。
The Spirit is at work in that.。
We've been telling you a little bit about that over the last number of weeks, but that's。
the first movement of the Spirit.。
Our introduction to the Spirit is one who takes things that are disordered and moves。
it to order.。
And then we know what happens next, right?。
In Genesis 3, Adam and Eve decide to sin.。
And in their rebellion against what God had called them to do, a division takes place.。
They are actually, as part of that division, they are thrown out of the garden, which really。
was a biblical way of saying out of God's presence.。
So the Spirit was there, hovering over creation, taking things into its perfect order.。
Then sin takes place with humanity, and suddenly a divide comes between humanity and the Spirit。
of God, from humanity and the triune Godhead.。
And that division then basically becomes the movement of the rest of Scripture.。
The rest of Scripture is humanity going, "How do we get back to that relationship we had。
before sin was a reality?"。
And this division and the casting out of humanity from the presence of God becomes humanity's。
big focus.。
This is why, in Genesis 11, they build a tower to try to get back up to that presence.。
They think if they can just get back up to the heavens somewhere, then they can reconcile。
that Spirit and that presence.。
But that's not how God is going to do it.。
In fact, God comes and He breaks down that tower, and He basically says, "We're going。
to do this a different way."。
The next movement, therefore, of the Spirit that we see takes place in Exodus chapter。
three.。
Moses walking around suddenly sees a burning bush.。
The Spirit suddenly manifested beautifully in this burning bush, and Moses goes over。
to it.。
We know what happens, right?。
As he goes over to the burning bush, God calls out from the bush and says, "Moses, Moses,。
don't come any further forward, for the ground that you're standing on is what?。
Holy ground."。
Holy ground.。
Not that Moses was holy, not that the ground was some special kind of ground that was sacred。
and holy.。
No, it was the presence of God, the Spirit of God revealed once more towards humanity。
that became this holy space.。
When God says, "Take off your sandals and step onto this holy ground," what He's saying。
is, "I want to fill the flesh, Moses.。
I want to fill your flesh with My Spirit."。
There's going to be a communing again that was like what it was in the garden before.。
We want to commune now together because God is beginning to change and draw humanity back。
to Himself.。
So the starting point is that the Spirit is disordered, the order.。
The next thing is that He is holy, and that holiness, the holiness of God and the holiness。
of His Spirit becomes the way that humanity understands its separation from the Spirit.。
The next movement is that God then appears by His Spirit on a mountain, Mount Sinai,。
also a part of the Exodus narrative.。
And up on the mountain, something very special takes place.。
On the mountain, the law is given.。
The law is poured out.。
That's the Old Testament.。
First of all, the ten laws, the ten commandments, then eventually the Levitical law, all poured。
out through the power of the presence of the Spirit on a mountain, and only one person,。
Moses, is able to go up into that presence and see God face to face.。
So this one person goes up, sees God face to face, the law is given.。
And the law, this is the best way to understand it.。
The law is birthed by the Spirit to explain to us the character of God.。
Often when we think of the ten commandments, we think the ten commandments are basically。
a bunch of rules to make us live a boring life, right?。
Like a bunch of rules that we have to kind of adhere to or check up on a list just to。
make ourselves feel better or to think that we're going to be in some better relationship。
with God.。
But actually, that's not what the law was about.。
See, the law was actually about kind of communicating to humanity who God is.。
So when God says, "You will have no other God before me," He's explaining His character。
of loyalty and steadfastness.。
When He says, "You will not commit murder," what He's saying about Himself is, "I am a。
God of life.。
I am a God of giving, not a God of taking."。
So each of the laws represents some character of God that God is explaining, and it's the。
Spirit that births the character of God.。
Are you with this still so far?。
Is this okay?。
Okay, hang with me, hang with me.。
Here's the fourth one.。
"Then God instructs them to take the tablets and place them in a box," quite literally,。
the Ark of the Covenant.。
Now this is funny because so often as Christians we're trying to get the Spirit out of a box,。
but here at this moment God puts the Spirit in a box.。
Now why does He do this?。
It's because He wants the Spirit to be with His people.。
But because of sin, there still needs to be a barrier between God and His holiness and。
God's people.。
So He's placed within this box, and His presence now goes forward with His people.。
And because His presence is with His people, their character is there, the people are created。
and made holy, not because they were perfectly holy themselves, but because God's presence。
was amongst them.。
But it's in a box because there are boundaries.。
And if anybody was to open that box, if anyone was to carry that box in the wrong way, if。
anybody was to do something, then they would be kind of completely punished because that。
box was a sacred thing carrying the presence of God, and there was boundaries still between。
humanity and His presence.。
But He had drawn nearer.。
This becomes even more so when you see the next movement.。
The box then gets placed eventually into the temple.。
So David, Solomon, with the vision that they have for the temple and the construction of。
the temple, then the box placed in the heart of the temple itself.。
And as it's placed in there, it's placed in this place called the Holy of Holies.。
And the Holy of Holies was like the inner sanctum of where the Spirit of God was, where。
the Ten Commandments and the Ark of the Covenant sat.。
And in the Holy of Holies, it was separated again from the people with a large, thick。
curtain.。
And once again, only one person could go into the presence of God.。
And this was the priest once a year who had completely purified himself for that journey。
to go into God's presence.。
So there again, God's presence is with His people, but there's a boundary still that。
separates the holiness of God and His people themselves.。
As God's people are taken into exile because of their sin, and Assyria and Babylon come。
and do that and bring them into exile, the temple, the first temple is destroyed.。
And when the temple is destroyed, here's what happens to Israel.。
They're wondering about the Spirit, and they say, "Where is the Spirit?。
Where is the Spirit gone?。
Because of our brokenness and our sin, we're now in exile.。
The temple's been destroyed.。
God's presence has left us."。
And when 70 years later, they're actually released back, and Zerubbabel brings a group。
in the back to start to rebuild the temple.。
They want to rebuild the temple.。
They create the Holy of Holies again.。
The presence of God again falls amongst this curtain, but there's a change in the thinking。
of Israel at this point.。
And they think, "Look, every single time we try to restore our relationship with the presence。
and the Spirit of God, it doesn't seem to work.。
Perhaps only God can do that work."。
And so at this period, although they rebuild the temple and God's presence comes back,。
their thinking is slightly different.。
They're like, "God will need to step in in the future if ever humanity and the Spirit。
will ever reconcile together again."。
And then comes Jesus.。
Jesus, as we know, is the Messiah, the incarnation, fully God and fully human.。
And here's what I want you to think about that.。
This is the fullness now of the Spirit in a human person.。
The incarnation is this beautiful idea that the Spirit is no longer in a bush, it's no。
longer in a mountain, it's no longer in a box, it's no longer in a temple, it's now。
come in a person.。
And it's come in the fullness of a person so that the Spirit and humanity are now this。
picture of reconciliation.。
But note, it's still just one person.。
And Jesus, in living out the fullness of the Spirit within him, does the amazing external。
manifestations that we see, commands nature, walks on water, does the things, heals people,。
multiplies food, does crazy stuff through the power of the Spirit.。
And as he begins to walk out the kingdom, he begins to demonstrate what that kingdom。
could actually look like when the fullness of the Spirit and humanity come together.。
That's the beauty of the incarnation.。
But it's still just one person.。
From the death and resurrection, everything changes.。
And Jesus, in taking on the weight and the burden of sin onto his shoulders, for the。
wages of sin is death.。
As he takes that into death and is raised again to new life on the third day, sin now。
has been dealt with.。
The very thing that had separated the Spirit from humanity now dealt with.。
This is why, actually, he turns to the disciples in his resurrection and says, "Don't go anywhere.。
Wait, because I'm about to send you the thing that you truly need."。
He's like, "I need to actually go from here so that you will receive the fullness of this。
thing that I'm about to send to you."。
And so he does.。
He sends them the Holy Spirit, Acts chapter 2, and they begin to manifest the beauty of。
the gospel through human languages.。
And many people in Jerusalem at that time begin to turn and hear the gospel together。
for the first time.。
It is this beautiful idea that the Spirit now begins to get poured out on people, fulfilling。
the prophecy of Joel that would say, "In those days, the Spirit would come upon all flesh,"。
fulfilling the prophecy of Isaiah, who would say, "There is a time coming where the Spirit。
of the Lord will be upon me so I can preach good news to the poor."。
And these things all begin to come together as the disciples themselves experience the。
fullness of the Spirit within them.。
And they realize that there's no longer any separation anymore.。
This is why Paul, then, when he's writing to the church, he writes this most profound。
theological idea.。
No one in history had ever said this before.。
He says, "Don't you realize that you are now the temple of the Holy Spirit?"。
He's like, "It's not a building anymore.。
Oh, back in the old times, we needed the separation because we could not enter the holiness of。
God without sin having been dealt with, but now sin has been dealt with, so don't you。
realize that the Spirit is now happy to make His home within you?。
Happy to come and have that fullness of the Spirit and the fullness of humanity, no longer。
just in the incarnation of Christ, but in the church itself."。
Which is why I love this symbol.。
See all the people with the Spirit inside of them there?。
They look like bowling pins.。
They're not bowling pins.。
Those are people filled with the Spirit.。
Which is why, then, Paul writes to the church and he says, "Don't you know that the same。
Spirit that raised Jesus from the dead is now inside of you?"。
He then writes and says, "No one is able to say Jesus is Lord unless the Spirit enables。
them to say it."。
He's like, "The Spirit now.。
There's no barrier.。
There's no brokenness.。
There's no separation.。
We are now all filled with the Spirit of God.。
And yes, it's the external manifestations, and we give grace for that, but it's also。
the internal transformation that is at work.。
I can see the Spirit, and I can confess the Spirit because of the Spirit."。
So that's how Scripture would describe the movement, the eight primary movements of the。
Spirit, all to communicate that now the fullness of that Spirit is here with us.。
Now, that's a very quick overview, but let me give you two important things of it.。
The first is, I want you to see through all of this that there is a trajectory of the。
Spirit desiring to get closer and closer to you.。
Are you with me?。
So from the start, it's like, okay, just hovering over everything, but then the narrative of。
Scripture, if you follow it from Genesis to Revelation, is the Spirit basically pursuing。
you.。
The Spirit getting closer and closer and closer and closer, and when Jesus does the death。
and the resurrection, pays the price for sin, then within us, the Spirit is constantly on。
your pursuit.。
And this is a beautiful thing, because what the Scriptures really kind of teach us about。
the Spirit is that it's for our good.。
It's for our benefit to connect us with Jesus, who connects us to the Father.。
The Spirit manifests the person and the character of Jesus, which is what the Spirit has always。
done with the law that was given on Mount Sinai.。
Then in Pentecost, which we're celebrating next week, the law is now written on the tablets。
of our heart and poured out by the Spirit.。
In other words, the character of God is now not just written on some stone tablets, it's。
actually written within me.。
But I get to see and feel that Spirit at work now within me, and it is a profound thing.。
The brokenness of Andrew and the fullness of the Spirit as one.。
And the reason why that's important is because when you think about it that way, the Spirit。
is always to connect you to Jesus, it's always to connect you to the Father, it's always。
for your good.。
Which is really interesting, because I've struggled many times in my Christian life。
with fear when it comes to the Spirit.。
Anyone else ever felt that way?。
A little bit fearful of the Spirit?。
I know I have.。
I've had season where I'm like, I'm not sure if I want to pray and invite the Spirit to。
come more, because I don't want to bark like a dog.。
Right?。
Like, I don't want to do a weird thing.。
I've seen at times the Spirit do weird things to people, and I don't want to be doing weird。
things.。
That's embarrassing.。
So I've held myself back from the fullness of the Spirit at times out of fear.。
I wonder if that resonates with anyone here.。
But when the Scriptures teach us that the Spirit is always pursuing us, when the Scriptures。
teach us that the Spirit is leading us to Jesus, when we know that everything the Spirit。
has for us is for our good, Paul's like, why wouldn't we welcome it?。
Why wouldn't we eagerly desire the spiritual gifts?。
Why wouldn't we want the Spirit to fall on us and be a part of us?。
And if you're struggling here today with any sense of fear around the Holy Spirit, I can't。
wait to be able to pray with you in a moment.。
Because I believe that the Lord wants to do something significant by breaking off the。
fear that I think we can so easily hold.。
The reality is, the fear around the Holy Spirit is a strategy of the enemy.。
And as we stand together as a community and break off that stronghold that can easily。
be upon us, I believe we will be freer for the external manifestations and the internal。
transformation that the Spirit wants to bring.。
Is that okay?。
Okay, that's the first thing.。
Here's the second thing.。
I want you to come have a look at this.。
I want to explain now, before we go into prayer, exactly what all of this is saying to us about。
the work of the Spirit in fullness.。
Now I'm going to do the work of the Spirit in like a little Spirit bubble like that,。
but we actually know that it's a person, right?。
The Spirit is a person.。
We've talked about that in the series so far.。
But I want to explain to you what we see in this whole eight movements of the Spirit and。
how it begins to show us something quite significant that's taking place in the work.。
So there are actually two, that now looks like a tree by the way, but it's not a tree.。
Just bear with me.。
So what we see is that the Spirit is in the world.。
The Scriptures in that overview I gave us would teach us that the Spirit is actually。
in the world.。
In fact, the way it's described in Genesis as the ruach, it's a Hebrew word which means。
breath or wind.。
The idea that the Spirit is the breath that brings all of creation alive.。
In fact, it is the sustainer of all life.。
So the Spirit sustains and brings to life everything, holds everything in its heart,。
holds everything in its ability to be able to breathe, have its function, and have its。
being.。
So the Spirit is in the world so that everything might find life.。
Paul would later write in Romans chapter 8, Romans 8, this idea of like, hey, there's。
creation itself and it's groaning and longing for its own reconciliation, its own redemption。
with the Lord.。
There's this longing in it.。
And we see that the biggest picture of this is, as I've already explained, the incarnation,。
the power that there is in humanity and the Spirit now in the world together manifested。
in that beautiful way of the external and the internal that is at work.。
So the Scriptures teach us that the Spirit is in the world.。
Does that make sense?。
But the Scriptures also show us that the Spirit is upon the world.。
This is slightly different and it's important to understand the differences.。
So the Spirit in the world, the breath sustaining all life, the incarnation and its greatest。
expression, but the Spirit is also upon the world.。
We saw that with the hovering element.。
We see that in the prophetic words of Joel and Isaiah where they long for, as Joel would。
say that the Spirit in those days will be poured out upon all flesh, the idea that the。
Spirit moves upon.。
But this is seen most dramatically actually in the death and resurrection moment where。
the curtain, I can't spell, where the curtain in the temple is split from top to bottom.。
So in the moment where Jesus gives up his life, the curtain splits from top to bottom.。
Now the question we should ask is why does the curtain split from top to bottom?。
It splits, yes, so that humanity is now symbolically invited in to the presence of God, but the。
split is also there to illustrate that this presence now can come out into the world.。
So there is an in towards the Spirit by the cutting of the curtain, but there also is。
a releasing of the Spirit into the world through the beauty of that as well.。
This is really important because if you believe that the Spirit is upon the world and you。
believe that the Spirit is in the world, that means that when you wake up tomorrow and you。
go into your workplace, the Spirit is as much there as it is here right now.。
Are you following this?。
This is theologically really important so that when you get up and go to work tomorrow,。
you have the same expectations.。
It may not be worship music, it may be a board meeting, it may be a classroom, it may be。
whatever it is for you, but you can also think that the Spirit is as much at work in this。
place as he was yesterday at the vine.。
I think God wants to, in this time of uncharted, make sure that we're expectant in the community。
as much as we are in this community.。
Only me who is excited about that.。
Now, this is where I'm going to finish.。
Notice this.。
The same of what the Spirit has done in the world, he has also done in us.。
The Spirit is also in you.。
You can look at it later, but in 1 Corinthians 12, 3, in 1 Corinthians 6, 19, Paul basically。
says the same thing, that we are able to say that Jesus is Lord because of the work of。
the Spirit in us.。
So the Spirit is in you to bring you to salvation, first and foremost, and then Paul says it。
is sanctification, the ongoing work of the Spirit to make us more and more like his son。
Christ Jesus, and that is Ephesians chapter 4.。
Now in this process of sanctification, he gives us what's called the fruits of the Spirit,。
the Spirit that actually bears fruit inside of us, Galatians 5.22, and Ellison is going。
to preach and teach more on that fruit of the Spirit next week.。
So the Spirit is in you for salvation and sanctification.。
Helpful?。
But the Spirit is also at times upon you, and the Spirit comes upon you for various。
different things.。
This is seen predominantly, again, you can look at 1 Corinthians 12, 1 Corinthians 14,。
where it speaks ideally around the ideas of the gifts, the gifts of the Spirit and how。
the gifts of the Spirit are at work in us, upon us, using us.。
Now, the important thing is that the upon you work of the Spirit is to essentially do。
this thing.。
It's to empower you.。
So where the Spirit is in you for salvation and sanctification, the Spirit comes upon。
you to empower you.。
And the question is, why and what is it empowering?。
Well, the Bible would suggest two areas.。
First of all, kingdom advancement.。
This is what we see in the life of Jesus.。
It's what we see in the life of the church.。
The Spirit pours out upon his people and prophetic words come.。
Prophetic words that help people to understand who God is, prophetic words that maybe changes。
something in someone's life, a word of knowledge that actually changes somebody's life dramatically.。
Jesus' miracles performed to inaugurate the kingdom, the church now embracing the miraculous。
to show the world signs of the kingdom that is here, the kingdom advancement empowered。
by the Spirit that is upon us.。
But then also, it speaks about the idea of victory over sin.。
Now, of course, in Jesus' death and resurrection, sin is defeated.。
But I think we all know that sometimes sin has a stronghold in us.。
Sometimes sin can become habitual for us.。
And as much as we might try to fight it, we realize that there's a weakness to us.。
The Spirit comes upon us at times to bring us greater victory over sin, particularly。
where there's strongholds or there's habitual sin that we've not been able to break at any。
point in time.。
So the Spirit is in you and the Spirit is upon you.。
Is that helpful?。
All right, five of you.。
Good.。
Now, notice this.。
Here's what we actually do.。
We put all of these things into boxes and we find our preferences.。
And so for some of you, like I said earlier, you're like fully comfortable in this space。
right here.。
But this idea kind of freaks you out a little bit.。
Or maybe you're very comfortable in this space because that's how you were brought up.。
Maybe you've been in a church environment where that's really clear.。
But this whole sort of fruit of the Spirit sanctification thing, you're not quite sure。
about that.。
Maybe, again, you don't believe that God can be as powerful in your workplace as He is。
for 90 minutes at the vine on a Sunday.。
We can all have our boxes.。
And what I'm trying to say to us today is that if we're really going to embrace the。
work of the Spirit, it needs to be in all of these areas in our world and in our lives.。
In the world, upon the world, in you, upon you.。
Helpful?。
All right.。
So that was like the intro.。
I'm freaking you out now.。
This is the main course.。
Because I've just unpacked a bunch of theological stuff for you, which is helpful and interesting,。
I hope.。
But the reality is God does all of this so that He can transform and change us, culture,。
society, the world.。
The good news of Jesus Christ is not that a church changes anything, but Jesus changes。
it.。
The good news of Jesus Christ is not that a person can heal another person, but that。
the Spirit of God can heal someone.。
The good news of Jesus Christ is that it all is about Him.。
And He does all of this, not so, and we said this the other week, not so He can show off,。
but so that He can act.。
So He can take us from a place of brokenness to greater freedom.。
So that He can take us from a place of darkness to a place of light, where He can take the。
disorder in us and bring it into order.。
And that's what we want to do now.。
We've got 25 minutes.。
Can you believe it?。
I hope you're excited.。
I'm excited.。
We're going to have a prayer team in the upper house.。
We're going to have a prayer team here in the lower house.。
We're going to have some people at the front.。
There's going to be some people here.。
There's going to be some people around here.。
And here's what we're going to do.。
No one's going to be forced to do anything, but if you would like to receive prayer, maybe。
for you it's like, you know what?。
I've got too much fear.。
I've got too much fear and it's holding me back from this box right here, and I would。
love someone to pray for me and to release that fear.。
Or maybe you're looking for more of the fruit to be at work in your life, and you'd like。
someone to stand for you and pray for the fruit to manifest.。
Maybe you want more expectation for your workplace, and you want someone to come around you and。
stand with you.。
Maybe there's some habitual sin that's going on, and you're like, you know what?。
I've ignored it for too long.。
I've tried to battle it in my own strength.。
I've built my own Tower of Babel.。
Nothing is working.。
I need the Spirit to break me free.。
I'd love to do that.。
We would love to do that with you today.。
So whatever it might mean for you, how is it that you would like to receive prayer?。
And this is what we're going to do.。
We're just going to enable a time of prayer.。
There's going to be some worship happening, so if you're not being prayed for, if you。
just want to worship, maybe reflect on what we've taught today, invite the Spirit to be。
with you in worship.。
If you'd like to come forward for prayer in a moment, we're going to do that for you as。
well.。
So why don't we all stand together?。
And I'm just going to invite our pastors and prayer leaders and elders just to be available,。
whether that's to come to the front here or just on the sides in the upper house at the。
front and the back.。
I wonder whether we just all open our hands if you're comfortable to do so, and I'm going。
to pray and then we're going to invite you to respond.。
Father, we are standing before you as your people, and we're so grateful that we're at。
the part of the biblical story where the Spirit is at work in us, where the Spirit, because。
of Christ's death and resurrection, is fully here for us.。
And Father, we stand here at the Vine on the first Sunday of June 2025, and we say, "Come。
Holy Spirit.。
Come Holy Spirit.。
Come Holy Spirit."。
We pray you would break fear in the name of Jesus.。
We pray you would bring healings in the name of Jesus.。
We pray that the miraculous would be manifested here in the name of Jesus.。
We pray for sanctification, salvation, the fruit of the Spirit.。
We pray for our workplaces.。
We pray for the places of influence you've given us.。
We pray that the Spirit would be in and upon the world, in and upon us, and we pray this。
fervently.。
So I encourage you to be brave.。
You'd like to receive prayer, you can just make your way out and come forward, both in。
the upper house, again, here in the overflow, you can come on into the room as well.。
And we're just gonna take time to pray for each one of you personally.。
So anybody who'd like to receive personal prayer, please come forward.。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
