Amen, amen, amen.。
Well, I'm really excited that this afternoon。
we get to host one of our speakers。
that's been with us this whole weekend.。
And as I said earlier, we've had about 35 different speakers。
throughout the course of this time during the conference.。
And it's been such a joy to hear from different perspectives。
and just different people and different backgrounds.。
But each person brought their own story.。
Each person brought their own context.。
And one of the people that when we were thinking。
about curating this conference。
and wanting to make sure that we were hearing。
from the right voices,。
you can understand that there's so much。
that's happening around the world,。
but there's voices that we need to hear from。
at times like this.。
And Dr. Lamaman Soor was a person that we were led to.。
I actually, she was recommended to us。
by a good friend of ours who does work in the Middle East,。
a work of peace and reconciliation in the land there.。
And they said, look, you have to get this lady,。
you have to get her voice into the conference.。
And so I did the right thing and Googled,。
that's what you do these days.。
And sat and watched a talk that she gave on lament。
at a conference in the Middle East.。
And it just blew me away.。
And she's a Palestinian Christian based in Nazareth.。
She is a social scientist by background,。
has a doctorate and master's from Oxford,。
as well as a bachelor's degree in psychology。
from the University of Haifa.。
But I think more than any of that,。
she is a pastoral prophetic voice in a time。
on behalf of her own people,。
in a time where her people are facing。
such horrendous oppression.。
And for her to take some time to come out of that。
and come here and just be present with us。
over this weekend is a profound gift for us.。
And it's important that we open our hearts。
to what is happening around the world.。
But the thing that's so beautiful about Lama,。
despite just what her people are facing at this time,。
the gift of hope that sits within her is truly profound.。
And so I'm gonna shut up。
because I'm just so excited that we can welcome her.。
So can we put our hands together as Lama comes?。
(congregation applauding)。
And we're gonna pray for you.。
Let's stretch out our hands.。
Actually, why don't we stand?。
I think that would be the honorable thing to do.。
Why don't we stretch out our hands and pray for Lama?。
Her name is spelt like the island Lama,。
just want you to know.。
She was very excited when she discovered that, weren't you?。
You were very excited about that, okay.。
Father, just thank you so much for Lama。
and for just what she represents, Lord.。
We thank you for her people.。
And we know that they're going through a horrendous time.。
Lord, we lift them before you now.。
Father, we stand in solidarity.。
We pray that you would move our hearts and our lips.。
And Father, as we sit under this teaching this afternoon,。
we pray that you would speak to us personally.。
Lord, each one of us has a journey and a story.。
And so as Lama shares from hers and from her people,。
Lord, would we connect ours to it。
and feel that incredibly profound thing that happens。
in the body of Christ around the world,。
unity and solidarity together as we hear from you.。
We thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, amen, amen.。
- Good afternoon.。
I'm just so grateful this afternoon for the Vine,。
for everyone here, for this weekend,。
for Pastor Andrew and all of the team at the Vine.。
I've been, I was just sharing with the team。
that I've never been prayed for。
as much as I have been in this weekend.。
And I just feel covered by the Holy Spirit。
and I know that there's a lot of work。
that has been done in that.。
I've just, yeah, just your hospitality,。
your warmth has touched me very, very much.。
So thank you, thank you for your heart.。
I don't know if you know, but today, the 21st of September,。
is the United Nations International Day of Peace.。
So it's a day that the global organizations。
have set aside for the pursuit of peace.。
And for us as Palestinians, especially at a time like this,。
it's difficult to talk and think about peace.。
For us in the land, peace and justice。
feel like a distant dream,。
not realistic goals that can be achieved anytime soon.。
The famous Palestinian poet, Mahmoud Darwish,。
talks about, he has a saying.。
In Arabic, he says, (speaking in foreign language)。
Meaning, peace for a land that has been made for peace,。
but has never seen peace.。
This is our heart.。
For almost two years, our region has been embroiled。
in violence we couldn't have imagined.。
I'm sure you've followed the news.。
1,200 Israelis killed on October 7th, 2023,。
around 600 of which were civilians, non-combatants.。
Hundreds wounded and taken hostage into Gaza,。
many of whom are still waiting to be released.。
Their families have such deep pain。
waiting for them to return.。
Many communities have been torn apart。
by the violence that day.。
In the Gaza Strip, the destruction is unbelievable.。
Since that day, over 60,000 Palestinians。
in the Gaza Strip have been killed by Israel.。
Tens of thousands wounded, hundreds arrested。
and tortured in detention centers.。
Entire families were wiped out from the civil registry.。
Homes and schools and hospitals and universities。
and churches and mosques have been bombed.。
By one estimate, Israel has dropped。
over 70,000 tons of munitions on Gaza.。
Keep in mind that the Gaza Strip is tiny。
and it's very, very dense.。
It's almost as dense as Hong Kong.。
People's entire lives have been turned upside down.。
And this, of course, comes after decades of siege,。
of occupation, of systemic supremacy across the land.。
In the last two years, you've probably only heard。
about Gaza, but in the West Bank,。
on the other side of the land,。
where places like Bethlehem, Ramallah and Jericho are.。
So there, Israel also continues to occupy the West Bank,。
building illegal settlements across the land,。
basically fracturing communities, dividing communities.。
I don't know if we, yeah.。
So you can see in the map just the number。
of settlements that are built and you can see how that,。
there's no way to move from Ramallah to Bethlehem。
without passing many checkpoints.。
And of course, these settlers are not just simply there。
and like being good neighbors,。
just on land that's not theirs.。
They're also violent towards Palestinians.。
So scenes of settlers coming to attack people。
in their homes have just become routine。
in the past few months.。
So there's much to talk about when it comes。
to Israel and Palestine.。
We can talk about the histories of the region,。
the different starting points of narratives,。
the intricacies of current events,。
and the future visions that seem possible。
or impossible at the moment.。
And entire books have been written about that.。
I'm not gonna try to do that.。
But in the time I have with you this morning,。
I want to offer a different perspective on that.。
I want to ask how can followers of Christ。
respond to these realities I've just described to you?。
How can we respond to realities of violence。
and oppression as followers of Christ?。
Are there certain themes in scripture。
that we can draw upon that can offer us。
a way into this question?。
This afternoon, I want to suggest this idea。
of bearing witness as a tool for faithfully pursuing。
justice and peace, specifically in the case of my homeland.。
To bear witness is different。
than just watching something happen.。
It's to give an account, a testimony.。
It goes beyond simply seeing something,。
happen, it's acting on the experience of seeing something.。
It's demonstrating a type of embodied solidarity.。
And I think this is what our faith calls us to do.。
And to examine this, I want to look into the story of Rispa.。
I don't know how many of you know who Rispa is.。
But she's not a biblical character。
that we talk about often.。
Her story kind of is obscure in the Bible.。
And sometimes it's described as tragic, as harrowing.。
I find it to be a story of bravery, of courage.。
I actually find it to be a deeply Palestinian story,。
one that connects so profoundly with the realities。
that we see on the ground today.。
So I'll want to read from 2 Samuel.。
If you open your Bibles, I didn't give the team the text.。
So 2 Samuel chapter 21 from verse one.。
It says, "During the reign of David,。
"there was a famine for three successive years.。
"So David sought the face of the Lord.。
"The Lord said, 'It is on account of Saul。
"'and his blood-stained house.。
"'It's because he put the Gibeonites to death.'。
"The king summoned the Gibeonites and spoke to them.。
"Now the Gibeonites were not a part of Israel,。
"but were survivors of the Amorites.。
"The Israelites had sworn to spare them.。
"But Saul and his zeal for Israel and Judah。
"had tried to annihilate them.。
"David asked the Gibeonites, 'What shall I do for you?。
"'How shall I make atonement。
"'so that you will bless the Lord's inheritance?'。
"The Gibeonites answered him,。
"'We have no right to demand silver or gold。
"'from Saul or his family,。
"'nor do we have the right to put anyone in Israel to death.。
"'What do you want me to do for you?' David asked.。
"They answered the king, 'As for the man who destroyed us。
"'and plotted against us, that we have been decimated。
"'and have no place anywhere in Israel,。
"'let seven of his male descendants be given to us。
"'to be killed and their bodies exposed before the Lord。
"'at Gibeah of Saul, the Lord's chosen one.'。
"So the king said, 'I will give them to you.'。
"The king spared Mephibosheth, son of Jonathan,。
"the son of Saul, because of the oath before the Lord。
"between David and Jonathan, son of Saul.。
"But the king took Armoni and Mephibosheth,。
"the two sons of Aiah's daughter Rispa,。
"whom she had born to Saul,。
"together with the five sons of Saul's daughter Merab,。
"who had born, she had born to Adriel,。
"son of Barzillai, the Mehalothite.。
"He handed them over to the Gibeonites,。
"who killed them and exposed their bodies。
"on a hill before the Lord.。
"All seven of them fell together.。
"They were put to death during the first days。
"of the harvest, just as the barley harvest was beginning."。
This is where I want you to pay attention.。
"Rispa, daughter of Aiah, took sackcloth。
"and spread it out for herself on a rock.。
"From the beginning of the harvest。
"till the rain poured down from the heavens on the bodies,。
"she did not let the birds touch them by day。
"or the wild animals by night.。
"When David was told what Aiah's daughter Rispa,。
"Saul's concubine, had done,。
"he went and took the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan。
"from the citizens of Jebuskelad."。
I'll go down to the end of the passage.。
"They buried the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan。
"in the tomb of Saul's father Kish,。
"at Zila and Benjamin,。
"and did everything the king commanded.。
"After that, God answered the prayer。
"in behalf of the land."。
Let's pray.。
Lord, speak to us.。
Through your word, your word is holy,。
your word is powerful.。
Lord, speak to us.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
I'll give a bit of context to the passage.。
To understand the story of Rispa,。
we need to go back to the days of Joshua.。
During Joshua's time, a peace treaty was made。
between the Israelites and a people group。
called the Gibeonites,。
vowing not to cause them harm.。
Yet it seemed that King Saul, during his reign,。
killed many Gibeonites.。
We're not told this in the Bible, but we can assume.。
And this violation of the treaty。
brought about a famine to the land,。
three-year famine to the land.。
This was during the reign of King David.。
So King David, he wants to remedy the situation,。
he wants to end the famine.。
He sends after the Gibeonites and asks them,。
what can I do for you, how can I remedy the situation?。
The Gibeonites ask for seven descendants of King Saul。
to kill as retribution.。
King David complies with this request。
and hands over seven young men,。
two of them the sons of Rispa, daughters, sorry,。
yeah, two of them the sons of Rispa,。
and five the sons of Saul's daughter, Merab.。
The text tells us that these seven young men。
are killed publicly.。
Some people might say lynched.。
And their bodies are taken up the hill and exposed,。
left to the elements.。
The bodies are not buried properly,。
in violation of religious and cultural norms of the time.。
And this is where Rispa comes in.。
She stages a protest.。
She does an extraordinary thing.。
She's a concubine, she's a sort of a lower status wife,。
but she takes sackcloth as a sign of mourning,。
spreads it out on a rock, on the hill where the bodies lay,。
and she refuses to move.。
The text is quite poetic in how it describes her actions.。
It says, "From the beginning of the harvest。
"till the rain poured down from the heavens,。
"she did not let the birds touch them by day,。
"or the wild animals by night."。
Theologian Wilda Gaffney describes this as follows.。
She says, "Rispa fights with winged,。
"clawed, and toothed scavengers night and day,。
"sleeping, eating, toileting, protecting,。
"and bearing witness."。
Bearing witness.。
What an extraordinary act of courage.。
She stood guard over those bodies.。
A woman on her own, despite the significant threat。
that puts her in, right?。
We can also imagine how heartbreaking that was for Rispa,。
to be sitting there with the injustice that was done to her。
day and night, not knowing whether her actions。
will bear any fruit.。
And the King David, his heart is convicted with this.。
And when he hears what Rispa has done,。
he makes arrangements for the bones to be buried properly,。
to be collected and buried with proper dignity.。
And the story, I don't know if you paid attention to this,。
the story ends with, "After that,。
"only after the bodies are buried,。
"God answered prayer on behalf of the land."。
So the blessing doesn't come with the killing,。
comes with the healing.。
As I mentioned in the beginning,。
I see the story of Rispa's sons unfolding in Palestine today.。
For over a year now, or for over almost two years now,。
Palestinians in Gaza have told us that to die whole。
is a luxury not afforded to many.。
To be buried and grieved has become a privilege。
most people do not have.。
A young lady by the name of Mariam Khatib,。
she's from Gaza, she says, "No one dies complete.。
"After a missile strike, everyone searches in the debris。
"to put their loved ones back together.。
"To be a good mother in the rest of the world。
"is to feed your children good food and keep them warm.。
"But to be a good mother in Gaza。
"is to bury your children whole."。
Mariam went on to describe how her friend, Bouthaina,。
a young woman, a smart young woman。
with a dream to go to medical school,。
was killed by the army.。
Mariam wrote, "I didn't get to cry for her.。
"I didn't get to walk in her funeral.。
"I didn't get to put her body in a grave。
"and visit it every day and lay a rose."。
So as Palestinians, we're very familiar。
with the heartbreak of Rizpa's story.。
The horrors of Rizpa's story are represented today。
across the land.。
The bodies of the seven young men on the hill。
are reflected in the bodies buried under the rubble in Gaza,。
reflected in the bodies of children killed in the West Bank.。
What Rizpa did is bear witness.。
She bore witness to injustice。
and ultimately brought about healing to the land.。
I want to reflect on this text in three points.。
In each, I'll connect what we see in Rizpa's story。
to the realities in my homeland,。
and hopefully that will also give you some idea。
on how you can pray for peace in our land and in yours.。
First, Rizpa bore witness against erasure,。
the erasure of her sons as human beings。
made in the image of God.。
The way those bodies were left on the hill。
was meant to strip the young men of their humanity.。
In Arabic, we say, "Ikram al-mayyad dafno,"。
meaning to give the dead dignity is to bury them.。
The refusal to bury the young men。
was the ultimate sign of humiliation,。
that they are not even considered worthy。
of a proper burial.。
Their lives were considered expendable,。
pawns in a political game.。
Through her vigil, Rizpa fought against that erasure.。
She fought against the attempt to erase her children,。
to dismiss what was done to them.。
She insisted on being recognized.。
She insisted that these young men's lives。
were worthy of grief,。
that they needed to be treated with dignity,。
even in their deaths.。
Throughout the last decades,。
as Palestinians, we've been erased from public discourse.。
Our lives considered expendable.。
Daily reports of Palestinians killed,。
they remain under the radar,。
or when it's reported, it's just numbers, right?。
Statistics, nameless and faceless.。
The numbers, even the numbers of our dead。
are regularly doubted, the perpetrator rarely named.。
So you'll hear in the media,。
Palestinians die as a result of lack of food, starved.。
Palestinians are evacuated, not forcibly displaced.。
Bombs fall, not are dropped intentionally.。
This use of this passive language again and again。
serves to dehumanize us,。
so that our suffering can be justified and explained away.。
Nowadays, our future is discussed and debated。
without a second thought to what we actually want.。
That's erasure.。
Gaza is being reimagined as a business opportunity。
for Donald Trump.。
Palestinians are merely pawns to be moved。
to wherever foreign politicians wish them to be moved.。
This is erasure.。
It pains me to say, but in some Christian circles,。
Palestinians are erased.。
Many Christians believe that the modern state day of Israel。
is the same Israel in the Bible,。
and so to stand with Israel is to stand with God.。
In this theology, Palestinians are either completely erased。
from the narrative, or as are vilified as obstacles。
to the fulfillment of prophecy.。
Rather than being treated as fellow image bearers,。
we are cast aside.。
Theologies that directly impact our lives。
are discussed without us being present.。
There was a video that popped up on my feed the other day.。
It was a pastor who was explaining。
why we need to support the war,。
and it was a seven minute video.。
He had seven minutes, and he could have gone on for more.。
Palestinians were not even mentioned,。
let alone talk of peace, of reconciliation,。
of justice, of dignity, of mercy.。
Many Christians do not even know。
that Palestinian Christians like me exist.。
Many come to visit the land。
and end up visiting the dead stones,。
ignoring the living stones.。
Yes, we do exist.。
We have existed for centuries,。
and we're committed to carrying the message of Christ。
and advancing God's kingdom。
to all those who live in the land.。
We're committed to loving our neighbors,。
whether they're Muslim, Jewish, Druze, or atheists.。
An erasure is not just an oversight.。
It has real life consequences, right?。
When a people group is ignored,。
it's easier to justify complicity。
in their oppression and suffering.。
This leads to a situation where Christians, churches,。
are some of the most ardent supporters。
for land theft in the West Bank.。
I just showed you the settlement, the settlements.。
These settlements require money to build them,。
and a lot of that money, unfortunately,。
is coming from churches.。
I want to tell you about two families in the West Bank.。
Al-Qasiyah family in Makhrur Valley.。
This is on the outskirts of Bethlehem.。
They're a Christian family who have been kicked out。
by settlers from their homes.。
And this is Alice.。
She's one of the daughters of that family,。
and she does a lot of advocacy work。
trying to raise awareness about what's happening。
in her home.。
The other family is the Nassar family.。
If you ever get to come to Bethlehem, to Palestine,。
you can go and visit their farm.。
They have a land that is consistently。
under the threat of displacement.。
They face threats almost daily.。
People coming to attack them, try to steal their land.。
But they have a farm that's just outside of Bethlehem,。
and they are committed to loving their neighbors.。
You walk in and you can see the verse from the Bible。
saying, "Love your enemy."。
We refuse to be enemies.。
They insist on their farm being a place of peacemaking,。
of bridge building, of healing.。
What does it mean then to bear witness against erasure?。
As Rispa did, we bear witness by opening our eyes。
to the suffering of our neighbors,。
despite the pain it may cause.。
We refuse to see them as less than human beings。
made in the image of God, beloved children of God.。
To be a peacemaker does not mean we gloss over the facts,。
or we live in a la-la land.。
No, as peacemakers we must be able to tell the truth.。
To not be afraid to confront harsh realities,。
wherever they may be.。
In Hong Kong, in Palestine, wherever else.。
Second, Rispa bore witness against the apathy of her people.。
So if we look in the text, scholars note that Rispa。
held her vigil for about three to five months, right?。
From the beginning of the harvest to the end.。
We can assume that she encountered a lot of apathy.。
Otherwise, she wouldn't have needed to stay there。
for so long, right?。
I can imagine her on that hill,。
people passing by her, working, eating, drinking,。
just going about their daily lives,。
all while Rispa stood guard over those bodies.。
Yet she refused to concede to that apathy.。
She wailed over the hill, reminding people。
of the injustice that has been done.。
The text is clear.。
Day and night, she stood steadfast, resilient.。
Similarly, we often feel that many people。
are apathetic to our plight.。
That people don't care what happens to us,。
or are caught in the news cycle。
that quickly moves on to the next big thing.。
I've encountered people who assume that our region。
is just bound to be at war.。
I've heard statements like,。
"It's just what happens over there.。
"It's a troublesome neighborhood.。
"There's always violence going on in the Middle East."。
Can you hear how dehumanizing that is?。
Other people cover their apathy with spiritual language.。
So, some people say, "There won't be true peace。
"until Jesus comes anyway."。
And so, they let themselves off the hook。
of their duty as Christians to be peacemakers.。
We can't let ourselves off the hook.。
Palestinian theologian Rula Khoury Mansour,。
she reminds us of our role as followers of Christ.。
She says, "The fact that God has ultimate control。
"of all injustice doesn't release us。
"from our responsibility and mission.。
"Our mission, similar to Jesus',。
"involves being sent to the world to love,。
"serve, teach, heal, save, and free."。
And as Christians, we are especially entangled,。
and I'll tell you why.。
In these past two years,。
we have heard Christian language be used。
to justify war, to justify violence.。
The AI system that Israel uses。
to detect where to drop the bombs,。
do you know what it's called?。
It's called the gospel.。
The good news of Jesus twisted.。
The name of the campaign that is going on right now。
to invade Gaza City, where the Palestinian Christians。
of Gaza are sheltering in the two churches,。
in the Orthodox Church and the Catholic Church.。
All of the Christians are sheltered there.。
There's an operation right now。
that the Israeli army is doing。
to invade that area and to attack in that area.。
Do you know what that campaign is called?。
Gideon's Chariots.。
The use of our Bible, our beloved Bible, friends,。
to justify violence, to give theological cover.。
As Christians, we're entangled in this.。
Martin Luther King, when he wrote the letter。
from Birmingham jail, he was responding to questions。
why he was in Birmingham.。
Birmingham is not his city, right?。
But he was there protesting racial injustice。
and segregation.。
He simply replied, "I'm in Birmingham。
"because injustice is here."。
And he continued, "Injustice anywhere。
"is a threat to justice everywhere."。
We are caught in this, and I love this phrase,。
in an inescapable network of mutuality。
tied in a single garment of destiny.。
Whatever affects one directly affects all indirectly.。
And what Jesus said about the body,。
when one part is hurting, the whole body is hurting.。
And we feel your hurt, and we know that you feel our hurt.。
None of us gets to be apathetic,。
especially as the body of Christ.。
To return to our text, Rispa stood on the hill.。
She did not relent in the face of apathy.。
And scholars point out that the name Rispa means hot coal.。
You know what hot coal represents in the Bible?。
Holiness.。
A call to repentance, right?。
So by her public action, Rispa was acting。
as her name implies.。
She was a hot coal reviving the conscience。
of her community, calling them to acknowledge。
the complicity and the injustice done to these young men.。
Here I want to note two peculiar things.。
First, Rispa stood vigil not only over her two sons,。
but over all seven of them, right?。
There were seven there, only two were hers.。
She led by example, not only caring for her own kin,。
but all those impacted by the injustice.。
And I wonder, did Merab not, why wasn't Merab there?。
Five of her sons were killed.。
We don't know, but I love that image.。
That Rispa was standing there for the people。
who couldn't stand there.。
For everyone.。
I love how South African theologian Alan Bosak。
describes the scene.。
He says, "Rispa says only two children。
"on those crosses are mine.。
"I don't care.。
"Every child on the cross is my child.。
"As long as there is one single child。
"on the cross of pain, of indignity,。
"of suffering and futurelessness,。
"I will stand up and I will fight for that child.。
"Don't ask me whether he is my child.。
"He may not carry my name, but he is my child.。
"She is my child.。
"This is what solidarity means.。
"Every child on a cross is my child."。
This is the spirit of Rispa.。
For us as Palestinian Christians,。
this means we do not get to care only for our kin.。
We don't get to care only for the Palestinian Christians。
or only for the Palestinian victims。
of violence and oppression.。
We insist that every human being。
impacted by this violence,。
Israeli or Palestinian or otherwise,。
is made in the image of God,。
a beloved human being made in the image of God,。
worthy of dignity and honor.。
Every child is our child.。
Everyone who lives between the Jordan River。
and the Mediterranean Sea deserves to live a life。
that is full of safety,。
to have the opportunity to prosper and flourish.。
This is our mission as children of God.。
The second peculiar thing is that those men are already dead.。
Nothing she was gonna do was gonna bring them back to life.。
But Rispa knew that this wasn't about。
bringing the dead to life.。
It was about the conscience of her community.。
What does it mean that this grave injustice happened。
and the community didn't care?。
This was about the community.。
This was about the living, not the dead.。
Notice that God heeds the prayers for the land。
only after the barriers are carried out。
and the harm is addressed.。
Rispa's actions were not only about。
granting dignity to the dead,。
but about healing the land going forward.。
By addressing the past, when we address the past,。
we can move forward in healing.。
How do we bear witness against apathy?。
We do that by taking action,。
by taking action and remaining steadfast.。
And lastly, Rispa bore witness against hopelessness.。
As a woman, as...。
Sorry.。
As a woman, as a widow, as a concubine,。
as a grieving mother who has lost her male child,。
she had very little power.。
Her ability to change things and to demand justice。
seemed very limited.。
By all social measures,。
she was among the weakest in society.。
Even in the text, her words are not recorded.。
We never hear from Rispa.。
Yet she insisted on her agency.。
She did not give into despair.。
She kept her vigil for months.。
I can imagine her enduring the cold。
and the war and the pain.。
And the warm weather.。
She fought off the vultures and wild animals.。
She was relentless,。
much like the persistent widow in Jesus's parable,。
who kept pleading with the unjust judge。
until he granted her justice.。
Rispa demanded dignity even when it seemed beyond reach.。
She hoped against all hope.。
And due to her witness, the king had to act,。
ultimately bringing about the healing of the land.。
In Palestine, after years of systemic injustice。
and dispossession, we often feel hopeless.。
To be honest with you, through human eyes,。
there's not much reason to hope.。
Seems things are only going to get worse.。
But as Christians, as Palestinian Christians,。
we continue to hold on to hope.。
Not as a naive idea or a delusion,。
but as an expression of faith in the God who heals.。
The God who we love and follow.。
Our hope is rooted in God who is just and merciful。
and who is close to the brokenhearted.。
God with us, Emmanuel.。
God who is the advocate of the poor,。
father of the orphans,。
who is to be found among the sick,。
the hungry, and the oppressed,。
who rose from the grave and defeated death.。
Emmanuel, God with us.。
And we express that hope by joining God。
in building his kingdom, by living the Jesus way.。
We hunger and thirst for righteousness,。
not out of selfishness, but out of love for God's kingdom.。
We strive to make peace, to love our enemy,。
until they are transformed into an equal neighbor.。
This is the vision, equal neighbors.。
Until all those who live in the land。
can live in freedom and peace.。
We ask you to hold on to this hope with us.。
To come alongside us as we seek to pursue justice,。
love mercy, and walk humbly with God.。
The journey is not easy,。
but it is the one that we are called to.。
To be Jesus' hands and feet,。
acknowledging one another's humanity and dignity.。
Refusing to remain apathetic,。
to persist in our mission through God's strength.。
My prayer is for God to nurture the spirit of Rispa in us.。
The spirit of bearing witness against erasure,。
against apathy, against hopelessness.。
To be strong in the face of vultures。
that threaten to break our resolve.。
To seek ways to resist violence in an unviolent way.。
To be a hot coal for our communities,。
stirring people to seek out the kingdom of God,。
softening their hearts to God's whispers.。
May God nurture the spirit of Rispa in us all.。
Amen.。
(audience applauding)。
- Sorry, my mic's not working.。
Can you just stand together?。
I'm gonna invite...。
That was deeply profound on multiple levels.。
And I'm just gonna invite, first of all,。
Lama to pray for us.。
And then after that, I'm gonna invite Pastor Ellison。
to pray for Lama and her people.。
And we'll be doing that all together.。
But first, would you pray for us, Lama?。
- Lord Jesus, how much we love you.。
How much we love that you have a different way for us.。
A way out of violence and out of oppression.。
Lord, we may sit at your feet and learn it.。
Lord, I thank you for this church.。
I thank you for their open hearts,。
for their love for you,。
for their heart for justice, for your justice, Lord,。
for your mercy.。
Lord, bless them.。
Help them, Lord, see where they need to be a Rispa.。
Where they need to bear witness.。
Where maybe there's somebody else's children,。
but their parents can't be there to bear witness.。
Help them, Lord, to stand on the hill.。
Lord, help them to weep.。
Help them to rejoice.。
Help them to be courageous.。
Help them to be open.。
Help them to love you more.。
Not, Lord, don't do this work out of selfishness, Lord,。
but out of love for you.。
Purify our hearts.。
May the meditations of our hearts,。
the words of our mouths be pleasing to you, Lord Jesus.。
Amen.。
- Amen.。
I'm gonna just invite Pastor Alison to come and pray.。
- A church of in solidarity with Lama and her people,。
if you would reach out your hands towards her,。
just as a sign that we stand together as we pray.。
And so, Jesus, we thank you for,。
we thank you for bringing Lama here to Hong Kong。
for a time such as this.。
Father, we thank you that you've kept her and protected her,。
and that her voice throughout this weekend, Lord,。
has been maybe a wake-up call,。
something to shake us out of our own apathy。
towards what's been happening.。
And so, Jesus, as we stand now as your family,。
even though our lands are distant in terms of geography,。
Lord, under your love and your care。
and under your banner of love, Lord, there is no distance.。
And that what's happening in Lama's country,。
in the land of Palestine, Lord,。
breaks our hearts, will break our hearts.。
And so we pray that the stories that we've heard,。
the words that Lama has spoken,。
the lives that have been lost,。
Father, we pray that they will not be erased,。
that you've seen and your heart breaks。
with every single person that has lost something,。
for every single family that's been displaced,。
that this breaks and grieves your heart。
to see your children suffer and die under injustice.。
So they will remember, help us to remember, Lord,。
in our own prayer times, in our own quiet times,。
maybe even just for a minute or two, Lord,。
help us to pray for this nation,。
pray for Lama, pray for her people,。
pray for peace in the land.。
And that would stop us from being apathetic, Lord.。
We pray against apathy in our own lives。
just because things here are calm now。
and we've been through our own seasons。
of turmoil in this city, Lord,。
we've had a little taste of what that's like.。
And so, Lord, our hearts are soft,。
help them to remain soft, help apathy not to set in。
just because we're not sure of the facts。
or we don't see it happening before our very eyes.。
As Lama was saying, Lord, as if one part of the body hurts,。
Lord, the whole body hurts.。
And we are the body of Christ.。
So we refuse to let apathy set in,。
keep our hearts soft, keep our minds sharp, Lord,。
to what's going on, so we refuse to forget.。
And ultimately, Lord, we refuse。
to also give in to hopelessness.。
Lord, like the words of Mary herself,。
with God, all things are possible.。
Like Danielle spoke of, we just need faith。
as small as a mustard seed to see mountains move。
and this is a huge mountain,。
this is gonna require a huge amount of faith。
and a huge amount of hope.。
But Lord, you are the God of all hope.。
You are the definition of hope.。
Even death could not hold you down.。
And so we pray against hopelessness,。
we pray for hope to be restored,。
we pray for peace in the land,。
we pray for the perpetrators of this。
to have a change of their hearts, Lord,。
in the way we pray for our enemies, Lord,。
that you would convict them in a way。
that only you can and only they can understand,。
that they would come to their senses。
and realize that war will never lead us to anywhere.。
But what we need is your love, your mercy,。
your grace, your kingdom, your economy,。
your way of doing things,。
your mind to transform and renew。
each and every single person, Lord.。
And Lord, as the llama travels back, Lord,。
as she continues her work, Lord,。
fill her up with courage, fill her up with strength,。
fill her up, protect her from harm, Lord,。
fill her up with everything that she needs, Lord,。
that her voice, Lord, would not be silenced,。
that her voice would ring loudly。
to those who need to hear it。
and that as she stands firm on her convictions。
and her faith in you,。
we stand together in solidarity with her。
as brothers and sisters in Christ.。
Protect her with your love,。
protect her with your Holy Spirit, Lord.。
And we say, we pray all of this。
in the all-loving, all-powerful,。
the only name that is able to cast out all enemies,。
only name that's able to bring peace into the land,。
it's the name of Jesus, all-powerful name,。
that we pray.。
And the church says, amen.。
(audience applauding)。
>> We're gonna take a time just to worship,。
and I think it's important that we respond that way。
as that prophetic act against hopelessness.。
We've heard some pretty deep。
and challenging things this evening,。
and it's good.。
It's good to be shaken up.。
It's good for us to understand what's happening.。
It's good to hear it firsthand that way。
and to see how so often even our own faith,。
our own language, our own Christian theology。
can work against the very things of the gospel.。
But we stand here at the Vine in solidarity。
to all the things that Lama was sharing,。
and one of the ways in which we do that。
as the body of Christ is in a place of prayer,。
as we've already done,。
and then secondly, in a place of worship,。
to say that the enemy is not gonna have the final say, amen,。
is to say that we are gonna proclaim with our mouths。
and with our tongues that he is king and king,。
Lord of lords, and that he can do the very things。
that we've been hearing and talking about today.。
So we're gonna spend some time in worship,。
and then I'll come in a few minutes。
and just close our time.。
But let's praise our Lord together as a community.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
