I also want to take this opportunity just to wish all you moms a happy Mother's Day。
and I hope everyone here knows they're loved and we're so blessed to have you and we're。
just grateful for you.。
Now today we're in the final sermon of our sermon series, resurrection.。
Everything was bothering Justin apparently.。
We're in the final sermon of our sermon series, resurrection hope.。
I hope you've been enjoying that because a lot of times what happens is when you have。
Easter, you talk about resurrection and Jesus rose and then you move on and a lot of times。
you don't talk about much more.。
We actually wanted to unpack practically what that means for our lives.。
That's where I want to pick up today and continue.。
To start things off, I want to share something from my teenage years a little while ago.。
I was I think around 15 years, 14 years old and a friend of mine and I, we decided to。
go on a skiing trip.。
This was a skiing trip that was organized by a local or actually our state skiing association.。
We met all these other youth in Frankfurt and then we drove to Switzerland.。
I don't even remember where we went.。
We drove all the way there.。
We got there.。
We step into a youth hostel and that's one of those things where you don't have a million。
beds in one room.。
There was like eight beds or so in one room.。
My friend, he starts to unpack everything.。
He starts hanging up all his clothes, putting all his socks there, his towel, his pants.。
We had to bring our own bed sheet and bed covers.。
He did all of that stuff.。
Then he went and left the room, went to the bathroom.。
Just when he left, one of the older youth in the room said, "Hey, let's repack his bag."。
And so he egged everyone on to do it.。
They started repacking his bag, packed it all up, which he had just nicely unpacked.。
The message that they were sending was clear, "Go back home."。
He was the easy one to pick on in that room by the older guy.。
I have to say to my shame, while I didn't participate in putting the stuff in the suitcase,。
I actually did not stand up for my friend.。
It's really bothered me.。
I don't know if you've ever experienced that, where you miss this opportunity to be the。
person that you want to be.。
I was lacking the courage to just at least try them to stop from doing what they were。
doing.。
I just carried this deep disappointment in myself and shame.。
I think we all, at one point or another, lack the courage that we wish we would have.。
Where there's these moments in our lives where we want to have courage, but for whatever。
reason, there can be many reasons.。
We just cannot find the courage to be who we're meant to be.。
We cannot find the courage to do what we're meant to do.。
This might look like things, maybe there's a conversation that we just need to have.。
It just needs to be addressed.。
It's been looming, but we just are not able to have that conversation.。
We lack the courage.。
Maybe God is asking us to do something new in our lives, but for so long, we've been。
doing what we know is wrong.。
We just lack the courage to change and become a different type of person.。
Maybe it has to do with there's this job shift that you perhaps sense the Holy Spirit leading。
you to take.。
Maybe it's a totally different career.。
It's not the thing you've been doing before, but you lack the courage to make that shift,。
to take that step because there's so many unknowns.。
Maybe you need courage for a situation where your life is in shambles.。
Stuff hasn't been working out, and you just find yourself in this heap and this rubble。
of your life.。
You lack the courage and the ability to move forward and to start afresh or to start new.。
You just don't know what to do.。
Or putting it maybe more positively, maybe there's a coworker where they really need。
prayer and you have the opportunity to actually pray for them, but you lack the courage to。
ask them, "Hey, would it be okay if I pray for you?。
I know you don't believe in Jesus, but I think this really would help you."。
So you can see there's all these different areas in the ones that you know from your。
own life where we can use courage to be the people that God has created us to be, that。
God has called us to be, and to do what honors him and what is good and what is right and。
what is just.。
But for whatever reason, there can be many reasons we struggle to find that courage.。
So what I want to explore with you today in this message is this question, where do we。
find the courage that we lack?。
Where do you get that courage from?。
Where can you find that?。
How can we close that gap from who we are and who we want to be or who we need to be?。
How do you close that gap?。
And so I want to explore that with you through the topic of resurrection.。
I want to explore that with you from a passage of the Apostle Paul in his letter to the first。
Corinthians.。
So let me set with you the context a little bit for this letter that Paul wrote before。
we go into the specific passage.。
So Paul, he planted the church in Corinth.。
So he started it.。
He was there for, I think, roughly two years.。
Then he moved on to plant other churches.。
It's the thing that Paul did.。
He planted churches.。
So at some point in time, he hears about that there is the vision in the church.。
There's conflict.。
There's disagreements.。
You know, and of course, that must have broken his heart.。
And then a group of people come and they share with him a letter of questions where there's。
just all these issues where they're trying to figure out how are we supposed to think。
about this?。
We don't know what to do.。
And so Paul then authors the letter of first Corinthians to address all these, the division,。
to address all these issues.。
And really what he gets at, and I find this absolutely fascinating, is it's helping the。
Corinthian believers think through what the gospel is and what it means to line their。
lives with the gospel.。
And you can see this even in the structure of his letter, because in chapter one and。
two, Paul talks about the cross, Jesus's death.。
And then in chapter 15, which is, there's still one chapter, but the chapter 16 is like。
the postscript of the letter.。
He talks about the resurrection.。
So everything in the letter is between the cross and the resurrection, which is the central。
part of the gospel message.。
And so we're going to look at chapter 15.。
It's the longest chapter on the resurrection or the most prolonged argument and discussion。
on that topic in the Bible, chapter 15, first Corinthians.。
I'm going to take you there in a moment, but I'm just going to say this.。
Today it's going to take me a little bit of time to get around to why, how does this relate。
to courage?。
Okay, so just stick with me.。
All right.。
Sounds good.。
Thank you.。
All right.。
So we are in first Corinthians chapter 15, verse 12, starting there.。
But if it is preached that Christ has been raised from the dead, how can some of you。
say that there is no resurrection of the dead?。
And if there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised.。
So the problem that apostle Paul is addressing here is that some are denying the resurrection。
of the dead.。
Now they believe the basic gospel proclamation that Christ died on the cross, that he was。
buried and that he rose.。
Now they affirm that, but they're saying, but I don't believe in the resurrection of。
the dead.。
And what they're failing to see is that Jesus's resurrection and the resurrection of the dead,。
they belong together.。
You cannot separate them.。
And so they're undermining the basic message of the gospel.。
And Paul wants them to see that and help them think through how that impacts all of their。
lives and what they do.。
And so when the gospel message isn't clear to us, it weakens our faith, hope, and courage.。
I guess I did tie it in here.。
Because we don't truly understand the foundation that supports them and what they're based。
on.。
So if we want to be people of courage, we need to understand the gospel message and。
what that implies for us.。
But a lot of times if we're honest, there's a lot of fuzziness around a lot of things。
that we believe.。
And if we're fuzzy, then it's hard to have that confidence and that clarity.。
And so today part of my heart is just to also bring some clarity to what the ground is on。
which we stand, in which we can have hope, faith, courage, love, all of those things.。
But let's continue in verse 14.。
So here Paul, he unpacks the problem of if you were not to believe in the resurrection。
of the dead and by implication the resurrection of Jesus, this is what you're left with.。
And if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless and so is your faith.。
Ouch.。
More than that, we are then found to be false witnesses about God for we have testified。
about God that he raised Christ from the dead, but he did not raise him.。
In fact, the dead are not raised.。
For if the dead are not raised, then Christ has not been raised either.。
And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile.。
You are still in your sins.。
Then those who have fallen asleep in Christ are lost.。
If only for this life we have hope in Christ, we are of all people most to be pitied.。
Wow.。
So he's really unpacking the consequences of not affirming the resurrection of Jesus。
and the resurrection of the dead.。
So if Christ has not been raised, so I have a summary here.。
Christian faith is futile.。
It's empty.。
It's meaningless.。
We are unforgiven and left in our sins.。
Those who have died in Christian hope, they've died on a false hope.。
They're lost.。
Those who currently hope in Christ are most to be pitied because their hope is fake.。
So in other words, Christianity without Christ's resurrection doesn't make any sense.。
Christianity without the resurrection of the dead doesn't make any sense.。
You know, it belongs together.。
We cannot separate that.。
But if Christ has been raised, all those negatives, they turn into positives.。
So I have those as well.。
Our faith counts.。
Our sins are forgiven.。
Those who died believing Jesus, they will be raised.。
And those who currently hope and trust in Christ are to be envied since God's power。
is at work in them and they have hope now, but also beyond death.。
So the point that Paul is making is that the resurrection of Christ isn't just one belief。
among many that you can kind of like, "Oh, you know, it doesn't matter what I believe。
on this."。
No, it matters.。
It's not just one belief among many.。
It's the very thing that gives meaning and power to everything else that we believe.。
And to be fuzzy about that or to have the wrong understanding or to affirm that, it's。
like cutting the legs from underneath our faith.。
Everything collapses.。
And so Paul is addressing this misunderstanding and he's explaining that the basics of the。
gospel message on which the ground in which we can have new life in Christ, the ground。
on which our sins are forgiven, the ground on which we can have hope, the ground on which。
we have faith, the ground, yes, on which we can have courage to live the life that Jesus。
calls us to live, has created us to live.。
And so Jesus' bodily resurrection gives us hope and it shows us also something very significant.。
Like during that time, there was a negative view regarding the material world, that it。
was corrupt.。
And the way salvation was understood in a Greco-Roman world was that the soul was meant。
to escape the body.。
So when Christianity affirms the material world, yes, it's corrupted by sin, but God。
will redeem the corrupted creation from sin.。
So when Jesus' body is raised, it shows that God is also affirming his good creation.。
Because in the Hebrew mindset, creation in the material world is good.。
Yes, it's impacted by sin, but it's good.。
And God one day will renew, restore all things, all of creation.。
And so Paul, he put it differently.。
What Paul wanted the Corinthians to understand is this, Jesus' resurrection was not simply。
God's miraculous intervention that rescued him from death.。
So it was not just something for Jesus and for nobody else, but it was the beginning。
of God's renewal of all things.。
It's like the turning point, everything starts changing.。
Resurrection is a central piece of God's redemptive and restorative work for all of his creation.。
And so it really is that turning point where you have, when you look at the biblical grand。
narrative, you have the fall, well, you have creation, then you have the fall into sin,。
then you have the story of redemption.。
And it culminates in Jesus dying and rising, and then also in Jesus coming again.。
So this is the turning point.。
And it doesn't just have implications for Jesus, but for everyone else, for this world,。
for us.。
And so Paul is saying, you cannot separate us.。
This belongs together as part of the same gospel story, good news message.。
But let's continue because Paul does affirm that Christ rose.。
So in verse 20, it says this, "But Christ has indeed been raised from the dead, the。
first fruits of those who have fallen asleep."。
So talking about those who were dead.。
"For since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead comes also through a man.。
For as in Adam all die, so in Christ all will be made alive."。
Now if you're like, this sounds familiar, it should because Pastor Chapman preached。
about it two weeks ago, this passage here.。
But I'm going to highlight something from a little bit of a different angle.。
The first thing is, I mean, the first fruits, so Pastor Chapman talked about that, I'll。
repeat that briefly.。
So first fruits is the first fruits of a harvest, like the first apple that's ripe, the first。
wheat that's ripe.。
And Paul compares the resurrection to first fruits, which means there's more to follow.。
Just like in a harvest, you know, after the first fruits there's more to follow, with。
Christ's resurrection there is more to follow.。
Because it's just the beginning of something new that God has inaugurated, that he has。
begun.。
And what's going to follow is the renewal of all things, including the resurrection。
of the dead.。
But then the second thing is, and this he shifts the metaphor, he talks about being。
in Adam and being in Christ.。
And we, all of us, either we participate with a life in Adam or we participate in a life。
of Christ.。
And so there's no in between room.。
And Adam means we're under sin, we're under the fall, you know, and we will need to deal。
with the consequence.。
But if we are in Christ, that means we have been raised from death to new life in Christ.。
And so we now get to participate in this new life that Christ has brought.。
And you know, our story has changed.。
We're not no longer living the story of Adam, we're living now the story of Christ.。
And I know I noticed this a little bit abstract, I'm going to get to the practical.。
But one thing I want to highlight here is at the end of verse 22, it talks about the。
future reality of the resurrection.。
Because it talks about that those who are in Christ will be made alive, future.。
But that's not the only way the Bible talks about the resurrection, because it also talks。
about the present reality of the resurrection.。
And so does Paul, where he talks about us being made alive in Christ now.。
So I want to read a passage from you from Ephesians 2, verse 4.。
It says, "But because of this great love for us, God was rich in mercy, made us alive。
with Christ, even when we were dead in our transgressions.。
It is by grace you have been saved, and God raised us up with Christ and seated us with。
him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus."。
So here it's the present reality.。
We were made alive for Christ.。
We were dead in our sins.。
Ephesians, before Paul came, proclaimed the gospel, they were dead in their sins.。
They were under Adam.。
But because they believed, they repented of their sins and they placed their faith in。
Jesus, they were made alive with Christ.。
Present reality, God's power at work, raising believers to new life, bringing transformation,。
bringing change, giving the gift of his Holy Spirit.。
Every believer is filled with the Spirit and receives the gift of the Holy Spirit.。
And so now we're on a different trajectory.。
We can live differently.。
And so that's really what I want to focus with you on today, is the present reality。
of the resurrection and how that impacts our life.。
You know, the power of God here and now that raised Jesus from the dead is the same power。
that is at work in your life if you believe in him.。
So you have that same power at work, not just when you become a Christian, but as you continue。
to live the life of following Jesus.。
Well, let's continue.。
So Paul, he, and this is the final section we're going to look at in this letter, he。
draws out two more, he gives two examples of two practices that the Corinthians practiced。
that do not make sense if you don't believe that Jesus rose.。
Like it just would not make sense.。
And so we're going to look at the second one.。
I think that's the easier one to understand.。
It's from Paul's own life, his own ministry.。
And it stands under the heading that now if there is no resurrection, so let's pick it。
up in verse 30.。
And as for us, now if there is no resurrection, why do we endanger ourselves every hour?。
I face death every day.。
Yes, just as surely as I boast about you in Christ Jesus, our Lord.。
If I fought wild beasts in Ephesus with no more than human hopes, what have I gained?。
If the dead are not raised, let us eat, drink, for tomorrow we die.。
He's actually quoting a philosopher from the time.。
So Paul is saying like, if Christ has not been raised, then me and my coworkers risking。
our lives, it doesn't make any sense.。
Why would we do that?。
That's just stupid.。
Moreover, he says in verse 31, I face death every day.。
Now a more literal translation of this there, I die daily.。
So it's actually in reference to Jesus, his self-giving love.。
So I'm living this death to self to serve other people, to build other people up, to。
bring them the flourishing, to bring them the faith.。
And if I do this every day, but Jesus didn't rise, it doesn't make any sense.。
Because why would you do that?。
Then let's just all have a party and just seize the day, carpe diem, enjoy this life。
and that's it.。
Drink, eat, be merry.。
But that is not the case because Paul affirms that Christ did rise.。
And so I want to bring us back to the question that we asked at the beginning of the message.。
Where do we find courage?。
Where do we find the courage that we lack?。
We find it because Jesus died and rose and because that shifts our perspective on how。
we live now.。
It shifts our perspective even beyond death and God by his spirit, by his Holy Spirit。
can empower us to have courage and to live lives that we could not live out of our own。
strength.。
I want to give two examples of how we can experience the present reality of the resurrection。
of Jesus in our lives now.。
Now that can help us live the courageous lives and be the courageous people that God has。
created us to be.。
The first one is this, we can find courage for our lives in a personal relationship with。
Jesus.。
That really is the starting point.。
The power of sin when you repent of our faith and place our trust in him is broken.。
The Bible talks about that we crossed over from death to life.。
The Holy Spirit has given you new birth, new life.。
You are a new creation.。
Something has shifted, something has changed.。
What has separated you between you and God has been removed.。
You now have access to the Father.。
You are a child, a son, a daughter of God.。
You can live in that relationship and that intimacy with the Father, the Son, and the。
Holy Spirit.。
When we live in that relationship, now as Christians it doesn't mean that we're always。
are drawing close to God.。
We don't always live intimately in that relationship.。
But when we do that, when we draw close and we pray and we talk to God and we get to know。
God more through his word and we seek God together with other people and we just enjoy。
his presence, that brings so much assurance to our hearts, to our minds.。
I had this picture of if I as a little child would face some dangerous situation on my。
own, it's quite scary.。
But if my father stands right here and I'm facing the same situation, it's quite different,。
right?。
Because when we have a relationship with Jesus, when we are children of God, when we have。
a heavenly Father, we are not facing the circumstance alone.。
The Lord is with us.。
We can know his presence.。
And having his presence with us and operating from the ground of being in that relationship。
versus on our own can transform how we engage it.。
Because now we're not engaging it alone, we're engaging it with our heavenly Father.。
So it gives us that ground for courage.。
We're not facing the giants on our own.。
We're facing them with God who is so much bigger, so much more powerful, so much more。
mighty than whatever it is that we're facing.。
But we only know that when we dwell, when we live in that intimacy.。
As I was praying for us, it was a couple of days ago, I had this image and I was of a。
child, which I think makes sense.。
I'm a parent of a young child.。
So I think God speaks to us in ways that make sense to us, right?。
I had this image of a child and it was just crying, just tears and screaming.。
And it was running to the Father, into the Father's arms.。
It was anxious, it was unsettled.。
And I just really had to sense that some of us here today were living in that anxiousness。
and in that unsettledness.。
And we've been sitting in that.。
And that God is inviting us like a child to run into the Father's arms, to allow ourselves。
to be embraced by our heavenly Father.。
And that's in that relationship with our Father and by being embraced, that the fear, the。
anxiety, whatever is weighing on your heart, it melts away.。
So I just sensed that some of you are being invited to run into the Father's arms.。
You've been somewhere else and it's time to draw close and just sit in God's arms in。
his presence and to take away your anxieties, your worries, as you just settle in his love。
and who he is, because he loves you and he is with you.。
You are not alone.。
But we're so anxious and frantic, we just lose sight of that.。
So if that's you, I want to encourage you to do that, to run into the Father's arms.。
The second way that we can find the courage that we lack is to face our, we can face our。
challenge because God's power that raised Jesus from the dead is at work in your life.。
When we become a Christian, we receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.。
Now, a lot of times we can operate out of our own strength and I think we all have that。
tendency.。
We're going to try to solve this out of our own means, out of our own strength.。
And so many times you don't go and surrender to God and surrender to the work of the Holy。
Spirit in our lives.。
And when we try to do things out of our own strength, we can't find the courage within。
ourselves.。
On social media, they probably tell you, "Find courage inside yourself."。
But you're not going to find it inside yourself.。
You're going to find it in God.。
You're going to find it in the Holy Spirit.。
And I have this, one of my favorite authors, he recently passed away, philosopher, Dallas。
Willard.。
He tells a story in one of my favorite books, The Divine Conspiracy, and he writes this.。
I want to share this story with you.。
He says this.。
He recounts a story from his childhood.。
So as a child, I lived in an area of southern Missouri where electricity was available only。
in the form of lightning.。
But in my senior year of high school, the REA, Rural Electrification Administration,。
that's a mouthful right there, right, extended its lines into the area where we lived.。
And electrical power became available to households and farms.。
And when those lines came by our farm, a very different way of life presented itself.。
A relationship to fundamental aspects of life, daylight and dark, hot and cold, clean and。
dirty, work and leisure, preparing food and preserving it.。
You know, all of that changes with electricity.。
Because now you have a different power source that impacts all of those things.。
Like, you can have light, you can have electricity for a fridge, you can have electricity for。
power tools.。
And so electricity had the potential to change everything for the better.。
But we still had to believe in the electricity and its arrangements, understand them, and。
take the practical steps involved in relying on it.。
And he goes on to share that not every one of their neighbors took the step to be connected。
to the electrical grid.。
Not everyone did it.。
And becoming a follower of Jesus, becoming alive to God, it's like being connected to。
the electrical grid.。
It's that you get the gift of the Spirit of God.。
You have the Spirit of God running through your body.。
But it doesn't mean that we're always relying on the work of the Spirit and are surrendered。
and submitted to the Spirit and asking God for strength.。
And so we need to, even as Christians, we need to connect ourselves to the source and。
allow the Spirit of God to give us the strength, the courage, the hope, the faith that we lack,。
and we do lack it, to deal with the challenges, the worries, the situations, so we can face。
them and have the grace and the strength to face them.。
Some of the challenges by the power of God who raised Jesus from the dead, that's that。
power that is at work in your life.。
God can remove obstacles in our life.。
He can do that if he wants to.。
Now sometimes they still remain.。
They don't just always go away.。
But what's different is that we now, no longer out of our own strength face the situation,。
but we face the situation by the power of God, the Spirit of God giving us the grace。
and the strength to face them.。
So I want to invite the worship team to come up right now.。
And I want to invite us to actually respond to what I shared, because for some of us we。
are sitting right now in anxiety.。
We are restless, and maybe there's even been tears even last night, maybe even this morning.。
Now it's just been a tear-filled week.。
And our Heavenly Father is inviting us to run into his arms, to sit and embrace our。
Heavenly Father, and to let our fears and our anxiety be melted away in his love.。
And to restore our peace, which is also the work of the Holy Spirit, to give us peace。
when there's chaos all around us, to restore joy where we lost joy.。
So that's the first way that I want to invite people to respond.。
The second way is this, that if you are facing a challenging situation where you need courage,。
if you have that conversation you need to have, if you are facing that decision, if。
you are missing opportunities you actually want to seize, I want to encourage both those。
running into the Father's arms and those needing that courage to just stretch out your hands。
before you.。
And so I want to invite you to do this right now, just as a sign of openness to God and。
longing for him to meet you and to receive from him.。
And what I want to ask us as a family, as a church family to do is actually to go to。
those that we see who have their arms stretched out and to just pray over them.。
You can ask them how to pray, you can just pray, just keep it simple.。
And we're going to take five or so minutes to do that and then I'll bring us back.。
So let's do this right now, let's pray for each other.。
Let's do this, church.。
So you can get up and if you see somebody with their hands stretched out just go and。
pray for them.。
(laughs)。
