but a church in the plural, united across a nation,。
joined in purpose, focused on building up God's kingdom。
one life at a time.。
It is a church that has at the heart of its DNA。
the grand narrative of the redemptive story of Jesus Christ,。
and that celebrates in the freedom and grace。
that such a story brings.。
This church is not constricted by the walls of a building,。
but actively engaged in the community it is planted in,。
desiring for God's kingdom to take root and bear fruit in local soil.。
A church that sees salvation as holistic,。
transforming God's people for God's work,。
and equipping a generation to represent God's heart。
to the poor, the weak, the oppressed, and the persecuted.。
Imagine this church,。
committed to seeing the family as integral。
to all that it's called to be and do,。
involving intentional, committed, and authentic relationships。
across all levels.。
It is the sort of place where both the young and the old。
feel cared for, supported and equipped.。
A church where people of all backgrounds and traditions。
come to feel at home,。
a cultural mosaic that honors and embraces。
a richness and diversity that marks us as the body of Christ.。
It is a church that is willing to innovate and express faith creatively,。
reflecting the boundless limits of God's creativity as glory to Him.。
A place where people gather, hungry for the presence of God,。
and passionate to see this invade all aspects of their lives,。
where they seek to develop an intelligent, spiritual faith。
rooted in God's word and driven with prayer.。
A church that does not make its Sunday services。
the exclamation mark of its existence,。
but instead the comma in its ongoing sentence,。
a time of service, love, and engagement。
that inspires and emboldens all equally。
for the conversation that lies ahead.。
A church that cares, disciples,。
rebuilds, renews.。
This is our city.。
This is our church.。
This is our home.。
Happy Sunday, church! Hello, everybody!。
Yeah, welcome to the Vine Yuen Long!。
It's so great to see all of your beautiful faces today.。
It's only been a week, but it feels like yesterday.。
So it's just so great that we get to come here today on a Sunday。
and we've all made a choice.。
We could have slept in. We could have, you know, do anything else,。
but we decided to be here because our God is worthy of our praise.。
Can I just invite all of you to stand?。
As we enter into worship, let us pray together, everybody.。
Heavenly Father, we thank you.。
We thank you for your goodness.。
We thank you for your love for all of us.。
As we come here today, I just pray that。
you open our hearts as we enter in this time of worship,。
that all of us will be able to just dwell in your presence.。
As we come here to worship, we praise your name because you're good.。
And you deserve our praise, Lord.。
Everybody, let us worship our God.。
I was buried beneath my shame.。
Who could carry that kind of weight?。
It was my tomb, 'til I met you.。
I was breathing, but not alive.。
All my failures I tried to hide.。
It was my tomb, 'til I met you.。
You called.。
You called my name, and I ran out of that grave.。
Out of the darkness, into your glorious day.。
You called my name, and I ran out of that grave.。
Out of the darkness, into your glorious day.。
Now your mercy.。
Now your mercy has saved my soul.。
Now your freedom is all that I know.。
If we all may knew, yeah.。
'Cause when I met you, yeah.。
You called my name, and I ran out of that grave.。
Out of the darkness, into your glorious day.。
You called my name, and I ran out of that grave.。
Out of the darkness, into your glorious day.。
Let's sing, "I Needed Rescue."。
I needed rescue.。
My sin was heavy.。
But chains break at the weight of your glory.。
I needed shelter.。
I was an orphan.。
Now you call me a sinner.。
Let's sing that again.。
I needed rescue.。
I needed rescue.。
My sin was heavy.。
But chains break at the weight of your glory.。
I needed shelter.。
I was an orphan.。
Now you call me a sinner.。
When I was broken.。
When I was broken, you were my healing.。
Now your love is the air that I'm breathing.。
I have a future.。
I have a hope.。
When you called my name, I ran out of that grave.。
Out of the darkness, into your glorious day.。
You called my name, and I ran out of that grave.。
Out of the darkness, into your glorious day.。
Come on, lift up a shout of praise.。
What a glorious day.。
That the saints can gather to worship our God.。
He truly is worthy of all praise.。
And God, we just, in the midst of worship, we just want to give our lives completely to you.。
Because you are worthy.。
And you are trustworthy.。
And God, we give you all the glory.。
Amen.。
Blessed assurance.。
Jesus is mine.。
He's been my fourth man in the fire, time after time.。
Born of His Spirit.。
Washed in His blood.。
And what He did for me in Calvary is more than enough.。
Let's sing that again.。
Blessed assurance.。
Jesus is mine.。
He's been my fourth man in the fire, time after time.。
Born of His Spirit.。
Washed in His blood.。
And what He did for me in Calvary is more than enough.。
Let's sing that again.。
Blessed assurance.。
Jesus is mine.。
Washed in His blood.。
And what He did for me in Calvary is more than enough.。
And I trust in God, my Savior, the one who will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
I trust.。
I trust in God, my Savior, the one who will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
Perfect submission.。
All is at rest.。
I know the author of tomorrow has folded my steps.。
So this is my story.。
This is my song.。
I'm praising my risen King and Savior all the day long.。
I trust in God, my Savior, the one who will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
No, He won't.。
And I trust in God, my Savior, the one who will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
Yes, God, we trust in You.。
You'll never let us down.。
We put our hope and our faith in You.。
Sing it out.。
I sought the Lord and He heard and He answered.。
I sought the Lord and He heard and He answered.。
I sought the Lord and He heard and He answered.。
That's why I trust Him.。
That's why I trust Him.。
I sought the Lord and He heard and He answered.。
I sought the Lord and He heard and He answered.。
I sought the Lord and He heard and He answered.。
That's why I trust Him.。
I sought the Lord and He heard and He answered.。
I sought the Lord and He heard and He answered.。
I sought the Lord and He heard and He answered.。
That's why I trust Him.。
That's why I trust in God, my Savior, the one who will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
Oh, you're so good, Jesus.。
My Savior, the one who will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
I trust You, Jesus.。
Yes, we trust You, Lord.。
We trust You, Jesus.。
You hear our prayers.。
You see our hearts, Jesus.。
That's why we trust You.。
That's why we trust in You, Jesus.。
I trust in God, my Savior, the one who will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
Singing out, I trust, I trust in God, my Savior, the one who。
will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
How many of you believe that?。
Can we just shout amen?。
God, we believe that You are good and Your plans and Your。
thoughts and Your ways are above our ways.。
♪♪♪。
I just want to speak the name of Jesus over every heart and。
every mind.。
I know there is peace within Your presence.。
I speak Jesus.。
I just want to speak the name of Jesus.。
Till every dark addiction starts to break.。
I declare Him there is hope and there is freedom.。
I speak Jesus.。
Your name.。
Your name is power.。
Your name is healing.。
Your name is life.。
Break every stronghold.。
Shine through the shadows.。
Burn like a fire.。
I just want to speak the name of Jesus over fear and all。
anxiety.。
Till every soul captivated by depression.。
I speak Jesus.。
I just want to speak the name of Jesus.。
I just want to speak the name of Jesus over fear and all anxiety.。
Till every soul uncaptivated by depression.。
I speak Jesus.。
Your name.。
Your name is power.。
Your name is healing.。
Your name is life.。
Yes it is.。
Break every stronghold.。
Shine through the shadows.。
Burn like a fire.。
Your name is power.。
Your name is power.。
Your name is healing.。
Your name is life.。
Break every stronghold.。
Shine through the shadows.。
Burn like a fire.。
Shout Jesus.。
Shout Jesus from the mountains.。
Jesus in the streets.。
Jesus in the darkness over every enemy.。
Jesus for my family.。
I speak the holy name.。
Jesus.。
There's power in your name Jesus.。
Shout Jesus.。
Shout Jesus from the mountains.。
Jesus in the streets.。
Jesus in the darkness over every enemy.。
Jesus for my family.。
I speak the holy name.。
Jesus.。
Let's sing it one more time.。
Sing it.。
Shout Jesus.。
Shout Jesus from the mountains.。
Jesus in the streets.。
Jesus in the darkness over every enemy.。
Jesus for my family.。
I speak the holy name.。
Jesus.。
Just the voices.。
Your name.。
Your name is power.。
Your name is healing.。
Your name is life.。
Break every stronghold.。
Shine through the shadows.。
Burn like a fire.。
Your name is power.。
Your name is power.。
Your name is healing.。
Your name is life.。
Break every stronghold.。
Shine through the shadows.。
Burn like a fire.。
Jesus, there's power in your name.。
God, we just proclaim that when we shout your name,。
that demons flee.。
That sickness is gone.。
Bodies are healed.。
Because your name is great, Jesus.。
The name above every other name.。
Jesus.。
Jesus.。
I just want us to sing that name, Jesus.。
In your own way.。
Jesus.。
Oh, Jesus.。
Oh, Jesus.。
There's power in your name.。
Jesus.。
Sing it again.。
Oh, Jesus.。
Oh, Jesus.。
Oh, Jesus.。
There's power in your name.。
Oh, Jesus.。
Sing that one last time.。
Your name is power.。
Your name is power.。
Your name is healing.。
Your name is life.。
Break every stronghold.。
Shine through the shadows.。
Burn like a fire.。
Yeah, brothers and sisters, as we worship,。
God reminded me and us that we come to worship and praise him。
not only when there are good things for us to praise.。
It's because God is good and he deserves our praise,。
regardless if we're in the highs or in the lows.。
And our praise are more powerful than we think.。
Our praise can take down walls.。
Walls of fears and walls of doubts and walls of anxieties and depression.。
His name comes in power.。
When we say the name Jesus, Jesus, and Jesus,。
these are more than just words.。
It's our faith, it's our confidence in him,。
and it's what this name is going to do in the city.。
Our praise can turn this city upside down.。
Revival is going to happen.。
Things are going to change because we come and worship him together.。
And can we just sing the chorus again with faith and with confidence?。
Jesus, his name will bring all strongholds.。
He will heal all depression.。
He will bring all the slave out of slavery because our God is good.。
Your name is power.。
Your name is healing.。
Your name is life.。
Yes, it is.。
Make every stronghold shine through the shadows.。
Burn like a fire.。
Sing shout Jesus.。
Shout Jesus from the mountains.。
Jesus in the streets.。
Jesus in the darkness over every enemy.。
Jesus, for my family, I speak the holy name.。
Jesus, one last time, shout Jesus.。
Shout Jesus from the mountains.。
Jesus in the streets.。
Jesus in the darkness over every enemy.。
Jesus, for my family, I speak the holy name.。
Jesus.。
Heavenly Father, we thank you.。
Thank you for all the love you have.。
And thank you that we're called to be the daughter and sons of God.。
And Jesus, will you just continue to speak to us, minister to us, and love us, Lord.。
And help us to receive your love.。
And trust in you, Lord.。
We trust in you, our Lord, our Savior.。
And we praise your name.。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
Together we say, amen.。
Let's give our praise to our God.。
And big hands to our worship team as well.。
Thank you.。
All right, have a seat, everybody.。
Once again, I just want to welcome all of you to the Vine Yunlong.。
My name is Francesca, and I'm part of the Vine here.。
I just want to welcome anyone's first time here.。
Is there any first-timer?。
I'm sure there are a lot today.。
Yeah, are you?。
Yeah.。
All right, give your hands.。
Don't be shy.。
So I invite our brothers and sisters to give them our warm welcome.。
Tell them a little bit more about us and what's going on here as well.。
I hope you feel you know more about us and feel welcome.。
Yeah, and now as you see, we have a lot of beautiful children.。
Yeah?。
Yeah, children, raise your hand.。
Where are you?。
Woo!。
So every week on Sunday we do have this children ministry.。
It's called K4C, Kids for Christ.。
It's a time for them to learn about the Word of God and receive love and worship together,。
you know, with their friends.。
So shall I just reach out our hands and bless them?。
Yeah, dear God, we thank you so much for these children.。
You love them.。
You love them so much.。
And Lord, I just pray that in the time in K4C that they would just be able to experience。
your love and your goodness and that the words that's from you that they will be,。
it will be their foundation of their life, Lord.。
And I pray that you help them to receive your love and enjoy, have a great time.。
And may you bless all the K4C teachers as well.。
Give them strength and wisdom in how to share love with these beautiful children.。
Lord, in your name we pray, amen.。
All right, thank you.。
So, parents, for zero to two years old, if you could just accompany your child back to。
the room in the back here.。
And three to five, please go to Miss June.。
And six to 13, I believe, yes, will come to Jason.。
Please go.。
Yeah, go ahead.。
And guys, this is a great opportunity for us to say hello to our neighbors.。
So if I could just invite you to maybe chat to someone that you have not met before, give。
them a high five or say hello, maybe ask them how they've week been.。
All right, go ahead.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
All right, I believe everyone is settled.。
So I just want to have a few announcements today.。
So it has been -- it's January, and we are having our annual January fast.。
How is that going for everyone?。
Raise your hand.。
Don't raise your hand, don't worry.。
I'm not going to put you on the spot like that.。
But I just want to say we had our first week of fasting, and it's actually a total of three。
weeks, 21 days.。
So that means we got 14 days more.。
It is never too late to join.。
So I would like to, you know, invite all of you to consider and pray about it and see。
if you want to join our fasting.。
And if you would like to learn more about the meaning of fasting, why we're doing fasting,。
and how we can do fasting, you can scan our QR code, which is going to be right here soon.。
Yeah, perfect timing.。
You can scan our QR code, join our WhatsApp channel, and we'll have all the fasting prayer。
guideline to share with you.。
And also, we'll have a guideline of how do I fast.。
So it's really clear and detailed.。
It's not too wordy.。
It's really good.。
If you can, for some reason, cannot scan the QR code here, just on the way out later, there's。
two amazing technology information board, the signage, right?。
It's beautiful.。
So use it.。
So we're going to have all the information on that as well.。
So you can go there and have a scan and to know what's going on in our church.。
I'm not sure what's your experience with fasting.。
Actually, this year, it's my first time taking this seriously because I've never really understood.。
So I thought fasting is like, okay, sacrifice something, not eating something that I really。
like or like coffee, chips or something, you know, as an act of love.。
But then this year, as the pastors, as they were talking about fasting and the meaning。
of fasting, then I realized I've done it completely wrong.。
Not wrong, but it's not complete, right?。
You have fasting.。
In Chinese, it's fasting prayer, gamsak togo.。
But I always just do the first two words, but not the prayer, right?。
So this year, I was like, okay, God, what can I fast that I can create more space like。
the song, Make Room for You.。
So then I was like, okay, I got to think.。
I don't spend much time eating really because I eat fast.。
And then I was like, oh, oh, no.。
I'm quite ashamed to share, but I'm not ashamed because this is who I am.。
Social media.。
I spend, I was just calculating.。
I would spend at least average three hours every day on social media.。
I'm sure some of you can relate.。
Don't pretend you're not.。
Like five minutes here and five minutes there.。
When you add up, it is three hours.。
So I was like, okay, God, I'm going to fast social media.。
And on last Sunday, I deleted all my apps, Instagram and Facebook.。
And I was like, whew, I felt a bit of lightness in me.。
There is not something that is constantly seeking for my attention.。
But my hand is still doing this all the time.。
But the apps are not even there.。
And then I realized, you know, not only I make room for God to spend time。
with him intentionally, even like my physical and my heart has been changing.。
So I don't usually wake up that early.。
People know me, I wake up late because I sleep late.。
But for the past week, seven days, I have been able to just wake up really。
early, like six or seven.。
Waking up not feeling groggy or not feeling like, ugh, but like literally。
feeling, oh, wow, I'm ready to start the day just in the time in quietness。
and with God.。
And then I can see, you know, the change in me started to come.。
And then as I was on the way here today, I was like, okay, what do I want to。
share with you about my experience in fasting?。
And then God gave me this analogy.。
And I really want to share with you.。
I realized I have been spending time with God, you know, as like God and I, I。
would go out and have food with him, going to fast food, you know, going to。
McDonald's, KFC, all right, maybe a little bit better, Shake Shack or, you。
know, other fast food restaurants.。
I would spend time with him, quickly have a meal and go because I'm so busy。
with work, social media, friends, and scrolling on all the reels and having。
relationships.。
But then I realized I'm always in a rush.。
But God was like, do you want to have fast food with me or do you want to go to。
a French restaurant and have a three-course dining meal with me, spending。
quality time with him?。
Then I was like, oh, right, I've been spending time eating fast food.。
It's great, it's delicious, but is it enough?。
Maybe not.。
So I was like, I do enjoy the seven days of French dining with God, with a。
person that I love, and just really enjoy, you know, take time to enjoy the。
appetizer and have a chat with him.。
What is it made of?。
Why do you make this?。
You know, have that conversation.。
And that is the meaning of fasting, not just to sacrifice something that we。
love and just, oh, I love you, God, that's why I do this.。
But God wants us to spend time with him.。
French dining, if you don't like French, it's fine.。
You can do Chinese cuisine in three hours, too, you know.。
So I just hope that this could encourage you like how it encouraged me as well.。
I'm sure all of you have a lot of testimony and sharing throughout this。
time of fasting.。
So if you have any testimony, please send your email to our -- the Vine email。
here, so then we could, you know, be able to encourage one another.。
But of course, we would not share with the public without your permission.。
So please don't be shy, and if you have any good things that God is doing in。
your life, do share because that's how we experience and witness God's goodness。
and his work in us.。
Yes.。
And now if we talk about fasting, of course we're going to, you know,。
incorporate prayer, right?。
We cannot miss out on that.。
It's really important.。
So at church we have prepared three-day prayer meetings starting tomorrow,。
Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday.。
So Monday, it's more like an individual prayer time with God.。
We're going to turn this into a prayer room.。
We welcome you to come in any time as you like between 6 to 930.。
So you can come just and pray and go out for food and come back,。
however you want.。
We want to encourage you to just come and have this space to worship God。
and to pray.。
And, you know, this is the temple of prayers.。
And the second day, Tuesday, it is our monthly prayer meeting.。
But this day, like this month, we're going to have fasting as our theme.。
So we want to get into a time of worship and prayers just to receive what God。
is speaking to us as a church and, you know,。
how the direction and the vision we have for the Vine Yuen Long here.。
So we encourage you to come.。
Do come on time so we can all start worship and prayers together.。
And the last day, the Wednesday, it's the prayer walk.。
So prayer walk, of course, we have individual and we spend time praying。
with brother, sister.。
Of course, it's important for us to go out and pray in the community that God。
called us to be in.。
So we encourage you to come at 8.。
We will have a quick debrief, and then we'll probably go out in small groups。
or pairs around our neighborhood, not too far, just around here,。
and see where God leads us and what God wants to speak to us.。
And we'll come back here and have a bit of sharing,。
and that will be the end of the three-day prayer meeting.。
So, of course, no pressure.。
You don't have to feel obligated to come all three.。
It's never out of obligation.。
If you feel called, if you love, and you just really want to be part of。
these prayer meetings, I encourage you to come.。
Come with your friends, come with your families, and come and just see what。
God is speaking to you and us as a church.。
But for the second day, especially the third day, we do encourage you to come。
on time so that we can all start together.。
All right?。
Perfect.。
I think that's all for announcement today.。
Now is the time of offering.。
I just want to have our welcome team be ready.。
Offering, it's an act of worship and show our gratitude to God.。
And also, it's saying to God, "God, you're above money and everything that I。
possess because you are a God."。
And if you're not sure the meaning of offering, please don't worry.。
Don't feel pressure.。
You can just pass the bucket along.。
And apart from the physical bucket, we also have all these online digital。
methods to do offering as well.。
For those, if you feel called, if you feel like after prayers, you feel called to do。
so, we really encourage you to do join our monthly offering program so that it's。
easier for church to do our budgeting as well.。
All right.。
If we could just, you know, bow our heads and let's pray for our offering.。
Yeah, Father, we thank you.。
You're our God, you're our Savior, and you're our life provider, and you're this。
church provider.。
And all that we have, they're all from you, Lord.。
And Lord, I just pray that you soften our hearts and speak to us that we'll offer。
not just the money but ourselves and our heart to you for you to use us to be in。
the work in your kingdom, Lord.。
I just pray that you bless this offering so that it can turn to other blessings,。
to all ministries and our neighbors and the city, Lord.。
We thank you and we love you.。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
Amen.。
Thank you.。
All right.。
So now let us invite our preacher today, Tim.。
Let's give him a warm welcome.。
How are you?。
I am good, thank you.。
You're good?。
Great.。
All right.。
All right.。
Shall we just pray for Tim together?。
Yeah, Heavenly Father, we thank you so much.。
We thank you for Tim, and I thank you for his family and his heart for you, Lord.。
And I just pray that you would anoint his lips as he share your words, as you share。
the things you want us to hear today, Lord.。
May you just open our hearts and ears to listen and to hear.。
And may you use Tim as a vessel to just speak to us and share with us, Lord.。
Yeah, may you protect him, give him strength and courage and boldness to share.。
Yeah.。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Thank you, Francesca.。
Let's give Francesca a hand.。
I loved the analogy of, you know, fasting and sort of fast food, actually having a quality。
meal with God and spending time with God.。
And that's really what we believe God is calling us into inter-season, you know, is to commune。
with him and to experience him and just to sit with him, hear from him.。
And so, yeah, that was great.。
Of course, it made me hungry, but that's okay.。
Well, today we're continuing in our sermon series, Fresh Encounters.。
And so, as we were preparing for this, for 2024, as a church family, one of the themes。
that came up was that need for intimacy, that God wants to do something new, something fresh。
in our relationship with him.。
And so, we designed a sermon series around the fasting.。
And there is, for every Sunday, we have a topic, a spiritual practice that can help。
us draw close to God, that can help us encounter him in fresh ways.。
And so, I want to share with you what we have planned.。
So, we've already talked about fasting last week.。
Today, we're going to look at prayer, then next week, personal worship, then there'll。
be confession and repentance and God's word and how God uses all those five things that。
draw us near to him.。
Now, I also want to say, for those of you who perhaps have been a Christian for a while,。
sometimes you're like, "Oh, I know all this.。
You know, I know how to read God's word.。
I know how to pray."。
And you might say those things.。
But there is a sense that we want to challenge each other to break out of our ruts and out。
of our routines, because it's easy to have this routine and do the same thing.。
But Jesus wants to meet us in new ways.。
He wants to meet us in fresh ways.。
And so, even though we might be familiar with some of these things or some of these practices,。
Jesus wants to do something new and something fresh.。
So, let's ask him for that and let's keep challenging each other as we're going through。
this.。
You know, we want to encounter him in fresh ways.。
Now, today we're looking at the spiritual practice of prayer.。
And there have been, for myself, there's been powerful seasons of prayer where prayer flows。
for me easily.。
And there is just a sense of communing with God and God's presence and God speaking to。
me and me having clarity on what he's saying and having clarity about his love.。
And, you know, that's awesome.。
But if I'm honest, there's also a lot of seasons and they do come and go.。
It's not a, you know, you settle this one time and then you're good and you just have。
easy prayer and easy communing with God.。
There's been a lot of seasons for me where it's been difficult to pray.。
Maybe something difficult was going on in my life and I felt like I was done with words.。
I already had told God everything.。
You know, I didn't know how to, what else to say.。
Can be many different reasons.。
For whatever reason, prayer did not flow easily.。
So I don't know where you are on this topic.。
Maybe your prayer life right now is alive and is amazing.。
I mean, Francesca was sharing that she's experiencing a deeper communion with God in this fasting season.。
That is awesome. Praise God.。
But maybe there's actually right now you're experiencing challenges and it's hard for you to just to commune with Jesus,。
to hear from him, to experience him.。
Now on a topic like today, it's of course in some way I'm going to encourage you to pray more.。
But if that's the only thing that I'm doing, you already know that.。
So what I want to do today is actually take a little bit of a different angle.。
I want to look with you at how Jesus encourages his disciples to pray.。
How he encourages them to come to the Father.。
And my prayer is that you're encouraged and inspired and moved by the Holy Spirit。
because of what Jesus is saying to draw closer to him and to commune with him more in prayer.。
Now, before we move further, I actually want to also spend a little bit of time defining what prayer is.。
So let's look at a definition.。
If you're familiar with Pete Gregg, he is the founder of 24/7 Prayer.。
If you've ever done the prayer course, that's the guy who came up with that.。
And he defines prayer the following way.。
He says this, "Prayer is a living conversation with a loving God, which means that we must listen as well as talk."。
So prayer, when we spend time with God in prayer, we're not just talking.。
Prayer is not just asking, even though that is an important part of prayer.。
But it's sitting with God quietly.。
It's hearing from him.。
It's talking to him about what's going on.。
It's doing that throughout the day.。
We can do that when we're busy, when we're at work.。
We can pray silently in our hearts.。
But then it's also important to carve out that extra time where we can have this privacy。
to really listen.。
And so prayer is a huge topic.。
And today I'm not going to be able to cover everything or say everything on that.。
But what I want to do with you is explore how does Jesus encourage his disciples to pray。
and how might he encourage us through that as well.。
So we're in the Gospel of Matthew.。
We're one of the most famous sections of Scripture, which is known as the Sermon on the Mount.。
And we're in Chapter 7, and starting in verse 7, it says this, "Ask, and it will be given to you.。
Seek, and you will find.。
Knock, and the door will be opened to you.。
For everyone who asks receives.。
The one who seeks finds.。
And the one who knocks, the door will be opened.。
Which of you, if your son asks for bread, will give him a stone?。
Or if he asks for fish, will give him a snake?。
If you then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children,。
how much more will your Father in heaven give good gifts to those who ask him?"。
So first, Jesus here, he encourages us to pray by reminding us of the power of prayer.。
And in verse 7 and 8, he repeats twice, "Ask, seek, knock."。
He's emphasizing that.。
Our prayers really make a difference.。
They really matter.。
God loves when his people come to him and ask.。
He loves responding to our prayers and working through them.。
He loves it.。
And we have a tendency to underestimate that.。
I mean, otherwise, why does Jesus need to encourage the disciples to ask, to seek, to knock?。
And if we wouldn't underestimate it, we would actually ask more,。
knock more, seek more.。
Now, for us during the church plan process, we had to ask,。
because there was no way this could happen.。
And God provided in incredible ways.。
For me, one of the most amazing -- and I know I've shared this several times,。
but we were still in one tribe.。
We were figuring out what to do.。
We had a barbecue and a one-off Sunday service, and we just really felt God speaking to us。
and showing us that it was time to move to Yuen Long.。
It was time to go to EIS, even though this building was not ready.。
It was not part of our plan, but God spoke, and so we went.。
It was so good.。
We needed that time.。
It was amazing.。
Then we had the venue here.。
Sometimes you wait until it's quite late to ask.。
So we suddenly hit a dead end here where we were not able to move forward with this place.。
You know, I wrote that speech that I was going to present to the church,。
and the implications, oh, my gosh, they were weighing on us.。
It had serious financial implications.。
So we're asking God for a provision.。
And then he provided a way forward, even though we were told before。
that there was no way we could move forward.。
God provided.。
And so this has been part of our journey.。
Right now in this fasting season, we're asking God personally.。
We're asking the Holy Spirit about what he wants to do in our lives.。
You know, is there a pattern of sin that needs to be broken?。
Do we need some guidance?。
Is there a decision that we need to make?。
We're coming before God in prayer.。
We're asking, Lord, speak to us.。
We want to hear from you.。
We need you to work in our lives.。
But we're not just asking for ourselves.。
I think this is really important.。
We're also asking for the community.。
That's why we're fasting corporately, because we want to see the kingdom of God break into here and now.。
Our heart's prayer is, your kingdom come.。
Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.。
We want to see God's kingdom manifested in you long, in the present.。
Earlier when we were worshipping, I was like, I'm going to sing.。
You know, there's power in the name of Jesus.。
You know, Jesus in the streets.。
I'm getting the lyrics wrong.。
It's okay.。
But I was like, that's what we're praying for.。
We're praying for Jesus.。
His name is life.。
We're praying for people's lives to be turned around, for those who don't know that they're loved, that they're valuable, that they're worth.。
I was prayer walking out there by the schools.。
And I just felt led to pray for the students who don't know that they are loved, that they are valuable, that they are worthy.。
And the Holy Spirit wants to mobilize us and send us out and encourage and speak these truths and love people.。
And so we're crying out.。
We're asking, your kingdom come.。
Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.。
That's our heart's cry.。
We're asking God for that.。
We're knocking.。
We're seeking.。
We're saying not by our own strength, not by our own wisdom, but by your power, by your spirit.。
So this is part of what we're doing because we know we cannot do it.。
We cannot do it.。
So Jesus' encouragement to ask, seek, and knock highlights our temptation not to ask, not to seek, not to knock, and to rely on our own strength and our own resources.。
And we do that all the time.。
I do it all the time.。
I felt as I was preparing this semester, I felt really challenged in that.。
A problem, you know, if something comes up, we go into action mode.。
I like to tackle things.。
I'm proactive and I try to resolve it.。
And then it doesn't work and I try harder.。
And then I try harder.。
And then finally I realize, oh, I could -- maybe I should pray.。
Anyone do this?。
Yeah?。
Okay, I'm not the only one.。
Good.。
So then I pray, and it's amazing how many times God provides.。
It's amazing.。
Quite a while ago I lost a watch that my father gave me for my 18th birthday.。
And it was somewhere in my apartment.。
So I was searching for my watch.。
And what makes this more special was that he actually had passed away just a little bit less than a year prior.。
And so this was like a way I'm trying to remember my dad.。
And I'm searching like a madman in my house.。
And I'm searching in places where it doesn't even make sense that the watch could possibly be there.。
I mean, I literally looked at every inch of my house, and I could not find it.。
And I was freaked out because it was so special to me.。
And so then I prayed and asked Jesus, can you help me find my dad's watch?。
And as I was praying, I remembered that in one of my drawers there was a crack that was quite wide.。
And so I thought, well, maybe it slipped out there.。
So I took the drawer out, and there was my father's watch.。
And I know this was the Holy Spirit's guidance.。
Why would I think of a crack in my drawer?。
And so God, when we ask, when we seek, He loves providing.。
He loves providing.。
But truth be told, our prayers don't always have that quick of an answer or a resolution or a provision.。
More times than not, but more times than not, I've experienced God provide.。
This watch, it was so precious to me.。
And it was not too small of a thing for God to care about.。
He cares about your details, your personal details in your life.。
And so we can ask Him.。
We can ask.。
I'm also reminded of Archbishop William Temple.。
He said this, when I pray, coincidences happen.。
When I stop praying, the coincidences stop happening.。
In other words, when I ask, seek, and knock, there's receiving, there's answers.。
When I don't ask, seek, and knock, nothing happens.。
Now, of course, God is good.。
He blesses us in a lot of ways.。
But there are some things He only does when His children come to Him and ask.。
Now, you might think, well, that's great for you.。
That's your experience, Tim.。
This is not for me.。
In verse 8, it says this, "For everyone who asks, receives."。
This is not just for pastors.。
This is not for especially spiritual people.。
This is not for people who didn't sin last week.。
Everyone who asks, receives.。
God loves you.。
He loves when His children come to Him and ask.。
He loves giving you things, good things.。
And I wonder, who of us here today has been intimidated or hesitant to ask God, ask our Heavenly Father?。
Who here has felt disqualified or not addressed when Jesus says that everyone who asks, receives?。
Who here feels right now disqualified or not addressed?。
You're not disqualified.。
Jesus loves you.。
Your Heavenly Father loves you.。
This is for every one of us, not just for some, for every one of us.。
He loves when His children come to Him.。
Now, at this point, you might be wondering, is it really true that God answers every request we make?。
And this is based on our experience because we've prayed.。
And it seems like there has been no answer, right?。
Come on, let's be honest.。
While it is true that everyone who asks, receives, it is not true that everyone receives exactly what they ask for.。
That's a big difference.。
Sometimes God gives us exactly what we request, you know, on the time when we need it, in that moment.。
Amazing, like with my watch, praise God, praise God.。
And other times He gives us something even better because we don't even sometimes know how to ask for good things for us.。
He gives us better things.。
But then sometimes we also don't receive what we ask for.。
But we still receive.。
Think of Jesus.。
Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane, He prayed that this cup can pass, which means He was praying that He didn't have to go through the suffering of the cross.。
He prayed to the Father three times.。
Now, the Heavenly Father didn't answer Jesus' prayer by removing the suffering.。
But Jesus did receive from His Father.。
He gave Him the grace and the strength to go through the cross and to rise from the dead.。
So everyone who asks, receives.。
But we need to come.。
We need to ask.。
We need to knock.。
We need to search.。
So Jesus encourages us to ask, knock, and seek.。
He encourages us, He encourages His disciples by saying everyone who asks, receives.。
And this encouragement is really rooted in God's goodness and who God is.。
That He loves you.。
That He's for you.。
He's not against you.。
That's why we can come.。
That's why we know He will be good to us because our Father is good.。
That's how Jesus is encouraging us.。
Because God is good.。
He is faithful.。
And He loves you.。
But let's continue looking at our passage.。
In verse 9, starting verse 9, it says this.。
Which of you, if your son asks for bread, will give him a stone?。
Or if he asks for fish, will give him a snake?。
If you then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children,。
how much more will your Father in heaven give good gifts to those who ask Him?。
So Jesus draws on this everyday experience that we have.。
And you can even have this experience here because there's lots of children here that come to their parents and ask for things.。
Parents love giving good things to their children.。
It says, though while we are evil, this is talking about our sinfulness, our brokenness of all humanity.。
You know, we're selfish.。
There's just things in our hearts.。
And even as parents, we're broken parents.。
But despite of that, we still give good things to our children.。
And then Jesus says, how much more?。
Because God is perfect.。
Our heavenly Father is perfect.。
How much more will He give you good things to those who ask?。
How much more?。
I was thinking of, when I was a child, if I would have had the option with my parent in a superstore,。
it might have been a superstore or supermarket, and I could have picked what's for dinner.。
Chances are, I would have picked like ten Snickers or something that's not good for me.。
Or whatever I was in the mood for at the time.。
So good parents, maybe they let you have one of those candy bars.。
But then there's a point where they're going to say no.。
But they give good things.。
You know, our Father in heaven, we come to Him, He has the big picture.。
We don't have the big picture of our lives in mind.。
We don't.。
But God knows everything.。
And so when we come to Him and ask, we have the promise that He will give us good things.。
That things are in line with His will, in line with His purpose.。
And one of the things that I love right now is that we're praying for a community.。
God loves that.。
Because we're praying for good things.。
We're praying for God to just pour out His love, to pour out His provision on the people around us.。
God loves answering those prayers.。
And God loves also answering our prayers when we as children come to our Heavenly Father.。
Now I want to highlight that Jesus refers to God as your Father in heaven.。
Your Father.。
And since God is our Father, that means that we have been adopted as His children into His family.。
And He's already made us the greatest gift of all.。
Which is the gift of salvation.。
He has forgiven us our sins.。
He has brought us in as His sons, as daughters, as children.。
And if He's already made you the greatest gift, and you come to your Father and you ask Him,。
He is for you, He loves you, He's not going to withhold good things from you.。
And Jesus wants His disciples to know this.。
And so He encourages them to come to their loving Heavenly Father.。
He loves you, He loves you.。
And so we come as children to our Father in prayer.。
Now one thing, this passage does focus a lot on asking.。
But I really, as I was preparing for this message, I did have a strong sense that some of our fresh encounter。
is really just growing in this father-child relationship for us.。
Of getting to know God as our loving, perfect Father.。
I know our human fathers, a lot of times, Bernard, are not perfect.。
But God is perfect.。
And He wants us to learn to relate to Him as a child relates to the Father.。
Bernard, you don't have to be hesitant when you're a child to come to your dad.。
You can just come and be and ask and spend time and tell your father about the day and what has happened.。
Now for me, when I was a young adult, there was a lot of guilt, shame, pain in my life.。
And even though I was a Christian, my relationship with God was not one of a child with a father.。
With a loving Heavenly Father.。
It felt maybe a little bit more like coming to your business manager, your boss or something.。
I didn't feel like I was adequate because I knew my life.。
It was so much just shame and sin.。
I felt like I could not come to my Heavenly Father.。
I didn't feel like I always had access.。
And then I had this powerful experience where somebody was teaching on who God is and how He loves us.。
And then there was a prayer time afterwards.。
At first I was sitting and later on I was on the floor weeping.。
But it's been one of the most healing moments of my life where God revealed Himself to me as the loving Father.。
And this pain, this shame, this guilt, it started melting away in the presence of God.。
I was communing with my loving Dad.。
Now this is revelation.。
This is the Holy Spirit's work revealing God to us in this way.。
But I have a sense that some of us need this revelation.。
God wants to reveal Himself as the Father who loves you.。
So Jesus encourages us to come to Him.。
Come to our Heavenly Father to bring anything that's going on in our lives to Him.。
To open our hearts to Him, to receive His love, His care, His goodness, His provision.。
To bring our requests and experience how He meets us.。
So we've seen that Jesus encourages His disciples to ask, not seek.。
We've seen that He encourages us to come like a child, to come to the Father.。
And I wonder how is Jesus encouraging us here today for a fresh encounter with Him in prayer?。
How is He inviting you to experience Him in a new way?。
What is the rut He might be inviting you to break out of?。
Or what routine is He calling you to break out?。
So perhaps for some of us, this means instead of relying on our own resources and our own strengths,。
and that being our first thing that we do, we get into action mode, we try to resolve things.。
That's my default.。
But actually, I wonder what would happen if we bring more of our daily life。
in the conversation with our Heavenly Father?。
If we just start by bringing those things to God,。
instead of first just trying to resolve everything until we hit a wall and then come to Him.。
I really felt Jesus challenged me to flip this around,。
to not only come when I'm at a dead end, but already beforehand be talking to Him,。
and asking and seeking and knocking.。
So perhaps that is a fresh way that God is also inviting you to relate to Him.。
Or for others of us, God is inviting us to come to Him in prayer as a child comes to the Father.。
We're children of God, but often relate to God as a business manager。
who does not have time for us, who's too busy, who doesn't want to be bothered.。
You have His attention.。
He has time for you to spare.。
He loves when you come to Him.。
He delights in you.。
And when we get to know God as our loving Father,。
we start to experience wholeness, peace, security.。
So how is God inviting you to renew, to refresh your prayer life?。
I want to invite the worship team to come up right now.。
And what I want to invite you to do is actually something we do quite often at the Vine,。
Brother and Monsignor here, is we want to pray with each other.。
So whether you pray with somebody you came with, you know,。
maybe there's somebody close to you and you just ask,。
"Hey, would you be cool that we can pray together?"。
I want to encourage you to pray with each other,。
to pray for your prayer life, to pray--you can share how you need prayer。
and just to minister to each other, just to come to our Heavenly Father in prayer.。
So we're going to do this for five to seven minutes,。
and then I'll bring us back together.。
So let's--yeah, let's do that right now.。
So let's turn to each other. Let's pray for each other.。
The prayer team will also be up here.。
If you would like somebody to minister to you in prayer, you can come to them.。
We would love to pray with you as well.。
Let's do this now.。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
Heavenly Father, thank you that you love us.。
Thank you for all the prayers being lifted up to you,。
that you hear us, that you love answering our prayers,。
that you love meeting us, providing for us, caring for us.。
Lord, I pray for deeper revelations of who you are.。
When we feel like we're distant from you or we don't belong,。
when you feel like we don't deserve to be close to you,。
I pray that you remove those lies,。
that your love breaks through whatever walls have been built up.。
Whatever walls have been built up, I pray right now in Jesus' name。
that you tear them down.。
Jesus, through your sacrifice, we have access.。
We have access to the Father anywhere, anytime.。
And so, Lord, I ask that this year。
that you would do something new in us,。
in us as a community, in our personal lives,。
that you grow us deeper in prayer,。
deeper in communing with you.。
I pray for a new work, and we know that's you.。
We can't force that, we can do it. It's your work.。
In the Holy Spirit, we ask for you to work in this way.。
I pray this in your name, Jesus. Amen.。
Why don't we all stand and let's worship.。
Let's stand and let's worship.。
This is a very simple song,。
but I just wanted to sing this and just shout it out to Jesus,。
the one who loves us,。
the one who cares for us,。
the one who hears every single prayer that we have.。
♪ Jesus, we love you ♪。
♪ Oh, how we love you ♪。
♪ You are the one our hearts adore ♪。
♪ Jesus, we love you ♪。
♪ Oh, how we love you ♪。
♪ You are the one our hearts adore ♪。
Come on, just sing it from your heart.。
Jesus.。
♪ Jesus, we love you ♪。
Yes, we do.。
♪ Oh, how we love you ♪。
♪ You are the one our hearts adore ♪。
Yes, Jesus.。
♪ Jesus, we love you ♪。
♪ Oh, how we love you ♪。
♪ You are the one our hearts adore ♪。
♪ Jesus, we love you ♪。
♪ Oh, how we love you, Jesus ♪。
♪ You are the one our hearts adore ♪。
And he loves us, oh how he loves us, oh how he loves us, oh how he loves us.。
Yes he loves us, oh how he loves us, oh how he loves us, oh how he loves us.。
Yes he loves us, oh how he loves us, oh how he loves us, oh how he loves us, oh how he loves.。
Yes he loves us, oh how he loves us, oh how he loves us, oh how he loves.。
He loves us, oh how he loves us, oh how he loves us, oh how he loves.。
He loves us, oh how he loves us, oh how he loves us, oh how he loves.。
Jesus we love you, yes we love you Jesus, we love you, we love you.。
Thank you for sending your son Jesus, thank you for dying on the cross for our sins.。
We love you Jesus, more than words can say. We love you Jesus, yes we love you Jesus, yes we love you Jesus, yes we love you.。
Yes we love you Jesus, yes we love you Jesus, yes we love you Jesus, yes we love you Lord.。
And Jesus we love you, because you first loved us. Lord we receive your love.。
And when times when we feel like we are not loved, may your Holy Spirit remind us that you love us, wherever we are.。
And Lord, help us to love ourselves just the way you love us Lord.。
Help us to love the people around us just the way you love us and you love them Lord.。
And brothers and sisters I just want to bless you all as we walk out.。
I pray that you carry the love of God with you.。
And no matter what's happening and what you're going through, God loves you.。
God loves you. And Lord we thank you. And in Jesus name we pray, Amen.。
Thank you everybody.。
Yeah, may we all be encouraged and yeah, and please take your time.。
You don't have to rush out. It's a time if you want to spend more time in prayers or in just in quietness with God.。
Can we welcome our prayer team in front as well?。
If you want to receive more prayers, of course we want more prayers, right?。
Please feel free to come up here. We would love to bless you and walk with you.。
Yeah, so please do come out. And parents, please don't forget about your child.。
I know you want to have some alone time, but don't forget them.。
Please go get them child and have a wonderful and blessed week ahead.。
And I can't wait to see you all next week on Sunday. See you everybody.。
(Music)。
(Music)。
(Music)。
(Music)。
(Music)。
(Music)。
(Music)。
(Music)。
(Music)。
(Music)。
(Music)。
(Music)。
(Music)。
