Amen. Thank you, Tim, and thank you everyone for your prayer.。
Before I preach, I just want to ask you guys a question.。
Have you ever felt homesick before?。
Yes, right? Some of us have felt homesick before.。
Some of us like, "No, not really. What is that?"。
My first homesick experience was when I was already a full adult.。
I already graduated university.。
I already have started my first full-time job,。
and it was my first trip to Japan.。
How can anyone get homesick in Japan?。
Normally, when you get home, you get homesick going to Japan, right?。
But that was my first homesick experience.。
I was in Japan. I had a great time and had really lovely food.。
And then at the end of the trip,。
right before I'm going to take off on the plane,。
I get really homesick.。
I go, "I really want to go home.。
I want to go to a place where people speak my language.。
I want to open the menu and understand what it's talking about."。
I got really, really homesick.。
And it's not just the first trip.。
It was like afterwards, you know, the camps that I went to,。
the first few trips that I had,。
right towards the very end, I get homesick.。
I get a strong surge of feelings that I really want to be home.。
And this happened for the first few trips, right?。
And no matter how fun the trip has been or how exciting things were,。
when it was almost time to go home,。
I get that loneliness and that longing that I want to go home.。
And I guess that I've always wanted to be home,。
even if I don't notice it at first.。
And when it was actually within reach,。
the hidden longing surges to the surface.。
We all have a yearning to go home.。
The world's value often clashes with the longing。
that God has placed in our hearts.。
We felt caught between what is and what ought to be,。
between the brokenness within us and the hope that is also in us.。
And so we yearn for a place that we can truly call home,。
truly feels like home,。
a place where there is justice, where there is love,。
and where there are humanity,。
and things are not just ideals, but reality.。
And that is why when we see injustice in our workplace, we get angry.。
When we see the wealthy ignore the needs of the poor,。
we are very disappointed.。
When people are overlooked, when hard work goes unnoticed,。
when compassion is seen as weakness, something inside of us aches.。
They're not just isolated events.。
They're symptoms of the exile, of the longing,。
where we yearn to go to a place where there is true love and true justice,。
where there is actually peace from all the frustration。
that we have seen around the world.。
When we hear exile,。
we normally picture people being forced out of their homes,。
refugees and families fleeing war or disasters,。
and people have nowhere to go.。
And it is still happening today.。
And it's still happening today.。
In the Bible, exile isn't just about forcing out of the home,。
but also the separation of what truly matters,。
from where we belong,。
and from the people or things that gives our lives meaning.。
We all want to go home.。
But what do we do with this longing?。
What do we do when we feel the ache that things aren't as they should be?。
Sometimes we just try to fix it.。
We try to get by.。
We distract ourselves with shopping and holidays.。
And sometimes we try to fix it by going after the next job。
or the different relationship, a fresh start in a new place,。
hoping that maybe we'll find justice in a new job,。
and we'll find complete love, honest love,。
faithful love in the next relationship.。
However, no matter how much we try,。
how often, how many times we tried,。
the yearning, the true love, the justice that we long for,。
it's still not complete.。
We can't outrun the yearning of perfectness in our lives.。
And that is where we find Daniel.。
Daniel is living in a foreign land,。
surrounded by values and systems that were so far from God's heart.。
He is longing for the end of the exile and go home.。
And today, we're going to look at Daniel chapter 9.。
Let's take a look at the first three verses.。
It says, "In the first year of Darius of Xerxes, a Mede by descent,。
who was made ruler over the Babylonian kingdom,。
in the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, understood from the scriptures,。
according to the word of the Lord given to Jeremiah the prophet,。
that the desolation of Jerusalem would last 70 years.。
So I turned to the Lord God and pleaded with Him in prayer and petition,。
in fasting, in sackcloth and ashes.。
I prayed to the Lord my God and confessed."。
Chapter 9 opens up to a very special time.。
It tells us that Babylon, the power that destroyed Israel, has fallen.。
And now there has been a big change in power.。
Darius the Mede is now ruling over Babylon.。
But however, the Israelites, God's people, are still in exile.。
They're still not home.。
They're still at the mercy of the latest world power.。
And at this moment, Daniel is reading a message from God。
that was given to them by the prophet Jeremiah.。
In verse 2, it says, "According to the word of the Lord given to Jeremiah the prophet,。
that the desolation of Jerusalem would last 70 years."。
In other words, it means that the exile is only going to last.。
There's a definite time where it is going to end.。
And it is now coming to an end.。
But even with that knowledge, things are still uncertain.。
The old empire is gone, but what the new one is like, no one knows.。
Daniel and the people are stuck between the two empires,。
between the promise and the fulfillment, between exile and home.。
And it is in this place, in this in-between,。
where I know that there's a time, a deadline of things are ending,。
and I'm waiting for the fulfillment of it in this in-between,。
that Daniel turns to God.。
Instead of celebrating that it is ending,。
he confesses to God in prayer and petition, in fasting.。
And the way that he fasts is in sackcloth and ashes.。
Why did he do that?。
Why did he choose to confess instead of celebrate?。
It is because there's still more to come, and preparation is needed.。
The prophecy about the 70 years of exile isn't the whole story.。
Daniel would have read the complete message that God gave Jeremiah.。
It is not just that Jeremiah 25, 12, which says that after 70 years,。
God will punish Babylon and bring his people back.。
Daniel would also know Jeremiah 29.。
After a few more paragraphs, between 11 to 14, where God says,。
"For I know the plans I have for you, plans to prosper you and not to harm you,。
plans to give you hope and a future, then you'll call on me,。
and come and pray to me, and I will listen to you.。
You will seek me and find me.。
And when you seek me with all your heart, I will be found by you.。
I will be found by you and will bring you back from captivity.。
I will gather you from all the nations and places where I have banished you。
and will bring you back to the place from which I carried you to exile."。
There are a few things to notice here.。
First of all, the suffering, the longing, the pain of exile,。
it's not proof that God has abandoned his people.。
It is not failure or defeat.。
It is part of God's righteous and refining process.。
Just as the Israelites wandered in the wilderness after the Exodus,。
learning to leave behind the slavery mindset to become the people of God,。
and so too was exile, was a time of transformation.。
The Israelites had chosen to disobey God, and the consequence was exile,。
being taken away from their land, being captive, and losing their security.。
But even in their disobedience and sufferings, they were not forgotten.。
God's faithfulness remained.。
The exile has physically separated and moved the Israelites into a foreign land,。
but it served as a season in which God works in their heart.。
It was a season where God would refine them,。
draw them back to himself, and ultimately restore them.。
God said through Jeremiah, "I will be found by you."。
In their exile, in the time of suffering, God said, "I have not forgotten you.。
I will be found by you."。
This is what Daniel saw in Jeremiah's prophecy.。
It wasn't just about going back home to Jerusalem after 70 years.。
The returning is not just about the physical distance.。
It is the promise and invitation to restored relationship.。
The point isn't just about their going back to Jerusalem.。
It is that God wants them back for himself.。
This is the real homecoming.。
Because the hope of going home is near,。
Jeremiah realized that preparation of the heart is needed.。
The hearts of the Israelites need to turn back to God.。
And as I was praying over this message,。
as I was thinking about what God wants to speak to us through the message,。
I sensed that God wants to say to us today,。
"God wants you back.。
He wants you to find your way home to him.。
Maybe you've gone for a while,。
and you have been disappointed by church before, and you have left.。
Maybe you've just started to explore faith again.。
Maybe you were on the fence, peeping through the open door,。
and try to see what all this is about.。
Maybe you've been searching for a church,。
a place to put your roots down, to grow in faith and community.。
God wants to tell you that he has a plan for you.。
And today is the day to begin seeking him again.。
Today is the day where he can be found.。
And just like chapter 9, in this chapter of your life,。
God wants to do something deeper than just getting us into the church building.。
He wants to meet us, to renew us, and change our hearts from inside out.。
It's a bit like cleaning the room.。
When you have a room, a guest room maybe, a guest bed and everything,。
that you want to clean out, you don't just open the door and get in and just sleep there.。
No, you open the door, you open the curtains,。
you let the light come in, and you start to see all the dust,。
all the things that have been piling in your room.。
And you go, "This doesn't belong here. I can't keep it here anymore.。
That is dirty. I must clean it."。
And that is what God is inviting us into today.。
He is inviting us to clean our rooms and make space in our hearts。
for something new, something life-giving.。
But how do you clean house in our hearts?。
How do you come back to Him?。
Let us continue with verse 5 to 11.。
"Lord, the great and awesome God, who keeps His covenant of love。
with those who love Him and keep His commandments,。
we have sinned and done wrong.。
We have been wicked and have rebelled.。
We have turned away from Your commands and laws.。
We have not listened to Your servants and prophets,。
who spoke in Your name to our king, our princes, and our ancestors,。
and to all the people of the land.。
Lord, You are righteous.。
But this day we are covered with shame.。
The people of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem and all Israel,。
both near and far, in all the countries where You have scattered us。
because of our unfaithfulness to You,。
we and our kings, our princes, and our ancestors are covered with shame.。
Lord, because we have sinned against You.。
The Lord our God is merciful and forgiving.。
Even though we have rebelled against Him,。
we have not obeyed the Lord our God or kept the laws He gave us。
through His servants, the prophets.。
All Israels have transgressed Your law and turned away,。
refusing to obey You.。
Daniel confesses instead of celebrates.。
He is preparing for the restoration of the hearts.。
Daniel confesses for his people because he recognizes that in every community,。
every family, and every nation, it carries a mix of brokenness and sin.。
We are not just individuals responsible for what we have done.。
We are shaped by people and culture around us.。
And so we also influence others, whether we realize it or not.。
It's like trying to pour water from a cracked jar that has a crack in it.。
And then you mean well, you want to pour a clean glass of water.。
But the water leaks anyway because the jar isn't whole.。
In the same way, even when we try to do good,。
the brokenness in our world and in ourselves can get in the way.。
Sometimes we hurt people, not because we're trying to,。
but because we're still dealing with the hurt inside of us.。
For example, I want to be generous,。
but I also fear that my finance will run out and so I don't.。
I want to speak up for the poor. I want to speak up when I see injustice.。
But then I also fear what is going to happen next.。
There's this unfaithfulness, untrusting in me。
that I don't want to do what I'm supposed to do.。
I give to the poor. I give to the charity.。
But I buy things from the sweatshops,。
knowing that what I'm doing right now is actually oppressing people that I don't see behind me.。
The reality is I can't detach myself from the brokenness I see around me.。
Like Daniel, I can't pray as if I'm on the outside looking in.。
I need to come before God and admit that I'm caught up in the mess too.。
Healing starts when we stop drawing lines between me and them.。
Healing starts when I stop saying that I did nothing wrong, he made me do it.。
He was angry with me, so I have to react that way.。
Or she made me do it.。
It was the brokenness in that system that made me say such things or do such things.。
That is not the beginning of healing.。
The beginning of healing is understanding that we are all in this mess together,。
whether we like it or not, or whether we understand it or not.。
We need to recognize that we all have fallen short.。
We need help as a community from God.。
Just a quick break and let me tell you what is the best time to clean.。
Do you know when's the best time to clean house?。
When you have a lot to do.。
Okay, so I should prepare for my sermon like a few weeks ago,。
but then when I sit down on my desk and look,。
and suddenly I see dust underneath the fridge.。
And I remember there are vegetables in my refrigerator for three weeks。
and I haven't cleaned them out yet.。
They're wilting. I need to clean.。
That is the best time to clean, right?。
The best time to clean is when you realize there are rubbish。
and there are junk inside the place and I must clean it.。
When we realize that, "Oh, actually, take a step back.。
I see the sin in me. There are rubbish in my heart.。
There are things that I have fallen short."。
That is the best place to start cleaning.。
When we confess, we are making space for God to work in our lives。
because we admit that we fall short,。
whether in our habits, our attitudes, or our relationships,。
and invite God to make that real change.。
We recognize our limits and say, "God, I need you."。
So when we pray for our city, we do it with humility.。
We're not just asking God to fix them.。
We're saying, "God, we are in this city together.。
We're in this church together.。
We're in this community group together.。
How can we make space for you?。
How can I start to declutter what is in our hearts and make space for you?"。
I remember a season when I was serving in a local church in Sydney.。
There was a weekly prayer meeting that was faithfully attended by 10 ladies,。
and most of them are in their 60s.。
Every week, without fail, they would book a room.。
I just want to make sure that I don't look too big。
because when I was making the slide, it was like a huge photo of me.。
Not happy with my brows.。
Please don't look at it.。
Now, everyone's looking at it, right?。
But look at the ladies here.。
They are faithfully praying every single week.。
The prayer meeting is very interesting.。
There are formats. There are rundowns.。
But the rundown is so simple.。
They come into the room.。
They place the speaker on the floor.。
They press play, and then they just worship.。
There's no need to set chairs because they're not sitting down.。
They stand around the circle.。
They stand around everyone.。
They start singing and singing, and then they will just start praying.。
And it's not like, "Okay, let me wait for my turn."。
She said, "Okay, dear Helen."。
No.。
Sometimes they pray together.。
Sometimes they take their turns, but they are very focal with what they pray.。
They go, "Lord, I want to pray for this issue and that brokenness in the city.。
Well, I know that there's something wrong with the government, the councils, everything."。
And they just start praying.。
And then after they pray, they will go, "Yeah, when you spoke that word, my heart missed a beat.。
I resonate with what you're saying.。
Yeah, when I was praying for that issue, I thought it was about that.。
But then suddenly, the direction in my prayer shifted.。
I think that was what God was trying to say to us."。
And so in that prayer meeting, there's fire, there's passion because they know that if。
they don't pray about it, there's nothing going to happen.。
But they are going to bring all the brokenness in the city and in the place, in the newspaper.。
They're going to open it, and they're going to live it up to God.。
And I joined their prayer meeting out of curiosity.。
I go, "What is happening in that room?"。
Because people can hear whatever is inside that room.。
I want to know.。
But then over the time, those prayers changed me.。
The way they prayed changed me because I know that they're not praying against individuals.。
They're not praying against governments or against people, but they are praying against。
all the invisible powers that is at work, all the enemies that are at work, and they。
want to pray against it.。
And they know that as a people, we fall short.。
No matter how hard we try, no matter how much we try to bring our church together, to build。
a place where there is justice and peace, we fall short and we need prayer.。
And so by and by, the way that I am now changed because not I learned more things in Australia.。
It is because of the prayers these ladies prayed over me.。
And just a side note, if you're at church, get yourself close to two groups of people.。
The first group, get yourself a matured person.。
Maybe, normally they are older.。
They are older than you.。
They are older than you, but they have walked life.。
They have matured.。
The way that they pray for you, the way that they speak life into you is going to be different.。
Allow yourself to be prayed over, to be spoken over by a more mature person.。
They are treasures of the church.。
Secondly, get yourself to a group that you can speak life into.。
Welcome to K4C, by the way, if you have.。
But welcome, find yourself someone that is younger than you, that you can speak life。
over, because during that time, God is going to use you.。
God is going to give wisdom to you to speak life over to them.。
So it's not like you're using your own resource, your own wisdom to speak life into them, but。
that process, the way that you're going to talk to them, you are going to see how God。
is going to use you.。
You will be amazed when you disciple people, when you walk life with people, how your life。
is going to change too.。
So side note, not only find peers that are in the same age, same life stage, but find。
someone that's older, find someone that's younger.。
It is in Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
It is really hard to pray.。
It is really hard, but also it's really easy to pray, as long as we open our hearts for。
it, right?。
Let's continue to look at the next verse, verse 11 to verse 14.。
This is what Daniel continues you to talk about.。
"Therefore, the curses and sworn judgments written in the law of Moses, the servants。
of God, have been poured out on us because we have sinned against you.。
You have fulfilled the word spoken against us and against our rulers by bringing on us。
great disasters.。
Under the whole heaven, nothing has ever been done like what has been done to Jerusalem.。
Just as it is written in the law of Moses, all these disasters have come on us, yet we。
have not sought the favor of the Lord our God by turning from our sins and giving attention。
to your truth.。
The Lord did not hesitate to bring the disasters on us, for the Lord our God is righteous in。
everything he does, yet we have disobeyed him."。
Daniel owns up to Israel's failure.。
In verse 11 to 14, Daniel brings up the law of Moses, reminding to God and himself that。
all the curses and hardship Israel is now facing were warned long ago.。
God made it clear through Moses that turning away would have consequences.。
Now centuries later, God is simply doing what he would do, what he said he would do.。
And Daniel admits, "This is what you warned us about all the way back in Moses' day.。
You have kept your word, even when it is hard for us to accept."。
Then in verse 15 to 18, he said, "Now Lord our God, who brought your people out of Egypt。
with a mighty hand and who made yourself a name that endures to this day, we have sinned.。
We have done wrong.。
Lord, in keeping with all your righteous acts, turn away your anger and your wrath from Jerusalem,。
your city, your holy hill.。
Our sins and iniquities of our ancestors have made Jerusalem and your people an object of。
scorn to all those around us.。
Now God our God, hear the prayer and petition of your servant for your sake.。
Lord, look with favor on your desolate sanctuary.。
Give ear, our God, and hear.。
Open your eyes and see the desolation of the city that bears your name.。
We do not make requests of you because we are righteous, but because of your great mercy."。
The foundation of Daniel's prayer, it's not because they deserve the forgiveness.。
It is because of God's mercy, there's absolutely no sense of entitlement.。
It's not like, "We are your, come fix it, please."。
You know, it's not entitled to forgiveness.。
Daniel is just simply recalling the time when God delivers the Israelites from the Egyptians。
and he asks God to be consistent with what he has done before.。
Perhaps you've noticed the most frequent word from the passage.。
What is it?。
The word "your."。
It runs from the beginning to the end of the passage.。
Your people, your city, your holy hill, your desolated sanctuary.。
It is not just persuasive writing that it sounds good, right?。
It is a deep understanding of the Lord.。
It recalls the relationship between God and Israel.。
It brings forth the memory of the covenant that God made with the Israelites.。
Throughout his prayer, Daniel deliberately emphasizes God's ownership.。
We are yours.。
We are your people.。
This is your place.。
This is your people who you redeemed from the Egyptians.。
He's reminding both himself and God of the special bond and responsibility God has towards。
his chosen people, not because of their faithfulness, but because of his promise and character.。
Daniel is pleading, is grounded not in the people's righteousness, but on God's faithfulness.。
And that is why Daniel shows us that we can approach God in our sin and weaknesses.。
Sometimes when we have to confess, especially when students confess, "I've done something。
wrong," that they expect punishment.。
And that's why they feel shameful.。
They know that they have done something wrong.。
But when we go to God and confess, "Yes, we have done wrong," but God is merciful and。
kind towards us.。
Not because of what we have done to try to get his forgiveness, but because of who we。
are, who he is, and who we belong to.。
We are God's people by his calling and his grace.。
Daniel has the courage to pray, not because he's confident in people, but because he's。
confident in the God who always keeps his word, both in judgment and mercy.。
And this is where our story begins.。
The God of judgment and the God of grace don't just meet in a temple or a prayer or a promise.。
They meet in a person.。
Jesus, the Son of God.。
He steps right into our lostness, our distance, and our shame.。
On the cross, Jesus takes the curse of exile on himself and he cries out, "My God, my God,。
why have you forsaken me?"。
The exile that anyone could ever know, the hardest and the most heart-wrenching exile。
that anyone could ever know.。
Judgment is not ignored.。
Never was, never is, never will be.。
Judgment is not bypassed.。
But on the cross, God's justice falls on Jesus, not on us.。
The exile we deserve is endured by Jesus.。
The door between God and humanity, and then we tried to rebel and we tried to sin and。
it was slammed shut, the door is now broken open by Jesus' sacrifice.。
The cross don't just forgive our sin, it ends our exile.。
Jesus is not only our substitute, he is our way home.。
The God who promised, "I will be found by you," has come all the way to us in Jesus.。
Through Jesus, we are no longer strangers, no longer wandering, no longer far off.。
We are brought near, restored, and embraced by him.。
And this is what Jesus himself declares in John 14, 6.。
In the middle of our brokenness, our longing home, Jesus says, "I am the way, the truth,。
and the life.。
No one comes to the Father except through me."。
Daniel longed for a way back, but Jesus is the way back.。
He is not just the map, he is the road itself.。
He is the truth that sets us free, the life that restores us, and the one who brings us。
all the way back to God himself.。
Not only Jesus can be found, but he is seeking you.。
He wants you home.。
And I'd like to invite the worship team to come over.。
In the time when we are thinking about all the preparation that Daniel makes for the。
people to go home, not only physically, but also in their hearts, think about our journey,。
this chapter of your life, your way home.。
Maybe you too have recognized that there is an ache and a longing for justice and love.。
Maybe you felt the weight of the exile in your own life, that you felt far away from。
God, from peace, from belonging.。
The good news is that God meets us right where we are.。
He invites us to come to him with all our burdens, all our questions, and all our longings.。
In Christ, the way home is always open.。
I'd like to invite you to stand and sing together.。
