- Thank you.。
Good morning.。
I said this to the first service。
and I'll say it to you as well.。
You may have come to church thinking。
that this will just be another normal Sunday.。
You're going to be disappointed.。
God responds to desperation.。
He responds to longing.。
And I don't know about you,。
but these are two things that I find in my life,。
in various stages of life,。
but I find desperation and longing。
is sometimes our constant companions at time.。
And to those of you who are online today,。
you might be sitting there with a cuppa.。
Maybe you have a dog on your lap,。
if it's anything like I am when I'm at home.。
But also in that room is the presence of God.。
And he will be there to encounter you。
if you are willing as well.。
Some weeks ago during worship,。
Emma said that the one thing that all the encounters。
we've been looking at during this series,。
the one thing they had in common was desperation.。
So desperation, what is it?。
And how does it connect to encounters with God?。
Today we're looking at the story of Hannah.。
So let's begin with the first part of her story.。
We're going to be reading a lot of scripture today,。
so strap yourselves in.。
Now there was a certain man of Ramatham, Zohem,。
of the mountains of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah,。
the son of Jerahim, the son of Elihu,。
the son of Tohu, the son of Zoph, and Ephraimite.。
And he had two wives, the name of one was Hannah,。
and the name of the other was Peninnah.。
Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.。
This man went up from his city yearly。
to worship and sacrifice to the Lord of Hosts in Shiloh.。
Also the two sons of Eli, Hophni, and Phinehas,。
the priests of the Lord, were there.。
And whenever the time came for Elkanah to make an offering,。
he would give portions to Peninnah, his wife,。
and to all his sons and daughters.。
But to Hannah he would give a double portion,。
for he loved Hannah,。
although the Lord had closed her womb.。
And her rival also provoked her severely。
to make her miserable,。
because the Lord had closed her womb.。
So it was year by year,。
when she went up to the house of the Lord,。
that she provoked her.。
Therefore she wept and did not eat.。
Then Elkanah, her husband, said to her,。
"Hannah, why do you weep?。
"Why do you not eat?。
"And why is your heart grieved?。
"Am I not better to you than ten sons?"。
So Hannah arose after they'd finished eating。
and drinking in Shiloh.。
Now Eli the priest was sitting on the step。
of the doorpost of the tabernacle of the Lord,。
and she was in bitterness of soul。
and prayed to the Lord and wept in anguish.。
I've just realised that my notes are all the way。
around the wrong way, so just hold on one second.。
I've got page nine next after page one.。
Just wait for one second.。
We'll just reorder them.。
Nearly there.。
Okay.。
Thank you for being so patient.。
The writer makes sure that the very first thing。
we learn about Hannah is that she has no children.。
Elkanah has two wives, Peninnah and Hannah.。
Peninnah had children,。
but Hannah had none.。
So why is this significant?。
In Hannah's day, it was considered so shameful。
to be barren that your husband could divorce you.。
A barren woman could be treated harshly by the community。
because children were seen as blessings.。
And if you couldn't have children,。
you're perceived as being the opposite of being blessed.。
You are seen as being cursed.。
1 Samuel 1:8 and verse 10 captures the essence。
of her desperation.。
Listen to these words again.。
Hannah, why do you weep?。
Why do you not eat?。
Why is your heart grieved?。
And it goes on to say, Hannah was in bitterness of soul。
and prayed to the Lord and wept in anguish.。
Desperation is a state of extreme distress,。
extreme anxiety or despair.。
It's caused by a feeling of complete helplessness。
or absence of hope.。
Hannah was desperate.。
She was in despair.。
Her husband's other wife, Peninnah, severely。
and deliberately provokes her to make her miserable.。
And the Bible tells us that she has endured this for years.。
Hannah is suffering from maret nefesh,。
which means a bitter soul,。
and ani, which means affliction.。
Let's take a moment to examine the reason。
why Hannah is experiencing affliction.。
The Bible says that the Lord had closed her womb.。
She is childless because of the Lord.。
She is suffering because the Lord is allowing it.。
In the Bible, all forms of fertility。
are presented as gifts from God.。
So why was God keeping Hannah childless。
and allowing her to endure the ridicule。
of the people around her?。
Now, it's important in this moment to understand。
that God doesn't use infertility as a punishment.。
But in Hannah's case, He was withholding children from her.。
Before we explore this further,。
we need to understand that Hannah's not the only one。
in the Bible who suffers affliction,。
who suffers from a bitter soul.。
Naomi, after the death of her sons and her husband,。
renames herself Marah, which means bitter.。
And Job speaks in the bitterness of his spirit。
after enduring the loss of his family and all that he owned.。
And yet all these desperate people have one thing in common.。
Their desperation drives them to encounter God。
and to discover that God can work through their afflictions。
to bring them to a place of greater surrender。
and fruitfulness.。
Hannah's desperation drove her to encounter God.。
It could have driven her away,。
but instead it pushes her in closer.。
She chooses to trust and she pours out her soul to God.。
Let's read 1 Samuel 1, verses 11 to 18.。
Then she made a vow and said, "O Lord of hosts,。
"if you will indeed look on the affliction。
"of your maidservant and remember me。
"and not forget your maidservant,。
"but will give your maidservant a male child,。
"then I will give him to the Lord。
"all the days of his life。
"and no razor shall come upon his head."。
And it happened as she continued praying before the Lord。
that Eli watched her mouth.。
Now Hannah spoke in her heart, only her lips moved,。
but her voice was not heard.。
Therefore Eli thought she was drunk.。
So Eli said to her, "How long will you be drunk?。
"Put your wine away from you."。
But Hannah answered and said, "No, my Lord,。
"I am a woman of sorrowful spirit.。
"I have drunk neither wine nor intoxicating drink,。
"but have poured out my soul before the Lord.。
"Do not consider your maidservant a wicked woman,。
"for out of the abundance of my complaint and grief,。
"I have spoken until now."。
Then Eli answered and said, "Go in peace。
"and the God of Israel grant your petition。
"which you have asked of him."。
And she said, "Let your maidservant find favour in your sight."。
So the woman went her way and ate。
and her face was no longer sad.。
Just wanna take a moment here.。
Something that I kind of,。
when I was reading these scriptures came to mind.。
You know, when people are desperate,。
when they are grieving, when they're in despair,。
when they feel helpless,。
they are not themselves.。
And in these scriptures we see that Eli。
misunderstood Hannah in the first instance。
and he judged her.。
And it can be very easy when we're surrounded。
by people sometimes who are desperate。
or walking alongside them.。
Sometimes it can be easy to misunderstand, easy to judge.。
But I want us to be challenged by these scriptures。
that in the end Eli becomes a source of blessing instead.。
And he speaks peace over Hannah.。
And when she leaves him, her face is no longer sad.。
And I believe that there's a challenge in this to us。
because sometimes we are the desperate ones。
but sometimes we are walking with someone who is desperate.。
May our heart response not be judgment.。
But may it be compassion and blessing.。
Hannah's desperation and barrenness。
prompted her to make commitments and vows。
that she would have never have made otherwise.。
Maybe we need to understand just how desperate。
our condition is, how fragile our lives can be。
because unless we do, we are never going to see。
our equally desperate need for God.。
Desperation is characterized by a sense of urgency,。
a need for immediate relief.。
Desperation has a purpose.。
Desperation is meant to drive us into the arms of God.。
At the end of 2007, my husband Glenn and my four children,。
we packed up our lives in Darwin。
and we returned to Queensland in Australia。
to say our final goodbyes to family and friends。
because we were moving to Hong Kong。
to continue to work for a Christian NGO.。
This was in response to God's leading。
and everything had been miraculous up to this point.。
We had been gifted money out of the blue。
that covered all of our expenses。
and all of our plane tickets.。
We arrived in Queensland and our planned month stay。
before we left for Hong Kong turned into another month。
and then another month.。
Something had caused a holdup with our visas。
and no one could give us a clear answer。
to what was going on.。
We had four kids aged between three and 11。
and we were living like nomads,。
moving from friends and family,。
sleeping on mattresses on the floor,。
spending weeks on farms。
and I was trying to teach our kids。
because the one month had turned into longer。
and they needed to have education.。
Our one month turned into eight long months of waiting.。
I distinctly remember when we reached the eight month mark。
and there didn't seem to be an end in sight.。
We were at my parents' house。
and I went into the toilet and just sat there.。
If you've got children, you'll know,。
sometimes that's the only place you can be by yourself。
and sometimes not even then.。
I remember feeling so desperate。
and I remember crying out to God in anguish and in despair.。
I reminded Him that He had brought us to this place,。
that it was in response to His leading。
that we were in this place.。
This land of the in-between.。
Have you experienced that place?。
The land of the in-between?。
You're not where you once were。
and you're not where you're meant to be going。
and you're stuck in this middle ground.。
I told God I didn't understand why we were suffering.。
I couldn't take it anymore.。
I found myself surrendering afresh.。
My family, my future.。
And I told God, "You have to come through."。
It was in that same week that we heard。
that our visa applications had finally been approved.。
When we arrived in Hong Kong,。
I saw our kids who had endured such change。
in the last eight months,。
such upheaval.。
They hadn't had a home.。
They hadn't had proper schooling.。
But I saw them quickly adapt to Hong Kong.。
It felt so easy.。
It felt like perfect timing in a hundred different ways.。
Desperation has a season and it has a purpose.。
Desperation is meant to lead us to an encounter with God,。
a place where we discover hope, peace,。
a place where we discover we can depend on God,。
a place where we can experience greater fruitfulness.。
Hannah's desperation drives her to God.。
In her deep anguish, Hannah prayed.。
Prayed to the Lord, weeping bitterly,。
she vowed, "Lord Almighty,。
if you will only look on your servant's misery。
and remember me and not forget your servant,。
but give me a son,。
I will give him to you for all the days of his life."。
Hannah's desperation drove her to God.。
Where is your desperation driving you?。
Is your desperation causing you to try to figure out life。
on your own?。
Is it driving you to places that you were never meant to go?。
Or is it causing you to rely on things。
that you were never meant to place your trust in?。
You see, there are many stories in the Bible。
of desperate people.。
And one of them, Jonah,。
his desperation drove him into the darkness。
of the belly of a big fish.。
Has your desperation driven you into some dark places?。
When we choose to let our desperation drive us to God,。
we encounter him.。
Why?。
Because he hears the cries of the desperate.。
And he responds.。
He promises.。
He says, "Draw near to me and I will draw near to you."。
Psalm 107 reminds us that no matter the cause。
of our desperation,。
when we cry out to the Lord,。
he hears us and he delivers us from our distress.。
Psalm 147 verse three says,。
"He heals the brokenhearted and he binds up our wounds."。
Hannah cries out to God and her desperation。
causes her to encounter God。
and she experiences his faithfulness.。
She regains her hope and her life becomes a better place。
and her life becomes far more fruitful。
than she could have ever imagined.。
We pick up the story from 1 Samuel 1 verses 19 to 28.。
Then they rose early in the morning。
and worshipped before the Lord。
and returned and came to their house at Ramah.。
And Elkanah knew Hannah, his wife,。
and the Lord remembered her.。
So it came to pass in the process of time。
that Hannah conceived and bore a son。
and called his name Samuel,。
saying, "Because I have asked for him from the Lord."。
Now the man Elkanah and all his house。
went up to offer the Lord the yearly sacrifice。
and his vow,。
but Hannah did not go up,。
for she said to her husband,。
"Not until the child is weaned,。
then I will take him that he may appear before the Lord。
and remain there forever."。
So Elkanah, her husband, said to her,。
"Do what seems best to you.。
Wait until you have weaned him.。
Only let the Lord establish his word."。
Then the woman stayed and nursed her son。
until she had weaned him.。
Now when she had weaned him,。
she took him up with her with three bulls,。
one ephah of flour and a skin of wine,。
and brought him to the house of the Lord in Shiloh,。
and the child was young.。
Then they slaughtered a bull。
and brought the child to Eli,。
and she said, "Oh my Lord, as your soul lives, my Lord,。
I am the woman who stood by you here praying to the Lord.。
For this child I prayed,。
and the Lord has granted me my petition,。
which I asked of him.。
Therefore, I also have lent him to the Lord.。
As long as he lives, he shall be lent to the Lord."。
So they worshipped the Lord there.。
Hannah receives a son.。
She names him Samuel, meaning God has heard.。
And God redeems all her affliction.。
He redeems all her suffering。
by unveiling his wondrous plan.。
You see, Samuel goes on to serve as a priest.。
He becomes the first prophet and the last judge of Israel.。
Samuel's life was pivotal in Israel's history.。
If Hannah had not walked the journey she did,。
would she have been willing to surrender the one thing。
she wanted more than anything in this world, a child?。
I don't think so.。
Some of you here today are wrestling with God。
because he is challenging you to surrender something。
in your life that is very precious to you.。
It could be a dream for a spouse, a dream for a child.。
He might be challenging you about an unhealthy relationship。
that he wants you to let go of.。
It could be a job that has become everything to you.。
You're sitting here today and you know what it's like。
to feel afflicted, to not have peace.。
Let your desperation drive you to God,。
drive you to surrender all those things into his hands.。
You see, like Hannah, God's plans for you are better.。
They far surpass your own.。
Choose to trust like Hannah did, that his plans for you。
are to prosper you, to give you a future and a hope.。
Hannah surrenders Samuel because she comes to understand。
that all good things, they come from God.。
There's a lesson here.。
We are not to hold on tightly to the things God gives us.。
We need to be willing to have open hands。
and a surrendered heart.。
Hannah in her surrender discovers that when we do surrender。
God pours so much more into our lives.。
Listen to her prayer after she surrenders Samuel。
to the temple.。
My heart rejoices in the Lord.。
In the Lord my horn is lifted high,。
my mouth boasts over my enemies,。
for I delight in your deliverance.。
There is no one holy like the Lord.。
There is no one besides you.。
There is no rock like our God.。
Do not keep talking so proudly or let your mouth speak。
such arrogance, for the Lord is a God who knows。
and by Him deeds are weighed.。
The bows of the warriors are broken,。
but those who stumbled are armed with strength.。
Those who were full hire themselves out for food,。
but those who were hungry are hungry no more.。
She who was barren has born seven children,。
but she who has had many sons pines away.。
The Lord brings death and makes alive,。
He brings down to the grave and raises up.。
The Lord sends poverty and wealth,。
He humbles and He exalts.。
He raises the poor from the dust。
and lifts the needy from the ash heap.。
He seats them with princes and has them inherit。
a throne of honour.。
For the foundations of the earth are the Lord's,。
on them He has set the world.。
He will guard the feet of His faithful servants,。
but the wicked will be silenced in the place of darkness.。
It is not by strength that one prevails.。
Those who oppose the Lord will be broken.。
The most high will thunder from heaven,。
the Lord will judge the ends of the earth,。
He will give strength to His King。
and exalt the horn of His anointed.。
Hannah worships God because she gets a glimpse。
of His sovereignty and how everything in our lives。
can be worked together for good。
when we are willing to live a surrendered life.。
Hannah goes on to be blessed with five more children.。
God never intended her to stay barren and desperate。
and neither does He desire that for you.。
If you are feeling barren, if you are feeling empty,。
closed up, shut up, lifeless, hopeless, helpless,。
unfruitful, desperate or in despair,。
if you have been praying and longing for something。
for so long and feel as though God has forgotten you,。
know that in all of this, it has a season。
and it has a purpose.。
You were never meant to stay in this place of desperation.。
Let it lead you to an encounter with God.。
Like Hannah, pour out your soul and cry out, "Remember me."。
Can you stand with me today?。
Can you just close your eyes。
and let every distraction just fade away?。
(gentle music)。
Hannah's desperation was not of her own making.。
God had woven it into her story。
to bring her to a place of surrender,。
to draw her into His greatest story and purpose.。
Some of you here today are like Hannah.。
You are experiencing desperation。
but it is not of your own making.。
God has woven it into your story。
to bring you to a place of surrender.。
But some of you here today,。
you are experiencing desperation, deep dissatisfaction,。
even despair and it is of your own making.。
Your choices have led you into some dark places,。
some empty places,。
places that lured with the promise of so much。
but have left you feeling hollow and ashamed.。
Let your desperation drive you into the arms of God.。
And some today, you are not desperate enough.。
You're complacent.。
You're letting life just wash over you.。
The words directionless and meaningless,。
you know those words.。
Ephesians 5:14 says,。
Awake you who sleep,。
arise from the dead and Christ will give you light.。
Encounter God today.。
Surrender and receive His light,。
receive His presence.。
(gentle music)。
As the worship team begin to worship over us,。
I wanna leave you with this picture from Ezekiel.。
In Ezekiel, a man calls him into a river。
and it's a river made of water。
that flows from the temple of God.。
It's the presence of God.。
And Ezekiel is called into the river。
and he's called at first to ankle deep.。
And then he's called on to knee deep.。
And then he's called into his waist.。
And then he's called to a place。
where he can no longer touch,。
into the raging river,。
a river where he is completely at the mercy。
of God's presence.。
Where his feet are no longer on the ground,。
where he is completely surrendered,。
where he has no longer control.。
And it's a reminder here today。
that you were never meant to stand ankle deep。
in God's presence.。
God is calling us all to encounter Him。
in a place where we have surrendered。
all control into His hands。
and we are in His river, His presence,。
where He is in complete control.。
So today we're gonna create some space。
and time right now for you to encounter God.。
For you to just figure out where you are.。
Are you on the bank of the river?。
Far from God's presence?。
Or are you in the shallows?。
Wherever you are,。
God's call to you and promise to you is,。
if you walk in,。
if you surrender,。
if you trust Him,。
He will meet you in the depths of the river.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
