- Thank you, Carla.。
Congratulations to all the baptism candidates.。
What a wonderful day to celebrate together.。
And so yeah, as Carla said, over the past five weeks,。
we've been exploring right through the Old Testament,。
these encounters with God.。
And through looking at the different characters。
and the encounters they've had,。
the hope is that you've been challenged,。
you've been inspired, and hopefully even changed。
as you start to apply some of these things。
that we've been talking about into your own life.。
The whole heart behind this series was that,。
you know, right at the beginning of the year,。
I'm not sure if you remember,。
the word spoken over us by the Lord was intimacy.。
And these encounters prove that God is a God。
that wants to be close to us,。
that wants us to be close to him,。
that wants to reveal things about himself to us。
so that we can get to know him.。
However, and this is the other side of the coin,。
being close to God, encountering him in all we do,。
knowing and feeling the love of Jesus。
is not necessarily the end goal。
of what it means to call yourself a Christian.。
And yes, over the summer, right,。
we've had some incredible moments in this room,。
even this morning today.。
There have been times where we've been worshiping。
when it feels like we're worshiping。
with the angels themselves in heaven, right?。
Just really passionate, intimate moments of worship.。
There have been stories and testimonies shared。
where we've been moved,。
it's been encouraging for our souls.。
You've heard sermons, hopefully that you've said,。
"Yes, that's a word for me, that's so good,。
"I really resonate with that."。
We've been growing with numbers, as you can see,。
we're busting at the seams with overflow sometimes,。
community groups have been going.。
All this shows, yes, there has been sort of life。
in the church, and we thank God for this,。
and it's amazing and it's a blessing,。
but it makes being part of this community so exciting.。
Coming here on a Sunday is an amazing experience。
that we all get to enjoy together.。
But still, this is not the main goal.。
Because if all we've done is created life。
inside this building, inside the church,。
I feel like we've been missing one of the key parts。
of what it means to be called a disciple,。
to be called a follower of Jesus.。
And in fact, if this is all that we've achieved,。
maybe we've been wasting our time even,。
and God might not be as pleased with us。
as we think that he is.。
And we risk missing out on one of the main points,。
one of the most glorious things about what it means。
to be a disciple, to be a follower of Jesus.。
So what is this point I'm talking about?。
Well, you may have noticed that each time。
our Bible characters as an encounter with God,。
there is a mission, there is a greater purpose。
that goes along with it.。
It's not just for that person's benefit.。
In fact, as you've been led through the series,。
most of the time, it's at great cost and inconvenience。
for that person, great sacrifice for that person。
who God encounters.。
But there's always a bigger impact to those around them.。
We didn't look at the prophet Jeremiah.。
I saved us from that, 'cause Jeremiah is a key example。
of a prophet that encounters God, God speaks to him,。
and he hates it, actually.。
But he's like, "Stop speaking to me, Lord.。
"I can't take this."。
But it feels like there's a fire inside his bones.。
You know that Bible verse.。
Because God has spoken to him,。
he can't help but speak it back out.。
But it's not a comfortable position for him to be in.。
With Jacob, we see he wrestles with God.。
But the greater impact was to inspire。
the birth of a new nation.。
For Joshua, he encounters God,。
but the bigger part of that was to prove to the Canaanites。
that God is the only one true God.。
For Daniel, as he wrestles with King Darius。
and he gets thrown into the lion's den,。
he encounters God in the lion's den.。
The bigger impact that comes from that。
is the decree that comes at the end。
where the whole kingdom, king degrees,。
has to now worship God.。
For Elijah, it was a reminder to turn the Israelites。
back to God away from idol worship.。
For Hannah, it was the call for her to,。
she did eventually give birth to a child,。
but then she turns around and sacrifices。
and gives that child back to the Lord.。
And so it's the same for us today.。
We don't want to encounter God。
so that the church on Sundays can be this amazing gathering。
that we get to enjoy this week, each week.。
Yes, it's a privilege we get to do this,。
but what we really should be asking for。
is for God to encounter us so that he can use this body。
to work through his church, to disrupt our lives,。
to enter out of our wills and purposes。
so that he can be made known to others.。
That is what we're trying to do here this morning.。
God's heart is that we would encounter him。
so that we can make him known to everyone else.。
Psalm 46 makes this point well.。
Okay, Bible quiz for one second, okay?。
Finish this verse, "Be still and know that I am God."。
What comes next?。
But you know that's not the end of this verse, right?。
But we sing this song, right, the song "Still,"。
and we feel God close to us, but the proper end,。
this is not the end of this verse.。
So it sort of misses the point.。
Now, don't get me wrong, I'm not dissing on "Still," okay?。
It's one of my favorite songs, I love that song.。
It's carried me through some deep seasons。
of trouble in my life.。
But the entirety of that verse reads like this.。
"Be still and know that I am God.。
"I will be exalted among the nations.。
"I will be exalted in the earth."。
In other words, church is not about us.。
What God is really saying here is,。
be still and let me know that I'm close to you.。
That's not what he's saying.。
But what he's saying is,。
be still so that you can see I am God。
that is exalted over everything in this world, right?。
And that hits a little bit different。
when we look at it from that perspective。
in its entire context.。
Because it's not just about knowing God,。
it's about making him known.。
And all this talk about encountering God,。
yes, it should give you a deeper appreciation of God,。
a more intimate relationship with him.。
Yes, it should have strengthened your faith,。
but at the same time,。
it should have also given you a deeper love for others.。
Because this is God's heart for the world.。
It should have also led you to a desire。
to let other people know about him.。
It should have motivated you to think like,。
oh my goodness, God is so good, God is so amazing.。
This encounter I've had has been so powerful,。
I cannot possibly keep it to myself anymore.。
I have to tell someone about this.。
All people everywhere, all the time,。
need to know who God is.。
And I'm not gonna give myself rest。
until everyone knows out there。
that there is a God exalted over everything in this world.。
Amen?。
This is what our purpose is.。
This is what the church is for.。
In fact, this is so important to God's heart.。
Jesus' last words before he went into heaven。
was a command to make this happen.。
Jesus says, "All authority in heaven and on earth。
"has been given to me.。
"Therefore go and make disciples of all nations,。
"baptizing them in the name of the Father。
"and of the Son of the Holy Spirit,。
"and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you,。
"and surely I'm with you always to the very end of the age."。
The Great Commission, Matthew 28.。
In another version of this, he says it like this.。
"But you will receive power。
"when the Holy Spirit comes on you,。
"and you will be my witnesses, my declarers,。
"in Jerusalem, in Judea, and Samaria,。
"and to the ends of the earth."。
Acts 1:8.。
Right, notice what Jesus didn't say.。
He didn't say the last thing he said.。
You know, "Hey, don't forget to come to church every Sunday."。
Right?。
That's not what he said.。
He didn't say, "Hey, don't forget to join up。
"to the community groups."。
He didn't say, "Don't forget to give your tithes。
"and your offerings."。
His last and final instructions were to go.。
Go and tell people about me.。
Go and tell people who God is.。
Go and be a witness to people。
about your encounters with me.。
Make disciples, baptize them,。
teach them what I've taught you.。
These are verbs, these are action words。
called for us to go and do.。
So the question today is,。
are we doing the work of making disciples?。
Are we proclaiming to Jesus。
is to those who don't know him yet?。
Are we taking action to make Jesus known to everyone?。
And how do we do this, church?。
We do this by preaching the word.。
If we want God to be lifted high in this world,。
if we want Jesus to be exalted as a name above all names,。
we, as his children, as his body, have to preach the word.。
And this is the challenge from scripture。
for all of us today.。
Now, I'm not gonna try and sugarcoat anything。
because it is a massive challenge.。
But I believe it's one that we are all,。
every single person in this room, is called to respond to.。
It's a challenge that if we can commit。
to doing our very best to meet it,。
this will be the kind of community,。
the kind of society, the kind of church。
that Jesus is looking for.。
That's my introduction, okay?。
So let's look at today's passage.。
I'm reading from 2 Timothy 4, one to five.。
It says this.。
In the presence of God and of Christ Jesus。
who will judge the living and the dead,。
and in view of his appearing and his kingdom,。
I give you this charge.。
I give you this charge.。
Preach the word.。
Be prepared in season and out of season.。
Correct, rebuke, encourage with great patience。
and careful instruction.。
For the time will come when people。
will not put up with sound doctrine.。
Instead, to suit their own desires,。
they will gather around with them a great number of teachers。
to say what their itching ears want to hear.。
They will turn their ears away from the truth。
and turn aside to myths.。
But you, keep your head in all situations.。
Endure hardship.。
Do the work of an evangelist.。
Discharge all the duties of your ministry.。
Okay, this is good, I think.。
No one's running out the door so far, okay.。
So I'm gonna take it as, if you're sitting here。
continuing to listen, I'm gonna take it as。
thinking that you mean everyone's buying in.。
You're saying yes, we want to learn。
what it means to do this.。
Together we want to preach God's word.。
So we'll get to that in a minute.。
But before Paul gets to the how, how do we do this,。
first he gives us a sense of why.。
And the why is actually quite,。
it's a good reminder for us.。
The why is because time is running out.。
Paul starts his charge with a sense of urgency.。
He's telling us, this isn't something we can save for later.。
This isn't something that you put on the back burner.。
It's not a slow cooker moment.。
We'll wait and check on it later to see what happens.。
Preaching the word is a challenge。
that needs to be responded to today, right now.。
Time is of the essence.。
He says it like this, in the presence of God。
and Christ Jesus, who will judge the living and the dead,。
and in view of his appearing and his kingdom,。
I give you this charge.。
As Paul was writing this letter,。
he's writing to a young protégé,。
a young follower, disciple of his, called Timothy.。
And during the time of Paul's writing,。
he's in deep trouble, actually.。
He's imprisoned because of his dedication。
to preaching the gospel.。
And this time, he seems to be aware。
that his time on earth is limited.。
He feels like he could be executed any moment now.。
He's had a few run-ins with the law.。
He's been in prison a bunch of times.。
But this time, he just senses,。
he just knows something is different.。
I don't have much time left, so I have to tell you this.。
But this is also a reminder for us.。
Now, I'm not sure how often you think。
about the brevity of life.。
I know it's a bit of a morbid thing to think about,。
but probably day to day,。
hopefully it's not something we focus on too much.。
It kind of gets us down.。
But as your day goes past, the sun goes up,。
the sun goes down.。
We live our lives.。
We wake up, brush your teeth, hopefully,。
have breakfast, get ready to work,。
drop the kids off at school,。
argue with your partner over what to have for dinner,。
send memes to your bestie on Instagram,。
go shopping, do exercise,。
decide what to watch on Netflix,。
and then fall asleep in front of the TV, right?。
All the day to day routine of things.。
Occasionally, we might look to the future and say,。
okay, I'm gonna go on holiday here or there sometime.。
But here's the reality, church.。
The reality is tomorrow is not guaranteed for any of us.。
Everyone's time on this earth could end at any moment.。
And when that happens, we find ourselves,。
we're going to find ourselves face to face with Jesus.。
Life on earth will end in two ways.。
Either your body will stop working。
and there's a whole bunch of stuff。
that can cause that to happen,。
or Jesus comes back and nobody apart from the Father。
knows when exactly that's gonna be.。
The truth is, we don't know.。
We'll never know how close we are to the final day。
until it actually hits us.。
Which is why the Bible tells us to be careful how we live.。
Which is why it tells us where we're to live each day。
as people ready to meet Jesus face to face.。
Because when we do meet him face to face,。
we have to be ready because that means。
it's time for judgment, right?。
We're gonna meet Jesus face to face.。
Either he's gonna come back to fully reclaim this earth,。
and when we do see him,。
there's gonna be some questions he's gonna ask us.。
He's coming back, it says,。
to judge the living and the dead.。
So what's he gonna judge us on?。
Well, he's gonna ask us questions, I think,。
things like this.。
Have you been a good and faithful servant?。
Have you loved me with all your heart,。
mind, soul, and strength?。
Have you loved others as I have loved you?。
Have you looked after the widows and the orphans?。
Have you been a voice of justice。
to the weak and the oppressed?。
All of which can be summed up in this question, I think.。
Have you preached the word of God?。
Church, are we living in the light of Jesus's return?。
Do we live life knowing that it could。
truly be over at any moment?。
And because of this, do we realize。
that there's a severe urgency in the way we live?。
Because of this, we have to preach the word.。
Preach the word, be prepared in and out of season。
to correct, rebuke, encourage with great patience。
and careful instruction.。
Preach the word, church.。
Okay, I know, this is the preacher on a Sunday。
telling people to preach the word, right?。
This is your job, right?。
We pay you to do this, right?。
This is what you're important for, Alison.。
And yes, right, part of what we do on a Sunday。
is to preach the word.。
And for me, on a personal level,。
I feel like this is something that God's called me to do,。
I enjoy doing, right?。
This is a part of my ministry.。
However, the word preached does not mean。
the preaching, the teaching, unpacking of God's word。
at 11, 15, 12, and 9 or 15 on a Sunday, right?。
That's not what it means.。
Preach simply means to proclaim or to talk about.。
And when Paul says the word,。
it's not referring to just the actual words。
of scripture itself, but the word is really referring。
to the overall Christian message, right?。
The message of truth and love and hope.。
The message that King Jesus is the one。
who is the one true King, King of all kings.。
He loved you enough to go to the cross for you。
as a sacrifice.。
That is life, death, and resurrection means grace,。
mercy, and forgiveness to all who will put their trust。
in him.。
But here's the other thing as well.。
Preaching is not just with words.。
Part of preaching also has to be how we live our lives,。
right?。
Do we live a life that is in tune with Jesus?。
Like I was saying just now, do we love others like he does?。
Do we serve the poor and the marginalized?。
Are we living in the truth?。
Do we resist temptation and evil?。
We preach the word also when we live a life。
that reflects the life of Jesus.。
So preaching the word means talking about。
and demonstrating the message of Jesus.。
Now this is something everyone can do.。
Not just the man behind the, not just the person,。
the man or woman behind the pulpit,。
but every single person.。
And this challenge is one that we've got to,。
we have to live by all of the time.。
In Paul's word he says, "In season and out of season."。
Now if you look through my Instagram algorithm,。
there's a lot of random stuff,。
a lot of parenting tips, pranks you play on people,。
easy recipes, but also motivational things, right?。
There's a motivational guy, I'm not gonna call his name,。
he uses a lot of very colorful language.。
Sometimes I listen to him to get myself。
to get ready to work out or something like that.。
But if motivational quotes are your thing,。
you've probably heard some of these, right?。
Failure to prepare is what?。
Preparation to fail.。
Ooh, yeah.。
Stay ready so you don't have to get ready.。
All those kind of things, right?。
Now, this is something that I've noticed.。
We like to apply this mindset。
to certain aspects of our life, right?。
Stay on the grind.。
Right, when it comes to things like working out。
or chasing your personal goal, reaching your dreams,。
come on, yeah, no days off, let's get it,。
let's go, let's go, let's go, right?。
These are the kind of things。
that we like to motivate ourselves with.。
But for some reason when it comes to preaching。
and living out the word, whew,。
suddenly we don't feel like we're ready.。
Suddenly we're full of excuses.。
Things like, oh, you know,。
I don't really know the Bible well enough yet。
to go and talk to that person about it.。
It's gonna be really awkward if I ask that person。
and if I can pray for them, right?。
Now, this person's gonna think I'm a weirdo。
if I ask them if they want to know who Jesus is.。
You know, I don't have much time right now.。
I'm busy.。
I'll serve the community next year.。
It's not just a good time for me right now.。
I'm gonna wait for a better occasion before I,。
you can fill in the blank.。
But God's word here gives us no room for excuses.。
And the truth is this,。
if we're always waiting for the right time,。
we'll always find a right reason to put it off.。
This is what procrastination is.。
Like, trust me, okay?。
Like my wife always says, don't you know,。
I always say to my wife, excuse me,。
don't remind me every six months, okay?。
I'm gonna get round to fixing that cupboard。
in the wardrobe, okay?。
Procrastination, I wrestle with it.。
But here's the point.。
If we only preach the gospel in times。
and conditions were right, it would never get done.。
And the challenge here is this,。
whether the time seems right or not,。
that's not what matters.。
What matters is your readiness and your willingness。
to preach the word.。
Paul is saying here, preaching the word。
isn't something that we clock in and out of,。
something that we can just complementalize。
as part of our lives, but this is something,。
if we want to stay on the grind for something,。
do it for the sake of preaching the gospel.。
Now, I'll caveat with this.。
At the same time, right, this doesn't constantly mean。
going round bashing people in the head with a Bible.。
That's not what it's calling us to do here, though.。
All right, don't get weird about it.。
Maybe you know people like this too, right?。
You can't even have a normal conversation.。
For someone like this, say,。
you ask them for a cup of water because you're thirsty,。
and instead of just handing you a cup of water,。
they'll say something like,。
oh, I know you're thirsty, brother,。
but do you know something else?。
You should be thirsty for the Lord, you know,。
and you need the Holy Spirit in your life, right?。
Don't be that guy either, okay?。
That's not what it's calling us to do.。
The key here, okay, is to be prepared.。
Be prepared so that when that moment comes,。
whenever that is, whether it's convenient or not,。
you are ready to preach the Word.。
And we preach this Word, we believe in this Word,。
we live by this Word because the Word has power.。
In other places, Paul would say that the Word。
is like a double-edged sword, dividing soul and spirit.。
Early in the book of 2 Timothy,。
the Word is described as useful for teaching,。
rebuking, correcting, and training in righteousness.。
In Romans, it tells us that faith comes。
from hearing the Word, and the Word is heard through,。
and the message is heard through the Word about Christ.。
Isaiah tells us that the only thing。
that's gonna last forever in this world is the Word of God.。
And Paul here says the Word has the power.。
It's got power to change people's lives.。
It's got the power to correct, rebuke, and encourage.。
Again, let's pause here to take a look at these words。
because they sound kind of serious,。
kind of scary, kind of judgmental.。
But I think what Paul's trying to do here。
is explain how the power of God's Word。
has an immediate effect on our lives.。
So the first word he says is to correct.。
Correct means that the Word is able。
to guide us back onto the right path.。
Scripture says the Word of the Lord is a lamp to my feet。
and a guide unto my path.。
Now, this might make us a bit nervous。
because we live in a time and age。
where things don't really seem to have a right and a wrong.。
Right, and when this is the case,。
then there isn't really anything to correct.。
What's true for you might not be true for me,。
but that's okay, right?。
We'll just agree to disagree.。
But the fact that God's Word can be used to correct。
means that there is a right way.。
There is an objective truth。
that we can point people back towards.。
There is a standard which God expects His people to live by.。
And God's Word is how we know what that is.。
It's through God's Word that we know。
how He wants us to live.。
It's through God's Word that we can always。
point our lives back when it seems to go off course.。
His Word becomes like the north star in our life。
by which we navigate our life by.。
So it's useful for correcting.。
Now rebuking is the next word.。
This word might make us even more nervous。
because it's not just about now。
pointing out something that is wrong.。
It sounds like it's giving some kind of punishment.。
But again, you know, the world might say, "How dare you?。
"Who do you think you are。
"to have the right to rebuke people?"。
But again, let me give you another way to look at it.。
If we're the ones who know the Word, right,。
and we believe the Word is the truth,。
if we're the ones that know the Word is the truth。
and it's the correct way to live,。
and we see people around us going down a path。
that is away from the Word,。
going in the wrong direction,。
in a direction that's going to lead to pain。
and destruction and death instead of life,。
and life in the full,。
then you tell me what's the more loving thing to do.。
To continue to let that person。
or those people go down that path?。
Or do everything you can to pull them back。
towards the truth, to rebuke and to correct,。
to lead them back on the path that leads to Jesus?。
Okay, but here's the key.。
And this is very important as well,。
because often this is the part I think we get wrong.。
Because when our methods of correcting and rebuking。
are not done in the right way,。
it can actually be really damaging。
and leads to hurting people.。
It leads to Christians being labeled。
and sometimes justifiably as being mean。
and arrogant, judgmental, hypocritical.。
So when we talk about correcting and rebuking,。
it has to be done in the right way.。
Which is why Paul adds at the end of this,。
the right way to do this is through encouragement.。
To encourage means to urge,。
to come alongside, to support,。
not to bash over the head, okay?。
That's not encouraging.。
And with encouragement, it's also done。
with great patience and careful instruction.。
You see, we just correct and rebuke。
without patience and grace,。
that does not reflect the heart of God.。
And we come off as jerks and bad and hypocritical.。
Actually, when we do this,。
we don't just dishonor the name of yourself,。
but it also dishonors the name of Jesus.。
It makes him seem like a bad guy who's not caring,。
who's not patient, who's not full of grace and mercy.。
We have to understand that it's a journey。
to learn how to live according to the word,。
just like it's been a journey for you.。
And we can't expect people to get it right straight away.。
And when we rebuke without careful instruction,。
it leaves people feeling confused and frustrated.。
It's like telling somebody that they're wrong,。
but never explaining why.。
And when we correct without patience,。
it leaves people feeling frustrated and uncared for,。
like there's some sort of project。
that we've been sent to fix。
just to take that off our list.。
So it has to be done with love, with grace,。
with mercy, with great patience and encouragement.。
And then Paul wants us to understand this,。
scripture wants us to understand this,。
it's not going to be easy.。
Preaching and living out the word。
is going to come with a whole lot of pushback,。
resistance and even rebellion.。
He says it like this, "For the time will come。
when people will not put up with sound doctrine.。
Instead, to suit their own desires,。
they will gather around them a great number of teachers。
to say what the itching ears want to hear.。
They will turn away from the truth and turn aside to myths."。
Right, in other words, there is a time coming。
when people will not like the word that we're gonna bring.。
Right, they're not gonna like the word。
that is gonna keep them close to God.。
They're not gonna like the word。
that will help them be more like Jesus.。
They're not gonna like teaching。
that's gonna keep them strong in the Lord.。
They're not gonna like it。
when they're corrected and rebuked。
because in their minds, they've already made up,。
you know, the decision of what is right and what is wrong.。
So instead of listening to the truth,。
instead of listening to what is good,。
they will simply find people to tell them。
whatever it is they want to hear,。
to tickle their ears,。
to make them feel better about themselves,。
thinking they can just rest easy,。
ignoring the fact that like we said at the beginning,。
Jesus is coming back to judge.。
And one day, we're gonna have to give an account。
of how we've lived to him.。
This isn't a prophetic warning over the church.。
Now, let's look at it this way, okay?。
Suppose you go for a checkup with your doctor。
and the doctor tells you, "You know what?。
"Cholesterol's looking kind of high.。
"Sugar level's kind of high.。
"Your heart's struggling a bit.。
"Maybe lay off the sugary foods, you know,。
"do more exercise, drink more water, sleep earlier.。
"Make a few changes because you're not healthy, right?"。
Oh, okay, not my recent checkup, I hope, okay?。
But imagine you went to the doctor and they told you that.。
Oh, but you don't want to do that, right?。
You want donuts for life.。
You say, "I'm not here for a long time.。
"I'm here for a good time, right?。
"I don't want to be skinny and healthy.。
"I want to be fat and happy," right?。
And so you keep finding doctors.。
You keep finding doctors until you one find that says,。
"Oh, yeah, you know, whatever, yeah, it's high,。
"but it's not like really high."。
And actually, you know what?。
Donuts actually have a lot of nutrients in them, right?。
So like, donuts aren't the worst, okay?。
So in fact, you know what?。
I've read a recent report that sweat's not good for you.。
It clogs up your pores, right?。
And so, and you know, too much water isn't bad.。
You need some electrolytes in your life as well.。
So you know, like fizzy drinks, that's also fine, right?。
This is the kind of thinking that the church。
is in danger of, right?。
The trend that people just wanting to hear。
whatever they want to hear.。
The trend of people being told, "You're fine.。
"Don't change.。
"You don't need to discipline yourself.。
"You don't need to believe everything that Jesus says.。
"You do you, and it's all good."。
Listen, if you want to have your ears tickled,。
there are gonna be people out there。
who will tickle your ears in all sorts of ways.。
People like, not gonna go there, okay?。
But there will be people, okay, that will lie to you,。
okay, and say things like, "Jesus promised you prosperity.。
"You just gotta name it and claim it,。
"and then it's yours," right?。
That's what Jesus says, right?。
They will take a verse like Psalm 37, four.。
Look, it says right here in the Bible,。
"God will give you the desires of your heart."。
So you're just gonna pray to God,。
and he's gonna give you everything you want, right?。
They will twist and turn and corrupt the word of God。
so that people can feel as though they're following him。
without any cost, without any discipline,。
without any sacrifice in their lives.。
All this to say, if we're gonna commit。
to preaching the word, make sure we're preaching the word,。
not some watered-down, weakened,。
fluffy, ear-tickling version of it.。
And we have to watch out for this。
because this version is not the gospel.。
It might be what people want to hear,。
but it's not gonna be what they need.。
This version of the word will strip it from its power.。
This version of the word will carry no ability。
to set people free, to bring real hope, real life,。
real salvation to a world out there。
that's lost and suffering.。
Woe to me if I don't preach the gospel.。
If we are truly committed to preaching the word,。
this church, brothers and sisters,。
is what we're gonna have to put up with.。
Which is why Paul points us with this final encouragement.。
But you, keep your head.。
In all situations, endure hardship,。
do the work of an evangelist,。
discharge all the duties of your ministry.。
In other words, Paul is saying,。
if you're finding this difficult to do,。
if it's a challenge, if it's hard,。
if you're coming against pushback,。
then you're probably doing the right thing.。
We are called to be different.。
We have been called to stand firm.。
We have been called not to turn to this and that,。
but rather, as it says here,。
keep your head in all situations.。
Don't be enticed by these false teachings,。
but focus on what you know is true.。
Endure hardship.。
As we do this, we know it's not going to be easy.。
Like we saw with the people we studied,。
it's gonna be difficult and painful at times,。
but let me ask you this, church,。
did you start following Jesus in order to have an easy life?。
I hope not.。
I hope your decision to follow Jesus。
was because you came to realize that he is the true king.。
You came to follow Jesus because you realized。
he is the only way, the truth, and the life.。
So we go on announcing Jesus is Lord.。
And no matter what happens, what's required is not success。
as the world sees success,。
but rather loyalty and perseverance to preaching his word.。
This is why the task, therefore, is to preach the word,。
do the work of the evangelist,。
an evangelist, the one that preaches and lives out。
and speaks the word of God.。
Never stop proclaiming the gospel in everything that you do.。
There is work to be done.。
And like I said, time is short.。
And now that we've encountered God, we know him,。
we come together each and every Sunday and we encounter him,。
now it's on us to preach the word.。
You may have classmates or schoolmates。
who have not yet heard the gospel.。
There may be family out there。
who are still to discover who Jesus is.。
You have colleagues who are lost and wondering,。
where is the purpose and direction of my life?。
There's an opportunity there to point them towards Jesus.。
We have a city, 90-something percent of our city in Hong Kong。
still don't really know who Jesus is.。
And look around us, church.。
Each week we have more than 1,000 people,。
that's a lot of people, coming into this building.。
We worship, we connect, we encourage, we love, we care,。
we give, we do all these things within the building。
in the name of Jesus.。
And I love this church, I love the community,。
I love being part of the team here,。
but I'm fully convinced also。
that this is not all it's meant to be.。
And at the end of every Sunday, I always think to myself,。
what if, what if every single person here。
committed to preaching the word outside of this space?。
What if every single person here。
committed to help people around them。
to come to a faith in Jesus through encouragement,。
through love, through patience, no matter how hard it gets?。
This is the key, this is how the world is changed.。
Look, it started from 12 disciples following Jesus。
to the billions of Christians。
that we see worshiping Jesus today.。
And that mission, that call continues for us。
to go and continue to preach the word.。
This is how we truly fulfill our purpose。
of lifting up the name of Jesus.。
So church, I challenge us, I challenge you and myself,。
preach the word in and out of season.。
Carry out your giftings, use them for the glory of God,。
to show the people around you who God truly is.。
This is what we've been called to do as a body of Christ.。
If you would close your eyes for a minute,。
I'm gonna pray for us, I'm gonna give us some guidance。
around what now to do next.。
(soft music)。
As we've been listening and thinking,。
and maybe the Holy Spirit's already been speaking to you。
about a name, someone that you need to go and talk to,。
a task that he's entrusted you to do.。
(soft music)。
A challenge, something that you've put off for a while,。
but now the Lord is reminding you of it.。
Or maybe even a new, a fresh word,。
something that he's revealed to you。
in the course of the past 30 minutes or so.。
Whatever it is, this is something that literally,。
every single person in this room,。
without excuse, can respond to.。
And that there's a task for everyone to do.。
There is a person, there's a situation,。
there's something that you can preach the word of God to。
in your own context, in where God has placed you.。
And so Jesus, I pray that you would reveal those things。
to us.。
We thank you for this, Lord.。
We thank you that you love the world so much,。
and not just the people who are within your church already,。
but our call, Lord, is to make disciples,。
to baptize, to glorify your name, to make it known,。
to tell people out there who need salvation,。
that time is short,。
that life on this earth is precious and fleeting,。
and that Jesus will come back one day.。
So Lord, give us no rest until everyone。
is calling out your name.。
And help us, Lord, use us for the job of preaching your word,。
for the job of, for the task of, for the purpose of。
letting people around you, letting people around us。
know who you are, and how great and how glorious you are,。
but also how loving and kind you are.。
Use this church for this purpose, Lord.。
And family, if you would like to respond to this,。
I just ask you to simply stand up and say,。
I'm gonna do this, Lord.。
I'm not sure why or how or what it means exactly yet,。
but I'm gonna trust in you, Jesus.。
And I'm willing, Lord, to preach the word,。
to make disciples, to let people around me know about you.。
If you're willing to respond to that, church,。
I invite you to stand and worship together。
with your brothers and sisters around you。
to encourage each other in this journey.。
May God lead us and guide us and have mercy on us.。
We do this all in the name of Jesus Christ, our Savior.。
Amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
