Well, welcome to The Vine.。
Welcome, if you're joining us online,。
a big welcome to you as well.。
We are in week two of our sermon series in James.。
If you haven't caught up with last week,。
because we had the typhoon,。
the messages up online,。
Pastor Philip gave a wonderful, beautiful message。
to start us off in this series.。
And so if you haven't checked that out yet,。
I highly encourage you to do so,。
and so we can continue on our journey today.。
So James chapter two, if you have a Bible,。
you can keep that open.。
We're gonna be reading through the passage together.。
So one thing I figured out about myself。
is that people have a hard time。
sort of placing where I'm from.。
Right, so for example,。
and I just got back from visiting my wife's family。
in Northeast Texas, small town there,。
but every time I'm there,。
inevitably people mistake me for being Mexican, right?。
'Cause there's not very many Asian people there, right?。
And because of my complexion, I tan very, very easily.。
In fact, let me show you a picture right now, okay?。
So take a look at this picture, okay?。
Can you tell me what that is?。
Right, so that is my arm next to my wife's arm, okay?。
This is after, yeah, right?。
This is a Stevie Wonder song in a picture, okay?。
Like, it's incredible, okay?。
I just tan very, very easily,。
and my wife is very white, okay?。
But that's just, you know, that's what happens to me。
when I spend some time in the sun, okay?。
I get dark, and people have a hard time。
placing where I am, right?。
So in Texas, right, in Brittany's hometown, I am Mexican,。
okay, look like Jorge, sound like George, okay?。
So it's like my accent throws people off completely.。
They don't have a clue where I'm from.。
But often here in Hong Kong, too,。
I get mistaken for different ethnicities, nationalities,。
right, people never think I'm Chinese,。
and I know this because when they come and talk to me,。
they always start a conversation in English.。
And so, you know, people think I'm Filipino,。
they think I'm Nepalese or Thai,。
Indonesian, Malaysian, anything else.。
And so it's sort of like a superpower for me, I guess.。
So I can be all things to all people, right?。
Amen, yes, so.。
Actually, this comes in super handy,。
especially when I'm on holiday in Southeast Asia.。
So this one time I was in Thailand on holiday in Hua Hin,。
and I decided to go and check out。
some local kickboxing matches, you know,。
UFC and kickboxing, wrestling,。
I love all that kind of stuff.。
So I go downtown to Hua Hin, I'm dressed like a local,。
so you know, flip flops, faded jeans, faded t-shirt,。
and everyone thinks I'm, I sit down,。
you know, people talk to me in Thai,。
I try to order the food in Thai,。
you know, just very minimal conversation,。
and I'm trying to get by as a local.。
And so when I get down to the kickboxing stadium,。
you notice this, I notice there's two lines,。
one for foreigners and one for locals, right?。
If you go through the foreigner line,。
first of all, it's more expensive,。
and the seats are like up in the bleachers,。
you know, you're away from all the action.。
But if you go to the locals line, it's cheaper to get in,。
and plus, like, you're like right there。
in the pit around the ring, like ringside seats.。
And so I look, people up there seem very, you know,。
conservative and boring, just sitting there.。
Down at the pit, you know, people were like shouting,。
and like, you know, the fighters were hanging out there,。
it just seemed like a more fun place to be.。
So I thought, okay, I'm gonna try, okay,。
I'm gonna go into the local line and see what happens.。
So, you know, I just stand back,。
observe what people are doing, and then that's what I do,。
right, I get my money ready, you know,。
go, don't say much, just give them the exact money,。
and I let get into the local line.。
Nobody questions me about who I am, right?。
And it was amazing, right?。
The atmosphere in there was so loud,。
people shouting, all sorts of things, you know,。
so every time someone would shout something,。
I would just shout the same thing, right?。
Probably curse words or whatever it was I was shouting,。
people taking bets, I was throwing money around,。
I had no idea what was going on,。
but I had the best time of my life, right?。
So exciting being there.。
But then the fights were over.。
And I left the stadium, and I was just back。
to being normal Ellison again, right?。
I was never a Thai local, I just looked the part。
for a moment.。
And so this made me wonder, right,。
does this happen with our relationship,。
with our dedication and our faith in Jesus?。
Most of us in this room today,。
most of us watching online would probably profess。
with our mouth that Jesus is our Lord and Savior.。
Most of us would say we have a faith in Jesus.。
If you remember what Philip talked about last week,。
he was talking about people asking him and his child。
what religion they are, right?。
If people ask you what religion are you,。
you would probably say, well yes, I'm a Christian.。
Right, and we gather together,。
and we all know how to look the part,。
especially in an environment like this, right,。
where we're singing and praising, we can lift our hands,。
we can kneel down on the floor, right?。
If you've been in church for a while,。
you probably know how to speak Christianese, right?。
All these things on the outside we can present。
as a person who looks like they have。
a dedicated faith to Jesus.。
But throughout the book of James,。
one of the key things we're gonna try to be figuring out。
is how pure our religion is.。
In other words, how do I know。
if we really have a faith in Jesus?。
How do you know your faith is genuine?。
And even if I was to ask this more directly,。
does the faith you profess match up。
with the way we live our life?。
Do we have the kind of faith that God is looking for?。
And if so, what are some of the hallmarks。
that genuine faith in Jesus looks like?。
As we walk through the book of James,。
you're gonna figure out this is the kind of faith。
that doesn't get tossed and turned around。
with the trials of life.。
It's a faith that's completely counter-cultural。
to the ways of this world.。
It's a kind of faith that is accompanied with action.。
So like I said, James chapter two,。
we're gonna open it up, this is what it says.。
My brothers and sisters,。
believers in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ。
must not show favoritism.。
Suppose a man comes into your meeting。
wearing a gold ring and fine clothes,。
and a poor man in filthy old clothes also comes in.。
If you show special attention。
to the man you're wearing fine clothes,。
say, "Here's a good seat for you,"。
but say to the poor man, "You stand there。
"or sit on the floor by my feet."。
Have you not discriminated among yourselves。
and become judges with evil thoughts?。
So one of the first things James is trying to address。
in this part of his letter。
is something called favoritism.。
Now, this isn't saying that as people of faith,。
you can't have certain preferences at all.。
Like for example, if you like strawberry ice cream。
instead of chocolate chip cookie dough ice cream,。
I'd say you're a crazy person,。
but go ahead, right, get strawberry。
if you think that's better, right?。
This is not what it's talking about.。
What James is talking about。
is a toxic, evil kind of favoritism.。
Favoritism that is rooted in injustice and discrimination.。
Favoritism that judges people。
by worldly standards and values.。
And unfortunately, the scenario James is talking about。
happens all the time in this city in Hong Kong.。
I'm talking about people being judged。
by their economic status.。
There is a disparity in the city。
between the rich and the poor,。
and it's very clearly seen as we go about everyday life.。
We have in Hong Kong the largest wealth inequality。
in the world.。
Consistently, this is something。
we shouldn't be proud about, right?。
This is one of the top three most expensive places to live.。
Hong Kong, Singapore, Sydney, places like that.。
In Hong Kong, it's (speaking in foreign language)。
If you're rich, you can have it all.。
It's often the rich that get the honor and the privileges.。
It's often the rich get special treatment。
and recognition, and meanwhile, the poor are overlooked.。
The poor have to eke out a living。
in the world's most expensive city,。
cram their families into these tiny, subdivided flats,。
not being able to afford the many things。
that we might take for granted.。
But the truth is, and this is not a small part。
of our population, 1.39, 1.4 million people。
in Hong Kong live below the poverty line.。
How's this for a statistic?。
Oxfam in 2024 found that the median monthly income。
for the poorest 10% of households was only $1,600,。
$1,600 per month, and this was a drop。
from before the pandemic, okay?。
In contrast, the wealthiest 10% of households。
have a median income of $131,000.。
This is a rise in 10% from 2019.。
The rich are getting richer, the poor are getting poorer,。
a disparity of almost 90 times between these two groups.。
Now, I felt the sting of this firsthand somewhat.。
When I was a teenager, my mom would make me。
do all sorts of jobs, right?。
So I've worked at all kinds of, I've delivered food。
on the street in Central, I've worked at a carnival,。
I've worked at a doctor's office,。
there's a receptionist, all these kind of jobs.。
Her idea was to expose me to the different ways。
that people live from my relatively sheltered。
and comfortable life that I had,。
so all kinds of summer jobs.。
And one of the summers, I found myself working。
at a warehouse in Kwun Tong.。
Now, I got the job there because my uncle。
was the manager of the warehouse, my dad's older brother,。
right, and so, and this is the kind of place。
where all your sort of dry goods at the supermarket。
sort of sit there before they get shipped off。
to the park and shops and welcomes and all that stuff.。
So I'm talking about like toothpaste, toilet paper,。
bleach, cleaning products, all that kind of stuff。
is put in these warehouses, and my job was to pull them off。
these shelves, put them into boxes ready for them。
to be shipped to the different locations, right?。
And it was dusty, it was dirty, it was hot.。
My salary was 25 Hong Kong dollars an hour, okay?。
$25 an hour, this is about the year 2000,。
something like that.。
Now, for me, I was just doing it。
as some sort of an experience.。
But I worked with two lovely old ladies。
who would sit there with me, and I was climbing up,。
then they were packing the stuff.。
But they were doing this for a living, all right?。
25 Hong Kong dollars to survive in Hong Kong.。
And yet, they were some of the most generous people。
I've ever met.。
Every now and then, they would take me out for lunch, right?。
This meant going down to the canteen downstairs。
where a meal was like 25 to like $40.。
So they were spending 40, as much as I insisted,。
I don't need this, 40% of their daily income。
to buy me lunch, living on $25 an hour.。
They had no idea that my uncle was their boss, right?。
They were just doing it because they loved。
and they cared because that was their heart.。
Now, in the same building, there were the corporate offices。
on the upper floors, right?。
This space was cool and air conditioned, right?。
People wore suits and leather shoes,。
making much more than $25 an hour.。
So I remember, true story, one time I needed to go up。
to the office floor to collect something, right?。
I was all dirty and stinky from working in the warehouse.。
I needed a drink of water, so there's a water cooler。
right there, so I went to get a drink of water,。
only to be stopped by a member of staff there。
and said, "Hey, don't do that.。
"Warehouse workers aren't allowed here.。
"If you need a drink, you need to go back downstairs.。
"You're getting everything all dirty up here.。
"Don't stay up here."。
The way I wanted to say, "Do you know who my uncle is?"。
Okay, like I didn't, okay, so, right,。
don't do that either.。
But stuff like that happens all the time in this city, right?。
I'm not sure, I'm sure I'm not the only one。
who has encountered this.。
If there ever was a city where the poor and the rich。
live right next to each other,。
yet are treated very differently,。
it's right here in Hong Kong.。
Being rich gets you preferential treatment,。
and it so happens that back then,。
in the time of James, it was the same thing.。
2,000 years, not much has changed.。
Now, the question for us is,。
would we let this happen in our church?。
On a more personal level,。
would you react this way yourself?。
And James tells us in this letter。
that if we find ourselves being inclined。
to treat the rich with special attention,。
but look down on the poor, this is discriminatory.。
It's judgmental, and it's evil。
because it goes against the very heart of God.。
Now, of course, it's tempting to act in this way.。
We like to cozy up to the rich and the powerful。
because of the benefits that it might have upon us.。
We honor them in hopes that they will give us。
some of their money and their wealth.。
We do it out of the way for them。
because maybe one day, they're gonna help us back.。
You scratch my back, I scratch yours,。
that sort of mentality.。
But what can a poor person offer us?。
They're just gonna drain our resources,。
drain our time, there is no benefit。
when we pay special attention to them.。
Now, listen, church, this might be the way the world works,。
but it is ungodly and incompatible with our faith。
as Christians for us to act this way.。
It's evil because it goes against God's heart.。
And as we look through scripture,。
God's heart has always been to side himself。
with the poor and the needy.。
Think about the way Jesus entered into this world.。
He didn't come in might, in pomp, in splendor.。
He could have, but instead he came humbly, meek,。
with nothing, nothing that we look upon。
that we could desire, physically speaking.。
He chose to identify with the poor。
as he came into this world.。
2 Corinthians 2:9 tells us that though Jesus was rich,。
yet for your sake, he became poor.。
And so how God calls us as a people of faith。
to work as opposites of how the world works.。
He tells us that it is the poor。
that we should pay attention to.。
It is the poor that we should open our hands wide to,。
Deuteronomy 15, 11.。
It is the poor that we should be inviting。
to our dinners and our banquets.。
That's in the book of Luke.。
It is the poor that the weak,。
that we must work hard to help.。
Or the poor and the weak that we must work hard to help,。
Acts 20.。
It is the poor that we are called to sell everything。
and give it to them, Matthew 19.。
And this beautifully is summarized。
in what James calls in his letter, the royal law.。
It is the royal law because he got this。
from his brother, Jesus himself, who is the king of kings.。
It's what Jesus called as part of the greatest commandment.。
You are to love your neighbor as yourself.。
And our neighbor's church are the needy,。
the widows, the orphans, the poor.。
A genuine faith in Jesus will never show favoritism。
to the rich in expense of the poor.。
A genuine faith in Jesus will always take action。
and be the hands and feet that he has called us to be.。
And by the way, favoritism and discrimination。
isn't just about rich and poor.。
Any form of discrimination and favoritism。
that dishonors people is a dishonor and an insult to God。
because we have been made in his image.。
But James is using the rich and the poor here as an example.。
And to really drive this point home,。
he goes on to deliver one of the hardest hitting,。
maybe one of the most controversial and challenging passages。
in the whole of scripture.。
He tells us this.。
What good is it, my brothers and sisters,。
if someone claims to have faith but has no deeds?。
Can such faith save them?。
Suppose a brother or sister is without clothes。
and daily food.。
If one of you says to them,。
"Go in peace, keep warm and well fed,"。
but does nothing about their physical needs,。
what good is it?。
In the same way, faith by itself,。
if it's not accompanied by action, is dead.。
Now I say this is controversial。
because it seems to contradict what we love about our faith.。
Our faith tells us that Jesus loves us no matter what。
and that there's nothing more that we can do。
to make him love us.。
We say that salvation is a free gift, right?。
It's salvation, grace and forgiveness.。
It's a free gift of God.。
There is nothing we can do to earn that kind of love。
that God has for us.。
And I would say yes and amen to these statements.。
But it seems as though right now,。
James is saying that there are certain things,。
actually, you do have to do for our faith.。
That faith alone is not enough.。
And I would say the answer to that question is also yes.。
Because remember the point we're trying to answer,。
with the point we made at the beginning,。
the point Philip pointed us towards last week.。
We are trying to determine whether our faith is real.。
We are trying to figure out what this pure religion is.。
And pure religion, real faith has to be backed up by action.。
Now don't get me wrong, okay?。
I'm not saying that your actions are going to save you.。
That's not the point, that's bad theology.。
This isn't what James is trying to say either.。
But what we're trying to say。
is that those who truly follow Jesus。
will always be able to show you in some way。
that the faith is real.。
Genuine faith has real deeds behind it.。
Right, this is how, when I was doing some research,。
this is how one of the commentaries put it.。
James is not arguing that works must be added to faith.。
His point, rather, is that genuine biblical faith。
will inevitably be characterized by works.。
These are hard-hitting questions,。
but we need to get to the bottom of it。
because our entire relationship with Jesus is on the line.。
James asks us, what good is it, my brothers,。
if someone claims to have faith but has no deeds?。
Can such faith save them?。
Let's answer these questions.。
Notice first that James says claims.。
Now look, just because we claim something,。
it doesn't always mean it's true.。
People make all sorts of wild claims,。
but if we believed everything that everyone said,。
we would be fools.。
I could tell you that LeBron James and I,。
we have the same basketball skills, okay?。
What he can do on the court, I can do too.。
I can do a slam dunk and shoot threes.。
I can do all that kind of stuff, right?。
You would rightly say, okay, prove it, right?。
There's a court right down there next to the MTR station.。
Bring a basketball, show me your skills.。
And it's the same thing when it comes to our faith.。
If someone claims to have a faith in Jesus,。
they should be able to show you evidence of their faith.。
Otherwise, how will we know。
that what they're saying is true?。
We can't unless we see their faith in action.。
And the second part of that question is even a bit scarier.。
Like I said, these things have eternal consequences.。
One of the main motivations that people have。
in the journey of faith and becoming a Christian。
is because they want some sort of assurance of salvation.。
They want to know that after they die,。
they're not gonna end up in some horrible place called hell,。
but rather live out all of eternity in heaven。
where there's joy and bliss。
and all the nice, wonderful things you can think of.。
Now, going to heaven, being in the kingdom of God。
for all eternity after we die,。
salvation, eternal life is a promise。
and a reward from Jesus.。
But only for those who have a real and genuine faith。
that demonstrates real acts of service and love。
to those around us.。
So the answer to the question is no.。
A faith that does not live itself out with deeds。
is not the kind of faith that leads to salvation.。
James makes it even clearer for us.。
He gives another scenario for us to imagine.。
He says, suppose a brother or sister。
is without clothes or daily food.。
If one of you says to them, go in peace,。
keep warm and well-fed,。
but does nothing about their physical needs,。
what good is it?。
It's not a complicated question.。
The answer is simple.。
The Cantonese translation for this type of situation。
is [speaks in foreign language]。
It's kind of like an insult we use in Cantonese.。
If you see someone in need but you don't help them,。
it's like a pitiful, shameful thing to do.。
So what good is it, asks James.。
The answer is it's no good.。
Faith that is not accompanied by action。
is a dead kind of faith.。
It's no good just to give people your words and well wishes。
when the needs that they have are right in front of you.。
It's interesting because this kind of behavior。
sort of makes sense.。
If you follow on from what James was talking about before,。
well, if we're only showing favoritism to the rich。
and the powerful and the wealthy,。
well, they don't really need anything,。
and so there's nothing really we can do for them,。
and so when the needs of the poor are presented to us,。
we too are inclined to do nothing。
'cause it doesn't benefit us.。
There's nothing in it for us.。
But at the same time, of course, now, we're not monsters,。
and so let's give them a prayer.。
We don't wanna totally ignore them.。
Let's scratch that itch on our conscience。
and give them our well wishes and send them on their way.。
At least we did something, right?。
I've been asking myself, and I ask you, church,。
is that what Jesus would do?。
Does that reflect God's heart for his children?。
And in preparing the message series in James。
and in working with our team,。
I went through and I'm currently going through。
a lot of wrestling when it comes to this message。
because if I'm honest, quite often,。
when it comes to a situation like this,。
I feel like my reaction doesn't always reflect。
the faith that I claim.。
When there's physical needs in front of me。
that are to be met, sometimes I panic, I shrink back,。
I don't want to do anything about it.。
And I make excuses.。
Oh, well, you know, if I help them now,。
I'm gonna be stuck helping them forever.。
I don't have the time and the resources for that.。
Or you say, is it really gonna help that much。
if I just do this right now?。
It doesn't really help them in the long run,。
so maybe it's better for me not to get involved.。
Or maybe, you know, like you say,。
I've already prayed for them, right?。
God can do immeasurably more than I can do,。
so I've already prayed for them.。
I'll leave it in God's powerful hands。
and he'll take care of it.。
And then I start to feel guilty and ashamed。
because I knew I was supposed to do。
and I didn't do anything about it。
and it all gets super overwhelming。
and anxiety starts to set in and all this kind of stuff.。
Maybe you can relate to this too.。
And I'm working on it, okay?。
And this is how I try to resolve it。
and figure it out.。
And I'm just being honest and real with you here.。
I don't have the answer to really,。
haven't got it all figured out yet,。
but this is what I feel like God is leading me to。
in situations like this.。
So like I said, as people who possess faith in Jesus,。
if we ever come across a situation。
where we can meet an obvious physical need,。
like if we're taking the words of James literally here,。
something immediate that we, tangible that we can do,。
then we have to respond.。
We must respond.。
So for example, one thing that I personally try to practice。
as much as possible, when I see someone on the street。
that's homeless or sleeping rough,。
someone asking for money, I will stop and ask,。
can I get you something to eat?。
Are you hungry?。
And if the answer is yes,。
okay, then I go and get them something to eat, right?。
Go and get a fine hot from down the road,。
go to 7-Eleven, get some snacks, whatever, okay?。
If I see an elderly lady, often it is a lady, right,。
pushing those heavy carts down the street,。
I will stop her and say, hey, where are you going?。
Down to the collection point,。
let me push it the rest of the way.。
You take a rest and I'll push it for you, okay?。
Take a break, it's hot, it's sweaty,。
I can do this much easier, right?。
Now, 10, 15 minutes out of my day,。
but that should be okay, right?。
It's always the right time to do the right thing.。
At the same time, I've also had to learn。
to let go of the idea that I have to solve。
all their problems.。
I don't think that's the point either.。
Also, that's impossible, right?。
I'm just a man, right?。
I'm nobody, I'm just a man, I'm not the savior.。
Jesus is the savior and ultimately, of course,。
we want to point people towards them,。
but I don't want to do nothing.。
I'm not content with just to leave them。
with my thoughts and my prayers.。
In that moment, in that space,。
I've done as much as I could.。
I've tried my best to show them Jesus' love,。
I've responded in obedience with some sort of action,。
and I try to be at peace with that.。
And I think this is what Jesus is expecting。
of his followers.。
He knows we can't do everything.。
He is the savior and his call ultimately。
is for us to bring people to him。
and he is indeed able to do all,。
more than we ask or imagine.。
But he's also looking for people。
who are willing to take action.。
And if you want to be very clear about this,。
Matthew 25 lays it down so clearly.。
He says this, "For when I was hungry,。
you gave me something to eat.。
I was thirsty, you gave me something to drink.。
I was a stranger and you invited me in.。
I needed clothes and you clothed me.。
I was sick and you looked after me.。
I was in prison and you came to visit me."。
Jesus tells us that whenever we care。
for the least of our brothers and sisters。
in these sort of situations,。
we are doing it for him.。
These are the people who get to enjoy。
the inheritance and the kingdom of eternal life.。
But he also gives us a sobering warning。
for those who ignore these needs.。
When he was hungry and we gave him nothing to eat,。
we were thirsty and we gave him nothing to drink,。
he was a stranger and we don't invite them in,。
they needed clothes and you did not clothe me.。
I was sick and in prison and you did not look after me.。
Jesus tells us that those who fail to respond。
in love and compassion but yet claim to know him。
are not just ignoring people, they're ignoring him.。
Whatever you did not do for one of the least of these,。
you did not do for me and the consequences。
are eternal fire and punishment.。
Now, let's remember the main point。
of what Jesus is trying to say.。
How do we know that our faith is genuine?。
A faith that leads to salvation,。
a faith that matches up with what we profess。
with our mouth.。
But because both these groups of people。
claim to know Jesus but only one is accepted。
and welcomed into his kingdom.。
It's not just believing in Jesus that counts as faith.。
Right, James goes on to say, right,。
you believe that there is one God, good.。
Even the demons believe that and shudder.。
Just let that sink in for a moment, church.。
I mean, it is a brutally honest reflection。
that we're looking at today, I get it, okay?。
But if a faith is just words, James is telling us。
that your faith is no different from the faith。
that demons have.。
And we see this all the time in scripture。
as Jesus is casting out demons, right,。
the demons are declaring, yes, this is the savior,。
this is the Messiah.。
Jesus has to actually say, don't tell anyone about this,。
okay, because they even know who he is.。
Now, wouldn't it be a shame if a group of Christians。
that profess faith in Jesus to have the same kind of faith。
that demons have?。
Demons that are actively trying to do everything they can。
to distract people from the Lord?。
Demons who are losers, who have already lost the battle?。
We don't wanna be on that side, right, church?。
This is a call to embrace genuine faith,。
a faith of active, working obedience to Jesus.。
And yes, part of this is our concern。
for the poor and the needy,。
but it applies to every single part。
of how we live our lives.。
It's a life that's gonna take action and risk and sacrifice.。
And for example, James finishes。
with two contrasting characters, Abraham and Rahab,。
to let us know what God is expecting。
for those who follow him.。
Let's look at Abraham first.。
James writes, "Was not our father Abraham。
"considered righteous for what he did。
"when he offered his son Isaac on the altar?。
"You see that his faith and his actions。
"were working together, and his faith was made complete。
"by what he did.。
"And the scripture was fulfilled that says,。
"Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him。
"as righteousness, and he was called God's friend.。
"You see that a person is considered righteous。
"by what they do and not by faith alone."。
If you recall the story of Abraham, right,。
what he called to do was absolutely wild.。
It was insane, right?。
Imagine you having to wait till you're 100 years old,。
right, before finally God gives you the thing。
that you've been hoping for,。
a son that's gonna finally, your true son,。
that finally is gonna pass down your bloodline,。
that through this son you're gonna have generations。
and generations, as many as stars in the sky,。
only for then God to say, here he is, give him back to me.。
Sacrifice him on the altar.。
Now what would you do?。
Now honestly, for me, I don't know.。
But Abraham had a faith that even if God asked him。
to do something that made no sense to him whatsoever,。
he would respond in obedience and do it anyway.。
I was trying to put myself in Abraham's shoes。
as I was preparing this, right?。
I have sons, two boys, right,。
and as ungentle as my parenting is sometimes, okay,。
I can't imagine the fear, the guilt,。
the gut-wrenching torture it must have been。
to take Isaac, bind him up, put him on the altar,。
to raise the knife, it was only at the final second。
before he plunged that knife into his son's heart。
that God said, stop, do not harm the child.。
Abraham put action behind his faith.。
And Rahab is the same.。
She translates her faith into action,。
even though it was super risky for her.。
She had no idea, if you know the story,。
if the spies would honor their word.。
But what she had heard about was this God。
that was able to part the Red Sea,。
that people were able to walk across dry land。
to be saved from slavery,。
that these people had a God behind them。
that was destroying all their enemies.。
She had only heard about these stories。
and she decided, I'm gonna put my faith in a God like that,。
not in these pagan gods that my family。
and my people have been worshiping,。
I'm gonna put my faith in this most high,。
living, powerful God.。
And she puts her faith in God and she hides the spies。
and she and her family are saved。
because she put her faith into action.。
Now on the surface,。
these two people couldn't be more different.。
We have a male and a female.。
We have the founding father of the Judeo-Christian faith。
and a Canaanite prostitute.。
And James does this on purpose.。
He does this because he's saying,。
it doesn't matter who you are,。
but this are the people that God is looking for,。
those who have an obedient, action-filled faith,。
faith expressing itself through love of God.。
So how about us?。
Are we willing to take risks for Jesus?。
Are we willing to put our faith into action?。
Are we willing to face danger。
to demonstrate our faith in Him?。
What has God been calling you to respond in obedience to?。
What has God been calling you into action?。
Translating belief into action,。
even when it seems impossible or downright dangerous,。
that is the faith that matters.。
Faith without deeds is dead.。
So having heard all of this,。
let me ask you one more time today.。
Is your faith genuine?。
Because let me tell you,。
if you're banking on the fact。
that you went to a rally one time or at youth camp,。
you said a little prayer,。
and maybe even you were baptized,。
and since then, your life hasn't changed,。
you haven't done anything to put your faith in Jesus,。
your actions haven't shown that you live a life。
that is obedient to Christ,。
your heart does not break for the things。
that break His heart,。
you're not engaged in looking after the poor。
and the marginalized,。
I'm sorry to tell you that's a dead kind of faith, church.。
But if we serve a risen and living God,。
a God that has come to give us life,。
Jesus loves you too much。
to let you keep going down that road.。
He loves you so much that He gave His life for you.。
Think about that for a moment.。
How did Jesus show His love for us?。
Not just by telling us with His words,。
as comforting and as beautiful as they are,。
but they're only comforting and beautiful。
because He put action behind His words.。
Right, Jesus stepped out of His throne in heaven,。
He lived among us, He healed us,。
He fed us, He served us,。
He washed our feet, He embraced us,。
He invites us, He spoke up for us,。
and ultimately He went to the cross to die for you,。
to show you His love.。
He put His love into action.。
And He loves you so much。
that He perfectly lived on this earth。
to tell us what an active faith looks like.。
He knows you too well to be content。
just to watch you waste your life。
by not putting your faith into action.。
And when Jesus comes back,。
He's looking for those who are truly faithful.。
Is this what He's going to find。
when He comes back for this church?。
Is this what He's gonna find when He looks at your life?。
So I'm gonna ask you to close your eyes for a moment, church,。
and just think about those things for a minute.。
I know it's been hard, and you know,。
we've been wrestling a lot with the book of James。
as we prepared this.。
And in this beautiful gathering of God's children。
who make up this community,。
and as God has called us into the uncharted,。
He's calling us into action.。
[congregation murmuring]。
And like I said, all this is rooted.。
This is not a guilt trip.。
This is not a bashing over your head.。
At least I hope not.。
But this is a reminder of the love that God had for you.。
This is a reminder of the potential that lives in you.。
That God, the plans that God in mind when He created you,。
when He knitted you together in your mother's womb,。
that He had a plan and a purpose for you to live out.。
And for sure, that's one that includes obedience to Him,。
of doing things in the sake of His name。
that you never thought you'd able to experience or see.。
But because you allowed God's love。
and power to work through you,。
you bring honor and praise to Him,。
and life to others by doing that.。
And like I said just now, Jesus loves us too much。
to let us just be content with this comfy,。
cozy Christianity that is so easy to embrace.。
(soft piano music)。
But rather, it's this life-changing,。
radical obedience to God。
that will bring salvation to you and those around us,。
that declares God's kingdom on earth as it is in heaven.。
And so, Jesus, we pray.。
If I could be so bold on praying。
on behalf of my brothers and sisters,。
that we would not be content just to have a faith。
that's based upon lip service,。
that's based upon a few songs。
that we might sing every now and then,。
but it's a life of obedience.。
It's a life that's constantly looking out for ways。
that we can show your love to others,。
no matter who they are,。
knowing as we saw in the video earlier,。
that your grace is sufficient for us,。
that even if it's the most challenging, mind-boggling,。
not-make-sense thing to this world。
that you've called us to do,。
that we will have the faith to put that into action。
and do it anyway, knowing you'll meet us where we are,。
that you'll never leave us abandoned,。
that you'll never leave us or forsake us,。
that we have a helper in the Holy Spirit.。
(gentle music)。
And we have the most high God。
who fights every battle on our behalf.。
So Jesus, make this our hearts, our lives.。
May we be your good and faithful servants,。
sons and daughters, as we live out our life in this world,。
truly worshiping you with everything we have.。
