Good morning to all of you.。
- Good morning. - Good morning.。
And for those who are online joining us live,。
good morning to you, or if you are in a different time zone.。
I have this conviction that God has a word for you as well today.。
Well, for some of us here in the audience,。
some of you are aware that I work in the medical sector.。
Exactly 30 years ago, I flew off to the unknown land。
by the name of St. Louis, Missouri.。
That was in the Midwest of US.。
And that was 30 years ago I started my overseas fellowship training.。
I learned from a leading expert who contributed tremendously in our field.。
And he attempted to introduce a lot of new procedures。
that was really at the forefront of imagination at the time.。
And he overcame many difficult hurdles。
and many radicals along the way.。
Some of his attempts failed, but others flourished。
and changed the surgical paradigm altogether.。
He always reminded us that not all new things are good,。
but all good things must be new at one time.。
Well, in a sense, my mentor journeyed through。
the many uncharted waters in his times.。
Well, he championed the advance of what is now commonplace,。
keyhole surgery.。
He contributed to bringing a new beginning in surgical practice.。
And I'm glad that I was along that wave.。
In fact, I find this word beginning amazing.。
In Greek, it reads "akhe," which carries the meaning of origin,。
the beginning event, and early days.。
I'm particularly impressed when I read how different gospels。
begin their beginnings.。
So through the beginning of the story of Jesus Christ。
in the gospel of John, Luke, and Mark,。
I hope to explore the very subject,。
passing on, closure, and new beginnings.。
John 1 says, "In the beginning was the Word,。
and the Word was with God.。
And the Word was God.。
He was with God in the beginning."。
It is groundbreaking to have a new interpretation。
of the very word "logos," which is translated as "word" here,。
and to understand that Jesus is the living Word.。
John also asserts that Jesus, the living Word,。
is with God from the very beginning.。
And you'll appreciate how he refers to Genesis。
when he wrote the gospel.。
"In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth."。
That's the very first verse of the entire Bible.。
We can read the creation account in Genesis,。
a beginning as a celebration of God's goodness。
and faithfulness, and he's indeed declared that it is good.。
It is significant that we recognize that all beginnings。
are very much anchored in the first beginning in creation,。
ordained by God.。
We celebrate new beginnings exactly because。
God has been good, and he has been faithful。
from the very beginning.。
Next, we shall look at the gospel of Luke.。
Many have undertaken to draw an account of the things。
that have been fulfilled amongst us,。
just as they were handed down to us。
by those who were from the first,。
were witnesses and servants of the Word.。
From the first, the beginning.。
Now here, the word "handed down" means to pass on.。
It's a solemn act of passing on something really important.。
And you know, in Asian context, oral tradition。
is a very important means of transmitting the message.。
So the early Christian message was indeed passed on。
to others through this oral tradition.。
The very gospels that we know today。
were in fact written much later,。
probably at the year 70 AD,。
after Jerusalem has been destroyed by the Roman Empire,。
and most Jewish Christians were driven out of the city.。
But the gospels were written subsequently。
based on the original accounts,。
which were diligently preserved.。
So passing on the truth is a noble task.。
The same significance of passing on。
was also emphasized by the Apostle Paul。
when he wrote to the church in Corinth,。
"For what I received, I passed on to you。
as of first importance,。
that Christ died for our sins。
according to the scriptures."。
The gospel permeated the entire Greek Roman world。
exactly by believers who pass on the truth。
diligently and faithfully.。
Then the next question for all of us here is,。
what do we pass on as modern day believers?。
My wife Vivian and I plan carefully。
what we want to pass on to our adult children。
while in years down the road.。
So we drew up a will which was duly signed by witnesses。
that our material estate will be shared equally。
between the two of them.。
Well, my son is here actually.。
(audience laughing)。
So he may want to know what material estate I actually have.。
(audience laughing)。
Well, the thing is, while I also wonder。
whether I have also passed on。
a rich spiritual inheritance to each of them.。
I'm glad that when my daughter got married。
and entered into marital life,。
we passed on to her our love for each other。
as husband and wife.。
And indeed, besides loving God,。
loving our spouse is the most single important calling。
that we are to respond to as a married person.。
And as for my son, who is not yet married,。
I hope I can pass on to him。
my love for the family,。
my commitment to work, independence,。
and the ability to maintain hope。
in the midst of life's challenges.。
I do recognize that my mom passed on to me。
a lot of pessimism and worries for tomorrow.。
So it takes conscious effort to connect with Jesus。
to renew my mind and my perspective。
so that I can bring joy into my being。
and that I can pass on joy to people around me.。
Now, there are practical ways。
that we can pass on our love for people,。
our values, and our hopes, and our dreams.。
I just came across three consecutive couples。
here in the Vine who are in the process。
of adopting children into their own household.。
What a tremendous blessing that shall be。
mutually for each other as parents。
and as adopted children.。
They are passing on amazing love。
modeled from our heavenly Father。
who calls each and every one of us into a family.。
And I also admire my college mate。
who quit his headmaster job to lead an organization。
that is responsible to write up。
all the religious studies curriculum。
here in the public schools in Hong Kong,。
both the primary and the secondaries.。
So he's passing on biblical values。
to our very next generation.。
And he bridged many local churches,。
including the Yun Long Vine Church,。
to participate in the program.。
Many congregants over there volunteer。
as mentors in these schools.。
And along the way, with diligence and wisdom。
and respect to the Hong Kong education system,。
they brought many school students to Christ.。
What do you want to pass on to people around you?。
While it is still early part of the year,。
how would you like to begin this year?。
And I shall continue today's sharing。
on beginning and end.。
In a nutshell,。
every beginning is the end of another beginning.。
And every beginning should be aiming。
towards a predetermined end.。
Well, we may draw our reference from Hebrews,。
where we are asked to fix our eyes on Jesus,。
the pioneer and perfecter of faith.。
The root word of pioneer in Greek。
is in fact that of akhi,。
our key word today, beginnings.。
Whereas perfecter is rooted in the Greek word telos,。
the end.。
So Jesus indeed see us through the beginning.。
To the end.。
Let us throw off everything that hinders。
and the sin that so easily entangles.。
And let us run with perseverance。
the very race marked out for us,。
fixing our eye on Jesus,。
the pioneer and perfecter of our faith.。
We have been talking about passing on,。
but paradoxically,。
sometimes new beginnings is about closure of the past.。
Let's refer to the gospel of Mark。
to look at this interesting interaction。
between endings and beginnings.。
The beginning of the good news about Jesus,。
the Messiah, the son of God.。
As Jesus walked beside the sea of Galilee,。
he saw Simon and his brother Andrew。
casting a net into the lake,。
for they were fishermen.。
Come, follow me,。
and I will make you out to fish for people.。
At once, they left their nest and followed him.。
This is a call for a new beginning,。
but it actually begins with the closure。
of a prior chapter for Peter and the first disciples.。
The very first act of Jesus' ministry in Mark's gospel。
is not a spectacular miracle or a great sermon.。
It begins as a simple call。
to for ordinary people to follow him.。
A call for ordinary people like us to follow him.。
The sea of Galilee is a beautiful lake.。
In the first century,。
the staple of food in the Greek Roman world。
is fish, not meat per se.。
The fishing industry in the sea of Galilee。
is so prosperous that the cash was not only consumed。
by the local market,。
but also as far as like Antioch in Syria。
or the Alessandra in Egypt.。
So the fishermen of Galilee competed。
in the larger Mediterranean market,。
demonstrating their skill。
and probably their mastery of Greek,。
the common language of commerce and culture in those days.。
The fishermen Jesus called。
were not necessarily just ordinary,。
dispensable day labourers.。
To survive in the market,。
they need to be savvy。
and are probably successful small businessmen.。
Are the background of this first generation disciples。
somewhat like many of us here?。
We work hard in our society。
with our skills in our respective professions.。
Others are working in a booming or challenging business.。
Many of us are bilingual。
and some of us are even engaged in international trade.。
Is Jesus also calling some of us。
or even all of us who happen to be here in this city,。
but yet by his divine purpose?。
But to start with,。
there needs to be some closure to prior chapters.。
The cross is laid on every Christian.。
The very first Christ suffering in following him,。
which every believer needs to go through,。
need to experience,。
is a call to abandon the attachments of this world.。
As we embark on following him,。
we surrender ourselves to Christ。
in union with his death.。
We give over our lives.。
Thus it begins.。
The cross meets us at the beginning of our journey with him.。
Bonhoeffer wrote in this famous book,。
"The Cause of Discipleship,"。
very heavy words.。
When Christ calls a man,。
he bids him come and die.。
Following Jesus is a costly and serious matter.。
Our beginning starts with letting go of the past.。
Or the old.。
It's a kind of death and a picking up of our cross.。
I shared a very similar challenge almost 40 years ago,。
but with a very dissimilar choice from that of the disciples.。
At the time I was about to enter into medical schools.。
And that particular summer before the school actually starts,。
the theme of the church camp was。
none other than。
"Surrender yourself to serve."。
Wow.。
I hesitate to embrace that call.。
And I would not like to end my chapter and my career,。
which has not even started.。
I wrestled,。
but I made a subtle decision.。
Maybe this call is not for me.。
And if anything,。
that should be responded to some years down the road.。
Very sadly,。
that deferral to some years down the road to avail myself。
turned out to become decades.。
I detoured.。
I backslided.。
I wondered what my path could have been。
if I had made a different response to the call at the time.。
One never really knows.。
But as I've just shared,。
that chapter has closed,。
be it a bad or a good choice.。
Fast forward,。
I've been attending this church for the past 16 years,。
and I've served as an elder at the Divine Church for the past nine years.。
I still remember the first time that on a hot summer evening,。
without air conditioning,。
in this auditorium,。
which was not done with its renovation,。
that we attended the very first worship service.。
The auditorium was as hot as a hot furnace,。
but our enthusiasm drove us to complete the renovation.。
I also remember in the early days,。
we were very short of funds.。
We didn't even have enough cash flow。
to pay our employees' monthly salaries.。
So we knelt,。
we confessed our sins,。
and we prayed for the Lord's favour.。
It was through the faithfulness of this community,。
the congregation,。
that sometime down the road,。
we were able to pay off all the debts。
and we remained financially stable.。
And we have also witnessed incredible growth。
beyond our imagination,。
with more than 2,400 people。
attending four Sunday services for a season.。
Yet, we went through the challenges。
of the social movements and the COVID restrictions.。
After COVID, the attendance of the Divine Church at Wan Chai。
dropped to an average of 1,500.。
So we were pondering,。
where shall we go?。
Yet, it was in this difficult moment。
our very first church plant at Yuen Long was birthed.。
Praise God!。
So on that personal level,。
serving as an elder and chairman of the board。
through this season。
has been a life-changing experience for me.。
And on behalf of the past eldership board,。
including those who have stepped down。
after serving many years in faithful services,。
and those who are still continuing to serve。
in the current board,。
I want to thank you。
because you allow us to serve。
in areas of spiritual guidance,。
organisational governance,。
financial prudence,。
and corporate leadership.。
For myself, having to step down。
according to the rule of congregation。
could be a blessing in disguise.。
I did receive the word,。
"New wine in new wine skin."。
For anything new to happen,。
there has to be an end to the prior chapter.。
How I may serve in the next season。
is something that God will continue to reveal.。
God willing,。
I do hope that there will be future opportunities。
that I may stand on this pulpit。
to share God's word with all of you.。
Paul proudly say at the end of a season of serving,。
"I have fought the good fight.。
I have finished the race.。
I have kept the faith."。
However, sometimes we don't wrap up our past properly.。
How do we know that we didn't end well?。
Well, that's when we can't stop thinking about the past。
and we keep on chewing the hurtful experience.。
We felt angry and frustrated。
because of the sadness or pain in our life。
and we struggled to encounter God。
in those difficult moments.。
And we declined to enter into new commitments。
in life, in relationships, or in ministries.。
Just now one of the congregation members shared with me,。
"Well, maybe for this season,。
there are some amongst us who are in depression,。
in mental illnesses, or in emotional turmoil.。
You struggle and you want it to come to a closure.。
Yet God's promises is he will bring it to an end."。
But for myself, somewhere last year,。
when I no longer received the honorary academic title。
conferred to me by the university all over the years,。
I was really upset.。
I thought, well, I had made very significant contributions.。
I thought I had mentored many and inspired others.。
The list kept on going.。
But then I come to my senses.。
I've left the academic field for a good number of years.。
A closure is a closure.。
I can choose to embrace my new role as peers to my colleagues,。
including those who are younger than myself。
but who may be brighter or even more skillful.。
I can choose to fully commit myself to patient care on personal levels.。
And I can explore new ventures in life.。
It will be helpful for us, therefore,。
to consider the features of emotionally healthy endings and new beginnings.。
Healthy endings and new beginnings.。
That we are fully aware that the transition,。
waiting for ending and the confusion in between,。
could be much longer than we imagine.。
And we have to realise that ending and the waiting。
are closely tied to a personal maturity in Christ.。
And we are to firmly believe that endings and waiting。
are the gateway to new beginnings.。
If we accept these losses, whether it's work-related,。
a relationship that comes to an end,。
or even a failed ministry, a sickness,。
God will work profoundly in and through us。
in the way that the Apostle Paul describes.。
So then, death is at work in us,。
but life is at work in you.。
Even Jesus says, "Very truly I tell you,。
"a canal of wheat which falls to the ground and dies,。
"it remains only a single seed.。
"But if it dies, it produces many seeds.。
"If that seed dies, it produces many seeds."。
I wonder whether you understand how cancer progression means.。
In short, cancer cells do not complete。
their original life cycle at the appropriate time,。
okay, according to normal life design.。
But instead, they become vicious cells that drag on。
and incorporate their endangered life.。
When I was diagnosed with leukaemia some years ago,。
the idea of the target treatment that I received。
was to let the medicine create an environment。
for these cells to die,。
so that healthy cells can reappear in the future.。
I literally died when I received the treatment.。
I thought I was dying.。
Well, but here I am.。
I'm reasonably well, strong, and healthy.。
Maybe we should all ask ourselves,。
if I accept this ending of my current life situation,。
what new things might be standing in the background,。
waiting to come into my personal life?。
When we face the end of a chapter in our lives,。
God's will is not just there to change。
our external environment.。
He's doing something greater,。
initiating a deeper transformation within us。
that goes beyond our imagination.。
I love this quote from Parker Palmer.。
"On the spiritual journey, each time a door closes,。
the rest of the world opens up,。
and all we need to do is to stop pounding on the door。
that has just closed.。
Turn around."。
I say, "Turn around."。
Yeah, because that's where you see the door opens.。
The closed door is behind us,。
but we welcome the largeness of life。
that now lies open to our souls.。
So don't pound on the closed door.。
Embrace the new.。
How should we embark on a new journey?。
Stephen Covey teaches us in his best-selling book,。
"The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People."。
One of the habits is paradoxically,。
begin with the end in mind.。
While he might have pause and encouragement in mind。
when he writes his book,。
I do not consider myself yet to have taken hold of it.。
But one thing I do,。
forgetting what is behind。
and straining towards what is ahead.。
I press on towards the goal.。
In this chapter, Stephen challenges us to imagine。
that we are attending our own funeral.。
So sad.。
(audience laughs)。
But then we shall hear from our family,。
our friends, our colleagues,。
and our fellow congregants,。
how they remember us.。
This is indeed a challenge.。
More often, we like to ask questions,。
well, what we want to accomplish by the end of 2025.。
How would I like my family to be in three years' time?。
Or what I expect my ministry to be doing in five years?。
Maybe slightly longer down the road,。
when I retire, what kind of legacy will I leave behind?。
We can and we should set short-term goals。
on the way to long-term life goals.。
But the author reminds us to focus on the ultimate goals。
that really matter,。
lest we lean our leather against the wrong wall.。
I try to practice this principle in my own life,。
for the past decade or so,。
every five years, we organize a gathering of family,。
of friends, co-workers, and church members。
to celebrate our birthdays or wedding anniversaries.。
So some seven or eight years ago,。
we celebrated our 21st wedding anniversary.。
But we also took a bold step。
to break the news to our guests。
that I was suffering from leukemia.。
And I was about to start my treatment.。
I was charting into the unknown waters.。
So I also kind of took it as a farewell,。
in case the treatment didn't go well.。
Fast forward in our recent 60th birthday party,。
we asked our guests to share something。
that they would like to say about us,。
both as an encouragement。
and as a measure of whether we have passed on something。
worth remembering to them.。
If we think deeply about it,。
how I do, how I want these relatives and friends。
to evaluate my life.。
What kind of husband, wife, father, or mother。
do we want them to remember?。
What kind of friends,。
what kind of work partner are we for them?。
What qualities do I want them to see in me?。
What contributions, what achievements。
do I want them to remember?。
Or maybe the penultimate question should be,。
will I be called the good and faithful servant。
that I may be invited to Jesus' banquet。
to celebrate together?。
If I look closely at the people around me,。
what change do I want to make in their lives?。
So if my ultimate goal is to see the transformation。
in the lives of others,。
I should start with my personal choices,。
my priorities, and my life as a believer.。
When Jesus first called Peter,。
he already had an end in mind for Peter.。
It's a call to ministry.。
Jesus said, "Follow me, I will make you fishers of men."。
The Greek wording is, "I will make you fishers of men."。
The original Greek has a sense of make changes。
so that one becomes.。
It is a dual process, and it took three years for Peter.。
A call can indeed completely change our destiny.。
About 20 years ago, when I was still living in Singapore,。
I received a call from Hong Kong.。
That was the invitation for me。
to join one of the local universities.。
And we decided to take up that challenge。
for me professionally and for the family。
to start a new life again。
after a 10-year stay in Singapore.。
Well, it is a beginning, a new beginning for me。
where my goal, my end goal, is to leave a legacy。
or at least to make a difference.。
And that call changed the trajectory of my life.。
Got a wonderful plan.。
When we returned to Hong Kong。
and we were looking for a church,。
we stumbled into Divine Church.。
We were still meeting in Central at the time.。
Vivian and I had the wonderful privilege。
to serve in this church,。
especially in the Chinese ministry.。
That should be considered a surprising。
and almost unexpected call, right?。
How about Peter?。
What happened to him upon his saying yes。
to the first call by Jesus?。
Did he continue to keep his end in mind。
while riding the many ups and downs?。
After three years of working with Jesus,。
Peter, along with all the other disciples,。
entered into a new chapter。
where they will continue to spread the good news。
in Jesus' absence。
because Jesus will soon leave them.。
They are about to begin their own new era.。
Jesus promised, "When the Advocate comes,。
"home I will send to you from the Father,。
"the Spirit of Truth who goes out from the Father.。
"He will testify about me。
"and you will also testify。
"for you have been with me from the beginning."。
A long circle, and we are back to the beginning.。
Peter and first disciples had the privilege。
of being in fellowship with Jesus。
from the very beginning,。
and they had a unique calling.。
You might have been attending Divine。
for the past three years,。
or maybe just three months,。
or even three weeks,。
or you might have been with us from the beginning.。
Regardless, we are blessed to be part。
of a new season for this church.。
We will be part of a new beginning,。
which Andrew will speak to us more。
on the Vision Sunday just next week.。
God values us.。
May we spread the good news。
and keep in mind the end goal.。
Which is citywide life transformation。
in Wan Chai and Yun Long and beyond.。
Jesus' final instructions to his disciples。
at that time are the same instructions。
to us here today.。
You, you must bear witness。
because you have been with Jesus。
from the beginning.。
Our context may differ,。
but we are all in a new beginning。
that God has ordained.。
The New Testament ends beautifully.。
Revelation says,。
"I am the Alpha and the Omega,。
"the first and the last,。
"the beginning and the end."。
Achi and Telos,。
"the beginning and the end."。
I hope that as we celebrate a new season。
for our faith community,。
each of us would move towards our life goal.。
And my life goal is to give the best of myself。
to serve him in whatever years to come.。
May Divine Church continue to head towards。
what Jesus Christ has destined for us.。
Keep moving towards our goal。
so that the gospel and the kingdom of heaven。
can continue to be passed on.。
Shall we ask God to speak to us collectively。
and as individuals,。
that we hear our call distinctly。
and that we shall follow him boldly.。
Can I invite the worship team?。
I would also like to invite all of us to stand.。
I think there's a precious moment。
that we can commit our endings。
and our new beginnings to Jesus.。
So if in the sharing just now,。
you desire to have a closure to your past,。
whether it's a sickness,。
whether it's a relationship,。
whether it's a failure,。
whatever it is,。
ask God to help you close that chapter gracefully.。
If you want to respond to God,。
to head for a new beginning,。
say yes to Jesus.。
Come and invite Jesus to journey with you.。
And if you do want to pass on a blessing,。
including a personal salvation。
that had been bestowed upon you,。
ask God to help you pass it on.。
Shall we pray?。
Heavenly Father, we just want to thank you。
because as we fix our eyes onto you,。
our pioneer and perfecter of faith,。
the beginning and the end.。
And we thank you because you see us through.。
Help us to hear your call so clearly and distinctly.。
Help us to close our closure so gracefully.。
Help us to say yes to your call。
and start our new beginnings。
and help us to follow you。
and that we may be able to pass on。
whatever you have bestowed upon us,。
blessings and your salvation.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
