We just thank you for him.。
Would you guide us as a church?。
Would you lead us as a church, we pray.。
Amen.。
- Amen. - Amen.。
- Thank you, Justin.。
And yeah, so Marian and I normally sit in this section。
at the 9.15, so this is exciting。
to be part of the 11.15 service.。
And, or 11, it's 11 o'clock, isn't it?。
No, 11 o'clock service.。
And Michelle, I think she maybe slipped out,。
but what a gift to a church,。
to be able to pour yourself out in prayer for the church.。
And the Vine is known as a church of prayer.。
And this is, like I said, where we sit,。
but everywhere you sit,。
wherever other section you are in,。
whether you're at home right now, watching online,。
we know that the Lord is a living God, and he speaks.。
And he has a word for each one of us this morning.。
And that's my prayer, is that we would have the humility。
to hear that word, and then the courage to live it out.。
Because God wants us to go home blessed,。
and that's what Jesus said,。
"Blessed are those who not only hear the word,。
"but then do the word."。
And so we'll pray for that courage for one another.。
And keep praying for me as we go along.。
So I work now at the University of Hong Kong,。
and I'm helping lead up a program there。
called Faith and Global Engagement.。
And there's a number in the Vine。
who are also part of that program.。
Basically what the program does,。
is it tries to put our faith, the Christian faith,。
into dialogue with contemporary society.。
So what does it mean in contemporary society?。
So we do that a number of ways.。
We do that through research,。
we do that through classes, public lectures.。
But the way that I mainly engage in。
is through character leadership.。
So trying to raise up the next generation of leaders。
as leaders of character.。
So I've shared a few slides in the past when I've spoken,。
but we'll share a couple here.。
So this slide is just two weeks ago.。
We had our mentor training.。
So we have 100 mentors, 110 mentors in the program.。
These are some of them for the training,。
and you might see your picture in there as well,。
because some of the mentors come here from the Vine.。
Then if we go to the next picture,。
this is Lead for Life, this is the program.。
So there's about 550 students right now in the program.。
In the next month, we're gonna add。
about another 180 to the program.。
So pray for us.。
But it's exciting, because what it is,。
it's basically saying, how can we teach our students。
how to be with the character and the competence。
to build flourishing communities,。
or to nourish flourishing communities?。
So that's kind of the goal.。
The next slide shows that you cannot have。
character leadership without beach balls.。
Basically, that's the message of that slide.。
Basically, this is taken from our year-end celebration again.。
I thought about bringing some beach balls today,。
but then I thought, you know, you've had a hard day,。
a hard week at work.。
You don't wanna get hit by a beach ball on Sunday morning.。
So we can talk a little bit later。
about beach balls and character leadership.。
But the reason I wanted you to see those slides。
is because that's where I work.。
And the passage that we're going to look at this morning。
has challenged me in my work,。
and it's also encouraged me in my work.。
And that's my prayer for you,。
wherever you work this morning.。
A couple of months ago, when Allison asked。
if I would be a part of this series with Encounter,。
and he said, "The topic is on Daniel."。
Well, Daniel is my boss at work, the name of my boss.。
So I had to say yes as we came in.。
But it's a topic, and in the passage,。
you'll see about going out.。
I mean, last weekend with Branches of Hope,。
and Alex did a beautiful job of what it means。
to not just stay here in the box of our church,。
but that we go out.。
And that's really what the Vine is.。
Four years ago, when Marian and I joined this church,。
we were attracted to the river, that we go out,。
that we don't stay here in the church.。
We don't only express our faith in our church。
and in our small groups.。
There is a mathematician at Oxford, John Lennox,。
and he's a brilliant man.。
If you wanna YouTube him,。
he has just beautiful expositions of the faith.。
He's a mathematician, and he's written a book on Daniel。
called Against the Flow.。
And one of the things he talks about in Daniel。
is he says this, he says,。
"Daniel, from the time he was a teenager。
"and he was forcefully removed from his home。
"to a foreign land until the time he was post-80,。
"the whole of that life,。
"he managed to have his faith on the edge."。
But then he said this, "But too many of us,。
"we live in the boxes of our church,。
"we live in the boxes of our home,。
"and our faith is only at home or the church,。
"and it never gets out to where we spend most of our time."。
So that's the message this morning,。
is to challenge us to take it out.。
How does our faith and work relate together?。
And I know that's tough.。
I started my professional career with a company。
that's now called Accenture as a consultant,。
and living out your faith at work is tough.。
It's tough at the university,。
it's tough in whatever area God has called you.。
So where do you spend the majority of your time?。
Think about that.。
It might be at home, working.。
It might be working out of the home.。
It might be in a school.。
It might be your work right now is as a student.。
It might be that you're in a lab,。
it might be you're in a studio,。
but wherever it is, what would it mean。
to fully express your faith through that work?。
And that's what we're going to look at.。
Now, that's risky.。
We got Daniel in a lot of trouble.。
So the question is, do we want to read this passage or not?。
You want to read it?。
Okay, so we want to read it and we want to hear it,。
but do we want to do it?。
That's a yes too, right?。
[audience laughing]。
That's going to take courage.。
So let's look at it together.。
We're going to look at this passage,。
the whole of Daniel 6 together.。
And Daniel 6 divides beautifully into three parts.。
So I want you to imagine with me,。
this is like a Netflix docu-series, right?。
And we have three episodes coming together.。
It's kind of like the Simone Biles docu-series, right?。
But you don't have to wait until October。
to find the ending, right?。
It's here.。
And in this docu-series,。
you have kind of the courage of Simone.。
You've got a little bit of the office episodes mixed in,。
but you have the whole story of Daniel。
and what does it mean in his faith and his work, right?。
And with this, some of us kind of know Daniel。
from maybe the Daniel diet.。
You remember the Daniel diet?。
Yeah, okay, so maybe we heard about Daniel diet.。
It was a vegetarian diet, basically.。
Others know us from this chapter,。
Daniel and the lion's den, right?。
And clearly the diet worked well。
because in Daniel and the lion's den,。
he's about 80 years old, right?。
And he's going strong.。
He's served under two national leaders already。
and he's serving now under a third.。
So we're gonna read through this passage together.。
And as we do, what I ask is,。
really, we ask just one question.。
And that question is actually one we ask every week。
here at the Vine.。
What does the scripture over 2,500 years earlier。
have to say to us today?。
The context of it is Babylonia is the superpower。
of the world at that time.。
They've come down.。
They've basically desecrated and sacked Jerusalem.。
They've taken the teenagers of the elite families,。
the elite of the elite,。
because then they're gonna take them,。
they're gonna put them in a leadership training program。
in Babylonia.。
That's part of their enculturation.。
Daniel was one of those.。
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were his friends.。
They were sent there as teenagers.。
At this point where we're reading,。
Daniel is about 80 years old.。
So we can look at it together.。
You can see it on your screen.。
If you brought your Bible, you can open it up,。
follow along if you have your Bible on your phone。
and you wanna mark it with there.。
Sometimes I find that helpful as well.。
But let's look at this first episode.。
So Daniel 6, it pleased Darius the king。
to set over the kingdom 120 satraps.。
Satraps sounds quite exotic,。
sounds like kind of something from the Dune movie,。
but basically these are government officials, right?。
Administrators.。
And there was 120 of them over the whole kingdom.。
And over these, there was three high officials。
of whom Daniel was one,。
and to whom these satraps should give account。
so that the king might suffer no loss.。
Okay, so what basically he's saying here,。
he's given us the whole org chart, right?。
So we know where Daniel is in his position at work.。
Then this Daniel became distinguished。
among all the other high officials and satraps。
because, and you can mark this,。
an excellent spirit was in him.。
And the king planned to set him over the whole kingdom.。
So he had a great future.。
And then the high officials and the satraps。
sought to find a ground for complaint against Daniel。
with regard to the kingdom,。
but they could find no ground for complaint or any fault。
because he was faithful.。
No error or fault was found in him.。
And then these men said,。
"We shall not find any ground for a complaint。
"against this Daniel unless it's in connection。
"with the law of God."。
In other words, this is where the faith。
and work comes into play.。
And then these officials and satraps,。
high officials and satraps came by agreement to the king。
and they said to him, "O King Darius, live forever.。
"All of the high officials of the kingdom,。
"the prefects and the satraps, the counselors,。
"the governors, all are agreed that the king。
"should establish an ordinance and enforce an injunction。
"that whoever makes petition or prays to any God。
"or man for 30 days, except to you, O king,。
"shall be cast into the den of lions.。
"Now, O king, establish the law and sign the document。
"so that it cannot be changed according to the law。
"of the Medes and the Persians, which cannot be revoked.。
"And therefore, King Darius, sign the document。
"and the injunction."。
Okay, so we'll pause there for a little bit。
because what we see is the trap has been set, right?。
The trap has been set for Daniel.。
We see Daniel in the faith and work.。
And basically, what we're looking at is。
what is this section that we've just read?。
How does that, what does that teach us?。
What's it about?。
And we kind of already know what it's about。
in terms it's about our faith and our work.。
It's basically how our Sunday relates to our Monday.。
It's like what you're doing right now,。
what will you be doing at 11, 30 or 12 o'clock tomorrow?。
It's about what the monks would talk about,。
aura and labora, prayer and labor coming together。
in a fully integrated way.。
And I think most of us want that in our workplace.。
Question is, how do we do it?。
How do we do it?。
And so Daniel gives us a really nice model here.。
And it's a model like any model。
that you have to adapt to your area.。
But it's the model that we found in that verse。
that I called to our attention in verse three,。
because an excellent spirit was in him.。
An excellent spirit was in him.。
You know, we're talking about Alpha.。
I love Alpha.。
I think Pat is one of my heroes.。
She heads up Alpha here in Hong Kong.。
Every church I've been in, we've led Alpha.。
I am so excited about the new Faith and Work Alpha。
that's coming out.。
It's gonna be brilliant.。
But when people ask me,。
'cause I know I'm about faith and work.。
When people ask me, okay,。
how does you integrate your faith and your work?。
Basically, it's you do a good job, right?。
The evangelism will come,。
but the basic way is that you do an excellent job.。
That's why you were hired.。
I wasn't hired to evangelize.。
I was hired to do a good job.。
But then as we do a good job,。
as we show up and do the best we can,。
as we pray for the spirit of excellence,。
then we have a little credibility。
to talk and to share our story.。
So I think that's the first thing。
that Daniel kind of pulls out.。
And we can see that his distractors,。
his people who are working against him for whatever reason,。
they couldn't find any fault in his work。
because it was excellent work, right?。
Now I know I've lived in Hong Kong,。
Marian and I, since 2009.。
So I know preaching to a congregation in Hong Kong。
about doing excellent work is like, yeah,。
I've been told that since the beginning, right?。
And this is not just about doing,。
you know, crushing your KPIs or whatever that, okay?。
This is not about doing that work,。
only the excellent work.。
It is that, it is showing up.。
And this is one of the things we tell our students,。
show up, do the best you can do.。
But there's something more going on here, right?。
And the something more that's going on。
is he's called to a spirit of excellence.。
And this word excellence comes from the word,。
like when we see it later in 2 Peter,。
the word virtue, virtues build up our character, right?。
So you have the virtue of courage,。
you have the virtue of resilience,。
you have the virtue of kindness,。
and you can become those things.。
Your character you can change.。
Certain things you can't change,。
but your character can change.。
Now what's interesting is when you go back。
to the original, like the Greek,。
in terms of what is the word for virtue,。
it's the word arete.。
And the word arete means excellence.。
So what the writers are telling us is a couple of things.。
Yes, Daniel was doing an excellent job。
in terms of the work, but it was how he was doing it.。
Daniel is a leader of character.。
And that's my challenge for us this morning,。
is that when we leave this place,。
that we have this sense of what would it look like。
for you to be a leader of character in your place of work?。
And you might be thinking,。
well, Steve, I'm not really a leader in my work,。
or that's gonna be challenging for a lot of reasons,。
but at the university we define Lead for Life。
in the program, we define it as influencing towards a goal.。
Everyone's a leader,。
and you can all influence towards a goal.。
But what would it look like to do that。
through your character?。
But it goes more.。
It's not just excellent character,。
it's a spirit of excellence.。
And this is where we see again and again in this passage。
that it's the faith of Daniel.。
It's your faith.。
It's the spirit of God in you.。
And so as you pray and think about。
what would it look like for me,。
to be said of me that you had the spirit of excellence,。
for someone to say of you,。
you had the spirit of excellence.。
And there's a spiritual side,。
there's a calling to it, right?。
But one thing it means is that your people at work。
need to know you're a Christian,。
if you are a Christian, right?。
They need to know you're a believer.。
What we'll see in this passage。
is that everybody knows Daniel is a person of faith.。
Our faith is personal, but it's also public.。
And that's one part that Daniel shows us.。
So we have this model of excellence,。
a spirit of excellence.。
And what would that look like in your work?。
Is this making a little sense?。
Yeah, we're tracking?。
Yeah, okay.。
Now, did you notice something we were reading?。
I know it was a long passage in the middle of a Sunday,。
but did you notice something that his distractors,。
one of my friends calls them misbehaviors.。
The people, you know, you're good, you're just misbehaving.。
So they're misbehaviors who were after Daniel.。
They had to lie in order to catch Daniel and lay the trap.。
Did you see that in verse seven?。
They're going to the king,。
and it says they talked before they went to the king.。
You know, they were conspiring together,。
and they go before the king,。
and then they say basically,。
all of the officials agree, right?。
But the writer's already given us the org chart.。
We know that Daniel was one of the high officials.。
I don't think Daniel was consulted in this, right?。
Now, I don't know if it's encouraging to you or not,。
or discouraging to you that 2,500 years ago,。
there was already office politics, right?。
It says something about the human heart, right,。
of what we are.。
But let me tell you something that I've found.。
Sometimes when I find myself in a sin。
or something that I've done wrong,。
I've missed the mark or whatever,。
one of the things I recognize is that。
somewhere along the line, I bought a lie.。
If something's not kind of going right,。
and you know it's not going right,。
there's injustice going on.。
We don't know why these guys are against Daniel.。
We don't know if it's because they're jealous.。
We don't know because they're afraid.。
We don't know if there's some racism.。
We'll hear later they talk about he's in exile.。
We don't know why,。
but what I found is that when I'm in a situation,。
whether I'm doing or someone else is doing,。
there's a lie somewhere.。
And so I ask to see the lie,。
and it makes sense if you think about it, right?。
Because the devil is the father of lies,。
and so the lie is going to come somewhere.。
But on the other hand, Jesus is the way,。
the truth, and the life, and the truth sets us free.。
So if you're in a situation, this is just an aside,。
one thing I do is I just pray,。
God, show me what lie I bought.。
Maybe I bought a lie earlier that said I deserve more.。
Maybe that was the lie.。
But what lie did I buy, or that's in this situation,。
and then shine the truth。
so that we can move on and out of this.。
Okay, so that's just an aside.。
We're going to go on to the next section.。
Is that clear?。
Yeah, everybody good?。
Okay, so you might want to turn to your neighbor,。
wake up your neighbor, say, second episode gets better.。
We should have got popcorn,。
and we're going to go on to the next, okay?。
Okay, so let's go to the next section as we read,。
carry on with Daniel.。
Verse 10 says this,。
"When Daniel knew that the document had been signed,"。
okay, so I just want to give you a little bit of a heads up。
what's going on in this section.。
"No matter what's going on in your workplace,。
"no matter what's going on in your home,。
"no matter what struggle you're going through,。
"you always have the choice of how you respond."。
So what we're going to see is。
how did Daniel respond in this situation?。
"When Daniel knew that the document had been signed,。
"he went to his house where he had windows。
"in his upper chamber, open towards Jerusalem."。
You can kind of note that phrase.。
"Then he got down on his knees three times a day。
"and prayed and gave thanks before his God,。
"as he has done previously.。
"And then these men came by agreement,。
"and they found Daniel making a petition and plea。
"before his God."。
He was praying.。
"Then they came near and said before the king。
"concerning the injunction,。
"'O king, did you not sign an injunction。
"'that anyone who makes petition to any God or man。
"'within 30 days except to you, O king,。
"'should be cast into the den of lions?'。
"And the king answered and said,"。
he's quite proud of this law, he said,。
"The thing stands fast.。
"According to the law of Medes and Persians,。
"which cannot be revoked.。
"Then they," these distractors, these misbehaviors say,。
"Then they answered and said before the king,。
"Daniel, who is one of the exiles from Judah,。
"pays no attention to you, O king,。
"or the injunction you have signed,。
"but makes his petition three times a day.。
"Then the king, when he hears these words,。
"was much distressed."。
You can kind of imagine, right?。
The king is thinking, oh shoot, I forgot about Daniel.。
And now he's distressed, and what does it do?。
And this is a beautiful line.。
It says, "He labored until the sun went down to rescue him."。
In other words, what the king is doing。
is he's looking for every legal loophole。
to get Daniel out of trouble before sundown comes.。
But sundown comes, and then the people come back.。
And they, men by agreement, come to the king.。
They say to the king, "Know, O king,。
"that it is the law of the Medes and Persians。
"that no injunction or ordinance。
"that the king establishes can be changed.。
"And then the king commanded,。
"and Daniel was brought in, cast into the den of lions.。
"The king declared to Daniel,。
"May your God, whom you serve continually, deliver you."。
That's a beautiful line, right?。
This is the king, this is the boss talking.。
And he knows Daniel's faith.。
And he says to him, "May your God,。
"whom you continually serve, save you.。
"And a stone was brought, laid on the mouth,。
"denned, king sealed it with his own signet,。
"signet of the Lord's,。
"that nothing might be changed concerning Daniel.。
"And then the king went to his palace。
"and spent the night fasting.。
"No diversions were brought to him,。
"and sleep fled from him."。
I love the relationship between Daniel and the king.。
You're gonna see more of it in the next session.。
But basically, what we see here is,。
how did Daniel respond, right?。
What did he do?。
He knows he's been trapped.。
He knows he's going to the lion's den.。
Verse 10, what does he do?。
Do you remember some time ago,。
there was a campaign that was kind of resurrected,。
renewed from World War II Britain.。
And it had t-shirts, and it had all types of signs.。
It was the one that said, "Stay calm and carry on," right?。
You remember that?。
I mean, we had all types of kind of parodies。
of that going out.。
But that's basically what Daniel does.。
Daniel basically says, I mean,。
he stays calm and he carries on.。
That might be something for us,。
in terms of our situations, whatever those might be.。
So he does that, but what does that mean for him?。
And what that means for him is that he goes。
and he prays three times a day.。
Why is he praying three times a day?。
Psalm 55 says, "I pray to you, Lord,。
"morning, noon, and night."。
He's living that out.。
He's living the word out.。
Why are the windows open?。
The writer goes to great attention to open windows.。
Why are the windows open?。
Because hundreds of years earlier,。
when Solomon had built the temple and he consecrated,。
he prayed over the temple.。
And he knew that one day,。
people wouldn't be able to come to the temple.。
And so he prayed for those who were out of the country,。
that they would pray towards the temple.。
And so what became a sign, a physical, tangible sign。
of a faithful exile, because again, Daniel's an exile.。
He was taken forcefully into exile.。
What became that sign is praying。
with open windows towards Jerusalem.。
So here's my question.。
What are your open windows towards Jerusalem?。
What are the tangible things that point you。
towards God in your workplace?。
Now, I'm gonna be honest with you.。
I might've closed those windows for 30 days, right?。
But Daniel did it.。
He had these open windows, you know,。
and it was so open that the distractors knew they could come。
and they could see him.。
And they could, you know, this day,。
they'd probably take a picture.。
They'd WhatsApp the king or whatever, but they can see him.。
But Daniel was faithful to that.。
What are your, in your workplace,。
what are some reminders for you。
that help you remember who and whose you are?。
Give you some examples.。
If I have a friend who has a kind of alarm set every day。
to 3 p.m., he schedules his day around 3 p.m.。
At 3 p.m., the alarm goes off and he prays.。
That's his way of basically reminding himself。
that the work he's doing, the fruitfulness,。
is only gonna come from God, the lasting fruitfulness.。
Another friend, he's an executive of a global company,。
automotive company in Switzerland, massive office.。
He's got one of those offices with the big cadenza。
down the back and the big desk.。
And on the cadenza at the back is basically a Bible。
open to Proverbs.。
That's his way of saying, I want my decisions。
for this global company to be wise ones。
and to be the wisdom from above.。
For me, I have things on my desk.。
I have a little prayer book that helps remind me,。
what could be yours or what are yours?。
And if they're not yours, what could you do right now。
or today, this week, to start putting those into practice?。
But I love what it says here.。
It says in the prayer, he prayed。
because this was his habit, right?。
And it's praised three times a day.。
And then it says, he prayed and gave thanks to God.。
So I wanna think about that word thanks with you。
for a moment because whatever situation you are in,。
there is something to be thankful for.。
Last couple of years, it's been a really tough one。
in our family for a number of different ways。
for both Marian and I and our extended families.。
My mom died during the time of COVID, not of COVID,。
but she died during that time.。
My dad passed away last year, about this time,。
almost exactly last year.。
Dad really took a turn for the worse。
and I left the work program and went to be back。
with him in Austin and with my brothers.。
He was in the hospital when we were there。
and my brothers and I took time sleeping。
and exchanging off during the shifts,。
sleeping there in the hospital room.。
And I was there probably about eight, 10 days,。
something like that, but most of the time that I was there,。
dad was either sleeping or he was not coherent。
when he was coming to.。
Now, dad was 96, man of God, a Daniel in his own right,。
a scientist that had done amazing work in his life.。
And I was just there and I was praying to God,。
God, give me some time, some moment,。
that when he's coherent, that I can be here with him.。
And sure enough, the night before I was scheduled。
to come back to Hong Kong on like a Tuesday,。
on that Monday night, it was kind of my shift.。
My brother had gone down to get some supper downstairs。
and then he joined us afterwards.。
But during that time, dad woke up and he was coherent.。
And so he kind of came to and then he's like, where am I?。
And I said the name of the hospital and he said, oh no.。
'Cause he'd been in that hospital before,。
he didn't like that hospital.。
So, and then he said, is it bad?。
And I said, yes, it is.。
And then he said, it's a very direct question。
as a scientist, he said, am I going to die?。
And I said, well, we thought we'd lost you over the weekend.。
And then he kind of paused.。
And you can imagine, I mean, tubes coming all out of him,。
hooked up to all these machines,。
machines all over the place.。
And he kind of looks at me and he says,。
there's a lot to be thankful for.。
So, that is a leader of character.。
That is Daniel, that is what Daniel is doing.。
Daniel's going in the midst of this and saying,。
there's a lot to be thankful for.。
And I know that's tough, right?。
I know that's tough to find things to be thankful for.。
Earlier in this year, I had some surgery on my face,。
I had something need to be taken off my nose.。
And so I had this big surgery,。
they had to put something on my face,。
which kind of looked like a big one of those egg sushis。
or something like that, stepped in.。
It was unbelievable, right?。
And so I'm thinking, how can I be thankful for this, right?。
Because I'm speaking, I'm doing these other things.。
But then I was thinking, I can be thankful for this。
'cause well, Mary and my wife, she still looked at me。
and I was okay with that.。
And she was there going through it with me.。
And maybe that's what we can be thankful for。
is that you've got someone to go through this with you.。
And if you don't, reach out, we'll go through with you.。
And that, there's always something to be thankful for.。
In fact, there's a lot to be thankful for.。
One of my nephews made a plaque。
and sent it out to all dad's grandkids and great-grandkids。
and extended family with there's a lot to be thankful for.。
I wanna go on now and finish up the passage.。
But before I do, I don't want us to miss something。
that's very important here.。
And that is that Daniel had habits, right?。
He had habits that were good habits.。
And good habits will hold you in bad times.。
Good habits will hold you in bad times,。
but you can't wait till the lion den come。
to start those habits.。
Says here that Daniel went and looked previously,。
he did what he did previously, it was already a habit.。
Now research today shows he had the two best habits。
in the world in terms of gratitude,。
what that does for you in terms of strengthening you。
and also prayer.。
And let me just reinforce that,。
that habit of daily consistent prayer,。
if you don't have it, put it into place.。
As a pastor in a local churches for many, many years,。
you know, sometimes couples would come to me。
and they would be in a bad situation in their life.。
And between the two of them, the relationship。
was not strong.。
And one of the times when I would talk to them,。
when I, at some point when I would talk to them,。
I would ask them, are you still able to pray?。
Because I know how tough it is to pray during those times.。
And Mary and I have been married 41 years.。
And along the way, we've learned this habit of praying,。
just little prayers.。
So it's basically before we go to bed at night,。
we'll just say a little prayer for each other.。
And, you know, if I pray too long,。
Marian falls asleep, you know?。
So the secret is keep it short, you know?。
But that's the habit that will hold you。
when the times are bad.。
Don't wait, start today.。
Whatever those habits are, put them into place。
because when something comes, that will help hold you.。
Amen?。
- Amen.。
- Okay, still okay, still good?。
Need to wake up the other neighbor on the other side?。
Yeah, okay, tell that person it gets better,。
the lions are coming,。
and Steve might share something personal encounter.。
Okay, so let's go through the last part here。
as we look up and finish up.。
Okay, so,。
then at the break of day, the king rose。
and went in haste to the den of lions.。
And as he came near to the den where Daniel was,。
he cried out in a tone of anguish.。
The king declared to Daniel,。
oh, Daniel, servant of the living God,。
has your God whom you serve continually。
been able to deliver you from the lions?。
I just love that, you know?。
The king doesn't even want to see。
'cause he's afraid of what he's gonna see,。
so he cries from a distance.。
And then Daniel calls back and he says,。
then Daniel said to the king,。
oh, king, live forever.。
My God sent his angel and shut the lion's mouth,。
and they have not harmed me。
because I was found blameless before him。
and also before you.。
Oh, king, I have done no harm.。
And then the king was exceedingly glad.。
You know, I love this relationship between the two.。
I just believe that Daniel was praying。
some of those times for his boss.。
He was praying for his boss.。
Do you pray for your boss?。
Do you pray good things for your boss?。
(congregation laughing)。
Okay, keep praying those good things.。
It works, right?。
We see this relationship here.。
The king was exceedingly glad。
and commanded that Daniel be taken up out of the den.。
And so Daniel was taken up out of the den。
and no kind of harm was found on him.。
Mark this however you can mark it in your heart。
with a pen, because he had trusted in his God.。
And the king commanded,。
and those men who had,。
and the king commanded,。
and those men who had maliciously,。
these are the mistake, misbehaviors,。
accused Daniel were brought and cast into the den of lions.。
They, their children, and their wives.。
This is where the rating of the docuseries goes way up.。
And before they reached the bottom of the den,。
the lions overpowered them。
and broke all their bones in pieces.。
Okay, this is kind of hard, right?。
But I think what the,。
what the writer is telling us is,。
it's not because the lions weren't hungry.。
They didn't eat Daniel.。
There's something else.。
And he wants to make that clear.。
And then the king Darius wrote to all the people,。
nations and languages,。
and receive this as a blessing given to you.。
Peace be multiplied to you.。
I make a decree that in all my royal dominion,。
people are to tremble in fear before the God of Daniel,。
for he is a living God, enduring forever.。
His kingdom shall never be destroyed,。
and his dominion shall be to the end.。
He delivers and rescues.。
He works signs and wonders in heaven and on earth.。
He who has saved Daniel from the power of the lions.。
And you might put your name in there.。
He who has saved you from whatever power。
that you're working against.。
So this Daniel prospered during the reign of Darius。
and the reign of Cyprus, the Persian.。
Okay, I need to wrap up here.。
But I want to say a few things as we close,。
which are really important.。
And the first thing is,。
is if we leave this place today,。
and we think, okay, Steve, got it.。
I'm going to go home.。
I'm going to open my windows.。
I'm going to start praying three times a day,。
and it's all going to work out well.。
Then we've missed the point.。
The point is what we marked earlier,。
because Daniel had trusted God.。
I pray and hope that whatever you're going through。
will have this amazingly,。
beyond expectations and Ephesians.。
We talk about more than we can imagine.。
This powerful ending is beautiful.。
It's a display of God's splendor going out.。
But that's the result.。
And the result we leave to God.。
And this is where Daniel's friends,。
remember Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego,。
who were also teenagers,。
and if you're young here today, step into this, okay?。
Because Daniel used his whole life。
to display the splendor of God.。
And if you're older, like myself,。
there's still time, I'm not 80 yet, right?。
And we can work with it.。
But what we see here is that。
the trust of his friends.。
I want to read a passage from chapter three.。
This is Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.。
Earlier, the king has laid up a big image of gold and said,。
either you worship this image。
or I'm going to put you in the fiery furnace.。
And this is their response.。
If we, the three said, are thrown into a blazing furnace,。
the God we serve is able to save us from it.。
And he will rescue us from your hand, O king.。
But even if he does not, we want you to know, O king,。
that we will not serve your gods。
or worship the image of gold you have set up.。
That's a leader of character.。
That's someone who gets it,。
that what we do is we do the right thing.。
And what we do is we trust the results to God,。
because that's a much bigger story than we have, amen?。
So this word trust is one I want to leave you with.。
And it's one as beginning of a new year,。
often our family will choose a word。
for that year to focus on.。
It was New York a couple of years ago,。
and I chose the word trust.。
Usually my words last till about February,。
but I'm still writing down trust。
at the top of my prayer journal every day.。
Because trust is what,。
this is really what it's about.。
It's about trusting Jesus.。
I want to come to that last slide on trusting Jesus,。
because Dallas Willard basically said,。
"We can sum up the whole of the gospel in two words,。
"and it's these two words."。
It's just in trust in Jesus is where we're at.。
'Cause it's a personal thing, and I love that.。
You know, the word pist is faith.。
It basically just means trust.。
And because I trust Jesus and you trust Jesus,。
we can have a relationship of trust ourselves.。
It doesn't matter if you believe differently。
in a doctrine than I do.。
It's this trusting Jesus.。
It's a personal and a public thing.。
So let me finish just with a little personal story.。
It's an encounter of high time I first met Jesus.。
It was in Zaria, Nigeria,。
a little town in northern Nigeria.。
I was 17 years old, not a believer.。
The story actually starts about two weeks earlier.。
This was on, two weeks earlier we'd been to a conference.。
It was a big conference room like this.。
I was sitting way in the back, causing kind of trouble.。
My mom was down here.。
There was a speaker up here.。
The speaker began to speak.。
There was something in what he said.。
The Holy Spirit empowered him,。
and I just felt that on myself.。
I felt the presence of love, and I felt myself listening,。
and I felt myself changing, and then it was over.。
I don't know what he said.。
I don't even know the speaker.。
Went out that night, 17 year old, non-believer,。
still got in trouble, and had some fun.。
Came in late that night, and then my mom was still up.。
My mom was sitting up here at the conference.。
I was back there.。
Mom, when I walked in, she said,。
"Something happened to you tonight, didn't it?"。
And I said, "Yes, it did."。
And she said, "Do you know what it was?"。
And I said, "No."。
And she said, "Okay."。
And then we went to bed,。
because mom had all the wisdom to know。
to give God space to work.。
And two weeks later, God worked.。
I felt the same presence in the room.。
I got up, and I just felt God's there, and I said, "Yes."。
And from then 'til now, trying the best I can,。
and we're all works in progress, to trust God daily.。
Thomas Merton says, "One thing I know,。
"if you're there when the Spirit dances, dance."。
So if you feel God speaking to you in any way。
about wanting that living relationship or something at work,。
dance, say yes.。
What would it look like for you to trust God more?。
What would it look like for you。
to trust your whole life completely to God,。
if you've not done that?。
Let's close in prayer.。
And I'm gonna invite us just to have a moment。
of just prayer between you and God.。
I don't need to lead this.。
But maybe you wanna start with Daniel。
and just say a word of thanks.。
Thank you, God, that I'm here.。
Thank you, God, that...。
And then...。
Begin to talk with him about what it would look like。
for a spirit of excellence for you.。
What would it look like to develop good habits today?。
What would it look like to trust Him more?。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
