Roslyn is going to work this afternoon. She is going to speak on behalf of her。
organization in a school. So because she's doing some public speaking stuff。
of course like she said, no not of course, she just kindly sent me her script and。
asked, "Hey what should I do with the script?" And of course I'm like, "Oh okay,。
I think you can spice up the intro a little bit." So I sent her back my。
suggestions and then she sent a revised script to one of her colleagues。
who has also been a friend of mine for like 15 years. We were doing ministry。
together. He used to be one of the pastors in Divine Wan Chai. So anyway he。
read that script. This is the comment he wrote back, said, "Chapman is so dramatic."。
I'm like, "That's his comment." So yes, guilty as charged. Too dramatic. So today。
I'm not going to give an intro. I'm not going to do anything. No actually just。
because I was given six verses in the Bible today and when I was studying, when。
I was working on it, I realized I can preach on each verse for half an。
hour and I only have half an hour to preach on six verses. So why don't we。
just, let's get to the point okay today. So if you were here last week, we were。
talking about Matthew chapter 4. Matthew chapter 4 ends with the very。
beginning of Jesus' public ministry. He announced his mission statement and with。
a call to action right. The kingdom of heaven is at hand so repent. He called his。
first disciples, he healed the sick and as a result the Bible says a large crowd。
or large crowds followed him. Today we're going to continue with Matthew chapter。
5. We're going to walk through verses 1 to 6 hopefully with the time I have. So。
here we go. Now when Jesus saw the crowds, he went up on a mountain, sighed and sat。
down. His disciples came to him and he began to teach them. He said, so this is。
the first two verses. First question we got to ask ourselves, who are these。
crowds, these people, who are they? In Matthew's storytelling and his narrative。
as well as in other Gospels, they all mention crowd, these people. They。
mention them a lot and yes of course crowd, this word of course it means a。
multitude of people, a lot of people, we get it. But in Greek this word "oklos" for。
the crowd, it actually also means common people, especially those who are not。
leaders, who are not wealthy, they are just the ordinary people, maybe like you。
and me. There are some nobodies, nobody knows their names, they are not。
the prominent leaders, they are not the influencers, they are not any of those,。
they are the common people. But as a purposeful storyteller, when Matthew。
tells the story of Jesus, he himself of course, Jesus of course is the。
protagonist of the story, right? Amen? And we also know who is or who are the。
antagonists of the story, who have been rejecting his message and questioning。
his authority from the very beginning, who did Jesus openly rebuke in his。
messages, right? And who have been plotting against Jesus on the side。
secretly in the shadows all along or who finally put him on that cross. We knew。
the antagonists of the Gospel or in the Gospel of Matthew, those are the。
religious leaders, the teachers of the law, the Pharisees and the priests in。
Jerusalem. So we have leaders as the antagonists and we have this group of。
crowd, they're not leaders, they're non-leaders, they're the nobodies.。
Last week we saw how Jesus called his very first disciples or followers。
whom we call them, these are the ones who follow him, the disciples.。
They are clearly those who believe in his message and has chosen to follow him,。
committed to follow. So they are the religious leaders who are the。
opposing force or the characters on one hand and we also have the disciples who。
are supporting Jesus. So where do the crowds come in? In the Gospel, the。
Aucklahs, the crowds represent those who are somewhat neutral yet curious about。
Jesus and his message. And in the story, in the Jesus story Matthew is trying to。
tell, he was showing us that this crowd, they stand in the middle of the conflict。
between Jesus and the religious leaders. They're kind of like, in Cantonese we。
have a term called like those, they're the ones who are eating like popcorns or。
peanuts, like they're just watching the show here. "Oh yeah, cool. Why don't you。
guys continue to fight? I'm enjoying the show." Something like that.。
They're kind of caught in the middle. They're neutral, curious, they just want。
to see. And sometimes in Matthew's narrative, it's slightly more positive.。
They would say, "Oh yeah, the crowd actually, they respond to the message of。
Jesus. They think, "Wow, what a wonderful teacher. Wow, he is just amazing. That's。
an amazing thing I've never heard before. Wow, this guy talked with authority."。
Matthew kind of described them in a slightly more positive way, but we know。
that Jesus has been trying to extend his invitation for this group, the crowds, to。
follow him. While the religious leaders, on the other hand, have been trying to。
dissuade them, "Hey, don't listen to this guy. He's the bad guy, right? He's a false。
teacher. He's a false prophet. You know, don't listen to him." That's the conflict.。
That's where the crowd comes in. And on many occasions, we see that the crowds。
are usually quite, they follow Jesus as well. At the end of。
chapter 4, it says, "As a result of Jesus's ministry, healing the sick,。
casting out demons, and doing all that, these crowds, they followed him." I think。
that was one of the best words we were using last week. We were talking about。
discipleship as following Jesus, and now we see there is a big crowd of people, the。
multitude, the common people, they are following Jesus as well. And by following,。
what they're doing is they're trying to remain in proximity to Jesus. They're。
trying to stay close. So when a miracle happens, at least I could see, "Oh, wow.。
Oh, wow, the wine from water. Oh, wow, the loaves and the fish. That blind guy,。
you could see now." They make sure they're in the proximity so they don't miss out。
anything. And that brings us to Matthew 5, 1 and 2. Here it says, "Jesus saw the crowd.。
He went up on the mountainside and sat down. His disciples came to him." That's the。
story that we are reading just now. But this version we're reading, it's from the。
translation, the NIV translation. Grammatically speaking, it didn't fully。
capture what Matthew was writing in Greek. So let me put another translation on the。
screen. Actually, not me. It's our amazing production team. Thank you, Cherry.。
So we have another version, the ESV, on the screen that reads like this.。
"Seeing the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and when he sat down,。
his disciples came to him." I know we have a room full of teachers,。
language teachers, and linguists in the room. I'm not going to pretend I know a。
lot, but from what I study, what I learn, this is what I realize.。
I believe, well, I believe a lot of you would do a better job to explain this。
than me, but when I observe this, I see that there are two sets of clauses in。
Matthew 5, verse 1. This verse is made up of two sets of clauses.。
That's the best way I can describe it. And let me just skip all the big words and all。
the jargon. So let me just say this. In each of these half of that verse,。
Matthew gave us an occasion, and he gave us an action. And the occasion,。
grammatically speaking, this clause is dependent on the clause behind it.。
So the occasion is to give you more information about the action.。
So there are two main actions Matthew was trying to tell you here,。
that Jesus went up to the mountain, and what was the occasion that Jesus went。
up to the mountain? When he saw the aukla, the crowd, the multitude.。
And then he wants to tell you the disciples came to Jesus. In what occasion did the。
disciples come to Jesus? When Jesus sat down. And you're asking, "So, yeah,。
Jesus sat down, right? What's the big deal? And why do we have to, you know,。
how do you have to read another translation just to bring this up?"。
Yeah, you know, we all sit down a lot, right? But then you may have a watch that。
will tell you, "Hey, it's time to stand up." But we sit down a lot.。
When we're tired, we sit down. When we work, we sit down.。
We all sit down, like, a lot in the day. What's the big deal?。
This is actually a very big deal here. Matthew didn't just randomly put down a。
fact, "Oh, Jesus is tired, so he got to sit down." Or, "Oh, yeah,。
he saw a rock. That's a very nice rock, a very nice piece of rock,。
so he sat." No. In the first-century Jewish context, when a rabbi,。
when a teacher sat down, that's the time when he's about to teach,。
when he's about to teach his students. When they read scriptures from the Old。
Testament, of course, or the Hebrew Bible, they will remain a standing posture,。
a standing position. But when they start to teach or start to preach,。
they will sit down. By telling us this, Matthew is trying to tell us,。
"When Jesus went up to the mountain, now he is ready. He's about to start。
preaching." Up to this point, yes, Jesus has given his manifesto,。
his statement, his mission statement that the kingdom is near,。
but we haven't heard Jesus preaching a message. When Matthew is trying to set。
things up, Jesus is going to preach his first message, he used these words.。
He shows us that Jesus sat down like any rabbi would do in those days,。
and he's about to speak. And it was in this occasion that the disciples came。
up to him. This position actually shows us Jesus was in a position of authority.。
He was about to teach. He has the authority to release the word,。
to teach people, to tell them what they should do, and they will listen.。
And Jesus was in this posture of authority. If we put together the first。
sentence and the first clause and the second clause, put the two parts,。
that we see the disciples came to him, it shows us that, yeah,。
when Jesus is demonstrating his authority, they were responding.。
In the New Testament Greek language, there are so many words that could。
represent the meaning of coming to someone. There's a long list.。
I was just searching in my Bible study app, and a whole bunch of words,。
like, came up. But Matthew picked this word, which is called proserkomai.。
This is a very special word that he picked. This word is actually made。
up of two parts. We can see it in the slide. This word is made up of the first。
part, pros, which means towards, this directional information,。
and erkomai means, like, going or coming, this action. The idea is that it is a。
movement towards a person, but this is not just about proximity.。
It's not just about me coming to pass the team, like, our gap is closing,。
like, we're getting closer to each other. No, there are other words in Greek that。
means the proximity of that going or coming action. But this word,。
proserkomai, it doesn't talk about proximity. It talks about intention.。
It talks about the engagement that they're going to have.。
It talks about there's an interaction going on between Jesus and the disciples.。
The disciples were going to Jesus with an intention, the intention to engage。
with him. In other words, the disciples approach to engage with Jesus.。
And the focus here is not about, "Oh, how much time they spend or how。
close they are." It's about why they're getting there. What's their intention?。
What's their interaction? And this word, if we look at, there are not a lot of many。
occasions in the New Testament that the writers use this word, but in other places。
when a writer use these words, sometimes they mean, "I'm coming into agreement。
with that person," or, "I want to join that person." Paul used it in a very。
special place. He was writing a letter to his disciple Timothy. In 1 Timothy,。
Paul used this word to talk about, "Hey, I'm spreading a message."。
And for those who do not agree with this message, those who do not。
pro-erkomai this message, meaning Paul was using this word in a sense not just。
in a physical kind of coming, but in a mental sense that by coming,。
I mean I'm agreeing with this person. I'm drawing close to this person.。
I'm submitting myself under this person's teaching. So the disciples,。
they are not just, "Oh, Jesus is about to tell. Oh, sorry, I can't hear you, Jesus.。
Let me get closer to you so I can hear better." No, they come with the posture。
of surrender. They come with the posture of listening. You must have something that。
you need to say, and whatever you want to say, I want to listen.。
The disciples in the Gospel of Matthew, they have been consistently those people。
who will always come to Jesus seeking understanding. Think about the parable。
of the sowing seeds. When Jesus was done with the parable, the crowd was like,。
"Oh, what's that? I don't know." The disciples came to Jesus.。
"Jesus, explain to us what did you mean?" When Jesus talked about him being the。
bread of life in the Gospel of John, and then, "Come eat my flesh and drink my。
blood," and people say, "God, this guy is crazy. He belongs in the mental ward,。
not here. I'm leaving." And Jesus asked those disciples,。
the inner circle, he asked Peter, "Hey, are you going too?"。
Peter said, "No, in you, you have the eternal word of life.。
Where am I going?" They know what they're coming for.。
They're coming for the eternal word of life. Here, it shows us a picture。
about discipleship. Discipleship is not just about being around Jesus.。
Discipleship is not just about the proximity. It's about that intentionally。
approaching, coming to, to engage with Jesus, saying, "You have the eternal word。
of life, and I'm here. I'm here bringing myself into a posture of surrender.。
I want to listen to you." It's not just about showing up.。
It's about coming close with an intention to engage, to talk to Jesus.。
That's why I don't even like to just ask people, "Have you read your Bible。
nowadays? Have you taken some information?" It's about that interaction.。
Have you met with Jesus today? Have you come to him?。
Have you prosecuted Jesus today? And the funny thing is, you know,。
I've been a Christian my entire life, and if I look back, I look at my prayer life,。
or if I just look at my Christian walk, I like to talk to God,。
especially when I need something from him. I'll come to him.。
I'll do all the talking, and I'm pleased when someone told me, "Yes,。
God is the great listener. He listens to us." I'm like, "Oh, yeah,。
because I have a lot to tell him about, you know, my exams, my..."。
I can't say my girlfriend anymore. That was when I was young, right?。
So a lot of things I need to talk to God about, I'm like, "Okay, God,。
if you're listening, that's great." Here, Matthew was telling us,。
Jesus was in a position, in a posture of authority. He was about to speak,。
and the disciples, they saw it, they recognized. They saw Jesus was about。
to speak, and they act. They came to him in a listening posture.。
We always love a listening God, and we like to do all the talking,。
and he will, like, just get the checklist done. Real discipleship is understanding。
and recognizing when our Jesus, our Lord and Master, he's about to speak,。
and we respond to that with our listening ears, coming, drawing near to him,。
having with an intentional engagement with him. So the question is,。
do we ever recognize when Jesus is teaching us in our lives? Do we always just go。
through troubles, asking for help, "Deliver me, God, bring me out of this,。
help me," or do we actually recognize there are teaching moments that God is。
about to speak in our lives, and we just approach,。
"Echo my Jesus," and say, "God, please speak to me."。
What are you going to pray next time when you're in trouble?。
Are you going to just pray, "God, take me out of this trouble,"。
or are you going to say, "God, I know you might want to teach me a lesson here.。
Reveal that to me. Don't hide it from me. I'm here to learn that lesson.。
I'm here to listen to you." What would our prayer be? Jesus sat down.。
He's all ready to speak. The crowd remained at distance, but the real disciples,。
they took a step forward. Maybe not one step, maybe many steps forward until they。
come to Jesus to show that they're here to listen to him,。
they're here to ask questions, they're here to engage with him,。
they're here to interact with him. What are we? Are we crowds or are。
we the disciples? Matthew is trying to tell us, yeah, discipleship,。
this relationship with Jesus, it's not just about proximity.。
There has to be a purpose. There has to be access as well.。
The crowds may be following Jesus for the miracles, for the blessings,。
for what he might do, but disciples, they approach Jesus for what he will say.。
So, before we move on, I think we can look into our 2026,。
it's still January, it's just the third week. How are we going to。
approach our crew, my Jesus, this year? My prayer for us is that including。
myself, yeah, just set aside some time to think about it. Of course,。
when it comes to listening to God's word, there are so many ways right now.。
You sit here, that's one of the many things you can do. You open the book at home,。
or most of us now, we just open an app, we scroll, there are Bible reading plans,。
then there are tons of YouTube videos, there are great preachers,。
they have animations, breakdown of Bible verses, there are so many ways to access。
like the Bible or the word of God right now. But let me say this,。
or let me encourage us, don't just take in some spiritual information。
or spiritual content. Do not confuse that with coming to Jesus.。
You can consume biblical material and still not approach him,。
and that's exactly one of the rebukes that Jesus had against the religious leaders.。
You study the word so hard, you study the scripture so hard,。
you still miss me. It's not about just being more knowledgeable.。
Yes, that's important, but it's the coming to him, surrendering to him.。
"Now, God, your word, please speak to me. I'm not just trying to be a Bible nerd so。
I can win the next Bible trivia at church. I really want this word to transform me.。
I really want this word to come and change something inside of me.。
So why don't we bow our heads, let's pray a prayer, very short prayer.。
I don't have enough time. Oh, my gosh. I told you I can do one verse for 30 minutes.。
Okay, let's pray a short prayer. Why don't you just come before God。
and you tell him what is the one simple way you approach him this week or tonight?。
In Jesus' name, amen." That's what we're going to do.。
So my encouragement to you is that you write it down and share it with someone.。
If you try to keep it in your head, it will disappear.。
When you start reading the lunch menu, sure, like real story,。
I've experienced that so many times in my life. So write it down, share it with someone.。
In Young Adults, we have one of our members.。
She has been inviting the whole small group to, "Hey, come, let's do a Bible reading plan together."。
So she's been the one who pulled us all together.。
Like we read through books after books.。
We've been doing that a few months and we read a few books in the Bible already。
because someone took the responsibility or accountability and hold us all accountable.。
So if you have someone holding you accountable, that would help.。
Make that, like put it in your diary so you do it.。
So when we finally come to the place where we're hearing from Jesus in verse 2,。
it says, "He opened his mouth to speak."。
Also, this is another language showing Jesus' authority when he finally speaks.。
And here we have the first four verses in the Bible that is Jesus' sermon.。
And it is here to transform, completely transform our understanding of what blessings means.。
Let me read to us Matthew 5, verses 3 to 6, although I'm sure this is quite well known to a lot of you.。
"Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.。
Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted.。
Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the earth.。
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they will be filled."。
First half of the Beatitudes, I'm so grateful.。
I only have to do half. I don't have to do all of them.。
Otherwise, we'll be here for two hours.。
First half of Beatitudes, I grew up learning all this.。
Maybe some of you do as well.。
Maybe this is the...you've read it like a thousand times.。
You've heard a dozen of sermons on that or not.。
But growing up in church, what I was taught is that these eight or nine blessings,。
they are virtues that we as Christians were supposed to cultivate in a spiritual life.。
Or we should be showing these qualities when we are mature Christians.。
That's what I was taught. They are virtues.。
Or maybe I've also heard, maybe you have heard that as well.。
These are the qualities of the citizens of the heaven, of the kingdom of heaven.。
So when you want to look at the kingdom of God, you want to know how the citizens are like.。
You know, the country of Singapore, you look at them, they all speak Singlish.。
And sorry.。
And so you want to know what are the features of these people or the people of the kingdom of heaven.。
Oh, this is the list of the features or the characteristics.。
That's what I learned when I was young.。
Except when I look at it from the virtue kind of approach or the kingdom of heaven citizen kind of like characteristics,。
I have a lot of questions in my head.。
For instance, why is mourning a Christian virtue?。
Of course, I've learned that because this mourning actually,。
it meant we're mourning for our sins in our lives because we sin, you sin, I sin.。
I shout at my friends, I yell at my colleagues, and then I'm so angry at my children and maybe I lie.。
I have so much sin inside of me.。
So when I'm repenting, I'm mourning for my sin.。
That's how I mourn.。
So that's a Christian virtue because that shows us I'm constantly repenting of my sin.。
That's what I learned.。
But if we look at this, if we call them, if these are the characteristics of the people of, what's this?。
The people of the kingdom of heaven, we need to know one thing.。
The kingdom of heaven, we always say this in church, it's already, but not yet.。
Yes, the kingdom of heaven is here right now.。
We can mourn for our sins.。
We're still here.。
But there's one day when the kingdom of heaven finally take over the entire earth,。
there will be no sin, there will be no mourning, there will be no suffering, anything like that.。
Nobody is going to mourn then because nobody's going to sin in the new heaven and earth.。
There is no mourning.。
So mourning as a characteristic of the citizens of the kingdom of heaven, it doesn't make a lot of sense.。
And if we look at those who are hunger and thirst for righteousness, I know how we normally explain it.。
Yeah, you know, we have such a desire for God's righteousness.。
We sing those songs, "Oh God, you're the righteous, you're the just God come."。
"Oh yeah, I have desire."。
We missed the point.。
You know, I desire for chocolate ice cream, especially during the fast.。
But me not having chocolate ice cream doesn't make me hungry or thirsty.。
In order to be hungry, in order to be thirsty, we got to be deprived of the very thing that we need to survive, food and water.。
If you don't eat any food, if you're deprived of the very thing that would keep your body running, that would keep you alive,。
you are hungry.。
You experience hunger, you experience thirst.。
You don't eat something you like to eat, you don't get what you want, that's just a craving.。
You don't get something you need to survive, you experience hunger and thirst.。
That means perhaps righteousness is a necessity for human life.。
Righteousness is a necessary condition for a human to survive or to thrive in God's original design.。
Just like in God's original design, we need food and water to survive.。
In a human society, when there is no justice, when there is no righteousness, we see what happens.。
We see how messed up, we see how many people suffer, we see life, it's not life, there's suffering.。
It's human, it's hell in reality.。
And we see that if you talk to my generation in this city, a lot of people would say, "I'm not going to give birth to a child."。
Why?。
Because this world is so messed up, it means there is no righteousness, there is no justice.。
I don't want to bring a life into a world without righteousness and justice.。
Otherwise, that person will just suffer, that kid will just always live hungry,。
hungry and thirsty for righteousness in his entire life.。
Perhaps, perhaps these four qualities or these four phrases or sentences, whatever you call it in English,。
perhaps these are not prescriptive, meaning these are not the things that Jesus asked you or me to do.。
We have to, this is spiritual discipline, I have to make it happen.。
Perhaps these are not prescriptive, but descriptive.。
Jesus is describing to us what actually happens when His kingdom comes.。
And that actually lines up with the prophetic literature in the Old Testament.。
Oh my gosh, I've been talking so long.。
I'm just going to have to speed things up.。
In Isaiah 61, that's the same passage that Jesus quoted, not in Matthew.。
Matthew didn't capture that, but Luke captured that.。
Isaiah 61, it says, "The Spirit of God is on me because the Lord has anointed me to proclaim the good news to the poor."。
The poor, this word here in Hebrew, when the Hebrew Bible was translated into Greek in the first century,。
before the first century, the very word, the very Greek word used to translate this word poor here。
is the exact same word in verse three, "Blessed are those who are poor in their spirit."。
It's the same word.。
It's echoing the same passage.。
He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, those who are mourning,。
to proclaim freedom for the captives and release from darkness the prisoners.。
So you get what I mean.。
Whatever Jesus was saying in the first couple of sentences we see in the Beatitudes,。
they are echoing what the prophets were describing when the kingdom of God finally arrives,。
when the Messiah finally comes, that's what's going to happen.。
And when Jesus stood up, he says, "Yes, the kingdom of God is here right now."。
And he declares that, "Blessed are the poor in spirit.。
Blessed are those who are mourning," echoing what the prophets were saying in the past.。
And we should look at this, just now we look at, I know you have this question,。
what about the meek?。
Like I know nowadays we interpret the meek as the humble,。
but this exact phrase, "Blessed are the meek for they will inherit the earth,"。
it actually comes from an Old Testament Bible verse.。
It's on the screen right now.。
Psalm 37, it's here at the end.。
I mean, verse 11, this psalm, it's a psalm that David wrote that talks about,。
"God, how come there are wicked people in your perfect world?。
You are a just God.。
You are a good God.。
How come you let them do the things they are doing?。
How come this world is this way?。
How come wicked people are taking charge and we, the righteous, are suffering?"。
But this psalm, God is trying to remind or David is trying to remind us,。
like, "Do not fret because those who are evil.。
Don't try to pay evil back with evil.。
Don't try to fight violence with violence.。
See where it's coming?"。
He was saying, "Yeah, these are the wicked people that are powerful,。
not in the Old Testament days in the history of Israel.。
Those who are evil, normally, just unfortunately,。
it happened to be those who are rich, those who are powerful,。
those who have the ability to exploit the poor,。
to exploit those who have less resources than them,。
that those are the common people.。
They are the ones who are exploited by the leaders."。
And here, this psalm saying, "You know what?。
There will be one day, a little while, when the kingdom of God comes,。
the wicked will be no more, but the meek will inherit the land."。
Those people will be removed when the kingdom of God comes。
and the meek will inherit the land.。
Who is the meek?。
The meek is the oppressed.。
Those who are suffering from the oppression of the rich,。
of the leaders, of those ungodly leaders, they are suffering.。
But here, this psalm is teaching us the meek being,。
"I'm not fighting their violence with my own strength, with my own power.。
I'm not trying to do something to take revenge.。
I'm not an avenger, goddess.。
I'm not doing that for myself."。
So the meek, in two sense, one,。
they, in front of those powerful in society,。
they are the powerless, naturally.。
But then they also choose to remain in a powerless condition。
because they know they don't have to take power themselves。
because God is powerful.。
God is their vindicator.。
God is their defender.。
God will come and do something.。
And when, a little while, when the kingdom of God comes,。
things will change.。
Jesus was quoting all these scriptures from the Old Testament,。
from Psalm, and from the prophetic literature to remind us。
that's God's kingdom.。
And right now, the king has come.。
OMG, I don't have enough time.。
All right, the king has come.。
He's saying, "You know what?。
Yeah, the kingdom of God belongs to those who are poor in spirit,。
those who are brokenhearted, those who are mourning,。
those who are meek, they are powerless in front of all these wicked,。
powerful people in the society, in the city, in the nation,。
and those who don't, they were deprived of righteousness.。
That's why they're always left hungry and thirsty for righteousness.。
But know what?。
Now the kingdom of God has come and I'm going to turn things around.。
Jesus is saying, "My kingdom is an upside-down kingdom.。
I'm here to turn things around."。
If you want to know what the kingdom of God looks like,。
Jesus is revealing here.。
Jesus is showing His disciples what the kingdom of God looks like。
by telling them who the king actually cares deeply about.。
You want to know what the kingdom of God looks like?。
Jesus is saying, "I'm the king and I'm telling you who do I care the most about.。
The broken, the vulnerable, the oppressed, the hungry, the poor.。
Those are the people that I care the most about," Jesus says.。
Not the successful, not the influencers.。
While this world always think even when the Israelites were expecting,。
or the Jews were expecting the Messiah, they thought,。
"This guy must be strong, must be powerful, must come and fight the world."。
But Jesus says, "I come here, my kingdom is different."。
And so, the poor in spirit.。
Yes, some of them could be really so poor,。
they lack the resources to meet their minimum living standard.。
But you know, sometimes we also lack the spiritual resources,。
the mental resources.。
We lack the character that is needed.。
We lack the love that is needed in a marriage, in a family.。
We lack the character, we lack the integrity that is needed in a workplace.。
We thought, "Oh yeah, I'm kind of a loving person, that's okay,"。
until you and your spouse get into the next fight.。
"Oh yeah, you know, I'm kind of an honest person,"。
until the temptation comes.。
Or until you have to tell a white lie to cover up something in your life.。
Only until we realize, we identify ourselves with those who are poor in spirit,。
Jesus says, "You know what? My kingdom is yours,。
and you will experience my kingdom there and then."。
When you know you don't have enough in you,。
when you know you are the ones who are lacking,。
when you finally realize God's kingdom shows up for us there and then.。
The poor in spirit are the ones who are empty,。
the mourners are those who are broken,。
the meek are the powerless,。
and the hungry are those who are desperate.。
But God's kingdom is an upside-down kingdom.。
That's why when Jesus was declaring this message,。
it has something that we always describe in the vine like this,。
He's here to comfort the afflicted,。
but He's also here to afflict the comfortable.。
He is here to force us to look into ourselves,。
"Where does my security come from?。
Is it that number or many digits in my bank account,。
or the title or how many titles or suffix after your name in your name card?。
What are the things that give you your security in life?"。
There are a few things we need to know.。
Beatitudes as good news to the suffering is not demands for righteousness.。
It exposes an implicit judgment on the comfortable, on the powerful,。
if those are the people that would exploit other people for their own interest.。
It clarifies repentance.。
It's not just, "Oh, I've done this or that."。
It's about realizing, "What? I don't have what it takes.。
I don't have what it takes to live this life that God has called me to live.。
I need Him."。
When you realize that, you will naturally proserkoma.。
You would come to Jesus.。
You know you don't have what it takes to live the kind of life。
that He has called you to live.。
You would want to come to Him, especially when you recognize。
that's the teaching moment, that He's speaking to you.。
You would want to draw near to Him, not just for the proximity,。
but in purpose.。
You want to listen.。
You want to obey.。
And you want His word to come and transform your life.。
And so, where do we find our security today?。
Where do we find our security?。
The amazing thing is that, you know, when Jesus declared all this,。
like He's the poor in spirit, the mourning.。
You know, for the poor in spirit, He's actually the generous God.。
For the mourning, He is the comforter.。
For those who are meek or powerless or lowly, He is their defender.。
For those who are hungry for righteousness, He is the righteous King.。
The answer to these people is Jesus Himself.。
So, the good news today is the King has come.。
So, when in the presence of the King, in His kingdom, these people,。
these people whom He cares about so deeply, they are blessed.。
So, the question is, where do we stand today?。
Do we still try to find security in the things that we used to find?。
Or do we come into the economy of this kingdom and align ourselves,。
first of all, and say, "Yeah, I thought I have, but actually I don't.。
I thought I'm rich, but actually I'm poor.。
I thought I'm strong, but actually I'm weak."。
Would we allow the Holy Spirit to come and transform our understanding。
of weak and strong, rich and poor, and allow Him to show us。
who we really are and what we really need?。
The moment we realize, "Wow, I'm actually poor," God says,。
"You know what? My kingdom is yours. I'm with you.。
I'm your king, and I care about you deeply."。
And I know I talk about the "not yet" of the kingdom in this church a lot.。
Like, the kingdom of God is something that is so far away,。
so we're still experiencing all the brokenness, all the hardship.。
We talk a lot about that, especially during, what was that in December?。
Advent, yes, sorry, I forgot.。
We talk about it in Advent, but I want to talk about the alreadyness。
of the kingdom of God as well.。
The king is already here.。
Jesus has already arrived.。
He has already done something in your life, in my life.。
What we should see should be the alreadyness of the kingdom。
in this church, in our lives.。
There was one time the staff with one child were on a retreat,。
and I was in a very super cold, kind of air-conditioned room.。
I was just walking and praying, and suddenly I walked to the door,。
which was open, and it was a very hot, sunny day outside.。
When I walked towards the door, when I approached the door,。
wow, so warm.。
I experienced the warmth of the sun outside,。
but at the same time, I could still feel the cold in the room at the same time.。
I experienced both, but I'm starting to experience the warmth,。
the already and the not yet.。
And you know what?。
For us, for God, for His kingdom to continue to grow,。
He's just asking you and me to be those doors,。
doors in your family, in your workplace, in your community.。
When you're that open door, when you're that connect point, that hotspot,。
people around you, they will start to experience the kingdom,。
the comfort, the warmth, the energy, the joy, the peace, the love.。
They will start to be that door, be that connection point for them,。
because the kingdom has already come.。
Are we just selling people something that is so far away。
because we barely come to Jesus ourselves,。
or are we going to actually take those steps every day。
to prostrate our mind to Jesus so that His life is overflowing in us,。
and we will become those doors in our community, in our city,。
that the kingdom, the reality of the kingdom would expand。
and invade our surroundings through you and me?。
Are we going to be that kind of church?。
I think that's the question we're asking here today.。
So why don't we spend some time to pray together?。
Father, thank you that your kingdom is near.。
The king is here.。
You're not someone who is so far away.。
You're even present right now in this room.。
It's your very presence that we sense in a time of worship.。
It was your presence, it was your goodness,。
it was your kingdom at work in the testimony。
we had the privilege to listen to earlier,。
and to submit our lives to you to prose Erkomai,。
to come to you so that we, ourselves,。
will be able to tell that kind of stories as well.。
And also not just ourselves, so that people around us。
will be able to tell that kind of stories as well.。
Father, I pray a very simple prayer for our church, for this church,。
that God, I pray that in this church,。
there will be disciples and not just crowds.。
I pray that when you are in the posture of authority,。
when you're about to speak,。
we would come to you with intentional listening.。
We would come to you in a posture and say,。
"God, please come and transform me with your word in my life."。
And God, I pray that discipleship in this church would look like this.。
As we prose Erkomai, as we draw near you,。
as you change our lives,。
we would become those doorways。
that unleash your kingdom in this world.。
That's what the discipleship of this church is about.。
It's about our lives aligning with you。
so that the king can send his representatives,。
his ambassadors into Hong Kong, into Yuen Long, into this world,。
that this world will be transformed by your kingdom.。
We are your ambassador.。
We're here to announce that, yes, the king has come.。
The kingdom is at hand.。
We would see it in families around us.。
We'll see it in workplaces.。
We'll see it in all those people's lives around us.。
God, this is our declaration.。
And we thank you, Lord.。
We thank you, Lord.。
You show us what your kingdom is like。
by revealing, by sharing with us who the king cares about.。
I love this king.。
I have so much joy inside of me just talking about this king.。
He's such a good king.。
He's so trustworthy.。
And it's time to put our trust in him。
over all the other things we have put our trust in.。
Why don't we stand, church?。
Why don't we respond to his faithfulness, his love?。
He said his kingdom is here already.。
Why don't we just take the step to him and say,。
I want to be a part of that kingdom,。
And I want to bring this kingdom forward in Jesus' name.。
