I don't know about you guys, but for me, when I face a problem or a challenge,。
I go into action mode.。
So I'm the action mode guy.。
I want to resolve the issue, I want to get rid of the chaos,。
maybe reestablish equilibrium, and I just go for it.。
And it doesn't matter what type of problem it is.。
It might be something related to relationships,。
maybe it has to do with work.。
I just go for it and try to resolve it.。
I'm just actually curious, is there anybody like me here?。
Like people who go into action mode.。
Yeah, a little bit? Okay.。
So I'm that type of person.。
Now, of course, sometimes I come across an issue, a challenge, a struggle。
that I'm not able to resolve by going into full action mode,。
where I'm not able to address whatever's going on.。
And I just find myself in this waiting period.。
I feel like that's all I can do.。
I can just wait for something to change.。
And I wonder if some of you are perhaps feeling this way right now,。
that there is a challenge, there is a struggle,。
there is something where you're waiting for a breakthrough。
that is happening in your life.。
Maybe it's relationship, maybe it's emotionally, maybe it's health-related,。
where you just feel stuck.。
But it doesn't matter what you do,。
you're not able yourself to address it or resolve it.。
And so you're also in this place of waiting.。
And so what I want to do with you today,。
what I want to explore with you today is this question.。
How do we wait for God to act and move in our lives when we feel stuck?。
Is there a way that we're meant to wait?。
Is there something how our faith is supposed to look like in these time periods?。
And so that's what I want to explore with you through today's message.。
We're going to continue through in the sermons here is the story of Joseph.。
And let me just briefly set the context for maybe,。
you know, some of you weren't here last week.。
So basically what's been going on is Joseph, he's had a rough going, right?。
I mean, he got enslaved, sold into slavery by his brothers,。
and he's in part of his household where things seem to be going a little bit better.。
And then his wife, or not his wife, part of his wife,。
she accuses him essentially of rape, falsely accuses him,。
and then he's thrown into prison.。
Now, we were told that the Lord was with Joseph and that he showed him kindness.。
So despite being in this difficult circumstance of Joseph, you know, God is with Joseph,。
but man, it's rough, it's not easy.。
And so we're right now going to pick up where Joseph is in prison.。
So he's in a period of waiting, and let me take you there.。
Genesis chapter 40, verse 1, starting with 1, it says this.。
"Some time later, the cupbearer and the baker of the king of Egypt offended their master, the king of Egypt.。
Pharaoh was angry with his two officials, the chief cupbearer and the chief baker,。
and put them in custody in the house of the captain of the guard.。
In the same prison where Joseph was confined, the captain of the guard assigned them to Joseph,。
and he attended to them."。
So we learn that the baker and the cupbearer, which are very high-ranking officials,。
it might not sound like it, but they're actually very important roles.。
They're like the elite in Egypt, and they somehow, they take off, they make Pharaoh angry.。
We don't know why, and so they're thrown into the jail.。
Now what's interesting is that the prison is called the house of the captain of the guard.。
Now Paddafor, in the previous chapter, is called the captain of the guard.。
So it seems like that this prison might have been attached even to Paddafor's house.。
Paddafor basically put Joseph in prison right where he's living,。
and he's actually in charge and overseeing this prison.。
So he assigns Joseph to take care of and look after these two prisoners.。
Now what's interesting is that we're told that Joseph attends to the cupbearer and the baker.。
In the word "attend," it's "sharet," and it also means "to minister and to serve."。
So Joseph is assigned to them, but he's also ministering and serving them.。
So let's find out, let's look at what does it mean that he's ministering and serving them.。
So we're going to continue in verse 4, and it says this.。
"Now after they had been in custody for some time, each of the two men,。
the cupbearer and the baker of the king of Egypt, were being held in prison,。
had a dream the same night, and each dream had a meaning of its own.。
When Joseph came to them the next morning, he saw that they were dejected.。
So he asked various officials who were in custody with him in his master's house,。
'Why do you look so sad today?'。
'We both had dreams,' they answered, 'but there is no one to interpret them.'。
Then Joseph said to them, 'Do not interpretations belong to God? Tell me your dreams.'"。
So we're told the cupbearer and the baker, they have these dreams, they look sad.。
It's actually quite amazing that Joseph notices and picks up on that they're not doing well,。
and asks them, so I just want us to think about this for a moment.。
When you have a rough going in your life, when you are going through something difficult,。
I think a lot of times it's very easy to be self-focused.。
It's very easy to be absorbed with what's going on in our own lives.。
And it would be perfectly legitimate and okay to actually not really pick up on。
how somebody else is doing as you're going through something difficult.。
So it's amazing that Joseph actually notices what's going on in the cupbearer and the baker's life.。
It's quite amazing that he's able to rise above his circumstances, his own challenges,。
his own difficulty, and to ask them and express care to them with what's troubling them.。
And so then they tell him what's troubling them.。
They say, 'We both had dreams, but there is no one to interpret them.'。
So the problem is that they don't have an interpreter to their dreams.。
So this dream, somehow they both knew this dream had some significance, had some meaning,。
but there's nobody there to help them interpret it.。
Now, what you have to know about Egyptians during that time is that they had dream interpreters.。
So in that culture, they had dream interpreters.。
You would tell them your dream, then they would look through commentaries,。
dream commentaries, and would come back to you with a meaning of what this dream means.。
But because the cupbearer and the baker are in prison, they're not able,。
they don't have access to that. So they're like stuck.。
It's like almost as if somebody gives you a diagnosis and says, 'You have phabla shlabda.'。
And you're like, 'What does phabla shlabda mean? What does that mean? Tell me, doctor!'。
So they're waiting for an explanation of what this actually means.。
And it's incredible because Joseph, it would have been quite natural or easy for him to say,。
'Let me pause you right there.'。
Actually, I love that phrase. 'Let me pause you right there.'。
It's like when somebody starts going somewhere and you don't want them to go there.。
You say, 'Let me pause you right there.'。
So if I ever use that on you, I'm sorry. 'Let me pause you right there.'。
So it would have made sense for Joseph to say that. 'Let me pause you right there.'。
Because they're talking about dreams. And remember Joseph's story?。
He had not so great experience with dreams.。
When he shared the dreams with his family about them bowing down before him,。
that's what kind of got him into this pit, into this dungeon, into this prison in the first place.。
So it would have been not a surprise if he said, 'You know what? I wanted to help you,。
but I don't really want to talk about dreams. I don't think you should worry about dreams.。
Dreams, shmeams, they just don't come true. So just don't worry about it.'。
But again, that's not what Joseph does.。
So what does Joseph do?。
His response is, 'Do not interpretations belong to God. Tell me your dreams.'。
Wow, that's amazing.。
So Joseph, he does not need commentaries and things because he has a relationship with God,。
and the interpretation belongs to God.。
And because he has this relationship with God, God will help him to interpret the dreams.。
But you know what's even more amazing?。
It's actually that this is a total statement of faith.。
Joseph, in this dark moment, he actually has never let go of his faith.。
He's holding on to his faith in God.。
He's holding on to the dream that God has spoken over his life.。
He has not given up on it, because if he had given up on it,。
he would not want to interpret dreams. He would want nothing to do with it.。
So this is absolutely incredible.。
This word that God has spoken over Joseph, this dream,。
even though his circumstances around him seem to scream, 'That dream is never going to come true,'。
Joseph is still holding on in faith, in hope, to what God has spoken to him.。
So that means that he somehow must have continued to connect with God,。
because you don't hold on to dreams unless you pour into that relationship,。
unless you draw near, and keep drawing near, and keep talking to God about what's going on.。
Otherwise, you let go of the words that God has spoken.。
And so, in Joseph, he's living this time, he's been given a word,。
but it hasn't been fulfilled, so he's living in this in-between tension.。
And I think we can relate to that. A lot of us, we live in this in-between time,。
where we know there's something that God wants to do, or we're waiting on God to do something,。
but we find ourselves living in a tension that's the 'not yet.'。
But he's holding on to faith.。
And I believe there are some of us here today that God wants to encourage you to hold on to your faith,。
to not give up, whether it's a promise from Scripture, from God's word,。
whether it's maybe God has given you a personal word.。
I believe that God wants to encourage you to not give up on what he has spoken to you,。
to hold on, to keep your faith, to keep your hope in him,。
because he is worthy of our hope.。
He is worthy of our trust.。
Now, I want to share a little bit of a personal story for me.。
The Joseph story kind of lends itself to, I'm sorry that I keep talking about this,。
but basically, a lot of you know I've went through a very traumatic, difficult personal experience.。
I was left in a relationship.。
And so, six months into that time, I remember my bank account is dwindling.。
I don't have a job.。
I don't really know what I'm going to do next, or if I can, you know,。
can I even re-enter ministry and do all of that?。
And so I'm in this in-between time.。
I'm really stuck.。
And so I went and I prayed and read God's word,。
and I really received a word from the Lord, a personal word from the Lord.。
And he told me that I will establish you in my time.。
Wow.。
That was amazing.。
And that encouraged me so much, yet it also kind of scared me,。
because it said "my time."。
And I like things right now, right?。
Because I'm the action mode guy, and I want to do things and part my effort and make stuff happen.。
But it was so powerful.。
So God spoke this word over my life.。
And it was something I can't tell you how many times I've gone back to this word.。
And when I look back at where I am now, man, God has been so good.。
He has been faithful.。
He has fulfilled his word to me.。
He has blessed me with an incredible wife, Chris.。
And together we have a beautiful daughter, Ellie.。
And I'm able to--the pastor--man, God is so good.。
He's so faithful.。
But it was years.。
It wasn't resolved in a week.。
But I just want to encourage you.。
If you're in that in-between time, if you're in that waiting time,。
man, God wants to--he's faithful to his promise.。
I actually had a scripture from Romans.。
Paul, writing to the Romans Christians, he says this, and he's quoting the prophet Isaiah.。
As scripture says, "Anyone who believes in him will be never put to shame."。
When we place our trust in Jesus, when we run to Jesus, as we were singing earlier, so beautiful,。
and we trust him, we are never put to shame.。
He will come through for you.。
He will do what he promises he will do in your life.。
And he's with you, and he will get you through.。
Isn't that a beautiful word?。
You know, we will never be put to shame when we place our trust in Jesus?。
You know, that his word over our lives will come to pass?。
Oh, it's amazing.。
So Joseph, he's been holding on to his word, his dream that's been spoken over his life.。
He's holding on to his promise of God, even though everything around him doesn't seem like it's going to come to pass.。
Actually, it seems quite the opposite, that the opposite is happening.。
And then he tells the cupbearer and the baker, "Tell me your dreams."。
And he's willing to interpret them.。
So let's see what happens next.。
Verse 9.。
So the chief cupbearer told Joseph his dreams.。
He said to him, "In my dream, I saw a vine in front of me, and on the vine were three branches,。
and as soon as it budded, it blossomed, and its cluster ripened in the grapes.。
Pharaoh's cup was in my hand, and I took the grapes, and I squeezed them into Pharaoh's cup,。
and put the cup in his hand."。
"That is what it means," Joseph said to him, "that three branches are three days.。
Within three days, Pharaoh will lift up your head and restore you to your position,。
and you will be put Pharaoh's cup in his hand, just as you used to do when you were a cupbearer."。
So Joseph gives a very clear interpretation to the dream.。
Cupbearer, you're going to be restored back into the graces of Pharaoh.。
You're going to be serving him again.。
You know, an incredible, encouraging, beautiful word.。
Then Joseph, he also seizes this moment, and he actually makes a request.。
So let's look at that in verse 14.。
"But when all goes well with you," says Joseph's dream, "remember me and show me kindness.。
Mention me to Pharaoh and get me out of this prison.。
I was forcibly carried off from the land of the Hebrews,。
and even here I have done nothing to deserve being put in a dungeon."。
To be put in a pit is actually the same word, dungeon, as the pit, the cistern,。
that Joseph was thrown in by his brothers.。
So after interpreting the dream, Joseph, he seizes that opportunity,。
because he knows that he's going to be restored back to Pharaoh.。
This also speaks of the type of access that the cupbearer has to Pharaoh.。
It shows the importance of his position.。
When you can make a personal request to Pharaoh, you're pretty close to him.。
You have some sway.。
And so he asks him to help him.。
But it also is the first time that Joseph actually speaks of his own trauma in his life.。
It's the first time that he verbalizes it.。
And he's expressing to the cupbearer his innocence.。
"Get me out of here. I've been treated unjustly.。
Plead for me with Pharaoh."。
Now, some scholars, they say that Joseph here is trying to make stuff happen out of his own strength.。
He's trying to make things happen on his own instead of relying and trusting in God.。
But I don't think that that is a fair judgment or assessment of what's going on.。
The way I interpret it is that Joseph senses that God is somewhere at work。
through what's happening here with this relationship.。
And so it's like a ray of light in this darkness.。
Or like earlier we were talking about the storm and the sea.。
It's like seeing that first ray of light and you're like running towards it and seizing that moment.。
And so he makes this request.。
But let's continue what happens next.。
And this is about the baker.。
So in verse 16.。
"When the chief baker saw that Joseph had given a favorable interpretation,。
he said to Joseph, 'I too had a dream.。
On my head, three baskets of bread.。
In the top basket were all kinds of baked goods for Pharaoh.。
But the birds were eating them out of the big basket on my head.'。
'This is what it means,' Joseph said.。
'The three baskets are three days.。
Within three days, Pharaoh will lift off your head and impale your body on a pole。
and the birds will eat away your flesh.'"。
Hmm.。
Maybe he wished he would have not asked what does this dream mean.。
But what I want you to notice in this moment is that Joseph,。
in both instances, he actually reveals and says what God asked him to show.。
And that's not easy, right?。
To deliver such a difficult message, it will be easy to kind of soften it。
or change it because you just don't interpersonally want to deal with。
delivering that type of message.。
But it also just shows again that Joseph is faithful。
and trusts God with what he says, and he just does what God asks him to do.。
So that's a--。
And one more thing.。
In both interpretations, they're not like, "Let me interpret your dream."。
Something is going to happen to you on some day, in some way,。
and will somehow impact your life.。
That could mean anything, right?。
It's so vague, it doesn't mean anything.。
But Joseph's interpretation of a dream is super specific.。
It's like in three days.。
In three days, everyone's going to know whether or not he interpreted a dream correctly.。
And so let's see if he did.。
Continuing in verse 20.。
"Now the third day was Joseph's birthday, and he gave a feast for all the officials.。
He lifted up the heads of the chief cupbearer and the chief baker。
in the presence of his officials.。
He restored the chief cupbearer to his position。
so that he once again put the cup in the pharaoh's hand.。
But he impaled the chief baker just as Joseph had said to them in his interpretation.。
The chief cupbearer, however, did not remember Joseph.。
He forgot him."。
So Joseph's interpretation was correct.。
It came to pass what he said.。
He heard from God correctly.。
And we can only imagine on Joseph's end,。
he didn't have the narrative telling him that the cupbearer forgot him,。
but on his end, we just picture him eagerly waiting.。
He knows there's going to be somebody, my cell is going to be opened,。
and somebody is going to get me out and bring me before Pharaoh,。
and I'm going to be innocent, and everything is going to be great,。
and God's dreams are going to come to pass.。
A week passes, nothing happens.。
Okay, he needed some time to settle back in his new job.。
Two weeks pass, nothing happens.。
That's okay, still okay timeline.。
A month, two months, three months, six months, a year.。
Oh man, he forgot me.。
Now, next week, we're going to see that after two years, he does remember.。
But it took another two years.。
But I believe that Joseph was nonetheless encouraged,。
even though he was discouraged by that, but I think he was encouraged.。
Let me tell you why.。
Because he interpreted God's dream correctly,。
and the dream that God gave to the cupbearer and the baker,。
it came to pass.。
So that gave him assurance about this dream that God had spoken to him,。
that it will also come to pass.。
That he had not wrongly interpreted,。
but that he had heard rightly from the Lord.。
So I think there was that encouragement to hold on and to have faith,。
and to keep going for him there.。
Now, all of this brings me back to the question that I raised at the beginning of this message,。
which is how do we wait for God to act and move in our lives when we feel stuck?。
How are we meant to wait on God?。
And what does Joseph's story, his life, what does that tell us?。
What insights does it give us?。
What encouragement does it give us?。
Well, it's interesting because when we think of waiting,。
I picture I was one time in a theme park,。
and I waited three or four hours in line to do one ride.。
Anyone?。
It was not a lot of fun.。
And so that's like a lot of times how we picture waiting, right?。
It's like you're waiting in line for a restaurant,。
and time just passes, and then you get to sit,。
or you get to go on the ride, and that's it.。
But biblically speaking, waiting is not passive, but it's something that's active.。
We're meant to wait actively.。
Now, what might this look like to wait actively, and how do we see this in Joseph?。
Well, first, when we wait on the Lord, we actively draw close to him.。
We commune with him and cling to his word and his promises.。
It's easy when things are not going very well to kind of stop our relationship with God。
and put it on--let me pause you right there.。
But actually waiting involves actively seeking God,。
actively speaking to God about what's going on.。
Even if it is like pouring out a frustration to him, God can handle it.。
You don't have to say things pretty to him.。
You can just tell him what you're feeling, what you're experiencing,。
and just put it out there.。
In biblical language, it's called lament, when you're just pouring out and sobbing。
and telling him, "God, help me. Why are you putting me through--?"。
You can do that. God can handle it. It's okay.。
And so we're meant to draw close, and when we draw close, it's always amazing。
because God meets us. He speaks to us.。
I shared earlier my story. God spoke to me. I drew close to him.。
I'm talking about six months in that I had this word.。
It's not like I always have this, but he spoke to me when I read his word.。
And so when we're waiting, it's not just us sitting there or standing.。
I guess in the Hongwan Langnaam, standing, you're not going to have a seat。
when you're waiting for the restaurant most of the time.。
You're going to wait, but it's not waiting passively, but we're waiting actively。
through prayer, through engaging in our relationship with God.。
And when we do that, God meets us, and he speaks to us, and he wants to encourage you,。
and he wants to pour his grace over you, and he wants to renew your faith,。
your strength, and just encourage you in that.。
And we see that with Joseph because his faith is so strong and vibrant.。
So he had held on to it. He has been drawing near.。
Otherwise, there is not that vibrancy when you're in such a dark pit,。
but yet you're still holding on to the promises of God.。
But then the second thing of waiting that we learned from Joseph is waiting actively。
means to stay available for God to work in and through you.。
So just because we're in this in-between time where we're waiting for this one issue。
to be resolved does not mean that God does not want to do something in us and through us.。
And it's like Joseph, he made himself available to God.。
He rose above his circumstances, and he ministered, and he served the cupbearer in the bakery.。
He asked them, "You look sad. What's going on?"。
He's caring. And it's incredible that when we make ourselves available to care for others--。
Now, I need to say this to you.。
Sometimes we're doing so bad, like we're not able to do that, and that is okay.。
But there is a point usually where we are able to do that, where we are able to be available.。
And when we do that, it actually is amazing how a lot of times it gives us a perspective shift。
when we serve somebody else in need, when we care for somebody else in need.。
When we make ourselves available to God, God gives us a different perspective.。
He encourages us.。
So I want to share with you also an experience that I had.。
Again, same life period.。
I had just stepped down from being a pastor, but there was still a course like Alpha--。
It was not Alpha, but something like that--still going on.。
So I said, "What do I do?"。
"Are there a few people in there? Do I continue teaching it?"。
"Do I just say, 'Hey, I have so much turmoil in my life. I'm sorry I can't do it.'"。
And I really wrestled with that, but I felt led to keep teaching this course.。
And in that course, there was a Chinese scholar.。
So I was living in San Diego. It was University of California, San Diego.。
She was doing some program there.。
And at first, she just came to our church and joined this course。
because she was just like, "Hey, I'm here in the U.S. I might as well explore what Christianity is all about."。
And then as we're going through this course and reading God's Word,。
suddenly there was a switch where it was amazing how she understood Scripture。
and what she shared. It was like, "Wow, God is working."。
There was a light switch being turned on in her heart, in her life.。
And so I thought that on the last session that she would become a Christian,。
that she would place her faith in Jesus, but it didn't happen.。
It didn't happen. I was actually quite surprised because all the signs were there,。
that there was something happening inside of her.。
But she did ask a question, and she asked the question,。
"How can I know that Jesus really exists, that he's real?"。
And I said, "Well, you can pray to him. You can ask him to reveal himself to you,。
and he will do that. He will show himself to you."。
So that's where we left off.。
Now, a while later, probably a month or so after this course, I got an email.。
And I'm going to read you some parts of it. I edited it a little bit for privacy's sake,。
but I want to read some parts of that email to you.。
So here's what she wrote.。
"Dear Tim, I want to write to you a very long time ago,。
but I didn't know how to express myself properly.。
Since I had attended your Bible study class, I've changed so much,。
which could not be predicted, explained by myself.。
I remembered when I asked you how to know Jesus does exist,。
you said Jesus will show himself to you.。
That's absolutely true.。
I received the gift, and I decided to be baptized,。
and it will be the day I am reborn in Jesus Christ.。
And I want to share this news with you because you helped me and inspired me so much,。
and I cannot thank you enough.。
I know it's God's plan to let me join in your class,。
and the Holy Spirit changes my mind and helps me find purpose in life.。
I feel so blessed and cannot stop praising the Father.。
I would like to invite you to my baptism, if you have time."。
I had time.。
"I know you might be very busy and have a lot of change in your life."。
She knew what was going on.。
"That's okay.。
If you cannot come, because I know that you must be very happy for me,。
I prayed, pray, and will pray for you and your future life."。
And she had some other encouraging words, which for me was so amazing.。
Here is somebody who just becomes a Christian,。
and she's encouraging this pastor, ex-pastor,。
going through an extremely difficult time in his life.。
I have a photo for you guys.。
I also chose one that kind of hides it.。
I'm in the house, and I get God to baptize her.。
For me, actually what you don't know is for me I was asking the question,。
"Will God ever work through me in my life again?。
Will I ever be a pastor again?"。
And from here, God, I made myself available.。
It was totally not convenient.。
And God worked through my life, and he showed me,。
"Yes, Tim, I'm going to use you."。
And I can't tell you how encouraging that was,。
while I was in this period of waiting,。
to know that God was not finished with me,。
that he is still working through me and working in my life,。
and that there is more to come.。
So it was so encouraging.。
So through the story of Joseph, through his own waiting,。
we're encouraged to draw near, to talk to God, to read his word.。
But we're also encouraged to make ourselves available to serve others,。
because when we do that, God encourages us.。
He gives us a different perspective than we have.。
And so that's how God works in our lives, how he moves.。
It's amazing. He is so good.。
Now, I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
And I know that some of you here--。
Oh, I almost threw this thing down on the ground.。
I know that some of you here, you find yourself in this period of waiting,。
and some of you are--actually, you're still exploring faith.。
Like, you know, I'm not so sure about Jesus.。
Maybe your spouse brings you. Maybe you come because of your friends.。
Maybe you're on this journey.。
And I--you know, experiencing--。
having Jesus with you in the waiting, for me, makes all the difference.。
I really don't know how you wait without Jesus,。
you know, without knowing his presence, without knowing his love,。
without knowing his care, without experiencing him speak to you and meet you。
and the difficulty and challenge that's going on.。
So I want to encourage you, actually, to join the Alpha.。
It's starting March 25th, the English one, 7.30 to 9.30.。
And I want to encourage you to do that.。
Maybe you've been thinking about this for a while, but you never do it.。
I might not know--you know, I could invite Brian,。
but maybe I don't know who you are.。
And I just want to encourage you, now is the time. Why wait?。
Just explore it for yourself. Make up your own mind.。
Come and sign up for that.。
And if you don't like it, honestly, you don't have to continue coming.。
Just come, and if you don't like it, you step away.。
But I believe that when you do and when you pray like the lady did,。
you know, that Jesus will reveal himself to you.。
And he is the one who loves you, who is for you,。
and who will walk with you through whatever challenge that you're going through.。
And walking with Jesus will make all the difference.。
You know, will make all the difference.。
But I also know that many of us here are Christians, and we are followers of Jesus,。
and we're still in this period of waiting.。
We still go through difficult things, you know, whatever that might be.。
You know, maybe it's a health-related thing, maybe it's a relationship thing,。
maybe it's a finance thing, you know, whatever else.。
And I actually just want to encourage you right now to--。
we're going to just give a moment, you know, for you to draw near.。
You can do that on your own. You can turn to somebody next to you,。
somebody you came with, and just pray together or pray on your own.。
Just pour out your heart to God and talk to him about this waiting season that you're in.。
And then in a minute or so, I'm going to come back and I'm going to pray over us.。
So let's just take this moment to pray.。
I want to invite everyone to stand.。
And if you--you know, you're in this waiting period,。
you're needing this breakthrough from Jesus in your life,。
I just want to encourage you to just stretch out your hands just as a sign,。
"Jesus, I need you. Just come meet me."。
And I want to just pray over you.。
Jesus, I thank you so much that you love every single person here.。
I thank you that you are the one who is with us.。
Holy Spirit, I pray right now that you will make your presence known to everyone。
who is going through difficult and challenging circumstances,。
that you make your presence known, that they know you are with them.。
They are not alone. You love them.。
And Lord, I also pray that you would raise faith,。
that you would raise hope in you,。
that you're the God who is faithful to his promise,。
that anyone who trusts in you will not put them to shame.。
And so, Jesus, I pray that you strengthen my brothers and my sisters。
to hold on to you in this challenging season.。
I pray that you meet them. I also pray that you provide for them.。
I pray that you see them through.。
Lord, I also want to pray for community.。
I want to pray that you place people around my brothers and sisters。
to walk with, to share things with, that they know they are not alone.。
There is others praying with them, encouraging them, Lord.。
So I pray that you lift up, that you encourage my brothers and sisters.。
And Holy Spirit, I just pray right now that you fill everyone with your presence, Lord.。
For some of us, our tank's been empty.。
So Holy Spirit, will you right now fill your people with your presence?。
Thank you.。
And so we entrust all that is going on to you, knowing that you are good,。
and that you are with us, and that you will see us through.。
I pray this in your name, Jesus. Amen.。
(light switch clicks)。
