So a few days ago I was in a Chinese restaurant and I had the most exuberant waiter you could。
ever imagine.。
Every time I ordered anything his reply was, "Why not?"。
Which I thought was quite funny.。
"Can I have a Coke?"。
"Why not?"。
"I'd like some more fried rice, please."。
"Why not?"。
"Where's the bathroom?"。
"Why not?"。
But he was so full of life and literally his answer to everything was, "Why not?"。
With a big smile on his face.。
As we were just worshipping and singing those words, "I magnify you, Lord."。
And as I think about the start of this new year of the rabbit, the first day of the Chinese。
New Year, I hear God leaning over you and saying, "Why not?"。
Why not this year?。
Why not in this moment?。
Why not those dreams that you've held on your hearts for so long?。
Why not that thing that you were wanting to start, maybe a business or an idea?。
I feel like we're stepping into a season of harvest.。
I feel like we're stepping into a season of opportunity.。
And I feel like the Holy Spirit is saying over the vine, "Why not?"。
We're planting a church this year in Yuen Long at a time when the economy is not great,。
it's an expensive thing to do.。
And God says, "Why not?"。
Whatever it is that's going on in your heart and your life right now where there are challenges。
for you or there's even just a sense of fear of holding back, a sense of like, "I don't。
know, it's a risk.。
I feel like I'm going to take a risk."。
And I feel like the Lord is just wanting to release you from fear, release you from anxiety,。
and say that this year is a year of opportunity for you.。
It doesn't mean, it's very important, it doesn't mean that everything's going to work out perfectly.。
The Christian life is not a life where God is a Santa Claus who waves a magic wand and。
suddenly our lives are perfect.。
If you've been a Christian for a long time, you'll know that that's not the way it works.。
But we have a God who meets us in the highs and the lows.。
We have a God who says, "Forget the former things, for a new thing is at work.。
And I will announce it to you before you see it spring up."。
That's that passage I read to us just before we started worshiping.。
I will announce it to you before it springs up.。
The why not attitude is one where God comes and announces things to us before he has actually。
done them.。
This is your year.。
This is going to happen.。
This is going to take place.。
Have some courage.。
Take some risk.。
Step out in faith.。
I've got you.。
Why not?。
If you'd like to receive just a little bit of that today, I wonder if you just open your。
hands.。
I want to pray for us.。
Father, I thank you so much for the men and women in this room, for the children here,。
for young and old alike.。
We thank you for the start of this new year, a year of this beautiful idea of this longevity。
and peace and tranquility and hope.。
Lord, I believe that this is a year of opportunity for people in this room and those watching。
online right now.。
I believe this is a why not kind of year.。
And Lord, I pray the same exuberance I had from that waiter would be the same exuberance。
that they sense the Spirit of God working in their lives this year.。
Saying hey, step out in faith.。
Take that step of courage.。
Why not?。
Why not?。
Why not?。
I'm your God.。
I'm with you and I am for you.。
Nothing can be against you.。
And so Lord, I pray for those in this room where they're in a bit of a tough spot, where。
things are a bit hard right now.。
Lord, I want to pray that your Spirit of hope would come.。
I pray that today they would be able to lift their eyes a little bit higher to where their。
hope comes from.。
And Lord, for those of us in this room that are longing for new things, maybe those of。
us in this room who are sensing a passion for something but not sure what the first。
step is, sensing a calling out of God but not sure how to activate that in their lives.。
So Lord, I pray that they would feel the wind of your Spirit moving them forward today,。
Lord.。
And Father, we thank you that at the beginning of a new year, we can forget the former things,。
that we can step into this hope that you have provided for us.。
And Lord, I want to pray for everyone here that 2023 would be a year where you speak。
things over them before they spring up.。
That they would have the courage to do things because you have spoken over them, even before。
they've seen the impact of that in the physical.。
That they would know that God is saying something to them in a spiritual that would actually。
enliven their hearts to take whatever step it is that needs to be taken in the physical.。
Lord, we thank you that you're like that.。
And Lord, we just commit our hearts to this.。
For you love this city of Hong Kong and you, Lord, are for this city, Lord.。
Fill us with hope, with joy, and may this year be a year of the why not.。
And we thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says amen.。
Can we thank the worship team because they're amazing and we love them and they're awesome。
and they're dressed in red.。
As you sit down, why don't you say hi to someone?。
Say, "Hey, wow, nice to meet you.。
Who are you?。
I don't know you.。
You seem like a nice person.。
Be friendly.。
So good."。
Well, Sunday at Firelock, again, it's so great to be with you guys here on Chinese New Year,。
the actual first day of Chinese New Year.。
If you've been fasting, we break our fast today, which is a wonderful thing.。
And we are so glad you're here.。
And I'm excited because we're doing a one-off message today as we celebrate the reality。
of Chinese New Year.。
And the chairman of our elders, Sydney Yip, is coming.。
Can we put our hands together for Sydney?。
I just want you to know how good-looking Sydney and I are today, wearing matching outfits。
that we did not coordinate, did we?。
I don't know.。
We...。
Coordinated in spirit.。
Coordinated in spirit.。
That is absolutely right.。
Beautiful thing.。
Would you stretch out your hands?。
We're going to pray for Sydney.。
Father, thank you for this man.。
Lord, I have the rare privilege of seeing this man lead publicly like he will do today,。
but more often lead privately, behind the scenes as the chairman of our eldership, serving。
this church faithfully, putting in hours that many people don't know about, sacrificing,。
doing the hard meetings as well as the good ones.。
Lord, I really honor this man of faith.。
And Father, I pray that as he opens up this passage, which really speaks a lot about his。
own experience, Lord, that you would open our hearts.。
Lord, we don't want the seed of your Word to fall on hardened ground.。
So here at the start of this new year, would you just come and open our hearts to you.。
And we thank you for this, in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, "Amen."。
Amen.。
Thank you, Andrew.。
When Jesus was about to ascend to heaven, he spoke about the coming kingdom.。
So what he said was, "It is not for you to know the time or seasons that the Father has。
fixed by his own authority."。
So happy Chinese New Year once again.。
I believe many of you are unprepared as much as I was in the transition of Christmas to。
New Year, and now it's Chinese New Year.。
So it's a lot got to do with timing, and especially for the Chinese New Year.。
Even for the flowers that we bought for the Chinese New Year, you need the timing, and。
you need the timing right.。
So like a daffodil that we have nicely here, well, you have to buy it at the right time.。
You have to trim it.。
You have to warm it.。
You have to shine it.。
And then along the way, you notice that, well, fragrance is coming.。
The bud of the flower is there.。
And then, well, for all you know, along the way, there are more blossoms and more fragrance.。
And well, the best is if it opens up in full blossom on a New Year's Day.。
So that's about season.。
As much as flowers is for seasons, we all go through different seasons in life.。
So I would like to take this opportunity to share something about times and seasons on。
this very special day.。
Well, I guess I am privileged, and I'm seasoned enough in terms of age, to reflect on this。
subject.。
I want to start by sharing a very short story by none other than Toh Kien.。
Well, he was in a kind of impasse, basically was stuck while writing up his masterpiece,。
The Lord of the Rings.。
So he was very worried and concerned that he won't be able to finish the piece.。
So the title is Leaf by Nego.。
So Nego is an artist.。
He's a painter.。
He had this vision of drawing a really, really beautiful tree at the countryside.。
So he started with drawing a leaf.。
He spent a lot of time making sure that that very leaf was really great, beautiful, magnificent.。
But he was also very stuck.。
He had a lot of mundane that he needed to deal with.。
And to add on to all this, his neighbor by the name of Parrish always sought for his。
help at unwarranted time.。
And this Parrish wife even fell sick needing the care of Nego.。
And also on Nego's heart, he has some concerns because he has a journey that he needs to。
make, which he was really reluctant to go forth.。
Well, he fell sick after taking care of Parrish's wife, and he departed.。
So all that he was left was that canvas of one small leaf.。
Well, it was beautiful, but after the storm that ruined his house, that leaf was finally。
retrieved to be put up in a museum, where sadly, very few people really visited.。
Now as Nego journeyed on, he arrived at the countryside.。
And lo and behold, he saw the very tree that he had envisaged to paint and draw.。
So there stood the magnificent tree in the countryside.。
And he even met his neighbor, Parrish.。
And there he find much comfort.。
So after writing this short story, Tolkien find his own comfort.。
He was able to gather further strength to finish his masterpiece, Lord of the Rings.。
I find much comfort in reading this story.。
The thing is, well, what we are doing on earth, which could be a very, very small representation。
of the magnificence, the tree, the countryside that God had ordained for us, we may be representing。
or doing a small token to appreciate or to reflect on the glory of the things that God。
had in mind and will future be fulfilled in due time.。
What we did on earth had a bearing even in the heavenly.。
Now do you remember when Jesus resurrected from death, he showed his lone scar to Thomas.。
So what was inflected on earth had a heavenly bearing.。
So as a surgeon, I was always reminded, whatever wound that I inflect on my patients, that。
would leave a scar and the scar would last a real long time.。
So whatever we did, there is a heavenly bearing.。
Our earthly work could amount to the heavenly good.。
What was done on earth indeed carries a marking all the way to the heavens.。
Our earthly work could amount to heavenly good.。
By the way, while it could be incidental, it could be divine.。
My family name is none other than Yip.。
So whenever I was greeted in the corridor, in the ward, in the OR, while I was actually。
reminded that, well, what I was doing is to paint my leaf and the leaf should bring glory。
to God, I spent much time going through my half-time transition.。
That process included relocation back to Singapore from, I mean, from Singapore to Hong Kong。
to work in an academic medical center.。
I felt it was God's hands guiding.。
And about the time of the finish of my contract, I made some renewed commitments to God and。
to myself that I would strive even better in my career, in my vocation.。
But then I was not offered a new contract.。
That was my winter season.。
My personal ambition to be the best in my field, to build up the strongest team, somehow。
vanished.。
Now, today, I want to share with you how this turning around season will show that God has。
purposefully put changing seasons in a year to remind us of the changing seasons in life.。
Now, this few weeks, we have been dwelling on Isaiah, which really talks about how God。
bring new things in the world in critical moments of history.。
Now I shall refer to yet another prophet, Jeremiah.。
Jeremiah wrote at around time of Jerusalem's fall.。
And then from there, we'll reflect on the turning points in history as well as in life.。
Now as mentioned, Jeremiah was writing at around the time of the fall of Jerusalem to。
Babylon.。
Yet, he was pointing forward to the new covenant.。
After 70 years of exile, that a new covenant of God will be fulfilled, and he was writing。
to the exiles.。
Now, according to some scholars, Jerusalem was actually besieged in the winter times.。
And winter, even in the Middle East, in Israel, could be tough, it could be cold, it's rainy,。
and it could be most challenging for the besieged city.。
And somehow, yet, the most familiar verse we have in Jeremiah is probably chapter 29,。
verse 11.。
"For I know the plans I have for you, plans to prosper you and not to harm you, and plans。
to give you a hope and a future."。
Wow, do we knowing or unknowingly take the verses outside of its context?。
We always embrace the new hope.。
And yet, while Jeremiah was writing, it was in a season of dark winter.。
How are these promises going to sink into their real world at that point in time?。
And furthermore, Jeremiah actually, against all conventional wisdom, he recognized a different。
reality and proceeded to purchase a piece of land when the city was besieged.。
So it was recorded that he bought a piece of field at Annabas from his cousin and weighed。
out for him 70 shekels of silver.。
He signed and sealed the deed, had it witnessed, and weighed out on the silver of the scales.。
But at that point, the piece of land is already under Babylon's control.。
And it seems an act of folly to purchase a property that would be lost forever.。
Yet, Jeremiah sees a different reality.。
The word of the Lord, he bought the property, have it witnessed, and went through all the。
needed legal deals.。
Jeremiah was purchasing a piece of land as an act of prophecy.。
Now there is tremendous theology significance attached to land.。
Land is a promise and a gift from God, Yahweh, to both Abraham and the entire Israel nation.。
And now the Lord is declaring via Jeremiah that while everything seems hopeless, hope。
begins to be a strength of all.。
Shall we call this hope against all odds?。
In fact, Jeremiah further on says on behalf of God that he will surely gather them from。
all the lands.。
He will bring them back to this place and let them live in safety.。
They will be my people and I will be their God.。
How should we understand God's promises and timing of fulfillment via the lands of changing。
seasons?。
That indeed, all things are made beautiful in His time.。
As we reflect on the winter season and the spring seasons, we appreciate even more the。
significance of the turning of seasons.。
So let's start with winter.。
Well winter here is pretty moderate.。
But when you think of winter, you think of your skiing trip in Japan.。
That does not count as holiday.。
Well but in real natural life, winter is a season of decline.。
The days grow shorter, the lights are dimmer, summer's abundance and winter's colors began。
to fade.。
Everything decayed and now there's a monocony, a sense of impending loss sets in.。
Well I must confess I'm a very sentimental person and I am very pessimistic overall.。
I tend to be drawn deeply by the prospect of death rather than lifted by the hope of。
new life.。
In fact, death victory can sometimes seem supreme.。
It was only last month, I mean last March, that we witnessed the horrendous hay walk。
that was inflected on the local population including the elderly.。
How shall we come out of this downward spiral?。
Now in the Midwest, in US, where I spent some of my time doing my training, newcomers were。
given this piece of advice during the winter time.。
The winters will drive you crazy until you learn to get out into them.。
So there the people would buy decent clothing, warm, so that they can get outdoors and avoid。
the cabin fever that otherwise will arise if they continue to huddle fearfully by the。
fire during the hot frozen winters.。
Essentially, we learned that a daily walk into the winter world would fortify the spirit。
within us by taking us boldly to the very heart of the season.。
Well the coldest winter that I ever experienced was when I did my medical student internship。
in Toronto.。
So where, while I was living in Chinatown as a poor medical student, I have to walk。
about 20, 30 minutes all the way to Toronto General Hospital and Sick Kids Children's。
Hospital for some of you who know the place.。
So in a deep winter, the cleaners would prepare the road at around 5, 5.30, clean up the road,。
but they pile up all the snow to the pedestrian walk.。
So I would be literally walking through four or five feet of snow all piled up so that。
I can reach the hospital.。
But there's no point waiting for the bus because you will get frozen before the bus arrives.。
But the good thing about this daily walk at 6 o'clock when light is just beginning to。
dawn is it is exactly that you walk into the winter, you train, you fortify your spirit.。
And I was actually thankful because that daily walk helped me consolidate my desire to be。
trained as a surgeon, to be resilient.。
Well but at the same time, God is gracious.。
It can be really cold.。
It could be minus 20 or minus 30 in Toronto.。
So for the coldest winter day that year, I was actually on duty in the hospital.。
So what happens is I'm warm, I'm safe, and I don't have to wake up early next morning。
to walk that walk through the winter.。
While a lot of my seniors and other staff could not make it because the snowfall had。
blocked all the major highways.。
So I really, really impressed my boss when I appear early in the morning before everybody。
else.。
While winter, other than reminding us that there are times of dormancy and deep rest,。
and they're essential to all living things, we are also to acknowledge that ultimately。
in those winters, God is our refuge.。
The past years have been a long winter for many of us in this congregation.。
In fact, our inner winters can take many forms.。
Failure, losses, depression, separation from family, or even death.。
But every one of them yields the same advice.。
The winters will drive us crazy until we learn to get out into them.。
Until we enter boldly into the fears that we most want to avoid, those fears will dominate。
our lives.。
But when we walk boldly and directly into them, of course protected by the warmth from。
the community of your faith community, and the guidance from the Holy Spirit, we can。
learn what winter got to teach us.。
Then we discover once again the cycle of seasons is trustworthy and life-giving, even in the。
most dismaying season of all.。
That I got the diagnosis of leukemia was winter to me.。
What I chose to start treatment was my walking into the winters.。
Well as I've shared, I'm easily fixated on surface appearances, on the decline of meaning,。
the decay of relationships, the death of a work, an ambition.。
And yet as I look more deeply, I can see that there are possibilities being planted to bear。
fruit in some seasons yet to come.。
Even Jeremiah shared in lamentation, "Because of the lost great love, we are not consumed.。
For my compassions never fail.。
They are new every morning."。
Great is your faithfulness.。
Yeah, indeed great is God's faithfulness.。
So in retrospect, I can see that in my own life, I could not see the things that I could。
not see at that particular time point.。
How the job that I lost, that left me in dismay, actually helped me find work that I really。
needed to do.。
How the road closure turned me towards terrain that would otherwise not travel.。
How losses that I feel so irredeemable forced me to find new meanings.。
On the surface, it may seem that life was lessening, but silently and lavishly, the。
seeds of new life were always being sown.。
As I moved into private practice, I actually learned this verse all over again, "Forget。
the former things, embrace the new."。
I could be practicing in a different setting, but I can still offer my best for the very。
patients that God entrusted us.。
And I'm confident and glad to say the department also moved into even higher grounds.。
Now new opportunity arise also as I roll into seminary studies as a part-time old student.。
I guess I was the oldest in the class.。
Anyway, it was a dream come true.。
A dream that I turned down some 35 years ago when I had my first calling to enter into。
seminary studies.。
So it's a dream come true and I was given a second chance.。
Now the mere joy of knowing, of knowing him better and the opportunity to share my limited。
understanding are by themselves a tremendous blessing for me.。
Even Jeremiah shared, "They will come and shout for joy on the heights of Zion.。
They will rejoice in the bounty of the Lord, the grain, the olives, and the new wine.。
They will be like a well-watered garden and they will sorrow no more."。
Even more importantly, it's not about renewed material blessings.。
Jeremiah is talking about a new heart, a new heart for the new season.。
This is the covenant I will make, says the Lord.。
I will put new laws in their minds and write it in their hearts.。
I will be their God and they will be my people.。
And you know, all these promises are laid at the harsh winter for the besieged Israelites.。
Yet they are fulfilled in due time.。
If not for the war, the winter is kind of a preparatory season for spring.。
It's rainy and it prepares the land.。
Even the Song of Songs talked about this.。
"See, the winter is past.。
The rains are over and gone.。
Flowers appear on the earth.。
The season of singing has come.。
The calling of those is heard in our land."。
A new song.。
Well, spring comes slowly and tentatively, but it grows with a tenacity.。
I still remember that year while myself and the whole family was doing my training in。
St. Louis.。
That winter creeps very much into April and we were, as a family, a little bit depressed。
with the long winter.。
So as I tried to bring my kids to venture out a little bit, one odd day we suddenly。
realized that they are the smallest, the most tender shoots, began to find their way.。
They have insisted to have their way coming out through grounds that once was deemed barren.。
Those very small sprouts of life, of green leaves, are always a glimpse, a high binger。
of hope.。
And from those very, very small beginnings, hope grows at a geometric rate.。
The days get longer, the winds get warmer, and the world grows green again.。
As I shared early on while I studied in the seminary, in the midst of my own medical condition,。
the fallout of my business partnership, and of course, the COVID season, I was wondering。
what I studied, would it bear fruits at all?。
But very interestingly and paradoxically, because of the social distancing measures,。
we birthed this online teaching ministry.。
So together with quite a few other committed fellow brothers and sisters, we actually began。
a study course called Tree of Life Discipleship Program.。
So we ran modules covering areas of calling, of faith at work, of relationship, of leadership,。
and of restoration.。
We were blessed to have the privilege to share the word with people from within and from。
outside of Bain, and also beyond Hong Kong.。
Now still in our small lives, in our own lives, even as our winters transit into spring, we。
sometimes find it hard to credit the small gleams of hope of larger life to come.。
We sometimes find it hard to find hope until we find that the outcome is secure.。
So therefore spring, spring teaches us to look carefully, really carefully for the green。
stems of possibilities, for the intuition that may turn into a larger insight, for the。
touch that will unfreeze a frozen relationship, especially for families who are broken apart。
physically, geographically, or emotionally, for the strangest act of kindness that will。
make the world seem more hospitable again all over.。
We used to have the blessing of living in a house in the rural area for a season, and。
Vivian loved to tend to the garden.。
The garden was filled with undergrowth, with trees, fruits, in the tiny meadow with flowers。
and grasses.。
And sometimes looking beyond the spring, we can almost envisage the next season to be。
a steady state of plenty, of green, of muchness.。
Of course we understand that nature does not necessarily always produce abundance.。
Even in Israel, there were times that flood or drought destroyed crops and threatened。
the lives and the livelihood of those who worked the fields.。
But nature normally takes us through a reliable cycle of scarcity and then abundance, in which。
times of deprivation actually foreshadows an eventual return to the bountiful fields.。
That is very biblical to see that kind of seasons in life.。
Be glad, people of Zion.。
Rejoice in the Lord your God, for he has given you the autumn rains because he is faithful.。
He sends you abundant showers, both autumn and spring rains, as before.。
The threshing floors will be filled with grain.。
The vats will overflow new wine, new oil, new wine, new oil.。
So Joel was actually famous for his locust prophecy.。
But then when we realize the new season that we are in, then we can be assured, we can。
be assured that at his time, we will make up for the years of the locust.。
We will make up for the years of the loss, and we shall eat our field of good food.。
We shall be full of praise to God, as we know without question that he is in the sake of。
life with us.。
He is in the sake of life with us.。
Well, to some extent, we invest in a church plan in such a difficult social economic situation.。
And this season is actually a resemblance of Jeremiah's purchasing a piece of land when。
Jerusalem was besieged.。
Yet, as a church body, we are also embracing that in seasons of life, at his time, he will。
breathe new life into us and into the city.。
And in days to come, we shall bear fruits.。
You may be in a season of decline or dormancy, as in winter, or you are picking up new hope,。
as in spring.。
But remember that our times is in his hands.。
Later on, we'll have some prayer time together that will speak life into the new seasons.。
Suffix to know that the Asian Greeks has two different words for the very concept of time,。
chronos and kairos.。
The word chronos, or some other words that we are familiar with, chronology, chronicles,。
the word chronos refers to measured ticking time, quantitative time.。
Chronos is the forward propelling time that we measure with clocks, with watches.。
But time does not end there.。
The Greek word for time can also be kairos.。
Chronos time is where there is a divine timing, or the suitable moments where God intervenes,。
as if he's pressing a reboot button for us.。
So here we are, we learn quite a bit of Greek these days.。
In the past week, we learned kairos.。
God is doing a kairos, new thing, a new thing right now that has never happened before.。
Now we learn kairos.。
God does a kairos thing in a kairos time.。
He does a new thing in a new divine appointed time.。
Well, of course, we now know that he's turning into spring, as in the chronos of time.。
But whatever season of life you may feel you are in, God can interject and change your。
course.。
That is his kairos moment.。
But even more importantly, let's seize that kairos moment, the divine time that God has。
ordained to live out what God has appointed us to do.。
Tolkien says, "We all have to decide what to do with the time that is given us."。
We all have to decide what to do with the time given us.。
I had the privilege of submitting some of my homework assignments to Dr. and Reverend。
Philip Young, who is by himself a medical doctor, but he also later changed tracks to。
become lecturer in the China Graduate School of Theology.。
He had always been a beloved teacher, well-known in the local scene for the Word of God in。
Old Testament as well as marketplace theology.。
He was writing these comments to me well before he himself was diagnosed in aggressive cancer.。
So I have the privilege to share some of his thoughts.。
It is not easy to face the cruel reality of death and the uncertainties of life.。
How true it is that life is not in our own hands, but more importantly, it's not in the。
hands of fate either, but it is in our God, our creator.。
And in him, we do have the hope, not only of the eternal life after death, but also。
in the sovereign God who will work out his purposes in the given time of our life on。
earth.。
For this reason, we, myself included, I will have nothing to lose or to fear.。
Everything I ever had is from him, and he will fulfill his goodwill in and through my。
life, our lives.。
Listen and attend to whatever burden God puts in your heart, in our hearts, and live it。
out to the best of our abilities.。
It is the quality, not the quantity, that matters in the end.。
And anything done for the Lord's sake has eternal meaning and significance.。
Remember Jesus' scar.。
Remember the leaf by a nickel.。
It represents a glorious tree in a magnificent countryside.。
I believe that the most important thing in life is relationship with God, with people。
around us, and with ourselves.。
And we are to cherish these gifts and make them a special offering to our creator God。
with gratitude and love.。
This is what life is all about.。
While I still struggle often as much as Nicol did, wondering whether the trivial things。
that I did ever matter.。
But we are also encouraged to know that while we may only be drawing a very small leaf of。
that gigantic tree, it is a miniature representation of his enormous good.。
And in seasons and at the right time, he will bring our seed of faithful work to full fruition.。
Can I invite all of us to stand?。
It's important that at the turn of season that we commit ourselves new hope, which really。
comes from the Lord.。
I also heard from some sharing from other fellow members that that new hope should also。
include a renewed commitment and relationship in the family.。
So I'm hoping that indeed we take this opportunity that you gather in small groups of two or。
three, that you pray and speak into that new hope that God has installed for you.。
So pray for the new hope and pray for renewed family commitments if you do have a family.。
So shall we spend the next two or three minutes praying for each other before we have corporate。
prayers and closures?。
For those young kids that are brought together to St. Louis, who saw how winter transited。
into spring as they saw all the new sprouts of leaves.。
Now they are grown up and we're entering into a new relationship.。
So new hope for the new season for me is also renewed relationship with them as adults.。
So I want to say a prayer on behalf of this congregation together with all of us into。
our families.。
Dear Lord, we just want to thank you as we turn into new season, help us seize the Kairos。
moment.。
Lord, we thank you that you put us into different families surrounded by loved ones.。
And regardless of the former, of the past, of how sometimes, somehow our relationships。
are frozen, are broken, Lord, we ask for your renewal in a new season, in a new season that。
we find renewal and restoration of those loving relationship in family, in community, and。
even in the society.。
We thank you because in you we find that new hope.。
And we know there is this divine moment that you intervene in our lives.。
In Jesus name, amen, amen.。
