In Jesus' name, everyone says, Amen.。
Amen.。
Why don't you have a seat.。
If you're new to the Vine, my name is Andrew.。
I'm one of the pastors here.。
We're so glad you're with us.。
And you know, oftentimes when I get into the pulpit, I'll share with you that I'm super。
excited about what I'm going to share today.。
But it actually is really true today.。
I'm really super excited about what we're going to be doing today and in the weeks ahead.。
We start a brand new sermon series today, and it's really one that I feel like I've。
been carrying for some time.。
And so it's always a joy for me to be able to carry something in my spirit on behalf。
of us for a season and then be able to come in and just bring what it is that the Lord。
wants to say to us.。
And so I'm excited to do that here this afternoon.。
I want to teach over the next four weeks on the topic of personal transformation.。
Personal transformation.。
And I don't know how you felt as you've come into church this afternoon.。
Perhaps some of you come in here full of life, full of excitement, full of joy.。
Perhaps some of you come in and things are hard at the moment.。
You've been wrestling with stuff.。
There's things going on that are quite serious for you, whether you're full of life right。
now or whether you feel like you're sort of on the edge at the moment.。
The weight of Scripture would say this.。
The weight of Scripture would say that one of the primary purposes of the ministry of。
Jesus is to meet us where we're at and to move us towards becoming more like him.。
This is really the heart of personal transformation.。
The Lord is not interested in trying to help you to, I don't know, just be a nicer person。
or to help you to be the best person at workplace that you can be.。
What the Lord wants to do in your life is transform it so that you'd become more and。
more like him, so that you'd reflect more and more of his nature and his heart so that。
you would be his hands and feet to a broken world around you.。
The transformation that the Lord is looking to do in your life is not just to kind of。
polish up some of your rough edges.。
It is to transform us into his people, his people that are released by this great commission。
to go into all the world with this hope that we can disciple the nations, that we can see。
people baptized, immersed, the Greek word immersed in the name of the Father, the Son。
and the Holy Spirit.。
And that people would know that he is with them now until the ends of the age.。
So however you come in today, you come in because the heart of the Father and the purpose。
of the Spirit and the primary focus of Jesus is that you would become more like Christ,。
that you would mature to come as Paul would write in Ephesians 4, to the wholeness of。
the wholeness of Christ.。
What a glorious picture it is that we get to grow in Christ Jesus together.。
And so what that means is that you have not come to church this afternoon for an event.。
You haven't come here just to connect to something.。
You've come here because there's something in your life that the Lord wants to touch,。
wants to liberate, wants to maybe heal in you, wants to restore.。
That's his heart to meet you where you are right now in whatever is going on and to bring。
you to that person that he longs you to be.。
In many ways, this is really the very heart of the season that we're in here as a church.。
Back in the first Sunday of March on Vision Sunday, I released to us what we sense as。
the senior leadership here is the whole heart of God for us as a community this year.。
And it's this idea of being moved into uncharted territory.。
That's the phrase that we've been using a lot over this year.。
And really the heart of the uncharted territory that God has for us as the bind is to take。
us from a place that we know to a place that we don't know.。
The whole definition of something that is uncharted means that we've never been there。
before, that there is no map or strategy or resource available to understand that place.。
We've never been there.。
We've never gone there.。
There's nothing we can rely on in that place other than God, because it's completely out。
of our comfort zone.。
And when the Lord brings to a church community that I'm going to move you into a place where。
I'm going to take you out of your comfort zone and place you in a place where you've。
never been before, that has something to say with the people that we are.。
That is something to say about the transformation that he longs to do inside of us.。
And as we head into the second half of our year here, and as we kind of unpack a little。
bit deeper what this uncharted season is all about, I believe it's got something to say。
about what's going on in your life right now.。
Something to say about this uncharted place that the Lord wants to take you.。
I believe that if you open your heart over the next four weeks, as we teach around this。
topic, there are going to be some keys for you that will bring you into a place where。
you have never been in your relationship with Jesus before.。
A place where you have never been in the relationships around you before.。
A place where you've never been in the operation of your gifts before.。
That's what the Lord wants to do.。
Take you to a place where you have never been before so you can shine for his glory in the。
world like never before.。
Is everybody okay?。
Is everybody okay?。
Well on Vision Sunday, I read to us a word that I sensed that the Lord had given me as。
I was on the Camino de Santiago last year, the walk across Spain during my sabbatical.。
And during that time I was praying for us as a church one day and I felt this kind of。
download of God's heart for us.。
And I read this to us back on that Sunday but I wanted to read it again to us.。
I wrote it down as I was walking on this very piece of paper here.。
And I want to read this because this really captures the heart of the uncharted season。
we're in but also captures the heart of every person on a journey of personal transformation.。
It says this, "I'm about to move," this is God speaking to us, "I'm about to move the。
vine into uncharted territory.。
For I desire to take you to places that you have never been to stretch you beyond what。
you're currently comfortable with.。
These are uncharted territories and they're necessary for your faith and my work.。
You do not have the strategy, resources, gift or wisdom for what is coming but that is not。
the issue.。
All you need to begin is faith and courage."。
I believe that the greatest moments of your personal transformation are just ahead of。
you and all you need, you don't need the road map, you don't need all the resources, you。
don't even know what the Lord is about to do.。
All you need right at the start is faith and courage.。
And I want to just before anything just pray that into us as a church.。
I've been doing this at each of our services, I want to do it to you.。
Lord, I want to pray over each person in this room that you are seeking and longing to make。
into the very people that you long for them to be.。
I want to pray faith and courage in the name of Jesus.。
Faith to maybe look at some things in their lives that they are desperately in need of。
changing.。
Courage to trust that you have their best interest at heart.。
Faith and courage to do the work that you might be calling them to do to bring their。
life more aligned with your kingdom.。
Lord, I pray that you would seep this faith and courage inside of us by your spirit this。
afternoon and may it be for your glory in Jesus name.。
Amen.。
Let me carry on.。
This is about complete trust in me.。
What I will give you though is a burden.。
I will give you a new heart.。
I will make you understand or sorry, make you unsatisfied for the here and now.。
I will place my hand upon you and stir up the joy of the pursuit of me.。
I am not calling you to a vision with knowledge of all that is ahead.。
No, this is uncharted territory.。
What I'm calling you to is a value, the value of complete and total surrender, a holy dissatisfaction。
in the way things have been and a passionate longing for the discovery of more.。
And then I wrote in brackets on the piece of paper, "Preach this sometime."。
But that really is a summary of the heart of personal transformation.。
This holy dissatisfaction for how things are and a longing for the discovery of more.。
The recognition that what we need is not a road map and some strategies and programs,。
but a greater trust and faith and courage in the Lord so that we might receive a new。
heart, that He would place a burden inside of us that we're not satisfied for the here。
and now.。
We're not satisfied for how we've always been.。
We're not satisfied for the way in which it seems that the Lord is at work in our city,。
but we're pressing in.。
We're calling out.。
We want to be in the uncharted.。
We want to be in a place where we've never been before with a burden to say a holy dissatisfaction。
in what is happening here and a longing for the pursuit of more in my life.。
I've been praying this exact passion for us as a church since Vision Sunday over the last。
six months.。
I've been kind of praying and just bringing this in my spirit for you.。
And as I've been doing so, I was led by the Lord about four months ago to the book of。
Ezra in the Old Testament.。
Now, I don't know if you've ever read the book of Ezra before.。
I'm not sure if you've ever heard anyone preach from the book of Ezra before, but the book。
of Ezra sits in one of the most critical turning points of Israel's history.。
In fact, it's one of the books that chronicles one of the most uncharted moments of their。
history.。
It talks about the time where God releases his people from their 70 years of captivity。
in Babylon and brings them back to Jerusalem, a city that has been destroyed and desolated。
by the Babylonians some 70 years before.。
The book of Ezra chronicles that time of that movement between the exile in Babylon back。
to Jerusalem.。
And as I was reading this sense of what the Lord has on his heart for us, there were so。
many things that were kind of moving inside of me as I was seeing this picture of God's。
people in an uncharted time doing something fresh and new out of the rubble of the old.。
Now to help you to understand this, I need to give you a bit of history and context to。
the book of Ezra.。
So why don't we just start there briefly.。
So about 800 years before the birth of Jesus, Israel at that time was a confederacy of 12。
tribes.。
And those 12 tribes were united around judges who were their leaders.。
So around about 800 years before Christ, one of the judges at the time, the elders of the。
12 tribes came to that judge Samuel and said, "We don't want other judges to lead us in。
the future.。
We want to become a kingdom.。
We want to become a monarchy.。
We want you to establish a king to rule us."。
And the reason why Israel wanted that is they looked at the other nations around them and。
they saw all these nations that had kings and queens and they decided that that was。
the best thing for them.。
Now God in his mercy and in his grace and compassion agreed to do that.。
And so the first king was established Saul and then after Saul, the next king, David.。
But what the Jewish people didn't understand, what the Israelites did not understand at。
that time is when they were 12 tribe confederacy, the judges could come from any of those 12。
tribes.。
But as soon as they became a kingship with a monarchy, that was then about the bloodline。
of the family who were the monarchs.。
So David as the archetype king, his bloodline was now going to be who the king would be。
to rise up.。
Not surprisingly, even though they didn't realize this at the time, they soon discovered。
the people of Israel that not everybody liked the fact that it would be David's bloodline。
that would bring the next king and they rebelled against it.。
About 800 years before Christ's birth, the kingdom split into two.。
Ten of the tribes went up north to the area that we kind of understand as the West Bank。
all the way up to southern Lebanon today.。
In that area, the ten tribes settled themselves there.。
They left Jerusalem, they went up north and annoyingly and confusingly when you're reading。
the Old Testament, they renamed themselves Israel.。
So there was Israel before the 12 tribes, then they split, ten up top, two in the south.。
The ten at the top renamed themselves Israel and that becomes who they are.。
So when you're reading the books of Ezra and Nehemiah and Zechariah and Jeremiah and the。
latter half of Isaiah, when they mention Israel, they're not talking about all 12 tribes, they're。
talking about those ten tribes that are north.。
The two tribes that remain in Jerusalem, that's Benjamin and Judah, they take on the name。
Judah.。
So when you read in the Old Testament about Judah as a nation, those were the two tribes。
that remained in Jerusalem.。
Now here's what happened.。
In 722 BC, Assyria attacks from the north and attacks the ten tribes that had gone up。
north and they basically desecrate those ten tribes.。
They kill most of the men in those tribes and then they intermarry with most of the。
women, creating a kind of new sort of race of people that were half Assyrian, half Jewish.。
And fascinatingly, later on in the biblical story in the New Testament when Jesus is doing。
his ministry, if you remember the Jewish people really hated the Samaritans who were up north,。
the Samaritans was the result of the half Assyrian, half Jewish creation.。
This is why in those New Testament passages they say, "Oh, the half breeds, those Samaritans."。
That's where it comes from.。
So in 722, that Lego army, can you see on the screen, of Assyria came and attacked those。
ten tribes.。
Now, at about 605 BC, another nation, Babylon, comes from the east and attacks the two tribes。
in Jerusalem.。
And they do some significant things, they break down the walls of Jerusalem, they break。
down the temple, they destroy the temple of Jerusalem, literally make it into rubble.。
And then they take a remnant of the Jewish people back into captivity in Babylon, which。
is where they are for 70 years.。
Well fast forward just a little bit later and another nation is raised up.。
This is the nation Persia.。
And Persia comes and attacks Babylon now.。
They come from the east of Babylon, they attack Babylon, and when they do that, they realize。
that there is this remnant of Jewish people in Babylon.。
And they realize that these people have a home back in Jerusalem, and so King Cyrus。
of Persia, he actually gives permission for the Jewish people after 70 years to finally。
go back and reestablish themselves in Jerusalem, and the book of Ezra tells that story.。
Now, there are three waves of Jewish returnees back to Jerusalem.。
They did it in three waves under the leadership of a particular person with a particular purpose.。
Zerubbabel led the first wave, and Zerubbabel's permission and objective was to reestablish。
and rebuild the temple.。
The second wave was done by Nehemiah, and Nehemiah was to rebuild the walls.。
The third was Ezra, and Ezra led the third wave to reestablish the law.。
So these three things, reestablishing and rebuilding the temple, reestablishing and。
rebuilding the walls around Jerusalem, and then placing the law back in the hearts of。
the Jewish people was the focus of the return of the Israelites at this time.。
And Ezra was responsible for instituting the law back in everyone's hearts.。
Now, here's the really confusing thing, stay with me.。
Here's the really confusing thing.。
The book of Ezra actually doesn't talk about Ezra reestablishing the law.。
That actually is taught to us in Nehemiah, the book of Nehemiah.。
In Ezra, what we see is a picture of the rebuilding of the temple.。
Ezra tells the story of Zerubbabel and Zerubbabel's efforts in rebuilding the temple, particularly。
in chapter three.。
And what you see in chapter three is this profound picture.。
There's Ezra describing the moment where him and all the other elders of Israel are standing。
with their feet in the ruins of the old temple, in literally the rubble of the old temple,。
as they watch the builders begin to construct the foundations for the new temple out of。
the rubble of the old.。
I wonder if you could imagine being there on that day, standing in the ruins of a temple。
before and out of those very rubbles and ruins begin to see a new temple being built.。
As I read this, something really shifted in my spirit, shifted for me personally, but。
I think also for us as a church community, because I don't know about you, but I can。
recognize that there are still some things in my life that lie in ruin.。
I know that there are still some things of rubble within me, some things of my past that。
maybe I haven't fully dealt with, some words that have been spoken that still seem to have。
an impact on me.。
I've talked a lot here about the insecurities that I struggle with in life, and I can still。
see the ruins and the rubble of those insecurities at work in me.。
Maybe some sin that I know has been there and I've struggled and wrestled to try to。
release myself from it.。
I can see and feel the ruins and the rubble of some of myself that is still in my life.。
And so when I read this passage of Ezra and his people standing in the rubble of the old,。
as God begins to build the new, something begins to lift and hope in me.。
Perhaps that resonates with you here this afternoon as well.。
Perhaps if you're honest with yourself, you would recognize that there are some things。
that lay in ruin within you too.。
Maybe each one of us could share a story of some of the rubble that seems to still be。
there.。
Again, maybe for some of you it's an old relationship.。
Maybe a marriage that didn't work out, a relationship that didn't work out that still seems to be。
like rubble within you.。
Maybe it was a hope or a prayer or you put all your trust in something and it didn't。
work out.。
Maybe a relationship broke or someone betrayed you or a word was spoken that really hurt。
you deeply and there's been a traumatic event that you've not been able to let go of and。
you recognize that there's still some of that rubble there.。
There's still some of that ruin within yourself and you know that you're not fully the person。
that you long to be.。
Sometimes we have to recognize that we're still standing in a bit of rubble.。
And if that resonates with you, within the next four weeks is an exciting season for。
you because we're going to look through this passage in Ezra and we're going to unpack。
a number of things through that passage that I think is going to help you to begin to recognize。
the rubble and begin to release and remove and basically transform into that person that。
he longed you to be.。
I want to use the analogy, if you will, of the rebuilding of the second temple to be。
an analogy of what the Holy Spirit wants to do in your life.。
Remember what Paul would say, that you are a temple of the Holy Spirit.。
And I think what we see happening in this passage about the rebuilding of the second。
temple has so much to say about how the Spirit wants to rebuild us.。
So I want to read you this passage that we're going to be digging into over these four weeks。
together.。
And then we're just going to look at the first couple of verses here this afternoon.。
Is this okay, everyone?。
You're right?。
All right.。
Ezra 3, starting in verse 10.。
When the builders laid the foundation of the temple of the Lord, the priests in their vestments。
and with trumpets, and the Levites, the sons of Aspha, with cymbals, took their places。
to praise the Lord as prescribed by David, king of Israel.。
With praise and thanksgiving, they sang to the Lord, "He is good.。
His love to Israel endures forever."。
And all of the people gave a great shout of praise to the Lord, because the foundation。
of the house of the Lord was laid.。
But many of the others who had seen the former temple wept out loud when they saw the foundation。
of this temple being laid.。
While many others shouted for joy, no one could distinguish the sound of the shouts。
of joy from the sound of weeping, because the people made so much noise and the sound。
was heard from far away.。
When the enemies of Judah and Benjamin heard that the exiles were building a temple for。
the Lord, the God of Israel, they came to Zerubbabel and to the heads of the family。
and they said, "Let us help you build, because like you, we seek your God and have been sacrificing。
to him since the time of Esheron, king of Assyria, who brought us here."。
But Zerubbabel, and I think you could insert here, filled with the passion of the Holy。
Spirit, Jeshua and the rest of the heads of the family of Israel answered him this, "You。
have no part with us in building a temple to our God.。
We alone will build it, for the Lord, the God of Israel, as King Cyrus, the king of。
Persia, has commanded us."。
And the peoples around them set out to discourage the people of Judah and make them afraid to。
go on building.。
They hired counselors to work against them and frustrated their plans during the entire。
reign of Cyrus, king of Persia, down to the reign of Darius, king of Persia.。
Father, as we open up this passage over the next four weeks, I want to pray that you would。
bring something alive within each person here.。
I want to pray that you would do some rebuilding, Lord.。
And I want to pray that people here would feel like they're becoming more the person。
that you've designed them to be.。
And I want to pray for the wind of the Spirit, with faith and courage, to rise up here at。
the vine.。
We thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Let me read the first part of the first verse again.。
"When the builders laid the foundation of the temple of the Lord."。
Ezra begins this amazing moment in Israel's history by simply saying, "We're standing。
there in the rubble, in the ruins."。
And the builders come out and they begin the work of laying the foundations right where。
we were standing in the rubble.。
I love how the fact that Ezra doesn't try to paint a prettier picture than the reality。
of what it was.。
Jerusalem in those days was a desolate place.。
It used to be one of the most beautiful cities in all of the world.。
And at this point, it literally lay in ruins.。
We don't see a full picture of that in Ezra 3, but you can go to other books like Nehemiah。
that shows us the same moment and look at how they describe it.。
So let me show you Nehemiah chapter 4, starting in verse 2.。
It says, "In the presence of his associates in the army of Samaria, he said, 'What are。
these feeble Jews doing?。
Will they restore their wall?。
Will they offer sacrifices in the temple?。
Will they finish in a day?。
Can they bring the stones back to life from these heaps of rubble, burned as they are?'"。
Have you ever had anybody in your life where you're kind of thinking, "Man, I can't wait。
for the future.。
I'm excited about what's ahead."。
And they're like the naysayer that's around you saying, "Really?。
You really think that's going to happen to you?。
That's not going to happen to you."。
Anybody had anybody like that in their lives?。
Yeah, okay.。
Either you have or you're lying.。
But the reality is we all have those people, right?。
When we say, "Hey, you know, I want to step out, entrepreneur.。
I'm going to start my own business."。
Oh, really?。
Have you seen the last business you ran?。
Do you see how terrible you are running businesses?。
So here's Ezra and Nehemiah.。
They're going to rebuild the wall.。
They're going to rebuild the temple.。
And here's all the naysayers around them, the enemies of God's people, and they're taunting。
them.。
And they're saying, "Have you seen the stones?。
Have you seen the rubble?。
Have you seen how burnt it is?。
I mean, there is nothing good that could ever come from this rubble."。
That's the taunts that are coming against God's people as they're planning to rebuild.。
And I love the fact that Nehemiah and Ezra do not shirk from that.。
They do not hide it.。
They put it right out there for thousands of years for people to read.。
Yeah, it was bad, they're saying.。
I mean, literally those stones were burnt up and thrown aside.。
What the Babylonians had did to our wall and did to our temple.。
I mean, it's disgusting.。
I mean, it was an absolute shambles.。
They're not trying to sweep it under the rug.。
They're not trying to pretend like things aren't good.。
They're not trying to like kind of, you know, put a wool over our eyes.。
They're actually saying, "No, it was really bad.。
We used to have this glorious temple, and now it was like the stones were all burnt。
and ruined and desolate."。
Nehemiah and Ezra want you to see how bad things are because they know that that's the。
starting place from which God is going to do something.。
They know that God's going to get even more glory in the future if you can understand。
just how terrible it is to begin.。
And you need to understand, any journey in personal transformation will not happen unless。
you recognize in your life what needs to change.。
You will resist the Spirit's work in transforming you if you're constantly sweeping under the。
rug all of the ugliness within your life.。
If you're constantly trying to pretend to everybody and come into church on a Sunday,。
"Hey, praise Jesus.。
Everything's great," when you know that there are stuff lying in ruins within you and rubble。
around you, the starting point of every transformation is the honesty and the sober reflection, "There's。
rubble within me."。
A holy dissatisfaction that there is some stuff that's laying in ruins inside of me。
and I'm tired of covering it up.。
Need to understand that you will never become the person that God longs you to be without。
first understanding and owning the person you are today.。
Without first understanding and owning the reality that there are some broken pieces,。
that there is some burnt out stones, that it's not looking the way that you were longing。
it to look.。
And just in the soberness and the honesty, it's saying, "I see it.。
I know it.。
I own it.。
I don't want it, but it starts here."。
And once we get ourselves to the point where we know where we begin, then here's the most。
important thing for you to hold on to.。
God's work of renewal always begins in the rubble.。
God's work of renewal always begins in that place of rubble.。
What's amazing to me is Ezra and Nehemiah, they're like, "Yeah, the place is really bad.。
Yes, the stones, they're burnt out."。
But what they don't do is remove all the burnt out stones and then bring in stones from somewhere。
else to start the foundations of the temple.。
What they do is they take those burnt out stones and they begin to lay the foundation。
for the new temple.。
Something that causes the older people to weep, something that causes the young people。
to cheer.。
But notice this, they don't get rid of the old stones, they restore and reuse those stones。
in the new temple.。
And this is exactly what the Holy Spirit does in the personal transformation of us.。
When there's things that lie in ruin within you, that's not the area where the Lord says,。
"Ew, let's get rid of that."。
That's the area where He gets excited and says, "We're going to do something with that。
rubble."。
You see, the enemies are going, "Have you seen the stones?。
Nothing good can come of that."。
And some of you, you're in a season of your life where you see the rubble within you and。
that's what you're thinking too.。
You're like, "Man, there's this brokenness, there's this sin, there's this trauma, there's。
these mistakes I've made, there's this stuff that somebody else did to me that's really。
hurt me deeply.。
I mean, nothing good could ever come from that.。
Well, I guess I'm on plan B or plan C or plan F in my life."。
And the Lord stands over you and says, "Don't you realize that the rubble within you is。
my playground?。
Don't you realize that the rubble with inside of you is the very place where I do my greatest。
miracles?。
Don't you recognize that that's where I want to restore and renew you?。
It's not like I'm going to wipe that away and we're going to start afresh.。
I'm going to take the very things that the enemy has used for him and I'm going to restore。
the years that the locusts have eaten.。
I'm going to give back to you out of the very place of your greatest brokenness, your greatest。
future."。
You see, you need to understand that when the Lord sees the rubble of your life, he's。
not repulsed and repelled.。
He rejoices and rolls up his sleeves.。
He's like, "We're going to get going."。
He's like, "You want to see some personal transformation?。
Bring me that.。
Bring me the burnt out stones.。
Bring the worst ones and we're going to have a party.。
We're going to do something.。
We're going to move something.。
We're going to trans...。
I'm rolling my sleeves up.。
I'm excited for what's about to happen in your life."。
And so often we see the rubble and we think nothing good can come with this.。
We decide with the taunts of the enemy, "I don't think anything good can come for this."。
And God's like, "If you could only see through my eyes."。
See Ezra and Nehemiah, they realized they had a decision to make.。
They didn't shy away from the desolate place that they were standing in.。
They didn't try to ignore the reality of the burnt out stones, but they had a decision。
to make.。
Were they going to agree with the taunts of the enemy and say, "I don't think anything。
could ever happen with these stones."。
Or were they going to say, "This is the very place in which the Lord is going to begin."。
And I believe that all of us here are going to be faced with that decision.。
That's the starting point of a season of personal transformation.。
To recognize what it is that needs to be transformed, to be sober about it, to be honest about it,。
to recognize it, own it, see it.。
But then to decide, "You know what?。
Even though that rubble is telling me I'm never going to amount to anything, I'm going。
to trust and have faith and courage and I'm going to trust in the Lord that this is actually。
the place where He begins."。
See, what you currently see as the rubble of your past, the Lord sees as the building。
blocks of your future.。
Come on church.。
I know it's the afternoon on a Sunday, but come on.。
You guys okay?。
Too many dim sums for lunch?。
I mean that's serious preaching behind me right there.。
Come on.。
Like, this is it, right?。
What we see as the rubble of our past and we therefore will amount to nothing, God sees。
that and He says, "I'm going to make that the building block."。
Psalms say it this way, "The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone."。
The one that everybody threw away, the one that nobody thought anything good.。
How could anything good ever come from Nazareth was the cry.。
"I'm going to take the one thing that everybody's going to reject and that's going to be the。
thing that I'm going to build my whole kingdom on.。
That's going to be the thing that's going to be the cornerstone of every salvation in。
this world ever.。
I'm going to take what is rejected, hung on the cross, beaten, bled and killed and I'm。
going to raise it in three days time and it's going to have the fullness of life and the。
same spirit that did that will then be placed in you."。
And so you stand before the rubble of your life and you can either go, "Nothing great。
is ever going to happen now because of that."。
Or you can go, "It hurts.。
It's hard.。
There's trauma.。
It's difficult."。
I'm not downplaying the reality of the rubble but I have a decision to make.。
Either I align myself with the enemy and the conversation on death or I align myself in。
faith and courage with the Lord and the conversation of life.。
But me and my household, we choose life.。
The question is how do we do it?。
How do we actually make that shift?。
Because the trauma is difficult.。
The rubble is tough.。
The burnt out stones have a strong story.。
How do we even begin the process of personal transformation when the rubble seems so loud?。
Well notice what it says here in verses 10 and 11.。
"When the builders laid the foundation of the temple of the Lord, the priests in their。
vestments with their trumpets, and the Levites, the son of Aspar with the symbols, took their。
place to praise the Lord as prescribed by David the king of Israel.。
With praise and thanksgiving they sang to the Lord, 'He is good.。
His love to Israel endures forever.'。
And all the people gave a great shout of praise to the Lord because the foundations of the。
house of the Lord was laid."。
I do not understand this part.。
Follow with me.。
Here's the people with their feet in the ruins of the old temple, set in the rubble of those。
burnt out stones, knowing and seeing the long journey ahead, wondering if Jerusalem could。
ever be the place that it used to be.。
And here's what they're doing.。
They're wallowing in self-pity.。
No, that's not what they're doing.。
Here's what they're doing.。
They're shouting praise.。
They're getting symbols and smashing them together.。
You can imagine there were drums going.。
There were shouts of praise from all the people.。
"Worthy is He.。
Hallelujah to Him."。
They're having a massive dance-off worship party whilst the builders are laying the first。
stones of the new building of the temple.。
There's a praise party going on in the rubble.。
I don't know about you, but that doesn't make any sense to me.。
Because when I'm aware of the rubble and what's been broken down in my life, the last thing。
I want is someone smashing symbols around me.。
The last thing I want is somebody singing some happy praise song.。
The last thing I want is some cheesy Christian bumper slicker slapped on my face.。
The last thing I want is someone to say, "Hallelujah, praise Jesus," when I'm wallowing in my rubble.。
In fact, when I'm aware of the brokenness and everything, here's what I naturally want。
to do.。
I want to run away from the world.。
I want to run away from Christians.。
I want to hide in a cave and escape it all.。
My natural tendency when the rubble is speaking loud is not to praise Jesus.。
It is to turn away.。
But Israel, right at the start, have decided to start praising the Lord.。
Because they understand that the only way the rubble is going to get transformed is。
if they make space for the Spirit of God to come.。
And the only way they can make space for the Spirit of God to fall is by praising the burnt。
stone.。
Well, they're not praising the stone.。
They're praising Him.。
But they're praising Him in the burnt stones.。
Are you with me?。
They're praising Him, giving Him glory, and they're worshiping Him amongst the stones。
that are burnt, not knowing what's going to happen, but making a decision.。
If we don't praise Him at the beginning, we shouldn't praise Him at the end.。
Come on.。
Like, I think we get this so wrong as Christians.。
So often our praise is founded at the end when God's done something great.。
Let me tell you, it's easy to worship Jesus when your prayer's answered.。
Come on.。
It's easy to worship Jesus when everything falls into place, when the prayer gets answered,。
when the miracle happens, when the healing takes place.。
Of course we say hallelujah when God has done something incredible for us, and we should.。
That is worship.。
You should when your prayer is answered, when that job comes through, when the miracle takes。
place.。
Of course you should praise and honor and worship Him.。
That's absolutely right.。
But the majority of the worship that happens in church happens because people have had。
an outcome they were liked in God.。
I liked what God did, therefore I praise.。
Which means when we don't like what God did, guess what happens to our praise?。
What happens is that our praise becomes like a wish list of all of our prayer requests。
put to music.。
Have you ever found yourself drawn to the worship songs that tell God exactly what you。
want Him to do for you?。
Those are the songs that we like to sing as the ones that actually tell God what to do.。
Here's Israel and they're praising God in the middle of this moment.。
And they're making this decision because they're creating space for it.。
And we so often praise God at the end, praise God because of an outcome.。
Israel is praising God at the start before any prayer is answered, before any temple。
is built, before anything that happens.。
They have no idea what's going to take place.。
They don't know if the temple is going to be as beautiful as the old one.。
They don't know if the city is going to look as grand and as great as the old one, but。
that doesn't matter to them.。
They're saying the only way this is happening is if we praise at the beginning, not just。
praising at the end.。
That's a dangerous kind of worship.。
My friends, that's worship that's a weapon.。
Most of the worship that we do, like I say, is coming at the end.。
The worship that really is a weapon, that really shifts stuff, is not a worship that。
comes at the end that's retrospective.。
It's the worship that happens at the beginning that's prophetic.。
The worship that is not reactive to something, but the worship that is proactively calling。
in the kingdom of God to do something in a dry and desolate land.。
That worship moves the hand of God.。
That's the kind of worship that actually tears down the walls of Jericho and moves those。
bricks to rubble and then takes the rubble in Jerusalem and creates another glorious。
city.。
That's that kind of worship.。
That's the kind of worship that I think the Lord wants to release here at the Vine.。
I think we have much of that kind of worship.。
I think one of the things I'm so enjoyed about here in our community, that I do believe we。
do worship at the beginning, but your personal transformation journey will only start when。
you shift your worship away from being retrospective to being prophetic.。
Away from looking back to looking forward.。
That's the key to the start of your personal transformation journey.。
And I want you to see, because this is so powerful, I want you to see the content of。
Israel's worship.。
Not only are they worshipping at the start, but the question we should ask is, what are。
they worshipping?。
Listen to this.。
They say, "He is good, his love to Israel endures forever."。
I love this because this is not the worship that I would have brought in that moment.。
If I was Ezra and Zerubbabel and the family head elders of Israel and we're standing in。
the rubble, our worship would probably sound a little bit more, if I was leading, it would。
probably sound a little bit more like this, "Lord, we worship you today because you're。
going to build a glorious temple.。
We worship you today because you're going to make Israel's name great in all the nations。
again.。
We worship you today because you're going to make Jerusalem an incredible city."。
In other words, my worship would be based on some sort of circumstance that I'm hoping。
that the Lord will bring.。
So often our worship is based on a circumstance we're looking for.。
Israel, they start the journey not by saying, "God, would you come and do this for our temple?"。
They start simply by this, "This is how I worship you.。
Not on some circumstance that I want, but on a God that I know.。
He is good."。
In other words, I'm going to focus on character over circumstance, over the nature of God。
than the narrative of the world.。
And sure, I see those burnt out stones and I see the rubble and I'm not shy from it.。
I'm honest about it and I'm sober about it.。
I realize our starting point.。
But that starting point is not asking God to do something that I want Him to do.。
I'm just literally saying, "Because He is good, I can put my trust in Him.。
Because He is good in a season of uncharted personal transformation, I can trust that。
whatever happens is going to be in His will and ultimately is going to be good, even if。
it's not what I want.。
If I can say He is good, everything around me changes in light of that declaration."。
Church, you have to understand that in the Christian life, the journey of personal transformation。
begins not with a shift in circumstance, but with a shift in perspective.。
Not your perspective about the world, but the perspective about God.。
See, as soon as you start thinking about Him differently, everything else begins to fall。
in place.。
When our divine perspective shifts, your temporal reality will be reframed.。
I'm not saying the circumstance is suddenly going to be how you want it to be.。
I'm not saying that you're suddenly going to get all the things that you've been praying。
and asking for.。
What I'm saying is when you understand that He is good, you will look at your circumstance,。
no matter whether it's good or bad, differently.。
Your temporal reality will be reframed out of the declaration that He is good.。
In other words, when I'm trying to change and be more like Christ Jesus, if I start。
with my circumstance, "Oh, I'm just going to change me.。
I might change a little bit, but I'm going to fall back again."。
Whereas instead, if I change in how I see God, He is good, He is mighty, He is powerful,。
He is faithful, He never gives up on His promises.。
When I declare His nature, it begins to reframe the way in which I see the here and now.。
And those rubbles can come to life because He's good.。
You see, I don't know if He's going to heal me of these insecurities that I've battled。
with for many years in my life, but I do know that He is good.。
I don't know if He's going to answer the prayers that I've been praying for many different。
areas of my life the way I want Him to answer them, but I do know He is good.。
I don't know if He's going to heal your cancer, but I do know He is good.。
I don't know if He's suddenly going to change and magically restore your marriage, but I。
do know that He is good.。
I don't know if He's going to provide that job you need or that spouse you want or whatever。
it might be, but I do know He is good.。
And when we know that He is good, everything else around us begins to take on a new way。
of looking.。
And we stand in the rubble and we see that it's burnt out, but because He is good and。
our starting place is worship, not because of what's going to happen, but simply because。
of His nature and His character, we suddenly find ourselves believing that the future is。
going to be better than the past.。
That's the burden, this holy dissatisfaction in what currently is and this longing for。
what could be abundantly more, because He is good.。
So it begins recognizing the rubble, not sweeping it under the carpet, confessing it, owning。
it, seeing it, sharing it with those around you if you're called to do that, bringing。
it to Him.。
It then begins understanding that God's greatest work is done in the rubble, that it's His。
playground.。
He rolls up His sleeves and gets excited and digs in.。
And then because of that, we start in worship.。
We start in declaring that He is good no matter what might happen, no matter how long it might。
take, no matter what transformation might be there, but we say He is good.。
And that reframes the way we see the rubble, it reframes the way we see ourselves, it reframes。
everything around us.。
It doesn't naturally make everything perfect, but it does enable us to have the faith and。
the courage to begin.。
It would end up taking 20 years for the temple to be rebuilt.。
Listen to this, most of the eternally significant things that the Lord wants to do in your life。
will not be done in a moment or a single day.。
Most of the most underlying, worthy and valuable things that the Lord will do in your life。
will happen when you on a faithful, obedient level, just every day do a small, maybe even。
sent feeling to you mundane little thing where you're obedient to Him and you move a rubble。
maybe two inches this way and then move another piece two inches that way.。
And then over a long period of time, suddenly 20 years later, you are not the person you。
used to be.。
It starts in the rubble, it starts with praise and it starts with reframing everything around。
us because He is good and His love endures forever.。
Amen.。
Can we stand together?。
I would love to pray for you and pray over you and in you and through you and all the。
other things that we can do in prayer.。
Father just, we are so, so grateful.。
Lord, we want to thank you for the start of this series and these next four weeks that。
are on your heart for the people in this room.。
Thank you that each person here has some area of their life that you want to restore, rebuild。
and renew.。
I want to just pray pastorally first of all just for anyone in this room where the rubble。
is really difficult right now.。
You know, just like Ezra and Nehemiah, we do not play down the rubble.。
For some of you, you are in a really difficult time.。
Maybe some of you in this room, you really are struggling with trauma.。
You are struggling with some big issues that are not a quick and easy fix and it can feel。
overwhelming and painful and hurtful and perhaps you are not even sure if you are going to。
survive.。
We just want to pastorally as a church community pray over anyone in this room where that is。
their reality right now.。
The Lord will bring his strength to you, to hold you in a time of unprecedented struggle.。
So Lord, if there is anybody in this room where the rubble seems to be far too overwhelming。
right now, Lord we want to pray that just step one is that they would find you right。
now.。
That they would feel you strengthening them and holding them, walking with them.。
Father, I want to pray for these people in the room that need to make a decision today.。
I feel like this is important for this service, maybe more than the others.。
There's some of you here that it's a long time since you've done this, but you need。
to make a decision.。
Are you going to listen to the taunts of the enemy, take a look at the rubble in your life。
and say, "Well, I guess nothing ever good is going to come from that."。
Or are you going to draw a line in the sand and in faith and courage say, "I believe。
that the Lord can renew from the burnt out stones something glorious and great."。
Some of you in the stream, you need to make a decision here today that you're not going。
to allow the voice of the rubble to be louder to you than the voice of the Spirit.。
And so it's standing strong today and saying, "I'm making that decision.。
I'm going to choose life.。
I don't know how it's going to work out.。
I don't know exactly what the Lord's going to do.。
It's uncharted.。
But I will trust in Him and I will believe that the Spirit's bringing of life is greater。
than the rubble's voice of death."。
Some of you need to make that decision here this afternoon in response.。
And finally, perhaps for some of you, worship needs to shift in your life.。
Maybe you recognize that worship often is an outcome for you.。
It often is only a response to what the Lord has done.。
What would it look like for you to start worshiping at the beginning?。
What would it look like for you to shift your worship away from a circumstantial change。
to a declaration of the nature of God?。
What would it look like for you to get a fresh divine perspective that could change your。
temporal framing of your situation right now?。
So for some of you, it's a shift in how you worship, a shift in the way you think about。
worship from retroactive to proactive, from retrospective to prophetic, to saying right。
here and right now, even in the rubble, "Long before I have seen an answer, I have seen。
an outcome.。
I will praise Him for He is good.。
His love endures forever."。
So Lord, as we worship you now, would you just come for those that need your touch and。
your strength pastorally, would you come for those that need to make a decision, would。
you enable them to do so in their heart?。
For those that want to shift their worship, would you release, Lord, a fresh voice and。
a fresh sound from each life and each person to be able to worship you as you've always。
mean it?。
We just thank you for this.。
In Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
In Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
[music]。
