Amen.。
Amen.。
Hey, earlier I was taking back to my college days, "Shout to the Lord."。
So it's been quite a while.。
But that actually was a song where I fell in love with worshiping.。
And so for me, that was very special.。
So thank you so much for bringing this to us this morning, you know, to worship God。
in that way.。
Now talking about university, while I was at university, I had a friend, a great friend,。
to this day a good friend, who checked in on me.。
He asked, "Tim, how are you doing?"。
And I was doing okay, la, you know, I was okay.。
And then he, I said, "I'm okay."。
And he's like, "What's wrong?"。
I was like, "What do you mean, what's wrong?。
I'm okay."。
"No, something's wrong, Tim.。
You should be happy.。
Jesus was always happy."。
I was like, kind of caught off guard and thinking, I was like, "No, surely Jesus wasn't always。
happy."。
I was like, "What about when he died on the cross?"。
And so that kind of ended the conversation.。
And we're still friends today, so it didn't end the friendship.。
But as I was reflecting on that, there was something in me just saying that I was okay,。
or him perceiving that I was not doing good, where it brought him discomfort.。
He felt like it was not right.。
And it's a type of misguided spirituality where you think when you're a Christian, you。
always need to be happy.。
You always need to feel great.。
And even if you're not feeling great, you have to pretend like you're feeling great.。
And it can also have this toxic faith element where you believe, "If I have faith, then。
I will not suffer.。
I will have no pain.。
I will have no difficulties."。
And so that somehow flowed into this conversation.。
Now besides misguided spiritualities, actually our culture is not comfortable with pain,。
with suffering, and with grief.。
If you're, I remember in the US, you know, you walk around, you say, "Hey, what's up?。
How's it going?"。
"Great."。
And if you ever actually answer that, "Really, how are you feeling?"。
People are like, "I don't want to hear that, man.。
I just want to hear you're great and I want to move on with my life."。
Right?。
So there is, even within our culture, there is this comfort.。
Don't be a downer.。
Don't rain on my party.。
And so we're stuck with these feelings of grief, of pain, of difficulty, of sorrow,。
and we feel like we're not allowed to express them.。
And maybe we even feel shame for them.。
And so then we're not sure, "Can I bring this to my friends?。
Do they even want to hear about this?"。
Or maybe they want to hear about it once, but they don't want to hear about it a second,。
the third, the fourth, the fifth time.。
"Can I bring this to my Christian community?"。
Or do they also reflect culture and don't want to hear about it after they prayed about。
it once, they feel like it should be settled?。
"Can I bring it to God?。
Or is this a part of my life that I need to hide from God because I somehow feel, or my。
environment has told me, that I always need to be joyful and feel great and happy, and。
then when I struggle, it's a part that God does not want to hear?"。
And this leads us to a lot of times we don't actually know what to do with our pain.。
We don't know what to do with our suffering.。
We don't know what to do with our agony, with the things that we're carrying around in our。
hearts.。
And I just wonder this morning, who here woke up with tears this morning?。
Who went last night as you were laying in bed, was feeling sorrow?。
I think it's quite a few.。
I don't think it's just like one, two people.。
What sort of pain have you been carrying around?。
Maybe it's even from a long time ago where this is just this thing that just has not。
gone away.。
What do we do with that?。
So what I want to do with you this morning is I want to explore with you a question,。
and the question is this.。
How can we bring our sorrows and our grief and pain before God?。
What does God's word teach about that?。
How are we supposed to process that?。
So today we're continuing in our message series, Fresh Encounter.。
We have been looking at fasting, so we're also doing this fast together, which I don't。
know about you, for me this has been very encouraging.。
I love doing that together.。
I feel really strengthened when I get to do this with other people.。
And I've experienced God in a deeper way in the season.。
I hope that is your experience as well.。
Then last week we talked about prayer, and we looked at Jesus, how Jesus encouraged the。
disciples to come and pray.。
And he encouraged the disciples with God's goodness, that we have a loving father who。
loves giving good things to the children who ask.。
Today our topic is personal worship.。
Now one thing that we also want to do during the season is, if you've been in church, some。
of us have been in church for a while, some of us might never have been much in church,。
but if you've been in church for a while, it's easy to get stuck in a rut, like to get。
stuck in routines, how we relate to God.。
But God wants to encounter us in fresh ways.。
We don't want to talk about experience from five or ten years ago.。
We want to experience Jesus here and now, because he's alive, and he's moving, and he's。
at work.。
So as I was thinking about personal worship, now the first thing that didn't come to mind。
was talking about pain and sorrow and grief.。
That's actually the last thing that came to mind.。
But I want to, first of all, I want to share with you a practice that is known as the prayer。
of lament.。
Then afterwards I want to talk a little bit more about why I concluded that, as we're。
talking about personal worship, to talk about the prayer of lament.。
So here's a definition of the prayer of lament.。
A lament is a complaint to God.。
Yes, the Bible tells us it is okay to complain to God.。
And it shows us how to do that.。
It's a prayers of lament offer a way to approach God, acknowledge our circumstances, and the。
genuine feelings of sadness, grief, frustration, sorrow, and fear that overwhelm and consume。
us.。
Lamenting is an act of faith that calls upon God for transformation and redemption.。
Now what does personal worship have to do with lamenting?。
Well, for me, personal worship is really bringing all of our lives before all of who God is.。
It's bringing all of our, in every facet of our lives, showing our devotion to him.。
That means that we also do that in the painful parts of our life, that we show our devotion。
to him, that we come before him and bring the sorrows, the pains, the struggling, the。
agony to the one who loves us and who can really do something about what we're experiencing.。
And I personally find when we engage with God in the most difficult times of our lives,。
that it is some of the deepest and most powerful worship there is.。
I was earlier moved, I assume you too, when Henriette, you know, you heard what has happened,。
and she's up here and she is leading us in worship.。
Now that's deep worship.。
That's not easy worship, but that's deep and real worship.。
When our times are tough and we're choosing to become before God with whatever's going。
on, that's an act of faith and it's an act of praise.。
So today we are in the book of Psalms.。
Now there is personal laments.。
There's also corporate laments.。
So the Bible actually teaches us how we can engage in this complaining to God.。
So we didn't just come up with that because we felt like it.。
Actually God's word leads us in that and it shows us how we can do that individually,。
but it also shows how we can do that corporately because sometimes there's things as a society,。
as a group of people that we are lamenting, that we are crying out to God for.。
But today we're going to look at a personal lament.。
We're going to look at Psalm 6 and Psalm 6 is attributed to King David.。
Now the Psalms is the prayer and the worship book of Israel, of Jesus, and of the church.。
Jesus actually, when he was on the cross, he prayed a lament.。
Psalm 22, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?"。
Is a Psalm.。
So Jesus was led by the Psalms, even how to bring his agony and his grief and his pain。
to the father.。
And so we're going to see how the Psalm invites us to bring those things that are heavy, where。
a lot of times we don't know what to do, to the God and to see how God meets us when we。
do that.。
So we're in Psalm 6 and starting in verse 1 it says this, "Lord, do not rebuke me in。
your anger or discipline me in your wrath.。
Have mercy on me, Lord, for I'm faint.。
Heal me.。
Lord, my bones are in agony.。
My soul is in deep anguish.。
How long?。
How long?"。
Now often, when we go through painful and difficult things, there's a thought that comes。
up in our hearts and minds and we wonder, is somehow God angry at us?。
Is he somehow disciplining us or punishing us?。
And we wonder about that.。
I don't know if you've ever thought of that.。
I have thought of that as I've gone through painful experiences.。
Is God somehow disciplining me?。
Is there a sin that I need to confess, something that I need to sort out?。
And sometimes there might be, you know, where there's something we need to work out, but。
a lot of times we just don't know.。
And we feel like maybe there's a distance and we're just wondering what's going on.。
Well here in the Psalm, David, he doesn't confess any very specific sin.。
He does that in others where he's clear.。
So it seems that David is like, "Lord, I don't know if I did something wrong.。
You know, Lord, do not rebuke me in your anger or discipline me in your wrath.。
Take this away.。
I can't.。
This burden is too heavy."。
The Psalmist describes the circumstances, "For I am faint.。
My bones are in agony.。
My soul is in deep anguish."。
Now, throughout the Psalms, pain and suffering is described as physical suffering and pain.。
But it doesn't mean that it just refers to physical suffering and pain.。
Actually a lot of times it's used as a metaphor to also talk about emotional suffering and。
pain.。
And so we actually don't know the circumstance that triggered this pain and suffering in。
David's life.。
If it's an illness or if it's something emotional, something else has happened.。
We don't know.。
But this is a cry, "I can't take it any longer.。
Do something.。
My circumstances, they're weighing me down and they're crushing me.。
How long?。
How long?"。
Now that's the cry of someone who is at their end of the ropes.。
But it is also the cry of someone who is hoping God will act.。
So by crying out to God and asking God how long, David is expressing his hope, even if。
it is a faint hope, that God can step in and change his circumstances.。
So I lament as a complaint to God, as a complaint to the one we believe who can actually do。
something about what's going on.。
And this element of hope is important because when we cry out, we come to the one who can。
actually help.。
We come to the one who can meet us and deliver us, who can show us mercy, who can lift us。
out of whatever difficulty it is that we're facing.。
So ultimately, this is a plea for God's mercy.。
You see it in verse two, "Have mercy on me."。
There's an Old Testament professor I like and he comments on this verse.。
He says this, "When people in life are against us, we have nothing to turn to but God's generosity,。
his grace, his mercy, his love.。
He's the one that delivers us.。
He's the one that meets us.。
He's the one that has the power to bring us out, to bring us through, to sustain us when。
we are weak, when we have nothing left in our tank.。
Let's continue.。
Verse four, "Turn, Lord, and deliver me.。
Save me because of your unfailing love.。
Among the dead, no one proclaims your name.。
Who praises you from this grave?"。
Now the word that's translated as "turn," actually a more literal translation is "return."。
So David is saying, "Return to me, Lord."。
He feels like God has abandoned him.。
He feels like he's on his own.。
"Return to me."。
And he also appeals to God's love, to his unfailing love.。
So when we lament, we also call on who God is and who he promises to be.。
God promises his covenant people, which is also us as Christians, we're in the new covenant,。
that he loves us, that he's with us, that he's faithful.。
And so we call on this, "Lord, you say you're faithful.。
You love us.。
Do something.。
Show me that this is real."。
That's what we're saying.。
And verse five kind of cracks me up because David is like making an argument why God should。
deliver him.。
He's basically saying, "I'm dead.。
Who can praise you?。
What good is it?。
You're going to lose some praise.。
So keep me alive."。
But let's continue in verse six.。
"I'm worn out from groaning.。
All night long I flood my bed with weeping and drench my couch with tears.。
My eyes grow weak with sorrow.。
They fail because of all my foes."。
So right now, the psalmist or David is describing just what he's been experiencing.。
It's also part of lamenting.。
We describe what we're experiencing, what we're feeling, what's been happening.。
And he says that he is worn out from groaning.。
I remember being in Calcutta.。
I volunteered at the home of the dying for Mother Teresa.。
It's like 20 years ago.。
And this hall was full of people who were in their last stage of their lives.。
And then Mother Teresa had organized this space so that people do not die on their own,。
but they do die with dignity, that there's somebody with them, somebody caring with them,。
somebody who softens their pain.。
Now remember when I stepped in there, I mean, the hall was full of groaning.。
Just worn out from the suffering of the sickness, the illness.。
I also remind of my father when he had cancer and he passed away in 2007.。
Just the groaning when the tumors were growing and pushing on nerves.。
So David's saying, "I'm worn out, Lord.。
I got nothing.。
I have nothing.。
I'm an empty."。
And then it talks about the weeping and the crying.。
Now I don't know if you've had this experience.。
At nighttime, things settle down, we're not as busy, we're not as distracted.。
And then the thing comes, the stuff comes up that we're carrying.。
And then the tears start flowing.。
We start weeping.。
I've had that.。
I went through a difficult, the most difficult experience of my life, 2017.。
And almost every night, I was weeping.。
Every night, tears were flowing.。
And so we described to God what's going on.。
Well, what's amazing when we do that, he's not scared of what we're experiencing.。
He's not scared of what we're feeling.。
He's not scared of our complaint.。
God can handle it.。
He invites us to do that.。
People might get uncomfortable.。
God does not get uncomfortable with your pain, with your suffering, with your struggles,。
with whatever's going on.。
God is a sympathetic listener.。
He becomes a partner in our suffering.。
By lamenting, we move from feeling we are alone to being in dialogue with God about。
what is going on.。
So instead of carrying around whatever's going on in ourselves, now we're starting to bring。
it to God.。
And that's actually part of the healing process, just being heard.。
Just putting name, naming what we've been experiencing, putting a name to it.。
We can trust that God understands our pain, that he understands our suffering.。
We can know that because of Jesus.。
Pastor Ivan earlier read a scripture, talked about sharing the suffering of Jesus.。
Jesus was betrayed by one of his disciples, so he knows betrayal.。
He was abandoned by his disciples, where they all just left him.。
He was spat on, he was beaten, he was ridiculed.。
He was physically ultimately put to death.。
So he understands your emotional and your physical suffering, because he has gone through。
it.。
He understands.。
A lot of times in some of my experience, I felt nobody understands me.。
But God understands you.。
And he also went through that, dying on the cross and rising from the dead to lead us。
out of the suffering, to turn things around, so that we can experience his healing, his。
forgiveness, his new life that he gives.。
And this is something that he can give now.。
Earlier as we were praying, I had this vision of Jesus walking around this room and laying。
hands on people's shoulders, just doing healing work in people's lives, just praying over。
us as a community.。
And so Jesus, he loves releasing his healing and his restoration of people.。
There are some things where God's word also promises that they might not get fixed on。
this side of our lives, but we have a promise that one day God will set, for those who believe。
in him, for those who trust him, he will set everything right, that there will be no more。
tears, there will be no more pain, no more suffering.。
You can read Revelation 21.。
Now there's a Psalm that I came across, interesting enough, it even came up in my personal reading,。
Psalm 56, verse 8.。
It says this, "You keep track of all my sorrows.。
You have collected all my tears in your bottle.。
You have recorded each one in your book."。
God does not miss a single tear that has flowed down your face, not a single one.。
That's how attentive he is to you.。
In verse 7, it also says, "My eyes grow weak with sorrow."。
Now, what this means when the Psalms talk about eyes growing weak, it has to do with。
that they've been looking for God.。
They've been waiting on God, but they're growing tired of looking out.。
So it's another called God act.。
My eyes are, I can't look much longer.。
And then to add injury to suffering, suddenly in verse 7, there's also enemies that pop。
up that have smart things to say to us while we're suffering.。
Now maybe it's blaming you for what's going on.。
People always try to explain suffering.。
You know, and then they try to like find fault somewhere.。
And so a lot of times they put the fault on the person who's going through the suffering.。
Maybe it's somebody taking advantage of you while you're suffering, maybe in your job。
or elsewhere.。
So this just adds, but let's continue reading in verse 8.。
It says this, "Away from me, all you who do evil, for the Lord has heard my weeping.。
The Lord has heard my cry for mercy.。
The Lord accepts my prayer.。
All my enemies will be overwhelmed with shame and anguish.。
They will turn back and suddenly be put to shame."。
So suddenly God's unfailing love, this love that David called for in verse 4, breaks into。
the situation.。
David has been hurt.。
God has heard the complaint.。
He has heard the mourning.。
And that changes everything.。
This is a turnaround.。
This is a turning point.。
Now we don't know how much time has passed between the lamenting and this line.。
A lot of times, sometimes God meets us immediately.。
Sometimes there's a longer period.。
But don't be discouraged.。
Jesus is at work underneath the surface.。
He is working.。
Don't lose hope.。
Hold on.。
He's at work in your life.。
And then suddenly, you know, his word will break through, his assurance.。
We don't know what happened.。
Did God speak to David?。
Did somebody have a word for him, come for him?。
Was he encouraged through some of scripture?。
We don't know.。
Now I've had an experience like that.。
I shared earlier that I've gone through a very difficult time.。
And I went to, attended a church and was worshiping.。
And I was stuck.。
I did not know how to move forward in my life.。
My life had come to a sudden halt.。
I was hopeless.。
I just really did not know what to do.。
And I really didn't care even what happened to me at that point.。
And so as I was worshiping, I had a word from Jesus.。
And I've shared this here before.。
I'm not finished with you yet.。
But I felt like he was.。
I felt like it was over.。
But he said, I'm not finished with you yet.。
Now, were all my problems resolved in that moment?。
I still was in the same situation, but I was heard because God had spoken to me, my lamenting。
and my crying and in my worshiping him.。
And it released hope and courage to move forward.。
Suddenly my perspective had changed.。
And then God bit by bit turned my life around and just poured his goodness and his love。
on me.。
So this is transformative part.。
When we bring our pains, our complaints, our sorrows to God in a prayer of lament, that。
God one way or another, at one point or another, that he meets us, that he speaks to us, that。
he provides for us what we need to move forward, to know his steadfast love and the circumstances。
that we're facing, to know that he is going to see us through.。
Now at the beginning of the message, I asked the question, how can we bring our sorrows,。
grief and pain before God?。
Well, the Bible gives us the prayers of lament to show us how to do that.。
And so we've seen that we can bring our complaints to him.。
And I want to share with you five steps of how can I do it?。
How can I lament?。
What do I do?。
Just very simple.。
And this might be something that you use as you pray.。
This might be something you journal on.。
So can we, yes, thank you.。
So the first one is a lament is addressed to God.。
We're talking to God.。
The second one is we bring our complaint.。
We say what's wrong and what's frustrating.。
We just say it.。
And this is not about being theologically correct.。
You just say it.。
You just put it out there.。
And then we tell God what we want from him, what we want him to do.。
And then we describe your situation of distress, your weeping, your sorrow, your struggling,。
or whatever it is, you just put it out there.。
And then we end with a statement of trust, whatever that might be.。
Lord, I believe that you still love me.。
I believe that you will meet me in this.。
I believe it.。
We just end with a statement of trust.。
So those are five ways that we see in a psalm that we can lament, that we can pour our hearts。
to God and how the Bible teaches us to engage with those deep sorrows and pains that we're。
facing.。
And I want to ask the worship team to come up.。
And God wants to encounter us in fresh ways, something new.。
That's what the series is about.。
And God can do something new in our lives.。
And he invites us today to bring to him our sorrow, our grief.。
So I want to do a ministry time.。
I'll explain what we're going to do.。
If you're experiencing something difficult, maybe something that's been going on for a。
very long time, it's just still there.。
I want to invite you to stretch out your hand before.。
And I want to actually invite everyone to stand.。
Maybe it's something, maybe you just spent tears this week, you know, whatever it is,。
I want to invite you to stretch out your hands.。
And then one thing that God gives us is also community.。
I want to invite those in the community.。
If you see somebody with your hand stretched out as a sign of God's love, will you just。
gently place your hand on their shoulder and just pray over them?。
So we're going to do this.。
We're going to pray over each other just for a few minutes, and then we'll go into worship.。
So let's do that right now.。
Let's lift each other up in prayer.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
