- Good morning, church.。
It's good to see you.。
I know there's a lot of you watching from different places,。
so I know you're there,。
and so thank you for joining us this morning.。
Church, I want to start by recapping our last two weeks。
from the Advent series.。
In week one, we talked about the call。
and that there's 400 years of silence,。
people's hearts got hardened,。
and no one expected Jesus to come, but he did.。
And Andrew focused on the call of repentance,。
which is a call to turn around,。
to reorientate yourself in a new direction,。
and it speaks more of action。
and more than just a confession.。
And John the Baptist shows us that Advent is a call。
to personal renewal as well as social reversal.。
Last week, which you probably remember,。
we talked about this beautiful place called the desert,。
and we focused on the wilderness。
and how that it plays a central role。
in the Old Testament biblical narrative,。
and this is where God most revealed himself to his people,。
and he did it through a process in the wilderness。
through intimacy, through teaching, and through healing.。
Also, we just dwelled on the fact that Advent is a time。
for us to redefine our own wilderness,。
from a place of isolation to a place where we can meet God.。
And we must remember that this is the coolest thing,。
that there is fruit in the desert,。
and that God will stop at nothing in our wilderness。
to shape and refine us so that we could be fully alive in him.。
And so before I start, I have a disclaimer to make.。
Although we are gonna be talking about baptisms,。
my intention, for those of you who are already baptized,。
whether in November or you got baptized earlier,。
I do not wanna cause any one of you to second doubt。
or second guess your baptism, right?。
The fact that you got baptism, that's good.。
Now, for those of you who have not gone baptized yet,。
every year we run a few courses throughout the year。
where you can learn more about baptism,。
and hopefully it'll help you make an informed decision。
on whether to get baptized or not.。
So there's more information on that.。
So in the last two months,。
I've been preparing to share with you today,。
and three things came to mind。
that I wanna bring to your attention,。
and these things hinder our faith and hinder our growth,。
and they are distractions, they are hurries,。
and they are desires.。
And so I just want you to reflect。
on whether these things impact your faith or not.。
So church, I wanna ask you,。
how often do you get distracted from what you need to do。
and are called to do?。
Think about Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane,。
and how many times did Jesus have to ask his disciples。
to stay focused and to just pray with him?。
Because often there is so much going on,。
not just externally, but internally in us,。
that our hearts and our focus gets divided.。
Let me ask you another thing.。
How often are you hurrying from one thing to another,。
one place to another, from one conversation to another?。
Lately I'm realizing that hurry。
is one of the greatest enemies to our spirituality,。
because we simply cannot do what Jesus asks of us。
in a hurry.。
We cannot follow him to a quiet place in a hurry.。
We cannot build meaningful relationships in a hurry.。
We cannot listen to what God wants to say to us in a hurry.。
And lastly, I want you to think about this, church.。
How often do you experience a perpetual restlessness。
within your heart that you can't get rid of?。
As humans, we have desires, and they drive and motivate us,。
and we get stuff done, which is great.。
But the tension arises when we realize。
that we're actually finite beings.。
That means we have limitations,。
but yet our hearts desire infinitely so much stuff.。
And what happens then?。
We experience this thing called restlessness.。
We can't stay still, and no matter how much we see,。
no matter how much we do, buy, sell, eat, drink,。
experience, visit, travel, we always want more.。
We can't seem to satisfy that.。
And we do try to satisfy that.。
We try to manage that ourselves,。
but then we're led down this path of more anxiety,。
of depression, of burnout, of materialism,。
of sin, idolatry.。
We form these unhealthy habits and attachments to things,。
all as a way of us trying to address our restlessness。
that actually only God can satisfy.。
And we continue to spiral。
unless we encounter some kind of intervention.。
And so the danger and consequence of being distracted,。
of hurrying, letting our desires consume us,。
is how easily we remove ourselves from God's presence。
and out of his speaking range.。
Our manic lifestyles, whether you realize it or not,。
disconnects and actually threatens our connection。
with our living God.。
And of course, God knows we've done,。
we've tried everything we can to fix this and to help this,。
but perhaps our solution to these states。
that we find ourselves in isn't found in reduction。
or in elimination, but rather in a redirection。
to what God has for us.。
Church, in this period of Advent,。
God redirects our attention back to him,。
back to what he's saying,。
back to what is most important to him.。
He directs the church, that is us,。
to reflect on our readiness。
and to anticipate his son, his second coming,。
but more importantly and just as important,。
God redirects our attention to remind us。
that Jesus is already with us,。
he's already present in our life right now.。
And God reminds us that he has given us the spirit。
so that we don't have to walk each day alone。
or without any help.。
So church, this morning, I just want to let God address you.。
I want him to, I've been praying。
that he would show you something about himself。
or that he would just remind you of something。
that he wants you just to remember,。
just to continue to work in,。
something he wants to encourage you in,。
something he wants to comfort you in.。
And as Andrew said, God does not condemn.。
He reminds us because he loves us.。
And so today, as we talk about the baptism,。
we're not gonna go verse by verse as we're used to.。
I would like to share God's desire,。
his heart for the church that is us。
and what it means to be baptized.。
And so I pray that God would reveal this to you today.。
So church, I'm just gonna pray for us.。
So would you pray with me?。
Lord, I have done my humanly best to prepare for today.。
And only you, Lord, can say what you want to say。
to each of my family members listening, wherever they are.。
So Lord, I surrender this morning to you。
and I trust that you will speak。
because I will say a lot of things this morning,。
but I pray that you would just say that one thing。
to each person as they need it。
and that it would change them, it would form them,。
it would transform them.。
And you are with us.。
Lord, thank you, in your name we pray, amen.。
So with that, we are gonna jump into our passage today.。
We're in Mark chapter one, verse one to eight.。
Please read with me.。
The beginning of the good news about Jesus,。
the Messiah, the Son of God,。
as it is written in Isaiah the prophet.。
I will send my messenger ahead of you。
who will prepare your way,。
a voice of one calling the wilderness.。
Prepare the way for the Lord, make straight paths for him.。
And so John the Baptist appeared in the wilderness。
preaching a baptism of repentance。
for the forgiveness of sins.。
The whole Judean countryside。
and all the people of Jerusalem went out to him,。
confessing their sins.。
They were baptized by him in the river Jordan.。
John wore clothing made of camel's hair。
with a leather belt around his waist。
and he ate locusts and wild honey.。
And this was his message.。
After me comes one more powerful than I,。
the straps of whose sandals I am not worthy。
to stoop down and untie.。
I baptize you with water,。
but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.。
This passage marks the beginning。
of how Jesus became the Messiah。
and how he was introduced.。
And it starts with the Old Testament prophecy from Isaiah。
and how John the Baptist was the fulfillment of that.。
And John's ministry really was to preach。
and to prepare God's people,。
prepare their heart to say that the Messiah will come.。
You just have to wait, you just have to be ready.。
And so in this passage,。
John's preaching represents God's calling,。
us out of the wilderness, out of our distractions,。
out of our busyness and hurrying and restlessness。
to receive the baptism of repentance。
for the forgiveness of sins。
and the baptism of the Holy Spirit.。
So this morning I want to spend time。
unpacking the significance of each baptism。
and why it is important for us as believers。
to receive or to know about these baptisms.。
In verse four, John the Baptist appears in the wilderness。
and begins preaching about the baptism of repentance。
for the forgiveness of sins.。
And so here are a few but brief thoughts。
on the significance of this water baptism.。
So let's start in the Old Testament.。
Wherever there is water imagery,。
it is typically alludes to the presence。
and the work of God's spirit.。
And of course in the New Testament,。
Jesus too uses water to describe the cleansing。
and renewing work of the Holy Spirit.。
And so to baptize is a verb that means to immerse.。
And so baptism as we understand it。
as from a church perspective。
and what we've been practicing。
all of these years and generations。
is baptism is the practice of immersing someone。
into the water.。
And by doing this, it represents a symbolic。
and a spiritual act of being born again,。
of being cleansed, being renewed,。
being resurrected with Christ in a new identity with him。
to have a new beginning in this life with God.。
And that's what we witness all the time.。
And so church, each of us will most likely。
just get baptized once in our lifetime。
as the physical, symbolic and spiritual declaration。
of our faith just as I've mentioned.。
And for majority of us, once is really enough.。
But within the heart and the idea behind baptism。
is the spiritual posturing of our own heart。
that has invaluable benefits in this life with Christ。
and the life to come.。
And so church, today I want us to ask God this,。
Lord, what does it mean to be baptized by you?。
What does it mean to be immersed by you。
and with you each day of our lives as your children?。
How does this look like?。
What must change in my heart for me to receive。
both these baptisms as a posturing of my heart,。
as my act of worship?。
Lord, I'm tired.。
This is for some of us.。
If we're tired, we're a bit cynical,。
we're a bit apathetic to this faith.。
We've been around for so long.。
How can I still receive the baptism。
that you have for me today?。
And so within the call to be baptized。
is a personal invitation to you to be transformed,。
to be renewed, to be immersed by God himself。
in his love as our way of life every single day.。
This is our spiritual journey.。
This is something we go on for the rest of our life.。
And that's our heart's cry when we want to be baptized.。
We're saying, Lord, I wanna be baptized by you.。
I want you to lead me out of my wilderness.。
I wanna follow you wherever you are.。
I want you to bring me into the second birth.。
I want you to show me how your kingdom works,。
what the culture is like, what you value,。
what you say, because all those things I want。
and I want to learn to follow you.。
In verses four to five, as John the Baptist。
preaches about the baptism of repentance,。
a lot of people listen, right?。
They went to him, they responded to his message,。
they confessed their sins and were baptized。
by him in the River Jordan.。
I want to take a more detailed look now。
at what it means to respond in forgiveness,。
repentance, and confession.。
I believe all these men and women。
that came from everywhere heard John the Baptist。
preach the good news to them.。
John gave them an opportunity,。
perhaps, to acknowledge that, you know what?。
Yeah, life is difficult, life is tragic,。
but you know what?。
Out of the wilderness, graciously, divine,。
God divinely calls us out of our wilderness.。
God shows us another way.。
God shows us that the Messiah will come。
and he's not just gonna change our lives,。
but he's gonna change the reality,。
our very understanding of reality。
and everything that's attached to it。
through his son and what's gonna happen on the cross。
and the days after the cross.。
I think John there would have alluded。
to God forgiving us as well as the gospel.。
When we're baptized, we can start again。
because we're forgiven, we know that we're forgiven.。
We are released from all the cages that hinders us,。
our hate, our self-hate, our anger,。
our sin, our guilt, our shame, whatever it is.。
We find out that forgiveness is not just a feeling,。
but it's a decision.。
The good news is that God made a decision to forgive us.。
He continues to extend his forgiveness。
and his grace to us each day。
and as we receive it, we are healed, we are liberated,。
we are reconciled with God as well as each other.。
And church, I wanna share the greatest news。
about forgiveness.。
Forgiveness removes any barriers between God and us,。
whether they're emotional, physical, mental, spiritual,。
and forgiveness also just opens up the possibility。
for a relationship to flourish.。
As Christians, then, we are commanded,。
not commanded, I wanna stress that word.。
We're commanded also to forgive one another。
because we are gonna hurt each other,。
we're gonna offend each other,。
in the same way God forgives us。
so that others may too release and experience。
God's love and God's grace and his forgiveness through us.。
Now, when we hear God calling us,。
we can really only respond by repentance.。
According to scripture, it is only through repentance。
that we can come into God's kingdom.。
Repentance is an action where we make a decision。
to change maybe our way of thinking。
and our current trajectory of where we are going。
and want to go.。
But to change requires humbleness,。
it requires a humility, it requires a willingness to listen.。
And these men and women listened and they heard,。
and what they heard, they yearned,。
they knew that they wanted it,。
so they gave up everything and they said,。
"Yes, we want this."。
I think repentance also means that。
there's nothing you can do for yourself。
and that you recognize that。
and you wanna change your thinking.。
One of my favorite spiritual teachers, Bruce Demiris,。
and I've been really thinking about his words。
in the last few months, and I wanna read you this quote.。
He says, "The truth is, we will never change。
"unless we're sufficiently challenged with new ideas."。
I think this baptism John the Baptist was preaching。
was this new radical idea.。
God calls us what to himself?。
They've never heard of something like this.。
As growing Christians, we must learn, too,。
to be receptive to change, to fresh insight,。
to new leadings into unexplored spiritual territory,。
or else we do miss out on finding true life。
and our true selves with Christ.。
And so our spiritual journey,。
wherever we are in this journey,。
requires always an openness to change,。
and that's called repentance.。
And so if we're willing to receive the forgiveness,。
we're willing to repent and be open-minded,。
we also respond by confession.。
Our confession is a way of declaring with our words,。
but also with action, and we're committing ourselves。
to live another way, and that is his way.。
And so when we confess, we say something like this.。
I confess and choose to turn away from the sin,。
the idolatry, the anxieties, the fears,。
all the things that cause us to be unfaithful。
to you and to each other.。
I no longer want to be a slave to these things.。
I want to be free, as you say that I can be free.。
Lord, in all of these areas that I've offended you,。
I've offended my brother and sister,。
would you forgive me and allow me to start again。
by removing this barrier between us and between us?。
And wherever you are, I confess that's where I want to be.。
Whatever you say, I want to learn to do,。
so bring me into your green pastures,。
into your still waters.。
And so by our confession, God redirects every aspect of us。
into a better way of thinking,。
in a better way of living with him.。
And so, so far, I want to summarize。
what I've been talking about in the last 15 minutes.。
The heart and intention behind baptism。
is a daily invitation into a lifelong journey。
out of the wilderness with our God.。
As we respond to our living God that calls us,。
we reestablish, we rebuild, we reconnect。
these connections, these relationships.。
And as we journey with God, he teaches us what to focus on,。
what to grow in, how to love, how to forgive,。
all of these things we might have missed in our first life.。
And in living, in following Christ,。
we find our meaning, our purpose, our satisfaction,。
and our way of life as Christians.。
So from here on, I want to now think about,。
for us to think about the baptism of the Holy Spirit。
and how this comes into the grand picture。
in the narrative of us journeying with God。
out of the wilderness.。
And I just want to make one more disclaimer, okay,。
last one for today, about the baptism of the Holy Spirit.。
For many of us, I think, if we grew up。
in the charismatic denomination or tradition,。
the word baptism of the Holy Spirit。
actually comes with a lot of baggage.。
At least for me, it does.。
Many immediately, you know, I think of receiving tongues,。
receiving all the spiritual gifts all at once,。
or experiencing some kind of really dramatic thing。
that we read about in Acts.。
I want to reassure you that my heart today for us。
is not to do that, although we can do that some other time,。
but maybe not this morning.。
But I want to clarify this for you.。
I want to clarify that the Spirit of God comes to us。
as believers when we first believe and confess Christ。
at the first point of salvation.。
So what I have to say now about the baptism of the Spirit。
is an additional aspect, an additional dimension。
to our salvation, to our baptism, and our faith.。
So in verse seven, John the Baptist says。
that there is someone coming who is more superior,。
who's more powerful than himself.。
And in verse eight, John says the one who is to come。
will baptize you in the Holy Spirit.。
So what does this baptism look like and mean?。
Mark makes a very important contrast。
between the water baptism here。
and the baptism of God's Spirit,。
in that water baptism in of itself is inadequate.。
That means it is not enough, church,。
to be baptized in water alone,。
because in our hearts, in our spirits,。
what we truly need and yearn for。
is to receive the very presence of God himself.。
And as Christians, the good news is that we are promised。
and given the indwelling presence of God.。
By his Spirit, we become more connected to him,。
we're able to hear him,。
and we allow ourselves to be satisfied by him.。
We are created, God intended us to be created。
to be in a strong and genuine encounter and dialogue。
and a conversation with him every single day,。
and this is only possible because of the Spirit.。
And so the baptism of the Holy Spirit。
reminds us fundamentally every single day。
that apart from him, without him, we can do no good thing.。
We can do nothing.。
It is not us, ultimately, who moves us in this journey.。
It is not us that brings about the change。
that we pray and yearn for.。
It is God's Spirit and what he's doing alone.。
It's his presence in our life that allows us to do that.。
And so, church, we are also incomplete。
until we welcome the Spirit。
and allow him to initiate our growth,。
to allow him to liberate us from bondage,。
to allow him to heal us of our woundedness。
and our brokenness,。
allow him to cleanse us of the uncleanliness,。
and to really allow him to make us whole。
in the personhood of Christ.。
And this is only possible when we say,。
yes, Lord, immerse me in not just forgiveness,。
but in your Spirit every single day,。
or else, otherwise, I can do nothing and I am incomplete.。
And church, one more thing that I want to say。
about the Spirit is that Jesus says。
that there will be a time where many will claim。
to be like Christ.。
They will be claimed, meaning that they are Jesus,。
and they will do Christ-like things,。
and they will deceive many people.。
And Jesus says there will be a day。
when there will be sheep dressed up as sheep's clothing,。
and they will deceive and lead the children of God astray.。
And Jesus points to a day。
where the truth is gonna be undermined,。
and that the truth will be severely twisted。
to serve other selfish gains.。
And church, we already live in this day.。
As Jesus says in John 16, verse 13,。
he says, "The Spirit of truth has come,。
"and he will guide us into all truth."。
This, I share this because this is good news.。
God gives us the Spirit, and he immerses us in the Spirit。
so that we will not be easily deceived.。
He will give us the Spirit, which is a compass。
that will continually speak and remind us。
and to encourage us and to comfort us,。
and ultimately, to point us to the truth,。
point us to what is still good and true in this world.。
And no matter how dark it gets,。
we will still have a compass。
that leads us back into his presence,。
where we can continue to live in the fullness。
of what he intended.。
So church, the baptism of the Holy Spirit。
is the most glorious treasure。
we will ever possess in this life,。
and because that is the very presence of yourself.。
And so our response to the baptism of the Holy Spirit。
is to know that our daily worship,。
our daily response is to host the presence of God,。
is to make room in our hearts,。
is to welcome him every single day and say,。
"Lord, if you do not come, I am incomplete.。
"If you do not come, I will continue to ask you。
"and invite you to come.。
"Whatever I do, wherever I am, whatever season,。
"whatever wilderness, desert, just be with me, Lord.。
"I, I, sit with me.。
"I wanna sit with you."。
You know, recently, church, we've experienced history,。
not just this year, but recently,。
we were able to baptize our brothers and sisters。
in the Vine Church, first ever historic in-house baptism。
that took place on November 8th for the entire Sunday,。
and I know a lot of you were there.。
And I'm just grateful that the Spirit of God。
inspires us to do such things,。
and I do wanna just thank you for everyone。
that spearheaded that, you know who you are.。
And, and just to be able to do what we as a church。
are called to do, which is to see others baptized,。
to see people immersed in God's presence.。
And I had time to actually read over a lot。
of the testimonies that were written。
by our brothers and sisters that day,。
and I want to just sum up.。
I don't have enough time to go through every one,。
but I wanna sum up the general, unique journey。
that each brother and sister took,。
and that they moved from a place of desolation,。
a place of isolation, the wilderness, the desert,。
to a place where, you know what, things are not perfect,。
they're not completely healed,。
but they got to a place where they could breathe again,。
where they could actually hear their thoughts again,。
where they could be liberated,。
where they had a new perspective,。
that they felt free to love and to speak。
and to know and that they're not alone.。
And so this is the journey of baptism,。
this is the posturing of our heart,。
and all these men and women before us,。
on Sunday, November 8th, they said,。
we found the way, and I declare and I confess,。
this is the way I wanna continue to live from now on,。
with our God leading us.。
And so I wanna share this quote。
from a philosopher, theologian, Martin Buber,。
and I feel like he sums up this baptism,。
our baptism journey, and also our reality,。
our shared reality as Christians.。
He says, "God is no object of discourse,。
"knowledge, or even experience.。
"He cannot be spoken of, but He can be spoken to.。
"He cannot be seen, but He can be listened to.。
"The only possible relationship with God。
"is to address Him and to be addressed by Him,。
"here and now."。
Church, this describes the Christian life。
that all of us are on,。
and the beauty of being addressed by God,。
and for us to address God and to listen to God,。
you know, it's not without struggles,。
but it is what it is, and this is the beautiful gospel,。
this is the life that all of us are called to.。
And for me, each day, when I live out this baptism,。
each day is a new opportunity for me。
to call out to God in my wilderness。
of being distracted, of hurrying, of busyness,。
of misplaced desires, of idolatry, of sin, and anger.。
You know, each day I cry out to God,。
and I say, "Lord, I don't wanna live like this anymore.。
"I can't live like this.。
"I can't bear to live like this,。
"so would you show me another way?。
"I don't mind pain, I don't mind the suffer,。
"but just show me another way.。
"Walk with me just through today.。
"That's what I'm asking for, Lord."。
And each day, I'm so forgetful, I just pray one thing.。
I say, "Lord, may I go through this day not to forget you,。
"not to know that you sit with me."。
And I spend most of my energies just to remind myself。
that He indeed is present with me.。
And in the last four to five months,。
I've actually been in the same spot with God.。
I've been surrendering more or less the same one thing.。
I've been praying the same prayers every single day.。
My prayer is this, "Lord, baptize me,。
"immerse me in your presence, in your word,。
"and teach me not to be upset and angry。
"and lash out at my children."。
You know, and it's painful.。
It's humbling when your own children。
teach you how to parent.。
But I think that's God speaking out of the wilderness to me.。
And I think the important thing is to remain repentant,。
to be open, because God is God, right?。
He is the Lord of all creation, all over everything.。
And so I don't mind spending the rest of my life。
just praying the same thing, learning what God has for me,。
if I am to grow to be more like Him.。
And so, church, I just wanna say,。
don't be discouraged in where you are,。
because He is with you.。
And we're supposed to struggle,。
so don't be so hard on yourself.。
If God can speak to me as I practice preaching,。
as I prepared for today,。
He really just spoke to me at 11.20 last night,。
then I'm sure He can speak to you in any situation, church.。
So practically, how does this look like。
for you and I to live out?。
I want to suggest three things。
that I've been personally adopting in my own life。
as a way to live out this idea and heart of baptism.。
And I just ask again, how do you and I posture ourselves。
to be immersed in this way of life?。
First, I would say the key is to be always ready。
to be repentant at any time.。
Guard your heart so that you're always ready。
and able to respond to God,。
even if it's just a very little thing。
that you can say or do.。
You know, God shows up in the most inconvenient times.。
He shows up in the most awkward times.。
He shows up in our conversations.。
He shows up with people we don't like,。
people who we don't even want to see,。
but yet God is there showing us in our disappointments,。
in our interruptions, in our pain and grief.。
He is there to show us Himself and to show us another way.。
And so that you will see, you'll be able to see。
if you are willing to follow Him, new perspective.。
And I think in this life, we will be distracted.。
We will be busy.。
We will be tempted, but no matter what,。
always try to get back to this place。
where your heart can say, "Lord, immerse me.。
"Lord, I know today's been really messed up,。
"but immerse me, that's all I need."。
Second suggestion is to immerse yourself in Scripture。
so that you can make room for the Holy Spirit in your life.。
Why do I say this?。
Because this is what Christians do.。
This is what, this is the only way we know.。
This is our way of life.。
Without letting Him address us with His words,。
we will not be able to live.。
You cannot discern God's voice。
from the deception of the enemy,。
from the good and well-intentioned things of this world,。
from God's intention.。
You know, and my prayer is really simple.。
My prayer is, "Lord, when I wake up,。
"I want you to be the first person that addresses me.。
"I want you to be the first person I talk to."。
And at night, I also just say,。
"Lord, I pray that the person going to sleep right now。
"is different than the person who woke up。
"because you encountered me, you spoke to me,。
"you changed my perspective, and I'm so thankful for that."。
Thirdly, lastly, I want to suggest。
to keep very short accounts in all our relationships.。
You know, our ultimate test, I think, of our Christianity,。
whether it's genuine, whether it's sincere,。
is simply in how we treat each other,。
how we treat our parents, how we treat our children,。
how we treat our enemies, how we treat the stranger。
that we bump into the street。
when we're in a really bad mood.。
What do we say to them?。
How do we treat them?。
But the good news is God is in our relationship,。
so whenever, in any relationship, God is there with us.。
And therefore, I think it's that important。
to prioritize managing our relationship。
and keeping short accounts,。
and that means to practice forgiveness.。
Because once again, I want to remind you,。
forgiveness removes all the barriers between us,。
between God and us and between you and I.。
And, you know, my prayer has always been that。
if Christians can be known for anything,。
it's not for mistakes, it's not for hypocrisy,。
or, you know, what we didn't do, didn't say,。
but I pray that Christians would be known。
for our forgiveness, that they would see Christ。
because in how we choose to forgive,。
because God has forgiven us.。
So, church, if I can sum up the last 25 minutes,。
I would say today is really about the work of God。
and the Holy Spirit and what he desires to do in our life.。
In this Advent season, and in every season of our life,。
this baptism of water and the Holy Spirit。
represents his invitation to come on a lifelong journey,。
a pilgrimage, a spiritual journey with the triune God。
who leads us to be truly free,。
to be truly ourselves in his presence every single day.。
So the simple question I ask you is, will you join him?。
Will you let him satisfy you?。
Will you let him address you and transform you?。
Will you allow him to immerse himself and his love upon you?。
Closing, in closing, church, I wanna say this.。
Do you remember the Great Commission?。
What does Jesus say there?。
And I wanna remind you what the Great Commission says.。
He says, "So you must go and make all the nations。
"into disciples, baptizing them in the name of the Father。
"and the Son and the Holy Spirit.。
"Teach them to observe everything I've commanded you,。
"and look, I am with you every single day。
"to the very end of age."。
Note that Jesus calls us to baptize the nations,。
baptize whoever we seize in the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit。
as in we are called as Christians to immerse others。
in everything we know about God,。
everything Jesus has given us,。
everything that the Holy Spirit is showing us,。
we are called to immerse others with this,。
and this is a command.。
And so what I really wanna remind us before we go。
is that our faith must go beyond ourselves.。
We immerse ourselves, we transform, we are changed,。
not for our own sake, but the sake of our neighbor,。
for the sake of our enemy.。
And so having after received God's presence,。
we too then must go out and share the presence of God,。
the love of God, whatever God has given us with others,。
and so that others may know that there is a journey。
that God yearns to bring each of us on.。
And so this is what the Christian life is all about,。
and I pray that the Spirit will lead you。
from wherever you are today to walk with Him.。
Church, can we pray?。
Father, you say if we confess our sins, you are faithful,。
you are just, and you will forgive us and will cleanse us.。
You will wash us thoroughly from all that cages us。
and causes us to be stuck.。
You will free us, you will be able to make us whole again.。
So God, today, right now, we ask that you create in us。
a renewed spirit.。
Father, would your Spirit come and dwell in us.。
Immerse us, Lord God.。
Father, let us be with you.。
Wherever you are, we confess we want to follow。
and be with you.。
And Lord, as children, we ask, Lord God,。
that the one thing is that you would make yourself real。
to us today, right now.。
Whatever it takes, Lord God, to get our attention,。
Father, I pray that at the end of today, before we sleep,。
our hearts would say, Lord, you are the living God.。
You, I will follow.。
You, I will learn more about.。
And one day, I might follow you,。
or maybe we'll say, Lord, thank you for being with me.。
Thank you for immersing me.。
Thank you for reminding me that I'm not alone,。
that I don't struggle alone.。
I don't go through anything alone because you are with me.。
And so Jesus, this is our prayer.。
In your beautiful name, would you continue to speak to us。
every single moment you give to us in this precious life.。
And Lord, teach us to steward and treasure。
the greatest treasure we will ever, ever receive,。
and that is you.。
In your name we pray, amen.。
(gentle music)。
