We pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, amen, amen.。
Have a seat.。
I'm so excited to be with you this morning.。
My name's Andrew, I'm one of the pastors here.。
So if this is relatively one of your first times at The Vine,。
we're so glad that you're here.。
I'm really blessed.。
Sandra's in the house here today.。
Sandra and John founded The Vine,。
led The Vine for many years.。
Thanks for being with us, Sandra.。
We love you.。
Justine is back.。
So nice to see Justine as well.。
And I know that there are so many other people。
that are visiting with us.。
Joe, my mate from the UK, sounds so British, doesn't he?。
You love him.。
Yeah, mate, yeah.。
But we know also you may be new as well.。
So grateful to have you with us.。
We're in part two of a three-part series on justice,。
and in particular, on God's heart for justice.。
And what we've been saying over these weeks。
is that what we're teaching in you last week,。
this week, next week, are foundational messages。
for who we are as The Vine.。
We feel here at The Vine that we've been called。
as a church to put justice in God's heart,。
to justice and for justice,。
at the center of what we do as a community.。
And so if this is your home already,。
or if this is going to become your home,。
then you're gonna hear us talk a lot。
about the realities of the poor and the broken。
and the vulnerable in our society,。
in our city, in the situation that we're here with.。
And we're gonna challenge one another。
to be the church to the city that is around us.。
And so last week, as we started this series,。
I started by giving you a theology of justice.。
I wanted us to really understand。
how justice sits at the heart。
of the biblical redemptive narrative。
that we have in Scripture.。
And so we literally went from Genesis to Revelation,。
unpacking the idea that the gospel,。
and this is really important, church,。
that the gospel is not just the restoration。
of my relationship with God, as important as that is.。
That's certainly a central part of the gospel.。
What we see in Scripture,。
that the gospel is the restoration。
of not just a broken relationship here,。
but also a broken relationship here.。
That if the gospel truly brings shalom,。
then the gospel has to rectify。
the four broken relational contexts。
that we see happen in Genesis 1, 2, and 3.。
And we looked last week, didn't we,。
that in Genesis 1 and 2, God creates humanity。
as the pinnacle of his heart,。
labels humanity as the image of God,。
and then defines for humanity what is right and wrong.。
We said last week that God is the one。
who defines for us what is right and wrong.。
And then God creates four relational contexts。
by which we express the right and wrong of the Father.。
That's our relationship with God,。
our relationship with ourselves,。
our relationship with others,。
and our relationship with creation.。
So in Genesis 1 and 2,。
we see these beautiful relational contexts created.。
And at the end of Genesis 2, God stands back from that,。
and he says those words, doesn't he?。
He says, "This is shalom.。
This is the way things were meant to be.。
The world is now designed and is flourishing。
in the way in which it was created to be."。
And then of course, we saw Genesis 3,。
the intaking of sin, Satan's tricking of humanity。
to think that they shouldn't just be image of God,。
but they can be gods themselves.。
And in taking that fruit, what we see straight away。
is that humanity now begins to define。
what is right and wrong.。
Where in Genesis 1 and 2,。
God defines what is right and wrong,。
in Genesis 3, humanity begins to take on the ability。
or thinks that it has the ability。
to define what is right and wrong.。
And we said last week that when humanity defines。
what is right and wrong rather than the divine,。
we will always define it in a way that benefits ourselves.。
Like myself, not you.。
Like I will define it in a way。
where I will have an advantage over others。
and where there'll be self-preservation.。
So last week we saw Adam throwing his wife。
immediately under the bus.。
When God shows up,。
that brokenness of relationship begins to happen,。
and we begin to create right and wrong。
in the way that we want it for the benefit of ourselves.。
And injustice is born.。
And then we saw, of course,。
that God begins to restore this。
through the calling of a nation, Israel through Abraham.。
We saw that importance of justice and righteousness,。
the reality that those things work together。
within that nation, and yet also the idea of wickedness.。
And we said last week, didn't we,。
that the wickedness or the way of injustice is wicked.。
And the wicked in the Old Testament,。
basically are willing to disadvantage the community。
for the advantage of themselves.。
Whereas the justice and righteous。
are willing to disadvantage themselves。
for the advantage of the community.。
And so you get this beautiful picture。
in the Old Testament of what scripture calls us to。
in this idea of justice,。
but it's just beginning to be modelled for them.。
And then we see the Exodus,。
and in the Exodus is that model that begins to happen.。
God takes his oppressed people in compassion.。
He advocates on their behalf.。
Then he acts to bring them out of their slavery,。
and he provides for them that great place。
of future flourishing in the promised land.。
And so we see the Exodus story as God's model.。
He's beginning to show his people。
what this justice journey can look like.。
But again, we saw in the Old Testament。
that there is this cycle of injustice,。
that even though God is beginning to model it,。
even though God is beginning to redefine。
the right and wrong for his people,。
the people are so steeped in sin,。
it so easily has entangled them,。
that they realise by the end of the Old Testament。
that they can't do it.。
They can't fix that relationship with God.。
They can't fix the relationship with themselves.。
They can't fix the relationship with others,。
and they certainly can't fix the relationship。
with the broken world around us.。
And so there's this crying out。
at the end of the Old Testament, right?。
There's this desire for God to step in。
and do what only God can do,。
'cause humanity cannot do it.。
And then Jesus, this beautiful incarnation,。
fully God and fully human,。
the spoke that is driven in that wheel of injustice。
to borrow Dietrich Bonhoeffer's beautiful picture.。
And Jesus, because he's fully God and fully human,。
he is the spoke 'cause he's fully God,。
but then he's able to deal with sin 'cause he's fully human.。
And being those two things together,。
he begins to model for us a new way.。
Again, advocacy, again, work in action with his miracles。
and the way that he serves and he teaches.。
And then that moment on the cross,。
the moment on the cross where he gives his life。
so that we might know the fullness of life,。
where he pays that price for the redemption of our sin,。
the blood poured out, the sacrifice once and for all,。
so that sin no longer has the final say.。
And then in his resurrection,。
the creating of a new community, the church,。
a community that he fills with his spirit。
and sends out into the world to now be his hands and feet,。
to disciple the nations,。
to bring them into a new way of thinking.。
And all of the New Testament centers this。
on this idea of the gospel,。
that the gospel is not just about the restoration。
of my relationship with God alone, as central as that is,。
but as that relationship is also then healed and restored.。
Then I have a restored relationship with myself.。
I no longer consider myself a slave,。
but I am a child of God.。
I then have a restored relationship with those around me.。
I've been brought into a family together。
and now there is peace amongst us as a community.。
And then because creation has been groaning,。
but now it will no longer groan。
because Christ on the cross has paid the price。
and creation itself longing for its own redemption.。
And the gospel, if it is the gospel,。
if it is a gospel that brings shalom,。
if it's a gospel that deals with the brokenness of sin,。
can't just fix this.。
It has to also fix this, fix this and fix that.。
That's the whole gospel.。
That was all last week in about five seconds for you.。
Okay, so if that was helpful for you,。
or if you're like,。
I need to understand that a little bit more,。
can I invite you to go back last week。
and have a listen to that message?。
But basically that's what we taught.。
There's a biblical mandate for justice.。
It sits at the heart of the gospel.。
It's the restoration of all of those broken contexts.。
So now we stand here in week two,。
and here's the question we should all be asking.。
If that is true, how should we now live?。
Like, how do I now live in this world if that's the gospel?。
If we here at the Vine are gonna say,。
we're people of the gospel,。
if I'm saying that being a person of the gospel。
is to be involved somehow in the restoration of four。
of those relational contexts, how do I now live?。
Like, what should be my agenda?。
What should be my priorities?。
Like, what should I be focused on in the here and now?。
I'm not just waiting till I die to go to heaven.。
Like, I've got something to do now.。
God's peeled the curtain back at the end of all things。
in Revelation 21 and 22.。
And he's shown us a picture of every knee bowing,。
every tongue and tribe confessing.。
He's shown us a picture where sin is no longer present,。
where the leaves of the trees are for the healing,。
where there's that one tree of the tree of life,。
no more the tree of the knowledge of the new.。
He's peeled it back, and he's saying to us,。
live on behalf of that vision now.。
So if God's heart is the restoration of all things,。
the renewal of all things, if God's heart is justice,。
how should we now live?。
I wanna challenge us by saying this as direct as I can.。
You cannot call yourself a Christian。
and remain distant to the injustice in society around you.。
You cannot call yourself a Christian。
if you're not on behalf of the gospel.。
And if the gospel is the restoration。
of all of those broken relational contexts,。
and if justice sits in the heart of that,。
and if that's where God is taking us。
at the end of all things in Revelation 21 and 22,。
if we're not on behalf of that now,。
you should stop calling yourself a Christian.。
Because being centered in Christ。
means that I am centered in a context。
by which it is painful and dying and hurting,。
and sin is doing stuff in it.。
And I stand as a person with Christ in humility,。
knowing I'm not the answer for everything.。
The world is never gonna be perfect until Christ comes back.。
We're living in this now, but not yet,。
but that does not mean I'm mute.。
It does not mean that I haven't got something to say.。
It doesn't mean that the gospel is to wait until he returns.。
No, the gospel has action now.。
And this call upon us as a people of Christ。
is a wonderful thing.。
Paul, when he writes to the church in the New Testament,。
have you ever noticed this?。
Right at the start of the letter,。
he doesn't just say this as it's like a greeting thing.。
He says, "You are in Christ in Ephesus."。
Or he says, "You're in Christ in Colossae,。
"in Christ in Philippi."。
It's basically Paul's way of saying,。
"Don't you realize that your relationship with Jesus。
"is not just in Christ, you're in Christ in a context.。
"You're in Christ in a city.。
"You're in Christ around a whole bunch of people。
"that are desperately in need of the gospel.。
"You're in Christ in Corinth, in Christ in Philippi."。
And I wanna say to you, if you live here in this city,。
you're in Christ in Hong Kong.。
Not just in Christ, as amazing as that is,。
but God has planted you here in Hong Kong.。
He did not do that by mistake.。
None of you, whether you're here for two weeks,。
two months, two years, two decades,。
are here in Hong Kong by mistake.。
Our city desperately needs the gospel.。
There are injustices at work around us.。
And if we're gonna call ourselves a Christian,。
we're gonna realize that our relationship with Jesus。
has something to say to our context.。
I'm in Christ in Hong Kong.。
That should mean something.。
I had the privilege a number of years ago。
of meeting with one of my justice heroes.。
His name's John Perkins,。
and John Perkins was a contemporary。
of Martin Luther King Jr.。
and was very involved with the civil rights movement。
in the '60s.。
And he was speaking to a small group of us pastors。
at this conference I was at,。
and he said this incredible thing.。
He said that the church of Jesus is always at its best。
when it is a community of hope,。
wrapping its arms around a community of pain.。
And if we're in Christ in Hong Kong,。
and if we're the people of the gospel in this city,。
then we should be asking ourselves,。
we have the hope.。
And we just sung about it.。
The joy of the Lord is our strength.。
Not our great ability to sort out。
all the problems in the world,。
not our wonderful strategies.。
No, our strength is the joy of the gospel.。
The fact that we have been reconciled to God,。
reconciled to ourselves,。
reconciled to others,。
reconciled to creation.。
And we have that message for everyone.。
And that should motivate us.。
That should put something inside of us.。
That should ask us to go,。
okay, we are the community of hope.。
I get that piece.。
What's the pain?。
Because if we're to be a church。
that's wrapping its arms around the pain,。
we need to know what is the brokenness?。
What is the injustice?。
What is the suffering?。
What is the pain around us。
that we can wrap ourselves around?。
So what I wanna do is just share with you。
just some like high level ideas about that for us。
and for our city.。
And I wanna do that in the framework。
of this idea of us and God,。
us and ourselves, us and others,。
us and creation.。
Let's start with us and God.。
This one should move your heart immediately.。
Latest government statistics would say。
16% of our city believe Jesus,。
have a relationship with Jesus,。
or would call themselves Christian.。
16%.。
Now, if you just look at people。
who regularly attend church on a Sunday,。
well done, thank you, you're here,。
that drops to 8%.。
Now, this is a statistic。
that should really move your heart.。
84% of our city do not know Jesus, 84%.。
The church has been in Hong Kong for over 100 years.。
I mean, even longer than that.。
I mean, there's 1700 registered churches。
in our city right now.。
And 84% of the people in this city don't know Jesus,。
that should burn something inside of you.。
That should place a holy discontent inside of us.。
That church is not about some holy huddle。
coming in and experiencing。
what we've experienced here this morning,。
as great as that is.。
And we love gathering here.。
But if this is all it is,。
that 84% is not gonna change.。
What we do when we gather here。
is we are sent ones.。
We come and we worship and we experience。
and we weep and we cry and we pray。
and we fill ourselves with love。
so that we then go and serve。
the context we have been placed in.。
That 84% should do something in our spirits.。
What about us and ourselves?。
One of the things that we've noticed recently。
is the mental health related issues in our city。
more than anything.。
And what you can see here is that。
one in six people in Hong Kong。
have what's called common mental health challenges.。
One in six adults in our city.。
When you break that down to just youth,。
six years old to 17, that's one in four.。
60% of the global suicides in the world happen in Asia.。
Hong Kong ranks third on a list, on that list.。
That's a list we do not want to be ranking on.。
We rank third on that list,。
only behind South Korea number one, Japan number two.。
Last year or in 2023,。
there were 1,092 suicides in our city.。
That should do something to us.。
On the mental health side,。
the WHO organization would tell you。
that you need about 10 psychiatrists。
for every 100,000 people.。
Hong Kong currently has 4.1 psychiatrists.。
I don't know what the .1 is, that's weird.。
But anyway, 4.1 psychiatrists。
to every 100,000 people in our city.。
UBS did a research report recently,。
and they looked at the average working hours in Hong Kong.。
Hong Kong has 50 hours of average work week.。
The global average is 36 hours.。
I want to plant a church in one of the cities。
where 36 hours is the, come on church.。
We live in a city that is driving its people。
way, way too hard.。
What about us and others?。
This is really important that we understand。
the poverty context of our city.。
20% of Hong Kong people。
live below the poverty line in this city.。
We always think Hong Kong is a wealthy place.。
That's one point, almost 1.4 million people。
out of 8 million live under the poverty line。
here in Hong Kong.。
When you take the poorest person in Hong Kong。
and the wealthiest person,。
there's an 81.9X kind of difference between the two.。
Now, here's the crazy thing.。
When you did that statistic in 2019,。
that difference was only 44%.。
So in the last, what, five years,。
it's gone from being a 44% difference。
to an 81.9% difference.。
In other words, Hong Kong is getting further apart。
between the wealthy and the poor.。
The Gini coefficient is a global standard。
to help to kind of signify the wealth-poor gap.。
Hong Kong's current Gini coefficient is 0.54.。
Zero would be perfectly equal, one being the worst.。
We're right in the middle, 0.54.。
But hear this, that puts us in the top 10。
of places in the world。
in terms of the gap between the poor and the wealthy.。
Right now, it takes 5.3 years on average。
for somebody to get into public housing in Hong Kong.。
200,000 people in our city。
are living in less than 100 square foot.。
Now, here's the thing.。
Special education needs.。
A lot of children in our city。
are struggling under disability or special education needs.。
Currently, right now, there are 50,000 people,。
children, that will require。
at least 12 therapy sessions a year.。
That's a total cost of $430 million,。
and most of that money is not being made available。
in the public sector.。
Now, this should shock us when we realize。
that Hong Kong's current financial fiscal reserves。
is $724.8 billion,。
which will increase to $983 million by 2028.。
That's the prediction.。
In other words, our issue is not resource.。
It's distribution of that resource.。
And what about finally us in creation?。
Have a look at this.。
Hong Kong currently produces around about 4 million tons。
of what's called metropolis,。
it's kind of like metropolis social waste。
or something like that.。
But it's basically the waste that we create,。
4 million tons of it,。
of which on average is 1.44 kg per person per day.。
I'm glad to report that Singapore is higher at 1.88 kg。
per person per day.。
But the joke hides the reality。
that we're still one of the highest.。
That places us within the top 20 cities in the world.。
Now, here's the thing that should really wake us。
as a church, as a community.。
1.3 million tons of that is food waste alone.。
A third of our waste is food waste.。
What that means is that we love to eat,。
we love to order everything on the menu,。
and we do not eat it all.。
I'm gonna say that one more time。
'cause some of us, myself, needed to hear this.。
We love to eat, we order everything on the menu,。
but we do not eat it all.。
And when we're giving a third of our waste is food,。
that needs something for us to be really thinking about.。
On the positive side, I wanna say this.。
The government has done some great work。
in the area of recycling and are continuing。
to do a good work in the area of recycling.。
Right now, about 32% of our created waste a year。
is recycled here in Hong Kong.。
That's not where we want it to be overall,。
but that is much better than the less than 12%。
some five years ago.。
So Hong Kong has done a good job,。
and the government have some policies in place。
to try to change the recycling dynamics of our city.。
In terms of pollution, 20 days last year,。
we're dedicated as like dangerous levels of pollution.。
We're currently ranked about 63rd, I think it is,。
out of a global index of 138 countries。
when it comes to pollution.。
So pollution continues to be a challenge in our city.。
Now, the reason why I wanna show you some of those things。
is because that's really important that we understand。
what is the pain that we need to be wrapping。
our arms of hope around.。
But when we see statistics like that,。
it would be easy for us to feel a bit despondent.。
It'd be easy for us to feel like,。
well, that's like a lot of bad stuff.。
I don't know how to respond to those statistics, Andrew.。
I don't know what to do.。
I'm feeling pretty weighed down by it.。
And oftentimes what happens for us。
when we hear stuff like this。
is that we retreat further rather than press in.。
And I wanna say that, yes, the statistics are quite strong,。
but we have to hear this.。
We are the community of hope.。
Like if anybody has the answer to this,。
then surely it's the local church。
and its partnership with the many NGOs。
that do great work in our city.。
That should be the starting point for our thinking.。
Yes, these statistics are shocking。
and they should shake something within us,。
but not shake us to despondency, shake us to action.。
They should make us wanna stand up more,。
want us to be more Christian in our city,。
want us to live the hope of the gospel more.。
Now you have to understand that for justice to happen。
in areas of injustice in society,。
basically sociologists will tell you。
that four things need to happen.。
Education, connectedness, adaptability, and resource.。
These four things are central to any transformation。
of any brokenness in society.。
Education, connectedness, adaptability, and resource.。
What we have to understand is that we're living in a time。
where all four of those things。
are the best that they've ever been.。
So if these are the four things that are helpful for us。
when it thinks about changing society。
and doing something right within the society around us,。
we gotta realize that those four things,。
I mean, we've never been more educated。
as a generation than right now.。
Our access to education and to information。
has never been higher.。
In fact, all the statistics I just showed you。
on the screen, I got from AI.。
Now I want you, I checked the sources, okay?。
So it wasn't just like hallucinating AI, okay?。
These are good statistics from AI, but I went to AI.。
I mean, we're the most educated generation。
there has ever been.。
We have access to information like never before.。
What about when it comes to this idea of our connectedness?。
We're more connected than we have ever been before.。
Now, yes, there's a whole thing around being more connected,。
but never feeling more alone.。
That's a whole nother sermon we'll come to at some point.。
But the reality is we're more connected amongst each other.。
We have the ability to connect like never before.。
Adaptability, because we have this education。
and connectedness, we are people of the world。
more than we've ever been in terms of global citizenships.。
We understand culture and background and people。
better than ever before.。
We understand the ways in which different nations operate。
better than ever before.。
So we are more adaptable to the realities of our world。
than we've ever been.。
And finally, resource.。
I mean, you just saw in even the statistics for Hong Kong,。
our issue is not resources.。
Incredible amounts of resources.。
There's more resource generated in the world。
than in any other time in history right now.。
But that resource is not going to the places。
where it necessarily needs to go.。
So here's the thing.。
While we might want to be despondent,。
we are actually better equipped now to rise up。
and do the things that we can do to begin to shape the world。
to the gospel like never before.。
The question then is how.。
How do we do it?。
Like we know we've got, follow me, follow me.。
We've got a theological mandate to do it.。
The gospel tells us we should be doing it.。
We know that we are in Christ in context。
and we've been planted here in Hong Kong.。
We've seen that there is pain。
and we are called to be a community of hope.。
How do we do it?。
Like how do we do it?。
Not just on a corporate level, like an institutional level,。
like a church level.。
How do you do it?。
Because every single one of us in this room,。
we have a spirit of influence。
where there is some injustice currently at work.。
Some of you, it might be your family.。
Maybe there's a breakdown in a relationship。
in your family right now。
and it's causing a lot of suffering and pain。
within the broader family dynamic.。
Maybe for some of you, it's a school that you attend。
or a university you're a part of。
and you see some things happening there。
that break your heart.。
Maybe you're working for an organization or a corporate。
and you know that there are practices happening。
within your business that you know is creating a bigger gap。
between the wealthy and the poor.。
Or whatever it might be,。
for all of us it will look different,。
but every single one of us,。
we are in Christ in that company,。
in Christ in that family,。
in Christ in that context,。
and we have to do something.。
What is it that we do?。
Okay, so to help you,。
I wanna just, in the time I've got left,。
just show you a really short, quick model。
of how we can actually live more justly。
based on what we've been talking about.。
And I wanna do it, of course,。
by looking at Jesus and this moment in Jesus's life.。
And I think in this moment in Jesus's life,。
Jesus models for us how we can approach our context,。
our sphere of movements,。
whatever justice issue might be there for us.。
And in this beautiful moment of Jesus's life,。
he shows us four things that he does.。
And I'm just gonna break these down real fast.。
This is out of, I'm gonna turn back to it.。
It's out of Luke chapter 19.。
This is his triumphal entry as he enters into Jerusalem.。
Notice what it says here.。
This is Luke 19, starting in verse 41 to verse 44.。
As Jesus approached Jerusalem,。
he saw the city and he wept over it.。
And he said this,。
"If you, even you had known on this day。
"what would bring you peace,。
"but now it is hidden from your eyes.。
"For the days will come upon you。
"when your enemies will build an embankment against you。
"and encircle you and hem you in on every side.。
"They will dash you to the ground,。
"you and the children within your walls.。
"They will not leave one stone on another。
"because you did not recognize。
"the time of God's coming for you."。
This is a significant moment in Jesus's ministry.。
We know from the scriptures。
that Jesus had a long relationship with Jerusalem.。
In fact, he was there at eight days old meeting there。
and Simeon and Anna prayed over him, prophesied over him.。
We know that he was back there for his bar mitzvah。
when he was about 13,。
where he stayed behind at the temple。
and his parents lost him, a nightmare for them.。
And he had to be in his father's house, that whole thing.。
But we also know that from the beginning。
of his actual ministry,。
Jesus has specifically stayed away from Jerusalem.。
He's been ministering in Galilee and Samaria。
and the surrounding areas,。
but he's been staying away from Jerusalem.。
And he's been staying away from Jerusalem。
'cause he understands that when he gets to Jerusalem,。
things will begin, things will precipitate。
towards the cross.。
And he knows because of that,。
he needs to make sure that he does the work。
that he's been called to do before he gets there.。
And so the turning point in the gospel of Luke。
is when Jesus says to the disciples,。
"Who do people say I am?"。
And the disciples respond, they say,。
well, Peter responds, he says,。
"You're the Christ, you're the Messiah."。
And then Luke records for us。
that it was from that moment。
that Jesus sets his face towards Jerusalem,。
walking, wanting to now be and reconnect with his city.。
And here Luke describes the moment。
where Jesus crests up the hill of Mount Olives。
and looks upon his city for the first time。
in what was probably a number of years.。
And it says here, he does four things.。
I wanna show you what these four things are。
because these become the kind of nucleus。
of a model for justice for each one of us.。
The first thing Luke says is that he approaches.。
Now that might sound like not a big deal on itself,。
but I want you to think about this.。
Jesus, again, he understood that when he gets to Jerusalem,。
things are gonna kind of happen。
that will lead him to his death.。
He understands that when he gets there,。
the people in the triumphal entry。
who were shouting, "Hosanna, Hosanna,"。
would later be the ones that would be shouting,。
"Crucify him."。
He knew that what he was about to say。
and do around the temple。
was going to basically give people the excuse。
that they needed to try to get him hung on a Roman cross.。
But Jesus still approaches.。
And this is really important。
because Jesus understands the pain that is about to come,。
but he doesn't stay away.。
In other words, Jesus makes a priority of proximity.。
He says, "I'm gonna come to this city now。
at the right time and the right way,。
but I'm gonna approach it。
even though I know it's gonna be painful,。
even though I know it's gonna be hard,。
even though I know I'm gonna get rejected,。
even though ultimately it's gonna lead to my death,。
and everything inside of me would want me to stay away。
and just judge Jerusalem from Galilee.。
I'm not gonna do that."。
And he puts himself in a place of proximity with his city.。
For some of you, there's a justice issue,。
an injustice in your family,。
an injustice in your workplace,。
and it scares you to think。
that you might need to be involved in it.。
And that's understandable。
'cause these things can be tough and scary.。
But what Jesus models for us immediately is proximity.。
The whole gospel is a relationship gospel.。
And one of the things that Christians are really bad at。
is talking on behalf of the poor。
without knowing any of the poor.。
Talking on behalf of the vulnerable,。
the trafficked, the marginalized,。
without even knowing any of them,。
having never met them, having never seen them,。
having never put themselves in a place。
of understanding their suffering and their pain,。
but just standing back and saying,。
"Well, I guess I should speak for them."。
But then we speak for them in dangerous ways.。
Jesus draws near.。
Some of you, it's gonna be painful to draw near,。
but we have to always put proximity over productivity.。
Productivity without proximity leads to pain.。
But when we are close, when we approach,。
we find ourselves in a place。
where we can begin to do something.。
What does Jesus do?。
Well, the next thing it says is that he sees Jerusalem.。
I love this because at first, this is physical.。
He's just come up and he's crested the Mount Olives。
and he looks upon it and said,。
now what he would have seen, I've actually done,。
you can go to Jerusalem。
and actually do the walk that Jesus did.。
And you go up there and you see the olive trees。
that are still there around the area of Mount Olives.。
They're still there to this day.。
And then you can look on the view that Jesus had.。
And it's relatively similar.。
There's still the walls of the old city there.。
There's the old city on Mount Zion.。
There's the, now it's a mosque, of course,。
but in Jesus's day, there was the temple right there.。
So you can kind of get a sense of what Jesus was seeing.。
And he crests and he physically sees what's before him.。
Now, what I've done for you here in this message。
is I've enabled you to crest a hill。
and physically see some things。
that are happening in Hong Kong.。
Statistics, stuff that's important for us to be aware of,。
stuff happening in mental health in our city,。
stuff happening in the pollution index and all that stuff.。
So all that stuff we went through,。
that was us physically seeing what's happening in our city.。
Does that make sense?。
Now, here's the thing though.。
If that's all we do, just physically see。
the stuff that's happening in our city,。
educate ourselves and get good statistics,。
that's all helpful.。
But if that's all we ever do,。
we're no better than a secular NGO.。
The thing that makes us Christians。
is we do what then Jesus does,。
which he doesn't just see physically,。
but he sees spiritually.。
'Cause he looks over his city physically,。
but then he sees prophetically。
what's gonna happen to that city in 70 AD.。
He sees Emperor Nero coming in。
and destroying many of the Christians,。
killing many of the people.。
And he says, "If only you knew the peace。
"that comes before you now,。
"but it's hidden from you."。
So he doesn't just see the physical realities,。
he sees the spiritual stuff。
and not just the spiritual bad stuff,。
but also the spiritual good stuff,。
the hope that is there.。
And what we're modeled here by Jesus。
is that we're called to approach,。
be proximate, be in relationship,。
but we're also called to see physically,。
educate yourself, learn about the issue,。
know the statistics, but then pray and say,。
"Lord, what breaks your heart?"。
Because I see that there are 60%。
of the global suicides in Asia,。
and I see that Hong Kong is third on that list,。
and that does something to me.。
But Lord, I come to you。
'cause I wanna see this issue from your eyes now.。
I wanna get a burden in my heart。
for what breaks your heart.。
We sang it earlier, didn't we?。
Give me a heart that is after your heart.。
That's the seeing spiritually, not just physically.。
Otherwise, we're no better than a secular NGO.。
And we're the church that has the hope of the world。
and the gospel of life.。
Then Jesus does this next thing.。
Luke describes him as weeping.。
He weeps.。
Now, the Greek word that Luke uses is kaleo.。
It literally means loud wailing or big sobbing.。
Like, in other words,。
Jesus has not crest that hill。
and look at Jerusalem and go.。
He crest that hill,。
and remember, he's surrounded by people,。
and he starts wailing.。
And I can imagine him shaking his fist。
and he's crying.。
Maybe he falls to his knees.。
We don't know exactly what happened,。
but there's a kaleo taking place in this man.。
He's not just wiping away a couple of tears.。
He is publicly travailing for his people.。
He's feeling something inside of him。
for their pain, their suffering, their struggles.。
A man who's about to experience the greatest pain of all,。
he's first kind of on his knees。
on behalf of people that are suffering.。
This is the idea of empathy.。
I want you to see this because this is really important.。
When we approach and we see,。
and if we stop at see,。
what we've experienced is sympathy.。
Oh, okay.。
Yeah, Andrew showed some statistics today。
about suicides in Hong Kong.。
Man, yeah, I'm kind of bummed about that.。
You know, like that's not great.。
Yeah, man, I'm glad I know that now.。
But that's just sympathy.。
Jesus moves from sympathy to a place of empathy.。
Empathy is like, I wanna feel what those parents have felt。
when their child has killed themselves.。
I wanna feel what those that are trafficked。
into our city are feeling in terms of what's going on.。
And they're like, I wanna have some.。
And look, you cannot have empathy unless you approach.。
Are you following this?。
You can't have this unless you've done a bit of this.。
You've gotta understand the issue,。
but then you've gotta make sure that you feel it.。
This is where prayer also becomes very important.。
We weep.。
Now that doesn't mean some of us。
will actually literally weep,。
but we can weep in our spirit.。
There's a holy discontent inside of me。
that this world is not as Christ would want it to be,。
that there is not the shalom。
that Jesus died on the cross for.。
And that moves me, that does something to me.。
And I cry out in that place of pain。
to the one that can only fix it.。
So this weeping of Jesus was central。
to this work of justice that he was about to do.。
But notice, he then speaks.。
Now this is really great,。
'cause eventually Jesus then after weeping,。
after approaching and being proximate,。
seeing physically and spiritually and empathizing,。
he then moves into what I would say is compassion.。
See, empathy without action is just empathy.。
Empathy with action is compassion.。
It's like we've taken this place of empathy。
and we've begun to actually do something, work something,。
say something, be something, act in a certain way,。
suddenly have different consuming habits,。
suddenly recycle more at home.。
Whatever it might be, it might be a small thing。
or a big thing, but we've begun to,。
hey, I've approached this issue,。
I've seen it physically and spiritually,。
I've felt something for it,。
there's something in my spirit that's not right about it.。
I've brought it to Jesus, I'm praying,。
but I'm also now going to speak, act, do something。
that aligns myself to being a person of the gospel,。
one that restores all of those break-on relational contexts.。
That's what I want to do.。
So Jesus provides for us, I think, simply and beautifully,。
this model that we can all apply into our lives,。
whether it's a big issue or a small issue,。
something in our family, something in our workplace,。
the first thing we should do is I want to approach.。
But here's the problem a lot of Christians make,。
the mistake we make, we approach。
and we jump straight to speak.。
Oh, we love to do this as Christians.。
Like we like to show up somewhere and approach something。
and just tell everybody what we think about it.。
I tell you what, there is a lot of damage。
that has been done over church history。
by Christians that have approached really important issues。
and just begun to speak。
and have bypassed what Jesus models for us.。
Jesus didn't just approach his city。
and begin to declare something over them,。
even though he had every right to do so,。
Jesus shows us something.。
Now, here's the next thing though,。
a lot of Christians might approach。
and then educate themselves about the issue。
and then they jump straight to speaking.。
That's even worse because this one is ignorance.。
And there's some damage that can be done through ignorance,。
but I tell you what, this is judgment.。
And a lot of damage is done。
through the church through judgment.。
'Cause it's like I've approached, I've learned,。
I've seen there's a physical, there's a spiritual,。
and now let me tell you what God thinks about your sin.。
Let me tell you what God thinks about your brokenness.。
And we become a church that wags its finger.。
Jesus doesn't show up to his city。
and he's got some pretty strong things to say to them.。
He's about to go to the temple。
and like whip people around, okay?。
Like this is not safe, cuddly Jesus time.。
He's got some strong stuff to say,。
but I want you to see something.。
He does not approach, see, and then jump straight to speak.。
Jesus weeps, he feels something.。
He allows to put himself in the pain of the people。
that he sees spiritually.。
He feels that emotion inside of him so that he knows,。
man, this is what the pain is like.。
This is what the brokenness is like.。
Man, I'm not gonna stand from a distance。
and judge with a finger.。
I'm on my knees 'cause I feel it with them.。
I feel the longing inside of them for their freedom.。
Lord, would you bring them free?。
But notice also, Jesus doesn't just stop at the weeping.。
I think we do this as a church as well.。
Oh, we come in on a Sunday, Lord,。
Lord, save our city.。
And then we never share the gospel with anyone.。
See, the problem is we can get paralysis by analysis.。
Are you with me?。
And we can get paralysis by being over-emotional.。
Jesus goes all the way through that and then he speaks.。
He allows the thing to impact and affect him.。
And then he stands up and he says,。
oh, Jerusalem, that only you knew.。
And then he begins to act in ways throughout the whole week。
that would reinforce the gospel。
that he's bringing the hope of the world.。
And then he goes to the cross and then he rises。
and he changes everything.。
My friends, whether you have a problem in your family,。
whether you see an injustice at work,。
whether there's something in those statistics。
where you're like, I wanna learn more about that.。
Can I say that this applies to it all?。
Don't be distant.。
Educate yourself, but don't forget to pray.。
Feel what it is that's going on for the people of our city.。
Learn from their perspective, hear their voices,。
understand their pain.。
And then by the guidance of the Holy Spirit,。
do what he calls you to do.。
Approach, see, weep, speak.。
When we do that, we begin to show the world the whole gospel.。
Amen, amen.。
[congregation applauding]。
All right, can I invite you to stand?。
I wanna pray for us here this morning.。
I wonder whether you just quiet your heart,。
open your hands,。
just allow the Holy Spirit just to speak to you.。
Lord, I wanna pray that you would show each person here。
just one thing in their sphere of influence.。
Maybe some of you in this room,。
you know what it is immediately,。
where there's an injustice around you。
that you know the Holy Spirit might be wanting to use you in.。
But perhaps for many of us, we're not aware immediately.。
Just take a moment.。
Come Holy Spirit, come.。
Father, I pray that you would speak.。
I pray that you would show.。
Lord, I thank you that every single person here,。
they're not perfect.。
They're not gonna have all the answers。
or they're gonna make mistakes along the way.。
I've made plenty.。
But Lord, I pray that they would approach, see, weep,。
and speak with courage and boldness。
as your Spirit leads them.。
Lord, I pray that this would change those statistics。
that we looked at today.。
Lord, we're not satisfied with just 16% of our city。
knowing you.。
Lord, would you bring revival in Hong Kong?。
Lord, we're not satisfied with the mental health issue.。
We had a viral pandemic.。
We have a mental health pandemic now.。
Lord, would you do help us to be people who weep。
with our brothers and sisters。
that are struggling in this time?。
We thank you for work like Oasis。
and other things that the Vine does to help in that space.。
But Lord, would you give us a fresh voice?。
Father, I wanna pray particularly for the weeping。
for people in this room.。
Not a weeping that leads to sorrow, that leads to retreat,。
but a weeping that is a godly sorrow。
that catalyzes into action.。
And Father, as we find that within us by your Spirit,。
not made by our own strength,。
Father, we thank you that empathy moves to compassion.。
And we thank you that in whatever area。
that you might be leading us into,。
we can play a part for the whole gospel in our city.。
Lord, I pray that this would be a fire lit for the Vine。
in the season that we're in.。
May it be for your glory and your glory alone.。
And everyone here says, amen.。
Amen.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(man vocalizing)。
[MUSIC]。
