(upbeat music)。
- Good morning, church.。
Good morning, good morning indeed.。
Our sermon series is called Make Room.。
There's a very crowded, we have a lot of people in here today。
so if there is room next to you to make some room,。
could you let us know?。
So if you're sitting in the back,。
there might be some seats down front,。
you can come and join us.。
Come on, come on, come on.。
Yes, let's make room for each other.。
All right, well good morning.。
If you're joining us online,。
a very good morning to you as well.。
Okay, I'm gonna start today with a little Cantonese lesson.。
So if you know Cantonese already, that's great.。
If you're a local Hong Konger,。
but if you don't, okay,。
this is a little saying for you today, okay?。
It goes like this.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Okay, now, as with many Cantonese idioms and sayings,。
the direct translation into English。
doesn't really make much sense, right?。
If you directly translate this phrase,。
it sounds something like,。
why would there be such a big toad。
jumping around on the street, okay?。
Like, it doesn't make sense, right?。
Toads jumping around on the street.。
But the meaning behind it,。
it's something more along the lines of,。
it's too good to be true, right?。
There's no such thing as a free lunch.。
Apparently, maybe once upon a time,。
big toads were very desirable, okay, for food or whatever.。
So, you know, right, it's too good to be true, right?。
It can't be true.。
It's too wonderful.。
It's too good.。
And maybe, you know, you've heard news like that,。
you know, like when you hear news。
that sounds too good to be true at first, right?。
Our initial reaction usually is doubt, right?。
When that doesn't happen.。
No, that's not really gonna happen.。
My biggest doubt in life is getting free upgrades, right,。
when I travel, when I fly, okay?。
I'm always hoping and praying, Lord,。
for that free upgrade, right?。
I do all the tactics.。
Sometimes I dress up a little bit nicer, okay?。
And then you're really kind。
to the person at the check-in desk.。
Oh, wow, you look lovely today, you know?。
It's like, thank you for being so patient with us.。
You know, like, okay.。
And then, you know, so at the end, you know,。
as they're about to put in, it's like,。
is there any chance of an upgrade today?。
You know, just asking, just wondering, right?。
The answer has always, always been no, okay?。
But I hear people's stories, right?。
Then they, like, 45 minutes late to check in, right?。
They're all frazzled, you know, their luggage is everywhere.。
You know, they don't have their passports on them.。
And the end, the check-in person is like,。
oh, you look really stressed out.。
Why don't I upgrade you so you can relax a little bit, right?。
Actually, this happened before me。
in front of my very eyes one time.。
So a few years ago, my wife and I had just been on a,。
we were on a mission trip, okay?。
Doing the Lord's work, okay?。
And it was hot and sweaty.。
It was a really tough trip.。
And we were coming home from Hong Kong, okay?。
So as we were checking in to come home,。
I was in charge of, I don't know why I was put in charge.。
Okay, worst person ever to put in charge.。
Anything administrative, right, Dewey?。
Do not trust me with it.。
But at that moment, they did.。
And I was distributing out the boarding passes.。
And I noticed everyone's number was super low, right?。
Like, single digits.。
One B, three A, six D, stuff like that, right?。
I was like, oh, okay, I think we got upgraded.。
Apart from mine, okay?。
I was in 11 B, okay, 11 B.。
So I was handing out the boarding passes。
and then I said to my wife,。
I think everyone in the group, in the team,。
got upgraded apart from me.。
She's like, oh no, surely not.。
You know, they checked us in together.。
You'll be fine.。
And then she said this, right?。
Even if that happens, I'll come sit with you instead.。
It's like, oh, so sweet.。
Well, we were newlywed at that time, okay?。
So, and so we get on the plane, right?。
And sure enough, okay, as we're going on,。
they were like, okay, Mr. Bennett, yes, to the left, right?。
Oh, Mr. Tsang, to the left.。
Now, to the left is a good thing in planes,。
not in Beyonce songs, right?。
But on the airplane, okay, to the left is a good thing。
'cause that's where the upper classes are, right?。
The upper cabin classes, right?。
And so, you know, they all went to the left。
and when, sure enough, when they got to me,。
they were like, okay, sir, you sit right here, okay?。
I was in the very first row of the business class, right?。
Next to the toilet and the curtain, okay?。
With a screaming child next to me, right?。
You saw what happened to my wife, okay?。
She dropped me like a bad habit.。
The moment she went left and they handed her a cocktail,。
said, oh, Mr. Tsang, here's a mango cocktail。
or whatever it was, and she forgot about me totally, okay?。
Gone, I didn't see her for the rest of the flight, okay?。
You know, and so, you know, this is why, you know,。
like, I doubt, right, do good things really happen?。
Maybe not, okay?。
Now, it's just a funny illustration to start my point,。
but doubt is this thing, right?。
Doubt is a very natural part of our humanity, right?。
And in some ways, doubt is a good thing, right?。
We can't just believe what everyone says all the time, right?。
When we hear lies, when we hear things that are not true,。
when we see misrepresentations of facts and reality,。
not only should we doubt these things,。
but our doubt actually gives us a voice to speak out, right,。
and shed light into injustice and darkness and untruths。
that are being happened around us.。
But what happens when our doubt begins。
to enter our relationship with God?。
And this might be something we all struggle with, too.。
At some point in our walk with Jesus,。
we have doubted His goodness, we have doubted His love,。
we have doubted His power, and how He can relate to us,。
right, especially when we see tragedies unfold before us,。
as we've seen in our city.。
It only makes sense that we ask ourselves the question,。
right, where is God in all of this?。
How could such a loving, powerful God。
allow for something like this to happen?。
Right, these are questions, very real questions。
we as a whole city are wrestling with right now.。
Right, two weeks ago during the fire,。
I'm sure I and many of others of you prayed, right?。
I remember specifically praying for act of God.。
I remember praying, God, just,。
I know it's the driest day of the year so far right now,。
but just somehow form a rain cloud。
over the buildings right now。
and just pour down your rain on it。
so we can put out these fires and we can see lives get saved.。
But that doesn't happen.。
Right, and here, two weeks, three weeks later,。
we're sifting through the damage,。
reeling in the pain and grief and mourning。
of what's happened in our city.。
And when we sit in the aftermath of a tragedy,。
of a disaster, it's very easy for doubt to set in.。
So the question we wanna answer today is this,。
how do we deal with doubt?。
Because when it's unresolved,。
doubt can drive us to a place of despair and hopelessness.。
When we give in to doubt,。
it drives a wedge between us and God.。
When we begin to doubt God's love for us。
so we no longer want to draw near to him,。
we begin to doubt God's plan for us and purposes for us。
so we don't trust him anymore.。
When we begin to question God's goodness and kindness,。
we close our hearts and leave no room for him。
to do his work in our lives.。
And actually, the enemy knows this well.。
Doubt is one of the first things the enemy uses。
to put distance between us and God.。
Right at the very beginning, that was his strategy,。
to make Eve doubt the goodness of God。
and cause her to sin by trusting herself。
instead of trusting what God had told her.。
Eve begins to put doubt on the throne of her heart。
instead of God.。
He comes to her with these tricky questions,。
saying stuff like, did God really say。
you must not eat from any tree in the garden?。
You will not surely die.。
Come on, Eve, just think about it for a minute, right?。
Maybe what God's saying is not true.。
Maybe you should trust in yourself.。
And it was these lies of the Satan,。
these lies of the enemy,。
that caused humanity to doubt God's commands,。
his ways, his love.。
And the consequence of that was sin entering into the world.。
When doubt sits on the throne of our hearts,。
it blinds us to the goodness of God.。
And what we want to do is to take doubt off the throne。
and wrestle with it head on,。
because actually, if we take doubt。
and use it in the correct way,。
it can actually be used for good.。
And I think it's that through doubt。
that we can better understand the realities of sin。
and brokenness in this world and in our lives,。
and draw us closer to God,。
draw us closer to the truth.。
The late leader and pastor, Tim Keller, says it this way.。
A faith without some doubt is like a human body。
without any antibodies.。
People who blithely go through life,。
too busy or indifferent to ask hard questions。
about why they believe as they do,。
will find themselves defenseless。
against either the experience of tragedy。
or the questions of skeptics.。
Believers should acknowledge and wrestle with doubts,。
because this is the kind of doubt that helps us see。
that even through things we might not understand,。
God is still in control.。
He knows what he's doing.。
He still cares, he still loves,。
and even though we might doubt it at times,。
the truth is that with God, all things are still possible.。
And so as we step into week two of Advent。
and look at the person of Zechariah,。
this is the story we see being played out.。
A faithful man of God wrestling with doubt,。
holding on in the end to God's promises。
until they come through in the end.。
So let's turn to the scriptures and see what it says.。
We're in the book of Luke,。
as the lady so beautifully read just now,。
chapter one, verse five.。
It says this.。
In the time of Herod, king of Judea,。
there was a priest named Zechariah。
who belonged to the priestly division of Abijah.。
His wife Elizabeth was also a descendant of Aaron.。
Both of them were righteous in the sight of God,。
observing all the Lord's commands。
and decreased blamelessly.。
But they were childless。
because Elizabeth was not able to conceive。
and they were both very old.。
So Luke describes what the very first Christmas was like.。
He starts his gospel by describing to us。
the very first Christmas.。
Now, in our modern portrayal of Christmas,。
it's always very festive.。
Looks very warm and inviting.。
We look around us, right?。
The team have done a beautiful job。
decorating the whole building, right?。
Today we have the market outside.。
It's very warm and inviting.。
We have the bake sale.。
We have mulled wine next week.。
All this kind of stuff, right?。
You go down to the malls, IFC, Pacific Place.。
It's all like that, right?。
Trees, decorations, cookies, mulled wine, turkey,。
kisses under the mistletoe,。
all this really lovely stuff, right?。
And so it's easy for us to think。
that Christmas is always associated。
with like warm, fuzzy, jolly things.。
But we're reminded in the gospels。
that the first Christmas was far from this.。
And in fact, God's plan of redemption。
when Jesus first came into the world。
starts with a backdrop of doubt, of pain,。
of the people crying out for rescue, right?。
For over 400 years, the Israelites。
were crying out to the Lord, crying out for rescue,。
waiting for this so-called promised Messiah。
to come and rescue them from the oppressors.。
But things just go from bad to worse, right?。
They start with the Assyrians,。
and it goes on to the Babylonians,。
and the Persians, and the Greeks,。
and now the Romans.。
All these foreign forces have been ruling。
over their country.。
And they've been waiting for someone。
to come and restore the kingdom.。
But instead, at the turn of time and time again,。
instead of rescue, just comes more oppression.。
And as Andrew pointed out to us last week,。
this latest ruler they have in this little place in Judea。
was a man called Herod, right?。
A self-proclaimed king of the Jews, right?。
A cruel man who seemed to have no problem。
ordering the execution of innocent babies.。
Now, that doesn't make for good decorations.。
Like could you imagine a specific place right now。
doing a meet King Herod instead of meet Father Christmas?。
Hong Kong's mom Facebook group would go absolutely crazy.。
That's not the kind of stuff, it's not inviting,。
it's not warm, right?。
It's dark, it's real.。
It deals with some of the really bad things。
that are happening around us.。
And after waiting for so long,。
I suspect many had already given in to the doubt.。
And maybe they already said that, you know what?。
It's not gonna happen.。
God's promises aren't gonna come through.。
The Messiah is not coming.。
And it's in the midst of this doubt。
that we find Zechariah and her husband,。
and his wife, right?。
An elderly couple who have been faithfully serving God。
for many years, right?。
Zechariah was one of the priests。
who was serving the Lord in the temple,。
leading the people in worship.。
And Elizabeth, also from a strong Jewish priestly family,。
all the way from one of the descendants of Aarod, right?。
Who was with Moses, leading the people of Israel。
out of Egypt.。
And so basically, you can think of Zechariah and Elizabeth。
like the ultimate pastoral power couple of the time, right?。
Solid background, they say they were righteous。
in the sight of God, observing all of the Lord's commands,。
and decreased blamelessly.。
There's not very many people in the Bible。
that it describes as being blameless.。
But here are these two, blameless before the Lord.。
But even though they were doing all the right things,。
even though they were blameless and righteous,。
even though they had been serving God faithfully。
all these years, there was a dark cloud。
that was hanging over their lives and their marriage, right?。
A shadow of doubt, you could say, that followed them.。
Scripture tells us they were childless.。
Now in those days, childlessness was a symbol of shame。
or even disgrace, right?。
People would have looked, people in the community。
would have looked at Zechariah and Elizabeth。
and seen them as maybe being cursed。
or being punished by God.。
Now Luke makes it very clear that this was not the case,。
right, because they were blameless, they were righteous.。
He goes out of his way to tell us about their character,。
right, so their barrenness was not a punishment。
or a curse from the Lord.。
But it reminds us of this, though,。
that faithful service to God does not always mean。
living in God's blessings.。
We have to remember that, that obeying God's commands。
doesn't always mean that every single prayer of us。
will be answered, that we were gonna live。
these happy, blissful lives all the days of our life.。
And like the nation of Israel that had been waiting。
400 years, Zechariah and Elizabeth had probably。
also given up hope of ever having children of their own.。
They were old now, the chance was gone.。
And I'm sure they nursed this sense of longing。
and emptiness in their hearts,。
a dream of being a parent that had slowly faded away。
as the years went by.。
But notice this, they did not let the doubt。
stop them from serving God with their lives.。
Despite the disappointment and their living。
in the reality of unanswered prayer,。
they remained obedient and devoted to their duty.。
And for those of us listening today,。
maybe you too have been serving God,。
trying your hardest to be obedient and dutiful to Jesus,。
but also like this couple, like Zechariah and Elizabeth,。
you're living with a sense of disappointment.。
You're walking in the reality of unanswered prayer,。
a dream that has fizzled out over the years。
and because you've been waiting for so long,。
the doubt is starting to set in.。
Is God ever gonna come through?。
My encouragement for us today in that is this,。
hold on, hold on to the Lord because at any moment,。
the power of God is gonna break through,。
through your doubts, through your pain,。
through your disappointment.。
And this is what Zechariah is about to experience.。
Let's carry on in the story in scripture。
to see what it tells us.。
Once, and this is verse eight,。
once when Zechariah's division was on duty,。
he was serving as the priest before God.。
He was chosen by Lot according to the custom。
of the priesthood to go into the temple of the Lord。
and burn incense.。
And when the time for the burning of incense came,。
all the assembled worshipers were praying outside.。
So like I said just now, Zechariah's job was a priest.。
He was one of 18 to 20,000 priests。
who would service the temple, right?。
And these priests were divided into teams or divisions,。
24 different divisions.。
These divisions will alternate。
with their duties in the temple.。
So every couple of times a year,。
they would go in and serve the temple.。
And one of the duties was to offer up the incense.。
And the custom was, as I said, right, they cast lots.。
I'm not really sure,。
maybe it's like bones or dice or something like that, right?。
They would cast lots to see who would go in。
and do this job of offering up the incense.。
Now this was offering up the incense in the inner part,。
okay, into the holy place.。
Not quite the holy of holies,。
but further into the temple, right?。
And it was a big deal, a big honor.。
It was a big deal, a once in a lifetime opportunity.。
And so on the surface, right,。
it seems as though this was business as usual.。
This is the way we do things.。
Every time it's our turn, we cast lots,。
someone gets chosen to go into the temple,。
we offer up incense, and then we keep doing our duties.。
But make no mistake, church,。
this entire moment, all that's leading up。
has all been orchestrated by God, right?。
Because this is how God works in the background。
of our lives without us knowing.。
It might have looked like Zechariah。
was just happened to be chosen by lots at that time,。
but the reality was it was God choosing him for this moment.。
And he might not know it yet,。
but Zechariah, as he goes in to offer up the incense,。
his entire reality, his entire life is about to change.。
And this is how God often works in our lives.。
This is what we mean just now.。
When we were singing that song, he doesn't stop working.。
Subtly, quietly, without us being aware,。
he's orchestrating things for us.。
Because our God is a God who knows,。
who sees, who cares, and he works in ways。
that are far better than what we could。
ever come up with ourselves.。
Maybe this is something you have experienced。
in your own life, right?。
You've been in the middle of a struggle,。
and when you're going through that time of darkness。
and doubt and struggle, it's hard to see what God was doing.。
But it's only when you look back sometimes。
that you've seen God's faithfulness at work。
each and every single part of the way。
until you get the full picture.。
And this is what scripture is leading us to.。
Look at what happens next in the story.。
An angel of the Lord then appeared to him,。
this is Zechariah, standing on the right side。
of the altar of incense.。
When Zechariah saw him, he was startled。
and was gripped with fear.。
But the angel said to him, "Do not be afraid, Zechariah.。
"Your prayer has been answered.。
"Your wife, Elizabeth, will bear you a son,。
"and you are to call him John.。
"He will be a joy and delight to you,。
"and many will rejoice because of his birth,。
"for he will be great in the sight of the Lord.。
"He is never to take wine or the fermented drink,。
"and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit。
"even before he is born.。
"He will bring back many of the people of Israel。
"to the Lord their God, and he will go on before the Lord。
"in the spirit and power of Elijah。
"to turn the hearts of the parents to their children。
"and the disobedient to the wisdom of the righteous,。
"and to make ready a people prepared for the Lord."。
Now, every time I read about angelic encounters。
in scripture, something that always bugs me。
is that I don't feel like angels are very empathetic。
to human beings, okay?。
A bit dismissive about our emotions, right?。
Because it's like when they say,。
when your wife is angry, never say,。
"Hey, just calm down," right?。
That's not helpful.。
That was one of the first pieces of advice I get, right?。
This is what I feel like angels are doing。
when they say, "Do not be afraid," right?。
Like, sir, literally, this is the most fearful moment。
of my life.。
I've never seen anything like this.。
Whoever knows what it looks like,。
this bright light or whatever, right?。
If an angel suddenly appeared to me,。
I would think my life was coming to an end, right?。
Although, just do not be afraid, okay?。
But there is no reason to be afraid for Zechariah。
because what, look what he says.。
"I bring you good news."。
Good news, Zechariah.。
Your prayer has been heard.。
Your wife, Elizabeth, will bear you a son,。
and you are to call him John, right?。
Specific, this is actually gonna happen, right?。
You're gonna have a son.。
He's even given a name already.。
So all these years of praying and worshiping。
and wondering if God had ever taken notice of their prayers,。
they had finally been heard.。
Like I said, this was part of God's plan the whole time,。
right, in case you need more evidence, check this out.。
Zechariah's name, do you know what his name means?。
Zechariah's name means God remembers.。
The name John, do you know what the name John means?。
John, the name John means God is gracious.。
God had not forgotten the many years of faithful prayer。
of Zechariah and Elizabeth,。
and now he was gonna be gracious enough to answer them.。
Think about it this way.。
The almighty God who controls the entire universe。
in his hands, who sees and hears every single cry。
of the whole world, who puts the planets into orbit,。
who knows exactly the seasons and what's gonna happen,。
who's in charge of the entire universe,。
would hear the prayers of a lowly, childless couple.。
I was thinking about this on the bus ride。
on the way here this morning, right,。
'cause as I was thinking back through a message,。
who am I that the Lord thinks about me?。
That amongst every single person in this world,。
he knows me, that he's listening to me right now,。
as I was praying to him this morning.。
He knows.。
And what about you?。
Maybe you have seen the results of long。
and faithful prayer come to pass.。
I was with a brother this morning who just told me。
that I've been praying with him for the past year。
about something that he's been wrestling with in his life,。
and God finally came through for him.。
And one of the biggest answers to prayer I've seen。
in my life happened to a good friend of mine.。
And this friend of mine and I,。
we met in Hong Kong as young teens.。
He arrived in Hong Kong as a victim of human trafficking.。
Once he was brought to Hong Kong,。
the person that brought him was asking him。
to do illegal activities, and he said,。
"I'm not gonna do that."。
And so he took everything he had,。
all the money, all his passports, everything,。
and just abandoned him at the Star Ferry Pier。
in Tsim Sha Tsui.。
And at the church I was with at the time,。
one of our members found him and brought him to church,。
and that's where we met,。
that's where we became good friends.。
But as an asylum seeker in Hong Kong,。
as many of us know, you are very vulnerable.。
And so one day he found himself being locked up。
in a detention center.。
He was just a, he's still a young man at this point,。
in his mid-teens.。
And whilst he was there, he decided that one day,。
when I'm gonna be released, I want to go back to school.。
And so every day he began praying and writing letters。
to the director of immigration,。
asking to be released so that he could have a chance。
to resume a bit of normal life, go back to school,。
and keep learning again.。
And so for 10 months he was detained,。
and he dreamed every day of those 10 months,。
writing letters, praying, we were praying for him,。
I would go and visit, we would pray together,。
writing letters, but never got a response.。
And so one day he was summoned。
by the director of immigration.。
Now, normally that's not a good sign.。
Normally that means if you get summoned by the director,。
they reviewed your case, case closed,。
we're gonna send you back to where you came from.。
But he walks into the director's office,。
and he sees the stack of letters that he's written.。
And the director told him,。
so apparently you want to go to school, right?。
And he said, yes, I really do.。
And so he said, okay, we've made a decision.。
Once you get released, you can stay in Hong Kong,。
and you can go back to school, right?。
And so amazing, right?。
We celebrated so much, right?。
These long answer prayers, I remember when he came out,。
he had to start at the beginning,。
so he started in K3 or P1,。
so it was like, went to his, I'm not joking,。
a kindergarten graduation, right?。
Like, these little kids, right?。
And then my friends, okay?。
And then like, these little kids again.。
Okay, but then he went on, finished primary school,。
finished high school, went on to get a university degree,。
went on to get a postgraduate degree, right?。
Marry his wife, and now, thankfully,。
he's no longer in Hong Kong.。
He's gone abroad and made a new life for himself.。
Right, praise the Lord, amen.。
You can clap for that.。
[audience applauding]。
No situation in life is too small or insignificant。
for God to notice when we pray to Him.。
Like I said, Elizabeth and Zachariah,。
just a normal couple praying faithfully for a child.。
My friend, a young lost boy,。
praying of an opportunity for school.。
And whatever your prayer request is。
that you bring before the Lord as well.。
In the grand scheme of things,。
or in the eyes of the world,。
maybe these poor people weren't very important,。
but God sees it all, and God hears it all.。
And He walks with us through those times of prayer.。
But there's something even more amazing happening here.。
You see, often when we get stuck in doubt, right,。
our perspective narrows, and we only get stuck,。
and we keep thinking about the thing we're wrestling with,。
the thing that's right in front of us, and it's real.。
And yes, it's something that we're walking through,。
and it's a very personal experience.。
But when our perspective tends to shrink,。
we get caught up in despair, and we forget, actually,。
God's ability, and His love, and His power。
goes beyond just answering the one prayer。
that we're praying.。
But He hears everybody, and He's still able to act.。
His love and His power is infinite.。
So as this angel begins to tell Zachariah。
about his son, about John,。
and the type of man he's going to be,。
something else becomes very clear.。
John is not just gonna be an ordinary child.。
The angel starts saying things like,。
this man, this boy, he will be filled with the Holy Spirit。
even before he is born.。
We see this happening when Elizabeth goes to visit Mary.。
Remember the story of John is kicking, right,。
in Elizabeth's womb, because he knows。
the Holy Spirit has taught this infant。
in the womb of his mother that he is meeting。
the Messiah right now.。
It tells us that many will rejoice at his birth.。
It tells us that he will bring back many。
of the people of Israel to the Lord their God.。
He will make ready a people prepared for the Lord.。
You see, John was not just a child。
that Zachariah and Elizabeth had been praying for。
and waiting for.。
He's actually gonna be the fulfillment。
of these prophecies from long ago.。
He's the one that Isaiah says in his prophecy,。
the voice of one calling in the wilderness,。
prepare the way of the Lord, make straight a way。
in the desert for our God.。
So do you see what's happening, church?。
In answering the prayer of Zachariah and Elizabeth,。
in their longing for a child, God was actually using。
this opportunity for the bigger prayer。
and the bigger cry of the whole nation.。
Not just the whole nation, the whole world,。
the redemption and the rescue of all people.。
Right, this is what we mean when God is able。
to do more than we can ask or imagine.。
This is so much more than just the promises。
of Zachariah and Elizabeth having a son at last.。
It's the fulfillment of the reality of God's promises。
for all people of all time.。
This is God proving his love and telling us。
that the needs and the fears and the hopes。
of the people will certainly not go unanswered.。
That the prayers of the past 400 years。
have not fallen on deaf ears.。
The cry for a Messiah has been heard。
and I'm finally taking action.。
Redemption is about to unfold before your very eyes.。
This is me at work, paving the way for my son。
to come into this world.。
Which is why then Zachariah's response。
seems quite anti-climatic, right?。
You would think that he would be celebrating。
the moment he heard this, right?。
An angel has appeared.。
He's told him the news, right?。
He would have known these stories。
of angels appearing in the past.。
He would have known the history,。
the cry of the many people.。
You think he'd run out praising everybody,。
telling everybody, look what God has done。
and angels just came to me.。
You know, I'm mad to be a father。
and this boy is gonna prepare the way for the Messiah.。
But instead, it seems as though。
that his past disappointment has been too strong, right?。
And his doubts have clouded his ability。
to really trust in God,。
even if such a great sign has come to tell him.。
He questions, he asks the angel,。
how can I be sure of this?。
I am an old man and my wife is well along in years.。
And you know, when we read stories like that,。
it's easy for us to like judge a bit, Zachariah, at first.。
Like, come on, dude, like an angel,。
God's word, you're still doubting?。
And I feel for him, right?。
He's looking for a further sign, he needs more assurance.。
I'm not saying the way he responded was correct,。
but I can understand why he would be feeling this way.。
'Cause even as I look back on my own life,。
and maybe this is true for you as well,。
it does seem as though there have been many more times。
when prayers have gone unanswered。
than God giving me things that I've been praying for.。
I've lost three of my good best friends to cancer,。
even though every time I pray to God for healing,。
I have prayed unceasingly for my own wrestle。
with my own genetic condition, right?。
It's something I continue to wrestle with every day,。
this literal thorn in the flesh。
that I feel God's given to me.。
And every time I pray, God's response is,。
my grace is sufficient.。
I prayed in great faith that my children。
would not inherit this disease,。
and yet here we are, a steady constant stream。
of hospital visits, of MRI scans to manage their condition.。
And so as I said in the beginning,。
I and most of us in this room。
have gone through many seasons of life。
where we doubt God's goodness,。
where when we sing words like you have never let me down,。
like I really have to wrestle with myself,。
do I really mean those words, God?。
'Cause I feel like down sometimes, right?。
Hear me when I say this, church.。
There is room and permission for doubt。
in the journey of your relationship with Jesus.。
Just don't let that doubt control your life。
and lead you into a place of despair,。
but instead, allow that doubt to lead you deeper。
into faith in the Lord.。
And see, when we do this, faith and doubt。
can actually work hand in hand.。
Maybe thinking about this this way might help.。
Doubt is to faith as grief is to love, right?。
We love love.。
Love is a strong, powerful force.。
Love can overcome all things.。
Love is the fuel of our relationships.。
Think about all the things and people that you love,。
right, your spouse, your family, your friends,。
your brothers and sisters in Christ,。
ramen, your pets, right, whatever it is, right?。
Love is this thing that fuels us。
and makes life worth living.。
Without love, life would be almost meaningless.。
It would be no life at all.。
But alongside love is a shadow,。
the shadow of grief.。
Grief is this inevitable part of love, right?。
The two can coexist in this weird dance。
that they do with each other。
because to love someone is also to risk。
grieving them as well.。
And the same thing can be said about faith and doubt.。
Right, without doubt, faith would be like。
a mathematical equation, right,。
or like a computer program.。
Do this and that's gonna happen.。
But faith isn't like that, right?。
Faith is this thing that apparently we can grow in。
and get stronger in.。
It's an active and living thing, right?。
Which is why in order to have faith,。
we also have to have the ability to doubt.。
If we never had to doubt anything,。
then what would be the need for faith?。
So we must wrestle without doubt.。
But like I said, we must be careful。
not to let doubts prevail。
and sit upon the throne of our hearts.。
'Cause when doubt sits on the throne of our heart,。
it becomes an idol.。
And we start to believe things like,。
I know better than God.。
I don't need God anymore.。
When throne sits on our hearts,。
we start believing in his power.。
Even Jesus said this himself,。
that in his own town, he could not do many miracles。
because they doubted, because of the lack of faith.。
So I'm gonna give us three things that we can do。
to guide us in our doubts.。
These three things will hopefully help you。
as you go in these seasons of doubt。
and wrestling with unanswered prayer。
and the unsureness that we feel in our lives sometimes.。
Hopefully you can use these things。
and the things we talked about just now to guide us through.。
Number one is this.。
Turn your doubt into a prayer.。
Turn your doubt into a prayer.。
See, when we look at the life of Jesus,。
this is exactly how he handles his doubt.。
Yes, church, even Jesus,。
who is described as the author and perfecter of our faith,。
whilst he was on this earth, had his moments of doubt.。
When Jesus was in the wilderness,。
fasting and praying for 40 days and 40 nights,。
and then the enemy comes,。
he tries to use the same tactics that he did with Eve.。
He tries to use doubt to get Jesus to trust him。
rather than his father's plans for him.。
But Jesus passes that test,。
and he comes through standing strong in his faith,。
standing strong in the word of God.。
And Jesus had to fight back against him, though, right?。
And again, in the garden of Gethsemane,。
when he was about to go to the cross,。
he prays, he cries out to God,。
"My father, if there's any other possible way,。
"may this cup be taken from me,。
"but not my will, your will."。
Right, he wrestled with that.。
He said, "If there's any other way,。
"I would much rather do that, Lord,。
"but still I'm gonna submit to you."。
And even as he's on the cross, Jesus cries out,。
"My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?"。
It's painful, but yet somehow beautiful and vulnerable。
what Jesus does here.。
Each time, he fully acknowledges his pain and his doubts,。
the things that he's wrestling with,。
and yet he still chooses to cry out to God in prayer.。
He still chooses trust.。
He still chooses obedience.。
He still stands firm on God's word till the very end.。
He turns his doubt into a cry of prayer to God.。
That's what I encourage us today.。
Turn your doubt into a prayer.。
Whatever it is that you're struggling with,。
bring it to the Lord, like we see in the Psalms.。
How, when, why, how long?。
But bring them before God and ask him,。
ask him to handle it.。
As we do this, we're acknowledging。
that his ways are not our ways,。
and we trust that even as we hold on,。
we will see his goodness.。
We trust that even as we wrestle with our doubts,。
he proves that time and time again, he is faithful.。
He is able to bring us through,。
and maybe it's not in a way that we expected,。
but he is there for us.。
So we turn our doubt into a prayer.。
Number two is this, sit in silence.。
When Zechariah makes his doubts known to God,。
for a moment, God turns him mute.。
Now, on the surface, it seems like it's a punishment,。
but actually, it's not a punishment, I don't think.。
Or if it is a punishment,。
it's like a punishment from grace,。
'cause this is God trying to get Zechariah。
to surrender himself,。
just to sit in the silence for a minute.。
And it's only sometimes when we turn off all the noise,。
when we make room and sit in the silence。
and wait for God to speak,。
that somehow in that space, we hear his voice again.。
Somehow in that space,。
our faith is being slowly built back up.。
And through silence, we're reminded。
of how God has been there for us in the past,。
and our promises to us will never, ever fail.。
So we sit in silence and wait for God to speak.。
And number three is this, we remember God's word.。
Zechariah was a man who knew God's word well.。
He would've remembered that,。
actually, this isn't the first time。
that God has promised an elderly couple。
that they would have children.。
He would remember the story of Abraham and Sarah,。
how they were also past the age。
when they should've been able to have children,。
and yet, God promised them。
that they would have as many offspring。
as there are stars in the sky.。
And here they were today, a line of priestly family,。
all the way, tracing the lineage,。
all the way back to Abraham and Sarah,。
living examples of God's promise to Abraham and Sarah。
to where they were today.。
Could God do it again?。
Yes and amen.。
By remembering what God has done in the past。
through His word, it helps us to believe。
that God is able and acts to fulfill。
His promises in the present.。
Even if it might be ways that are surprising to us.。
So remember God's word.。
Hold on to it.。
Look back in scripture and see how good。
God has been to us in the past.。
And remember those promises.。
And my prayer for us this morning is this, church,。
that in the end, I pray,。
even in our doubts, we can continue to praise.。
Even in the end, Zechariah ends his story。
by saying, "Praise be to the Lord, the God of Israel,。
"because He has come to His people and redeemed them."。
So this morning, church,。
I too want to end our time in prayer.。
Maybe you just wanna make yourself comfortable。
and close your eyes right now.。
(pages rustling)。
And we have many people here listening,。
and online as well.。
I know what some of you might be going through,。
but there's a whole lot of wrestling。
in this room right now.。
Lots of shadows of doubt that are looming over us.。
I don't know exactly what that is,。
but what I do know is God is okay with your doubts.。
And He's okay as we bring our prayer before Him.。
For what He doesn't want is for us to stay there.。
(pages rustling)。
And so right now, whatever doubt。
that you are wrestling with, church,。
I encourage you just to bring it before the Lord。
into a prayer.。
Question and ask Him.。
Talk to Him.。
(pages rustling)。
(gentle music)。
And as you bring it before Him, to Him in prayer,。
after you've done that, just sit back。
and be comfortable with the silence。
that may follow that time.。
And as we quieten our hearts and our minds,。
open them up then to hear what God has to say。
about that situation,。
that prayer that you've just brought to Him.。
Allow the Holy Spirit just to come and minister to you.。
And if you need reminders, open up God's Word。
and turn to it.。
Look back in the stories, look back in the situations。
where God has come through for His people.。
And we plant our faith, we build our foundation。
in the Word of God.。
(gentle music)。
And so Jesus, we ask that you would come meet us。
in our doubts, in our wrestling, in our unsureness.。
Lord, and I pray that we do pray in faith。
for prayers to be answered.。
We do pray in faith for the breakthroughs that we are。
that are being lifted up to you right now to become reality.。
(gentle music)。
But more than that, Lord, we hold on to our faith in you,。
our trust in you, our surrender to you.。
To know that you are working and doing things。
on our behalf that we might not even see.。
That you are a good God.。
(gentle music)。
Who loves us.。
And so Jesus, meet us in our doubts.。
Help us to cry out to you and you alone。
and through our doubts, Father, may you draw us closer。
in faith, in love, in relationship to you, Jesus.。
In your name we pray.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
Church, if you're ready, you can stand。
as we respond in worship.。
(gentle music)。
♪ You are here ♪。
♪ Even when the silence falls ♪。
♪ You are here ♪。
