"When he shall come with trumpet sound, and may I then in him be found, dressed in his。
righteousness alone, faultless I stand before his throne."。
The words of that beautiful modern hymn that we just heard our choir sing center us into。
one of the most important themes of the whole Advent series that we've been doing here at。
The Vine in 2024.。
As I've been saying each week, we're centering Advent in this idea, not just in the arrival。
of Christ in his first coming, but also this excitement for him in his second coming.。
In that hymn, we just hear this cry, don't we?。
When the trumpets sound, we know that Christ is going to return.。
When he does, here's how I want to be found.。
The writer here says, "Dressed in his righteousness alone."。
It's a beautiful phrase.。
It's one that we've sung many times here at The Vine.。
I wonder whether you've actually ever absorbed it into your spirit.。
This thought that the author here is expressing confidence in the future arrival of Christ。
and what will happen on that day for them, and their confidence is not found in themselves.。
It's actually a beautiful thing because I think we can overlook this really easily.。
He's not saying on that day, "I'm going to be confident because I've lived a good life."。
He's not saying on that day, "I'm going to have joy and confidence because I've done。
the right things."。
He says, "No, on that day, here's where my confidence is found.。
I'm going to be dressed only in his righteousness.。
There's nothing else that I need, nothing else that I can get or gain to get me into。
heaven to get me in right relationship with him other than what he has done."。
In other words, my confidence is found in the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus.。
The pain, the price for my sin and my brokenness, and because of that, I'm going to stand there。
on that day dressed in that righteousness.。
And because I'll be dressed in that righteousness, I'll have confidence that I'll be welcomed。
into his loving arms.。
What the song is trying to betray to us is, I think, one of the most important things。
that Paul is saying in that passage that we've based this series in where he says, "Look,。
we're living in a now but not yet time and there are gaps, gaps in our knowledge, gaps。
in our understanding, but we're not left alone in those gaps.。
You know, God sent some things to help lift us up in those gaps and then one of those。
things, perhaps the most critical, is exactly this confidence that we have being dressed。
in his righteousness alone.。
It's the theme of hope."。
Oh, yes, hope.。
You know, Paul would say that the three things that remain, right, are faith, hope, and love.。
And he tells us that the greatest of these is love.。
And that's what we're going to look at next week.。
I'm going to unpack that idea of why love is the greatest next week.。
But although it might be true that love is the greatest, I think actually it is hope。
that is currently most needed.。
In fact, I would put it to us like this.。
I think we're living in a world right now that is in a crisis of hope.。
I don't know what your conversations have been lately with people over lunches or coffees。
or in bars or drinks after work, but it's very easy, isn't it, to hear the doom and。
gloom and downcastness, the helplessness, the sense of hopelessness that so many are。
holding in our city.。
I think this is particularly a reality in Hong Kong because we've had a challenging。
last five years, have we not?。
It was really interesting.。
I was in our market last week.。
We had a market, if you weren't here last week, this cool market outside after the services.。
And one of the stalls was run by this great organization called Eden.。
And Eden create jewelry and they raise money to help with anti-human trafficking.。
They have this card that they printed up, and when somebody comes to them in one of。
the markets that they're doing here in Hong Kong, they give the person a card.。
And on that card it has a bunch of words.。
And these are biblical words, but they're just words there.。
And what they say to the person is, "All of our jewelry is based on these words.。
I want you to choose the word that resonates with you the most, the word that connects。
to your spirit the most or the thing that you feel you need the most."。
And here's what they told me last week.。
They said out of all of the young people in Hong Kong that come forward in the store and。
they give that card to, the one word they choose, the one thing that they feel like。
they need the most, can you guess what it is?。
The word hope.。
The word hope.。
And it's not just the young people of our city that are struggling with this.。
I think all of us are in some ways wrestling with, is this still the place we want to be。
in?。
Is Hong Kong going to recover?。
Are there going to be some signs at some point where we'll feel like everything's going to。
go well?。
Are rents going to come back down?。
Is money going to go back up?。
Am I going to get a job?。
Is everything going to get settled again?。
And there's this sort of sense of helplessness or hopelessness in our city.。
And here's the reality.。
It's not just our city.。
It's the whole world at the moment.。
I mean, if we just lift our heads up a little bit and look at BBC or CNN or any of the other。
news outlets and we begin to see what's going on around the world, we can see that that。
sense of helplessness and hopelessness is pervasive in our world right now.。
And here's the thing.。
There's actually a lot of good evidence to suggest that we don't have much hope right。
now.。
I mean, if you just look at some of the economic disparities that we're seeing in the world。
right now, the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer.。
And that gap is widening more now than in any other time in history.。
Have a think about exploitation.。
There's more human trafficking than ever before.。
There's more forced labor migration than ever before.。
The poor and the vulnerable are being exploited like they've never been before.。
Look at the realities of movement, migration, and displacement in the world.。
Asylum seekers and refugees, something dear to our hearts here at the Vine, they're struggling。
around globally more than ever before.。
And when you begin to put all this together, you realize that there is more violence in。
our world, it seems, than ever before.。
There's more wars that are happening.。
And wars, here's the thing, when wars happen, it is always the innocent that seems to suffer。
most, like children.。
And we've seen that over the last couple of years, perhaps more than ever.。
And when we weigh this all up, it's not a surprise, perhaps, that there's a sense of。
helplessness on us, a sense of hopelessness.。
And I want to be honest with you.。
Here's what I hear at the Vine.。
I hear the same kind of helplessness amongst us in conversations I'm having with you, in。
conversations you're having with our pastors.。
We know that that sense of helplessness, that sense of hopelessness, is even pervasive into。
the church, which is really interesting because surely the church should be filled with people。
who are the most hopeful, but the reality are, if you're anything like me, you struggle。
with this too.。
But it isn't always easy, is it, to find hope within us.。
And despite everything that's happening and all the feelings that we're feeling and the。
realities of the evidence that we're seeing, I want to call you over the next 30 minutes。
or so to take a stand against despair.。
Come on, church.。
If there's ever a community of people around this world that in a time of a hope crisis。
should be rising up with an alternative way of seeing the world, an alternative narrative。
of saying that there's actually something better, that there is something to hope for,。
there is something to long for, that it isn't all doom and gloom, that the reality might。
be that there's evidence around us that would suggest a certain path, but there is always。
hope.。
If it should be anyone, shouldn't it be the church at Christmas?。
So why is our voice silent?。
I think our voice is largely silent because if you're anything like me, along the way。
you've been burnt by hope.。
Maybe you come in today and just the very idea that I'm speaking on hope raises some。
complex feelings for you.。
Perhaps you're sitting in here right now and you've had a diagnosis this week, or something's。
happened in your family, or it's been challenging for you and you're facing what you're facing。
in an uncertain future and you're wrestling with that.。
Perhaps there's some of you, you put a lot of hope before in a changed relationship,。
but that relationship didn't seem to change.。
Or you put your hope in perhaps a debt to get paid off, but no matter how hard you've。
worked it hasn't seemed like you've been able to pay off that debt.。
Perhaps you put your hope in resolving a dispute that you've been having with a loved one,。
and no matter how hard you've tried it seems to get worse, not better.。
Perhaps for you, you've tried to lead some people to faith this year and they haven't。
given their lives to Jesus and you're wondering what that's all about.。
All of us perhaps have a story where we've put so much stock and faith into this thing。
called hope and it seems like it's flimsy, it's intangible.。
It doesn't seem like it's actually worked out for us and we've been so burnt by hope。
that even the idea of hope carries with it this pain in us and we're like, "What has。
hope ever done for me?"。
And perhaps because we're wrestling with that, the idea of having hope seems foreign to us。
and you're sitting there and you're saying to yourself, "I don't even think that it's。
worth me getting excited about something that seems so intangible."。
I think the reason why we Christians struggle with this, I want you to follow this, I think。
the reason why we Christians struggle with this is because there is this tension between。
the good idea of hope and our present reality or experience with it.。
And when those two things don't seem to add up a lot, it creates a bit of a tension within。
us.。
But I want to put it to you that the reason why these two things don't add up much for。
us as Christians, the good idea of hope and our present reality with it, is because I。
think as Christians, and I would say this boldly, I think as the global church, we've。
actually defined hope completely wrong.。
Let me tell you a little bit about how society, how the world defines hope and how hope is。
used mostly in an everyday context.。
So it would be something like this.。
Hope is an expressed, desired, positive outcome that is uncertain.。
Let me give you an example.。
My beautiful daughter Mia, who's 14 years old, she hopes that we will get her an iPad。
for Christmas.。
And what she really means by that is this.。
I hope that my mom and dad will dig into their bank account and buy me an iPad, but I have。
absolutely no certainty whether they will do that or not.。
It's just a hoped for, desired outcome that is uncertain.。
Are you following this?。
And my daughter is very smart because it is uncertain.。
Okay, I just want you to know that she's not in the service.。
That is a false hope, okay?。
Have you seen how expensive iPads are?。
That is not happening, all right?。
Don't tell her that if you see her later.。
It's not happening.。
Or maybe you're sitting there and you're like, "I hope Pastor Andrew only preaches for 15。
minutes today."。
What you're really saying is, "I would prefer a short service today because I want to get。
out there into the bake sale as quickly as possible, and I hope that he's short, but。
actually I've been coming to the Vine for a while, and I know that he's not going to。
be short at all."。
So, it's weird.。
This hope that we use and we talk about so often, this is actually how we define it and。
how we use it.。
In other words, hope is based in the reality that something is uncertain, but I hope that。
it will work out.。
I don't know if it will or not.。
The facts don't necessarily suggest it will or not, but I'm just going to kind of like。
throw a dart at a dart board and hope that I might get that 12 or triple 12 or whatever。
it is, hope that things will work out.。
I'm not sure.。
I'm not certain.。
It's a bit of a crack shoot, but we're going to see if this thing plays out okay.。
And when it doesn't, darn it, I hoped again and it failed me.。
Are you with me, church?。
And because we have come to define hope within a Christian context in the same way that the。
world defines hope, it's not a surprise that the church has lost its voice.。
I think we actually ask this question mostly in church and it's this, "Why would I put。
my faith in something as flimsy, as uncertain, as doubtful as a thing like hope?"。
And because of that, here's what I've noticed.。
Christians don't talk about hope.。
And we don't talk about hope because we don't want to set anybody up for failure because。
we've failed this way a lot and we don't want to push that on anyone else.。
So we downplay the reality of hope in church contexts.。
You got to understand that the Bible does not downplay hope.。
In fact, the Bible mentions hope over 600 times.。
It is mentioned in almost every single book in the Bible.。
When you get to the New Testament, the idea of hope is mentioned every two or three pages。
throughout the whole of the Old Testament.。
The Bible has a lot to say about hope, so why are we silent?。
I went to seminary for four years.。
I never did a class on hope.。
Faith got it nailed.。
Did lots of classes on faith.。
Love, oh my gosh, we talked about love all the time.。
We never once mentioned hope.。
In fact, the only time the word hope was mentioned in my seminary over four years was when the。
teacher was trying to call out the person whose first name was hope.。
That was the only time that I ever heard that word in seminary.。
We don't talk about hope because we've come to misunderstand it.。
We're defining it in a wrong way.。
And because we don't want to set anybody up to fail or into some uncertainty, we've kind。
of closed our mouth about it.。
But the Bible has so much to say.。
And the apostle Paul, who we're centering our Advent series in over these weeks, the。
apostle Paul has a lot to say about it.。
I kind of feel like he leans into his church and he says, "Look, guys, we might be talking。
about hope wrong, but if you can begin to understand how hope truly is, if you can begin。
to understand it in the way that it was designed to be, you would be the most hopeful people.。
And not only that, but you would actually begin to live a life of hope."。
He mentions it over 36 times in all of his letters.。
And I want to take you to a place where it's out of a book that perhaps you haven't read。
much, Titus.。
Paul is writing to one of his prodigies, this guy Titus, who's a church planter and a pastor。
in a small island, the island of Crete in the middle of the Mediterranean.。
And Paul writes to him to encourage him in the work he's doing, and he centers a conversation。
on hope.。
I want to read this to you from Titus chapter two.。
Is this helping everyone?。
Are you okay?。
How are you feeling?。
I'm a pastor.。
I can tell when you're lying.。
Don't lie to me.。
All right.。
Here's Paul, Titus chapter two, verse 11.。
He says, "For the grace of God that has appeared has brought salvation to all people.。
It teaches us to say no to ungodliness and worldly passions and to live self-controlled,。
upright and godly lives in this present age while we wait for the blessed hope, the glorious。
appearing or the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ."。
It's really beautiful what Paul does here.。
Just in three little verses, I want to show you how he centers his conversation here around。
the now but not yet tension we've been talking about in the Advent series between the birth。
of Christ and the return of Christ.。
Notice what he first does.。
He splits this passage into three things, past, present and future.。
He does a lot of this in his letters.。
You'll notice he does this in three kind of immediate sentences a lot when he's writing.。
But I love the fact that he's saying there's something in the past, there's something in。
the present and there's something in the future.。
Not only that, but then he centers it in this Advent season that we're looking at.。
He says, "Look, there was this arrival, this appearance of Christ at the start."。
That's the first appearance, the first Advent.。
And then he says in the third verse, "He's coming again.。
There's this glory that will appear in the third time."。
And so he mentions these two bookends, the start and the finish, the birth and the return,。
just like Advent does.。
And he centers Titus in this thinking of God who is past, present and future, a God who。
has arrived, a God who is coming.。
And then in the middle he says this, "There is a blessed hope."。
I love how prickly the Apostle Paul is because he's speaking against that societal perspective。
that we all hold so dearly to us because so often we think hope is cursed.。
"Oh, I had this hope.。
I tried this hope.。
It didn't work out.。
It seemed like hope was cursed."。
Paul's saying, "You need to understand that hope is a bad rep.。
Actually hope is blessed."。
And here's why it's blessed, Paul is saying.。
"It's blessed because I am placing the object of my hope not in something that is uncertain."。
This is so powerful, church.。
He said, "You need to understand that this is a blessed hope because my hope is not based。
in some circumstance that's going to change or that I hope will change.。
Equally, it's not based in some emotion that I'm feeling.。
I'm going to feel more positive about the future or something like that.。
It's not based in my strength and my ability."。
He's saying, "The object of my hope, the reason why it's blessed is because I'm placing it。
in something that is certain, something that you can take to the bank.。
If I place it in my circumstances, situations, there is a problem."。
He writes to the church in Colossae this a little bit differently.。
He says, "Look, I know what it is to be hungry.。
I know what it is to be well fed.。
I know what it is to have a lot of money.。
I know what it is to have none.。
I know what it is to be shipwrecked.。
I know what it is to be safe."。
He goes, "I have experienced all the different things you can experience in life."。
In other words, my circumstances go up and down just like yours do, but I've learned。
to be content in every circumstance.。
That contentness is his blessed hope.。
And he's saying, "This blessed hope is rooted in the beautiful idea that I'm putting my。
trust in the one who is completely unchangeable.。
My daughter Mia has made a mistake because she has placed her hope in Chris and I's bank。
account."。
That is a very bad place to put your hope.。
I'm just letting you know.。
And Paul's not making that mistake.。
He's not, "I'm not placing my hope in some arbitrary thing that is uncertain.。
No, no.。
I'm going to place my hope in the very thing that is certain in this God who loves us,。
this Christ who has come and is coming again.。
That's where I'm placing."。
And it's a blessed hope when you find hope in the thing that is unchangeable.。
When you find things, place your hope in the thing that never will fail you, never give。
up on you.。
It doesn't mean that you won't sometimes be shipwrecked, but it will mean that you will。
be content in whatever circumstance you find.。
Oh, could you imagine the voice of a church that's content when economic disparity is。
there, when the church is content even though there is all this stuff going on.。
And not content because it's just going like, "I don't really care about that stuff out。
there," content in saying, "This is our opportunity to rise up and say there is a hope no matter。
how dangerous, how hard, how painful, how broken the world might seem around us right。
now.。
There is another story."。
Not a cursed hope, but a blessed one.。
You see, this is biblical hope.。
Hope is not in us.。
It's not in some change in circumstance.。
It's not in some positive thinking.。
It's not in some logical certainties.。
Our hope is only ever in an unchanging, all-loving, all-purposeful God who has spoken truth and。
cannot do anything other than speak truth.。
That my friends is where our hope is.。
And when we place our hope in that, we begin to find a blessed hope, not a cursed one,。
not one that lets us down, not one that kind of, yeah, sure, not one that always does everything。
we ever want it to do.。
God is not Santa Claus, but a God that we can take to the bank and say, "This is our。
blessed hope."。
Now notice what he does here too.。
This is really important, church.。
He places the idea of a blessed hope in the idea of the birth of Christ and the return。
of Christ.。
Here's why that's important.。
He says something about the birth of Christ, first of all, in verse 11.。
He says, "For the grace of God has appeared to us."。
This is so important.。
What he's saying is our blessed hope is actually founded on a foundation, a cornerstone, like。
we're just saying, of grace.。
In other words, our roots of our hope is in the story of grace.。
God chose to come to this world, not leave us in our pain, in our brokenness, in our。
sin.。
He decided to step in and change everything.。
He decided to bring his son, Emmanuel, God with us, to grow up and inaugurate the kingdom。
of God.。
And in that, through his life, death, and resurrection, change the story of sin and。
brokenness in our lives and make us into a new creation, one who now holds a different。
narrative.。
And why?。
Because of grace.。
We haven't earned it.。
We don't deserve it.。
It's not because we've done something right.。
It's not because we try to be good people.。
He did it whilst we were still sinners, died for us.。
And because of that, we are all caught up in a story of grace.。
If you ever wanted hope, it's found in the fact that you've been called by grace.。
That's his starting point.。
The grace has appeared to us.。
But he doesn't stop there.。
He then uses a different word.。
He says, "And glory is coming to us."。
Christ is returning, and when he returns, he returns in the glory of him.。
The glory of his salvation is completed as he returns.。
Your story is not just founded in this wonderful grace of this birth and life and death and。
resurrection of Jesus, as good as that is.。
Your hope, your blessed hope, is also found that your future, no matter how dim it might。
appear right now, no matter how hard it might appear, no matter what uncertainties might。
still sit upon you, your future is guaranteed.。
If you love Jesus, if he is part of your life, if he is in your heart, you only have glory。
ahead of you.。
And yes, death will still be a part of all of our stories, but there's a bigger story。
than the story of death.。
It's the story of life.。
And that story is returning, and when it returns, there will be everyone who ever believed in。
him raised up to be embraced in his loving hands.。
Paul is saying, "You want to know where your hope is?。
Yes, it's in grace, but it is also in glory.。
And the one who came to you in grace is coming back to you in glory."。
And so Paul wants to communicate to the church that biblical hope has two directions to it.。
It looks back in gratitude for the grace that has appeared in Christ Jesus in that first。
coming that has brought and kind of moved us, purchased us in the redemption.。
But our hope also looks forward to the return of Christ in his glory, and we look forward。
with expectation for that, where he will complete our redemption.。
So these two things, the purchasing of our redemption through grace and the completion。
of that redemption when he comes back is a part of the human story.。
And because it is, we now have hope.。
Grace has defined me.。
Glory will define me.。
And right in this moment, I am blessed.。
Oh, not everything's going my way.。
Not all my circumstances seem to be how I want them.。
Could I do with some more money to buy an iPad?。
I could.。
Could I not have this diagnosis of this medical condition?。
That would be helpful.。
Is my life as perfect as I'd want it to be?。
No.。
Does that remove for one moment the blessed hope that I have in a God who has come and。
a God who is returning?。
And even though my circumstances may not tell the world right now that I'm filled and perfect。
and great, what my circumstances can do in the brokenness, in the hardship, in the suffering,。
the fact that I still have hope, that becomes a light that is shone in the darkness.。
And my colleagues around me are saying, "You've just been diagnosed with cancer, but you're。
laughing?。
Why could you ever be positive with your life?。
I see your life.。
Your life is terrible.。
You believe in Jesus.。
Your life is terrible.。
Why is that the case?。
I still have hope."。
Yeah, situations may not be as I want them, but guess what?。
My circumstances do not define my hope.。
My hope is not in the uncertainties of life.。
My hope is in the blessed arrival and coming of the Lord Jesus Christ.。
Now it's not only Paul in the New Testament that writes this kind of beautiful picture。
of where hope is based between the coming and the return.。
In fact, I want to take you real quickly just out of Paul into Peter.。
I want to just read this to you from 1 Peter.。
This is Peter writing in 1 Peter verse 3.。
He says this, "Praise be to the God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, for in his。
great mercy he has given us," note this, "new birth into," what?。
All right, we're going to try that again.。
You're suddenly in Sunday school.。
Happy?。
All right, follow along with me.。
In his great mercy he has given us new birth into a?。
One more time.。
He has given us new birth into a?。
Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead.。
Notice this, "into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade, kept in heaven。
for you, who through faith are being shielded by God's power until the coming salvation。
that is ready to be revealed in the last time."。
Peter goes, "He has come, Jesus Christ, and he has gone to the cross, and he's been raised。
from the dead."。
And guess what?。
You now have received a new birth.。
If your relationship is him, you have a new birth in him.。
You are a, he calls it, "living hope."。
There is a blessed living hope inside of you as you now long for the inheritance that has。
been purchased for you in the cross, the return of Christ who makes all things well.。
Can you see how Peter and Paul are saying the same kind of thing?。
In fact, let me put these two side by side so you can see this a little bit clearer.。
Here's the living hope that Peter is talking about.。
In other words, hope is not just based in the past.。
It's not just based in the future.。
Hope is present today.。
This is really important because otherwise we might think that Paul and Peter are just。
saying, "Hey, you've had hope before.。
You're going to have it later.。
Right now you just need to suffer."。
It's not what he's saying.。
He's saying because there's hope in the past, because there's hope in the future, you're。
rooted right now in a living hope, a blessed hope.。
In other words, that hope should shape who you are today.。
I love how Paul writes it.。
If you look at the Titus passage, he goes, "It teaches us," this blessed hope, "to say。
no to ungodliness and worldly passions, to live self-controlled and upright godly lives。
in this present age, in the now but not yet, in the place where we don't have all the answers。
and we don't know how everything's going to work out.。
Right now, when the world is in despair," and it seems like the church is a little bit。
too much in despair too.。
No, right now, blessed hope, based in the past, planned for the future, has an impact。
in who I am today so I can say no.。
I can resist exploitation.。
I can resist empire.。
I can resist the things that are unjust in this world.。
No, I can resist the ungodly passions that rise up in me.。
So I can say yes to the kingdom that is coming and my life can be a picture of what that。
kingdom looks like today.。
That's hope.。
That is a hope that could set a church on fire.。
Now I want you to see that this kind of biblical hope is not like societal hope at all.。
I mean this is not whimsical thinking.。
This is not positive, the power of positive thinking.。
This is not throwing a dart at a dartboard and hoping it gets a good number.。
This is also not naive hope.。
It's really important you see this.。
See biblical hope is not naive.。
It's not trying to pull the wool over our eyes.。
It's not trying to help us to ignore the bad things that we're seeing around us.。
Biblical hope is not this sort of like, "Oh yeah, we're just going to be in a holy huddle。
in a church and kind of ignore all the stuff out there and we're just going to sing our。
love songs until Jesus comes back."。
That's not what we're being called to here.。
See biblical hope is not naive.。
It's not trying to turn a blind eye.。
Biblical hope is actually rooted in the very grittiness of the human condition.。
This is why we have the laments in the Bible, giving us a place to bring our pain, a place。
to bring the circumstances that don't seem right.。
If you're here today and there's something big and heavy on your life, you have an opportunity。
through lament to bring the challenges of life.。
Biblical hope doesn't ignore the pain and the difficulties and the circumstances around。
us.。
It helps us to see something else.。
It lifts us up above it so that we're able to, even in the midst of that story, proclaim。
another one.。
So I want you to see the practical power of what Paul's teaching here.。
Your hope is rooted in the past, in this story of grace.。
That means if you are here today and you are carrying around baggage in your heart, in。
your soul, maybe there was something that has happened in your life in the past and。
you still haven't been able to get over it today.。
Maybe there's a challenge that took place.。
Maybe you went through a nasty divorce.。
Maybe you made some mistakes.。
Maybe you lost a lot of money.。
Maybe you got into some sin and you're embarrassed about it and you regret it.。
Maybe you said some things you didn't mean to say.。
Maybe somebody did something to you that was unfair, unjust, hurt you.。
Maybe there's a trauma you've gone through.。
Here's where the hope lies.。
The hope lies that God understands all of that and invites you into a place of grace.。
That you can be released from all of your sin through the forgiveness of the Lord.。
That you can find healing and restoration for the trauma through the forgiveness and。
the grace of the Lord.。
Where grace comes to us is a beautiful gift.。
We have hope.。
None of you in this room have to allow the past to be the primary paradigm that defines。
your future.。
Because you have grace.。
That's hope.。
But not just grace there.。
You've got grace for your future.。
Despite that diagnosis that's come recently or the fact that you've lost your job this。
year and you haven't been able to find one yet or whatever it might be and you look to。
your future and you think, "Man, I don't know what's ahead.。
I don't know if I'm going to be able to provide for my family.。
I don't know if everything's going to work out.。
My investment portfolio seems to be in a bad spot."。
Whatever it is, you look into the future and you think, "This looks pretty grim."。
And God says, "No, you've got hope for your future."。
Because it's not based in the circumstances of your life.。
It's based in the glory of a God who will return.。
And when He returns, the whole story of life gets its completion.。
Gets set alight by His goodness.。
That every tribe and tongue will gather around and sing His praise.。
That sin is dealt with forever.。
Death is no more.。
That we have the eternal life and the love of the embracing arms of a Father.。
That is your future guaranteed if you believe in Jesus.。
And you have hope for now.。
Hope in the present.。
Because those two things should give you such confidence and assurance today that yes, even。
though circumstances may be still hard, you can hold your head up and say, "This story。
that I am facing right now is not the main story of my life."。
This my friends, is actually all the story of Christmas.。
I don't know if you've ever thought of Christmas this way, but Christmas is this pretty rough。
and raw story.。
If we strip all of the celebration stuff out of it, all the trees and the gifts and all。
of that, and actually just look at Christmas as it's presented to us in Scripture, you'll。
see a situation that's pretty bleak.。
I mean, essentially, Christmas is a story of a teenage crisis pregnancy.。
Of this girl who is impregnated by the Spirit of God, who is pledged to be married but is。
not yet married.。
And in those days, that's just as bad as in these days.。
In fact, probably in those days, even worse.。
And the shame that comes upon her because she's suddenly pregnant and beginning to show。
that she's pregnant.。
And everybody around her is beginning to say, "Oh, her and Joseph.。
I told you.。
I told you they were a bit friendly at that party the other week."。
And they're having to live in the indignity and the shame of the reality of this all happening。
to them, even though it's not their fault.。
Not only that, but her fiancé is a working class man who works hard, but he works hard。
in a small town, in a small country that is absorbed by this powerful empire that does。
not have their best interests at heart.。
And from there, they're then forced in the indignity of her pregnancy to have to move。
from their town down to the fiancé's relative's town.。
This place called Bethlehem.。
And when they get there, here's what they're hoping for.。
Here's what they're thinking.。
When we get there, as heavily pregnant as Mary is, that the families that are related。
to her fiancé are going to open their homes and welcome them in.。
But that does not happen.。
They get there, and the relatives are so embarrassed by this crisis pregnancy of this teenager。
who's not married that they can't welcome that shame into their houses.。
So they keep their doors shut.。
And although we hear the story, "Oh, there was no room in the inn," and we make like。
a lovely hallmark postcard out of it, the reality is the reason why Mary and Joseph。
gave birth to Jesus in a stall in an animal shelter was because none of the family welcomed。
them in.。
And so they give birth, she gives birth to this child literally in a dark, damp cave.。
These were not pretty mangers.。
They were caves under the houses where the animals were, and they were under the house。
to provide them warmth in the wintertime.。
So they were in that place of darkness, of dampness, a child is born.。
This is not the place this mother wanted the child to be born.。
But she has this thought that her child is special, that actually the location of his。
birth does not determine his future.。
And in the Christmas story, we see a theme arise.。
It's an audacious theme, and it's this, that even though things might look bleak right。
now, even though the bad guys are in power, even though it seems that the winners are。
lording it over the losers, even though it doesn't seem like things are going to change,。
nothing is permanent.。
That God is able to step into the brokenness and the darkness and bring his literal son。
into that situation.。
And when his son comes, we have Emmanuel, God with us, who would grow up and inaugurate。
the kingdom, who would actually begin to tell people that the first will be last and the。
last will be first, who begins to teach that the lowly will be lifted up and that the hungry。
will be fed, who begins to paint a picture of a coming kingdom where those who are mighty。
will be cast down from their thrones and the proud will be scattered in their uttermost。
thoughts.。
He begins to speak of a time where the meek will inherit the earth, not those with power。
and guns.。
He begins to speak of the idea that wouldn't it be great to actually see those who are。
mourning right now be comforted.。
This is hope.。
And this is hope because what he's essentially saying is, I want you to have confident assurance。
that this vision of the coming kingdom, you can live on behalf of that vision now.。
This is hope that despite how hard the world might be and despite how strong the narrative。
of destruction and suffering might be, no, we get the opportunity to bear witness today。
in the midst of all of that suffering to the power of God to save people, to bring justice,。
to liberate and to heal the broken.。
That we as the church get to actually say that within the story of death, there is a。
better story, a brighter story, a more hopeful story.。
And it's the story of life that we might join with Martin Luther King Jr. and say, "Hey,。
we're going to take a little stone of hope out of the mountain of despair."。
That is hope, my friends.。
Could you imagine a church who gave voice to that kind of hope?。
Here's what it would do.。
I think if a church really believed in that kind of hope, here's what I think would happen.。
I think we would find ourselves with a divinely inspired urgency to live like Jesus.。
I think we would really hunger and thirst for righteousness.。
I think actually we would move away from our passive comfort towards costly solidarity。
with the poor and the broken and the vulnerable.。
I think here's what that church would do.。
I think a church with that kind of hope would actually begin to say that no matter what。
might come before us, no matter how hard things might get, no matter what persecution might。
come, we can persevere because we're not persevering in our own strength.。
We're persevering in the power of the Holy Spirit that has come upon us.。
You know, those that hope in the Lord, they renew their strength.。
It's like they get wings like eagles and they can soar again.。
They can run and not get tired.。
That's kind of what happens to a church when it has this kind of hope.。
I think a church with this kind of hope, here's how I think they live.。
No matter how difficult it might be because people are saying things about them, are saying。
things about their God, are saying that there's hypocrisy there, who are slandering the church.。
These people within the church rise up and say no matter how hard the narrative against。
us might be, we will not falter.。
We will not fall because our hope is not in ourselves, but it's in this unchanging God。
who has come, is coming, and will come again.。
This kind of church is one that says, "Hey, we may be hard pressed on every side, but。
we are not crushed.。
We might be perplexed at times, but we are not in despair."。
That kind of church says, "We might be knocked down, but we are not destroyed, persecuted,。
but we are not abandoned."。
That is hope.。
I think this kind of church will also do this.。
I think they will re-imagine the world as it is right now to be the world that is coming。
when Christ returns.。
I think they'll realize that they can't make the world perfect right now until Jesus comes。
back, but they are going to live on behalf of that story.。
I think they're the kind of church that begins to go, "Hey, this is the thing that really。
matters that we begin to look at what is being exploited.。
Look at what's coming in division.。
Look at what's coming through hatred.。
Look at what's coming through injustice.。
Look at what's coming through power play that is taking place.。
Look at the growth of empire.。
Look at all of these things and say there's actually another way to live, one in which。
turns everything upside down and gives us a root in the wonder and the glory of the。
one who is not us.。
The one who's forgiven us with grace is returning with glory and has birthed a living hope."。
I think that's Christmas.。
I think that's what the season of Advent invites us into.。
And I think that's how you need to redefine your thinking around hope, away from a positive。
desired outcome that seems uncertain to a blessed hope that has something to say to。
the brokenness of this world.。
So let me give you some homework like I've been doing each week to help you to process。
this in your own time.。
Take a photo of this slide that's coming up.。
Let me read these to you in general.。
Would you describe yourself as a hopeful person or not?。
Why or why not?。
Where currently in your life have you lost hope?。
Why do you think this is the case?。
Biblical hope is rooted in both grace and glory.。
Which of these might be lacking more in your understanding of hope?。
And then finally, biblical hope is not only future focused but a living hope that invites。
us to bear witness to God's kingdom in the here and now.。
So where do you sense the Holy Spirit is inviting you to do this in your life and what might。
that look like?。
One thing I want to say is this, Paul writes in Romans 15 verse 13 something so beautiful.。
He says this, he says, "May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace as you trust。
in Him so that you might overflow with hope through the power of the Holy Spirit."。
If there's ever a prayer for Christmas for the Vine, that's my prayer.。
Can we pray together?。
Let's do that.。
Father, I thank you for every person here.。
I thank you for their stories.。
I thank you for the life that they have lived and the life that they are living.。
I thank you Lord that no matter how difficult things have been and no matter how difficult。
things are right now, that biblical hope is not some whimsical positive thinking.。
It's not throwing a dart at a dartboard.。
We are rooted in a blessed hope.。
One that may not suddenly magically change our circumstances but will change us.。
Change our attitude and our heart and our thinking.。
Bring life and new birth into us so that we can begin to live out the very thing that。
you've called us to live.。
Lord, we are in a hope crisis in our world right now.。
Father, would you bring a voice of hope to your church, Lord?。
Lord, I pray that each person here on their individual level, a family level, would begin。
to become living hope in their families, their workplaces, their schools, the places of their。
influence, Lord.。
I pray that even this week out of their mouths would not share the conversation of despair。
and gloom.。
Not that we ignore it, no, because biblical hope is not naive.。
Not that we try to ignore the realities of what's happening around us, but no, offer。
people a different narrative even within it, even recognizing it.。
Lord, that's hope.。
So, Father, as you, as Paul so beautifully said to his church, I say over this, that。
may the God of hope birth in these people joy and peace right now in the name of Jesus.。
Where they've come in with pain and hurt and suffering, I want to pray for joy and peace,。
the markers of the Christmas story.。
As we trust in you, Lord, Lord, for those in this room where their trust is weak, for。
those watching online where the trust is weak right now, Lord, I pray that like we talked。
about last week, that our faith would rise in us in this season and that you would help。
us to overflow with hope.。
Oh, Lord, I want to pray for an overflow of hope in every family, every story, every sphere。
of influence, Lord.。
I want to pray that these people in this room would annoy the people around them with hope.。
And as Paul says, an overflow of hope through the release of the Holy Spirit.。
So I pray right now for the release of the Holy Spirit.。
Come Lord, and minister to these people in the depths of your spirit, and I pray you。
would rise up a living hope in them, Lord.。
Whatever is happening in your story right now is not the full stop.。
Jesus is the comer in that sentence.。
There is more to be written.。
There is more ahead.。
What you think is an end is not an end, and may hope overflow in you through the power。
of the Holy Spirit.。
Just allow the Holy Spirit to minister to you now.。
Just let his gentle whisper be with you.。
And our choir are going to sing over you, but just allow them to sing over you in this。
moment.。
Just keep your eyes closed, your heads bowed.。
Listen to the words that they sing.。
May this be a ministry to whatever hopelessness may be upon you.。
May this call you to living hope.。
(gentle music)。
