So help us to receive that we make room for your word and so Jesus. Thank you in your name. We pray. Amen。
Welcome everyone and welcome to everyone who's joining us online。
Some weeks ago。
One of my daughters my son and I were returning home and as we came up to our apartment building。
you have to scan your octopus card to get in it's specially linked and。
In previous years if you were a family unit and you're coming in just one of you needed to zap your card and。
You know, you could all enter but lately they've gotten really strict and they've been wanting everyone to。
Touch their card as they come in。
So as we came up to the doorway my son and my daughter were in front of me。
I was behind them. I had my earphones in and I was watching on my phone。
one of the loves of my life rugby。
So I was completely immersed in this game and and。
My two children were in front of me and they both went and zapped their cards and I just followed in behind them。
I did not zap my card and the elderly security guard. He he saw me and he pointed at the machine like。
You need to zap your card。
and I ignored him and。
Kept walking and I kind of pointed to my son and daughter like I'm with them and I must have made a noise something like。
huh, and。
It must have been a little bit loud because my son immediately turned around to me and he said。
That was really rude。
And。
So when Andrew asked me to speak on this message of living a life worthy of the calling of God。
And I'm somebody that's still being held accountable。
in the way I walk and live by my son I。
Was like writing back to Andrew going, you know, I'll do this。
but you need to know that this is very much something that I'm wrestling with and I'm a work in progress and。
He replied back to me. He said yes, that's the honesty that we need。
So today I'll be sharing with you some things that。
Are at work within me and I hope that they will be an encouragement to you as well。
let's read Ephesians 4 verses 1 to 10 as。
A prisoner for the Lord then I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you have received。
Be completely humble and gentle be patient。
Bearing with one another in love make every effort to keep the unity of the spirit through the bond of peace。
There is one body and one spirit just as you were called to one hope。
When you were called one Lord one faith one baptism。
One God and father of all who is overall and through all and in all but to each one of us。
Grace has been given as Christ apportioned it。
This is why it says when he ascended on high he took many captives and gave gifts to his children。
What does he ascended mean except that he also descended to the lower earthly regions?。
He who descended is the very one who ascended。
Higher than all the heavens in order to fill the whole universe。
I'd like to focus first on Ephesians 4 verse 1 as a prisoner for the Lord then I urge you。
To live a life worthy of the calling you have received。
The New King James Version says I therefore the prisoner of the Lord。
beseech you to walk worthy of the calling with which you are called。
What word or words do you focus on when you hear these verses?。
My eyes get drawn to the word worthy。
Walk worthy live worthy and lately I found myself。
Measuring myself and asking myself am I living a life that is worthy enough?。
At times I felt guilty because I feel like I've not been doing enough that there are expectations。
I'm not fulfilling。
I've wrestled with whether my life is turning out the way。
God intended it to I wonder if there's anyone here this morning. That's asked a similar question。
It's my life。
turning out the way。
God intended it to。
Recently on one of my bus commutes to school and as you know if you've heard me preach before。
There's always something from my bus commutes to school. I felt God shift my focus in。
The verse away from the word worthy to the words walk and live。
God reminded me in a profound way that our worthiness has nothing to do with us。
We cannot do anything to walk more worthy or live more worthy。
We have been made worthy through an act of grace an。
undeserved lavish gift of love。
I'll say it again our worthiness has nothing to do with us。
It has everything to do with a precious gift of a son。
whose perfection and。
goodness。
Covers us as we walk out our sanctification journey。
Paul spends the first half of his letter。
Going into extravagant detail of the wondrous things God has done for us。
He chose us in love. He adopted us。
All of this freely given by God's extravagant grace。
Our eyes might be drawn to this word worthy and for some of us it may have made you feel disqualified。
But this is not what this verse is about。
It is not what Paul was trying to convey。
Commentators believe that Paul was under house arrest in Rome when he wrote this letter。
He was unable to walk and live freely and here。
He was telling and calling God's people to use their freedom to walk and live。
worthy of the calling they had received。
To walk and live in the calling of God has nothing to do with our worthiness. The calling is worthy。
Our primary calling is to be in a personal relationship with God。
to be a son or a daughter of God if we have received and。
Responded to this calling we have been made worthy。
So Paul's focus was not to call the people to worthiness this had already been achieved by them receiving and。
Responding to God's call to be in relationship with him。
Paul was urging them。
Beseeching them this word means to ask someone urgently or fervently to do something。
Paul was urging them to do something with this precious calling they had received。
To understand that this calling to become a son and daughter was not only for them。
It was for the church and the world around them。
He was imploring them to walk in it live it out do something with it。
Under house arrest Paul was well aware that his ability to walk and live out his calling had been somewhat limited。
His imprisonment had opened his eyes to how necessary。
It was that God's people did not waste their freedom。
Their opportunity to do something with this incredible gift。
This incredible calling they had received。
So in summation of this first verse the calling is worthy. It's the calling is worthy of our attention。
You do not have to be worthy。
In fact, you cannot ever be in your own strength or by your own endeavors。
Worthiness is a gift we receive when we choose。
Jesus。
Who traded his perfection?。
His worthiness for our ugliness our flaws our shame on the cross。
The calling is worthy our calling to be in relationship with God to listen and respond to his voice。
It requires our fervent and urgent。
attention。
We are required to do something in response to this precious gift。
Our calling begins in relationship with Christ and as the Holy Spirit works within us。
Drawing us closer to God. We inevitably get drawn closer to the focus of God's hearts, which is people。
We get drawn closer to each other。
We share God's heart for the people in our everyday lives in society and around the world。
So we are not called to do anything in our own strength。
Paul prays that the eyes of our heart。
May be enlightened in order that we may know his。
God's in care incomparably great power for us who believe the same power。
The mighty strength God used to raise Jesus from the dead。
lives within us。
Paul was wanting the believers of Ephesus to understand this power。
this power of the Holy Spirit at work within them and。
It is as we allow and respond to the work of the Spirit that God works。
inevitably。
Through our lives and his good works。
flow out of our lives。
From chapter 4 Paul begins to encourage the people in the church about the way in which they should walk and live in community。
He doesn't start by telling the believers in the church go out and do this。
Go out and do that. He actually starts by talking to them about their attitudes。
be completely humble and。
gentle。
Be patient。
bearing with one another in love。
Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace。
Let's stop for a minute and take a reality check。
How strong are these qualities in our lives?。
Paul is writing to a church calling them to try hard to achieve unity and peace。
Reminding them that it can only be done if their lives are filled with humility。
gentleness。
patience and love。
Examine your attitudes of late。
Where do humility gentleness patience and love rank in your life? I。
Shared with you at the beginning。
one of my stories。
Think back on your weeks leading up to this day。
Where do humility gentleness patience and love。
rank in your life, what if your wife or husband or。
co-workers or children or。
Teachers or other people in the church or the people you ride public transport with。
What about your domestic workers。
What if they were to speak about your attitude?。
What would they say?。
To walk worthy of this incredible calling we've received to represent Christ as his sons and daughters。
We need humility。
Gentleness。
patience and love。
Now before any of us start thinking and striving or how do I do this? How do I get more?。
I've got to work harder。
I've got to have to get up earlier in the morning and do an extra hour of devotions。
Before any of us start striving and thinking that way。
Let us be reminded to start with the source。
These qualities come from the heart of God。
Our primary calling is to be。
To be in relationship with God。
The Holy Spirit is great power within us。
Works to transform our hearts so that we will look like Jesus。
This is why Paul's prayer comes at the very beginning of his life。
Beginning of his letter. He's reminding us that all these qualities come from the heart of God and through。
relationship with him。
When we the people who make up the church。
allow God's humility and God's gentleness and God's patience and。
God's love to flow through us this place will shine。
Shine with unity created by a people who are at peace。
Paul is wanting us to understand the urgency of this the necessity of this。
Because we the church are not the only ones in need of unity and peace。
Instead of humility gentleness patience love that results in unity and peace the world is suffering。
There is so much pride。
There is so much grasping for power and status and wealth a。
desperate need to control a。
Hardness of heart and a love that has become selfish and self-seeking。
Paul was urging the early church to endeavor to create the opposite spirit。
our challenge today is to be honest and。
Ask ourselves are we?。
the people of the vine walking in。
humility and gentleness and patience and love。
Is there an opposite spirit in here to what exists out there?。
The word endeavor speaks of trying it speaks of effort and sometimes this is exactly。
What we do in our own strength we try we try we try。
Harder to love you know that person in our community group who seems to take up all the oxygen and all the attention。
We try harder to love that co-worker who rubs us up the wrong way。
We try we try we try because we know that we're meant to bear with one another in love。
We know we're not meant to get angry and frustrated. We feel the pressure. We should be able to do this. We're Christians。
Today if you're frustrated and worn out trying to be all things to all people take the pressure off。
Only God has love that has no limits。
Only God has love that has no limits。
But as you lean into him。
He gently draws you towards the other。
in love I。
Recently was listening to a podcast and the pastor shared it like this。
he said imagine a wheel of a bicycle and。
God is at the center of this bicycle and we are the spokes。
If I know what a spoke is。
They're those things that those metal。
Want to say wires but。
rods。
That go from the outer part of the wheel into the center of the wheel。
we are the spokes as。
We respond to the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives。
We draw closer to God。
We draw closer to the center of that wheel and as that happens, we are inevitably drawn closer to。
each other。
With God's help we can endeavor to listen to each other in gentleness and patience。
Instead of promoting our own voices。
What areas of your life today lack peace and unity。
What areas of your life lack humility?。
gentleness。
Patience love is it in the area of your family?。
Your friends。
Your community group your work colleagues。
Your future。
Maybe you have no peace when you look at your future。
Maybe today you can choose to once again lean into the center of that bicycle wheel and。
As you are drawn near。
Allow the whispers of the Holy Spirit to show you。
How you can enter back into broken relationships?。
with humility gentleness and love。
He can show you how to find ways to look at your future with renewed peace。
Together we can trust once again that unity and peace can be restored to our lives。
Paul reminds us that there is one body and one spirit。
Just as you were called to one hope when you were called one Lord one faith one baptism。
One God and father of all who's overall and through all and in all。
seven times the word one is used。
When people look at the church。
They should see oneness。
This is the state of being unified even though it is made up of many parts。
The world is fractured and divided full of people promoting their own agendas at the expense of others。
disunity and anxiety reign I。
Recently read an article written by Talia Valley in the fortune magazine and she said。
We are living in an age of selfishness。
Many of us notice an increase in selfish behavior during the early days of the pandemic。
At the time we may have written it off as a flash in the pan that would subside。
but it hasn't。
From rudeness in grocery stores to doors closing in your face rather than being held open by a stranger。
Behavior at a macro level seems to have fundamentally changed。
Living in an apartment block. I see this when you know。
There's people in the elevator and the doors are slowly closing and as people still coming and they're like pushing the button like close。
close。
You're laughing you know what I'm talking about。
She goes on to state that psychologists often define selfishness in its simplest form as。
Its focus on the self over and above and even at the expense of others。
It's a focus on the one。
the one being。
yourself。
God's calling this calling that we've been given to live a life worthy。
His calling calls us to live in a different way。
To be that light on a hill that shows Hong Kong that shows the people in our lives a。
different way of living and walking。
This oneness in our churches and communities is achieved through close。
relationships with God that。
produce his qualities of。
humility and gentleness and patience and love in our lives。
And it's also achieved by remembering that we are all here because of grace。
Through no effort of our own。
Paul writes to each one of us grace has been given。
There's no hierarchy here。
We are all sons and daughters loved beyond measure。
Remembering the grace we walk in the grace we have been given should help us to freely give that same grace。
away。
To live a life worthy of the calling we have received we need each other。
Paul goes on to describe what happens when we all live a life worthy of the calling we have received。
The body of Christ is built up。
We all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God we become mature。
Attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ what a sweet picture of the body of Christ。
When we all choose to allow the Holy Spirit to move us closer to the heart of God。
When we deliberately choose to operate out of attitudes of humility and gentleness and patience and love。
This body this church then reflects the fullness of Christ。
Becoming the urgent answer of peace and unity the world is seeking。
So how do we respond today to this call to walk and live a life worthy of the calling we have received。
Do we respond with more effort and more striving?。
No。
We respond with more。
surrender。
Surrender to the one who wrote the pages of your life before you were born。
Who can supply you with all the power you need in relationship with him?。
He can shape your heart attitudes to match his own。
If you have stalled in your walk because of a sense of unworthiness of not being good enough of。
Not measuring up。
Then it's time to hold on to this truth。
Being able to walk in the calling you have received from God was never about your worthiness。
your ability or your strength。
We walk and live because of his worthiness。
Which he has freely given to us. We are draped in his worthiness。
clothed in his robes of。
righteousness。
Our worthiness for this journey we are on has been sorted。
You are good enough。
You are able。
You are strong enough because he has made you so。
However, we do need to partner with God to walk and live out our calling。
Some people have stalled today in your walk because you're waiting for a better time。
When maybe you're more prepared。
More financially stable waiting for more of maybe your flaws to be sorted out。
If you are waiting for perfection or perfect moments。
You'll be waiting forever。
Instead let the Holy Spirit shape your attitudes respond when he convicts you。
I'll give you another little story talking about responding when he convicts you。
Once again to do with travel on public transport。
It seems to be the area where God。
rubs his sandpaper over me。
so I'm waiting for the e41 which is the bus that takes me most of the way to where I work and。
Where we line up。
Somebody has kindly put these little chairs that you can sit on。
So the protocol is。
You know the first ones there they kind of sit in the chairs and when others arrive they kind of line up behind the chairs。
You know like in the order that they arrive。
but the other morning I was sitting there and。
all the chairs were filled and there was one lady standing at the end of the chairs, we're waiting for the bus a。
Man rushes across the road and he just stands right at the front。
Like。
In my head like this conversation begins of what I will say to him。
About is he more important than all these other people who were before him。
And in my mind, I'm going through this scenario of like, you know, I should say something to this man。
We hop on the bus and he hops on the bus like hops on straight ahead goes ahead of all these people that were there before。
him and I've still got this conversation in my head and I sit down and。
Eventually God goes. Are you just you're just gonna continue doing that like。
having this conversation in your head about what you're gonna say this man and。
God challenged me to look at it with a different spirit。
You know, there's a verse in the Bible that says mercy triumphs over judgment and。
That's what I mean when I say。
Respond when God。
Convicts you。
Respond hear his whispers and go. Yeah, I'm wasting all my time and energy on this. I。
Need to pour mercy and grace into this。
When he convicts you and asks you to take off or remove things from your life respond。
when he prompts you。
Inevitably in the process you will discover that good works will spill out of your life。
Some of you today are struggling with peace and unity because the attitudes you are walking in do not。
reflect the heart of God。
Allow God room to get his hands on your impatience your frustration。
your anger。
Those ugly attitudes that dim your light。
Some of us here today need to be reminded that to walk and live worthy of the calling we have received we need each other。
Have you ever seen a bicycle wheel with one spoke。
That wheels not going far。
We need each other。
None of this works in isolation。
God works to draw us toward himself and to draw us towards each other。
We are a body and we need every part。
Working together bearing with one another in his love。
Some of us here today are worn out by this walk。
You've lost your joy become a bit numb to it all。
I。
Recently was reading a book。
I'm the teacher librarian at my school and I was reading this new book to the children and it was called。
hotel of feelings and。
in one of parts of the book the hotel manager。
Makes a statement where she says when I get overwhelmed by all these emotions that come to stay in the hotel。
I go outside and I sit in nature。
And she said and while I just sit there。
Looking at all the beauty around me。
gratitude comes and sits beside me and。
I was reminded of this when I was reading about this or thinking about this weariness that we get in life。
Sometimes we have to rediscover our gratitude. We have to sit a while。
Maybe it would be in nature。
Maybe it would be to sit in the first three chapters of Ephesians where Paul。
Outlines just the beauty of what we've received the wonder of it。
Oh just sit in it for a while and be reminded and and let gratitude come on sit beside you。
rediscover it。
But also Paul goes on in chapter 5 to say that。
Make sure that you are constantly filled with the Holy Spirit。
the。
Verb tense he uses in the Greek means go on being filled。
You see we might have been filled with the Spirit five years ago or two years ago or maybe even two weeks ago。
But Smith Wigglesworth said we are like leaky boats。
We get filled and then we leak。
This is why Paul I believe was saying。
Go on being filled。
Be filled again our prayer every day being fill me again Holy Spirit。
Continue to fill me as I walk into this day if you're weary be filled afresh。
Today。
We are going to make space today as we did last week to allow the Holy Spirit to move us closer to the heart of。
God and to each other I just invite the musicians to。
Come up. Would you stand with me?。
Would you just close your eyes with me。
If anything I have mentioned。
Has spoken to your heart. I just want you to。
Open your hands in front of you。
And we're just going to give some time for the Holy Spirit to to draw us near to the heart of God。
And maybe there's somebody here today you have never。
Started your journey with God。
You've never known that he loves you。
You've never known that。
He put pen to paper and wrote the pages of your life before you were born。
That there's no one better to lead you in this life than him。
If that's you today, then you can hold your hands open in front of you as well and。
choose Jesus。
Choose him to be the one that you want to walk your life with and he will come。
and he will stand with you and。
He will whisper to you and remind you of how precious you are to him。
For all of us。
I think all of us could open our hands for one thing or another or maybe five things。
As the worship team sing and worship。
And your hands are open in front of you I。
Pray that we can be a body together today that we can help meet each other's needs。
If there's somebody near you with their hands open I just encourage you to to support them。
Support them in prayer。
Maybe support them with a gentle hand on the shoulder to let them know they're not alone in this journey。
None of us are meant to be alone in this journey。
So now we just make some space for the Holy Spirit to draw us closer to the heart of God。
"I am the Spirit of the Lord" - Jesus Christ, the Lord of Hosts, 1 Cor. 2:17-21.。
You。
You。
You。
[MUSIC]。
