Why don't we put hands together for Benedict? It's amazing.。
I especially love the soundtrack analogy.。
So, this week earlier I was editing June's video on Instagram。
and I posted it and something was off.。
And I re-watched again, oh, I forgot to put the soundtrack there.。
So it sounds different. Although her message is still very good,。
but it still sounds a little bit different.。
So I re-uploaded it. So the soundtrack is very important.。
Can we put hands together for him again for that? Yes.。
Let me put this down.。
So, this is the third week of Advent.。
We are 10 days away from Christmas.。
How are you guys doing?。
Too many parties already?。
You're like, "Oh, good. Too many parties, too many wine.。
I'm so tired."。
Too many parties?。
Anybody went to more than like three Christmas parties already?。
Yeah.。
Yeah.。
Well, yeah, staff and small group and our daughter's school's。
Christmas parties were three.。
Anyway, party is great. Party is good.。
Nobody believes the pastor is saying, "Hey, come on."。
Parties are biblical, all right?。
You see parties in the Bible.。
As long as we are doing the, you know, we're celebrating for the。
right thing, we're not getting wasted.。
It's biblical. Come on.。
Do you know that when we get saved, there's a party going on。
in heaven? You know that, right?。
So celebration, it's good.。
It's biblical.。
And in fact, celebration, it's a vital part of life.。
It's so important that what we're doing here every Sunday。
morning or afternoon, it's a celebration in itself, right?。
The songs we sing, the way we, you know, the way you clap, the。
way we do what we do, it's part of a celebration, amen?。
I'm like, okay, half of you, half agree with me.。
Okay.。
All right.。
I still love you.。
Anyway.。
So Christmas is coming.。
I'm sure you've been hearing a lot of music going on.。
We did sing some Christmas songs.。
And in the car, I play Christmas songs.。
And fun fact, my daughter asked me to play a Christmas song a。
couple weeks ago.。
Said I want a Christmas song in the car.。
I was about to reach for, you know, jingle bells or something.。
And she said, I want "Last Christmas."。
[Laughter]。
Yeah.。
So you know the music taste of my daughter now.。
Anyway, yeah, music, it's so beautiful.。
And we sang a lot of Christmas songs, a lot of songs we do,。
they are for Christmas only.。
Worship team, we have a special set list for Christmas.。
And in fact, in the Bible story or in the Bible narrative, when。
you look into it, in the gospel of Luke, those chapters talking。
about the birth of Jesus, there were indeed some songs inside.。
Today we're going to talk about one of them.。
And that song, it's by Mary, Jesus' mother.。
Let me just read that to you in fact here.。
Sorry, this is what the water is for.。
Sorry.。
So we'll start from Luke 1, verse 46.。
There it says, "Mary said, 'My soul glorifies the Lord, and my。
spirit rejoices in God my Savior.。
For he has been mindful of the humble state of his servant," me。
basically, "from now on all generations will call me blessed.。
For the mighty one has done great things for me.。
Holy is his name.。
His mercies extend to those who fear him from generation to。
generation.。
He has performed mighty deeds with his arms.。
He has scattered those who are proud in their inmost thoughts.。
He has brought down rulers from their thrones but has lifted up。
the humble.。
He has filled the hungry with good things but has sent the rich。
away empty.。
He has helped his servant Israel, remembering to be merciful to。
Abraham and his descendants forever, just as he promised our。
ancestors."。
So you probably would have heard of this before.。
Some composer, they even used these words, composed music, put a。
soundtrack to these words, and it becomes songs that we would。
sing throughout different centuries of the church.。
And we've been calling this song or this passage the "Magnificat."。
It comes from the very first word in this passage in the Latin。
Bible.。
So this -- oh, it's on the screen.。
Thank you.。
This "Magnificat," it's a beautiful piece.。
But if you start reading it and if you are a Bible reader, you。
like to read, for example, the Psalms in the Old Testament when。
you can't sleep or maybe you can sleep, you just love reading the。
Bible.。
You start reading it.。
You find a little bit of similarities.。
This Psalm started with, you know, "My soul glorifies the Lord。
and my spirit," and my spirit does what?。
My spirit will also, you know, sing him praises.。
My spirit is also worshiping him, worship God, my Savior.。
And this kind of reminds you of something like Psalm 103, right?。
You know, "Bless the Lord, O my soul," something like that.。
And if we continue to read and we would see this Psalm, actually,。
it follows a certain format.。
This format in the Old Testament Psalm, one of the hymns we call。
it, we call this kind of Psalm a "Thanksgiving Psalm," a。
"Thanksgiving poem."。
And it always starts with a call to worship or a call to praise。
God or in itself just a statement to praise God, like what I just。
said, "Bless the Lord, O my soul."。
It's a statement calling myself to praise God.。
This is what Mary is doing here.。
"My soul, my soul, my soul glorifies the Lord."。
And it's like one of these old Psalms that we normally read.。
And when Mary says, "My soul and my spirit," she is actually saying,。
"My very being, my whole self, I'll be here to praise God,。
to worship him, to love him, to bring glory to him."。
And that's what it is.。
But, you know, this is what we do nowadays as well.。
We have songs like this, "Bless the Lord, O my soul."。
And then, you know, we sing a lot of songs every Sunday.。
We do this every single week.。
We have praise songs.。
We praise God whenever we come into church.。
So praise is part of the routine, the activities that we do here.。
And we can just follow the screen.。
There are lyrics right now, and we just follow, and we sing something.。
Sometimes you feel your heart is resonating or your heart really,。
"Wow, it really makes my heart beat," you know, when I see those。
lyrics, when I'm singing those.。
Sometimes you're like, "Oh, okay.。
That's all right."。
But for Jewish worshipers, whenever they're worshipping,。
yes, this call to worship, this statement of worship, yes,。
it's important.。
But they always have the next part in their psalm.。
And they always have a word, a transition word that sounds like,。
"For I bless the Lord, I love you, Lord.。
For you have done certain things for me."。
They always put a reason.。
They always put a testimony of their own story to that psalm.。
They're always telling you, "I'm here to praise God.。
I'm here to worship him because something he has done for me in my life."。
In other words, praise, there's always a reason for it.。
And a joy in our lives, there's always a source for our joy.。
Let me say that again.。
There's always a reason for our praise, and there's always a source。
for our joy.。
That's what the Old Testament Psalms, and we see how people worship.。
That's what they're trying to do.。
They're saying, "My praise is not empty.。
There's always a reason behind to back it up."。
That's my question for us today.。
I'm wondering when we walk through these doors, when we come and praise God,。
is there a reason behind our worship?。
We can put that slide for those words just now.。
Do we have a reason for our worship?。
When we walk in, do we feel, "Wow, yes, God, I'm praising you today。
because of this or that," or sometimes it feels like we're just going。
through the motions?。
And I know sometimes we all do that.。
We all go through the motions.。
Maybe we're half awake, or maybe, you know, for me, it was Manchester United。
that suffered a huge defeat last night.。
When I come in on Sunday morning, oh, yeah, bless the Lord, oh, my soul.。
Yeah.。
Like, oh, my gosh.。
So sometimes that happens, but I want to reassure you that if sometimes。
you don't feel like saying those words, you don't feel you're totally connected。
with the lyrics, it's not a sin, I just want to tell you, but that also shows us。
that we're missing out on something.。
It's an omission.。
We're missing out on something because when these people, when the people of God。
in the Bible, when they're praising God, they said, "There's always a reason.。
I can always think of something that he has done for me in my life."。
And unless your God stopped working in your life, unless your God no longer。
exists in your life, otherwise, there should always be a reason.。
There should always be something that he's doing in your life that gives you,。
that brings you to praise, brings you to worship him.。
And so here, when we look at the Song of Mary, the Magnificat, we can see that。
this song, she starts with, "My soul glorifies the Lord.。
I bless him.。
I praise him, and for he has done great things for me."。
But she didn't just stop there.。
She didn't just stop with her own personal story, what God has done for me.。
She goes on and on and on to talk about the character of God.。
And throughout this song, you would see God is mighty, he's powerful,。
but he's also merciful.。
He said he will have mercy on those who fear him, like he draws near to us,。
that he will be good to us.。
He knows what we're going through, and he will not abandon us.。
So God is powerful.。
He is merciful.。
But then at the same time, she also shows us that we have a God who is just.。
In him, we find justice.。
And justice in the biblical world, it means God is going to lift up the。
humble, and he's going to humble those who are proud, something we explored。
in a previous sermon series.。
And you can go back and listen to that again, and that's our God.。
That's what he's doing.。
And so when we look at Mary's song, we see that she starts with calling us。
and calling herself to worship, and then she moved on to giving a very。
reason why she's worshiping God right now, why she's praising with her own。
story what God has done for her.。
And she talks about what God has done for all her people, how that shows。
God's character.。
And we see that there's a great reversal that we have seen, what we talked。
about, he will bring down those rulers from their thrones, he will lift up。
the humble, and we see that's what God's going to do.。
For Mary, that's something she experienced very personally, because she。
knows she was a nobody.。
She's from a nobody town called Nazareth, and she's a nobody there.。
If God choose to come into this world as a baby, probably he should have。
choose someone more prominent, someone more like her relative Elizabeth,。
or maybe when she was a bit younger, because Elizabeth is a bit old now,。
but somebody who looks perfect, who has a perfect record, who comes from a。
great family, maybe those people should be the ones who carry this baby Jesus。
or the Messiah.。
But Mary knew, wow, God is going to come here and turn everything upside。
down.。
And it's not just for Mary, it's not just for herself, that's for the entire。
world, because the kingdom of God that this baby inside of her womb, Jesus, he。
came to establish is an upside-down kingdom.。
It's to reverse the world order, it's to turn things upside down, and that's。
what Mary was trying to communicate to us in this song.。
It's beautiful, it's biblical.。
We read about that Jesus talked about this kind of stuff.。
But today I want to draw your attention to one particular line of this song.。
Mary says this, "From now on, all generations will call me blessed."。
I know, we're here sitting in 2024, we look back this story in the Bible from。
2,000 years ago, I'm like, "Yeah, of course, Mary, of course you're blessed.。
Come on, you're the mother of Jesus."。
And in some areas, there are people who would even say prayers to you, and you're。
in a place where everybody celebrates you at least every Christmas we talk about。
you.。
I remember as a young kid when I was in my church, I was a four or five-year-old。
kid, they made us do a Christmas play, and I think I was Joseph, and I learned。
about Joseph and Mary there, and I was like four or five.。
Even young kids know about her.。
Of course you're blessed, what are you talking about?。
Of course that's true if we look at that story from a 2024 perspective.。
But today I want to bring us back to the first century.。
I want to bring us back to the time and space where this story actually happened.。
You know that this story happened about 2,000 years ago in Middle East in an。
area called Judea.。
So Jewish people, they have their own customs, they have their own laws, they。
have their own religious laws.。
When Mary, when the angel one day show up to her and say, "Hey, you know what,。
Mary?。
You're going to get pregnant because God loves you.。
You're going to get pregnant.。
Yes, I know you're not married yet, but don't worry, you're going to get。
pregnant."。
What?。
"Don't worry, you're going to get pregnant, okay?。
Because God loves you, he favors you, you're going to get pregnant."。
If I were Mary, honestly I would freak out.。
I'm like, "What are you talking about?。
Oh, no."。
Because like some parts of the world, maybe in a city among the more Chinese。
culture, it's still true.。
If you're unmarried and you're pregnant, it's actually a big deal.。
In the Jewish culture, any unmarried pregnancy, it's considered a sin.。
And the Jewish law is actually punishable by death.。
Of course, during that time, nobody really does that anymore, but it's still。
a big sin.。
So you get rejected by your husband or your fiance, you get rejected by your。
own family, your own father, and those synagogue leaders, those Pharisees,。
they will brand you as a sinner.。
It sounds familiar, we talked about that a couple of weeks ago.。
You will become a sinner, you will become an outcast of the society from now on.。
Nobody wants to do business with you, nobody wants to talk to you, nobody wants。
to stay near you.。
People, when they see you, "Oh, okay, hi, I'm sorry."。
They will just run away from you.。
Nobody would want to be with you anymore.。
That's what we're talking about here.。
If you said, you know, "Mission Impossible," you say yes to this mission,。
if you say yes to it, you're going to be an outcast for the rest of your life.。
Nobody is going to have, won't have anything to do with you.。
That was what Mary facing during that time.。
And so when this angel showed up, when the angel broke the news to her,。
when she said, "I'm the Lord's servant," there is a prize there.。
There's a huge prize indeed.。
And today I want to continue to read with us a few verses before that song.。
I'm going to read from Luke 1, verse 39.。
It says, so 38, that's the end of the angel, Gabriel, bringing that message to her.。
Verse 39 says this, "At that time, Mary got ready and hurried to a town in the hill country。
of Judea, where she entered Zechariah's home and greeted Elizabeth."。
So Mary, she lives in Nazareth in Galilee, and she's going to this place,。
a hill country of Judea.。
That's about 80 to 110 kilometers, give or take.。
If you start your journey here from Yuen Long and walk for 110 kilometers,。
you probably, one of the possible places you would end up in, it's Guangzhou.。
Of course now, as Hong Kongers, we take the high-speed rail, you'll be there in less than an hour.。
But we're talking about 2,000 years ago.。
We're talking about this rural area, so she would have to walk all the way there,。
and she could only take this journey by herself.。
And we're seeing that she's actually not in a good mood to do a road trip.。
We think, oh yeah, there's a relative, let's go and visit her.。
That's what we do sometimes, right?。
Okay, I'm going back home to see my family, you know?。
See you in a few weeks, bye, that's Christmas, that's what everybody does.。
That's not what Mary is doing.。
She's not doing a road trip to see her friends or relatives or family.。
It's not a pleasant trip for her.。
Maybe, in fact, while she was traveling, she's asking herself a lot of questions.。
She got a lot of things going on in her mind, things like,。
"What am I going to say to my family when they find out eventually?。
What should I tell Joseph?。
Will he even believe me?。
Will he even try to listen to me if I tell him I got a baby,。
and that baby is from the Holy Spirit, you know?。
Will he even listen to me?"。
You see, when Mary was on her way to see Elizabeth,。
she probably might be filled with confusion and questions and different emotions。
all mixed up inside of her.。
That shocking news from the angel would probably have disoriented her life。
or even turned her life upside down.。
As a teenager, she had to face a challenge that she would have never imagined before.。
As I was reading this story, I was actually wondering in my head,。
"Did Mary take this trip before or after the angel Gabriel appeared to Joseph in Matthew 1?"。
If you know the story in Matthew 1, the angel actually appeared to Joseph。
to tell him the same message because before the angel visited Joseph,。
he was actually thinking about divorcing Mary, saying, "Sorry, this is over.。
I don't know what you're talking about.。
I don't understand. You mean you're pregnant?。
We're not married. How can this happen?。
You must be with another man. Sorry, Mary. I like you.。
You're cute. You're great. And you're beautiful.。
But you're pregnant. So I'm sorry. This is the end."。
And the Bible says he wants to do it quietly.。
He wants to say, like, "Goodbye. That's it.。
Let's break up. Last Christmas, I gave you my heart, but that's it.。
All right?"。
So my guess is, my guess, the Bible didn't say this timeline,。
but my guess is that this trip was even before Joseph found out.。
Because number one, there's no ultrasound in those days.。
And number two, for a girl even to find herself pregnant, to confirm her pregnancy,。
I have two kids, so I know.。
It takes at least like a month or a few more weeks when your period stops。
and you start to wonder and you check.。
I don't know how they do it before, like, all these--。
Yeah, anyway, I don't know about technology in first century,。
but it would at least take a few weeks or at least a few months for her to find out.。
But she took this trip immediately to visit Elizabeth.。
So perhaps she hasn't even thought about how to talk to Joseph yet.。
She's just, you know, raising herself, her heart, like, "What am I going to do?。
What am I going to say? What am I going to tell him?"。
So this is where Mary was.。
Maybe she hasn't even thought about how to talk to him.。
Maybe, you know, maybe, maybe, maybe.。
And yeah, of course, if you read the Bible in the Old Testament,。
there is a prophecy in one of the prophets, Isaiah.。
It says there will be a virgin giving birth to a kid.。
If you take--if Mary take this prophecy to Joseph, to his family,。
I have imagined that, you know, as a father myself,。
I do believe in God's power that could be a virgin giving birth to a child,。
but that would not be my daughter.。
As a brother myself, I could totally believe that by God's power。
there could be a virgin giving birth to a child, just not my sister.。
As someone's ex-fiancé, because I'm a husband,。
as an ex-fiancé, I could believe that God could miraculously make a virgin,。
you know, give birth to a baby, but just not my fiancé.。
You get what I mean?。
Yeah, there could be a miracle, but that miracle wouldn't be in my home.。
This is what Mary was facing.。
The rejection, the scandal, the way people look at her,。
the way people are rejecting her, don't want to have anything to do with her.。
That's what Mary was facing.。
Being an unmarried, pregnant teenager in the first century Jewish society。
could be the worst nightmare.。
It brings shame to her.。
It brings shame to her family.。
She'll be rejected by Joseph, by her father, by her synagogue community,。
and for the rest of her life she's going to be branded as a sinner.。
And because in the first century Jewish community, you know what?。
Women, their social status, their economic status。
is totally dependent on her family or her husband.。
And so if she's unmarried, she's pregnant,。
she didn't just mess up her social life or her self-esteem.。
We're talking about her livelihood.。
We're talking about every possible area in her life will be affected.。
So if there's a simple way to describe the situation Mary was in,。
she was simply in a crisis with her unmarried pregnancy.。
And not only that, later because of this child of hers,。
after this child was born, you know, she was rejected by other people as well.。
Because of this pregnancy, when she was in Bethlehem,。
when she was supposed to follow her fiancé to his hometown,。
they were rejected.。
They couldn't even find a place to stay,。
and they had to give birth in an animal shelter.。
And after this child was born, because this child was being hunted down,。
they end up, this family end up as refugees in a country they had never lived in.。
They become refugees.。
And not only that, when this kid finally, you know, grew up,。
she had to watch him being tortured to death, horrible death.。
She had to watch it with her own eyes.。
And if we add all these things up and you tell me,。
"From now on, all generations will call me blessed,"。
I think that doesn't quite add up to the math.。
If you're telling me that's how God is going to bless me or bless you,。
I don't know about you.。
Probably I'll say, "Pass. I don't want to be blessed like that.。
I don't want to be blessed in a way that I'll have to go through pain,。
I'll have to go through suffering, I'll have to see a loved one die,。
I'll have to be rejected many, many times."。
I don't even know if that's blessing.。
How about you?。
What do you see as blessings of God in your life?。
Is it possible in this scenario, if we look at it and we think about our lives,。
would there be any scenario that God is actually blessing us,。
but we simply miss it because we thought,。
"No way, God cannot bless someone like that."。
Would we be passing God's blessings without knowing and said,。
"Sorry, I don't want this, I don't want this,"。
but in fact, it's God's blessing in our life.。
But what changed?。
Like if she's going through so much suffering,。
if she's going through so much trauma or so much stress。
while she was on her way to see Elizabeth,。
what has changed in that house that Mary suddenly said,。
"You know what? From now on, all generations are going to call me blessed."。
So why don't we find out what happened in that house of Zechariah and Elizabeth.。
I'm going to read from verse 41.。
"When Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting, the baby, John the Baptist, inside her womb leaped,。
and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit.。
In a loud voice she exclaimed, 'Blessed are you among women!。
Blessed is the child you will bear!。
But why am I so favored that the mother of my Lord should come to me?。
As soon as the sound of your greeting reached my ears,。
the baby in my womb leaped for joy.。
Blessed is she who has believed that the Lord would fulfill His promises to her."。
It's beautiful here. It says, "Elizabeth, she was filled with the Holy Spirit,。
and being inspired by the Holy Spirit, she recognized who the baby in the womb was."。
It's interesting because the Holy Spirit has always been the one that points us to Jesus.。
The Holy Spirit has always been the one that reveals Jesus to us.。
This is the first person being filled with the Holy Spirit in the New Testament,。
and her first reaction, she recognized Jesus.。
"Oh, that's Jesus. Oh, that's the Messiah.。
That's the mother of the Messiah, the mother of my Lord coming to me."。
She recognized.。
And because she knew who the baby was, so she said those words, "Blessed are you among women."。
In today's terms, you are like not greatest of all time, you're the most blessed of all time.。
So if you can come up with a meme like that, that's Mary,。
and she's the most blessed of all time.。
She's the most blessed woman of all time.。
That's what she meant.。
And what? All right, memes, right?。
Okay, and said, "Oh, yeah, this will be my Lord."。
And so Mary, Mary, we have to look at Mary.。
She has experienced this blessing, but there are actually, according to the words of Elizabeth,。
this blessing, there are two parts.。
So the first part, of course, is that baby is the work of the Holy Spirit.。
The Holy Spirit came and she become pregnant,。
and that's her blessing because of the baby inside of her womb.。
That's why she's blessed.。
But you know that part, she doesn't have to do a thing.。
She just sit there, do nothing, and "I'm pregnant."。
She doesn't have to do anything.。
Completely passive in this part of the blessing.。
But then Elizabeth also talk about an active part in this blessing.。
She said, "Blessed is the one who believed that the Lord will fulfill his promises to her."。
In other words, when the angel came, Mary, she believed.。
She believed the promises of God, no matter how difficult it seems,。
no matter how crazy it sounds, she believed that God is gonna do something.。
And that belief, that trust, that faith becomes a blessing in her life.。
And so those who continue to believe, who continue to trust,。
who continue to hold on to God's promises, just like Mary, they will be blessed.。
But this is very important here.。
When Elizabeth declared these words over her, she was filled with the Holy Spirit.。
I don't know if you've ever been in a room or in a situation where someone was filled with the Holy Spirit。
and they just start praying for you, they're just speaking over your life,。
they start prophesying over you.。
I've had that in a Zoom call before, I've had that face to face before,。
I've had that in many different scenarios before.。
You know, what I learned is that when someone is filled with the Holy Spirit。
and they're speaking life over me or speaking God's words over me,。
the only thing I felt was, "Oh, I have a direct encounter with God."。
I think Mary, when she left Nazareth, she was totally puzzled, she was totally confused.。
But when she arrived in that house, when Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit。
and started prophesying over her, I think she had an encounter with God。
and things started to change.。
The confusion was gone and she was like, "Now I know my soul glorifies the Lord。
and now generations will call me blessed.。
Whatever is going to happen to me, I know I'm blessed."。
A visitation of the Holy Spirit, a word, a ministry from the Holy Spirit。
changed the entire scenario.。
And I'm wondering if, you know, we need that in our lives.。
We need the Holy Spirit to speak to us either directly or through someone,。
speak over us so that something inside of our lives, maybe some strongholds,。
maybe some previous hurts, maybe something stuck inside us could be changed.。
Some of us, some of you here have heard of my story or more correctly, my mother's story.。
She found out she had cancer not long after she gave birth to me, so I was still very young.。
And some of you knew that she passed away eventually because of cancer.。
But what I didn't share with you all was that my mother actually passed on my third birthday.。
I remember as a kid on Tomb Sweeping Festival, all those double nines like Chinese festival。
will go tomb sweeping.。
I remember arriving at my mom's gravestone and looking at a date.。
That date was supposed to be my birthday.。
It's supposed to be a date for celebration, but then that date has ever since been turned。
into a date for mourning.。
In fact, when I was young, my family never celebrated my birthday with me on the actual date.。
Well, my birthday was right after a major holiday, so we always just do it by the way。
and let's just celebrate, have a party during the holiday, but we never do it on my actual birthday.。
Ever since I was young, I thought when I look at that day, I always approach that day with mourning,。
with sadness, with, "Oh, this is a bad day.。
I don't like this date.。
This is so bad," because my mom left the world and she lost her life on this date.。
Fast forward, I remember on my 18th birthday, I was just praying and worshipping at home.。
I was just singing songs to praise God and I was praying, and somehow, I don't know why,。
I thought about this part, my mom and the Holy Spirit just came into my bedroom。
and He started speaking to me.。
He said, "Chapman, you know what?。
15 years ago this date, yes, it was the day that your mom passed away,。
but that was actually the day that she finished running her good race.。
It was the day she finished fighting the good fight.。
It was the day that she has kept her faith and now, she would receive the crown of life。
and the entire heaven was cheering for her.。
That's what happened 15 years ago.。
If there's something you need to react to, if there's a proper reaction, that would be celebration."。
The Spirit just came upon me and I remember for the first time, I started celebrating that.。
Not just my birthday, not just my birth, but I started celebrating the end of my mother's life on my birthday。
because I know what her life actually meant, not just to me or my family,。
but to all those people she helped during her time.。
I know she fought this good fight, so it's a time worth celebrating because that's the day she said,。
it's kind of like Olympics, she got on stage and somebody gave her a medal.。
That's the exact moment.。
If there's something I should do, I should be standing there giving her a round of applause.。
And that day, the Holy Spirit just came and spoke to me and changed my heart.。
And ever since, for the next almost 20 years now, I do celebrate that.。
I do celebrate my birthday, but above all, I celebrate the day my mom,。
which we say graduated from this life or she finished her mission here,。
and she entered into eternity.。
That's beautiful.。
[Applause]。
Thank you.。
As I was preparing the message for today, I felt that's what the Holy Spirit wants to do with us today.。
Perhaps some of us, we are struggling with certain things in our lives.。
Perhaps there are wounds He wants to heal.。
There are strongholds He wants to take down.。
There are things He wants to speak to us directly or maybe through somebody else.。
He wants to speak life into us.。
I do want to give us room and space and time just to be in the presence of God,。
in the presence of the Holy Spirit.。
When Mary left Nazareth, I think she was quite puzzled.。
I think she was quite nervous, but that encounter with God in Zechariah, in Elizabeth's house,。
I think it changed her.。
I think one encounter with God can do a lot in our lives.。
And I believe that's what God wants to do this morning here or this afternoon here with us.。
This is what we're going to do.。
We're just going to--you can sit, you can stand.。
We're just going to worship God for a bit.。
And then later I'll give us some instructions on how we're going to pray.。
So if you want to stand, you can stand.。
If you want to sit, you can sit.。
But we're just going to worship right now.。
[music]。
Holy Spirit, we invite you.。
We welcome you.。
We open our hearts to you today, Lord.。
Whether we're like Mary, perhaps there are things in our lives that you want to come and bless us,。
you want to come and speak to us, you want to come and release a word of life over us.。
Perhaps today here some of us will be like, "Elizabeth, you are going to fill us with your Spirit and you're going to speak through us.。
We're going to be your mouthpiece today."。
Holy Spirit, I just welcome you.。
I just pray that you will come and fill us right now.。
