Well, thank you so much for your prayers.。
Yeah, I really appreciate it.。
And yeah, we're talking about healing, right?。
So, we want to pray for healing and ask for healing.。
And I think it's quite interesting that I'm experiencing my own trials in the middle of talking and preaching about healing.。
But I think that gives me also – reminds me and it gives me a good insider perspective again of that as well, right?。
So, but yeah, thank you for your prayers.。
Well, somebody close to me was rubbing me consistently the wrong way.。
Now, I don't know if you've experienced this.。
Maybe just a little bit, a tiny little bit.。
But over a period of time, it drives you crazy.。
And so, inside of myself, frustration was starting to build up.。
Anyone with me on this? Yes?。
Okay, thank you.。
All right, I see you.。
And so, I got to the point, I was like, I have to say something.。
I cannot just let this continue.。
So, in my mind, I thought objectively, of course objectively, right?。
What I was going to share, so I made a plan.。
And then I stepped into the workspace and said, hey, there's something that we need to talk about.。
I want to talk about this.。
Let me know when it's a good time to talk about this.。
So, I thought I've done my part.。
So, I started walking out of the workspace.。
And he says, hey, you can't do this.。
You cannot bring up a problem and walk away.。
So, obviously, there's a lot of like already intensity in that response.。
And let's say I reacted to that.。
And words were spoken that were meant to injure, to harm.。
There was anger.。
There was hostility.。
And even the threat of cutting off relationship was brought up in this conversation.。
And so, everything ugly inside of me and inside the other person came out.。
I mean, it was just not pretty.。
I'm glad you didn't see it.。
And I don't know if you've ever had this in a fight where you cross a certain line.。
And you know you crossed the line.。
And then in your mind you think, well, now that we're at it, let me tell you everything I always wanted to say.。
Has anyone done that?。
All right.。
Yes.。
Don't do it.。
It's stupid.。
Nothing good comes out of it.。
But that's exactly, of course, what I did.。
I went for it.。
And honestly, in this conflict, I left this conflict shaking, trembling.。
I stepped out of the place.。
I went for a walk.。
And I was processing what had happened.。
And I was feeling hurt.。
I was upset.。
I was disappointed.。
And I've never, up until this point in my life, had ever experienced a rupture in a relationship like I did at that point in time.。
I mean, it was extreme.。
And there was a lot of pain.。
Now, C.S. Lewis, a well-known Christian author, he once said, "Forgiveness is lovely until you have something to forgive."。
Isn't that so true?。
It's easy to talk about forgiveness when there's nothing to forgive, but when someone really hurts you, then suddenly it's not that easy.。
Well, that's what I was experiencing in this moment.。
It was not easy.。
And I have to be honest, even things that I had learned in seminary, things that I had picked up in church about forgiveness, they were not helpful.。
I just could not, for whatever reason, I really struggled to move towards forgiveness.。
So it was not one of those things where 15 minutes later, you're like, "Okay, let's reconcile. I forgive you."。
I'm a harmony person. I don't like conflict.。
So I want to resolve things.。
But in this case, I just was not able to let go of what happened.。
And I really wrestled with it.。
I mean, it was so difficult.。
And I just couldn't move forward.。
So what we're going to do -- oh, I should share what happened, right?。
You're wondering.。
So after several months, this was a long period of time for me.。
I was able to forgive the person who hurt me.。
I also had to own -- so it was not one of those things where I was just hurt.。
I also did some hurting.。
So I actually wrote the person and also asked for their forgiveness as well, trying to do my part.。
And so that's what happened there.。
And today, we are going to continue to talk about our Longing for Healing message series.。
And our topic is forgiveness.。
Now, we have been looking at that healing is found in no other name but the name of Jesus.。
That whether we are looking for physical, emotional, spiritual healing, mental healing, it is found in Jesus.。
He's powerful, and he's able to help us when nobody else is able to help us and to bring healing into our lives.。
Then last week, we looked at how a lot of times we come to Jesus for healing with a lot of shame.。
And so we asked Jesus for one thing, maybe the obvious thing.。
But then Jesus challenges us and calls us to actually go deeper because he wants to bring a deeper healing in our lives.。
We looked at the woman that was bleeding.。
We saw that Jesus called her to step forward.。
And when she did, he restored her relationally.。
He removed her shame.。
And he just powerfully, in his loving presence, brought healing into her life.。
And today, the focus is on unforgiveness.。
A lot of times when you talk about forgiveness, we talk about us needing to forgive.。
And if the Holy Spirit convicts you of that, please, by all means, do that.。
But I want to focus on how we forgive those who have wronged us.。
Oh, that's not easy.。
But I believe that when we do that, that Jesus brings healing and relief to pain and feelings that we have been carrying around.。
And he wants to just set us free from that.。
He wants to get rid of that cloud that is hanging over you.。
So that's what we're going to explore today.。
Does that sound good?。
Yes.。
Yes?。
Okay.。
All right.。
Just checking.。
It didn't sound that convincing, but I think that's what we need to talk about.。
So we're in a famous, one of the most famous part of the gospel.。
So I'm not going to give context.。
We're at the point where Jesus is about to be crucified.。
So I'm going to read Luke 23, starting in verse 33, says this.。
"When they came to the place called Skull, they crucified him there along with the criminals, one on his right and the other on his left.。
Jesus said, 'Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing.'"。
Now, just think about this.。
Jesus is just being nailed to the cross, and the first thing that he says is, "Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing."。
I mean, this is unexpected.。
Jesus had a horrible week.。
He was betrayed by his closest friends.。
He was abandoned by his closest friends.。
He was put on an unjust trial where there was an unjust ruling.。
Then he was mocked.。
He was beaten.。
He had to carry his cross as far as he could.。
Then he was nailed to the cross.。
And so here he is speaking forgiveness to all who had brought him to this place in the first place.。
Now, that is sobering and profound.。
Jesus was modeling something to us that was meant to characterize us as Christians, a radical forgiveness for when we are wronged and when we are hurt.。
What a call this is to us.。
We already acknowledge that forgiveness is easy to talk about when you have nothing to forgive.。
But when we actually struggle with forgiveness, when somebody actually has wronged us and hurt us, this is not easy.。
But Jesus modeled it to us, and he calls us to be a people who forgive.。
So how do we move forward in forgiveness?。
Like I shared, I struggled.。
I, for the life of me, could not forgive for a very long time.。
So how do we move from this place of being hurt, of being wronged, to actually forgiving someone?。
How do we do that?。
What does that look like?。
What does forgiving others look like in the midst of our own suffering?。
So I don't know about you, but in my darkest and most painful conflicts and moments, the first thing off my lips are not, "Father, forgive them."。
I have other things come to mind, other words that shall not be repeated here.。
But here we see Jesus doing that.。
Now it's interesting when you look at the ancient records of crucifixions and what people said that were actually being crucified.。
They were calling for vengeance against those who had brought them to the cross.。
They were threatening the people who were executing them.。
Now that was the response of people being crucified, but not Jesus.。
And what I love about this is that Jesus practiced what he preached, because he talked about forgiveness in his ministry.。
We're not able to look at all these passages where Jesus teaches about forgiveness, but he didn't just talk about it.。
He was practicing it in the darkest, most stark moment of his human life.。
And his light shined brightly in this dark moment where he says, "Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing."。
His love and mercy shines brightly, and it is love, it is mercy, it is grace that overcomes hurt, that overcomes evil.。
This is how Jesus brings victory.。
This is how he defeats Satan on the cross.。
He overcomes death, he overcomes sin, and he brings victory.。
But it's not through his force or use of power, it's through laying down his life and loving us.。
Now what's also important to say is that Jesus did not ignore that he was wronged.。
He didn't pretend that everything was okay.。
He didn't say, "No biggie. Oh, it's not a big deal."。
He said, "Father, forgive them."。
They needed to be forgiven for what they had done.。
He named what they were doing as an offense needing forgiveness.。
A lot of times when we think about forgiving, it's like, "What, Jesus asked me to forgive that person?"。
Like, we feel like we're letting somebody off the hook.。
But that's not the case.。
We're actually saying, "What you have done, you have wronged me, but I'm choosing to forgive you."。
But it needs forgiveness because it's such a big deal.。
If it's not a big deal, we call it forbearance, and we can just let it go.。
So Jesus acknowledged that what was done to him was wrong, but he does forgive.。
So Jesus is modeling from us from the cross how he wants us to treat one another.。
He wants us to be people who forgive those who hurt us.。
He wants us to reflect his character, to be Jesus' people in all of our spheres of life.。
Now, this, of course, what he said on the cross is not the only place where Jesus, where we can learn something about forgiveness.。
There's too much to cover, but I want to look at one teaching from Jesus, which is in the Lord's Prayer,。
and actually also the context around there.。
So we're in Matthew 6, starting verse 9, it says this,。
"Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.。
Give us today our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors.。
And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one.。
For if you forgive other people when they sin against you, your heavenly Father will also forgive you.。
But if you do not forgive others their sins, your Father will not forgive your sins."。
What? We never get to that part, right? But it's there.。
It's because Jesus wants us to be people who have received his love and his forgiveness and mercy,。
and who can extend that to others.。
He wants us to show the same mercy that he has shown us to other people.。
So we see in the Lord's Prayer that unforgiveness is not an option for followers of Jesus.。
If you're a follower of Jesus, living and just remaining in unforgiveness is not an option for us.。
We're called to be people who reflect his mercy and his grace.。
We also see this in the early Jesus movement, in the early church.。
Paul writes in Ephesians, chapter 4, verse 30, he says this,。
"Be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you."。
So again, there's this call to be people who are forgiving,。
but this call is rooted in what Christ has done for us.。
It's rooted in his love, his mercy, his forgiveness towards us.。
So it's clear that we're called as Jesus followers to be people who forgive.。
Now before we continue, I want to give a definition,。
actually it even goes beyond a definition about forgiveness,。
but I want to read this to you just to clarify what we're talking about.。
"Forgiveness is not to ignore a wrong.。
It is to make a decision to give up your right to get even with。
or hold in debt the person who has wronged you.。
When we forgive, we release emotional power another person has over us,。
and we often experience the Holy Spirit healing our emotional pain。
and releasing us to a brand new future."。
But why do we struggle so much to forgive?。
What's the reason for that? Why is that so hard?。
Why did I struggle so much to forgive this person and couldn't just do it?。
Well, let's look at three reasons for that.。
First, we struggle to forgive because emotional pain is so overwhelming.。
When somebody gets under your skin and says hurtful words to you,。
that's all we see, right?。
It's like we lose sight, we just focus on that.。
And that's what we hear and that's what our brain starts processing。
and replaying in our minds, and so we cannot see anything else.。
We just focus on what this person did and how they hurt us.。
And so we cannot see in the middle of that that this person,。
regardless of how they're acting, is created in God's image.。
We cannot see that this is a person that Jesus died for,。
that Jesus loved so much that he laid his life down for them on the cross.。
But we cannot have this perspective. We struggle.。
Mary Kate Morris, someone I know, a professor, she says this,。
"Forgiveness is not easy to accept or extend to others。
because it's more than a rational act. It's an emotional act."。
Because what has happened to us maybe is so grievous and so painful。
that we just can't see beyond that.。
And we might literally not have it in our own strength to see beyond that.。
That's why we need the Holy Spirit to do work in our hearts.。
That's the first reason why we struggle to forgive.。
The second one is we struggle to forgive because we approach forgiveness。
from a modern-day perspective, or we could say from our cultural perspective.。
But what do I mean by that?。
Well, the way our culture approaches forgiveness is usually,。
"You need to say you're sorry, and you need to do this,"。
and we might even add multiple things.。
And only then, when all these things have happened,。
then I might forgive you.。
And even if somebody says they're sorry and they apologize,。
we might say, "Too little, too late."。
So we also have a timing thing in that, right?。
Too little, too late, talk to the hand, you know.。
See you later.。
Well, that's what we could call conditional forgiveness.。
But there's a problem when we approach things in a conditional way.。
And you know what the problem is?。
Because the reality is that people usually don't ask for forgiveness.。
They usually don't say that they're sorry, and they usually don't--。
And so what that means is that if we're waiting and expecting that,。
if that's our condition to move towards forgiveness,。
we're actually stuck in unforgiveness.。
And we're just going to live in that place with all the hurt,。
replaying those tapes, just experiencing all the pain from that.。
And we're not able to move towards forgiveness.。
That's not a good place to be.。
My three months, or however long that stretch was,。
were not good three months.。
I can't tell you how much my mind was replaying this,。
how I started physically breathing differently,。
maybe even shaking a bit from what happened.。
You don't want to live in that place, but that's conditional forgiveness.。
That's what our culture tells us.。
And the truth of the matter is we actually don't even define it clearly.。
So we don't even know what our standards are.。
We just have some standards that are there.。
But in contrast, Jesus, he calls us to unconditional forgiveness.。
So it doesn't matter whether or not the person asks for forgiveness or not.。
We're just asked to forgive.。
We're asked to let go of the debt that this person holds,。
to let go of the right to get even.。
And when we practice this unconditional forgiveness,。
it is much more likely that a hurt that we've struggled with,。
that's been hanging over us,。
even though that's what makes it hard for us to forgive,。
but it's much more likely that we experience the Holy Spirit healing from that pain.。
It's counterintuitive, but it's the work of God.。
Now, I just wonder, what is your approach to forgiveness?。
Is it conditional?。
Are you practicing conditional forgiveness where people need to do the dit, dit, dit, dit, dit,。
and I don't even know what, and you're just living in unforgiveness?。
Or do you practice unconditional forgiveness like Jesus has modeled to us?。
Or is it a mixture? It does depend on who it is.。
I'm happy to forgive the other people, but not this person.。
Yeah? Probably conditional, huh?。
So it's like the mixture in between.。
There's some people where we don't want to apply the love of Jesus to.。
Well, what is the third reason why we struggle with forgiveness?。
Well, it's because we confuse the concept of forgiveness and reconciliation.。
So that is the third reason.。
Actually, this is for me where I see the most confusion in the church.。
This is where I had confusion growing up because there is a lot of confusion around this.。
Forgiveness does not equal a reconciled relationship.。
Or true forgiveness does not mean that we're reconciled.。
That is not true.。
Forgiveness and reconciliation are different things.。
But a lot of times in the church, you're conflated into one thing.。
And so people are pushed, "You need to forgive."。
And what they're really saying is, "You need to reconcile."。
But that's not true.。
Let me explain.。
Reconciliation takes two people.。
Now, if somebody hurts me, I can choose to forgive them.。
I have control over that.。
I can make that decision to let go of this offense and the hurt that's been caused against me.。
But I cannot choose what the other person does.。
I don't have control over the other person, that they acknowledge the hurt that they have caused me,。
that they understand the hurt that they have caused me,。
and that they're going to discontinue the hurtful behavior.。
I don't have control over that.。
And so reconciliation always takes two people doing their part.。
Another way of saying this is forgiveness is a command, but reconciliation is a ministry.。
Jesus commands us to be people who forgive.。
We can do that.。
But he doesn't command us to reconcile because we don't have control over that.。
Because that's a ministry where we--a lot of times because we forgive, people can--。
because we're showing grace and mercy, maybe that's why they're able to--。
God's love is flowing in that, and they're able to have the courage to come forward and say,。
"I am sorry. I have messed up. I'm wrong."。
And show that whatever hurtful behavior we've done can end.。
But that's a ministry. That's different.。
And I actually want to illustrate that to you from the cross.。
Because Jesus--so if you read on in Luke, later on this afternoon you can read on in chapter 23,。
there's multiple people, multiple characters there.。
There is leaders, and they sneer at Jesus.。
So Jesus says, of course, "Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing."。
So Jesus extends forgiveness to all who are involved in bringing him to this point,。
and of course through his death also to all of us.。
But that does not mean that everybody is reconciled with Jesus,。
just because Jesus offers this forgiveness.。
There is the leaders who sneer at him.。
There's Roman soldiers who mock him and make fun of him.。
There's a thief who belittles him.。
But then there's also the other thief who actually acknowledges that what he has done is wrong.。
And Jesus tells them these incredible words.。
He says, "Truly I tell you today, you will be with me in paradise."。
So that person is reconciled with Jesus.。
That person receives Jesus' forgiveness.。
But it takes the two people.。
Jesus extends the forgiveness, but he doesn't force the reconciliation on all the people there.。
That's something where they have to respond, and there's things that the other people are responsible for.。
So that's a very important distinction that we so often have gotten wrong,。
where we push people into relationships and circumstances where they expose themselves to continued hurt.。
Because we say you need to forgive, and really what we're thinking is you need to reconcile.。
But that's not how it should be.。
It actually takes the other person, especially--I mean it depends on what happens,。
but especially if somebody is doing harmful, hurtful behavior.。
No, they need to show that they understand the harm that they cause.。
You need to ask forgiveness.。
They need to change the way they're living.。
And only then is reconciliation possible.。
So like I said, even pastors get this wrong.。
So this is a big thing, just having clarity and reconciliation and forgiveness and what it is.。
But because we don't have the clarity, I think we really also struggle there with forgiveness,。
because we think it means to reconcile when the other person actually doesn't show any sign of caring about what they've done to us and just continues.。
Yes, we're meant to forgive, but we cannot do reconciliation without them also doing their part.。
So super important.。
Now that we've covered all these reasons why we struggle to practice forgiveness,。
I want to talk about the good news of forgiveness.。
The first thing is the good news is that Jesus has forgiven us.。
"Father, forgive them for they do not know what they're doing."。
Yes, that was directed to the people historically there, but through what Jesus did on the cross,。
he's also saying that to every single one of us.。
"I forgive you for all that you have done.。
I forgive you."。
And when we receive that, when we repent of our sins, we say, "Lord, I'm sorry," and we come to Jesus,。
we experience this reconciled relationship, and we're made whole.。
We're part of God's family, and we experience this grace and mercy just poured over our lives.。
And it is so humbling and so moving and so touching when we experience this God's goodness and love,。
because his mercy is so astronomically huge towards us.。
And that's the foundation, really, even for us to practice forgiveness, is because we've been forgiven,。
because we experience this astronomical love and mercy of Jesus,。
and have received the gift of the Holy Spirit.。
We can now turn around and be people who reflect Christ's character and relationships,。
and we can be people who can work towards forgiveness.。
Yes, sometimes it takes work, and the Bible is very realistic about this.。
Otherwise, it wouldn't need to encourage us so much to be people who forgive.。
But we can do it because God first loved us, we can love other people.。
Because God first showed mercy to us, we can be merciful to other people.。
We didn't deserve mercy and grace, and he wants us to do the same with other people.。
So that's good news. It's God's power working in you.。
You don't have to somehow conjure this up on your own.。
So we come to Jesus to help us with that.。
And secondly, when we forgive, God brings forgiveness and grace and healing to others.。
Like a lot of times that opens the pathway. We see it on the cross.。
Jesus speaks forgiveness.。
And because of that, the one thief who knew he was not a good person,。
God's grace and mercy flows towards him.。
And he responds to that, and he can receive it.。
And he can experience forgiveness and reconciliation with God.。
The same is true for us. When we forgive, it makes it possible for God's grace, mercy,。
to flow towards other people.。
And to lead them into repentance and into God's love and God's goodness.。
So that is also good news.。
And then finally, when we forgive, God begins to heal our hurt.。
So we're talking about longing for healing, right?。
And some of us have been carrying unforgiveness in our hearts.。
We've been holding on to these very painful and difficult things that have happened to us.。
And it's like a cloud that's following you around.。
And Jesus is inviting you to let it go.。
To forgive and to experience healing from this emotional bondage or influence。
that other people have had over you.。
To just let it go.。
I don't know how to pronounce this person's name. I'm going to try.。
Celestron. I think it's French. So somebody can...。
Mosekura, president and founder of African Leadership and Reconciliation Ministries, he says this.。
A troubled heart makes unforgiving people double victims.。
Victims of both their offenders and of their own hatred.。
It's like, don't do it.。
Let's not be double victims. Let's not live in that space.。
I know it's not easy.。
I know this is very difficult.。
And people do horrible things. They do.。
But Jesus is wanting us to lead us out of that place。
and bring healing into our lives through forgiveness.。
So if you're struggling with unforgiveness, because it's a struggle.。
I was struggling with it. I had very long conversations with God on a regular basis。
over that three-month period.。
In Luke it says, the Gospel of Luke, 6 verse 28, it talks about that we should pray for those who ill-treat us.。
When we start praying for people that have hurt us.。
A lot of times the Holy Spirit, we give the Holy Spirit space to do something new in our heart.。
To give us a different perspective that we do not have out of our own strength.。
Where he can give us a grace and strength to let go.。
Now when I prayed for the person that had hurt me, and I hurt him as well.。
But when I prayed, the Holy Spirit gave me a different perspective.。
I was not in tunnel vision, locking in on the hurtful things they had said to me.。
I was able to see the bigger picture.。
And part of that was that this person had experienced severe hurt in their lives.。
And that part of them hurting me was acting out of that previous hurt.。
Now it still doesn't excuse our behaviors when we do that.。
But it sure makes it a lot easier to have compassion and to forgive.。
And so that was something that the Holy Spirit revealed to me when I was praying.。
And I was able to move towards forgiveness and to let go of the fence that had been, that was caused against me.。
And when we forgive, Jesus liberates us from a painful past to a brand new future.。
You know, before we're not able to move forward.。
We're stuck. It's like walking in the same spot.。
But when we forgive, it feels so good.。
It really does.。
And so Jesus is inviting us.。
Don't be living in unforgiveness.。
So I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
Jesus has something better for us.。
Now I do want to extend this invitation.。
Like we saw, just because you hear about Jesus' forgiveness, doesn't mean that we're reconciled with Jesus.。
Now if you never have responded to Jesus and you say, you know, I actually, I'm sorry, Jesus.。
I know the way that I'm living is wrong.。
Now I want to, please forgive me.。
I want to be in a relationship with you.。
I want to invite you just to give me a little wave.。
I know that's not easy.。
And I would love to lead you in a prayer of just responding to this.。
And then afterwards I have something else as well.。
But let me, you can follow along in your heartless prayer.。
So what I'll do is I'll pray and I'll pause.。
And then you can repeat in your heart.。
And I'll pray and I'll pause so you can follow along that way.。
Jesus, I'm sorry for all the wrongs that I have committed against you and against others.。
Please forgive me my sins.。
Thank you for dying on the cross for me so that I can be in a relationship with you.。
Lord, now please come and fill me with your Holy Spirit.。
And make me your child.。
Make me part of your family.。
I pray all this in your name, Jesus.。
And everyone says, amen.。
So if you pray this prayer, you're like the thief who was hanging on the cross.。
But we turn to Jesus.。
And your relationship with God is restored.。
You are reconciled.。
You're a child of God.。
Hallelujah.。
Praise the Lord.。
You can now be a person that forgives.。
That can live differently.。
That can love.。
Because God loved you first.。
But I also want to invite others of us here who have been holding on to this unforgiveness.。
And like I said, there is no judgment in that.。
It can be difficult.。
But what I want to encourage you is just as an expression that I want to forgive.。
Maybe I'm struggling.。
Or I am forgiving.。
To stretch out your hands before you.。
And I would just love to pray over you.。
Okay?。
So stretch out your hands before you.。
And I would just love to pray over you right now.。
Jesus, you see every hand stretched out before you.。
You know the hurt and the pain that has been caused.。
And I know that breaks your heart.。
You care.。
You understand.。
And Lord, I know it's been difficult to let go of this offense that has been caused.。
Let go of the hurt and pain that others have brought.。
But Holy Spirit, will you not come?。
Will you pour out your grace?。
Will you pour out your strength?。
So that we have the strength so that everybody stretching out their hands has the strength to walk in forgiveness, Jesus.。
In your forgiveness that you have shown us.。
Will you give the grace and mercy to do so now?。
And Lord, I pray for these clouds that have been hovering around in the hearts.。
We replay these things.。
I pray for release of this emotional power of other people have held over us.。
And that there is freedom.。
I pray for your freedom, Jesus.。
To release your freedom.。
So that people can -- that everyone here who is praying can step forward in the brand new future you have for them.。
And just experience your healing and joy and just move forward and not be stuck in one place.。
So Jesus, we thank you for this work of forgiveness.。
We thank you for the forgiveness that is flowing in this room.。
We thank you that you are greater than all these things.。
That you help us to walk in your love and your forgiveness.。
And so we bring all these things to you.。
We thank you for the new thing that you are doing now.。
I pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
I want to invite everyone to stand.。
Let's sing like people who have been forgiven.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Come on.。
Let's sing like people who have been forgiven.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Thank you.。
[Music]。
