that as we open your scriptures, we would see you.。
And we thank you for this.。
In Jesus' name, everyone says, amen.。
Hey, can we thank our worship team as always?。
(congregation applauding)。
Have a seat, have a seat.。
Welcome to the Vine, if you're relatively new here.。
We're so glad you're with us.。
My name's Andrew, I'm one of the pastors.。
And I honestly, I cannot tell you how excited I am。
for what's about to happen.。
We're about to do something very different here。
at the Vine.。
In a moment, we're gonna take a moment。
to invite every single one of you。
to be personally prayed for this evening.。
In fact, I'm gonna share a message in a moment,。
but really my message is just a warm up。
to the real message, which will be the Holy Spirit。
speaking to each one of you privately and personally.。
But I do wanna share something。
'cause I wanna set up why we're doing this,。
why we're creating space for this tonight.。
If you've been coming to the Vine for a while,。
you'll know that this year is a year。
where we're calling us to action.。
Where we're calling the church, us,。
to really living our faith more publicly in 2025。
than we've ever done so before.。
Because we really sense the need that there is。
in our city for a revival that we were just singing about.。
And if we can understand this,。
as much as we long for revival in these 90 minutes。
on a Sunday, the true revival we should be longing for。
is that the lost would come to Jesus.。
And when we get a heart for the passion。
of sharing the gospel in creative, in new,。
and loving, and gracious, but courageous and bold ways,。
whether with our colleagues or our families。
or with the people that we have in our sphere of influence,。
I think then we begin to see a movement of God.。
And so this desire we have here at the Vine this year。
is to be a church on the move, a church in action,。
a church living its faith far more publicly。
than ever before.。
And as I was praying for us at the beginning of this year,。
I sensed God just say three very specific words.。
He says, "Andrew, the Vine, the people of your church,。
"of this church, are primed for purpose."。
I love that idea.。
I'd never thought of it this way.。
These are words that I felt like the Spirit。
has dropped into my heart.。
He said, "The people are primed for purpose."。
And so I wanna just say over you here this evening,。
you are primed for purpose.。
That in this room, there are people。
from different backgrounds and cultures.。
There are people who are doing different things,。
working in the marketplace, teachers, lawyers, bankers.。
We got stay-at-home parents, we got domestic workers,。
refugees and asylum seekers in our midst.。
We have people that make a lot of money。
and people that don't make any money at all.。
We have people that are incredibly gifted,。
people that have a call and a passion.。
Every single one of you, if Jesus is your Lord and Savior,。
He has primed you for the purposes。
of His kingdom in Hong Kong.。
Oh, I'm gonna say this again.。
If you call Jesus your Lord and Savior,。
you have been primed for the purposes。
of His kingdom in Hong Kong.。
So you are primed for purpose.。
But I wanna just say that what I think。
the Holy Spirit wants to do tonight。
is to release you into that purpose,。
to release you through the empowerment of the Holy Spirit。
into the purpose that He has for you.。
And as I was praying about this,。
I felt led to a famous passage of scripture。
in the Old Testament.。
It's one that we've actually spoken on a few times before。
in our years in the past, Ezekiel 37,。
which is the famous chapter of the Valley of Dry Bones。
and Ezekiel's vision of this Valley of Dry Bones.。
And I know it's a familiar passage,。
but I wanna jump into it briefly here tonight。
because I think we see some principles there。
that will then facilitate the prayer time。
that we wanna focus on here this evening.。
When Ezekiel's prophesying,。
it's really important that you understand。
he's prophesying in the exile period.。
He's known as one of the exilic prophets.。
The exile period, it was about 650 or so years before Christ。
and it was the time where the Babylonians。
had come into Jerusalem because God was judging His people。
because of their idolatry and idol worship,。
He allowed Babylon to come in.。
They destroyed much of Jerusalem.。
They pulled down the temple and destroyed much of the temple。
and they took a remnant of Israel into exile.。
Now, this is one of the darkest times of Israel's history.。
It's one of the driest times that they have spiritually。
because whilst they're in exile,。
they're asking some pretty big questions。
of God and themselves.。
They're like, why is this happened?。
We thought God was on our side.。
Why are we now in this place where it feels like God。
is so distant from us?。
It feels like things are so dry。
and it feels really hard for us.。
And then they began to realize that actually the reason。
they're in exile is because of their sin,。
because of their idolatry and their brokenness.。
And so then they're beginning to be discouraged。
'cause they're like, well, is God ever gonna forgive us?。
Is God ever gonna change the situation。
or are we now just kind of condemned people?。
And so God raises up prophets like Ezekiel。
to speak into that dry moment of Israel's history.。
And Ezekiel speaks both the judgment side。
and he helps Israel to wrestle with the reality。
that their sin has brought them into this place.。
But then in chapter 36, 37 and onwards,。
he shifts the narrative.。
And he begins to speak hope again.。
He begins to speak a change is going to happen.。
That the spirit of God is gonna pour out and change hearts.。
That the old and stone kind of concrete style hearts。
are gonna become hearts of flesh again.。
And that he's gonna bring a revival by his spirit.。
And Ezekiel begins to prophesy for this messianic hope。
that is going to come a new savior。
where God will act in the world again。
like he has never acted before.。
And so, although this is a dry time,。
change is going to happen.。
Are you with me?。
And I wanna pick up the story right here。
where he sees this incredible vision,。
because this is the turning point。
for a people who were primed for purpose,。
but we're currently lost.。
He says this, Ezekiel 37 verse one.。
"The hand of the Lord was upon me。
and he brought me out by the spirit of the Lord。
and set me in the middle of a valley.。
It was full of bones.。
He led me back and forth among them。
and I saw a great many bones on the floor of the valley,。
bones that were very dry.。
And then he asked me this,。
'Son of man, can these bones live?'"。
Son of man, can these bones live?。
What might seem like a pretty straightforward question。
for us that we would think probably has some sort。
of straightforward answer was anything but for Ezekiel.。
Because Ezekiel understood the bigger context。
behind the vision that he was seeing.。
It's really important you understand this.。
This is not the first time that God has spoken to a prophet。
about a valley of dry bones.。
In fact, God has previously spoken to Jeremiah。
about the very same thing.。
Interestingly, Ezekiel remember is prophesying。
during the exile period, Jeremiah prophesied pre-exile.。
So before Babylon had come in and destroyed Jerusalem。
and pulled down the temple,。
Jeremiah is raised up by God to prophesy。
about the way in which Israel was in idol worship.。
And Jeremiah has some pretty tough things to say to Israel。
because they're at a point where Jeremiah is like,。
"If you don't repent, if you don't change,。
then something is going to happen."。
Of course, that's the exile.。
So in Jeremiah, I want you to,。
I'm just gonna jump back to chapter eight of Jeremiah。
and I wanna read you some words that God brings。
through Jeremiah to bring this idea。
of the idol worship to Israel.。
Chapter eight, verse one of Jeremiah.。
"At that time, declares the Lord,。
the bones of the king," notice this,。
"the bones of the kings and the officials of Judah,。
the bones of the priests and the prophets,。
the bones of the people of Jerusalem。
will be removed from their graves.。
They will be exposed to the sun and the moon。
and all the stars of heaven,。
which they have loved and consulted and worshiped."。
There's the idol worship.。
"But we will be like refuge."。
So they will not be gathered up or buried,。
but they will be like refuge lying on the ground.。
I wonder if you can hear what's happening here.。
God through Jeremiah is bringing this judgment。
upon God's people and he's saying,。
"Look, there's a valley that's gonna happen。
and there's all these bones。
that are gonna be brought out of the graves。
and they're gonna be scattered in this valley。
and the sun and the moon are gonna beat down on them。
and they're gonna dry up。
and it's gonna be like refuge on the ground."。
This was God's judgment against Israel.。
So a number of years later, here's Ezekiel。
and he suddenly gets a vision。
and it's a vision of dry bones。
and immediately he connects it。
to what happened for Jeremiah.。
Immediately he goes back and he makes that connection.。
So when God says, "Son of man, can these bones live?"。
Notice this, Ezekiel is now in a tough spot.。
Can you understand the context here?。
Imagine if you put yourself in Ezekiel's sandals.。
It's almost like this is a lose-lose question.。
'Cause if he says, "Yes, they can live."。
God's like, "But I brought judgment on these people."。
If he says, "No, they can't."。
God could say, "Well, don't you think I can?"。
And so Ezekiel is sort of in this tough spot.。
Now notice God says to him,。
"Son of man, can these bones live?"。
God is emphasizing the humanity of Ezekiel。
and he's basically asking Ezekiel as a human being,。
"Do you think as a human being。
that these things can come to life?。
The things that I have judged as dead?"。
Notice how smart Ezekiel is.。
Notice how he responds, I love this.。
He says, "Oh, sovereign Lord, you alone know."。
Oh, that was clever.。
Wasn't that good?。
You alone know.。
But I want you to see actually what's happening here.。
Notice first of all, what Ezekiel says.。
He says, "Oh, sovereign Lord."。
God has just said to him, "Oh, son of man."。
By emphasizing his humanity,。
he responds with, "Oh, sovereign Lord."。
Emphasizing, you could argue overemphasizing God's divinity.。
Notice the word sovereign here。
'cause this is really important.。
Ezekiel is saying, "Look, you are sovereign.。
You are the ultimate power."。
Ezekiel is walking in the opposite spirit。
to what Israel had done before when Jeremiah judged them.。
'Cause in those days, they were looking up to the skies。
and worshiping the stars。
and worshiping anything other than the true Yahweh.。
Here's Ezekiel in exile, and he's saying,。
"You're sovereign.。
You're the greatest.。
There is no other name better than your name.。
You know everything.。
You hold everything together."。
It's him walking in the opposite spirit.。
Do you see that?。
This is not a desperation.。
This is a statement of faith.。
He's saying, "Oh, sovereign Lord,。
because you are the ultimate power,。
you hold everything in your hands."。
He then says, "You alone know."。
He's not saying, notice this.。
He's not saying, "I have no idea."。
He's not saying, "I'm completely confused.。
I don't know what's going on.。
I have no idea."。
He's simply saying this, "You are sovereign.。
I am not.。
You are God.。
I am not."。
Because you're sovereign,。
if you wanted to bring something。
that you condemned to death to life again,。
that's your prerogative.。
That is in your hands.。
You alone know.。
This is an expression of Ezekiel saying,。
"I trust you, and I expect that whatever it is。
that you wanna happen will take place."。
It's a beautiful expression of faith.。
Some of you in this room,。
you're wondering at the start of this year,。
will this marriage live?。
Some of you perhaps are wrestling,。
will my job survive?。
Or will I get laid off in the economy。
that we're facing at the moment?。
Some of you might be like,。
"I don't know if my body is gonna get healed。
of this disease."。
We know that there's a number of people in our community。
who are dealing with very difficult。
terminal illnesses right now.。
And perhaps you're wondering,。
will I actually live?。
And these are the big questions of life.。
But I wonder whether we could take a little page。
from Ezekiel's book here,。
who basically says, "Oh, sovereign Lord,。
you alone know."。
In other words, I believe that you can do all things.。
I believe that everything is in your hands.。
I believe that you could move。
and do something that I could never do.。
You're a miracle-making God.。
You alone know if that's something。
you're gonna do or not.。
But I'm gonna submit myself,。
not to the worship of stars,。
not to the worship of some moons.。
I'm gonna give myself only over。
to the sovereignty and the power of God。
and say, "If it's in your hands to do it,。
it will happen."。
Are you with me?。
You alone know, he says.。
You alone know.。
Notice how God responds to this,。
picking it up from verse four.。
So then God said to me,。
"Prophesy to these bones and say to them,。
'Dry bones, hear the word of the Lord.。
This is what the sovereign Lord says to these bones.。
I will make breath enter you,。
and you will come to life.。
I will attach tendons to you。
and make flesh come upon you。
and cover you with skin.。
I will put my breath in you。
and you will come to life.。
Then you will know that I am the Lord.'。
So I prophesied as I was commanded.。
And as I was prophesying,。
there was a noise and a rattling sound.。
And the bones came together, bone to bone.。
I looked and tendons and flesh。
appeared on them and skin covered them,。
but there was no breath in them."。
I love what happens here.。
Follow the story.。
God has said, "Son of man, can these bones live?"。
Asking if Ezekiel was gonna walk。
in a different way to his ancestors.。
Ezekiel responds, "Sovereign Lord, only you know.。
You alone know."。
Now, what God could have done at this moment。
is said, "Great answer, Ezekiel.。
Okay, I want you to stand back, Ezekiel,。
'cause watch what only I can do."。
And God could have jumped into the scene。
and sort of gathered up all those bones。
and had Ezekiel stand there eating popcorn。
whilst he does the most amazing thing ever。
and brings his army together and releases them.。
And basically says, "Israel is gonna go forward。
and do all these great things."。
And basically Ezekiel could have been a bystander。
to the amazing miracle,。
but that's not the way God works.。
You need to see this 'cause this is so important.。
God could have done it that way,。
but he doesn't do it that way.。
He instead says to Ezekiel,。
"I want you to partner with me in this process."。
He says, "I want you to prophesy to the bones.。
I want you to prophesy to the flesh.。
I want you to prophesy that this is going to happen."。
In other words, God's like, "The miracle is still mine.。
It's not yours, Ezekiel.。
I'm the one who's actually gonna make the change.。
I'm the one who's gonna bring the bones together,。
but I want you to partner with me in that process.。
I want you to be a mouthpiece, a conduit.。
I want you to be involved in this process.。
It's not your miracle, Ezekiel.。
You are right, only I know, but guess what?。
I wanna involve you.。
I want you to be a part of it.。
I want you to actually get to experience what it's like。
to see my glory come to the earth。
through the brokenness of you."。
Isn't that beautiful?。
See, we need to understand that this is the way God。
has always worked from this point forward,。
that he's always decided to use his broken vessels。
for his glory.。
Paul would later write of it this way.。
He would say, "It's like we're jars of clay,。
but there's this treasure that has been placed。
inside of jars of clay.。
In our brokenness, that treasure is released.。
There's something beautiful.。
It's his glory.。
It's his treasure, not ours.。
But there's something about the glory of God。
that is seen even more glorious when it comes out of us."。
When it comes through these broken vessels。
who for some reason God has decided。
he's going to partner with.。
See, God chooses to work through us,。
not because he thinks we're so great。
that we need to be involved,。
but because he is so gracious,。
he doesn't want us to be left out.。
Come on, church, follow this.。
'Cause he could have done it all on himself。
and Ezekiel would have stood back and gone,。
"Wow, that was amazing."。
Instead he said, "Prophesy, speak, take action, Ezekiel.。
I want you to be a part of this.。
In fact, I'm not gonna bring the bones together。
unless you open your mouth."。
What a challenge that must've been for Ezekiel.。
And he says, "So I start prophesying."。
I love the obedience of Ezekiel.。
He doesn't know what's gonna happen,。
but he starts prophesying how he's taught to be prophesied。
and he sees this thing happen and this stuff takes place。
and it blows him away.。
But then he goes, "But there's no breath in them."。
This is interesting.。
He's seen bones come together,。
flesh and muscle come on those bones,。
but he's basically like, "There's no breath here though."。
Now this is interesting 'cause in scripture,。
breath and life are always brought together.。
And in Ezekiel saying, "I didn't see breath on them."。
What he's basically saying is,。
"I don't see that these things can actually do。
the thing that you're calling them to do。
'cause there's just no life there yet."。
He's going back to Genesis chapter two。
into that beautiful moment。
where God creates the first human being.。
Remember that moment?。
God creates Adam out of the dust of the ground。
and he forms and shapes Adam.。
Now I want you to see this.。
He shapes Adam as a human being,。
but there's no breath in him to begin with.。
You need to understand that Adam was primed for purpose.。
Come on church.。
He was primed for purpose.。
He was about to be told that he was gonna basically go。
and look after the land and flourish it,。
that he was gonna meet with Eve。
and that they would come together。
and begin to multiply in the world.。
He's about to be given all this incredible stuff.。
Adam is primed for purpose, but he's not yet alive.。
So the breath of God comes in Genesis two。
and brings Adam to life。
so that his purpose could be into action.。
You with me?。
So here's years later, Ezekiel seeing a valley of dry bones,。
seeing all these bones come together。
and creating lots of Adams in his vision.。
Lots of human beings have come together,。
but he says there's no breath in them.。
There's a vast army that is primed for purpose without life.。
And then God says this.。
Then he said to me, "Prophesy to the breath,。
"prophesy son of man and say to it,。
"this is what the sovereign Lord says,。
"come from the four winds, oh breath。
"and breathe into these slain that they may live."。
So I prophesied as he commanded me and breath entered them.。
They came to life and stood on their feet, a vast army.。
See, they were primed for purpose, but without life.。
And as he prophesied the breath,。
the purpose that they had been primed for。
was able to come to life.。
They came to life to be able to live out。
and do the things that they were being called to do.。
This is a prophetic vision。
about what's about to happen to Israel。
as they come out of exile, go back into their land。
and begin to pray for a Messiah to come.。
And I want you to see the process。
that's taking place here in this passage.。
This is really important.。
So from dry and weary bones scattered across the valley floor。
to a group gathered together with flesh and muscles。
with primed for purpose, but yet waiting for life。
to then a situation where the breath of God has come。
bringing them to life and therefore to action.。
That three-step process you can find。
throughout the scriptures from this point forward.。
That when God comes with his spirit,。
he takes things that are lost and broken and scattered.。
He draws them together.。
He then fills them with his spirit, his life, his breath,。
his purposes, and then they move forward。
in what it is that God has them to do.。
The most profound example of this, of course,。
is found right there at the end of Jesus's life.。
Remember the moment where he's gathered。
his disciples together,。
and they're still confused at this time.。
They're a little bit overwhelmed。
and they're confused about what's going on.。
And they see Jesus in his resurrected form。
and he takes them up a mountain, all 11 of them.。
Judas is no longer there with them, Judas.。
They're up there on this mountain.。
And this amazing thing happens.。
Jesus gives them the great commandment,。
the great commission, sorry,。
to go out into all the world。
and to preach the father, the son, and the Holy Spirit,。
and to baptize people,。
and to help them to follow all the teachings that God has,。
and I'll be with you forever.。
So they're suddenly, notice this, primed with purpose.。
You with me?。
They're filled with the purposes of God,。
but then he says something to them very importantly.。
He says, "But do not yet go."。
Oh, you're primed for purpose.。
Oh, I've just given you the great commission.。
You know what you need to do.。
But if you try to do it in your own strength,。
if you try to get out there and try to preach my gospel。
without my breath on you, that's not gonna go well.。
So stay in Jerusalem and receive power from on high.。
He says, "You will receive that power。
and then you will be my witnesses."。
If you go before that power, you won't be my witnesses.。
But when you receive that power, that breath, if you will,。
will come upon you, the dry bones will come to life,。
and you will see what I can do through you.。
Remember, it's his miracle still.。
Just like for Ezekiel,。
Ezekiel doesn't bring the bones together, God does that.。
But in partnership with Ezekiel,。
he gets to see the glory of God at work.。
And here's what you can see in the New Testament.。
These disciples who were confused and scared。
and hiding behind locked doors,。
thinking that they might be the next ones crucified,。
they are so filled with the Holy Spirit in Acts chapter two,。
that suddenly they begin to courageously preach the gospel。
and 3,000 are added to their number on the first day alone.。
The fact that you're sitting in this room tonight。
confessing Jesus as your Lord and Savior。
was because they were filled with the breath of God.。
This is what Ezekiel sees.。
He sees a vast army stand before him,。
alive with the breath of God,。
primed for the purposes of his kingdom.。
And here's what I'm sensing God is saying to us at the Vine.。
He's saying, "You guys are primed for purpose.。
2025 is gonna be the most incredible year。
for the church, for you personally,。
for your families, for your work.。
I believe that this is gonna be your greatest year ahead.。
You are primed for purpose.。
I wanna pray for you then.。
I want our pastors and our leaders and our elders。
to lay our hands on you."。
If we really believe this, and this is not just words,。
then we need to put this into action.。
'Cause this is a year of action.。
And so I'm gonna shut up, praise God.。
And in a moment, I'm gonna invite you to come forward。
to be prayed for.。
And we're gonna have about 25 minutes to do this.。
We got plenty of time.。
Now we're not gonna pray for one person for 25 minutes.。
Just wanna be clear.。
We did that, about 30 of you will get prayed for, okay?。
We're gonna pray for a couple of minutes.。
A couple of minutes for the glory of God,。
for the spirit of God to come and to touch your life.。
For some of you in this room,。
this will be the first time that you will feel。
like you've received the Holy Spirit.。
And I couldn't be more excited for you.。
I want you to be courageous and come forward for prayer.。
For some of you, perhaps you've received。
the Holy Spirit before.。
This is about an empowerment for the purposes。
of which God has for you this year.。
And so it's just inviting us to pray for you for that.。
For some of you, you might have some very specific things。
that you would like prayer for.。
Please share that with us.。
We will pray that the Holy Spirit will empower you。
for whatever it's had.。
This is for everyone.。
In the upper house, we have four of our pastors.。
There'll be two at the front and two at the back.。
We wanna encourage you to get up out of your seat.。
I know it's gonna be messy.。
I know it's gonna be crazy。
'cause the rows are pretty tightly packed up there.。
But if you would like prayer,。
we will be here until every person gets prayed for.。
Upper house, are you okay?。
Upper house, are you okay?。
All right.。
Here at the lower house,。
we've got a whole bunch of pastors and elders。
who are prepared.。
They've been praying for this moment.。
They would love to pray for you.。
So here's what I would love you to do.。
Let's have everybody stand.。
We're gonna have some worship happening,。
but it's gonna be quiet in the backgrounds。
because this is about prayer right now.。
And so can I invite all the pastors and elders。
and the prayer team to come forward。
just to make themselves available right here in the middle.。
You'll notice that they'll be wearing lanyards.。
So if you would like to receive prayer from someone,。
I wanna encourage you, come on,。
let's not miss this opportunity.。
You're primed for purpose.。
Now the Holy Spirit wants to come and touch you,。
fill you, release you,。
and send you out into the purposes。
for what He has for you in 2025, amen.。
So let me pray for us to begin with.。
And then I wanna encourage you to be courageous。
to come forward for prayer.。
Father, we just thank you so much.。
We thank you that what you did with Ezekiel。
was to change the way that he thought。
about the way in which you worked in this world.。
From that point forward, Lord,。
people began to look for you to step in。
and do what only you can do.。
And we begin to see in the New Testament。
how the disciples who were most of them unlearned,。
not from great backgrounds,。
people that the world would have rejected,。
who become the most courageous and bold people,。
that they would see the gospel eventually。
in just 300 years completely transform。
the Greek Roman Empire.。
Lord, I believe that there is a vast army。
standing in this room right now.。
Children of God who have been called by God。
who are here in Hong Kong.。
And Lord, your city desperately needs a vast army。
filled with courage and boldness。
for the gospel of Jesus Christ.。
So Lord, we pray.。
Lord, we pray.。
So if you'd like prayer, upper house, lower house,。
don't be shy, come on forward,。
and we're gonna pray for you.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
[MUSIC]。
