With the fullness of Him who fills everything in every way be upon us for the glory of Jesus。
And everybody says。
Amen, amen。
Have a seat have a seat. It's so wonderful to have you with us。
We're in the final week of our four week series on personal transformation. Is this series been helping any of you?。
Yeah, like nine of you. Great. We。
Know I know that actually many of us have been really touched by what we've been doing in this series。
Looking at this pivotal moment in Israel's history a real moment of uncharted time for them where they are。
miraculously released out of their exile in Babylon。
By the Persian Authority and by the king of Persia Cyrus and they're released back to Jerusalem a city that they had left。
some 70 years before and they find themselves standing in the rubble and the ruins of that city a。
Walls which 70 years beforehand had been pulled down a temple that had been destroyed。
And now they're standing in that rubble and they're asking themselves a big question。
Can what is rubble today become a glorious temple tomorrow?。
and as they begin to see the。
First builders come and begin to lay the stones of both the wall that had been broken and the temple that had been pulled down。
both excitement and。
Challenge rise up in the hearts of the people of God。
Believing that God and God alone can take what something right now looks like。
Destruction and turn it into his glory。
And we've been saying in this series that that we're using this this moment that we've been looking at from Ezra chapter 3 of the of。
The rebuilding of the temple where we're using this as a as a metaphor really of what the Lord wants to do in our hearts。
The reality that for every single one of us, right?。
We know what it is to have things that lie in ruin within us like those walls in the temple for Israel. So for us。
pain and hurt from our past。
trauma that we've struggled to deal with。
Disappointments that we've had maybe things that have taken place that we regret。
Maybe sin that we're holding or or sin in the past that we struggle to let go of。
Maybe suffering that's come upon us not from any mistake。
We've made but it's still a suffering that we carry today all of us. We have rubble we have ruin within us。
And over this series we've been speaking about this audacity to believe and this hope within us that might say。
That despite the fact that we can all sense a rubble within us what the enemy。
Meant for evil the Lord can turn for good。
And as we finish the series here today, we're not finishing this transformation journey that the Lord has。
For us here at the vine. We're in a very beautiful season right now。
Where the Spirit is moving prophetically and powerfully amongst us and your transformation journey is not a four-week sermon series。
It is a journey which will lead you beyond here into。
Many twists and turns in the months ahead。
And so what I want to do in this final message is help to connect you to what I think is one of the most。
Significant things that we need to understand if we're going to be steadfast in the journey。
That's ahead and this thing that we're looking at today。
It's found in Ezra chapter 3 and 4 as they're dealing with what's happening with the temple。
But it's even more beautifully represented for us in the rebuilding of the wall that is found in Nehemiah。
So although in this series, we've been kind of sat in Ezra。
I want to shift us now to the book of Nehemiah as we close you might remember in week one。
I spoke about this historic moment where the。
Israelites are in that exile and they're released from exile to go back to Jerusalem in three waves。
Remember this so the first wave was Zerubbabel the leader who led a bunch of people back to rebuild the temple in。
The second wave Nehemiah as the leader brings people back to rebuild the walls that have been broken down。
And the third wave was Ezra leading the remaining people back to Jerusalem to reestablish the law。
So we've been looking at Zerubbabel over the last number of weeks. I want to finish by looking here today at Nehemiah。
And as we do this my prayer for you。
Is that this teaching will be something that will be like a like a linchpin in your mind like something in your spirit in your heart。
That you'd be able to take this thing and build on it in the weeks months and years ahead。
I feel like what we're going to be talking about today for some of you will be a shifting point in this journey of。
Transformation that you're in let's start here in Nehemiah。
Chapter 4 and I'm going to start in verse 1。
Although you can see my page in Ephesians is ripped and it is trying to escape my Bible sit in the name of Jesus。
Okay。
Nehemiah chapter 4 verse 1。
When Sambalat and I'll explain who that is in a moment heard that we were this is Nehemiah writing。
We're rebuilding the wall. He became angry and greatly incensed. Let's just stop here for a moment。
Let me give you some context so that we can kind of really understand this this this passage and background。
We know that Israel has been for 70 years in exile in Babylon。
But we know that the king of Persia Cyrus has come and now has released them to go back to Jerusalem。
And while Jerusalem over those 70 years has laid in ruins. It's not actually been empty。
Over the seven years that the Israelites the remnant have been in exile other nations have come and taken up positions within the city themselves。
Particularly four nations there was a nation of Samaria。
So you remember from week one when the Assyrians came down and attacked the ten tribes that had gone north。
Remember that their policy was to intermarry with the women there creating a new race。
That was half Jewish half Gentile that becomes known as the Samaritans and the Samaritans in the New Testament。
We know are hated by the Jewish people because they're a reminder of what happened with this。
Interbreeding between the Gentiles and the Jewish so they were north and Sambalat is the leader of those people。
There was also a nation to the right the Ammonites and their leader was Tobias。
There was a nation below who were the Arabians the people from Arabia in that area and then over on the west side。
There was a whole group of people called the people of Ashod now both Samaria the Ammonites the Arabians。
And the people from Ashod had moved in and taken up occupation of certain areas of Jerusalem。
Totally illegally, but in their minds they were thinking well the Jewish people have been desecrated. They're never coming back。
We may as well take some of this land for ourselves。
But now that Persia。
Oversaw the land and the king had given Nehemiah and Edith for him to have the permission from the king to rebuild the walls。
Those people who had been occupying that space begin to realize that their time now is very。
Limited and we see in the scripture here that Sambalat as he sees Israel beginning to rebuild the fortifications of their city。
He's angry and greatly incensed and this is understandable。
Because what's gonna happen here is that through him and a bunch of his cronies. They're gonna bring。
Opposition to the wall and the rebuilding process。
We also see this opposition that comes to the rebuilding of the temple and it's fascinating。
Because no matter what the Lord might be doing upon us no matter what transformation process that we are in。
Even if it has been God ordained。
God chosen the reality is the enemy is not going to like it。
The reality is is that the enemy is going to turn his face against it。
The reality is that there is going to be opposition and here's how often that opposition takes place。
Usually it comes from the people who are going to be stripped of their power if we are changed and transformed。
Opposition so often comes from the very voices of those who are likely to be threatened in their own authority or their。
own power by your transformation and here is Sambalat and his buddies and they're seeing that if Israel。
Refortified their walls their power is going to go and so he's angry. He's greatly incensed and he brings。
opposition to this process of rebuilding。
Now, I don't know about you, but this might seem somewhat kind of weird and kind of strange。
What's happening here because as Christians we can often think don't we that you look hey God's called me to this。
God's asked me to do this. This is actually God's project. It's not mine. He's the one who's giving me hope and faith。
He's the one who's asked me to focus on this transformation process that I'm in if God's in it。
Well, surely I'm gonna be blessed。
Well, surely if God's in it, everything's gonna be fine, right? Like if God has called me to it, then surely it's going to be smooth sailing。
You have to understand that perhaps one of the most damaging and yet attractive。
False Gospels that there is is the one that says that because you are in the will of God。
Everything's going to be easy。
Come on church. That is a false gospel。
in fact。
You can go through the pages of scripture and you can see some of the greatest heroes of the faith and they will tell you that。
Their story was something different。
But yeah, God had called them。
Yes。
God had equipped them God had a great plan and a purpose for their lives and they stepped out in faith。
But man, did they come up against opposition man? Was it challenging man? Was it difficult man?。
Was it hard man was there their time and where they wanted to give up where they wanted to go?。
They realized so often through the journey that they were weak that they didn't have it。
But every time they would say look God called me to this he's faithful, but that does not mean it's easy。
That doesn't mean that this is all gonna go smooth sailing. It doesn't mean that it's all gonna be rainbows and my little ponies。
Here's the true gospel。
The true gospel is that we have a God who doesn't miraculously just suddenly remove opposition from us。
We have a God who's decided to come down and stand in that opposition with us。
We have a God where the true gospel is a God who's willing to suffer who's willing to feel pain。
Who's willing to stand in the gap who's willing to walk the hard yards?。
Knowing that it is only through death and resurrection。
That true life can come。
You know Jesus himself was tempted by this false gospel。
Remember that moment where just after his baptism before he starts his ministry。
The Holy Spirit leads him into the wilderness to be tested by Satan for 40 days and nights。
and the second of those temptations is that Satan takes Jesus up to the top of this high mountain and he shows him all of the。
Nations of the world in their glory and their splendor and Satan says this to Jesus. He says Jesus if you just worship me。
I'll give everything to you。
See Jesus knew that his calling was to redeem the world and here's Satan saying you can take the world without the cross。
You can take the my little pony route if you just worship me。
And we know in the story that Jesus。
Resists that temptation quote scripture at Satan and makes the choice not just then but every step of the way。
To say even though it's gonna be super hard super difficult. It's gonna be painful. There's gonna be suffering involved。
I know that the way to true redemption is not to worship somebody who's gonna suddenly give it all to me。
It's to actually pay the price for the world's sin on my shoulders through the pain of the cross and the wonder of the resurrection。
And the gospel sits on this profound idea that our God was willing to suffer。
and in the beauty of the resurrection。
We have a God who has as we've just seen from that song and as we just read from the book of Ephesians。
That now he is seated at the right hand of the father and there's no other title。
No other name no other power that is higher than him。
Everything is under his feet and in the wonder of that power. He has poured out his love to the church。
See the wonder of the gospel that we stand for。
Is that we have a God who meets us in our place of death and resurrection。
This is why Jesus himself said if you want to follow me。
You're gonna need to have to deny yourself and pick up your cross。
Then you can follow me。
That's why in the New Testament the。
writers like Paul and Peter and others speak so often about our own journey of death and resurrection。
Paul saying these wonderful words in Corinthians saying I'm willing to take the dying side if that means you can have the rising side。
So our gospel is not if you're in the will of God everything's gonna be great。
Our gospel is sometimes the will of God means things are gonna feel like death。
and resurrection。
So the sober reality is if you're in a season of personal transformation in your life hear this you are going to be opposed。
It's gonna be hard. It's gonna be tough. It's gonna be some pain。
Involved and that opposition is gonna come from people around you who feel like their power is being stripped because you are getting better。
That opposition is gonna come from unjust systemic issues in society around us。
That opposition is gonna come directly from satanic influence in our lives and also hear this that opposition is gonna come from yourself。
The way you think about yourself。
The way you reflect on yourself what you believe about yourself how you see your identity。
Sometimes we're our worst enemy and sometimes the greatest opposition to the movement of the Lord in our lives is not everything else。
I just talked about it's merely the fact that we are preaching a false gospel to ourselves。
The beautiful thing we have is that in Nehemiah 4, 5, and 6 just these three chapters。
We see the story of the rebuilding of the walls of Jerusalem and in this we see。
specific moments of opposition to that rebuilding and as we study these chapters what you can learn are some great tips if you will。
some great understanding of what opposition is going to look like in your journey and。
So for Israel and theirs I think also for us。
What we're just about to look at in a moment is how opposition comes for Israel in the rebuilding of the wall in。
three times right at the start of the process of the building right in the middle of the process and just。
before completion at the end。
And in your own journey of personal transformation the same is going to happen to you。
These attacks could happen at any time, but you are gonna have profound opposition when you start。
You're gonna have some profound opposition in the middle and you're gonna be really oppressed right towards the end and these。
Oppositions are designed to make sure that you never complete the transformation that the Lord has on his heart for you。
And so I'm really excited because we're actually going to expose these enemy strategies here this morning。
And as we expose these and look at these three。
Oppositions that come my prayer is that this will equip you to be stronger in the journey that you in。
Remember this is not going to equip you to never be opposed。
to never feel these oppositions。
Instead I'm hoping it'll give in your mind and in your spirit an understanding of the way that the enemy works。
But also a way in which the Lord。
Renews and redeems even within it. So father。
I pray that as we open your word here this morning, this would be life for every single one of us。
Lord, we all recognize some of the opposition that is against us。
External to us and also internal in our own narrative。
Lord, we want to pray that as we move forward as a church in the months ahead to this journey of transformation。
That what we see in your word today would be the very rear guard that we need for all the things that are ahead。
We pray this in Jesus name。
So let's go back to Nehemiah 4 verse 1. So the very first。
Opposition that will always come in a season of personal transformation。
Often at the start of that season is the opposition of ridicule。
Let me read this to you from Nehemiah 4 first three verses。
When Sambalat heard that they were rebuilding the wall, he became angry and was greatly incensed。
He ridiculed the Jews and in the presence of his associates and the army of Samaria。
He said what are these feeble Jews doing? Will they restore their wall? Will they offer their sacrifices?。
Will they finish in a day?。
Can they bring the stones back to life from the heaps of rubble that they are burned as they are?。
Tobiah the Ammonite who was at his side said this what they are building if even a fox climbed up on it。
He would break down their walls of stone。
Can you hear it?。
These two guys are like, you know in the Muppets the grumpy old men on the balcony。
That's like what these two guys are and it's always like I love Tobiah。
It's like Sambalat is like saying all these things against Israel and Tobiah is like the small guy。
Standing next to him and at the end he's like throws in his two pieces and it's about some fox climbing on them。
And you can almost feel Sambalat going shut up。
Ridicule is。
the central opposition that will come to you at the beginning of a building process, the beginning of a rebuilding of something in your life。
At this point they have begun to rebuild the walls。
The first stones are being put into place and Sambalat begins to speak this ridicule over Israel because the plan。
Is to try to disrupt them right at the start。
And Sambalat begins by saying a couple of questions. Let me break these down quickly。
He says first of all, what are these feeble Jews doing? I love this Sambalat starts by saying you're feeble。
Do you really think that you can do this project?。
The word in the Hebrew that's Nehemiah uses for feeble here is a word that normally is associated with plants and the idea of a plant。
Withering like a plant dying and withering and he starts by saying will these withering。
Jewish people be able to have any strength whatsoever。
Now this is really important. I want you to see something here。
the reason why ridicule is so powerful particularly at the beginning of a transformation process is。
Because ridicule often comes with an element of truth。
The most powerful ridicule that will be impactful in your life are those ridicules that connect with something that might be actually true in you。
Because at this point in time。
Actually Israel is withered。
They are a very small reflection of the strength of the nation that they were 70 years ago。
Whilst they don't use the word withered about themselves. The word that is used is remnant。
They're a remnant of what they used to be. They don't have that powerful city. They used to have they don't have a powerful army anymore。
There's just a few feeble groups of Jewish people that are believing in a God who can do。
Everything greater than they would ever do but ridicule hurts。
Ridicule has power because there's an element of truth within it. Oh。
You want to be an entrepreneur。
You want to be an entrepreneur you can't even hold down a job let alone run your own business. Oh。
You want to get married?。
*laughs*。
Sorry, you want to get married? Have you looked in the mirror lately?。
I wasn't pointing at anyone by the way, I just want to like。
There's like a dead space over here. I'm。
pointing at the dead space。
But we know right ridicule actually really hurts because it picks up on a half-truth inside us。
Yeah, I actually have failed in my business before why would I think that this time I'm gonna do better?。
Yeah。
I guess I'm not in the physical shape that I thought I would always be in and I guess I'm not gonna be attractive to。
Anyone or whatever it is, but we wrestle don't we with these half-truths now。
I want you to see what the ridicule connected to truth is trying to do。
It's trying to highlight something that might be true in you, but that isn't important to God。
So it might be true in you. Yeah, I am feeling a bit weak. Yeah, I guess I've always failed。
Yes, I do. I feel bad about myself and God is saying that's actually not the important thing here。
But what ridicule does is it picks up on that and what it causes us to do is stop thinking about God and start thinking。
about ourselves。
It means that we begin to put our place ourself in the center place right at the beginning of the project。
When we should be going hey God's in this God's called me。
I don't think I have all the strength inside of me。
But you know what I'm gonna walk in faith believing that he can equip me. He can resource me。
He can do things that I never thought I could ever do。
I'm gonna put my trust in a God who is able to do immeasurably more than I ever I could ask or imagine。
According to the power that is a work in the church or whatever it might be。
But we begin to stand like rather than do that. We begin to think yeah, I guess the ridicule is right. I。
Guess I am feeble. I guess I don't have it and this feeble attack。
attacks physical identity。
How we see ourselves。
But notice his second question he then goes on he says will they restore their wall?。
The first one is attack on physical identity. The second one still ridicule is the attack on their actual mental strength。
Do you really think you can do it?。
Do you think you have the ability? Do you think you can restore the wall? Will they restore the project?。
Hey, you're right at the start. There's a long way to go。
Have you seen how much rubble is around right now?。
like do you really think because if you think that you got to go check out some mental health class or something because。
Ridicule picks up on attacking not just our physical identity and how we see ourselves。
But the way in which we think the way in which our mind is our mental strength。
Will they restore their wall? It's almost like sound like taking bets in front of them. You're never going to do this。
And the third thing he says which I think is really interesting. He says will they offer。
Sacrifices so he's attacked through ridicule their physical identity。
He's then attacked the mental identity the way they think he's now attacking their spiritual identity。
Will you offer sacrifices?。
You can almost hear the taunt that Sam Malat is saying here. Remember think about the history。
You can almost hear Sam Malat saying your forefathers. They offered sacrifices right here in this city。
Oh, you used to have a beautiful temple where you offered sacrifices all the time. Look how that turned out for them。
Like have you seen that your forefathers put their faith in this God who turned his back on you?。
You went into exile and now you've returned in this place is a rubble amongst you。
You're gonna trust the same God that your forefathers trusted. Okay, go ahead. Let's see how that's gonna turn out。
Are you really gonna offer sacrifices to that one?。
Let me tell you about another God that you can offer sacrifices to one who can really help you。
For all of us when ridicule hits us right at the start of the project right at the start of a season of transformation。
We're very tempted to begin to second-guess what God has been saying to us。
Second guess our trust in him second guess the things that he's spoken into us by his word or or prayer or。
Somebody said something to us and it's given us that impetus to begin。
But very quickly as ridicule comes it begins to attack the very basic foundation of our faith。
Yeah, I don't know. Did God really say that? Is God really gonna come through? Yeah, I've seen him come through for others。
But yeah, let me stop and think about it actually for the actually so many of my prayers are unanswered。
So many yeah, everybody else seems to have a testimony about how great God is。
But if I think about my life, I'm not sure if it's really true for me。
So here's Sam Blatt and he's using ridicule to attack the three essential things physical identity mental strength。
spiritual life spiritual identity and when we as people are under this。
Opposition we begin to believe what ridicule is saying to us. Here's the two things that are always going to happen。
He mentions is it he says will they finish in a day?。
When we allow right at the start and this is why ridicule comes at the beginning of a process when we allow the ridicule to。
Come right at the start。
Here's what we begin to think because of my physical identity because of that thinking because of the spiritual stuff because everything now is in。
Doubt I'm thinking there's no way this could ever happen。
There's no way this will this will happen. I can't finish this。
It's not gonna take place and we're tempted to put down the tools straight away。
Look at the second or the final one。
He says this can they bring the stones back to life from the heaps of rubble?。
Burned as they are not only do we second-guess whether we can do it. We then second-guess the resources God has given us to do it。
Well, yeah, what about these stones? Yeah, they are burnout. Yeah, I don't know. I mean, I don't even know if we can do this。
I don't even know the resources there. This is what ridicule will do to you。
it'll cause you to doubt everything God has already said to you and。
It's right there at the start to stop that process。
So, let me let me pull all the threads together this first one and let me read it to you like this。
I want to I want to just make this clear。
Ridicule is designed to make us doubt that we have the physical mental or spiritual ability to achieve the transformation。
God longs for us if we don't fight this ridicule。
We will agree with the enemy that our transformation is too large to be accomplished and we don't have the right resources to achieve it。
And because of that。
We choose to stay in ruins。
The second opposition that will come to you in any season of personal transformation。
Which often happens in the middle of that transformation process is the opposition of feeling overwhelmed. I。
Watched the movie last night with my daughter and there was a line in the movie。
It was like you can be overwhelmed and you can be underwhelmed. But can you just be whelmed?。
If you know the movie you get an extra star, okay。
But this idea when we're in the middle of a transformation process。
This is where things can get really challenging for us because we've already done some work. We've already strengthened something。
But now we're in the middle of it. We're feeling a little bit tired and we're wondering can we keep going?。
Let me show you this from Nehemiah 4 just verse 6 onwards。
Nehemiah says so we rebuilt the wall to all of it reached about half of its height for the people worked with all of their。
Hearts, so they're halfway done. It's reached half of its height。
But when Sambalat there is again。
Tobiah and the Arabs and the Ammonites and the men of Ashod heard that the repairs of Jerusalem's wall had gone ahead and that there。
Were gaps being closed. They were very angry。
They all plotted together to come and fight against Jerusalem to stir up trouble against it。
But we prayed to our God and posted a guard day and night to meet this threat。
Meanwhile, the people in Judah said the strength of the laborers is giving out and there is so much rubble that we cannot。
Rebuild the wall. Also our enemy said before they know it or see us。
We will be right there among them and we will kill them and put an end to the work。
Then the Jews who lived near the wall, they came and told us ten times over wherever you turn。
They will attack us。
All right. I want you to see what's happening here。
In the middle of the process the armies and the enemies。
Against Israel and the rebuilding the wall decide for a full frontal attack on Israel and they decide to surround Israel。
Samaria from the north。
Yamanites from the east the Arabians from the south the people of Ashod from the west。
they're coming in and they're closing in on God's people and they're closing in with the threat of。
physical attack with the threat of actually trying to stop them physically from rebuilding the wall and we can see what this just。
Threat of being surrounded is doing to God's people notice。
They say this the strength of the laborers is giving out。
Wherever you turn they're going to attack us。
There's fear being risen up within Israel because they're feeling kind of。
Surrounded by attack on all sides the feeling of being。
Overwhelmed is one of the primary ways that the enemy will try to get you to stop your transformation process。
Right in the middle of it. I。
wonder if you've ever had an experience where you feel like。
Everything is all around you hemming you in and you feel like there's no escape and you don't know what to do。
Anyone ever felt that way?。
Just me and you。
You go brother。
Everybody else does as well, but they just won't admit it。
Okay。
So we all know that feeling that we are being hemmed in all around by everything coming against us at the same time and us。
Feeling so overwhelmed and here's what the feeling will do like this strength will be。
Sapped from us for the work that we have we will fear that will be attacked all the time。
And so what we want to do is move away from that project。
It's a fight-or-flight type thing and we choose flight every time。
We want to turn around turn away protect ourselves because the attack is coming from all around us。
Now this is the reason why this happens in the middle of the process listen to this。
My wife has this thing called caterpillar soup. She's a counselor. This is a counseling term. Apparently. Well, he's hers。
Let me explain when a caterpillar is in the process of the chrysalis to turn into a butterfly。
The caterpillar gets to the middle space where it's no longer recognizable as a caterpillar, but it is not yet a beautiful butterfly。
This is the middle of the change and at this point。
Scientists call it caterpillar soup。
The old is gone。
But the new has not yet come and when we're in that place the caterpillar is the most vulnerable。
And when we're in a place in the middle of a transformation process, we might get to a situation where our old self。
We've actually begun to deal with some stuff。
God's convicted us. We brought our sin to him。
We feel like we're being liberated from some of that old stuff。
But we recognize that our new stuff is not yet here and we're in this middle and it's there that the enemy will attack us。
And make us feel overwhelmed。
Notice how it says it here。
They actually say this the people had lost their strength and there's so much rubble that we cannot rebuild the wall。
Notice this. I think this is funny. They say there's so much rubble。
How could we ever do this and you could just stand back from a logical perspective and say hang on a sec。
There's 50% less rubble。
Then when you started because when you were started it was all rubble, but you've now rebuilt half of the wall。
So literally logically there's 50% less。
But when we're in that caterpillar suit moment and we're we've let go but we haven't yet fully been changed。
We find ourselves in that vulnerable place where everything feels like it's coming in upon us and we'll begin to look at what is still。
Around us and we're like there's so much still to be done. I。
Can't do it. I mean, I'm I'm exhausted already and I'm only halfway through。
Do you really think I can do this? There's so much rubble still here。
That's the enemy strategy。
to cause you in that middle moment to see all the things that are to come and。
Say you'll never get there。
It's not gonna happen for you. You may as well put the tools down now。
The third opposition that will come to you in any season of personal transformation。
Usually at the end of that season is the opposition of compromise。
Let me read this to you from Nehemiah chapter 6 starting in verse 1。
when the word came to Sambalat, Tobiah, Geshem。
And the Arabs and the rest of our enemies that I had rebuilt the wall and not a gap was left in it。
Though up to that time I had not yet set the doors in the gates。
Now notice this, so they have now almost completed the project all the walls have been constructed。
But the gates and there were many gates around the old walls of Jerusalem were not yet set in place。
So the project's not done yet。
But it's right towards the end. It's like he's been running a marathon。
He's entered into the stadium, but he's still got two laps. Are you with me?。
And then he says this he says Sambalat and Geshem sent me this message。
Come let us meet together in one of the villages on the plain of Ohno。
Notice this。
Right at the end of the projects the enemies come with their final opposition and here's the opposition. Hey, just come。
Come with us to the villages on the plains of Ohno。
The modern equivalent of this would be like right towards the end of an important project。
Where you need to be there leading that project whether that's a transformation you or something at work。
And then somebody comes to you and says hey, why don't we just escape for a little while to the beaches of Bali?。
Why don't we just get away? Oh you've worked so hard you tried your best。
Look, you've actually accomplished so much. Why don't you just you know put the tools down you deserve it。
You've worked hard. Why don't you just look after yourself a little bit man? You've been giving to everyone。
Now's the time to give to yourself. Let's just retreat to the plains of Ohno。
Plains of Ohno were about a whole day's journey north from Jerusalem。
In fact it would, this is Sambalat speaking, have placed if Nehemiah had gone placed him very close to Samaria itself。
And to the power of the armies there. Nehemiah actually discerns that that was their strategy。
But Ohno is this fascinating place. It was a beautiful plain many villages were there。
And these were relatively wealthy villages in those days。
It was actually a craftsman's village. So it's very likely that some of the builders of the wall。
Some of the craftsmen at the temple were from these villages in the plain of Ohno。
What Sambalat's trying to do is to say hey look you deserve to look after yourself a little bit。
You deserve to give to yourself. Man you've been working on behalf of everybody else。
You've been working on behalf of your God. Just put your tools down right before the end。
Why don't you just come and it'll be like somebody standing in the middle of the desert。
And it'll be like somebody standing in that stadium and shouting to the marathon runner。
You've done great. You've run so far. Look just come and sit here for a moment。
Like two more laps around and you're done. But no, no, no, just come sit down for a minute。
Why don't you just rest? Let everybody else run by you. Let's just rest for a bit。
You must, you've earned your rest. Well done my good and faithful servant。
The power of compromise right towards the end of it. Here's what it's designed to do。
It's designed to make you settle for three quarters of your transformation。
See God starts you out on a process of transformation and he has a picture in mind。
Of who he's desiring for you to be. And sometimes he gives us the idea of what that is。
And we're like wow could I ever be like that? Could that rubble ever be restored like that?。
And here's the temptation and the opposition of compromise as we enter into that stadium。
We want to take that seat and not complete the two laps because here's what we're thinking。
I'm okay with three quarters. I mean have you seen who I am?。
I'm not the person I used to be a few months ago. I mean God's already done so much in me。
God's already transformed so much. It was hard work. I had to pray about it。
I had to fight all that opposition. I went into therapy. It was difficult。
Look, I know I'm only three quarters changed but a three quarter changed me。
Is better than the me two months ago. And so the temptation that we have。
Is to say three quarters of what God wants is enough。
The enemy loves for you to settle just short of full redemption。
Full restoration, full healing, full life because he knows if he can get you to stop at three quarters。
Then after a while that's going to become 50%。
And after a while that's going to become a quarter。
And then just a few years later you're back to where you began。
That compromise is so a wrestle for us。
Here's an interesting thing. The word "ono" actually means grief。
Which is really quite fascinating because anytime you leave a place where God wants you to be。
To go where Satan wants you to go, you'll always end up in a place of grief。
Whenever you make that decision, I'm going to deviate from the place that I know God has asked me to be in。
And God is calling me to be in and the work that God is calling into my hands to do。
And I'm going to deviate from that. You're going to end up in a place of grief。
So these three oppositions, the opposition of ridicule right at the start。
The opposition of being overwhelmed in the middle。
And the opposition of compromise at the end come together to try to hold us back。
And the question is, what can we do?。
Knowing that the Lord is not going to remove these oppositions for us。
What can we do when they come?。
What is the strategy that is on God's heart to help us to stand up and steadfast。
When these oppositions are with us?。
Let me close by taking you to this bit that Nehemiah does right here in chapter 6 verse 9。
Nehemiah says, "They were all trying to frighten us, thinking their hands will get too weak for the work。
And it will not be completed. But here's what I prayed. Now strengthen my hands."。
There's this beautiful moment here because I love the honesty of Nehemiah。
He's like, "Man, we went through these oppositions and these oppositions were tough," he says。
"And each time that these oppositions came, we were weakened as a people."。
And the strategy of these oppositions, Nehemiah is saying, is that they were all designed to put fear in us。
So that we would think, mentally begin to think that we cannot in our own strength。
Achieve what God has asked us to do。
And it's almost like Nehemiah is saying, "You need to understand that you cannot achieve in your own strength。
What the Lord has called you to do."。
Like, let's just get that clear right here, Nehemiah is saying to his people。
You can't, you will never have enough wisdom, never have enough knowledge, never have enough strength。
Never have enough whatever, never have enough resources to do yourself what God has asked you to do。
That's not the way God works, He doesn't expect you to find all that resource and strength in yourself。
In fact, the starting point is to say, "I am a sinner in need of a Savior."。
"I am weak, but He is strong."。
"I am afraid, but perfect love can cast out my fear."。
It is to start in that place of saying, "This is who I am, I know who I am。
And as soon as I begin to arrogantly think that I can do this in my own strength, I will fail."。
But here's the thing, Nehemiah stands before his people and he says, "Honestly, I'm with you."。
"I felt scared, I felt weak throughout this whole process."。
But guess what? It's not about our own strength, it's about His equipment, His resource, His knowledge。
His beauty, His power, His grace, His strength。
So here's what I'm going to pray。
I'm going to pray that His strength would come, not my own。
His wisdom, not my wisdom。
His thoughts, higher than my thoughts。
But notice also what Nehemiah prays。
He first of all establishes the reality that he's weak and God's strong。
And he wants God's strength, but notice this, he says, "But in my hands, Lord."。
In other words, he does not pray, "God, strengthen the angels to wipe out the enemies."。
He understands that the greatest way to push back Satan。
Is to be strengthened for the work that God has called him to do。
The number one thing in spiritual warfare。
And yes, we need to pray, yes, we need to do all the things that we do in spiritual warfare。
The number one thing in spiritual warfare that pushes the enemy back。
Is the steadfastness of the body of Christ。
To not let go of the work that Christ has called them to。
That pushes the gates of hell back more than anything else。
And so Nehemiah says, "My hands."。
The very things that you've asked to do。
The moving of the stones bit by bit。
The establishing of the doors。
I've got to do that work。
You're not going to miraculously do that work for me。
But what you can do miraculously is put your strength inside of me。
That will change how I think, change how I know, change what I believe about myself。
And I will take with my hands and I will pick up those doors and I will finish。
I'm not going to sit down two laps before the end。
I will cross the finish line。
Not in my strength, but in yours。
Strengthen my hands。
As we finish this series。
That's my prayer for every single one of us。
God has put in your hands something that only He can accomplish。
But He's desiring to accomplish it through you。
Every single one of us。
In a season of personal transformation。
We will be opposed in that season。
But you do not need to fear。
You have the Spirit of God in you。
You have the Word of God before you。
You have the community of God around you。
Strengthen our hands Lord。
Strengthen our hands for everything that you've placed upon us。
And may it be for your glory。
I wonder whether you could stand with me。
I want to pray this。
And I'm going to invite the band to come。
We're going to take a moment。
If this is important to you。
If this is important to you。
If you're like I'm resonating with the series。
I've been resonating with today。
There's something in my spirit right now。
I've felt ridiculed。
Some of you in this room, you're feeling ridiculed already。
Some of you in this room, you are feeling。
You're in a season of being overwhelmed right now。
Some of you are very tempted。
To start compromising your vision。
Compromising your values。
Compromising what the Lord has asked you to do。
You've run a great race。
But that temptation to compromise is right on you right now。
Those three things。
Anyone in this room, I want to pray for you。
And I want to pray that in the months ahead。
As you continue to walk out a season of personal transformation。
In your life。
That what we've talked about today。
And the prayer we're praying now。
That you can pray every day。
Simple, honest, before the Lord。
God in my own strength, I cannot achieve today。
What you're asking me to achieve。
Would you strengthen my hand?。
If you would like that prayer here now。
I want to just invite you to open your hands before you。
From up top to the back。
From anyone who's watching this online right now。
Wherever you are。
Just open your hands before you。
We're a community of Christ。
The church where everything has been placed under Jesus' feet。
That all authority has been given to Him。
For the church, for you。
Who have been called as workers into the harvest field。
And so we stand before you Lord。
Yes, we feel weak at times。
Yes, we struggle with fear。
Yes, we don't know sometimes。
Whether we can do it。
Whether it's going to work out。
But Lord, we stand before you as people。
Who are called by a purpose。
People who are called by a vision。
People who are called by a God。
Who has everything under His feet。
And so as our hands are open before you now。
We say Lord, strengthen our hands。
Strengthen our hands。
Your strength in us。
Your strength in our vision。
Your strength in these values。
Your strength in the work that you've placed before me。
I want to just invite you to begin to pray that yourself。
Just begin to say Lord。
I ask you to strengthen my hands right now。
Some of you just need to confess right now。
I cannot do this on my own。
I'm feeling overwhelmed。
I'm feeling that ridicule around me。
I feel like I'm going to compromise。
Lord, would you strengthen me right now?。
Come on church, just begin to pray。
Begin to ask the Lord to strengthen your hands。
Begin for Him to strengthen。
The word says that those who wait upon the Lord。
That they will be renewed。
That their strength would be renewed。
So in this moment Lord, we stand before you as your church。
And we wait Lord。
We wait on your spirit and your power。
And your life and your love。
And we pray, would you strengthen our hands Lord?。
Would you strengthen us for the work that is before us Lord?。
And would it be for your glory and not our glory?。
Come on church, just begin to pray。
Just begin to bring your situation before Him。
Just begin to bring your life before Him。
Confess whatever needs to be confessed。
Ask Him to strengthen you。
Come on church, and we're going to sing together。
We're going to sing a declaration。
Of this strengthening to be upon us。
Come Lord Jesus。
[Singing in tongues]。
Come on。
Yes Lord。
[Music]。
Yes。
[Music]。
Yes Lord。
[Music]。
Come on church, keep praying。
[Music]。
We push back the enemy's plans。
[Music]。
Yes Lord。
[Music]。
Over every dream, over every purpose。
Over every family Lord。
Jesus。
[Music]。
Yes, come on。
[Music]。
Yes, come on。
[Music]。
He's going to touch you now。
[Music]。
Come on church。
[Music]。
Yes Lord。
[Music]。
Wait on。
[Music]。
Yes Lord。
[Music]。
Come on church。
[Music]。
Come on, declare it before Him。
He's going to renew your strength。
[Music]。
Yes Lord, come on。
[Music]。
Come on church。
[Music]。
Yes。
[Music]。
Come on, keep it up。
[Music]。
Yes。
[Music]。
Yes。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
Father, just as we go from here。
[Music]。
Father, I want to pray that like。
When we wake up tomorrow morning。
[Music]。
We would just pray that simple Nehemiah prayer。
Lord, strengthen my hands for the day ahead。
Allow me to be aware of every opportunity to share your heart and your life with the people around me。
Lord, would you protect me against the opposition that's likely to come。
As I live for the gospel, the true gospel in this world。
Father, we pray that you would renew the strength of your church globally in this hour。
We pray that you would come and strengthen weary pastors。
Strengthen weary Christians。
Who maybe are in situations that are hard。
We pray for the persecuted church。
For those that feel overwhelmed。
Where living for Christ is in a country where it's really difficult to do so。
Lord, as we look to the justice conference this coming weekend。
Father, we want to pray that you would renew the strength of your church for justice。
That we would look to the vulnerable and the marginalized and stand in the gap for those。
Lord, where we felt weary in our fight for justice。
Would you strengthen us, Lord。
Strengthen our hands, Lord。
And Father, we thank you for today。
And we thank you for the ministry of your Spirit and your Word。
And we pray you would go with us。
In Jesus' name。
We have a prayer team here at the Vine。
And I want to encourage you, maybe for some of you this is a really important day today。
I'm going to invite our prayer team just to be here at the front。
If you would like to receive prayer specifically from someone。
Maybe a personal prayer just to come alongside of what it is that you've been challenged with。
We want to make that available for you。
So in the upper house you can come on down for prayer。
Anyone here in the lower house you can come forward for prayer。
Otherwise, we love you guys。
God bless。
Justice conference weekend next weekend。
In the morning we got one of our speakers。
In the afternoon we got one of our other speakers。
Next Sunday it's going to be an amazing weekend。
We hope you can join us for the conference。
If not, we'll see you on Sunday。
And we look forward to what it is that the Lord has amongst us。
Bless you guys。
Amen。
[Music]。
[MUSIC]。
