Have a seat, have a seat.。
We're really excited.。
We're continuing our series here at the Vine on the Holy Spirit.。
If you've just joined us or maybe this is your first Sunday with us,。
we're doing a series right now on the Holy Spirit.。
We're approaching this series by looking at some of the dichotomies。
and the paradoxes that are found in the Spirit.。
Things like He's the one who brings conviction, but also comfort.。
Opens up Scripture to us, but also brings a fresh word.。
Comes when we're in a community like this, but also can come when we're on our own.。
This beautiful dichotomy and paradox of the work of the Spirit.。
Today we're continuing that with the idea of worship and how Scripture teaches us。
out of John chapter 4 that we are to worship in the Spirit and also in truth.。
We're going to be doing something a little bit different today, which is really exciting.。
We want to help you to hear from different voices in our church,。
rather than just those that are often the ones that are preaching.。
We want to make sure that we make space for different voices and different insight。
and different wisdom. I'm super excited about this.。
Pastor Promise is going to come and lead this time.。
Can we put our hands together for Promise and for everybody else。
that's going to be joining him on stage?。
Thank you. Thank you.。
Come on, you guys. Come on up. It's all right. Don't be afraid.。
Can't back out now. It's too late. This is being recorded.。
All right.。
We'll let the married couple share a mic. It'll be good.。
All right. Well, everyone, I want to introduce myself because you know who I am.。
But I just want to go ahead and introduce some of the people that we have with us,。
and then we're going to jump right in.。
So to my left we have Pastor Emma, which you are used to seeing her here.。
She's been on our team for a while leading worship.。
She is one of our worship pastors.。
To my right we have Juju, who leads worship in the PM.。
So normally if you're here at the 2 o'clock service, you would see her right here about this tall.。
It's quite nice. We love her dearly.。
To her right we have Mr. Smith.。
These two are married, by the way, so give it up for marriage, everyone.。
We love that. In God's house. Amen. Amen.。
Mr. Smith Akin is also joining us today to share.。
And then to his right, my favorite Indonesian man in the whole wide world.。
This is Pastor Jethro, and he's taken just for the record.。
But Pastor Jethro, everyone, let's give it up for him.。
Engaged man. Man to be married.。
Well, let me just tell you guys what we're hoping to do today.。
We would love to just have some conversations around what it means to worship in spirit and in truth.。
And just kind of sit in that space, understanding that in lots of our lives,。
that we can be pulled towards these dichotomous concepts.。
And actually we serve a God who is whole and complete.。
And so as we go through this, we're going to see just how he pulls us into this completion that he has.。
So as Pastor Andrew has shared, we started this series on the Holy Spirit.。
This week, we're looking at John 4, looking at Jesus and the Samaritan woman.。
And the concept and the big idea that we're going to be talking around is around worship.。
So in order for us to actually, I guess, have a common vocabulary and understanding of what worship is,。
I'm going to pass it to our worship pastor, Emanuela, one of our worship pastors,。
who will be giving us a definition on what worship is for this community.。
So go ahead, Emma.。
Yes. So hi. Hi, everyone.。
So I will caveat this by saying this is obviously not an exhaustive definition of what worship is.。
But for the purposes of this conversation and as a community, when we talk about worship,。
how we define it is an adequate and appropriate responding to and revealing of God the Father,。
Christ Jesus the Son, and the Spirit that lives within us.。
And so in short, we say revelation and response when we're talking.。
What is worship? Revelation and response.。
So the adequate and appropriate revealing of and responding to God the Father, Christ Jesus the Son,。
and the Spirit that remains with us.。
So that means worship takes place when God is revealed through the way that we live。
and when we also respond to that revelation of who God is.。
That means it can take place here in this room, just like we just all experienced,。
but also means that it's not simply limited to the worship service and the gathering.。
So today we're going to look at John chapter 4.。
Let me just give us a little bit of what's happening in John chapter 4.。
Jesus is in Samaria, and he's at this well.。
And this lady is there, and he's thirsty. He wants something to drink.。
And he asks her for a drink, and they have this discourse around water and how he's like--。
Jesus always does this when someone asks him a simple question.。
He always gives some profound answer that doesn't really answer the question, right?。
And so he wants water, and then all of a sudden he's the well that never runs dry,。
but he's the one asking for water, and she should be asking him for a drink.。
So it feels a little bit confusing, and then it goes into this whole idea of Jesus kind of calling out,。
"Oh, well, you have five husbands," which seems a little bit weird,。
just kind of out of the blue, Jesus calls her out on her life.。
And then it transitions into this idea of Jews worship on one mountain,。
but Samaritans worship on a different mountain.。
And it's in this space that we get the crux of today's talk around what worship truly looks like.。
So if you could turn your attention to the screen, I'm going to read this for us,。
starting at verse 19 of John chapter 4.。
It says this, "Sir," the woman said, "I can see that you're a prophet,"。
which is a good response, given that he's just told her all this stuff about her life.。
"Our ancestors worshipped on this mountain, but you Jews claim that the place where we must worship is in Jerusalem."。
"Woman," Jesus replied, "believe me, a time is coming when you will worship the Father neither on this mountain or in Jerusalem.。
You Samaritans worship what you do not know.。
We worship what we do know, for salvation is from the Jews.。
Yet a time is coming, and has now come, when true worshippers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth,。
for they are the kind of worshippers the Father seeks."。
Jesus, we thank you this morning for your word.。
And we just ask, Holy Spirit, that you would be with us as we converse around it, as we pull it apart,。
and as we see the insight that you have for us to live our lives.。
We know that your word is living and active, so would you speak to us now, in Jesus' name. Amen.。
Also, I'll just toss a question out.。
The idea of worshipping in spirit and in truth, you can't just do one over the other.。
It's a false dichotomy, but what makes it a false dichotomy in you guys' take?。
Why is it, why can you not worship in spirit or in truth? You have to do both.。
Because I think both reveals God, right?。
So if you understand that, talk about this truth, truth as we know it is the word of God.。
The word of God came in flesh into Jesus.。
And the Spirit, meaning the Holy Spirit that He has given us,。
the Holy Spirit will bring us to revelation of who Jesus is.。
And Jesus already said Himself that He does not do anything that He doesn't see the Father do.。
So in short, Jesus reveals the Father.。
So the Holy Spirit reveals the Jesus, which is the word, and the truth, and Jesus reveals the Father.。
So three in one.。
Trinity thing, right?。
So if we go back to that description or definition, right?。
If worship is revealing and responding, and we're worshipping God,。
then who we're revealing, like our revelation of Him has to be accurate.。
And because to the Christian faith, our God is three in one, our worship of that God,。
and so the revelation of His nature must align with who He actually is.。
And so in spirit and in truth encompasses, like in that passage is very interesting,。
it kind of highlights the Trinity without using the word Trinity, right?。
So it says, "The Father seeks worshippers that worship in the Spirit and in truth."。
And we know from John 14, 6 later on that Jesus says, "I am the way, the truth, and the life."。
So you see clearly in that kind of like outline of how worship is to take place,。
the picture of the full Trinity, and so to separate and choose between spirit or truth。
would be to separate the Godhead, which would then change--。
I don't know if it constitutes--it wouldn't constitute worship to the God we worship as believers.。
So I think it's impossible to break them up.。
It's impossible, but it's also dangerous, right?。
I think none of us go into it saying, "Okay, I'm going to just worship in spirit.。
I'm going to just worship in truth and ignore the others."。
But I think as humans, we are drawn to extremes sometimes,。
and if we're not careful, we can find ourselves oversaturated on the other side of the line.。
And so let's talk about the Old Testament.。
We see in the scriptures--not Old Testament, the Pharisees.。
I think someone mentioned the Pharisees.。
Akin, this is your point. Go ahead and talk about it. Tell us what happened.。
Yeah, it's something we discussed in the 9 a.m. 9.15 service.。
So yes, it's impossible to honestly worship God without doing so in spirit and in truth,。
but like Promise says, there is the danger of trying to gravitate towards one.。
And if we think of the Pharisees, this is very likely a very good example of a body of people。
who likely gravitated more towards the Word and almost forgot entirely about the spirit aspect of it.。
So they spent so much time reading the Word, they could actually memorize--。
if they had memorized it, they could recite it verbatim.。
But Jesus was walking amongst them and they couldn't actually recognize Him。
because they were so much focused on the Word.。
And I think that is a danger.。
That's something that we definitely want to do our best to actually ensure that does not happen with our lives.。
Because like Promise said, it can be a slippery slope.。
We can very easily sort of just gravitate towards one.。
And I mean, I don't think any one of us here wants to emulate the Pharisees.。
We saw a lot of the mistakes that they made.。
So good thing to keep in mind and keep them as an example.。
Jesus is actually kind of a little harsh to them in some extent.。
Like when you see the Pharisees living their lives, right?。
Like they know all the laws, like I said.。
They could pray the best. They were fasting.。
They were doing all the things. They looked the part.。
But the way that Jesus would respond to them, He would call them whitewashed tombs, empty on the inside.。
Their spirits were not actually connecting with Him.。
He would also say that these people worship me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me.。
So it really does seem that if we omit the spirit, we actually miss on what it looks like to biblically worship God.。
Yeah.。
I think Jethro made a really good point earlier, and you can expand on this,。
but about how if we decide to lean, so this is on the dangers of leaning more truth,。
like I'm going to worship in truth.。
And that's a fair response, seeing people worship God in however way they want, which we'll get to.。
But one of the dangers of that becomes self-righteousness,。
because you start to believe that your worship is acceptable because you have dotted all of the I's and crossed all the T's,。
which we know is not true, right?。
Scripture is like your righteousness, at most righteous, is filthy rags before me.。
So like the way that your worship is accepted is never because of how great you've done.。
The Pharisees, again, were people, I had a friend who used to say the Pharisees knew the word and the truth so well。
that if you rolled up a scroll and you shot through it and they unrolled it, they could tell you what letter.。
Like literally, was that a G that was removed?。
It's an analogy for how well they knew the scripture that they can really recite every iota of it.。
But then that kind of leads to that difficult place where you're leaning on yourself,。
which is kind of hard because we're not the most consistent people.。
So then if our hope for an acceptable worship is our goodness and our ability to maintain God's level of standards,。
then we wouldn't have an acceptable worship for very long, if ever.。
I know I wouldn't, I don't know about you guys. Maybe you guys are deeper.。
But as for me, I already know I'm grateful for the Holy Spirit because otherwise there's no way.。
The truth is a person. And I think one of the things that we didn't talk on earlier,。
but I think is interesting to state is if Jesus is the truth and truth is a person,。
then you kind of have to get to know the truth.。
Right. Can you maybe, Jet, what does that, when you think about the idea of we have to get to know Jesus,。
what does that mean? What does that look like?。
Well, Jesus, this is the next point, but Jesus comes to, he says, comes to fulfill the law.。
He's not come to abolish the law. So, and he's given the word is the word of God is Jesus.。
So getting to know Jesus is also getting to know what he's spoken through the Bible and knowing,。
knowing what he has said and we can understand his character more.。
And so that we know the person, right? If you, if you want to know a person,。
you don't just observe them from afar. You get to know them. You ask questions and all that.。
Just to jump in on that in terms of, you know, what, what you just said.。
I think it's very possible to, you know, miss out on exactly what Jesus was looking to do,。
because there were times when what Jesus did seem to contradict the law,。
even though, like you said, he did not come to abolish the law.。
So laws of like Sabbath and the like, you could sort of mistake that and think that Jesus came to do something otherwise.。
But he makes it clear that that is not the case. So it's more about the actual relationship and the actual spirit of the law,。
which is why it's important to take both the word and the spirit and not, you know, individually.。
And I think I don't think the Pharisees recognized it, but I think if they were to zoom out and realize,。
I think the example of like the man who was healed on the Sabbath, like they want to persecute Jesus。
because he healed someone on the Sabbath because they were so upset.。
They knew the truth, but they missed the spirit of who God was and God's heart for people。
that they would then try and kill someone who helped somebody because they did it on the wrong day.。
Like, can we talk about missing the big picture altogether?。
And I think that says something to us that God isn't just calling you to like do all the rules。
and make sure you're living exactly perfectly right. There is a relationship.。
And that's why the spirit matters so much in this worship.。
Yeah. So that's on what are some of the dangers of leaning too much, right?。
When we say spirit and truth and leaning on truth.。
Jules, what do you think are some of the pitfalls of leaning,。
swinging into the other end of the pendulum, where you're like, just by the spirit, no need for truth.。
Well, I grew up in a Pentecostal church. So yeah, it's all, it's all spirit, right?。
So like, it's very concentrated on like, someone can be rolling on the floor,。
but then if there's really no truth to it, because truth is also the whole being, right?。
Like your heart. Is it really showing the heart of God?。
Then is it really worship that you're rolling on the floor? You're like being slain?。
Yeah. Sorry to surprise everyone. I didn't want to scare anyone, but that's what I grew up with.。
Yeah. So that can be the danger of that.。
And in this age, I think specifically 2025, like if worship is only in the spirit, I mean,。
we've heard the phrase my truth so many times, right?。
Everybody has their own truth, but there's only one real truth, right?。
There's only Jesus is the truth. So your truth and their truth and his truth and her truth,。
I think really having the concept of marrying the spirit with the truth, right?。
The truth being Jesus is super important.。
Yeah. I think something that can be hard to grasp in this day and age is that God is king, like of all things, right?。
He is God. So like he answers to no one.。
OK. And that and because he is God and he's also a father and all those things, but he is God.。
Our father is God. Right. So like there is that duality to like who he is.。
Completeness. That means he, the recipient of our worship, gets to dictate the method of our worship.。
Right. The way in any loving relationship, you know, for those who are married or like you have siblings or friends,。
you know, their preferences and what they don't like. Right.。
If your spouse's love language is quality time, buying them the latest like, I don't know, Gucci, whatever,。
is not going to matter if what they require of you is time. Right.。
So the same goes with God in this relationship with him.。
He dictates how we worship and we learn what he dictates through his word, through the truth. Right.。
So the spirit gives us that affection for God, the desire to worship him.。
But even with good intentions, unless we learn what he wants, it becomes the intentions become wasted. Right.。
All the money a husband could spend on like the latest whatever. And the wife is like, but I asked you to take out the trash.。
And it was a lot cheaper, would have been a lot cheaper to do that. Like it's the same with God.。
I'm reminded of this is this guy's server sound very intense. But there's a story of Uzzah and scripture.。
Uzzah is this man where there is way back in the Old Testament and there's like the children of Israel are at war with the Philistines.。
So the Philistines take the Ark of the Lord. At the time, the Ark of God was symbolic of the presence of God.。
And they thought the presence of God was like Pastor Andrew talked about in the introduction, that it was an energy.。
So like whoever has the energy has the wind. That's not how it works.。
So they stole the Ark thinking the energy was going to be in their favor.。
And then God started smiting them and they all started dying. So they kept playing.。
They started playing hot potato with the Ark and they're like, send it to the next town.。
And like whatever city you don't like, you know, we're shipping it to Singapore, whatever.。
Shots at Singapore. Shots at Singapore. We love you Singapore.。
Easy target. We do love you. But yeah, so sorry.。
So they're playing hot potato with the Ark of God.。
OK, and eventually it lands in the house of an Israelite. They finally get it.。
They send it to one of the people of God and their people stop dying. Right.。
The thing is, though, the Philistines are not the people of God, so they don't have a relationship with God.。
They don't know how God dictates to be worshipped. So they put God, they carry the Ark the way that they would carry their God.。
They carry it in an Ark on top of oxen with like golden idols and stuff.。
And they bring it to the Israelites house because that Israelite wasn't a priest.。
And they weren't they didn't really bother to like find out.。
They just the Ark of God just stayed that way in their house. Right.。
So fast forward, I don't know how many years later, when King David becomes king,。
one of the first thing he wants to do is restore the presence of God symbolically, the Ark of God to the center of worship in Israel.。
So he goes, he inquires. They tell him, oh, it's at that guy's house.。
They go to that guy house to pick up the Ark. Right.。
But remember, they're carrying the Ark the way the Philistines carry their God.。
God in Deuteronomy and other parts had been specific about how his presence was supposed to be carried.。
It had to be carried on people, which is a precursor to the fact that we would become his temple. Right.。
So people had to carry his presence. It couldn't be animals.。
It couldn't be whatever else. Like you couldn't decide how you wanted to carry his presence.。
You had to carry it his way. But they didn't know that.。
So they pick up the Ark and they're just excited because they're like, oh, yeah, the presence of God is back, which is spirit.。
Like good intentions, excited. Right.。
And I'm sure the spirit of God led that decision that if we're going to be a kingdom after God, we ought to centralize his presence.。
But they didn't. They didn't do the work of finding out. OK, but truthfully, how does God want to be worshipped?。
So they're carrying this Ark the way the Philistines would carry the Ark.。
They're going, they're going, they're going. And then they find there's like a hole in the ground.。
The oxen, the animals who are carrying the Ark trip and the Ark of God, which was on these animals, start to tip over.。
Right. And so you can imagine my panic. Oh, my God, this is the presence of God. We can't let it fall.。
This guy, Uzzah, is like, no. And he touches the Ark to try to like lean it right and drops dead.。
Go find it. It's in your Bibles. I can give you the coordinates later.。
He touches it and it drops dead. And King David is so distraught. Right.。
So he stops the whole we're going to bring the presence of God. He's like, shoo, what is this? Like, I don't want to die.。
And he's and the scripture says he's actually angry at God. He's like, how? Why would you do that?。
Like we're bringing your presence back. What? Shouldn't you be happy?。
But remember, God is king. Right. So we can't carry his presence, even when it's his idea for us to centralize it.。
We can't do it our way. We have to do it his way. I think this is where the strength of the truth comes in.。
Right. So in spirit, like with the right intentions, with the right passion and the movement.。
But we have to do the work of discovering through his word. How do you actually want us to worship you?。
And the spirit like highlights, you know, what to focus on in every instance.。
But that's that's where the danger could come in. Like good intentions, going straight into the presence of God, not being aware.。
Oh, I'm walking into the presence of someone who's holy, who wants us to be in his presence.。
So, you know, it's it ends happily where I mean, us are still dead, but it ends.。
They go away. David's upset. He goes and finds out. And then they're like, oh, we're not supposed to carry the presence of God on animals.。
Right. And they don't know that it's because in the future, God's presence will live on people.。
So we need to know that. And it needs to be consistent. Right. They learn that.。
And they carry the presence of God properly. And it's a proper party. Right. His presence comes in and dwells like he wants to.。
But it's just we can't do it our way. Deuteronomy gives a good definition of it.。
Deuteronomy 12, 4, he goes, you must not worship the Lord, your God, in their way.。
But you are to seek the place that the Lord will choose from among your tribes.。
God is going to define what worship looks like. And that's what we get here in the New Testament passage in John 4, that true worshipers.。
Like, what does God require for worship to look like? It's this combination of our worship being in spirit and in truth.。
There's a quote from a theologian I want to read to us because I think it really helps us frame it well.。
It says this truth without emotion produces dead orthodoxy and a church full of artificial admirers.。
On the other hand, emotion without truth produces empty frenzy and cultivates shallow people who refuse the discipline of rigorous thought.。
But true worship comes from people who are deeply emotional, who love deep and sound doctrine.。
Strong affections for God rooted in truth are the bone and marrow of biblical worship.。
Our worship must be this coming together, this combination led by his spirit to reveal the truth of who Jesus is.。
And it's a consistent cycle that we then get a chance to reveal and respond to as well.。
I heard earlier that Juju and Emma were hanging out without me and talking about Bible things without me.。
Emma snitched on you, by the way.。
She said that you guys came up with a really cool definition, kind of like summarizing the whole idea of truth and worship and spirit and Jesus and all those things together.。
So maybe you can read it for us so we can all kind of sit with it.。
You want my phone? There you go.。
True worship of God must be led by the spirit and must arrive at a revelation of the person of Christ.。
Just this morning I was kind of like I was praying for today and I was like, oh God, I really I don't want to do it.。
I don't want to do it anymore.。
Like I English is not my first language.。
Like I don't speak as eloquently as my husband.。
But then the Lord said, this is how I want to be worshiped.。
Right. Like today it looks different.。
Like, yeah, last Sunday, yeah, you're worshiping here on the stage with music and with sound.。
But today I want to be worshiped this way.。
And the spirit, you know, the spirit allows us and helps us to things that we can't even do.。
Like true worship. You can never really worship God because it's impossible.。
Because God, like the only way is for the spirit to reveal to you.。
Without the spirit, you cannot. Yeah.。
I think, no, no, you're completely right.。
Like I think it is that combination.。
Like we are dependent on the spirit to lead us and guide us into that space.。
There was something really interesting when we kind of discussed this earlier around the biblical response.。
Emma calls it step zero.。
But Akin, you were actually pulling together just the overall narrative of John 4.。
Looking at how, you know, it's not disconnected.。
We don't just randomly hear about the spirit.。
But actually what Jesus does with this woman kind of sets up this idea of sacrifice and repentance.。
Right. So how would you kind of explain that for us all to understand?。
Yeah. I don't think we read through the entire passage.。
But at least prior to the bits that we read, we see Jesus call out this lady's sin.。
So he mentioned how she has had five husbands.。
And the person she's with now is actually not her husband.。
So Jesus does something very interesting where I guess it's easy for us as people to sort of gloss over sin.。
And maybe not really call it out, not really speak to it.。
But sin can be seen as sort of the offshoot of something that's wrong within us.。
That could very easily be another idol, another thing that we end up worshipping other than God.。
Which then leads us to express it in different sins.。
So I mean I won't claim to know exactly what was on the lady's mind.。
But it's very likely that she had bought into this lie, this idea that, you know, relationships, partners,。
would be the way that she can, you know, feel whole and, you know, be whatever she thinks she's meant to be.。
But then that just makes it hard for her to actually worship God,。
because she's actually worshipping something else within her heart that she may or may not know.。
So it's really cool how Jesus actually calls this out and sets, and actually flashes this out,。
before the discussion of worship begins.。
Because it's hard to worship if you don't actually, you know, you're not worshipping him.。
You don't want to worship something else within your heart.。
You're going to say something, Emma?。
I agree.。
So I was reminded of what it was in Ezra, when they came back from Babylon.。
And they were trying to rebuild the temple.。
And then the first thing that they built, they didn't build the outside of the temple.。
What they first built was the altar itself.。
Because in the altar, that's where the sacrifices made,。
and the slaughter of all the nasty things that like avoids us from connecting to God,。
is taken away, right?。
Why do we not have the Spirit?。
It's because the sin lives within us.。
Well, in the past.。
But now we have the Holy Spirit, right?。
And the Spirit, and our spirit, matches together, right?。
And then we get to worship the Lord.。
I think it's neat that when you look at what your husband was saying around approaching Jesus,。
it seems like there's a clarity that happens.。
And in that clarity of coming close to Jesus, the woman sees herself for who she truly is.。
And it's not like Jesus is dismissing her.。
I think it's good to make clear that even though he calls out the sin, he doesn't dismiss her, right?。
She's overjoyed. He calls out her sin.。
She's like, "I see clearly. Clearly, sir, you are a prophet."。
All of a sudden, everything kind of makes sense.。
Emma, you had a whole thing on, like, was it Isaiah and what happens in the present?。
I was going to say, so the reason when we were discussing, I called repentance step zero,。
is because I feel like it's a thing that often we're scared of.。
It sounds really like, "Oh no, all the bad things I've ever done are going to be revealed."。
But actually, it's the first step. It's Jesus coming close, right?。
So conviction, the conviction of the Spirit, is equivalent to lighting.。
When you turn on a light to a room that's been dark,。
obviously you're going to start to notice things in the room that are out of place。
better than you would if it was dark, right?。
So if as people, we started to be a little bit less afraid of the concept of repentance and conviction,。
but noticing that God's nearness, because he is light and in him no darkness dwells,。
his nearness will expose in us things that aren't to set them right.。
That's his intention, right?。
So we see it in Isaiah 6, we see it in Luke 5, where Isaiah sees the Lord.。
It says, "On the day King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord."。
And his first response after he sees the Lord, he sees God clearly, then he sees himself.。
And he's like, "Whoa, I'm a man of unclean lips, and I'm going to die."。
And then the next verse is God sending an angel to actually purify him.。
And then he can hear, and then there's prophecy, and then there's the rest of the 60 chapters of the book of Isaiah, right?。
Same, when Luke talks about how Peter meets Jesus, he meets Jesus,。
and once he notices and recognizes, "Oh, this is God," then he sees himself, and he's like, "Oh, get away from me.。
I'm not clean," right?。
Our tendencies, it's to go, "If I realize I'm not actually as good as I was like, I thought I was, oh no."。
And God is saying, "No, no, I'm coming near. That's why you noticed this, but I want you closer."。
"I'm revealing this so that you can have freedom. Now you know that I know. I know that you know that I know."。
And now you can worship me without the baggage in between us.。
Because often a hindrance to worship is this idea that, "Oh, if only he finds out what I've done,"。
or, "Surely I can't be good enough."。
And it's like, it's okay. He sees you fully.。
And so allowing him, as he convicts us, as we talked about a few weeks ago,。
that leads to his comfort, that leads to his nearness, that allows us freedom to actually know,。
"Oh yeah, he knows me." That's what the woman ends up telling them at the end, right?。
"Let me tell you about a man who knows everything I've done," right?。
And there's still no distance. There is still no rejection.。
And this turns into an element of worship, right?。
And so the definition that we gave of worship being revelation and response, we're going to do it backwards this time.。
That concept takes place again, not just in the Sunday gathering, but also outside of Sunday.。
And so let's start with what happens outside of a Sunday.。
One of the reasons I had Akin join this panel was because he's the one person who, of the five of us,。
is not on the worship team, doesn't play any instruments to best of my—is he a good singer?。
Okay, okay, okay. So worship for him might look—it'll look like how it is for us, right?。
Like not all of us are on the stage, but you know, Monday to Saturday are still opportunities for us to worship.。
So what does worship in a Monday to Saturday kind of situation look like for you?。
I really appreciate the definition that Emma gave in terms of what worship is,。
because that is a pre-course, so that helps us understand that it's not just what we do on Sundays here.。
You know, we can respond to God, we can get revelations from God throughout the entire week.。
So yeah, like Thomas said, I'm not on the worship team. You probably don't want me to be on the worship team.。
I've been in sales and business development for the past 10 or so years of my life.。
And so yeah, most of what—most of the opportunities that I get to actually, you know, worship,。
they fall outside of this, unlike, you know, the rest of them who work with the church.。
I think one of the things that we hinted at earlier on is one of the things that's very important。
if you want to worship God the right way, even outside of here.。
So being able to just look at ourselves, like Emma said, that call to, you know, repentance, trying to—。
there's no one who is perfect. Everyone has one or two things that they are going through,。
that they are struggling with, and we don't want this to hinder us from being able to worship God.。
So I think that's—it could be challenging, it could be difficult to, you know,。
look at the not-so-good-looking parts within ourselves, but I think that's a very crucial part.。
That's a very crucial aspect of it. So that, yes, we're able to see ourselves in relation to God,。
so we have a better idea of how we should actually respond to God.。
Being able to check your heart, for me to be able to check my heart,。
it helps me sort of figure out why I'm doing what I am doing,。
because two people can do the same things for different reasons,。
and God will judge them very differently because he looks at the heart.。
So like I mentioned, I'm in sales. One of the things that you would hear said if you're in sales。
is that the value ascribed to you is the money that you're able to make.。
That can be very pervasive, not only in sales, but in Hong Kong in general.。
There's this idea that, you know, we are judged based on our financial value,。
and it's very real in my industry because that is my job. That's exactly what I'm there to do.。
So me waking up in the morning, me going off to work, am I doing that because I've fallen into this lie。
where the only value that I have is because of the money that I'm able to make?。
Because in that case, I am not worshipping God. There's no truth to that.。
The Holy Spirit will not lead me to that. I can do the exact same thing,。
but understand that I'm doing it because it's an opportunity for me to worship God.。
It's an opportunity for me to use the talents and the skills that he has given me。
in a way that he actually wants me to. It is a blessing from God that, you know,。
yes, he has helped me speak every once in a while, but there's a story,。
there's a parable of the talents where, you know, God gives, the master gives talents to different people。
and he wants them to use it. He doesn't want them to just bury it within the sand.。
So, yeah, being able to do that, that's a much better, yeah, going at it from that perspective。
is what I'm trying to say, much more easier to worship God as opposed to coming from a fearful。
or, you know, false value perspective.。
Or you're going to lose your job kind of perspective, right?。
So I think really holding that place of like the response in that situation is I'm responding to the call of God.。
I'm stewarding the resources that God has given me in a way that would make him proud.。
I'm maximizing my talents. I maximize my potential, not just for me,。
not because I'm afraid to get laid off, but because this is what God has given me。
and it's a call of excellence in that. It was really fun. Like for me, a lot of times my worship is,。
if I'm leading worship, which is like once every six months, or if I'm on stage preaching,。
that could be a part of my worship. But we had an interesting encounter recently.。
Allison and I have been working with this guy who is dealing with, you know, he's moved here,。
kind of going to be a refugee and asylum seeker, kind of seeking status from some type of bad situation。
where he came from. And we're sitting with him and we don't have the answers.。
Like this is way above, like we're pastors, we can pray, but we don't know how to like solve all these issues, right?。
And I just remember like finding my heart, like at first I was like a bit cold, if I'm being honest.。
I repented afterwards, but I was a bit cold because I was like, how do I know if your story is real?。
And how do I, we don't have all this money to give away, da, da, da, da, da.。
But as I sat there and I listened and I let God start to soften my heart, my heart changed a bit.。
And I recognized that by just spending time in the conversation, by engaging with him,。
even though I don't know him from anywhere, by listening, by finding ways,。
by finding unorthodox ways that we could help work with this guy.。
It was funny, I was telling one of you, I was like, I got the same chill bumps that you get in worship.。
Like I realized it was my worship for that day.。
Like that encounter, responding and bringing God's truth to that person。
and making time like Jesus would for them was my act of worship.。
And so worship does take place outside of the auditorium, outside of Sundays.。
But on Sundays, Jethro and Emma, I'd love to hear from you guys on how do you kind of balance this spirit and truth thing。
if we're congregation members sitting here getting ready to worship and sing songs,。
how do you kind of take spirit and truth into a worship setting musically?。
Well, one of the thoughts I had of reading this passage initially was when Jesus said,。
"In truth," was also that in honesty and in integrity.。
And that's what God always speaks to me about, where if I come to worship,。
am I pretending to be someone else? Am I pretending to be perfect so that God accepts me?。
Or am I coming with all my pain and my struggle and my questions,。
and I still come to worship on a Sunday because that's what God asked me to do,。
and I still lift my hands because that's what the Bible asked me to do,。
not because I'm feeling like it or I want to be cool and whatever.。
So yeah, one worship leader said, "When we're suffering on earth,。
that is an opportunity for us to give a sacrifice of praise。
because when we're in heaven, we don't have suffering."。
So in your suffering, in our suffering, when we come to worship him,。
do it out of a place of faith and not out of a place of feeling like it.。
What about for you when you come into this space?。
I mean, you lead worship like every single week, literally every week.。
You weren't supposed to lead the worship, but I was supposed to lead the worship.。
Okay, her birthday's next week, so she's taking some time off.。
But yeah, when you come into this space for worship,。
how do you wrestle with spirit and truth?。
Is it always easy to do both? Is there ever a tension?。
It's definitely not easy.。
I think unless you were like--if this were a performance,。
then you could kind of shut off real life.。
But I'm reminded of the psalm that says, "Bless the Lord, O my soul,。
and all that is within me."。
And so that's how I come, with all that is within me,。
and I bring it before him, and I don't leave the crappy parts at the door.。
I bring it in.。
I said, "God, here are my questions, here are my doubts,。
and here are the struggles I have with health,。
here are the struggles I have with family.。
But you are faithful." That's true.。
Even if the facts of my life right now are rising against the knowledge of that,。
what will stand the test of time and eternity is who you say you are.。
So then it's like--I mean, I don't always feel like it,。
so sometimes I'm telling myself.。
I repeat things a lot, and you might think, "Oh, she's deep."。
I'm telling myself, "He is good. He is faithful."。
Until my feelings catch up.。
Sometimes it takes a minute.。
Sometimes, if you've had a good week, your feelings are way ahead,。
and you got it like, "Oh, okay."。
But more often than not, it's just being obedient to the call to praise the Lord.。
And I think it's one of the reasons I love the gathering of God's people,。
because when I don't have the strength, I come into the community of faith,。
and I'm honest with the community of faith.。
I'm like, "I'm not doing well. I haven't slept."。
And there have been so many Sundays where we're really held by the grace of God。
and the presence of people in the community that will check in。
and we'll all just literally be interceding for one another.。
Everybody's falling apart.。
But God is faithful. God is faithful.。
And I think that's real. That's real life, right?。
You're not always like, "Woohoo, I feel it,"。
but reminding, training myself to recite truth so that when I don't, which is a lot,。
my confession is still truth until I remember, like, "Oh, right.。
So even when I don't feel it, you are good."。
I mean, that's a good line. I think we wrote that one time.。
That's the perfect place to land, guys.。
Thank you for being a part of this.。
As the worship team gets back up on stage,。
I'm just going to pray for us.。
But thank you, Jew, and thank you, Akin, for joining us in this space.。
[applause]。
Well, Church, if you'll go ahead and stand with me,。
we're going to spend some time stepping back into this space of revelation and response.。
And, you know, I don't know where you are today, where you are this morning.。
Maybe it is hard for you.。
Maybe, like Emma said, maybe the facts of life are telling a different story.。
But when we worship in truth and we worship the truth, we know that He is good,。
that He is faithful.。
And even if we don't see it yet, He remains true.。
And we worship not just with our words, not just with what we know,。
but we allow the spirit that dwells within us to speak to our spirits,。
to encourage our spirits, to speak truth to our spirits.。
There's been so many times that a certain lyric in a song。
helps me actually get to the place of worshiping God with my whole heart.。
And so, Father, we come before you this morning, and we thank you that you've given us both.。
That you've given us the truth in Jesus.。
We've given us the truth in your Word revealed.。
You've also given us your spirit, a guide, a comfort,。
someone that goes ahead of us, someone that leads us to truth,。
that brings things back to memory.。
So as we sit in this moment, Holy Spirit, would you begin to lead us to your truth?。
Would you begin to push against the lies, push against the false identities that are around,。
against anything that would separate us from being able to see you clearly。
and know that your love and that your mercies are abounding,。
that you are good and that you are faithful and you are kind.。
So we respond to you now in spirit to your truth.。
In Jesus name we pray, Amen.。
(upbeat music)。
