I'm one of the pastors here at the Vine.。
If you're relatively new to the Vine, we're so glad that you're here.。
Welcome to us.。
This is the week that Coldplay is in Hong Kong.。
Everybody's excited.。
Some of you have tickets in this room.。
Well done.。
Some of you do not.。
Well done.。
Whether you're going to see Coldplay or not, the Lord is here.。
Amen.。
I've been sharing with you a number of times that one of the great highlights of walking。
the Camino de Santiago in the north of Spain, which is an 800 kilometer journey from south。
of France over to the west coast of Spain.。
One of the great highlights I've been sharing with you is this idea that you get to visit。
these amazing cathedrals and these amazing churches as you're going on that pilgrimage。
and journey.。
There are some spectacular cathedrals on the way of the Camino, particularly when you get。
to cities, major cities like Pamplona and Burgos and Leon and of course, Santiago de。
Compostela itself at the end.。
The cathedrals in those cities are some of the most beautiful and sacred in the world.。
And literally, there were a couple of times where I'd walked into those cathedrals and。
it was like such a moment.。
When you think about for hundreds, thousands of years, people have gathered in those buildings。
to worship Jesus, just that reverence that comes and I was literally left breathless。
a number of times.。
But also along the way on the Camino, it's not just in the major cities where you get。
this incredible sense of these cathedrals, even in some of the smaller towns that you。
walk through over the 30, 40 days that you're walking, you see great churches, beautiful。
local village churches.。
You walk in there and those beautiful wooden pews, maybe it seats like 100 people, maybe。
80 to 100 people, beautiful paintings and iconography on the walls, a cross, candles。
lit everywhere.。
So you'd walk into some of these smaller churches but they were equally beautiful, equally profound,。
equally sacred.。
And then there was like a third category of church on the walk.。
And that was when you're in like the really rural places, a little bit off the beaten。
path where the path of the Camino takes you, maybe into some farmland or somewhere like。
that and you come across these older churches and most of these are like they don't even。
operate anymore.。
They're just old church buildings.。
They're kind of run down looking.。
Maybe there's holes in the roof and maybe no one's kind of visited it for quite some。
time.。
And I actually was drawn to these kinds of churches.。
I loved to find the super rural, super run down, super broken down churches because I。
would often go into there and put my backpack down and spend some time in prayer and I'd。
be the only person there.。
And it'd be a place of complete solitude where no one else is there.。
And the Camino is famous for being quite social and there's lots going on as you walk the。
800 kilometers.。
And so those moments were precious to me where I would go into these broken down churches。
and just spend time with Jesus there.。
Well about six or seven days before the end of the walk, so right towards the end of it,。
I was cresting up a hill one day on my own as I was walking and I noticed one of these。
run down little kind of old parish churches just sitting on the crest of this hill behind。
an old stone wall.。
It looked pretty run down, it looked pretty derelict.。
I took a photo of it.。
I want to show you the photo of it.。
There it is nestled in these trees on the top of this hill kind of out the way.。
And there was that stone wall you can kind of see at the bottom of the photo there.。
And I decided I wanted to go in and spend time there.。
So I put my backpack down and I wasn't exactly sure.。
It wasn't obvious how to get around the stone wall.。
So I scrambled up the stone wall, walked in and then went through the door at the front。
there and walked into this chapel.。
And I was surprised by what I found in there.。
It was unlike any other church that I'd visited on the whole walk.。
It was completely barren on the inside.。
There was nothing, no paintings, no pews, no iconography.。
I took a photo of the inside.。
This is what it looked like.。
It was just this run-down stone-based kind of maybe there was some life here at some。
point.。
Now it's just kind of like this.。
You could tell that it had been open to the elements for a while and there was mold and。
stuff everywhere.。
It was super cold and dingy.。
I would have thought it was completely abandoned except for at the front there, you might be。
able to see in the photo, there was a little cross at the front behind the stone precipice.。
And there was a few burnt down candles there.。
They weren't currently lit.。
You could tell that somebody had been there in the reasonably recent time and had burnt。
some candles there.。
And so this was it.。
And it was a little bit creepy, if I'm perfectly honest.。
It was just a little bit like, "Oh gosh, this is kind of not too comfortable."。
So I spent about, I don't know, five minutes there just praying.。
And then I kind of left, picked up my backpack, started walking again.。
And I walked about another five kilometers.。
And by then I was kind of done with the day.。
I'd gotten to the village that I was going to settle in on that day.。
And I decided, I didn't do this every night, but I decided for this night, there was quite。
a famous church in this town that I was settling in.。
And the monks there offered for pilgrims for a very low price, I think it was about three。
or four euro, it wasn't very much at all, for a donation, you could sleep on the church。
floor.。
And I thought this would be great.。
I want to sleep on the church floor, kind of do it pretty rustic style.。
And as part of the donation that you make, you were then invited to a meal, an evening。
meal that the monks made for you, which I thought was going to be fun too.。
So I donated and I put out my kind of mat on the floor and the evening came and we sat。
down for this amazing meal that these monks made.。
And I was sitting next to this man and I got chatting with him.。
And it turns out that he was the priest.。
He was a local priest and he was the priest of the parish of that area.。
And I didn't tell him I was a pastor, but I thought this is fascinating.。
I'm talking to this priest who kind of oversees some churches in the area.。
And then I began to tell him about this church that I'd kind of visited earlier in the day。
and how I'd enjoyed it, but it was like abandoned and kind of creepy.。
And I got my phone out and I showed him these two photos and he looked at it and his face。
like lit up.。
He's like, "Oh, that's my church."。
I said, "What?"。
He's like, "That's my church."。
He's like, "I'm the parish, a priest of that church."。
I'm like, "Really, this one?。
This is your church?"。
I'm like, "This abandoned, run down looking church.。
You're doing a really bad job of looking after your church.。
I just want to..."。
I didn't say that.。
Don't worry.。
I'm not going to say that.。
And his face lit up and he's like, "Yeah, that's my church."。
And he was like, "I prepare a sermon every Sunday."。
And he said, "I walk with my dog the five kilometers to the church from where we are。
now."。
And he's like, and sometimes he's like, "Some Sundays revival comes and five people show。
up."。
And he kind of like, his face was like, "Five people come."。
And then he says, "But most of the time it's just me and my dog.。
And on some Sundays my dog isn't even bothered to come.。
And it's literally just me," he said.。
And he's like, "I prepare a sermon every Sunday and I go there and if no one shows up, then。
I just pray.。
And if one person shows up, then I give my sermon and I do the priestly ritual and rites。
and then we pray together."。
He's like, "But most of the time no one shows up and I'm just there and I pray."。
And I thought to myself, I said to him, I said, "How long have you been serving this。
church?"。
And this was his honest response.。
He said, "Oh, not very long, just about 38 years."。
Thirty-eight years.。
Now I'm sure there had been seasons at some point for this man where maybe there was a。
little bit more activity in this church, but for whatever reason over the years, it had。
turned into this.。
A situation where he prepares a sermon each week, shows up and has no idea if anyone is。
actually going to show up.。
Well, our conversation kind of changed and went in different directions and we talked。
about other things.。
But I remember sleeping that night on the stone floor of this church thinking to myself。
this, "What a waste.。
What a waste.。
Like this guy's got gifts and he seemed like a really nice guy.。
He had a great sense of humor.。
I'm sure he's a good preacher, has a heart for people and a heart for Jesus.。
What a waste."。
I went to bed that night just going like, "This is kind of weird."。
I remember saying to myself, "I'm going to pray for this man.。
I'm going to pray that revival breaks out and more than five people come to his church."。
Like that would be the right thing to do, to pray for him.。
So the next morning we pack up our stuff and the monks say goodbye and I say goodbye to。
the priest.。
And I start to walk for my next day's walk on the Camino and I fell into prayer as I。
was doing each day.。
And as I fell into prayer, I immediately thought of this priest and my promise to pray.。
And so I begin to pray for him.。
And as soon as I begin to pray for him, have you ever had one of those moments where God。
shows up when you pray?。
Anyone had that?。
Like three people.。
Great.。
Tip, when you pray, God shows up.。
So I'm praying, God shows up, and it's like one of those moments where he's like, he slaps。
you because he's got something to tell you off about, something to challenge you with.。
So I get one of these, like, "Come on, Andrew."。
And he starts to speak to me and convict me.。
I get my phone out and I'm sheepishly journaling kind of what he says to me.。
I want to read you what he said to me.。
I wrote it down on my phone.。
He said, "Andrew, you need to redefine what you think is successful in ministry and what。
is not.。
Your attitude is wrong and you're thinking flawed.。
I have not called you to be successful.。
I've called you to be faithful.。
And last night, I put beside you one of my favorite examples of this kind of success。
in my kingdom.。
You were fortunate to be in his presence."。
I honestly thought he was fortunate to be in my presence.。
That's my honest confession because I run a nice church where we have lots of people。
that come on a Sunday.。
And this guy, and I thought maybe I could give him some tips and tricks on how to grow。
your church.。
But I was the one who was fortunate to be in his presence.。
I think as we continue to think about what it is for God to call us as a church community。
into uncharted waters and an uncharted season that is ahead of us, I think one of the very。
first things we have to wrestle and grapple with is to completely redefine how we actually。
think about what success will look like in the season ahead.。
It's very easy for us to actually define success in worldly terms, to define what we think。
is successful in God's kingdom in certain ways.。
When we enter into an uncharted season, for example, our excitement might be that God's。
about to do something great, that God's about to do something marvelous and spectacular。
and amazing.。
It's going to be like the main cathedrals in Burgos and Leon.。
It's going to be awesome and huge and big.。
But actually, so often in God's kingdom, the worldly understanding of what success might。
look like, bigger is better, is not actually at all what success in the kingdom looks like.。
And as we begin to grapple with this, we have to begin to challenge ourselves with some。
changes now, a posture of heart now, or we're going to press on into a season like this.。
And because we're defining what we think God is doing, or we're defining what we think。
success will be for this season, whether communally for us as a church or individually for us,。
and God doesn't do it that way, we're going to walk away disappointed.。
Here's how I want to say it as clearly as I can.。
If we as a church here in Hong Kong are going to be people who are ready to act and respond。
as the Holy Spirit speaks, then we're going to need to release the pressure to succeed。
with the priority to be faithful.。
We're going to have to release that pressure to succeed with the priority to be faithful.。
To be faithful to the thing that God's called us to do, whether no one shows up or not.。
To be faithful to the small, everyday, almost to us seems kind of mundane and ordinary,。
but it's the very thing that God has placed in our hands.。
As we stay faithful to what God has called us to do, we begin to shift how we think about。
what God is going to do next.。
You see, a definition for success in the kingdom is not found in the abundance of achievement,。
but in the faithfulness of obedience.。
Come on, church.。
What the Lord is calling us to when He calls us to a time of unchartedness is not a call。
to the outcome.。
Come on, church.。
It's not a call to the grand and the spectacular and some outcome.。
It's a call to faithfulness in the small thing.。
It's a call to a commitment to what He's already put in our hearts, a commitment to the thing。
that He might have called us to, which may seem to the world like a small and insignificant。
thing, but to Him, He's going, "Oh, you are fortunate to be in the presence of that one."。
You might remember at Vision Sunday, I shared this idea of the uncharted by giving us a。
picture of those early pioneer boats, right?。
Those early settlers that believed that there was land out there, but no one had ever been。
there before, and there was no map or charter to help them to get there, and it was uncharted。
waters for them.。
And yet they got the boat together and they got a crew together and they set out in hopes。
and excitement that they might find something out there.。
I shared on that Sunday the picture of that captain on the bow of the boat with his telescope。
looking out for the land, and the many people on the boat all had their individual parts。
to play to ensure that the boat was going in the direction that the captain wanted the。
boat to go in.。
And when God is calling us into a season of unchartedness, we have to realize that we're。
not the captain in the bow.。
We might like to be, but we're not the one who's the captain in the bow.。
That's Jesus Christ, and he's leading his church into uncharted waters.。
Our role is not with the telescope looking out beyond, our role is to get a hold of the。
rigging, to get a hold of the sails.。
Our role is to ensure that the ship, his church, his bride, is moving in the direction that。
the captain has called it to go.。
Miracled to the small thing, the small beautiful thing of serving the captain.。
Now what you need to understand is that there were many boats in those days that went out。
looking for distant lands.。
Because they didn't have maps, they had no idea how far those lands were.。
And maybe when they set out for harbor, they put two months worth of food and supplies。
on the boat, and when they get out there, they realize that there's a point of no return.。
We haven't found any land yet, we need to turn around now and go back, otherwise the。
supplies will run out and we're all basically going to die.。
And for every 10 boats that went out, nine of them returned having not found a thing.。
Could you imagine how it would have felt if you were a sailor on one of those boats?。
You had such high expectations and excitement, and yet you've come back without finding land,。
and they would have felt angry and frustrated, and, "Well, that was a waste of time.。
Why did we even bother to do that?。
There wasn't any fruit at all."。
And when God calls a community to uncharted waters, we have to realize that He doesn't。
promise us something spectacular.。
He doesn't promise us the abundance of all this achievement.。
The point of calling a church to uncharted waters is that He's calling us to faithfulness.。
He's saying literally, "You don't know what's out there, but that's not your concern.。
You're not to be worried about whether you're going to find land or not.。
It may happen.。
It may not happen.。
What I'm calling you is to follow after me.。
And if you're the chef below deck preparing the food, prepare the food.。
If you're the one on the deck that's preparing the rigging for the next time we put the sail。
up, prepare the rigging.。
Do the thing that is in your hand."。
And yet so often we desire to know what it is that is about to happen.。
We get so obsessed with the achievement and the outcome because we take what a worldly。
understanding of success is and we bring it into the church, we bring it into our Christian。
lives and we begin to say, "Well, unless we see a great outcome, then it's a complete。
waste of time."。
Like me going to sleep praying for that poor pastor because he's not seeing any fruit in。
his ministry and God coming and going, "You're thinking of it differently.。
You're thinking of it wrongly.。
You got to be very careful that we don't start this season of Uncharted thinking wrongly,。
that it's going to be about something spectacular."。
Look, there may be for some of us in this room spectacular things ahead, things that。
you never would have anticipated or expected.。
There might be for some of us these incredible testimonies of God doing miraculous things。
in our lives and we believe for that, we pray for that and we want that, of course.。
But here's the reality for many of us, actually what will be in this season is simply God。
looking to see whether we'd be willing to sacrifice and give and serve and press in。
to the thing that's already in our hand.。
It's interesting, when you look at the book of Acts, which is a fascinating thing to look。
at, and you look at how the early church grew and what the early church became.。
So often when we look at the book of Acts, we see the heroes of the book of Acts, people。
like the great apostles, like Peter and Paul and James and Barnabas and Silas and these。
other ones with a narrative that Luke is presenting for us in Acts of the growth of the early。
church.。
He's zeroing in on the spectacular things.。
He often zeroes in on these great moments when Peter literally heals somebody, where。
there's somebody raised from the dead, where even the handkerchiefs of Paul make the sick。
people well.。
It's easy when you read the book of Acts to think that actually the growth and the。
sustaining of the church was because of these super apostles, when actually if you dig just。
a little bit below the surface, the book of Acts presents to us the growth and the sustainability。
of the church, not because of these super apostles who did amazing things, but because。
of the everyday, almost unthought of, unknown, unnamed individuals who were day in, day。
out a part of that church.。
Not the ones that went out and did amazing things, but the ones that remained in the。
cities and the towns and showed up each week.。
The code of faithfulness is not a sexy thing.。
And that's why the world struggles with the concept, because it doesn't seem like it's。
a great thing.。
But the code of faithfulness is how Jesus builds his kingdom.。
It is the priest who prepares a sermon, not knowing if anyone's going to show up for 38。
years.。
It is the parent who's praying for their adult child to come to faith in Jesus, even though。
for years it seems like they're the furthest away they could be.。
It is the small business owner who's making incredibly faithful, sacrificial decisions。
that no one will ever know in order to make sure that the business stays afloat in a tough。
market.。
He's day to day faithfully committed decisions and choices to what God has called us to do。
in the here and now.。
That is his success.。
And he looks on that and he says, "I want my church to be found faithful."。
One thing you have to remember is that large doors swing on small hinges.。
And one of the things that I love about the book of Acts is that it does from time to。
time introduce us to these small hinges, not the great Pauls and Peters, but ones who we。
would probably never have known unless there was a little bit of a mention of them, but。
ones that we can begin to get a glimpse of what it was like to be one of these unnamed。
or unknown sort of faithfully committed people in the church in those days.。
And I want to introduce you to one of them here this morning.。
His name is Jason.。
His story is found in Acts 17, and he's a Christian in the city of Thessalonica.。
And we pick up the story here.。
He's only mentioned in two verses in the whole of this section.。
But we pick up the story in the middle of Paul and Silas' recent missionary journey.。
They're about halfway through their missionary journey.。
And as part of that, they come to the city of Thessalonica.。
And as was their missionary kind of motif, they went to the synagogue and began to preach。
the good news to the synagogue.。
Let me pick up the story from verse 4 of chapter 17.。
It says, "Some of the Jews were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas, as did a large。
number of God-fearing Greeks and not a few prominent women.。
But the Jews were jealous, so they rounded up some bad characters from the marketplace,。
formed a mob, and started a riot in the city.。
They rushed to Jason's house in search of Paul and Silas in order to bring them out。
to the crowd."。
I love this moment.。
So here's Jason.。
Now, Luke doesn't give us any backstory.。
But just by understanding a little bit of the Greek Roman culture, a little bit of the。
history of the church, we can begin to make some pretty good assumptions about Jason as。
a person.。
Jason, obviously, had earned a decent amount of wealth because he had his own home, a home。
big enough to house Paul and Silas and some other traveling missionaries.。
We know that Jason was a Christian, and it was likely that he was a Christian before。
Paul and Silas showed up.。
The church in Thessalonica was already operating before Paul and Silas come as part of their。
missionary journey here.。
And it's likely that Jason may have been one of those that was in the church in Jerusalem。
that had been pushed out because of persecution and had moved to Thessalonica, set up his。
business there, and decided in his home, which was large enough, to be able to host a small。
church there.。
So although we don't have this specifically in the passage, it's very likely that Jason。
is running a church in his house.。
How many are a part of that church?。
We don't know, but it would have been pretty small.。
We're talking a little bit like my friend on the Camino, maybe five, maybe eight, maybe。
15 people gathering regularly in his house to believe in Jesus.。
Thessalonica was a hostile environment to the Christian faith.。
It was an incredibly difficult place to be.。
And so here's Jason, pretty much a no one, running a church in his house, doing it faithfully。
day in, day out in a hostile and difficult environment.。
And then he suddenly hears that the apostle Paul has come to town.。
Can you imagine what he must have felt like?。
He must have been like, "Finally, we're going to get a bit of success in Thessalonica.。
Finally, people are going to come to the Lord.。
Revival is going to break out in our town."。
You can imagine Jason being so super excited about this, and for good reason.。
In fact, we know from this passage here already that Paul and Silas had success as they shared。
the gospel in the synagogue in Thessalonica.。
Jews came to believe, a few prominent women came to believe, a large number of Greeks。
came to faith.。
There was already movement of the gospel.。
You can imagine that Jason and his friends probably had been praying for the gospel to。
take root in Thessalonica for years, and now Paul and Silas have come, and suddenly they're。
beginning to see the numbers that they were expecting, and they're beginning to think。
that now this is success.。
Are you with me?。
Following this?。
Now notice in the backdrop of that what happens next.。
But when they did not find them, remember the crowd are trying to find Paul and Silas,。
but when they did not find them, they dragged Jason and some other brothers before the city。
officials shouting, "These men who have caused trouble all over the world have now come here."。
And Jason has welcomed them into his house.。
They are all defying Caesar's decrees, saying that there is another king called Jesus.。
So here's Jason, just an ordinary kind of nobody, faithful person running a church in。
the city.。
When Paul shows up, things start happening.。
Success appears to be taking place.。
Then the riots are formed.。
The mob comes, and they show up at Jason's house.。
They didn't know that Paul and Silas specifically were there, but the mob was probably thinking,。
"Well, Jason is the only Christian we know in this town, so if Paul and Silas are with。
anyone, it's likely to be with these guys."。
And when they show up there, they can't find Paul and Silas, so what do they do?。
They drag Jason and some of the brothers from the church into the court, in before the magic,。
and they registrate of the whole city.。
And notice what begins to happen.。
They begin to say about Jason all of the issues that they had about Paul.。
They begin to basically accuse Jason and his brothers of all of the things that were happening。
because of Paul and Silas.。
In other words, Jason is suddenly in a situation where he thought revival was breaking out,。
but now he's actually before the courts being accused of something he did not do.。
He's now getting the punishment for what Paul and Silas should have got.。
He's now in a situation where he's helpless and defenseless, and the court is beginning。
to heap upon him the crimes that he did not commit.。
Not only that, but notice what happens in the next verse.。
It says this, "When they heard this, the crowd and the city officials were thrown into turmoil.。
Then they made Jason and the brothers post bond and let them go."。
The posting of bond here is critical, and this is why Luke mentions it.。
The posting of a bond was a payment that needed to be paid, which was an extortionate amount,。
but a financial payment that could be paid to ensure that the punishment had been paid。
for, so they didn't have to go further to jail or seek any further punishment.。
It's a little bit like, have you ever been on eBay and you're buying something on eBay。
and you're kind of like bidding to kind of do it in the auction, but then there's a price。
you can pay to get the thing straight away?。
You've been there, done that?。
This is what that is like.。
It's like if you pay this amount, you will fully pay for the punishment that should come.。
So here's Jason and the brothers.。
They willingly pay that price.。
It was an extortionate amount, a lot of money in those days, but they pay it and then they。
are let go.。
Think about this.。
I wonder if this whole thing reminds you of anything or specifically anyone.。
Jesus, in Jerusalem, brought before a court and the magistrates of the city at the time。
accused for a crime that he had not done, brought before them and taking on the punishment。
that should have come to others.。
Jesus who pays the bond price in the shedding of his blood on the cross for anyone who had。
ever sinned.。
Jesus standing in the gap, taking the punishment and the cost and paying that cost on behalf。
of everyone else so that they might become free.。
And I want you to see this.。
The cross of Calvary becomes in the world's eyes, the very definition of failure.。
Like if you think about worldly success and how to define it, the cross is not that.。
Jesus on the cross looked like complete and utter failure in the world's eyes.。
But God looks on his son on the cross and he sees a man who has been faithful to what。
he's been called to do.。
So the cross of Jesus becomes the most successful moment of all of human history where sin is。
defeated and salvation is offered for all and forgiveness is made for anyone who would。
be willing to recognize that Jesus paid the bond price.。
The center of our Christian faith in the world's eyes looks like failure, but in God's eyes,。
he was faithful.。
So here's Jason just a few years later thinking revival is about to break out.。
Thinking like all this great stuff is about to happen and he begins to see little bits。
of it taking place.。
And he's suddenly having to carry his own cross quite literally.。
He's suddenly in the same place that Jesus was in.。
Now I don't know about you, but if I had been Jason, I would have been tempted to react。
maybe like Judas.。
Hey guys, I know, okay, look, look, I know where Paul and Silas are.。
I'll tell you what, if you let me go, we're going to go into the marketplace and the man。
that I kissed on the cheek, that's Paul.。
I think Jason would have been tempted to maybe react like Peter did.。
Don't you think that there would have been a temptation for Jason to go, "No, I don't。
know who this Paul and Silas are.。
I've never been around them.。
I don't know who they are.。
I don't know.。
I've got nothing to do with it.。
I'm innocent.。
Look at my hands.。
They're innocent."。
Right?。
We can begin to think that maybe he's going to act like Judas, act like Peter.。
Here's what Jason does.。
He pays the price.。
Jason who really is a nobody, who really has not much said about him at all for the rest。
of Scripture, he's the one who stands in the gap because he decides, "Look, there's a cost。
to pay here, but I am going to be faithful to the thing that God has called me to, even。
if it's going to come at great cost, great price.。
I want to be found faithful."。
Which is really interesting because in the moment of the narrative, Luke continues the。
story of Paul and Silas.。
Finally Paul and Silas that very night leave Thessalonica and the narrative of Acts, you。
can read it later, it follows Paul and Silas off on the rest of their journey.。
It just follows them off and we never hear about Jason again.。
Can you imagine what it would have been like for Jason?。
I mean the spotlight follows the super apostles, but Jason remains in Thessalonica.。
Jason remains having to still lead the church.。
Jason remains having to now deal with not only a huge financial loss in paying the bond,。
but also now a massive reputation loss in his city.。
We don't know what happened to his business, but I can only imagine it was under struggle。
and trial then.。
We don't know how this would have been for him, but we can only imagine that as Paul。
and Silas move on to greener pastures, there's Jason committed to the very thing that he'd。
put in his hands.。
This is a picture of how the church grows.。
Paul and Silas would need hundreds of Jasons to stand faithfully and be committed to building。
his kingdom as they went through their journey.。
And I can stand before you here today and tell you that the vine over its last 30 years。
has needed many Jasons here.。
People that really are the epitome of faithfulness, who don't come up on the stage and get a spotlight。
in their face, who don't speak a good message and make you feel a certain way, but who have。
given their lives to serve in very small, almost imperceptible ways that have literally。
built the sustainability of this church.。
Let me introduce you to some of those Jasons in our midst.。
This is a photo of Auntie Hing and Auntie Hang.。
Auntie Hing and Auntie Hang are two of our creche workers.。
They have worked in our creche here on Sundays.。
Listen to this.。
They have worked here for almost 30 years.。
30 years, these women have shown up pretty much every Sunday and have looked after.。
And if you've been here for any season, you've had a toddler, a child, and you put that child。
in creche, it's these ladies that would have looked after your child.。
Some of you here have been at the vine for many years and your children are now in their。
late teens or early 20s.。
And these two women looked after them when they were toddlers here.。
These two women have served the vine without any desire for spotlight, for their stories。
to be told, for nearly 30 years showing up to do the little small thing that God had。
placed in their hands.。
They weren't worried about some big mega outcome.。
They were just being faithful to the beautiful gift of doing what God had called them to。
do.。
These two ladies have resigned.。
They've just resigned recently.。
We took this photo just a few weeks ago, blessing them with some gifts to say thank you as a。
staff because they are at an age now where they want to actually spend their time with。
their families.。
They're retiring essentially to do that.。
And we just so deeply honor them.。
And it's not just Auntie Hing and Auntie Hang.。
There are lots of people here every Sunday.。
I think about our hosts, our Filipino ladies that serve us as hosts week in and week out.。
I think about those that give up their time to be with our children in KFC and our flight。
youth group.。
I think about CG leaders who have faithfully committed to being leaders even when only。
two or four people show up out of the 10 or 15 that are on their list each week.。
I'm thinking about the people throughout our church that have built this church, not because。
they're looking for some big grand thanks or some massive successful world eyes achievement,。
but simply because they want to be found faithful.。
See, what might seem like a small thing for us is not a small thing for God.。
In His eyes, it's often those very moments that shape our soul and reveal to us the value。
of His kingdom and the treasures that are found within, the faithful, small, little。
things.。
And some of you here, you're getting frustrated because you were expecting it to be grander。
or bigger or better.。
And trust me, I've been there many times.。
I know how that feels.。
Some of you, you've been pressing in and trying really hard and it seemed like there hasn't。
been a lot of fruit.。
Some of you, you're wondering, "Well, what is my contribution?。
I can't do this or that.。
I'm not like a singer like that or a speaker like this.。
And what is my role to play?"。
Some of you have been so faithful and yet it's been so challenging and so hard and so。
difficult.。
You're so close to turning the boat back and returning to harbor.。
Mother Teresa said this beautiful thing.。
She said, "Not all of us can do great things, but all of us can do small things with great。
love."。
And for some of us in this room, it's been a hard and challenging season.。
I remember as I was sitting having dinner with the priest in that moment in the church,。
I remember saying to him at one point, "Have you ever felt like giving up?"。
I mean, that seemed like a sensible question to ask a pastor who's pastoring a church without。
people in it.。
And his response was this.。
He thought for a little while and he's like, "Let me be honest with you."。
He said, "I have many times prayed and asked God why.。
Why is it that it seems like my ministry is not very fruitful?"。
But he said, "I've long learned that God doesn't very often answer the big why questions of。
life.。
In fact, the why is not actually to be my concern.。
That's his concern.。
My concern is the thing that he's asked me to do and I will not give up on that."。
As I was preparing this message, I felt for many of us here that perhaps we are at that。
moment where we want to give up.。
There's this beautiful moment in the Old Testament when Nehemiah, one of the leaders of Israel。
in those days, was allowed to return to Jerusalem with the project to rebuild the walls around。
Jerusalem.。
That was a big, big project.。
It required a huge amount of faithfulness day in and day out.。
It was a difficult journey for Nehemiah.。
Many people didn't want to bother rebuilding the walls.。
It was a lot of resistance to rebuilding the walls.。
And you can look through the story of Nehemiah and you can see the many times where he's。
tempted to turn back, where he's tempted to give up.。
And in fact, there's three chapters where there's a different attack that happens to。
him in each chapter.。
And he's so overwhelmed by that that he gets to the next chapter and he has this beautiful。
moment.。
He's not sure if he can continue, but he turns to God and he says this.。
He says, "Strengthen my hands."。
What he's saying is, "I know that you call me to be faithful to this rebuilding of the。
wall, but it is hard work and many people are giving up on it.。
And there's all these attacks and there's all these temptations to not do the project.。
And I know that I'm shaking and that I'm almost at the point where I'm at breaking point.。
Lord, you need to strengthen my hands because I want to be found faithful."。
And I believe as we move as the vine here in Hong Kong into this season of Uncharted,。
this is the great invitation upon us, not the grand and amazing.。
That's in God's hands.。
The term success and failure are not the concerns of a servant.。
Those are the concerns of the master.。
The concern of the servant was I faithful.。
I want to pray here this morning.。
And if you're feeling particularly like your hands are shaking, and trust me, I felt like。
that many times.。
If it's been a hard season for you and it's been just difficult and you're almost at the。
point where you want to give up, whether that's in a relationship with someone that's been。
really hard and challenging, whether that's in work where you've been hitting a bit of。
a wall at work and you're not sure how to break out of that.。
Maybe it's in your relationship with Jesus and it feels like there's been pushing water。
uphill and you're not getting much from it or whatever.。
For each of us, it might manifest in different ways, but we know what it feels like to want。
to give up on the thing that God has called us to.。
My prayer is that the Lord would strengthen our hands.。
If you would like me to pray that, would you just stand?。
And I want to pray over each one of us here this morning.。
And as you stand, if you would like to be prayed for in that prayer of Nehemiah's, would。
you just gently open your hands before you?。
Father, I want to thank you so much for the men, women, children, families that are here。
in this room, those watching online, those in our overflow.。
Father, we stand before you now recognizing that in this season of calling us to uncharted。
territory and uncharted waters, the temptation might be to expect the grand or look for the。
bigger and better.。
We are grateful, Lord, that you do not define success in the kingdom in the same way that。
the world does.。
And Lord, I want to pray first of all over every family in this room, over every marriage。
in this room, over every relationship in this room.。
I want to lift the pressure to perform as the world would expect, the pressure to succeed。
as the world would define it.。
The Lord does not look over you and expect you to produce amazing things, but he does。
look over you and asks if you're being faithful.。
And Lord, I'm so grateful that in that parable of the talents, where those that had been。
faithful with what you had given them, you come to them and you say, "Well done, my good。
and faithful servant.。
You have been faithful in the small things.。
Now come and partake and share in your master's happiness."。
Lord, for these people in this room, Lord, I want to pray that as you pour out your spirit。
on them and as you strengthen their hands for the season ahead, they would hear your。
voice personally say to them, "Well done, my good and faithful servant.。
My prayer for us as a church community is that in our workplaces, in our education spheres,。
in our spheres of influence in Hong Kong, that the Lord would say, "Oh man, the people。
around you, they are privileged to be in your presence."。
Not because you're suddenly getting great promotions, suddenly making loads more money,。
suddenly achieving awards, but simply because you've been found faithful with the gospel。
in your hands, to the thing that perhaps no one will ever know that you did, but it was。
an act of integrity.。
And Lord, I want to pray for each one of us who are feeling weak, myself included.。
Lord, we want to join with Nehemiah, knowing that it's not easy to be faithful.。
It's not easy to remain like Jason behind and have to do the hard everyday work of showing。
up.。
But Lord, for those in this room where they're close to giving up, we pray, Holy Spirit,。
you would strengthen their hands.。
We pray for a faithful church, Lord.。
We pray that you would release upon us your spirit that would strengthen us and enable。
us to walk to whatever future it might be.。
Lord, we let go of whether there are lands ahead of us or not.。
You're the one with the telescope.。
It is in your sovereign hands.。
But right now, Lord, the everyday commitment to what you've asked us to do in this moment。
is in ours.。
Strengthen our hands.。
And Father, as we're strengthened, we pray that what happened for Jason might also happen。
for us.。
Because we know that years later, Paul would see that the church at Thessalonica was significant。
enough that he would write letters that we now have in the Bible.。
And Lord, I pray that in our everyday faithfulness to even the ordinary and the mundane, your。
glory would be seen.。
We pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says.。
(gentle music)。
