In Jesus' name, amen.。
Thank you, worship team.。
Thank you, everyone.。
Say hello to somebody as you sit down.。
Well, we are really excited that we continue to be。
in our Exodus series, which has been just such an amazing。
journey for us as a church.。
And today we get the privilege of having。
our two founding pastors share our message today.。
So would you give a very warm welcome。
as I introduce firstly, John Snellgrove, Pastor John.。
It's so good to have you here.。
It's so good.。
And Sandra was here earlier as well.。
It's such a great honor to have you stand。
and share a message.。
And I know that there's a new season going for you。
and Sandra as well, Priscilla and Aquila,。
I believe it's called.。
And this really is an opportunity for John and Sandra。
to empower the global church, encourage the global church。
in their continuous faith journey。
and to really equip the younger generation,。
which is really exciting.。
And if you wanna find out more,。
then the details are showing up on the screen.。
Do contact John and Sandra.。
I'm sure that they would love to tell you more about it.。
So let us pray for John and Tony.。
Father, we thank you.。
We thank you for the opportunity we have to listen。
and hear the wisdom from John and Tony.。
And I pray that you would bless John as he shares right now。
and that our hearts would really receive what it is。
that you have for us in Jesus name, amen.。
- Amen, thank you, Carla.。
And good morning, church.。
- Good morning.。
- Good.。
You are not able to go it alone.。
Can you turn to the person next to you and tell them also,。
you are not able to go it alone.。
I noticed something here in Hong Kong.。
When you ask someone the question, how are you?。
I invariably get the answer.。
You know what I'm gonna say, don't you?。
I'm busy.。
Busyness in a city of business is seen like a badge of merit.。
I'm busy because I'm important.。
And yet Moses was in many ways like that.。
Yes, our hero of the Exodus。
and the miraculous crossing of the Red Sea.。
And as we look today how he dealt with it,。
I am praying for us.。
That we would each experience a personal Exodus。
from the need to be busy.。
To be the person who has to do everything。
so that the world continues to take over.。
There is a term which is more and more frequently employed。
in Christian circles, which depicts a problem。
that has been widespread amongst evangelicals,。
even epidemic.。
And that term is burnout.。
Burnout happens frequently to Christian leaders。
who strive to make impossible expectations and demands.。
The achievement of which will show him or her。
to be both spiritual and successful.。
Failure to accomplish these expectations and demands。
is believed to prove one lazy,。
unspiritually minded or a failure.。
Burnout occurs when in sheer exhaustion and frustration,。
we lose all hope of meeting the standard。
which is imposed on us either by ourselves, others or both.。
And we simply give up.。
And burnout is not just a phenomenon found。
in Christian leaders or just among Christians。
for that matter.。
Burnout is caused by the sheer volume。
of non-essential activities, which we foolishly,。
foolishly strive to maintain.。
Are you guilty?。
I know I am.。
And Moses' answer comes in the unlikely shape。
of a visit from his father-in-law.。
I mean, there are lots of mother-in-law jokes,。
but there's very few father-in-law jokes.。
Moses was dangerously close to burning himself out。
when of all people, his father-in-law came to his rescue.。
What appears on the surface to be the insignificant visit。
of a relative is really a divine provision。
to deliver Moses.。
Not from the wrath of Pharaoh,。
nor from the attack of the Egyptian army,。
but to deliver him from himself.。
Now as Jethro, that's the name of the father-in-law。
by the way, it's nothing to do with the vine worship leader.。
As Jethro himself puts it,。
Moses was weary himself and the Israelites out.。
Look at this, verse 18.。
You and these people who come to you。
will only wear yourselves out.。
The work is too heavy for you.。
You cannot handle it alone.。
You cannot handle it alone.。
Thanks to the common sense of a wise father-in-law,。
Moses was delivered from his own destruction.。
The burnout which resulted from a distorted perception。
and a too demanding ministry.。
We're gonna be looking today at Exodus 18。
and the text of chapter 18 divides evenly。
into two simple and straightforward portions.。
Verses one to 12, which I will summarize。
by the title Jethro's Arrival.。
And verses 13 to 27, which will depict Jethro's advice.。
The two portions are very much related.。
As a spoiler alert, we will have a film from Egypt。
at the halftime mark and a special guest,。
the vine's own Jethro in part two.。
The first half of the chapter reveals several symptoms。
of a serious problems in Moses' life,。
which prompted not only the arrival of Jethro。
at the Israelites camp, but also his advice.。
We would do well to listen to the wise words。
of this Midianite, who has much to teach us。
about managing our lives and our ministries.。
For those of us like me, who are predisposed。
to busyness and over involvement,。
they can spare us from the deadly disease of burnouts.。
The first section verses one to 12,。
which I've called Jethro's Arrival,。
breaks evenly into two divisions.。
The first division, verses one to six,。
might be entitled Focus on the Family.。
They reveal the occasion,。
the reason for the arrival of Jethro.。
Verse one informs us of the basis。
for Jethro's decision to visit Moses,。
whilst verses two to six tell us。
of the purpose of that visit.。
The second division, verses seven to 12,。
focus on the faith of Jethro.。
They depict the outcome of Jethro's arrival.。
Moses gets the chance to report。
on God's good hand to the Israelites,。
and Jethro responds to God's goodness to Israel,。
rejoicing, proclaiming God's greatness,。
and worshiping him with Moses and the elders of Israel.。
But this is not the 21st century.。
It's difficult for me to envision。
just how Jethro gathered the information。
about the well-being of Moses.。
There was no Facebook or IG, or even CNN at the time.。
But the text tells us, verse one,。
he heard everything God had done for Moses and his people.。
Perhaps Jethro had made a point to invite travelers,。
even caravans, to share a meal with him,。
or spend the night in his tent,。
enable him to learn the things about Egypt.。
The point of the passage is not how Jethro learned。
of Moses' well-being, but of what he learned.。
He learned that God had protected Moses,。
and that he had delivered the Israelites out of Egypt.。
Jethro had learned enough to conclude。
that the circumstances were such。
that Moses and his family should be reunited.。
And verses two to six indicate the purpose。
of Jethro's visit to Moses, to reunite Zipporah,。
his daughter, Moses' wife, and Gershom and Eliezer,。
the grandsons, Moses' sons, with Moses.。
It was apparently a pleasant surprise for Moses.。
But whilst we might have expected him。
to pay much more attention to his wife。
and children coming back, we read that Moses。
is reported to have immediately gone to meet Jethro,。
kissed him, and then go to Jethro's tent to meet with him.。
Inside the tent, Moses and Jethro went through。
the formalities of a reception of an honored guest。
in Oriental culture, in Eastern culture.。
Moses brought Jethro up to date with a detailed report。
of how the hand of God had delivered the Israelites。
and devastated the Egyptians.。
Verse eight, Moses told his father-in-law。
about everything the Lord had done to Pharaoh。
and the Egyptians for Israel's sake,。
and about all the hardships they had met along the way,。
and how the Lord had saved them.。
Jethro's response, described in verses nine to 12,。
seems to be more than just Oriental courtesy.。
It appears that Jethro here professes a personal faith。
in the God of Israel, which as a pagan,。
he had not previously.。
First, Jethro rejoiced with Moses, praising God。
for his grace manifested towards Israel。
as evidenced by Moses' report.。
We read this in verse nine and 10.。
Jethro was delighted to hear about all the good things。
the Lord had done for Israel in rescuing them。
from the hands of the Egyptian.。
He said, "Praise be to the Lord, who has rescued you。
"from the hands of the Egyptian and of Pharaoh,。
"and who rescued the people from the hands of the Egyptian."。
Secondly, Jethro seems to acknowledge for the first time。
the superiority of God above all other gods,。
which one would have supposed would have included。
his previously worshiped pagan gods.。
Jethro's faith is demonstrated in the offering。
of sacrifices to God and the sacrificial meal,。
which Jethro, Moses, and all the elders of Israel shared.。
Verse 11 says this.。
"Now I know that the Lord is greater。
"than all the other gods, for he did this to those。
"who had treated Israel arrogantly.。
"Then Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, brought a burnt offering。
"and other sacrifices to God, and Aaron came。
"with all the elders of Israel to eat a meal。
"with Moses' father-in-law in the presence of God."。
Therefore, for Moses, this was a happy occasion,。
not only because of Israel's victory over Amalek,。
but because of the renewed fellowship。
and the renewed relationship with his wife and his family.。
But it leads me to a but, and it's a big but.。
Having briefly considered the arrival of Jethro。
and Moses' family and the affirmation of Jethro's faith,。
I'm left with a nagging question.。
Why was it, why was it that Jethro had to initiate。
the reunion of Moses and his family?。
Put it differently, why didn't Moses send。
for his wife and sons, rather than have Jethro。
show up with them unexpectedly?。
Now, we have a tendency, don't we, to assume the best。
of our biblical heroes, like Moses, David, Abraham, et cetera.。
I call it the pious bias.。
It seeks to elevate biblical characters。
to a level far above our own performance。
and far above what we would expect, knowing man's nature.。
By the way, not Jesus, I'm saying, okay?。
But when we come to chapter 18, it is not Moses' strengths,。
it is not his virtues, which are extolled in this chapter,。
but his weaknesses.。
Now, here is a man, Moses, that I can identify with,。
a man with flaws like mine.。
And these flaws are keenly observed by Jethro,。
whose advice in verses 13 to 27 is based upon。
his observation of Moses' unconscious blunders,。
both with regard to his family, and as you shall see later,。
his function as Israel's leader.。
Let us press on to see how the events of verses one to 12。
serve as a clue to the failures which Jethro seeks to remedy。
by his wisdom and counsel.。
To prepare us, let's go to Egypt,。
and to an interview that Pastor Andrew had。
with Father Justin, not you, by the way.。
One of the head monks at St. Catherine's Monastery。
at the foothills of Mount Sinai.。
(gentle music)。
(water rushing)。
(gentle music)。
(water rushing)。
(gentle music)。
(water rushing)。
(gentle music)。
(water rushing)。
(gentle music)。
(water rushing)。
- Father Justin, it is such a privilege。
to be with you today and to see this incredible library.。
I can't wait to kind of look around。
and have you show me some of the things that are here.。
- Well, there have been monks living here for 1,700 years.。
The library we have has been slowly built up。
over the centuries, and people have said。
it's the memory of the monastery, so it's a great treasure.。
(gentle music)。
This is the most illuminated manuscript。
of the latter that we have.。
The passage that I opened it to。
is when he discusses discretion.。
He says the greatest gift is discretion。
because discretion is knowing。
how to make spiritual decisions,。
how to weigh things, how to know the way forward.。
And he illustrates that by having three monks.。
The one is still lying in bed, half asleep.。
The other one is middle-aged,。
and he's standing in the center.。
And then the other one has attained, under old age,。
you see his white hair and his beard,。
and he is being crowned by Christ。
who appears from the corner, and he's blessing him.。
- Yeah, I was gonna ask you if that was Christ.。
- So this is the person。
who's just beginning the spiritual life,。
the one who has reached the middle stage,。
and the one who has reached the summit.。
- And when you're fathering the younger monks。
in the monastery here,。
this kind of process of spiritual discipleship, I suppose,。
is that in your mind。
as you're leading the younger monks。
through their life here?。
- One of the beautiful things, not just in monasteries,。
but in the whole Orthodox Church,。
is that we are not expected to do this by ourselves.。
We look to others who have experienced grace,。
who have grown in the Spirit,。
and we follow their example,。
and we receive their instructions.。
So it's an essential part,。
especially at the beginning of the spiritual life,。
to have direction, to have guidance.。
Many times we think that we're doing very well,。
and we're not.。
Many times we think that we're not doing very well at all,。
and we are.。
So it's through experience。
that a person can set us on the right path。
and make sure that we're going in the right direction.。
- Well, I'd love to actually sit down with you。
and talk a little bit more about that relationship。
between being a spiritual father。
and the monks here in the monastery.。
So perhaps we can go and sit down together。
and have a chat. - Fine.。
- Thank you so much for showing me this.。
Father Justin, that manuscript you just showed us。
of the three figures。
kind of in their various different states, I suppose,。
of spiritual maturity,。
really opens up for me a topic。
that I'm very interested in exploring with you。
around that whole sort of sense of being a spiritual father。
within the Orthodox community.。
And I'd love to just get a sense from you,。
what does that look like?。
What does that sort of spiritual father。
to the junior monk relationship look like。
within this community?。
- A monastery usually has one person。
who is very responsible for the spiritual formation,。
especially of those who have just arrived.。
And in Sinai, the senior father。
under the archbishop is called the dikeos.。
The dikeos is a superior.。
And one of his primary obligations。
is the spiritual formation of the novices.。
So that's how he conveys to them the spiritual heritage。
and the spiritual witness of the monastery.。
So when you read the sayings of the desert fathers,。
these are just short anecdotes.。
A person went to a monk and asked him this question,。
he gave this answer.。
And it's profound, and it's just a short saying.。
So they're very approachable,。
but those are some of the earliest monastic texts。
that I read.。
And I was so enthused by everything that I read,。
I was wondering, are there still people。
that live like this?。
That was my own beginnings.。
And I think that everyone goes back to that first experience。
when they think about the monastic life。
and the groundwork that they laid.。
And they understood from experience。
that you have a person who is more mature,。
more experienced, who can guide a person。
who's just starting out in the spiritual life.。
So that tradition of the elder and the disciple。
goes back to the very beginning.。
The most important book written here at Sinai。
is called "The Ladder of Divine Ascent."。
And if you look carefully, you can see how he was drawing。
on that whole tradition of the Desert Fathers.。
He describes the spiritual life like a ladder,。
when you start for the first rung。
and go to the second rung with Christ at the summit,。
summoning us to make the spiritual ascent.。
And when we first start out, we need care.。
- Right.。
- He mentions that when you have been in a monastery。
for a short time, many times you are thinking,。
well, now I've reached perfection, I can go back home,。
I can become the great preacher, I can bring out a vacation.。
So from the very beginning, you need discretion。
to know which thoughts that are coming to you。
are to your benefit and which ones are undermining your goal.。
And you gain that by having an experienced elder。
who can guide you, not only theoretically,。
but based on his own experience.。
One person said, "It's not a little stream。
"that we jump over, it's like a great ocean."。
And no matter how tall a person is,。
when he wades out into the ocean,。
he finds things that are over his head.。
So it's a very profound understanding,。
and it's a process that continues his whole life.。
(gentle music)。
- Father Justin, I also wanted to ask you a little bit。
about what a day in the life is like。
for a monk in the monastery here.。
Can you tell me a little bit more about that?。
- It's centered around the services.。
The first service is at four in the morning.。
Four in the morning, all the stars are out。
in the desert sky, and it's beautiful。
to have a service in the quietest part of the day.。
The service lasts until seven o'clock in the morning,。
and by that time, the sun has come up。
and a new day has begun.。
And it's beautiful to watch the light。
slowly increase in the church.。
- And in the service, it's readings?。
- Reading from the Psalms,。
the hymns for the saints of the day.。
We celebrate the liturgy here every day,。
and so that's the morning service.。
We have a short service at noon.。
We have vespers in the afternoon.。
So the beginning, the middle, and the end of the day。
is spent in the services.。
And I think because the community is so small,。
there's a sense that we're more like a family.。
- And what does this family mean to you?。
I mean, you've obviously been a part of this family。
for many years, as you were sharing with us earlier.。
What does it mean for you to actually have。
that kind of family so consistently in your life?。
- There's an amazing balance.。
You have your personal space,。
but you also have this sense of community.。
And the one doesn't intrude on the other.。
I think they're both necessary。
'cause you must be yourself.。
There's no, what you would call, institutionalization。
where a person conforms to something.。
A person remains himself, but at the same time,。
he becomes a part of this larger whole.。
And as I mentioned, there's this beautiful balance。
between personal space and being part of a community.。
- Wonderful.。
You're gonna show me some other places in the monastery.。
Shall we go? - Yes.。
- Father Justin, I wanted to also ask。
about the wisdom tradition and the role。
that maybe the wisdom books play in your order as well.。
We've talked quite a bit about the Psalms。
and obviously the big influence they have,。
but how does wisdom traditions play within the order?。
- We read the entire book of Proverbs。
during Great Lent in the services.。
And the wisdom that he imparts。
is very much a part of our tradition.。
And there's such a similarity。
between the inherited wisdom。
that is enshrined in the book of Proverbs。
and the sayings of the Desert Fathers,。
which is lived experience, solutions,。
memorable sayings, memorable events。
that have all been collected。
and then passed down from one generation to another.。
The beautiful thing about living at a place like this。
is that every day you have a greater appreciation。
and a greater sense of the significance of the tradition,。
the significance of the place。
and everything that you experience here.。
It's constantly growing and knowledge and wisdom。
and a beautiful process that never has an end.。
- And that's the thing that I think。
you've really impressed on me over our time together。
is that it's this wonderful combination。
between theology, between practice,。
the services of worship you have,。
but then the lived experience。
and doing that in community together.。
And all of that working together。
to really create that spiritual formation as a community.。
I think that's profound.。
- Thanks.。
While I'm waiting, that was quite some beard, wasn't it?。
(audience laughing)。
So let's move on with our story.。
The next morning, Moses and the people of Israel。
began their daily routine.。
The people who sought to know God's will from Moses。
began to line up at the designated place,。
perhaps just outside Moses' tent.。
With a nation composed, as Andrew told us in previous weeks,。
of nearly two million people,。
one could imagine the line was long。
and that it began to queue up very early in the morning.。
I don't know if it's four o'clock or not.。
Moses, we are told, seated himself。
sitting as Israel's sole judge.。
Let's read this.。
The next day, Moses took his seat。
to serve as judge for the people.。
And they stood around him from morning till evening.。
When his father-in-law saw all that Moses。
was doing for the people, he said,。
what is this that you're doing for the people?。
Why do you alone sit as judge?。
Why are all these people stand around you。
from morning until evening?。
You see, the people came to him with all those matters。
which needed a decision, an instruction, or counsel.。
The people looked to Moses alone for a word from God。
for guidance in their lives.。
At the end of the day,。
the long line of waiting Israelites was still there.。
Jethro was able to quickly identify the problem。
to which it seems Moses was oblivious.。
Jethro was baffled by the inefficiency。
of what had taken place during the day.。
So perhaps over dinner that night,。
they sat around and Jethro began to inquire。
about Moses' rationale for administering justice,。
judging as he was doing.。
It was apparent from Jethro's questioning。
that he did not agree with the way。
that Moses was doing things.。
Even the way the questions are phrased in writing,。
you can imagine the tone of voice which he asked.。
Father-in-law, as you know,。
can do a better job than others on this.。
He usually starts with a question.。
Are you a good enough man to be my daughter's husband?。
I believe Moses was completely caught off guard。
by Jethro's disapproval.。
Moses was so engrossed in his work,。
so desperately trying to keep his head above water。
that he didn't have time to reflect on what he was doing.。
Jethro, on the other hand,。
had already suspected a problem for some time.。
Moses had not only sent his family home。
for Jethro to care for,。
but apparently he'd had little contact with them。
and he delayed in reuniting with his family.。
That morning, Jethro began to see the pieces。
fall into place.。
Moses had not sent for his family.。
Why?。
Because he did not have time to care for them,。
even to think of them.。
The response of Moses reveals his distorted perception,。
which was the root problem here.。
Moses answered him,。
because the people come to me to seek God's will.。
Whenever they have a dispute,。
it is brought to me and I decide between the parties。
and inform them of God's decrees and instruction.。
While Jethro quickly sized up the situation,。
Moses wasn't thinking very carefully。
about what he was doing.。
His response reveals several misconceptions。
regarding his role as a leader.。
Consider them with me for a moment.。
Firstly, Moses believed that every request for help。
made the matter his responsibility.。
Secondly, Moses seemed to assume。
that because the people came to him personally for help,。
it was his responsibility to help them personally.。
Thirdly, Moses wrongly reasoned that because his task。
was to lead the entire nation,。
he must do it by dealing with people one at a time.。
Fourthly, Moses seemed to have assumed that no one else,。
no one else was able to do what he was doing.。
And most importantly, Moses seems to have lost sight。
of his unique gifts and calling.。
Let me repeat that.。
Moses seems to have lost sight。
of his unique gifts and calling.。
God had not called Moses to do everything,。
but to do some things.。
Moses was given responsibility。
to lead the nation of Israel as a whole.。
And therefore, his task was very different。
from that of others who could deal with people。
on a personal, intimate, one-on-one basis.。
I believe that we can gather several important principles。
of leadership from the words of Jethro。
which are addressed to Moses.。
And to help me, I want to introduce my very own Jethro.。
Not my father-in-law.。
But a wise, can I say older?。
Okay, you know we're 150 between us,。
you know, just telling you that.。
You gotta work out how that's balanced out.。
But God sent this man to me。
and to this church to impart common sense。
and generational wisdom.。
Tony will address these principles。
and their practical information.。
So let's welcome Tony.。
[audience applauding]。
>> Well, thank you.。
It's good to be here and to be able to talk on this as well.。
We need to hear now, not from Moses' problems,。
but to Jethro's advice.。
And we're gonna do that firstly by reading。
exactly what it was that Jethro said.。
So here in chapter 18, Jethro is speaking。
and he's speaking to Moses.。
And he says this.。
Listen now to me and I will give you some advice。
and may God be with you.。
You, you must be the people's representative before God。
and bring their disputes to him.。
Teach them his decrees and instructions。
and show them the way that they should live.。
But select capable men from all the people,。
men who fear God, trustworthy men who hate dishonest gain,。
and appoint them as officials over thousands,。
hundreds, fifties, and tens.。
Have them serve as judges for the people at all times.。
But for the simple cases, they can decide themselves.。
That will make your load lighter。
because they will share it with you.。
If you do this and God so commands,。
you will be able to stand the strain。
and all these people will go home satisfied.。
Now we need to just step back a moment here。
and see that what Moses was doing。
was hindering the fundamental reason。
that the people were on this journey.。
They were on this journey to seek their freedom.。
It was for freedom that they were in the desert。
and leading to that promised land.。
Jethro is sensing, quite rightly,。
that their journey of freedom。
is turning into one of resentment and exhaustion.。
I want to summarize the advice。
by bringing out four general principles of leadership.。
The first one of these。
is the principle of control and release.。
Now you might think from a quick reading of this passage。
that Jethro's advice was intended to release Moses。
and to maintain control of the people.。
But actually, it was the other way around。
because the principle role of Christian leadership。
is to lead people out of slavery and into freedom.。
In order to do this effectively,。
the leader must maintain control of themselves first。
and not the people.。
And when the leader is in control of himself or herself,。
then the people will respond and follow.。
If it's not done well,。
then the leaders will have difficulty in leading。
because of the lack of confidence。
that they perceive in the leader himself.。
And Jethro's advice to Moses。
involved a specific sort of pyramid arrangement。
of organizational model.。
And it was designed to relieve the burden on Moses, yes,。
but also to release the people into leadership.。
And that model perhaps was appropriate。
for slaves who had only experienced slavery。
in their lifetime,。
but it was not an ordained model。
that was divinely appointed。
for all Christian assemblies thereafter.。
The significant thing about Jethro's advice。
was in its outcome to restore the journey of freedom。
and not in the specific organizational model。
that he spoke about.。
So the first principle of leadership is this,。
that leaders need to be in control of themselves first。
before they can release others.。
The second principle I want to talk about。
is the principle of the servant and master.。
You see, God has given each of us giftings。
which we can use in our leadership.。
But leadership itself is not a specific gift from God。
because there are many different types of leadership.。
But Jethro provides some solid advice to Moses。
on how to exercise his specific role。
and how he should release the people into their role.。
But more importantly, he gave him some advice。
on the qualities of the people。
that he should be looking for.。
He said, "But select capable men,。
"men from all the people who secondly fear God,。
"thirdly, who are trustworthy,。
"and men who hate dishonest gain."。
And that would be the sense of having。
a sense of justice within their heart.。
And Jethro wanted to make sure that these men。
would be able to carry out their duties as servants。
and not as overlords or masters.。
We might use different wording in our Christian context,。
but these qualities of servanthood。
that he outlined are important。
no matter what sort of leadership gifting that we have.。
And it's in this context of servanthood。
that we need to work on the basic skills and gifts。
that God has given us so that we can master those gifts。
and use them well in leadership itself.。
Some leaders are gifted organizational managers.。
Some are inspirational speakers.。
Others may be knowledgeable scholars.。
Others may use authenticity。
and life experience to lead others.。
There are many ways of types of leadership。
that we can experience and use.。
But whatever type of leadership you have,。
then the second principle of leadership is this.。
Leaders are called to lead as servants of Christ。
by mastering the gifts that they have been given.。
And the third principle I want to talk to。
is that of the shepherd and the sheep.。
In a church setting, the role of the shepherd。
is to lead the flock to safe pastures。
where they can be cared for and protected.。
In doing this, she or he is providing。
a collective leadership for the flock.。
But what happens if one of the sheep。
goes astray and gets lost?。
Well, we know from our New Testament parables。
that in that occasion, the shepherd goes。
and leaves the 99 to find the one.。
But in a large church, it will be impossible。
for one leader to know each individual person。
by name and their circumstances.。
And just as Jethro suggested,。
it will be important to train up other leaders。
who can provide that important element。
of personal engagement and shepherding.。
And this is why the development of communities is important.。
In Moses' day, it was possible for him。
to use the natural structure of the tribes。
and families that existed around them.。
But in our highly mobile societies,。
we need to be much more intentional。
in developing and nurturing communities。
where people can find greater spiritual。
and relational support.。
And so at the Vine, we place great importance。
to our community groups as places。
where people can experience and learn。
and how to engage with different personalities and cultures.。
It's in that setting that we can learn。
how to support each other, sharing life together,。
and putting into practice the teachings that we receive.。
These groups are great incubators。
to learn leadership skills and to exercise our gifts。
and to grow in spiritual maturity.。
So the third principle of leadership is this.。
Shepherding is the caring and nurturing of the sheep。
so that they can in turn become the shepherds of others.。
And the fourth and final principle。
that I want to talk about。
is the principle of the one and many.。
Because at whatever level of leadership we find ourselves,。
we need to learn how to manage ourselves。
and how to manage others.。
And I'm not talking about having to get an MBA here,。
but I'm talking about the basic skills。
of organizing ourselves and our activities。
to achieve our goals.。
As our responsibilities increase,。
we will undoubtedly need to interact with others。
in teamwork and shared leadership situations。
become the requirement of the day.。
You see, leadership is rarely a solo activity。
because of the sheer complexity of the lives we lead。
and the situations that we find ourselves in.。
And at the Vine, we have many levels。
of shared leadership responsibilities.。
We practice shared leadership in our staff organization.。
We practice it in our eldership。
and in all of our ministries where possible.。
And at one time in the past,。
the church was even run by an eldership。
as a shared leadership responsibility。
without any full-time pastors at all.。
And our first full-time pastoral leadership。
was a dual appointment of John and myself。
as co-senior pastors。
in which we led the church together。
and using our complimentary gifts.。
And I say this only to emphasize。
that shared leadership is very much in our blood as a church。
and from it, we can learn so much about life and ourselves.。
So the fourth and final principle of leadership is this.。
Church leadership is seldom a solo activity.。
Practicing shared leadership together。
will produce a healthy, growing community.。
Thank you.。
(audience applauding)。
- The principles which Moses learned from Jethro。
are applicable to every Christian,。
whether he or she is a leader or not.。
So as we conclude, I wanna consider some initial steps。
which may get us started on our way。
to becoming better leaders and managers.。
Number one is simple.。
Find a Jethro.。
God gave Moses a Jethro to point out his problems.。
Fortunately, God gave me a Jethro in Tony and others.。
If you do not have such a friend, get one.。
Number two, establish a plan for both your private world。
and your public ministry。
and determine not to neglect either.。
This is big.。
Determine the priorities which will govern those things。
that you will do and those you will turn down.。
Of all the things you could do,。
seek to identify and achieve those things you should do.。
Number three, determine to facilitate。
the ministry of others, especially by encouraging。
and equipping them to do what they do best.。
In other words, begin to focus as a Jethro.。
Now, I know I've asked you just to find a Jethro,。
but begin to focus as a Jethro。
to the many Moseses around you.。
And lastly, desire to grow in faith。
and at the same time, humility.。
Faith is required to trust God to enable you。
to do what he's called you to do.。
Faith is also required to enable you to leave。
what you should not do to others.。
Humility will keep you from self-trust,。
will prevent you from taking credit。
for what God has accomplished.。
It will also enable you to resist。
the ego-flattering suggestions。
that only you are the solution to a particular problem.。
My friends, you are not able to go it alone.。
Talk to the person next to you.。
Tell them, you are not able to go it alone.。
As I ask our band to come back,。
our story has a happy ending.。
Let's see it.。
Verse 24.。
Moses listened to his father-in-law。
and did everything he said.。
Amen, let's stand up.。
(congregation laughing)。
What I wanna do now is to pray for us.。
We're just gonna have some music playing in the background.。
But this is really your time.。
As we prayed before the service,。
we had this picture of an ice cube that was melting。
and felt that really all of us need today。
to just allow God to melt away on the extremes for us.。
I'm gonna ask that God would give to you。
maybe a picture, a name of someone you need to be asked。
to be your Jephro, it may be more than one person.。
Also that God would put in your mind。
people that you need to get alongside,。
you need to encourage.。
Let's pray.。
Holy Spirit,。
we pray that you do a work in each one of our lives today.。
We thank you for this story。
of how a father-in-law。
was used by you。
to change the life of Moses。
and by definition change the life of a relation.。
Come to me now,。
Lord, and start to show me。
maybe there are things in my life。
that I'm doing that I need to stop doing.。
(gentle music)。
Lord, help me to find a Jephro。
and help me, Lord, to be a Jephro。
to the next generation.。
And as a church, Lord, we ask you。
that you would make us this church of cross generations。
(gentle music)。
Lord, how you would allow us.。
We thank you, Lord, for the young people in this church,。
the sharp end, the energy,。
the desire to get things done.。
Help us to be ones who would get around them,。
to empower them, to encourage them.。
(gentle music)。
And if necessary, show them the way.。
We thank you, Lord, for the many families。
you're raising up in this church,。
in some ways the backbone of the church.。
I pray, Lord, you'd help us。
in this area of family priorities.。
So often in Hong Kong, Lord, we let business,。
we let church, we let things that we deem to be important。
get in the way of our families.。
And we pray, Lord, that you continue to raise up。
wise people, Lord, sometimes older, sometimes not,。
but people who can just give us direction in life.。
(gentle music)。
So Holy Spirit, I just wait on you now.。
Would you speak to me?。
Would you speak to us as a church?。
And actually, would you speak to us。
as a city here in Hong Kong?。
And would you raise up Moses's and Jethro's in this city?。
Thank you that your plan for us is cross-generational.。
We pray this in Jesus' name.。
And the whole church said, amen.。
Thank you.。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
