Oh man, it's so good to be here with you.。
If you're new to the Vine, my name's Andrew.。
I'm one of the pastors here, and it's just great that we get to fellowship.。
It's great that we get to come together in a city like we live in and worship God in。
that way and just for that resurrection power to be at work in that.。
And that's my prayer for you as we open this time of just hearing from God's Word that。
you would continue to know and to understand and to feel that resurrection power in you.。
A number of years ago, I was in a work meeting.。
I was in a work meeting where I was feeling way out of my depth, way, way out of my comfort。
zone.。
I wonder if you've ever been in a work meeting like that where you realize that you're the。
dumbest person in the room.。
Anyone ever been in that moment?。
If not, you need a new job, okay?。
You need a new job.。
I was in a meeting.。
At the time, I was working for a US investment bank, and I was in this meeting room in our。
offices in Tokyo.。
Now I wasn't actually supposed to be in this meeting, but one of my colleagues had called。
in sick that morning, and my boss had asked me to represent them in this meeting.。
And the reason why I was incredibly nervous, sweaty and shaky kind of nervous, was that。
this meeting was with four of the top bankers, investment bankers in our bank in the whole。
of Asia.。
These four people were well known to everybody who worked in the bank.。
They were revered, and they were feared.。
I realized just before the meeting, I was thinking about this.。
I was thinking their combined net worth was probably higher than the GDP of some small。
Asian countries.。
I mean, these were very powerful people.。
I was just 24 years old at the time.。
I didn't really know anything, and I was subbing in for a colleague into this meeting that。
I really had no preparation for.。
I made sure that I got to that meeting super early.。
That was a meeting that I was not going to be late to, right?。
So I get there super early.。
I go into this room, big, huge conference room, massive conference table.。
And I'm trying to go, "Okay, where do I sit on this table that would be the best for when。
these people arrive?"。
And I'm looking at the table, and I decide I'm going to sit right down in the middle。
of this long conference table.。
That'll give people the chance to kind of sit around me when they come in, and we'll。
all be gathered in the center of the table.。
Well about five minutes of me just sitting there, kind of sweaty and a bit shaky, these。
four men walk into the room.。
They all come in together about five minutes late, and they're chatting kind of like in。
loud voices together, and that kind of confident tone that people who have incredible power。
and incredible wealth sort of hold.。
And I'm sitting there thinking, "Oh my gosh, this is literally the worst day of my life."。
And as they come in, they sit on the far other end of the conference table, and they sit。
down just the four of them at the head of the table, and I could realize that they had。
no idea there was somebody else in the room.。
Or if they knew it, they were just plain ignoring me.。
And they keep on chatting together, and after a little while, one of them looks up, and。
he stares at me, and perhaps for the first time, they realize that there's somebody else。
in the room, and he says this.。
He goes, "Who are you?"。
It's a great way to start a meeting, right?。
"Who are you?"。
And I'm like, "I'm Andrew.。
I'm Miko's replacement.。
She's sick today, so I'm in this meeting with you."。
And they kind of just stared at me, all four of them.。
And then they turned around and started chatting together again.。
And they weren't even chatting about what we were supposed to be talking about in the。
meeting.。
They were just chatting amongst themselves.。
And as I sat there, really awkward, I listened in to what they were talking about.。
They were talking about the state of the world, and most specifically, actually, they were。
talking about the state of humanity, which was really quite fascinating.。
These four bankers were talking about the state of humanity, and I realized after a。
little while that they were having a debate amongst themselves, and two of them were arguing。
one position, and the other two were arguing the other.。
Two of them were basically saying humanity is essentially sick, that the human condition。
is essentially sick, and humanity is in need of a doctor.。
And if humanity can work out what it needs to help itself, then humanity can get better,。
and perhaps in the future, it might be able to thrive.。
The other two bankers were arguing the opposite.。
They were saying, "No, no, humanity is not sick.。
Humanity is well.。
Humanity essentially is good.。
Look at our intelligence.。
Look at our wisdom.。
Look at the gifts and the talents that humans have.。
Look through human history and the amazing ways that humans have done things in this。
world."。
They were just saying, "Look, humanity is well.。
It doesn't need a doctor.。
It needs opportunity.。
And the more opportunity that's created for humanity, the best, the fittest, and the best。
will emerge to the top, and they'll lead the world into a better future."。
And they were arguing back and forth.。
"Humanity is sick.。
Humanity is well.。
Humanity is sick.。
Humanity is well."。
And I'm sitting there, and after a while, about five minutes of this, one of them turns。
to me and he goes, "Miko's replacement."。
Doesn't even say Andrew, right?。
He's like, "Miko's replacement.。
What do you think?。
Do you think humanity is essentially sick and in need of a doctor, or do you think humanity。
is essentially well and just needs some opportunity?"。
All four of them are staring at me to see what I say.。
And this is like the worst position you can be in, right?。
Because whatever I answer, whichever side I take, I'm going to offend at least two of。
these powerful people in the room, right?。
So I'm like, "Is there a right answer here?"。
And I'm trying to desperately work out, "What's the answer that they are wanting me to say?"。
And as I'm trying to think about that, the Holy Spirit speaks to me.。
And the Holy Spirit, out of nowhere, says this to me.。
He says, "What would the Apostle Paul say to that question?"。
I wonder if you've ever been in a situation where you didn't want God to speak to you?。
Anyone been in that kind of, anyone been in that sort of situation where God says something。
to your spirit and you're like, "Not now, God.。
I'll get back to being a Christian after this meeting, okay?。
I don't want to interact with you right now.。
I'm trying to save my career with these four very powerful people."。
And God said again, "What would the Apostle Paul say to that question?"。
And I remember this real quick prayer as these guys are watching me.。
I remember saying, "Lord, if I say that, they will probably fire me.。
I will lose my job and my wife will leave me."。
I'm catastrophizing at this point.。
And here's what the Holy Spirit said, "If you believe what the Apostle Paul taught,。
then you should say it."。
So I look up at these four men who are staring at me, and I say, "I actually think there's。
a third option.。
I actually don't think that humanity is sick and in need of a doctor.。
I don't think humanity is well and in need of opportunity.。
I think actually humanity's dead and in need of resurrection."。
They did not clap.。
In fact, the four of them just stared at me for what felt like a really long time.。
And then they started to talk together and ignored me the rest of the meeting.。
They obviously thought I was some religious nut.。
And I suddenly in that moment realized that for the first time in my life, I truly resonated。
with what Paul says.。
I knew in that moment that my career was dead and desperately in need of resurrection.。
You may understand now that I am no longer a banker.。
I'm a pastor.。
That is my story.。
It's an interesting thing, though.。
This idea that humanity is spiritually dead and in need of resurrection, it's not a very。
popular one in modern cultural society.。
Fascinatingly, actually, it's not a very popular one even in a lot of churches.。
Because it's easier to tell people that humanity's just sick, a little bit sick and in need of。
a doctor.。
And if you get the right amount of self-help and the right amount of exercise and the right。
amount of positive thinking, if you read my latest book that I've written on leadership。
abilities to you, you'll be able to thrive and flourish as best as possible.。
It's easier to tell people that.。
It's easier, in fact, to tell them that, "No, actually, you're well.。
You're fantastic.。
That everything you should ever need for future prosperity is found within you.。
You just need to try harder.。
You just need to do this.。
You need to read this," or whatever it might be.。
It's actually easy to tell people that they're essentially well and they just need better。
opportunity.。
"Oh, if you had better opportunity, if you had better circumstances in life, everything。
would be fine for you."。
It's not easy to actually represent biblical truth, to actually represent how the scriptures。
speak about the human condition because it's challenging, because it puts us in a bit of。
an awkward space and it asks some really big questions about us.。
And when the Apostle Paul is writing to his church in Ephesus and he's trying to communicate。
to them the heart of the Father, he's trying to communicate what God's will is in the world,。
he's trying to pray for them and show them the power that is put aside for them in a。
God who has been raised from death to life and now is the name that is above every name。
and that every knee is going to bow under that as he's talking about all these incredible。
things.。
He comes to the second chapter and he says, "Now I want to talk about you.。
I want you to understand who you are and what your condition is."。
Because if you can understand the human condition, then you can actually understand in a new。
way the profundity and the power and the wonder and the majesty of the gospel.。
Because when we understand who we are, we begin to get a different revelation of the。
work that Christ has done for us and we cannot step back and say, "Hallelujah!"。
Because we realize that it's not about us trying to fix ourselves, but we are literally。
dead and in need of resurrection.。
And when the one who comes to bring resurrection comes, we find ourselves in a posture of humble。
gratitude and thankfulness and an infused life so that we can actually begin to live。
in the way that we were truly created to be.。
We have to journey through death to receive life.。
And Paul writes to the church about this.。
These are some of the most famous words that Paul writes in any of his letters in the New。
Testament.。
I'm going to read this to you in a minute and you're going to recognize a bunch of these。
things, themes and ideas and a theology that is very familiar to us if you've been coming。
to church for a while.。
It's so familiar to you.。
But I pray that as we unpack this a little bit together as a community today, you'll。
come to a deeper understanding about the reality of what it is that Christ has done for you。
and that those dead things that we've been talking about so far on the surface, that。
in those dead areas you might believe again that they could come to resurrected life.。
Let me read this to you from Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1.。
As for you, notice this, you were dead, not sick, not well, you were dead in your transgressions。
and sins in which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world and of the。
ruler of the kingdom of the air, the spirit who is now at work in those who are disobedient.。
All of us lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature and following。
its desires and thoughts.。
Like the rest, we were by nature, notice that, by nature objects of wrath.。
But because of his great love for us, God who is rich in mercy made us now alive with。
Christ even when we were dead in our transgressions, for it is by grace that you have been saved.。
And God has raised us up with Christ and now has seated us in the heavenly realms in Christ。
Jesus in order that in the coming ages he might show the incomparable riches of his。
grace expressed in his kindness to us in Christ Jesus.。
For it is by grace that you have been saved, through faith.。
And this not for a work in yourself, for it is the gift of God, not by works so that you。
cannot boast.。
For we are God's workmanship, created in Christ Jesus to do good works which God prepared。
in advance for us to do.。
Father, I just pray that as we open your word here, you would move by your spirit, that。
there would be a demonstration of your spirit's power and that for some people in this room。
who right now feel they are dead, that they would be brought to life, Lord.。
And I pray for areas in our lives where we're looking for you to move, you would, through。
your word.。
And we pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, "Paul doesn't mince his words.。
He speaks direct to his church because he wants them to understand who they were before。
they met Christ and now what Christ has done in and through them."。
And what I want to do with us just over the next number of minutes here is I want to actually。
map out for you how Paul presents this.。
Because the gospel presented in this way is such a profound realization for his people。
and he wants them to journey through these 10 verses from a place of death to resurrection.。
So the first three verses, he starts with this profound thing.。
He says, "We have to understand that we were dead."。
Again, not sick, in a need of a doctor, not well, in a need of some opportunity.。
Literally when it came to the spirit, when it comes to our soul, humanity is dead.。
The word that he uses in the Greek here in these three verses, the way that it's phrased,。
he's talking about absolute and universal.。
He's not just saying, "Hey, some people are dead."。
He's not just saying the really bad people, the really evil people, the people like Hitler,。
they're the dead ones.。
He's saying all of us.。
No one escapes the reality that because of what happened in the garden, because although。
Christ created humanity well and good in Genesis 1 and 2 and blessed them, in Genesis 3 they。
chose to take of that fruit that they were told not to.。
In that, the disobedience of sin and rebellion came into the human spirit.。
And basically from that point onwards, humanity has been dead in its soul.。
And it's dead and crying out for new life.。
And so Paul's starting point for his church is to understand that there was a time where。
in the transgressions and their sin, they found themselves dead.。
In fact, in unpacking this idea of death, he says there are three things in these three。
verses, three things that have been at work to cause us to die.。
He says it's the world, he said it's the devil, and he said it's flesh.。
He says we are in the world and the ways of the world have been acting upon us.。
For Paul, this is the area of something that is outside of us, something that is without。
us, outside of us, acting upon us.。
And he's basically saying that the world and its cultures and its brokenness and this depravity。
of sin that's working through the world's cultures and the world's systems is keeping。
you dead.。
It's wanting you to follow its way of thinking, but that is not the right way of thinking.。
There is a third way.。
And he's saying that there is this death that is there.。
He then speaks about the devil.。
He says the ruler of the kingdom of air.。
It's a beautiful phrase from him, a ruler of the kingdom of the air.。
This is the reality of evil.。
He says evil is present in this world and we can't shy away from the fact that there。
is good, yes, but there is also evil and this evil is beyond us.。
It's beyond anything that we could ever think or imagine.。
It's out there in the world and there is a ruler of the kingdom of the air and that is。
at work.。
And his spirit is also causing us to become disobedient, he teaches.。
He then says that all of us at some point, we have had these cravings inside of us to。
satisfy, to gratify our sinful nature.。
In other places he uses this word flesh.。
It's just the idea of our sinful brokenness and this is within us.。
So he's saying without us, in other words, what is around, he's saying beyond us is evil。
that is there in the world.。
He's saying within us are brokenness and our sin and transgressions that are within us.。
These three things mean that we in our soul, the thing that is eternal in our spirit, we're。
dead.。
He's not saying, "Hey, humans can't do anything good."。
He's not saying that humans don't have the ability to be kind or to be loving or to be。
selfless or to be generous.。
He's not speaking about just the behavioral stuff we do.。
He's talking about the soul.。
He's talking about our spiritual soul and he's saying that is dead.。
Before you met Christ, that's the only way to think about it.。
Are you following this?。
That's the first three verses.。
He's like, "You've got to make sure you're starting in the right place."。
But then he actually goes and says in verses four to seven, but he says, "You, we are now。
alive.。
We've been made alive in Christ."。
The beautiful phrase.。
He's like, "Even when we were dead."。
Notice this.。
"Even when we were dead in our transgressions, Christ came and paid the price, life, death,。
and resurrection, so that we now are made alive," is the phrase he uses, "made alive。
in Christ."。
That's the same phrase he uses in other places.。
Sometimes it's translated, "Resurrected in Christ."。
It's profound what Paul's doing here because he's just spent a bunch of verses in chapter。
one, unpacking the idea of what God did in Christ.。
That Christ, in submitting himself to the will of his Father, went to the cross, paid。
the price for sin, went into death, but was raised from death to life, then became the。
name that is above every name that every ruler and power and authority needs to submit now。
under the authority of Christ.。
Christ is now in this place.。
And actually, Paul has just written in chapter one that Christ now sits at the right hand。
of the Father in the heavenly realms, and that at the name of Jesus, every knee will。
bow on heaven and earth.。
And all of this is happening for the glory of the church.。
So he's just unpacked this beautiful picture of Jesus' journey from death to resurrection.。
Now at the beginning of chapter two, he flips it onto us.。
He says, "You need to understand the journey you've been in, because you were once dead,。
just like Christ.。
But you have, through his Spirit, been raised from death to life."。
And then he takes it a step further.。
This blows my mind.。
He says, "And not only that, not only has he raised you, but you are now seated," he。
says, "in this area that he calls the heavenly realms."。
I want you to just get your head around this for a moment.。
We're not just resurrected in Christ, but we are now raised up to the heavenly realms,。
and we sit with Christ in the heavenly realms.。
The picture is one of relationship, one of friendship, one of camaraderie, sitting together.。
It's a picture of relaxation and not stress.。
When you're sitting with the one who has all authority over everything in the world, we。
find ourselves in shalom, peace.。
And Paul's saying, "This is what those who are in Christ Jesus, you are spiritually sitting。
with Christ in the heavenly realms, at the right hand of the Father with Christ."。
In other words, all of the power that he had spoken about in the prayer that we looked。
at last week and that I was preaching about last week, all of that power is now found。
in us spiritually because we are at the right hand of the Father as well, seated with Christ.。
It blows our minds.。
Now I want you to see what Paul's doing here in saying this.。
He wants to draw this contrast between the lowest possible thing, you are literally dead,。
to the highest possible thing, you are now seated in Christ Jesus on the right hand of。
the Father in the Spirit.。
Isn't that beautiful?。
And for Paul, the reason why he's saying this, because he wants us to understand that there。
are only two types of human beings, those who are dead and those who are seated with。
Christ in the heavenly realms, just two.。
Those who are spiritually dead and those who are alive and been made alive in Christ and。
are seated at the right hand of the Father.。
This is hope.。
But in this, Paul is saying, "Do you want to know how this happens?。
Do you want to know?"。
Because guess what?。
Like Ezekiel, when God says to him, "Can these bones live?"。
Ezekiel's response is, "Sovereign Lord, only you know."。
And it's the same in humanity.。
Can we live when we've been soaked in the travesty of our transgressions and sins?。
Only you, Lord, know.。
Only you can bring this dead thing to life.。
This is why in verses 8 and 9, Paul explains how that process takes place, how new life。
comes.。
And he says, "This is why you've been saved by grace through faith, not by your own works,。
so that no one can boast."。
He talks about a negative and a positive as he's trying to speak about this beauty of。
the gospel.。
First of all, he starts with the negative.。
He says there's this thing called works, our human works, the things that we are trying。
to do to maybe try to be better people.。
He's saying, "You've got to understand that this cannot ever save you, that salvation。
is not about what we can do.。
And this is countercultural to what we see in society."。
I want to challenge us that it's countercultural to what we see in Hong Kong, because Hong。
Kong is literally built on a culture of meritocracy, on a culture of if you try really hard, if。
you work really hard, if you become the best student in your class, you can get certain。
things, if you go to the right kind of universities, you can get the right kind of jobs.。
And our thinking always in the world around us is, "If I do more, I will get more."。
Are you with me?。
And Paul doesn't want his church in Ephesus to bring that into their thinking about their。
spirit or into their thinking about their relationship with God.。
If I do more, I'm going to get more.。
And he cuts it out right at the start.。
And he says, "You're not saved by anything you do.。
You cannot ever do enough to earn your salvation," he's saying.。
And this is important because he's basically said to us, "You're dead.。
Dead things don't do anything, by the way."。
You want to know why works doesn't save you?。
It's because you're dead.。
And if you're dead, you can't do anything.。
That's number one.。
Number two is this, even if you could do something, your greatest moral acts will always pale。
into insignificance to the righteousness of Christ.。
No matter how great we could be, no matter how much we could do, no matter how much we。
could do for charity, how nice of a person we could be, how much love we could give,。
it would always pale in significance to the righteousness that is found in Christ.。
When we try to compare our righteousness with the righteousness of Christ, pride fills us。
and we're heading towards more and more sin.。
And Paul's saying, "Your works, both because you're dead, you can't do in any way, but。
even if you could do them, they wouldn't even compare to the righteousness found in Christ.。
None of that is going to get you anywhere, so no one can boast."。
This is really important.。
In the Greek and Roman culture, boasting was a huge thing.。
We'll talk more about that in another week, but even here in Hong Kong, boasting is a。
big thing still, isn't it?。
Oh, no, it's not.。
Okay.。
It's not about the car I drive, the watch I wear, the clothes I have, the university。
that my kids have gone to.。
We love to boast, I think, all the time.。
Could you imagine what church would be like if we actually earned our salvation?。
Have you ever stopped and thought about that for a moment?。
Can you imagine what church would be like if all of us earned our way into heaven?。
Number one, most of us would not be in this room, myself included.。
Number two, those of us that did get in, we'd be like, "Whoa, we got in."。
And no one else did.。
We're the cool ones.。
We're the lucky ones.。
We're the great ones.。
We're the awesome ones.。
Paul's like, "There is no room for that kind of mental thinking or that attitude within。
the church.。
No, you are all dead, even in your transgressions and sin.。
But when you were dead, Christ raised you from death to life, not because you did anything。
so that no one could boast, so that no other name other than the name of Jesus would be。
heard in the world.。
Not a name of a church, a name of a preacher, a name of a worship leader, a name of a song,。
not anything like that.。
The only thing that gets to be projected in this world is Christ.。
That's why our works don't save us," Paul's saying.。
So you're not saved by works.。
He says this, "You're saved simply by this incredible idea of grace."。
Grace, this Greek word means unmerited favor, this idea of a gift.。
This idea of a gift that we have, and we talked about this quite a lot at the Vine, we have。
not earned and we have not deserved.。
We actually sing about that quite a bit as well.。
We have not earned it.。
We have not deserved it.。
But we have this incredible grace from God.。
And here's the reason Paul is saying that it is not deserved or earned.。
It is not deserved because you're dead.。
It is not earned because none of your works could ever get you there.。
That's grace.。
And he's saying that this grace is at work in this world.。
And that you, because you have experienced that grace in you, you are now living examples。
of that grace.。
And Paul is mapping out this beautiful picture because he wants his church to understand。
the journey that they've been on, but also the journey that others could go on as well.。
Because Christ has gone to the cross, Paul is saying, and he's paid the price for sin,。
and he's been raised from death to life, and he now sits at the right hand of the Father.。
And anyone who comes to believe in him, anyone who asks for the forgiveness of sins, who。
confesses the name of Jesus, they also can be saved.。
Anyone.。
Now this is not universalism.。
Christ has done it on the cross, therefore everybody's saved, and it doesn't matter what。
you do in life.。
No, Paul breaks the idea of universalism with one simple phrase in the passage here in verse。
8 and 9.。
He says, "Through faith."。
It's a really important little phrase he says.。
We are saved by grace, not by our works, through faith.。
In other words, there is something we as humanity do to align ourselves to the work of the cross.。
It's not some universalism where Christ has died for all, and it doesn't matter what you。
do.。
No, we align ourselves.。
We receive the power of the work of the cross.。
We receive the power of resurrection life through faith.。
Through recognizing that Christ has done this, and moving in that.。
For Paul, the definition of faith is two things.。
It is both belief and trust.。
Is this helping anyone so far?。
Both belief and trust.。
And both of those things are important.。
Sometimes we think faith is just about belief.。
As long as I can believe the right things, then everything's going to be okay.。
For Paul, if you look throughout his letters, it's belief and trust.。
Those two things work hand in hand.。
Give you an example of this.。
A number of years ago, I was at university in a place called Durham in the northeast。
of England.。
Durham has this beautiful river that runs through the center of the town, and there。
are some high, maybe 40 feet or so cliffs that are around it, and then the river weaves。
through the town.。
At university, there's this thing called Freshers' Week.。
It probably happened at your university too, where all the new people come to the university,。
and parties are held, and bands play.。
In my time, weird as it sounds, there was a circus.。
They had a circus at the university to welcome in all the new people.。
One of the circus acts was the tightrope walking thing.。
On one day, this guy strung a metal wire across the two sides of the cliff face over the river,。
and he walked from one side to the other on this small little tightrope.。
It was amazing.。
There were many of us in the crowd that day watching this guy walk from one side to the。
other.。
We thought halfway across he was going to fall.。
He would shake, but no.。
He got from one side to the other.。
We were cheering him when he got to the other side.。
When he got to the other side, he did this crazy thing.。
He took a colleague from the circus, a light person.。
They weren't that heavy.。
He put him up on his shoulders, and then he walked back the other way with this guy on。
his shoulders.。
It was one of the most amazing things I've ever seen.。
I can't believe that he's doing this with a guy on his shoulders.。
We surely thought he was going to die every step of the way, but he got there to the other。
side.。
When he got to the other side, we were cheering.。
We were screaming.。
This was the coolest thing we'd ever seen.。
As the guy gets off his shoulders, the guy who just walked across, he points to somebody。
in the crowd.。
He goes, "Do you believe that I could do this with you?"。
The guy in the crowd was trying to shrink away.。
He said what I think all of us were feeling in that moment.。
He was like, "Well, I believe you can do it because I've just seen you do it, but I don't。
know if I would trust you to do it."。
This is faith.。
It's more than just the belief that Jesus died and rose again.。
It's trusting your life to him and entrusting, trusting that he will carry you from here。
to here.。
So, Paul, what he's trying to do is help everybody to go, "Okay, this is the journey.。
You are dead in your sin-induced transgressions because of the world, because of the devil,。
because of the flesh, but you have been raised to new life in Christ through faith.。
That new life leads you into the heavenly realms where you're now seated at the right。
hand of the Father.。
This is not done for you by works.。
No, it's done for you only by grace that is found in Christ Jesus.。
And in that grace, undeserved, unmerited by you, through faith, your belief and trust。
that Jesus indeed died for your sins and rose again, you are able to also now no longer。
be stuck in the death of your soul, but you can find new life through Christ Jesus.。
For it is by grace that you have been saved in faith."。
And this, not something that you have accomplished.。
"For if it was by your works, you would boast.。
This is a work of the Spirit," Paul says.。
Isn't that amazing?。
Nobody thinks that that's amazing.。
Is that amazing?。
That's the gospel.。
Now, here's the crazy thing.。
Paul doesn't stop there.。
He has one more verse.。
I want you to read this because this is one of the most famous verses that we have in。
Ephesians.。
"For we are God's workmanship," Paul says, "created in Christ Jesus to do good works,。
which God prepared in advance for us to do."。
This is how he wraps it all up.。
He says, "Now that you understand the journey that there is in going from death to the fullness。
of life through Christ by His grace, you have to realize now that you, therefore, are God's。
workmanship," is the phrase he uses.。
The Greek word is the word poiema.。
It actually is the word that we translate into the English word poem.。
Paul's like, "You are God's poem," that He's written something for the world to see in。
and through you.。
When he says, "You are God's workmanship," he's not talking about that first moment of。
your creation.。
Elsewhere in the Bible, it says that you were knitted and made in your mother's womb, and。
that's an amazing thing, but that's not what Paul's speaking about here.。
When he says that you are a workmanship of God, what he's speaking about is everything。
that he's just said in the passage.。
He's talking about the fact that you have been transformed and renewed.。
Elsewhere, he says that when you're in Christ Jesus, you're a new creation.。
The old is gone, the new has come.。
This is his phrase for it here in Ephesians.。
You are God's workmanship.。
Another way of saying it, you are a masterpiece of art, that Christ has changed your life,。
literally taken you from death to life, and He has done that for you by His grace, and。
you now are a living embodiment of the grace of Christ in your life.。
That's awesome, he's saying.。
You're a masterpiece, a masterpiece of the grace of God, and because you're a masterpiece,。
you shouldn't shy yourself away.。
You should hang yourselves in the galleries of this world.。
You should be in the marketplace.。
You should be in society.。
You should be in your families.。
You should be in your workplaces.。
You should be influencing everything out there because you are a work of art.。
You're a masterpiece on display for all the world to see, he's saying.。
Michelangelo, one of the great sculptors, once was chipping away at a shapeless rock,。
and somebody asked him what he was doing, and his reply was this, "I am liberating an。
angel from this stone."。
And I think if you were to say to Paul, "How would you help people to understand what Christ。
has done in them?"。
He would say, "He has liberated you from the stone of death, and He has shaped and formed。
you into someone who can now live, and live in a way that would show the world the glory。
of Christ."。
So he says, "There is a work that Christ has done in you so that you can now be a work。
in the world."。
It's not the works of salvation that we've just talked about, because we know that those。
works are not what it's about.。
This is a new work that we can now do, not one that earns us salvation, but one that。
shows the world the grace of salvation.。
So he says, "You go now and do that.。
You go be Christ in the world, His hands and His feet and His grace, living as this embodiment。
of a different narrative.。
You are Miko's replacement, sat in a room, and when the narratives of the world are presented,。
you have the courage to say that there's a third way, that you have a testimony in your。
life of a life that has been changed by the grace of Christ."。
If we were to summarize Paul, we'd say it this way, "What you are is a gift of God.。
What you now do is your gift to Him.。
You're a gift by grace, because He loves you, and out of love and mercy, He has changed。
and transformed you.。
Now how you live matters."。
Just a little bit further on, we'll see this in a few weeks' time, Paul will say, "Live。
a life worthy of that calling."。
He challenges his church.。
Live a life worthy.。
That's what he's saying here too.。
You're God's workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works.。
I love the way that Erwin McManus puts it.。
He says, "You're not just a work of art, but you are also artist at work."。
So if you're a painter, paint.。
If you're a writer, write.。
If you're a teacher, educate and teach.。
If you're a banker, bank.。
If you're a lawyer, if you're a lawyer, I pray for you, if you're a lawyer, judge fairly.。
If you work for the government, lead humbly and diligently.。
Whatever it is that is before you, do it in a way that honors and glorifies Christ, because。
you are no longer dead.。
He can bring the dead things and bring them to life.。
My prayer for you is that you would go from here today filled with this joy in your heart,。
that you have been one who has been chosen by Him in grace.。
And in your faith and trust and belief in Him, you have aligned yourselves to the forgiveness。
that was there on the cross, a forgiveness that sets your soul free, so you can now live。
as you were truly created to be.。
May you feel the wind in the Spirit upon you, as you be who you have been created to be,。
in the spirit of influence He has placed you in.。
For you have been saved by grace, not by works, so that you cannot boast, but through faith,。
so that you as God's workmanship may be released to good works.。
Can I pray for you?。
Let's pray.。
Father, we're so grateful for the people in this room, people that you love deeply and。
dearly, people that you have saved by a gracious act.。
Father, I pray for anyone in this room who perhaps is just exploring faith in this time.。
Maybe spirituality is a new thing for them.。
And Lord, maybe they're exploring what it is to explore the truths and the beliefs of。
Scripture.。
Father, I pray for anyone here that is in that camp, I just pray, Lord, that today they。
would feel the encouragement and the challenge of your Word.。
You love them so much.。
It is out of your love and your mercy, as Paul writes in this passage, that you can。
take them from death to life, and the kind of life that they have never felt or never。
lived before.。
Lord, I pray for anyone in this room where that's resonating with them now, for the first。
time, I pray, Lord, that they would reach out to you today.。
Maybe they would talk with the person that they've come from, or maybe they would come。
up and chat with us as a team after the service, and we can help you.。
But if you want to give your life to Jesus, it's really a simple thing.。
You just, in a simple prayer, just come before Him and ask Him to be your Lord and Savior.。
You confess those sins in you that have kept you dead spiritually, as we've been talking。
about today, and you, through belief and trust in Him, thank Him for forgiving your sin and。
giving you new life.。
And then you can just simply pray and ask for His Spirit to help you, to walk with you。
and strengthen you.。
I want to encourage you to do that.。
Do that with the person you came with.。
Come up to us afterwards.。
We'll do that with you personally.。
But I guess that there are many of us in this room where we are already Christian.。
I pray that today would be an important reminder for you of the grace that has been in your。
story.。
And I pray out of that grace, you would leave here today with a bounce in your step, wanting。
to live that grace life publicly before a broken and tired and needy world.。
That you would realize again that you are God's workmanship.。
You've been created in Christ Jesus for good works.。
My prayer for you is that you would walk out those works in whatever spirit of influence,。
whatever gifts and talents that He has placed upon you, would come to the fore in your life。
so that Jesus' grace would win many others from death to life.。
Lord, we thank you for this.。
In Jesus' name, everyone says.。
Would you stand with me and we're just going to respond together in a time of worship as。
we just let the Holy Spirit continue to just minister with us.。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
