We pray in Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
Let's look at this first picture.。
This is Immaculée Ilebagiza.。
In 1994, she was a university student in Rwanda.。
During the Rwanda genocide,。
the genocide found its way to her village.。
During this time, a pastor grabbed Immaculée。
and seven other women and hid them in his en suite bathroom.。
It was a small room, four foot by three foot.。
He moved his dresser to hide the door,。
and it was there they stayed for 91 days。
in order to survive the genocide.。
After the genocide was over,。
Immaculée found herself standing in front of the very person。
who killed her own mother and her brothers.。
And she said the words, "I forgive you."。
She later went on to be an advocate for reconciliation,。
going on to speak all over the world.。
And when asked about this encounter。
with this man who murdered her family, she said this,。
"I believe that we can heal Rwanda and our world。
"by healing one heart at a time."。
This next photo was taken in 1983.。
This is Pope John Paul II。
visiting Mehmet Ali Aksa in his jail cell.。
Two years before this, Mehmet attempted。
to assassinate the pope,。
shooting at him multiple rounds in St. Peter's Square.。
Two of those bullets hit the pope.。
While suffering severe blood loss,。
the pope was able to survive.。
He made a full recovery, and when he was able to,。
about a year and a half later,。
he decided to go visit Mehmet in his jail cell。
to offer him forgiveness face to face.。
This was the picture of that conversation.。
27 years after this conversation,。
it was the pope himself who advocated for Mehmet。
to be pardoned and released from jail.。
In fact, at the end of his life, near the end of his life,。
Mehmet was quoted as saying, "The pope is my friend.。
"The very man he tried to kill."。
This next photo is a picture of me with my own son.。
I had the rare opportunity to spend a full day with him。
as my elder son was going on a school trip,。
so we were planning what to do,。
and he only asked for one thing,。
"Take me to Universal Studios."。
And I was like, at this point,。
we were in Singapore for about three years now,。
so we've been many times, okay?。
Universal Studios in Singapore is not even that big,。
especially when one of the major areas being renovated,。
so I was like, "Buddy, we've gone a lot,。
"it's very expensive, let's do something else."。
I see some people, "Pfft."。
Visibly sad, my son gives me a hug,。
and he says, "It's okay, Dad."。
Now, my son's 10, okay?。
I didn't know he knew verse psychology.。
I didn't know that he accessed Jedi mind trick powers,。
but where was that picture taken?。
Universal Studios.。
(audience laughing)。
On the Transformers ride.。
Forgiveness has the power to change a country.。
Forgiveness has the power to change a man.。
Forgiveness has the power to change people's decisions,。
and in the case of our Lord Jesus Christ,。
forgiveness has the power to change history.。
Today, I'll be continuing our forgiveness sermon series,。
and I'll be looking at the more practical side。
of what forgiveness is.。
Why don't you join me as I pray before we really start?。
Jesus, let the words of my mouth。
and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight,。
O Lord, my rock and redeemer.。
Amen, amen.。
Right, as introduced, I am super excited。
to be back here at the Vine.。
So yes, I know some of you, but I don't know a lot of you,。
so I do wanna introduce myself again.。
Yes, my name is Derek, I'm based in Singapore.。
I work for a company called Momenta Group,。
and I primarily function as an executive coach。
and a corporate trainer, and more recently,。
I'm in charge of our sales team in Singapore.。
I had a lot more to say about this,。
but Ellison told me, "Stop talking。
"about all this stuff that you do."。
Sorry that I have a job after pastoring.。
Jeez.。
He's praying for me to not be successful。
so I can come back to the Vine.。
Anyway, so yes, I was a pastor, though,。
and that's more relevant to everyone here today.。
From 2003 to 2010, I had the honor of pastoring。
our young adults at 180, and a lot of the people。
that I pastored then are currently in leadership。
here at this church, and it's an honor。
to see a lot of you here still now.。
2010, 2014, I went to seminary.。
Yes, I served as a pastor, and then I went to seminary.。
That's kinda how we rolled back then at the Vine.。
Not anymore, not anymore.。
I guarantee you we're different now.。
2014, I returned to serve under a young man。
named Andrew Gardner and help pastor this church,。
and I joined with Pastor Carlo。
to form the pastoral leadership team.。
In 2019, I felt the Lord called me to focus primarily。
on executive coaching and corporate training,。
so that's when I was last here to speak here.。
So I have a deep, deep history with this church.。
This is my home church.。
In fact, in February 2001, I became a Christian。
at my very first Vine service, so this is home to me.。
You all are home to me, and I celebrate you all。
from Singapore, and it is an honor to be back.。
So pastoral team, oh, not pastoral, all right,。
Carlo and Allison, thank you for having me back.。
And of course, Andrew, I just wanna say。
I love you and I miss you.。
We're doing fine.。
Don't worry about us.。
I know he's gonna watch to make sure I'm。
preaching from the Bible and all that stuff.。
So, hi, Andrew.。
Okay, so let's get going.。
So for those of you that need it,。
I'm gonna just share a roadmap for what I'm gonna do,。
'cause some people really, ah, what are we talking about?。
Where are we?。
So I'm gonna look at what is forgiveness.。
I'm gonna look at what is not forgiveness.。
I'm gonna talk about why we should forgive,。
how do we forgive, and then I'm gonna do。
a kind of a now what at the end, okay?。
So this is our roadmap.。
This is where we're gonna go.。
So firstly, what is forgiveness?。
And before I start this in earnest,。
my mandate was to not give the kind of。
biblical foundation of forgiveness.。
Pastor Promise did that last week,。
and if you haven't done that,。
please go listen to it if you haven't done so.。
And if you are wondering, Promise,。
when I was, Promise came to us as an intern.。
He came onto my team.。
He's not here, so I can talk about him.。
So he now has taken my role, my title, and my haircut.。
So, you know, just give him some love.。
He's wondering if it's a midlife crisis.。
It absolutely is.。
So just help pray for your pastors.。
They need it.。
So please listen to that sermon if you haven't done so.。
That's the biblical understanding.。
So I'm going to give more of a practical one.。
So, and from apart from scripture。
and our shared experience as believers,。
there's actually been a lot of academic research。
on forgiveness, and really, it's incredible。
what the transformative power of forgiveness is.。
And before we get into that part,。
I must say that I am not a therapist, okay?。
I'm not actually a certified therapist,。
but what I am is I have over 13 years。
of pastoral experience and in counseling.。
I also am a certified executive coach since 2011,。
and I myself have been through years of counseling.。
So I come at it from a type of practitioner,。
and I'm also a client, you know?。
So I have a lot of experience in this.。
So let's look at what forgiveness is.。
The American Psychological Association, the APA,。
puts it like this, and I really want you。
to open your mind to what the secular,。
clinical description is.。
It's fascinating.。
Let's look at what forgiveness is.。
Forgiveness involves willfully putting aside。
feelings of resentment towards someone。
who has committed a wrong, been unfair,。
or hurtful, or otherwise harmed you in some way.。
Forgiveness is not merely accepting what happened。
or ceasing to be angry.。
Rather, it involves a voluntary transformation。
of your feelings, attitude, and behavior。
so that you are no longer dominated by resentment。
and can express compassion, generosity, or the like。
toward the person who wronged you.。
This is the clinical description of what forgiveness is.。
So if you break this down, there is a lot happening, right?。
Here, you have to willingfully decide,。
I am going to put aside resentment, right?。
I am going to decide to willfully put that aside.。
It's not just stopping to be angry.。
There is a decision that I was being full of resentment。
and anger, but now I'm not going to access that anymore.。
But then there's the second part of transforming。
those feelings, and attitudes, and behaviors。
into something else, compassion, generosity, and the like.。
So forgiveness, there's this both internal transformation,。
but there's also an external one as well.。
There's a lot happening in this phrase。
that we say to forgive someone.。
And actually, in my preparation, I came across a number。
of different adaptations of this,。
and for today's purposes, I came across another one。
which I think you'll find very interesting.。
There are two therapists, Enright and Fitzgibbons,。
and they wrote a book, "Forgiveness Therapy,。
"An Empirical Guide for Resolving Anger and Restoring Hope."。
Fascinating title, and I'm working my way through this book.。
But I want you to hear their definition of forgiveness.。
A willingness to abandon one's right to resentment,。
negative judgment, and indifferent behavior。
towards the one who unjustly injured us,。
while fostering the undeserved qualities。
of compassion, generosity, and even love.。
A willingness to abandon resentment,。
negative judgment, and indifference.。
That phrase is powerful, because if you've ever been hurt,。
if you've been abused, if evil has been done to you,。
you have an internal right to access things like anger,。
frustration, right?。
If that has been done to me, especially if it was unjust,。
then surely, internally, I can be angry.。
I could even want justice, maybe even revenge.。
That's my right, 'cause it was done to me.。
But in therapy, I love this definition,。
'cause it's saying, yes, you have that right,。
but you are willing to abandon that right.。
That you are saying, I am no longer going to access。
this frustration, this anger, this pain, this revenge.。
And then, not just not access this,。
but then I'm going to now transform.。
And I love this phrase, I'm gonna foster this thing,。
and it says this, the undeserved qualities.。
It's not deserved.。
But I choose to offer it anyway.。
You know what this is?。
I don't know if Enright and Fitzgibbons are Christian,。
but I think they stumbled on a beautiful,。
secular description of what grace is.。
This is a beautiful description.。
I am no longer gonna access that resentment,。
and I'm gonna transform and foster。
something completely undeserved.。
Compassion, generosity.。
I love that, I love seeing this.。
I was so struck,。
because I felt that this was。
the gospel being explained to me.。
True forgiveness, then, is both an internal transformation。
and an outward change of feelings,。
attitudes, words, and behaviors.。
It is a both/and.。
There are two things happening, my internal world。
and what's happening in my external world, too.。
Not my words, this is the clinical definition.。
So if that's the case, then,。
if this is what forgiveness is,。
well, then we can talk about what forgiveness isn't.。
And I'll say this, forgiveness is not just saying the words,。
I forgive you, right?。
It's not just saying, nah, I forgive you,。
or in today's world, just send the text, I forgive you.。
And that's not it, because what we read there。
is that there is an internal transformation。
and an external change as well.。
So it cannot just be words.。
And if any of you work with teenagers,。
you can see how someone could say something。
like I forgive you or I'm sorry, and not mean it.。
I have a teenage boy, when I catch them fighting。
with my other son and I make him apologize,。
I can tell he doesn't mean it.。
That's not what true forgiveness is, right?。
There has to be both an internal and external change.。
There's another phrase that you hear a lot,。
oh, just to forgive and forget.。
Let's just forgive and move on.。
And you know, I fundamentally disagree with that.。
Because you know what, even Jesus, in his resurrected body,。
he did not cleanse his body of the scars, right?。
You ever think about that?。
He went to Thomas, put your hand on my scar, feel it,。
because that proves I have overcome death.。
See, if Jesus didn't remove his scars,。
I know why I still have mine.。
'Cause I can say, look at the power of Jesus。
through my scars.。
So it's not about just removing these thoughts,。
it's about addressing them and saying,。
because of the love and power of Jesus Christ,。
I stand healed.。
So no, it's not about forgetting.。
And this last one really triggers me.。
'Cause people, I've actually been in a coaching situation。
where someone said, I'm not gonna forgive,。
because I don't wanna be seen to be taken advantage of.。
I don't wanna be weak.。
And when I hear that, there's something inside me。
that breaks because of the situations。
I've been a part of in my life.。
Now before I move on, this is a trigger warning.。
I'm about to talk about death by drunk driving。
and sexual abuse.。
If you feel that you cannot be here for this conversation。
or that you need to take an exit,。
please go ahead, take a bathroom break, take a walk,。
come back in a few minutes.。
Thank you.。
When I hear this phrase, to forgive is to be weak,。
I think about when I was in university.。
I was a first year in University of Michigan,。
which is in 1997, for those of you。
who wanna know how old I am.。
(audience laughing)。
And it was the middle of winter,。
so it was snowy on the ground, and my friend is a Korean.。
And in Korean American culture especially,。
as soon as Koreans hang out,。
they understand immediately who's older, right?。
And they have this concept of hyun,。
which is the older brother, older student,。
and there's a respect factor.。
And the older sibling, the older person。
is supposed to kind of protect the younger person.。
So this is hyun, you're my elder, take care of me.。
So these guys, I wasn't with them,。
but these guys were drinking,。
and they were having a great time.。
And the hyun, the older student says to my friend,。
"Hey, we need to get some cigarettes,。
"we're out of cigarettes."。
So he's like, "Okay."。
Jumped in the car, drove off.。
Middle of the night, they were drinking,。
snow on the ground.。
Sure enough, that's elder student skid off the road,。
smashed into a tree.。
It was later reported because of the seatbelt,。
the driver sustained minor issues,。
but my friend was not wearing a seatbelt.。
Flew right through their windshield.。
I'll spare you the details,。
but he was later declared dead at the scene.。
Two days later was the funeral.。
And when my friend's mom came face to face。
with the driver of that car,。
she just broke and sobbed.。
And she went to this young man,。
and she just kept hitting him like this,。
thumping on his chest.。
And she was yelling something in Korean,。
and I turned to my Korean friends,。
"What is she saying?"。
And she was saying, "You were supposed to protect him!。
"You were supposed to protect him!。
"Because he's hyun, he's the oldest."。
And she just kept hitting him,。
and it was just this gut-wrenching moment。
where we were all just watching.。
And eventually she ran out of energy,。
and then she just hugged this man,。
and just continued to sob into his chest.。
"You're gonna tell me that this woman was weak。
"to extend just that little bit of forgiveness。
"to this person who just accidentally killed her son?。
"No, no way.。
"That was the most incredible example of strength。
"I could ever think of."。
As a pastor, I've literally stood with a person。
who has experienced sexual abuse in their life,。
and they decide to, in prayer,。
forgive the person who abused them.。
And then this person was gripping their fists so tight,。
tears streaming, and their whole body was tense,。
and they uttered the word, "I forgive them."。
Is that weakness?。
It is the most powerful, strongest thing。
you could possibly do.。
To forgive is no weakness.。
It is powerful.。
So what's actually happening when you forgive?。
What's going on, both internally, what's happening?。
What is the process?。
Why should we even do this?。
Let me give you the academic research, okay?。
Look, I'm not a therapist,。
but I wanted you to see all of the research。
that I brought here.。
And when I say research, I do mean Chat GPT,。
in case you're wondering.。
I told you that I'm not a therapist.。
You're all wondering, as soon as I put this up,。
yes, it is Chat GPT,。
but I did at least check these resources.。
Come on now.。
But look at this list.。
Reduce blood pressure.。
Lower stress levels.。
Improved heart health.。
Reduce chronic pain.。
Better sleep quality.。
Improved immune function.。
Lower risk of heart attack.。
These are all proven by academic research.。
This is what happens when we forgive.。
So this list alone should be great reasons。
why we forgive, right?。
There's so many amazing benefits.。
Yet we don't.。
Right?。
Okay, maybe you're not a therapist.。
Maybe you don't do research,。
but maybe you can anecdotally also prove this.。
Think about it like this.。
Think about the opposite.。
Let's say you've been abused.。
Let's say you've experienced some evil.。
Something has happened where you hold this resentment,。
this anger, this bitterness,。
and instead of releasing it in forgiveness,。
you put it inside you and you carry it.。
What is that gonna do to you over time?。
Think about the stress that you're gonna live with.。
Think about how your quality of sleep。
is gonna be impacted, right?。
All of these things we know。
because probably many of us experience this.。
So you can appreciate this research。
because we know the opposite.。
And maybe you're experiencing exactly that right now.。
If you live a life of forgiveness,。
we know from the research it increases your health。
and your quality of life.。
That's not me.。
That's the research.。
But why don't we do this?。
Because it's so difficult, right?。
I mean, I'll say, so Dr. Aaron T. Beck,。
who is another clinical psychologist,。
and he was considered to be the father。
of our modern day style of therapy,。
which is cognitive behavior therapy, so CBT.。
He was known to say virtually all of human disturbance。
is the result of blaming others,。
blaming society or blaming self。
for things that have happened.。
And for such blaming, the need for forgiveness arises.。
So what he's saying is virtually all of the things。
that we struggle with in therapy。
is that we need to forgive someone。
and we can't do it on our own.。
That's why there's so many therapists.。
That's why there's so many counselors in this world.。
And what the predominant thing that people need to do。
when they see a counselor is to forgive.。
And you know, honestly, I am really amazed and impressed。
and hopeful for the younger generations,。
for the Gen Zs and the Gen Alphas,。
because they're trailblazing to normalize therapy.。
Right, do you know how hard it is to get a boomer。
or my Gen Zs, Gen Xs,。
do you know how hard it is to get us to therapy?。
We need to be falling apart before we're gonna admit。
that I need help and I'm gonna talk to someone about it.。
But the younger people,。
some of the younger people that I lead,。
no, I'm going to therapy, it's Friday.。
I'm like, okay.。
(audience laughing)。
You know, I'm like, great.。
You know, not only are you doing it,。
but let's just talk about it.。
Like, the older generations, you'll never know.。
And that's why I think there's hope.。
Things are gonna change.。
But if this is a kind of physical, academic reason,。
what about a spiritual, scriptural reason?。
Now, I know my mandate isn't to do a biblical thing,。
but I'm gonna do it anyway, 'cause I am.。
So, number one, right?。
This is a biblical, scriptural, theological construct。
for why we should forgive.。
One, 1 John 4, 7-8, we were dead in our transgressions.。
Right, we are separate from God.。
Our destiny was determined to be separate from God。
because of the sin in our life.。
That is truth as we understand it as believers, right?。
So, our destiny is broken,。
and we're gonna be separate from God.。
However, we know that Jesus has come.。
In Romans 3-23, it says that all have fallen short,。
but Jesus redeems us through the cross, right?。
So, our eternity now has changed.。
We have been justified to be。
in eternal relationship with Jesus,。
but that's in eternity.。
What about today?。
Well, right now, you and I have the Holy Spirit.。
We are currently and consistently,。
in every single moment, sanctified by the presence。
of the Holy Spirit, according to 1 John 1-9.。
So, not only is our eternity set,。
but our current presence now is sanctified。
and cleansed by the Holy Spirit.。
But not only that, our status has changed,。
because now, Romans 8-17, we are co-heirs with Christ.。
What an amazing thing, that our eternity is now changed,。
and our presence is now forgiven,。
and we are now status changed,。
because we're co-heirs with Christ.。
Now, what do we do with this new life and new status?。
Ephesians 4-32 says, "Love."。
Love one another,。
because love, 'cause you have been loved.。
And the exclamation point is in Colossians 3-13,。
"Forgive, because you have been forgiven."。
(claps)。
So, not only do we forgive as believers,。
because we have been forgiven,。
because Jesus, our Lord and Savior,。
has exemplified a life of forgiveness,。
and we have been commanded to do so.。
So, if you want a scriptural foundation for this,。
this is it.。
We have been redeemed.。
What do we do with that redemption?。
This is a theological construct for forgiveness。
based on the life and work of Jesus,。
but what about outside of Jesus?。
What about the whole Bible?。
Well, the Old Testament is full of examples。
of God forgiving his people.。
They constantly turn their backs on them.。
The Israelites say, "We don't even remember who you are,"。
and God delivers them and forgives them, repeatedly.。
The New Testament, after Jesus was resurrected,。
and he ascended to heaven,。
the early church is full of stories of forgiveness,。
but I'm gonna bring out one, and that's Stephen.。
After Jesus ascended to heaven,。
the early church started to erupt,。
and people were saying, "Jesus is the Messiah,"。
and Stephen was calling out the Pharisees,。
the religious order, saying,。
"And you were the ones that killed him."。
Now, to say that someone was Messiah in those days,。
it is punishable by death because it is blasphemy,。
so the religious leaders had every right。
to take Stephen out and to stone him to death,。
and that is exactly what they did.。
Acts 7, 59, as they started to stone Stephen,。
Stephen says, "Lord Jesus, receive my spirit."。
He falls to his knees, and as he was being stoned,。
he said, "Jesus, do not hold their sin against them."。
You want examples of forgiveness?。
This man was being stoned to death,。
and his last words were, "Forgive them."。
This is the rich history we have as believers.。
We forgive because there are physical and mental benefits.。
We forgive because we have the example of Jesus,。
our Lord and Savior.。
We forgive because we've commanded to,。
but we also forgive because we have this amazing history。
from creation all the way till today,。
and it will continue forevermore until Jesus comes back.。
Forgiveness earmarks us as believers.。
And you know, honestly, I forget。
that this is our foundation sometimes.。
Now, since I've been coaching since 2011,。
and since 2019, I've been coaching primarily。
in a non-Christian space,。
and honestly, it's just been amazing sometimes.。
There was a situation where I was coaching。
the number three person in an organization,。
and it just so happened this person。
had developed a very negative relationship with their CEO.。
It was so bad that this person would just be triggered。
seeing that person, and they couldn't communicate,。
and she was losing sleep, and she was just having anxiety,。
and so it ended up, she decided,。
"I'm gonna resign from this position," which is fair,。
but her contract stipulated。
that she had many months left to serve out.。
So as I coached her, I was saying,。
"You know, how do you want these last few months to go?"。
I don't know, maybe I'll just avoid him.。
And I said, "Well, I don't know if that's really possible.。
"Four months is a long time, and you gotta hand over."。
And I just explored.。
I said, "Is it okay if I have a suggestion?"。
I said, "Would you like to kind of。
"take a look at this relationship?。
"There's a lot of time for us to just address it."。
I used that phrase, "Let's just address it."。
I didn't say, "Why don't you forgive him?"。
I didn't say, "Hey, let's forgive this.。
"Let's reconcile."。
I didn't say any of that.。
And I'll never forget this, and forgive my language.。
She looked at me and she said, "What?。
"No, I'm gonna make his life a living hell."。
And I was like, "What?"。
I didn't say that, 'cause if I'm doing that。
in a professional context, that would not be appropriate。
for me to say, "What, what's wrong with you?"。
(audience laughing)。
But I realized, this is a clash of values.。
Because for me, when I heard that this person。
was experiencing anxiety, that there was a breakdown。
in the relationship, that she just struggled。
to even see that person, I'm like, "Why don't you forgive?"。
And I say that because I've been forgiven by Jesus.。
Why not?。
This is on the tip of my tongue.。
It's right there because I'm a believer.。
She does not have that context.。
So for her, it was extremely natural。
for her to access revenge.。
Right?。
This person hurt me, wronged me,。
therefore, I'm gonna, I have, remember the definition?。
I have the right to access resentment.。
And I was like, "Wow, we have completely。
"different foundations."。
If you call yourself, if you identify as a believer。
in Christ, we have this foundation of forgiveness。
that should always be somewhere in our consciousness.。
And experiencing the life of people who don't know Jesus,。
I realized, wow, sometimes they do not.。
Now, if this is why we should forgive。
and what happens when we forgive,。
how do we actually do this?。
What does it even look like?。
Now, remember the definition is that there's both。
an internal addressing of the situation,。
but there's also an external change as well.。
So taking the definitions that I shared earlier,。
here are some steps for forgiveness.。
And if any of you are therapists or have been to therapy,。
you'll recognize these steps.。
First is you need to choose to act.。
Going to therapy and dealing with forgiveness,。
you need to do something.。
I cannot reach into your heart and make you forgive someone.。
You have to do that, right?。
You cannot sit there and say, "Well, make me."。
It doesn't work like that, right?。
So forgiveness needs to first and foremost。
be a decision that you make.。
Then, whatever it looks like,。
whether you're talking to someone。
or you're actually going to therapy itself,。
be willing to abandon your rights to that as resentment.。
What that means is you have to choose to address the issues.。
I have literally been in coaching。
and in pastoral counseling situations。
where the person in front of me was forced to be there.。
Either it was a child, like their parents made them,。
or their spouse or significant other made them.。
And they're sitting there and they refuse to talk about。
what they really need to talk about.。
It is the most frustrating thing I'm doing。
when somebody is forced and they don't talk。
and I'm like, "Buddy, it's been 50 minutes.。
"What are we talking about?"。
That is not how I coach, by the way.。
That's just my internal mind.。
I feel like I'm confessing a lot here.。
But if you're going to act on forgiveness,。
you need to be willing to go there.。
And that's hard, I understand that.。
But you need to be willing to address that resentment。
and start that process of abandoning your rights。
to that resentment.。
And you know what?。
If you've ever been to therapy,。
you know it is not a one-time thing.。
It is a constant, repeated thing.。
Why?。
Because you go one week, you peel back a layer,。
ho, there's another one, oh, there's two more.。
And you just keep going and then you're like,。
"What are we talking about?"。
Jeepers, we're covering everything because it goes deep.。
So it's a repeated process.。
But it isn't just not feeling anger or resentment.。
It's, remember, it's fostering something else.。
It's transforming into something else.。
And I love this phrase by Enright and Fitzgibbons。
that it is fostering the undeserved qualities of compassion.。
People who have hurt you,。
they may never deserve your grace and forgiveness.。
Full stop.。
But forgiveness is a choice that you make。
in light of that situation.。
So you foster the undeserved qualities of compassion,。
generosity, and according to Enright and Fitzgibbon,。
maybe even love.。
And again, it's not a one-time thing.。
It's rinse and repeat.。
Keep doing it.。
Until, remember, this is the outcome,。
that you are no longer dominated by resentment.。
Now, as I say this repeatedly,。
I know some of you right now are looking at me。
and you are honestly dominated by resentment.。
And as I am speaking, I am inviting the Holy Spirit。
to just knock on your heart.。
And the question is, maybe it's time.。
So this is the clinical process of forgiveness.。
This is what happens when you go see a therapist.。
Of course, it's different ways,。
but this is how I was brought through forgiveness.。
But let me give you a scriptural one.。
Let me give you a scriptural how to forgive.。
And I was introduced to this translation.。
It's called the Passion Translation.。
It's a paraphrase, kind of like how the message was.。
So it's called the TPT.。
So in the TPT, let me read you Proverbs 20, verse 22.。
Don't ever say, "I'm going to get even with them。
"if it's the last thing I do."。
That's revenge.。
Don't do that.。
Wrap God's grace around your heart,。
and he will be the one to vindicate you.。
Wrap God's grace around your heart.。
Your heart may be broken, battered.。
You may have been abused.。
You may have, you may even struggle。
to get up in the mornings。
because of the pain that you have suffered.。
How do you forgive?。
You allow the grace of God to surround your heart,。
and then you let God vindicate you.。
This is not something you can do easily.。
But thankfully, as we learned from last week's。
Talk by Promise, we don't do this in our own strength.。
We do this by the grace and the power。
and the love and the mercy of the presence。
of the Holy Spirit.。
Let him wrap his grace around your heart,。
and then let him vindicate you.。
So if it's so powerful,。
if that's what we do scripturally,。
if that's what we do physically,。
what are we supposed to do with this?。
What now?。
Am I supposed to forgive in every situation?。
Am I supposed to just say, "Oh, I forgive you.。
"You can do whatever you want to me。
"because I'm gonna forgive you."。
Let me say this, and I cannot say this any stronger.。
If you are currently in a situation of abuse,。
physical, sexual, emotional, psychological abuse,。
get out.。
Talk to somebody.。
To live a life of forgiveness。
doesn't mean you have to accept abuse.。
Get safe, get out, talk to someone.。
If you don't trust a family member,。
go and talk to a friend.。
If you don't trust friends,。
go and talk to some of the pastoral team.。
If you don't trust them, go and talk to a counselor,。
but do not accept the abuse that's happening.。
I'm personally a mandatory reporter.。
If I see or hear about anything。
in the realm of physical or sexual abuse,。
I am mandated to report it directly to the police.。
Now, I don't know about that in Hong,。
I don't know what the laws are in Hong Kong,。
but that's what I practice,。
and I know there's nuance here,。
but do not accept abuse。
just because you think that's the Christian way.。
Get help, get out, and get safe.。
In fact, what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna show you。
the QR code for Oasis Counseling Center.。
This is the counseling center。
that's attached to the Vine Church.。
Now, if those of you who need it,。
I wanna ask you to do it,。
but to protect the identity of those。
who genuinely need to reach out,。
I'm gonna ask all of you to take out your phones。
and just at least do the act of it。
so that someone who really needs it。
is not feeling like, oh, everybody's looking at me.。
Obviously, I need help,。
so let's all do it.。
Now, some of you who are laughing and doing this,。
you need to go!。
(audience laughing)。
So let's just protect those who really need it,。
but if any of you need to get out。
and you don't know what to do,。
please contact our counseling team.。
They would love to,。
all of our trained professional counselors。
would love to talk to you.。
But let's say you're clear of the abuse.。
Maybe it happened a while ago,。
weeks, months, years, maybe even decades,。
but that phrase, dominated by resentment, still stands.。
Maybe when you think of what happened to you。
or what was done to you,。
you still have rage or anger or pain。
or you want vengeance or,。
it's just uncontrollable, a negative response.。
And I bet you some of you are looking at me。
and intently you're saying,。
"You don't know how hard it was.。
"You don't know how painful it was.。
"You don't know what I've been through, Derek."。
And you're right, I'll never know,。
but Jesus does.。
Jesus knows every single thing that has happened.。
And you can say to me, "Oh, well, why wasn't he there?。
"Why did he allow this to happen?"。
I will never be able to explain that to you。
and I'm not even gonna try.。
But I wanna tell you that Jesus understands your pain.。
The perfect, sinless Son of God came to earth。
to experience life on earth to its fullness.。
And near the end of his life,。
he was accused of being a blasphemer,。
tortured, stripped down, humiliated,。
forced to wear a crown of thorns,。
paraded through the city。
for nothing of his wrongdoing of his own,。
but because he went to take yours and my sin.。
You think Jesus doesn't understand betrayal?。
You think Jesus doesn't understand pain and suffering?。
He absolutely understands it.。
Luke 23, "And when they came to the place。
"that's called Skull, there they crucified him,"。
being Jesus, "with the criminals."。
They treated him, our Savior, as a criminal。
because of my sin.。
And they hung him there,。
bleeding, alone.。
And what does he say?。
He said, "Father, forgive them,。
"for they know not what they do."。
(chuckles)。
Our Savior, in the midst of being betrayed。
by the very people he came to save,。
he says, "Forgive them."。
This is our God.。
See, forgiveness is the central core aspect of our faith.。
There's no justification.。
There's no sanctification.。
There's no nothing without forgiveness.。
We don't have a faith.。
We don't have a Savior without forgiveness.。
And so the only way we can experience the true fullness。
of what God has for us is that we receive that forgiveness。
and then we extend it to others.。
Because if we don't, who are we to say,。
we receive all that forgiveness, and then we say,。
"No, I'm not gonna forgive others."。
Then we become a block to the love。
and the power of forgiveness in this world。
because we hoard it for ourselves.。
Or we don't think Jesus has the power to forgive,。
which both is not true.。
Is forgiveness easy?。
No, it's absolutely not.。
But thankfully, we have the person of Jesus。
in the presence of the Holy Spirit.。
I'm not gonna tell you what to do.。
I'm going to ask the Holy Spirit to do that.。
I'm gonna share one last story.。
Can I get the pen?。
I grew up in a Chinese family.。
My parents are from Hong Kong.。
And my dad immigrated to the States,。
had a great upbringing there.。
And then we came back to Hong Kong。
and I lived the expat life.。
I went to island school,。
if there's anyone who went to island school.。
I went to, you know, I was able to have all the things,。
you know, tennis club, golf club, woo-hoo.。
I lived the life, right?。
I even went to university in the States.。
So my father being a very Chinese man,。
loved us in the way that Chinese men do.。
He provided for us, right?。
Did I have a relationship with my father?。
No.。
Did I sit down and talk to my dad。
about all my hopes and dreams?。
No.。
Did I sit there and just ask him how his day was?。
No, that's not the relationship that I have with my father.。
In the late stages of his life,。
he had severe dementia。
and a number of other ailments with his body,。
but then he developed a cancer in his jawbone.。
And because his overall health was so poor,。
the doctors said, "We cannot operate on him.。
"He won't survive the operation."。
So essentially they said, "There's nothing we can do."。
So we just tried in the later stages of his life。
to have his quality of life as positive as it could be.。
But the cancer grew to a point。
where it fused his mouth shut.。
So he could no longer chew.。
And if there was one thing that my father loved doing,。
it was eating.。
He was diabetic, but he loved his ice creams。
and he loved fatty char siu.。
It was just ridiculous.。
But once he could no longer take solid food,。
he just disintegrated.。
And so we're very thankful that he didn't suffer very long,。
but ultimately he succumbed to the cancer.。
A few hours after he passed,。
I was outside in the hospital,。
outside the operating room,。
and I was able to go and say my farewell to my father,。
just a few hours passed.。
I stood there。
and I said, "Dad, thank you so much for the life。
"that you provided for me."。
Then I found myself saying,。
"You know, Dad, I forgive you for not being the father。
"I wish you were."。
And I would love to tell you。
that I had this wave of emotion, of tears of joy,。
and this just release, but I didn't.。
You know what I felt?。
Shame.。
I don't have very many regrets in my life,。
but I felt in that moment, shame.。
Because why didn't I care enough。
to say this to my father when he was of sound mind。
and of sound health,。
so that we could actually build the relationship。
that I wish we had?。
So what I'm saying is when it comes to forgiveness,。
don't be like me.。
Don't wait.。
'Cause then you don't know if you have the chance.。
Why don't we all stand here today?。
Maybe if you could just close your eyes.。
(gentle music)。
Heavenly Father, I thank you for every single person。
here in this room and everyone online who's watching.。
I don't know their story.。
I don't know their pain.。
I don't know where they're at, but you do.。
So Father, I ask right now by the power and mercy。
and grace of your Holy Spirit,。
come and minister to your people now.。
It is not in our strength that we can do this,。
but wrap your grace around our hearts。
and help us to be conjurants of forgiveness.。
No matter how painful or difficult it is,。
Jesus, you promise that you are with us.。
So guide us now, minister to us,。
and we thank you in Jesus' name, amen.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
