Hey, it's so good to see you.。
I don't know why I just pulled my sleeves up because it's actually kind of cold, but。
I'm ready.。
I hope you guys are.。
So when I graduated from seminary, I ended up going to Germany and I was in a church,。
I was a youth pastor, young adults pastor, and I became part of the leadership team.。
So as a leadership team, after a few years, we decided that we are going to go to a leadership。
conference to be inspired and to also take some time as a leadership team to discuss。
some of the direction and vision of the church.。
And so here I was at this conference, all these amazing speakers, and after like three。
sessions or so, I remember sitting in the big hall against the wall and just really。
feeling out of place, really feeling that I don't belong.。
But I didn't know why I was feeling this way.。
And it wasn't until the evening when the evening speaker shared and spoke that it dawned on。
me what was going on.。
So in the evening, the speaker was talking about some of the challenges, some of the。
struggles that he was facing and that he was going through.。
But he also talked about how God was meeting him, how God was with him and how he brought。
him through these challenges and how it was so inspiring.。
And then it dawned on me, the reason why I had felt so out of place was because the other。
speakers, they all spoke from a place of success.。
Everything they did turned into gold, so to speak.。
Everything they did worked out perfectly.。
And I was like, that is not my life.。
Not everything that I do is working out perfectly.。
Now, don't get me wrong, my youth and young adults ministry was going okay, but there。
were some real challenges that were going on there as well.。
What I needed was to hear from someone who has gone through this stuff, who God met in。
the midst of that and who knew how to work and walk through that with faith, with courage.。
And so that's what was going on.。
And then once I heard this message, I suddenly didn't feel so much more out of place.。
And I'm sure, or I'm very confident, most of us here feel the same way.。
What's actually helpful for us is not that people talk about all their one victory to。
the next victory to the next victory and their life is just this upward projective of going。
up.。
But what we need is people who authentically share their lives, their joys.。
Of course, that's inspiring, that's beautiful.。
But also their struggles and how God meets them in the midst of that and helps them to。
walk through that.。
That's what I need to hear.。
And I believe that that's what we need to hear because our lives, there are challenges,。
there are struggles, there's also victories and joys.。
But we need to hear from people who have gone through stuff and who've made it through or。
who've encountered God in the midst of it.。
And so I'm excited today because we're going to look at scripture.。
And scripture, it doesn't just portray people or characters that have perfect lives.。
As a matter of fact, if you read the Bible, you see there's a lot of very messy families,。
super messy families.。
But God works in and through them.。
And one of those peoples is Joseph.。
And so today I'm really excited.。
We are going to start a sermon series that we've titled "The Story of Joseph," where。
we're going to look at his life.。
And Joseph, he had some very extreme lows, some very painful, some very difficult experiences.。
But he also had some great success.。
So it wasn't just struggle, but he also had some great success.。
And we're going to look at the highs and lows and how Joseph walks through this with faith。
and with courage and how God meets him in all parts of his life journey.。
I believe that God wants to speak to us through the life of Joseph.。
And as I was preparing the sermon series, I really sensed that God wants to build a。
stronger and more resilient and more courageous faith into our hearts, into our lives.。
And I don't know about you, but I want that.。
I want a stronger faith.。
I want to be more resilient when stuff happens that's not the way I pictured or when doing。
what's right doesn't seem to be paying off.。
I want a faith that's strong enough to get through whatever it is that is going on.。
And so last year as a church, a lot of our focus has been that Jesus is healer.。
And we're always going to focus on that.。
We're the divine church because Jesus continues his healing work.。
But part of the healing journey is also growing, maturing.。
And so I believe that the series is especially an invitation for a more mature faith, for。
growing big people, which is the vision of divine church, for us to attain the full measure。
of the fullness of Christ.。
I think I got that a little bit wrong, but let me get it 100% right.。
Attaining the whole measure of the fullness of Christ.。
There we go.。
That's what Paul says to the Ephesian Christians, because that's what God wants to do with us.。
He wants to make us mature followers of Jesus who reflect his character more fully and fully.。
And I believe that through the story of Joseph, that God wants to speak to us and start working。
that into our lives.。
So I'm excited about that.。
Now, before we go into the specific passage for today, I do want to do a little bit more。
background work with you.。
Most of the time we don't do that in as much detail, but today I felt like I need to set。
really the backdrop of the story of Joseph and what that story is located in the book。
of Genesis.。
So we're on the book of Genesis, which is the beginning of the first book in the Bible.。
It's a book of origins.。
And this book can be broken down at many different ways, but I just chose a simple structure。
and a threefold structure.。
So it's up here.。
There is a prehistory, there's a patriarchal narratives, and then there's a story of Joseph.。
Let me tell you about each of them a little bit.。
So the prehistory is about creation.。
It's about the fall.。
It's about humanity made in the image of God.。
But it's also about evil and evil progressing, but a loving God not giving up on his creation.。
So that's the first 11 chapters.。
Then there's the patriarchal narratives.。
And this is really where God starts his rescue mission of what was lost in the Garden of。
Eden, where God is at work of restoring and redeeming a humanity, a world that has experienced。
the fall, where sin has taken its effect and he wants to restore relationships between。
us and God, relationships between us and others, a relationship between us and creation, and。
relationship even to ourselves.。
And so this redemptive narrative starts with a covenant that God makes with Abraham.。
And in this covenant, he promises them land, descendants, and blessing.。
So he promised Abraham the land of Canaan.。
He promised Abraham that he will have numerous descendants, that he will be a father of a。
great nation.。
And he promises that his people, his ancestors, will be a great blessing to all nations.。
And so God sets aside this group of people because he wants them to be an alternative。
community.。
He wants them to reflect his character, his justice, his holiness, and how they relate。
to each other and how they relate to the rest of the world.。
And so this promise or this rescue mission is set in motion through this covenant with。
Abraham.。
Then Abraham passes this covenant on to, or God passes this covenant on to Isaac, his。
son.。
And then Isaac passes on this covenant and this promise to Jacob.。
And Jacob is the father of Joseph.。
And this is where we get in the third part of the story.。
Now we refer to it as a story of Joseph, but really it is a story about Jacob's family.。
Jacob had 12 sons, one daughter that we know of, maybe more, but we only know of one.。
But the 12 sons, they start caring for this covenant promise that God has made with Abraham.。
And actually, the 12 sons become the, so to speak, founding fathers of the nation, later。
on nation of Israel.。
And so this covenant gets carried forward.。
And in the Joseph story, we see that what God has promised, which at first seems so。
unlikely that there will be many descendants, that that is now starting to unfold.。
And we also see in the story that God's purposes, God's plan, God's word will come to pass.。
You know what he sets out to do, he accomplishes.。
Now within the narrative, there's always this challenge and this tension.。
Will this happen?。
Will God's promise come to fruition?。
And then there is a lot of opposition, but we see that it does.。
So that is the book of Genesis and, you know, in the threefold structure of what's going。
on.。
And then the story of Joseph takes place as part of this redemptive, grand narrative of。
the Bible.。
Now, I also think that it's important, not only that we have this over, you actually。
think we need to give you an overview of the story of Joseph, because when every week,。
when we look at different parts of Joseph's story, we actually always have to keep the。
whole story in mind so that we understand what's going on.。
We have to have the whole picture in mind.。
So I'm going to quickly narrate the whole story of Joseph.。
And by the way, it's only chapter 37 to 50 in the Bible.。
So I'm just going to start reading right now, maybe like in an hour, we're going to be done.。
No, I'm going to do it quicker, hopefully.。
So here's the story of Joseph in a nutshell.。
Jacob loves Joseph more than he loves the other brothers.。
It's his favorite.。
He gives them a special robe.。
The brothers are extremely jealous of the father's love, so they decide that they are。
going to kill him.。
But instead of killing him, they end up selling him into slavery.。
And then through the slavery, he's brought to Egypt.。
In Egypt, he ends up in Potiphar's house.。
He's actually quite successful in Potiphar's house.。
But then Potiphar's wife accuses him of attempting to rape her.。
And so then he's thrown in prison.。
So just when you thought that Joseph's life might be getting better, it actually gets。
worse.。
And in prison, he meets two people from the court of Pharaoh, the cupbearer and the baker.。
And he interprets dreams for them.。
And he asks the cupbearer to not forget him once he is restored back to Pharaoh, which。
is part of his dream interpretation, which comes to pass.。
But the cupbearer forgets, and another couple of years pass until Pharaoh has a dream that。
nobody knows how to interpret.。
And so he remembers.。
He remembers that there was this guy in prison.。
And so they bring Joseph to Pharaoh, and Pharaoh interprets the dream of Joseph that there。
will be seven years of plenty and abundance, and then a seven-year famine.。
And he also comes up with a plan of what they can do, and Pharaoh sees that the spirit of。
God is in Joseph, is with Joseph.。
And so he puts him in charge.。
He's second in charge of Egypt to implement a plan to not only save Egypt, but then also。
to actually save the region, the whole region, from starvation.。
And so then Jacob and his sons, the sons are sent to Egypt because they need grain, they。
need food, because they have none in Israel.。
And so he finds himself suddenly confronted with his brothers who sold him into slavery.。
But they don't recognize him, and he tests them.。
He ends up forgiving them.。
He brings the whole family to Egypt, and the family is safe and secure and makes it through。
the famine.。
And the promise of God, the covenant promise, is carried forward.。
And even the famine cannot stop the promise of God.。
So that's the quick version.。
I hope that was quick enough, better than reading.。
But there is, at the end, there's a verse that I think is important for understanding。
the whole.。
So Jacob dies, and then his sons start freaking out again that Joseph is going to retaliate,。
even though he already has forgiven them.。
And so they ask him to be his servant.。
And this is, I want to read this verse.。
If you've been in church, you might have heard this before.。
Genesis 50 verse 20 says this, "You intended to harm me, but God intended it for good to。
accomplish what is now being done, the saving of many lives."。
So God was working through all the evil, all the horrible things that were happening, and。
he brought about his purposes for Joseph, for his family, and he brought out good.。
You know, God's purposes, God's plans, they cannot be stopped.。
He will accomplish what he sets out to accomplish in our lives.。
But anyhow, let's actually get to our passage for today.。
Does that sound good?。
Yes, let's do it.。
All right, Genesis 37 verse 2, here we go.。
This is the account of Jacob's family line.。
Joseph a young man of 17 was tending the flocks with his brothers, the sons of Bila and the。
sons of Silpa, his father's wives, and he brought their father a bad report about them.。
All right, Joseph is 17 years old.。
A little bit background story.。
Jacob has four wives.。
There is Leah, Rachel, which are his main wives, and then there are Bila and Silpa,。
who are basically the maids of Leah and Rachel.。
And so Jacob right now is with his half-brothers in the field, and there might be a little。
bit of a hint that his father also has sent them there to spy on his brothers, and he。
brings a bad report about them.。
Now, I don't know about you, but as kids or even nowadays, when somebody just tells on。
someone that usually doesn't go across well.。
You're not making friends, especially if you're telling on your older brother, right?。
So he's not making friends, but let's continue what happens next.。
So verse 3.。
"Now Israel loved Joseph more than any of his other sons, because he had been born to。
him in his old age, and he made an ornate robe for him.。
His brothers saw that their father loved him more than any of them.。
They hated him and could not speak a kind word to him."。
So Joseph, he publicly expresses his favoritism for his son by giving him this ornate robe.。
Now the Hebrew word for this robe is actually not that clear.。
It can mean ornate robe, it can mean long-sleeved robe.。
And what that basically means is, this is like the robe of a prince.。
Now Jacob's family work is livestock and working in fields.。
So if you have a robe like that, you're not the one who most of the time works there.。
So he's basically treating Joseph like a prince.。
Now as parents, especially if you have multiple children, not just one child, it's easy to。
more easily get along with one of your children than maybe over other children.。
You know, if we're just honest, right?。
Because we have different temperament, they have different personality, maybe even it's。
the gender, maybe you can just more easily relate to the same gender or something like。
that.。
And so that's quite a natural thing.。
But what becomes a problem is when this maybe natural ease that you can navigate with one。
child when that turns into favoritism.。
And favoritism is actually sin.。
The Bible actually refers to favoritism as sin.。
When we show favoritism, you know, somebody else.。
But John Lennox, he's an apologist, like somebody who defends the Christian faith.。
He's also a mathematician, a professor in Oxford.。
And he defines favoritism in this way.。
He says, "Favoritism involves preferential treatment of some over others, particularly。
in relations that should be equal."。
And then James, Jesus' brother, he says this in James 2.1.。
He says, "My brothers and sisters, believers in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ must not。
show favoritism."。
He's actually talking to the church where some of the people were showing favoritism。
to the rich over the poor.。
And he's saying, "Nuh-uh.。
Should treat nobody with favoritism.。
Should all be treated equal."。
And that same truth applies whether it's in family, whether it's in the church, whether。
it's in your workplace.。
That's what God desires of us.。
And so many parents, they put forth an effort.。
If they have two children, they put forth an effort of not showing favoritism to the。
child that they may be more easily related to.。
And that's awesome, and that honors God.。
But Joseph is not one of those parents.。
He just shows the favoritism.。
He just publicly expresses it.。
And it ends up leading his brothers to have this deep hatred and resentment because they're。
not as loved as Joseph is.。
They want that same love, but they're not getting it.。
And so we're told that they're not able, they hated him, and he could not speak a kind word。
to him.。
Now, I don't know if you've ever had this experience.。
Maybe it's in your family, maybe it's in a workplace where you step into the room and。
somebody's just hating on you.。
Everything you do, they have a negative word to say about you.。
Everything you do in their eyes sucks.。
And they let you know.。
Or I don't know if this was a thing back in that time where they rolled their eyes.。
Or maybe they just sneer at you, or they do that whole sound.。
Isn't that a beautiful sound when somebody else makes that sound to you?。
I remember when I first came to Hong Kong, and I was unaware of how stuff works, I got。
a lot of...。
I don't know what that means.。
I was like, "Why are people making a sound?"。
And I don't know what I did.。
Now, it doesn't happen anymore, so I must have learned to avoid that sound.。
But that's like Cold War, right?。
You're stepping into a room and your brothers are just hating on you.。
Man, it's horrible.。
What a horrible environment.。
And I think we all, in different ways, whether it's at workplace, in family, or whether it's。
ourselves even doing it, have experienced the negative effects of favoritism.。
Maybe we didn't get the love that we should have gotten.。
Maybe we were unfairly treated, that one person always gets a promotion, always gets the boss's。
attention, but we don't.。
Or maybe we're the ones who are doing it, who are showing the favoritism.。
Because we're not always just the recipients of things, we also have issues ourselves and。
do that as well.。
And as I was praying over this message, I did...。
There's a couple of things with that that I sensed that I just want to say at this point.。
One of them was, I do believe that we need to examine ourselves.。
Is there favoritism that you are showing to someone where you shouldn't do it?。
And if you are, whether it's in your family, whether it's at work, whether it's with your。
students, actually, we need to repent.。
We need to ask God for forgiveness for that.。
We need to start living differently.。
Because when we do that, it just creates a mess.。
And it just hurts people, and it doesn't honor God.。
So that was the first thing.。
The second thing that I was sensing was that some of us weren't shown the love that actually。
we were meant to be loved, especially from our parents, from our mother, from our father.。
And I just have this overwhelming sense of God's love for you.。
That He loves you.。
He sees you.。
And He wants you to know that love.。
Now, interesting, earlier when Chapman was servicing, he was talking about basically。
Romans 5.5, where it talks about the Holy Spirit pouring God's love into our hearts.。
And I believe that the Spirit of God, if you have not received the love that you were meant。
to receive, God wants to pour His Spirit, His love into your hearts.。
That you know you are loved, you are worthy.。
He does see you.。
You have not been overlooked.。
And He wants you to know that.。
So favoritism brings hurt and pain into people's lives, and it soured the relationship between。
Joseph and his brothers.。
The brothers projected, even though the father was showing favoritism, but the brothers projected。
their hatred and their anger on Joseph.。
You see, with favoritism, there is no winner.。
Everyone's a loser.。
Because Jacob loved Joseph more, but by loving him more, he put him in a really difficult。
spot because it destroyed the relationship with his brothers.。
The brothers suffered because they didn't get the love they were meant to have.。
It's just a mess, and it really just shows how sin works itself out in our lives, in。
our families, in our workplaces.。
So there is no winner.。
But let's continue to see how the story unfolds.。
Genesis, or continue in verse 5, Genesis 37.。
It says this, "Joseph had a dream, and when he told it to his brothers, they hated him。
all the more.。
He said to them, 'Listen to this dream I had.。
We were binding sheaves of corn out in the field when suddenly my sheave rose and stood。
upright while your sheaves gathered around mine and bowed down to it.'。
His brothers said to him, 'Do you intend to reign over us?。
Will you actually rule us?'。
And they hated him all the more because of his dream and what he had said."。
Now just, I mean, even by the way I read it, you already kind of sense the ridiculousness。
of this.。
But just imagine you're sharing a dream, "Hey guys!。
Hey church, I had a dream!。
And it was me, and it was this sheave, and it stood up to all my sheaves, and all of。
your sheaves started bowing down to me.。
Isn't that a great dream?。
Yay, everybody loves me!"。
You know, I don't know who would ever think this is a good idea to share that dream.。
And so they hate him more, and they even respond to it, they understand what it means.。
They respond, "Do you intend to reign over us?。
Will you actually rule us?"。
You know, they actually ask that question.。
And it just further escalates that hatred and the tension between the family.。
Now I really just wonder, because Joseph is actually about to tell the next dream.。
So you get this, you tell the first dream, and you have this reaction.。
I wonder how in the world can you not realize what's going on and tell the next dream?。
Like seriously, like really, it's like baffling.。
Like why would you tell the next dream?。
You know, if the first one's already like this, and your brothers respond.。
And I mean there's, you know, three, I think three possibilities.。
One of them is he's just oblivious to it, and he just lacks social skills.。
You know, the other one is that he's so excited about what God has spoken to him.。
That all of that enthusiasm, you know, he shares it, but in that enthusiasm he is not。
aware of how that impacts the brothers.。
Or there's some pride, and he's rubbing it in.。
He's enjoying it.。
You know, he's pushing, you know, as siblings you know how to push a button from your family。
members to get them upset, so maybe he's pushing a button.。
But in the end we actually don't know.。
The Bible doesn't tell us what Joseph was thinking.。
It just tells us that he told the dreams.。
So let's look at the second dream that he shares.。
Continuing in verse 9 it says, "Then he had another dream, and he told it to his brothers.。
'Listen,' he said.。
'I had another dream, and this time the sun and the moon and the eleven stars were bowing。
down to me.'。
When he told his father as well as his brothers, his father rebuked him and said, 'What is。
this dream you had?。
Will your mother and I, your brothers, actually come and bow down to the ground before you?'。
So his brothers were jealous of him, but his father kept the matter in mind."。
Now I think at the very least we can say that Joseph lacked wisdom in sharing this dream。
in the way that he did, or maturity.。
But we see here now his father who loves him.。
He's his father's favorite, and his father rebukes him.。
He says, "What are you thinking, man?"。
Well, it's interesting in verse 11 there's a little afterthought, and it says this, "But。
his father kept the matter in mind."。
So it seems like he doesn't outright disregard what Joseph says.。
And his brothers, they react with jealousy.。
"But his father kept this matter in mind."。
It reminds me of Mary when she ponders some of the things that the angel told her.。
So he's pondering these things.。
I think we're meant as listeners or readers also meant to ponder, what's about this dream。
from Joseph?。
But we're going to actually continue the story next week.。
Pastor Chapman, you're preaching next week, right?。
Yes, okay, good.。
So he's preaching next week.。
We're going to, at this point in time, we've had three things happen.。
We had him tell on his brothers.。
So he's like a telltale, right?。
He's telling on his brothers.。
He got the robe, and then he shared his dreams.。
So we're at almost a breaking point, right?。
And a tension in this narrative.。
Stuff is about to escalate, and we're going to look at it next week.。
But what I want to do with you, I want to at this point in time ask the question, what。
God might be saying to us through this story?。
And so here it goes.。
Every person has a story.。
Every person has a family background, a history, every one of us.。
And if the Bible would only include family stories of ideal families who do beautiful。
things, who turn into incredible men and women of God, I think we would be very discouraged.。
Because our lives are not that way.。
Our families are messy.。
Not just the ones we grew up in, but our own ones as well.。
Because there is brokenness, there's sin, there's offense, there's hurt, there's pain.。
And I'm so grateful that God's Word does this real talk in Scripture.。
Because of that, we get to see that God works even in broken families' lives.。
And that having a messy family doesn't exclude you from the work that God wants to do in。
your life.。
And it doesn't exclude you from the work that God can do to change your life so that you。
don't perpetuate maybe what's been done to you.。
Because we carry things ourselves with us.。
You know, that is good news.。
God is a God of messy people and messy families.。
Now, the Bible describes family life as it truly is.。
Messy and filled with strained relationships, dysfunction, favoritism, envy, and pride.。
I should say also good stuff, I didn't put this in here.。
Also good things, right?。
Yet it also speaks over God who understands your family background.。
And can work in and through the messiness to fulfill his purposes in your life and in。
your family's life.。
So how do we connect with God about this?。
About ourselves, about our family?。
What do we do?。
Well, I want to share a story from my father.。
So I brought a photo, which is scarily old.。
All right, this is my family, 1999, we're in the 90s.。
And so this is my brother Mark, my mom Mary, so my mom's American, my father Heinz, like。
Heinz Ketchup, he's German, my sister Ruth, and there's me.。
I think you know my name.。
And my father, he grew up post-World War II in Germany, just a little bit less than three。
years after that.。
He grew up in ruins.。
Just like the Germans bombed other cities and completely flat bombed things, well, the。
Allies did that to Germany as well.。
So he grew up in Frankfurt and was pretty much bombed down.。
So he grew up in ruins, he played in ruins, he thought it was normal.。
His family struggled to put food on the table.。
Every day there was a question, where will the food come this day?。
And he had an unhappy childhood.。
But his childhood doesn't have to do with the ruins, it doesn't have to do with not。
having much food.。
It had to do with his relationship with his father, my grandfather.。
Because his father himself had not an easy childhood, and so there's this generational。
sin.。
I was passed down of anger, and my father was like the rod that got the lightning.。
But the anger was targeted towards, he experienced emotional and physical abuse.。
And I'm not going to share too much, also don't want to trigger people too much, because。
I know that some of you have gone through extremely difficult things yourself.。
But one of the stories he recounts often, or recounted often, he passed away quite a。
while ago, is that while the family was eating together, he was not allowed to eat with the。
family.。
They made him eat outside on his own to let him know that something was wrong with him,。
that he was not really part of the family, that he was being punished.。
And so he had to eat on his own.。
Just think of it as a child.。
If you're told that there's something so wrong with you, that you're not even allowed to。
eat with your family.。
You know, but that's real life.。
That's family life.。
Family life is messy.。
There's brokenness.。
So when he married my mom, he didn't want to repeat that cycle of anger that was so。
destructive that made his childhood so difficult, where he doesn't have a positive memory of。
his childhood.。
He didn't want to repeat that.。
The way he did that was through his relationship with Jesus.。
Because he invited Jesus into his life, and he asked God to meet him, and to provide for。
him, and to help him not to repeat that, because there was also something there in him, in。
my father.。
And so even though he didn't have a loving father, and he never experienced that from。
a human father, he was a loving father to me and my siblings.。
And it was because of the love of our heavenly father that he was able to break the cycle。
of anger, and of emotional, and of physical abuse.。
Now I don't want to pretend my father was perfect.。
He was not.。
You know, just like every family, I have some stuff to work through, too, right?。
Because I don't want to hold him up as just what I said the Bible does not do.。
But he was a loving father, and he did not abuse us emotionally or physically.。
And so praise God.。
What an incredible testimony to that where you begin in life does not have to determine。
where you end up in life.。
Because if you invite God into your life, he can change the trajectory of your life,。
where you do not have to repeat, you do not have to continue in the patterns that were。
set by your parents.。
And he can break the power of sin and of brokenness in your life, and he can set you on a different。
trajectory.。
So God works in and through your life, no matter what your family background is, if。
you are surrendered to him.。
So if you did not receive the love that you were meant to love, if that was your starting。
point in life, that does not determine that that's where your life needs to finish.。
Because God can pour out his love.。
He can show you his love, the Father's love.。
He can place other people in your life that can show you love that you did not receive.。
And so God, he's inviting us, all of us, people with broken lives, people with messy families,。
messy backgrounds, to surrender to him and to ask him to come to our lives and break。
these patterns that cause so much pain.。
I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
Don't think that your less than perfect family situation will keep God from moving and working。
in your life.。
And when God works in your life, what he starts, he will bring to completion.。
Just like we see with a covenant promise, what he promised to Abraham, he is bringing。
to completion.。
He will move forward.。
God's purpose is God's plan in your life.。
It cannot be stopped when you live a life in relationship with him.。
And so I just want to do something very simple at the outset of the story of Joseph.。
I want to invite you, if you're like, "I need change in my life.。
I don't want to repeat what my father has done, what my mother has done.。
I don't want to repeat that pattern."。
You can stretch out your hand as a symbol of saying, "Jesus, I want to surrender my。
life to you.。
I want to surrender this situation to you because I need you to come into this situation。
and I need you to meet me.。
I need you to provide for me because I don't want to continue.。
I need change, Lord.。
I need something to change.。
I need your love to work in my life.。
I need hope."。
So I want to invite you to stand all right now.。
God changed my father's life.。
God changed Joseph's life, as we're going to see throughout the series.。
God has changed my life and he for sure can change your life.。
You know, whatever is going on is not the end point of your story.。
God has something new.。
He has something better for you.。
But he's inviting you right now to turn to him, to place your trust in him, to open up。
your life to him and say, "Lord, come into my life, work in my life, move in my life。
by your spirit, by your power because I need change.。
I need you to move, Holy Spirit.。
I need to know your love that was not shown to me.。
I need to find healing."。
So if that is you, I want to encourage you to stretch out your hands before you and I。
just want to pray over you right now.。
Jesus, I thank you so much for every single person here.。
Thank you that you are the God who works with messy and messed up people and messy families.。
That our mess is not the end point, but Lord Jesus, that you can come in, that you can。
turn chaos, you can turn something that is messy into something beautiful.。
And Jesus, I thank you for every outstretched hand right now.。
I pray that by your Holy Spirit, you'd fill your people right now.。
That you would fill your people right now with your love, with your hope.。
And that as your word says that if anyone is in Christ Jesus, he is a new creation.。
The old is gone, the new has come.。
Lord, we declare this newness right now.。
That what this pattern in our families was, what this hurt was, the old is gone, the new。
has come.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
That you are the perfecter of our story.。
That with you, our story takes a turn and it turns beautiful because of who you are.。
Not because of us, not because of perfection, but because of your grace, because of forgiveness,。
because of your mercy.。
So Holy Spirit, will you pour out your mercy over us right now.。
We say we need you, we long for you, we desperately desire for you to work in our lives.。
And we trust and we believe that something has shifted now.。
That this is a fresh start, a new beginning.。
Jesus, we give you all the praise.。
So I pray this in the name of Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
