Today I wanna speak about reconciliation.。
In simple terms, reconciliation is the process。
of making two people or groups of people friendly again。
after they've argued seriously or fought。
and kept apart from each other.。
But first, let me tell you about Mary Johnson.。
Mary lost her son in 1993 after a then-teenaged O'Shea Israel。
go into a fight with him at a party in Minneapolis,。
and he shot him.。
With so many questions unanswered,。
Mary Johnson went to visit O'Shea in jail.。
After her first contact, she said this,。
"I began to feel this movement in my feet.。
"It moved up my legs.。
"It just moved up my body.。
"When I felt it leave me, I instantly knew。
"that all hatred and anger and animosity。
"I had in my heart for you for 12 years was over.。
"I have totally forgiven you."。
Unbelievably, the two went on to live as neighbors。
in the same duplex, and Johnson even referred to Israel。
as her son in interviews.。
We have a picture of them here.。
Israel told Mary Johnson, "I admire you。
"for being brave enough to offer forgiveness。
"and for being brave enough to take that step.。
"It motivates me to make sure。
"that I stay on the right path."。
Last year, Mary passed away,。
and Israel served as a pallbearer at her funeral.。
Reconciliation.。
This morning, we come to Genesis 44。
as we continue through our story, the study of Joseph.。
Not only does the story of Joseph tell us。
how Israel wound up in Egypt,。
not only does it tell us how God made this family of Jacob。
into a great nation in accordance with his promises。
to Abraham in Genesis 12, 15, and 17,。
but God also shows us something。
of his strategy in redemption.。
Redemption with his people to bring blessing。
where there is alienation,。
to bring reconciliation where there is intense hostility.。
Our series has focused on the life of Joseph.。
Joseph began life, as we heard, as a favored son,。
and in the very context of that rivalry with his brothers,。
experienced the great humiliation of his life.。
He is sold into slavery.。
He serves well as a servant in the house of Potiphar.。
He finds himself falsely accused。
and imprisoned in a royal prison.。
He is finally released,。
and he is made the second-ranking official。
behind Pharaoh, his prime minister.。
But just as he has, with his own mouth and heart,。
uttered these words, look at these.。
God has made me forget my trouble。
and all my father's household.。
Just as he said that,。
the Lord brings his father's household。
right into his backyard。
and begins to do a work that not even Joseph could imagine.。
And so, as I say, we come now to Genesis 44,。
as Joseph's test reaches its great culmination.。
You remember last week's sermon from Justin.。
Joseph's family had been brought to Egypt。
because of the famine.。
He had kindly given them grain,。
though he had kept Simeon.。
They had been accused of being spies,。
and as an assurance they would return, Simeon was kept.。
And indeed, they did return as they promised,。
bringing their youngest brother, Benjamin,。
even though it took a great deal。
of persuading of Jacob, their father.。
But they did return with Benjamin,。
and again, they were treated greatly.。
They were feasted royally.。
They were treated kindly by Joseph.。
They brought into his own household.。
They separated with him.。
And now in this passage,。
they are preparing to depart.。
Let's read it.。
But Joseph has one more test to bring to bear。
on his brothers.。
Now Joseph gave these instructions。
to the steward of his house.。
Fill the man's sacks with as much food as they can carry,。
and put each man's silver in the mouth of his sack.。
Then, then put my cup, the silver one,。
in the mouth of the youngest one's sack,。
along with the silver for his grain.。
And he did as Joseph said.。
As the morning dawned, the men were sent out on their way。
with their donkeys.。
They had not gone far from the city。
when Joseph said to his steward,。
"Go after them men at once.。
"And when you catch up with them, say to them,。
"why have you repaid good with evil?。
"Isn't this the cup my master drinks from。
"and also uses for divination?。
"This is a wicked thing you have done."。
When he caught up with them,。
he repeated these words to him.。
But they said to him, "Why does my Lord say these things?。
"Far be it from your servants to do anything like that.。
"We even brought back to you from the land of Cain。
"and the silver we found inside the mouth of your sacks.。
"So why would we steal silver or gold。
"from your master's house?。
"If any of your servants is found to have it, he will die.。
"And the rest of us will become the Lord's slave."。
Now what we're gonna see is this.。
We will see that for reconciliation to take place,。
it involved three steps.。
And the first one is this.。
It involved a conspiracy, a conspiracy.。
Joseph and his brothers。
had just enjoyed a time of celebration.。
The brothers still do not know who Joseph is.。
But he's dropping hints there and then.。
For example, when he seats the brothers。
in chapter 43 at the table,。
they are, we are told,。
astonishingly seated in birth order.。
And we read that Benjamin, Joseph's only full brother,。
is given five times,。
five times as much as the rest of the brothers。
during the meal.。
All you can eat.。
Now the meal is over and the next day has dawned.。
The brothers are feeling pretty good about things.。
They've convinced the prime minister of Egypt。
that they're not spies.。
They have rescued their brother, Simeon, from prison.。
They are about to return home。
with more grain for the family, all their money,。
and most importantly,。
they are returning home with Benjamin,。
just as Judah had promised his father.。
So the morning dawns。
and the men take their grain and their animals。
and they set out towards home.。
No doubt, they are filled with excitement。
at going home to their families and children.。
No doubt, they are congratulating themselves。
on their successful mission to Egypt.。
But what they don't know。
is that God is working behind the scenes。
to bring them face to face with a sin.。
A sin some 22 years old.。
While the men are preparing to leave,。
Joseph tells the steward of his house。
to prepare the grain they need.。
His order is to give them as much as they can carry.。
In verse one, he tells the steward。
to give them their money back also.。
Then Joseph tells his steward to do something very strange.。
We see in verse two, he tells the man。
to take his personal cup。
and place it in the sack that belongs to Benjamin.。
This is done and the men set out towards home.。
When they've been gone a while,。
Joseph sets the steward after them to stop them。
and to confront them about the cup in Benjamin's sack.。
The steward follows them and accuses them。
of rewarding evil for good.。
We read earlier, he accuses them。
of stealing Joseph's silver cup, that's verse six.。
In verse seven, the brothers deny the charge。
and seek to defend their honour.。
They remind the steward that they have plenty of money.。
It isn't likely they would steal a cup.。
And in verse eight, they are so sure of their innocence,。
they make such strong promises.。
They swear in verse nine, that if the cup is found。
among them, the guilty brother will die。
and the rest will become slaves to the Egyptians.。
Think about this for a moment.。
This is a very strange way for Joseph。
to treat his brothers.。
A very strange way for Joseph to treat his brothers.。
In this passage, God uses Joseph as an instrument。
to draw these men to a place of repentance and restoration.。
We saw, do you remember in week two, long time ago,。
22 years before, that these men had conspired,。
Genesis 37, against Joseph in an effort to get rid of him.。
They had conspired to Joseph's harm.。
Now the tables are turned and Joseph conspires against them.。
But unlike his brothers, he is not conspiring。
in an effort to harm them.。
He is conspiring for their good.。
Now, we need to remember there are no accidents in life.。
If you're a child of God, every event of your life,。
according to Romans 8, 28, is a product of divine providence。
that God is working out.。
Isaiah 55 describes his will in your life。
in ways that you and I cannot begin to comprehend.。
And this even includes the way that God deals with our sins.。
There are times when we allow,。
we allow sin to abide in our lives.。
After a while, we could get so used to sin's presence。
to the point where it no longer bothers us.。
Or we may come away thinking, ah, we got away with it,。
with some sin or other.。
Because we've not faced judgment。
or chastisement over that sin.。
The fact is, God knows exactly when and how。
to speak to our hearts.。
When the time is right,。
He will touch all the right buttons to humble us。
and bring us to a place of repentance.。
God knows how to get our attention.。
And He is not afraid to touch or take。
what He pleases to speak to our hearts.。
He has a silver cup, a silver cup,。
that He can place in our lives to open our eyes。
when we have walked away from Him.。
My friends, sooner or later,。
the silver cup will end up in your sack.。
And I'll say it again.。
Sooner or later, the silver cup will end up in your sack.。
We've come to believe we can get away with sin.。
Like Adam and Eve, we think we can cover it up。
with flimsy fig leaves of our own making.。
God, however, will settle for nothing less。
than total confession and repentance.。
And the best thing a believer can do。
is to get sin out into the open as soon as possible.。
The best thing we can do with sin,。
according to 1 John 1:9,。
is to hate it, forsake it, and confess it to Him.。
When we refuse, there will be a high price。
to pay for our disobedience.。
We may not understand it all,。
but this is what is happening in these verses.。
God is in the process of burning the barley fields。
of these brothers of Joseph.。
God is in the process of getting their attention.。
He is conspiring to bring them back to Him.。
So yes, it involved a conspiracy.。
But secondly, it also involved a confrontation.。
Verse 10.。
Very well then, he said, let it be as you say.。
Whoever is found to have it will become my slave.。
The rest of you will be free from blame.。
Each of them quickly lowered his sack。
to the ground and opened it.。
Then the steward proceeded to search,。
beginning with the oldest and ending with the youngest.。
And the cup was found in Benjamin's sack.。
The cup was found in Benjamin's sack.。
At this, they tore their clothes,。
then they all loaded their donkeys and returned to the city.。
The sacks were opened and searched.。
These brothers knew they'd done nothing wrong.。
Can you see them standing there。
with smug expressions on their faces?。
As each sack is opened and the silver cup is not found,。
they grow more and more confident.。
But when they open Benjamin's sack,。
to their disbelief, their glistening in Benjamin's sack。
is Joseph's silver cup.。
This is the moment of truth.。
This is Joseph's final test of his brothers.。
All this time, Joseph has been testing them。
to see whether or not they've changed.。
Now note, they've passed several tests already.。
They brought Benjamin back, as Joseph has requested.。
They returned for their brother, Simeon.。
They even returned all the grain money。
they had been given back.。
This is the ultimate test.。
22 years earlier, they had hated Joseph so much。
that they attacked him, cast him in a pit,。
and sold him into slavery.。
They had broken their father's heart。
by lying to him about what happened to Joseph.。
They had maintained that lie for all these years.。
And now, they have the opportunity。
to get rid of the other son of Rachel.。
It is clear from the text that Jacob loves Benjamin.。
It seems clear that Benjamin had replaced Joseph。
as the father's favorite son.。
But all they have to do is this,。
allow Benjamin to be arrested, take him back to Joseph.。
They can simply go home.。
It would obviously break the heart of their father,。
but he'd enjoyed other heartbreaks in the past.。
This is the ultimate test.。
These men do not know it,。
but they are about to reveal to Joseph。
what kind of men they have become.。
And these men passed the test with flying colors.。
They do not know how the cup got into Benjamin's sack.。
At that point, that particular fact doesn't even matter,。
but they are determined to face whatever comes together.。
They tear their clothes off as a sign of grief,。
and they go to face the music as one.。
There are no accusations thrown at each other.。
There are no compromises.。
There is simply a unified resolve to stand by their brother.。
What we see here is a picture of 10 men。
who are finally ready to do the right thing.。
Here are 10 men who have finally grown up。
and are willing to face whatever consequences。
they are together.。
These men have grown to the point。
when they can see beyond themselves.。
They have a desire to do right。
regardless of the personal cost.。
My friends, that is the place。
that God wants us to reach as well.。
He wants us to come to the place。
where we stop making excuses for our behavior.。
He wants us to come to the place。
where we are willing to own up to our sins.。
God wants us to stop pointing the finger at others.。
My sins are not my parents' fault.。
I can't blame my evil on my wife or my surroundings.。
If I'm gonna enjoy cleansing and forgiveness,。
I have to deal with my sins openly and honestly.。
If I'm gonna have the power of God on my life,。
then I have to do the right thing.。
God wants us to reach the place。
where we are willing to do the right thing。
regardless of personal cost.。
Have you reached that place?。
Have I reached that place?。
We can with His help.。
I don't know about you, but I wanna get there.。
God is not afraid to confront us。
at the very point of our sins。
in order to open our eyes to a need for repentance.。
These brothers are facing the things they are facing。
because God is determined to get their attention。
and bring them back into a right relationship with Him.。
He will do the same in your life and mine.。
The best thing we can do with God is to keep short accounts.。
Sin should be confessed immediately,。
completely, and honestly.。
When it is, it can be forgiven.。
And the blessings of God can freely flow into our lives.。
And this introduces our third step.。
Yes, it involves a conspiracy.。
Secondly, it involves a confrontation.。
But thirdly, it involves a confession.。
When the brothers arrived back at Joseph's palace,。
they still find him there.。
Verse 14, Joseph was still in the house。
when Judah and the brothers came in。
and they threw themselves to the ground before him.。
And no doubt, Joseph was waiting to see who would show up.。
Would it be Benjamin alone?。
Or would the rest of the brothers be with him?。
By the way, this little trick may have been Joseph's way。
of protecting Benjamin from his brothers.。
When the brothers appear before Joseph,。
they bow themselves to the ground before him.。
And just like last week, this fulfills the dreams。
that Joseph had as a young man.。
Go to Genesis 37, five to 11.。
Joseph confronts his brothers about the silver cup.。
At this point, Judah steps forward。
and delivers one of the most profound。
and eloquent speeches in the whole Bible.。
A careful examination of this speech。
will show just how far Judah has matured.。
In verse 16, Judah confesses their sin.。
What can we say to my Lord?。
What can we say?。
How can we prove our innocence?。
God has uncovered your servant's guilt.。
We are now, my Lord, slaves.。
We ourselves and the one who was found to have the cup.。
He doesn't name names.。
But he does confess the fact that they had sin。
and God was punishing them for their sin.。
He seemed to believe that what they are about to face,。
slavery in Egypt, is a direct result。
of their unconfessed sin.。
He offers himself along with all the rest of the brothers。
as Joseph's servants.。
In verse 17, we see that Joseph refuses Judah's offer。
and tells him and the rest of the brothers to go home.。
He tells him that Benjamin,。
Benjamin will have to stay as a slave.。
The verses 18 to 34, we don't have time to go through them,。
are the heart of Judah's speech.。
He reminds Joseph that the only reason Benjamin had come。
was because Joseph had demanded it.。
Judah then tells Joseph that Jacob will die。
if anything happens to his youngest son.。
Next, and this is important,。
Judah offers himself in Benjamin's place.。
He offers to stay in Egypt as Joseph's slave。
so that Benjamin can return to Canaan。
with the other brothers.。
This is the moment,。
this is the moment that Joseph has been waiting for.。
He's been waiting and working。
since his brothers showed up in Egypt.。
He sees that they have changed.。
He sees that the brothers are willing。
to stand together as one man.。
They had the chance to turn their backs on Benjamin,。
but they didn't.。
Judah stands up and puts his father, Benjamin,。
and the rest of the brothers ahead of himself.。
It's interesting, isn't it?。
That the guilty offers himself。
as a substitute for the innocent.。
But there will be another lion of the tribe of Judah。
who is innocent,。
who would offer himself as a substitute for the guilty.。
And his name is Jesus.。
This is a major turning point in the story.。
When Joseph hears Judah's confession。
and sees his love for the family in action,。
it's more than he can stand.。
Joseph breaks down before his brothers。
and reveals his identity to them.。
We read,。
Joseph made himself known to his brothers.。
Today, there is a lesson that we need to take to heart.。
Judah shows us how sin is to be handled.。
His actions also remind us of the very nature of sin.。
Let's consider those two thoughts before we close today.。
Firstly, sin by its very nature is a very selfish thing.。
When sin entered the world,。
it entered because Eve was selfish.。
She chose herself over the Lord, Genesis 3.。
When sin entered the universe,。
it entered through selfishness.。
Every sin that we commit is rooted in selfishness.。
Secondly, our sins are all about us.。
When we choose ourselves over every other person。
and over every other thing, we are saying,。
I want what I want and I do not care about the consequences.。
I repeat, sin is a very selfish act.。
When we sin, we are choosing ourselves over God,。
over His will, over the church, over our families,。
over everything but our own selfish wants,。
desires and wishes.。
Sin is rooted in selfishness.。
But when our hearts are as they should be,。
the Lord, His will and the needs of others。
will come before our own desires.。
You know you're making progress in the Lord。
when you refuse to sin。
because of how it will affect the Lord's work。
and how it will affect others.。
I'll be honest with you, most people turn away from sin。
because they're afraid of being caught.。
But a mature believer looks at sin。
and sees the damage it can do to the church,。
the community, the Lord's work, the family and others.。
The only way to get past sin is to deal with it honestly.。
Like Judah, we have to come to the place。
where we confess our sins and get them out before the Lord。
and before those we have sinned against.。
Sin must not be hidden.。
It must be confessed openly and early.。
When it is, the Lord can extend forgiveness。
and restoration.。
The sin can be put behind you。
and you can move on in the Lord.。
All my friends, if Joseph in this scheme。
knew how to search out the hearts of his brothers,。
how much more does God know how to search our hearts?。
In 3 John verse four, John says this,。
"I have no greater joy than to hear。
that my children walk in truth."。
John was saying that his greatest joy as a preacher。
and an apostle was to see the people he ministered to。
growing and walking in the truth he had taught them.。
I know how he feels.。
That's the same feeling that must have gripped。
the heart of Joseph as he looked at Judah,。
saw his broken heart and heard his heartfelt words.。
The brothers of Joseph had finally grown up.。
And they were ready to make things right.。
And the importance of this, my friends, is this.。
There can be no reconciliation without repentance.。
Can I say that again?。
There can be no reconciliation without repentance.。
As I bring these thoughts to a close today,。
let me ask you a couple of questions.。
First one of this, are you growing in the Lord?。
How would you know?。
You can know that you are growing in your relationship。
with the Lord when you begin to hate sin.。
You know you are growing when you are willing。
to tell the truth about your sins.。
You know you are growing when you reach the place。
where you are more concerned about others。
than you are about yourself.。
Second question, are there sins in your life。
that need to be confessed?。
Maybe you need to get before the Lord today。
and deal with some sin in your life.。
Maybe you need to go to someone you've hurt。
and confess that hurt to them.。
Things will never be as they could until you do.。
And lastly, are you afraid。
there might be a silver cup in your future?。
If you know there are areas of your life。
that are not where you need to be with the Lord。
and you fear that he might resort to drastic measures。
to get your attention, you need to come to him。
and deal with the matter now.。
Do you know that if sin is on your mind today,。
it's the Holy Spirit calling you to come to God。
to deal with the matter.。
In my opinion, it is far better to come before the Lord。
in humble repentance than it is to wait for him。
to burn your barley fields.。
If the Lord has spoken to your heart on any level,。
you need to come to him today。
and do what he is telling you to do.。
You do what he would have you to do.。
As I ask the band to come back,。
we're now gonna have an act of reconciliation.。
So could the band come back?。
If there's anyone here today who has no sin,。
you better come to the front and pray for the rest of us.。
I believe this is a hard word for us,。
but there's an answer.。
We need to come before God.。
I'm gonna ask you if you're able to kneel.。
If you're not able to kneel, just to sit,。
but I want you to take this seriously.。
We're gonna have an act of reconciliation together。
before God.。
(soft music)。
If I can get down at 72, you can all get down.。
The Holy Spirit is gonna do something here now.。
And to help me, I'm gonna use some words。
from the book of common prayer.。
These are the words I was just referring to earlier。
from 1 John 1, 8 and 9.。
"If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves。
"and the truth is not in us.。
"But if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just。
"to forgive us our sins and cleanse us。
"from all unrighteousness."。
Holy Spirit come.。
Holy Spirit come.。
Holy Spirit come.。
(soft music)。
Almighty God, our heavenly Father,。
we have sinned against you and against our fellow men。
in thought and word and deed.。
Through negligence, through weakness,。
through our own deliberate fault.。
We are truly sorry and repent of all our sins。
for the sake of your Son, Jesus Christ, who died for us.。
Forgive us all that is past.。
I grant that we may serve you in newness of life.。
To the glory of your name.。
Amen.。
Just allow the Holy Spirit just to work.。
Just as the Lord brings things to your mind,。
offer them to Him.。
Allow Him to work.。
(soft music)。
I believe this is such a significant time for us。
as a church today.。
As we lay down these things before Him.。
You know, this was a sin that happened 22 years beforehand.。
And there may be some things。
that have just been lingering around in your life.。
Just bring them before God.。
Holy Spirit, just come as we offer these to you.。
Give us assurance of our forgiveness.。
Fill us up, Lord.。
I also feel that while we're on our knees,。
we need to pray for our world today.。
This thing of blame, this thing of conflict,。
so prevalent in our society all across the world.。
Lord, we pray for country leaders, for church leaders.。
(soft music)。
Pray for the need to get before you,。
to get before each other and say, "Sorry."。
For this church, Lord divine in you alone,。
I just pray that you will restore relationships.。
Lord, that we would see people with different eyes.。
We see them as you see them.。
Help us to be people who are more ready to forgive。
than we are to blame.。
Come Holy Spirit and do a new work in our lives.。
Change us from the inside out.。
As the band leads us in our final song,。
if you're happy to stay on your knees, just stay here.。
Let's worship God together.。
He's called us to be family.。
He's called us to be one.。
He's called us to be united.。
Take away the love of sinning.。
Just bring to your body here, your righteousness,。
your peace and your unity.。
Let's worship God together.。
