First of all, Happy New Year, everyone.。
Happy New Year.。
So lovely to come to Yuen Long.。
I think this is the furthest I've traveled during the New Year to Yuen Long.。
But it's very lovely to worship with you and seeing new faces, old faces, old friends,。
and also seeing the kids growing a lot taller since the last time I was here.。
It's really lovely to be here.。
So, yeah, hope you are enjoying your family time, your public holiday,。
perhaps some Chinese food as well.。
So if you don't really celebrate CNY, I hope you enjoy some time off this week as well.。
So in case I might be new to some of you, so I'm Jennifer.。
I grew up in Hong Kong.。
My family is a very traditional Chinese family.。
So every year as a kid, CNY is a big thing for my family to celebrate together.。
And I am the only Christian of my family.。
I'm still the only Christian.。
So for my family, they really hold on to the traditions of CNY.。
And they believe that following those traditions will bring us blessings and good luck for the whole year.。
So growing up, I'm in an environment that my parents would make sure that I only say good things during CNY.。
Maybe there are certain things I can't do.。
I can't wash my hair on a certain day and things like that,。
which is a little bit interesting to me growing up.。
But yeah, this is how I'm raised.。
And there is one tradition that I must do every year,。
which is on the New Year day, the first day of the CNY,。
I have to, whenever I get up, before I brush my teeth,。
I go to my parents' bedroom and I need to say at least three greetings to them.。
And until they are satisfied, they will give me a Lai Si.。
Yeah, my mom is the one who's strict.。
She could reject my blessing and say another one.。
And unless she is satisfied, then I will get my Lai Si.。
So I'm sure you've heard of this if you were around Hong Kong for a while,。
like Gong Hei Fa Choy, wish you get rich,。
and Sun Tai Gin Hong, wish you good health.。
These are the common things that we say to one another during CNY.。
And also for the married couple,。
that they will give Lai Si to the unmarried one,。
which is a sign of blessing as well.。
So that says that during CNY,。
the whole city will go around to bless one another。
or to get blessings from other things.。
And you will see maybe culturally that they will go for fortune telling。
or go to the temples as well.。
So this year, this time of the year,。
that the whole city is chasing the blessings from one another。
or from different things.。
And perhaps you don't really observe the CNY tradition,。
but the tension of how do we get blessings is actually everywhere.。
For example, there are always different myths in different cities。
that how we can get blessed.。
Let me show you the picture when I was in Rome,。
that the famous fountain, Trivia Fountain,。
that in fact, every day there are many tourists。
who toss the coins in the fountain.。
Hopefully they get blessed.。
And if you don't know,。
like each day they cleared from the bottom of the fountain,。
they find 3,000 euros each day by the tourists.。
It's amazing.。
So you see how people really want to get blessed.。
And if you have traveled to Europe,。
they will tell you there are certain ways you cross the bridge。
or you touch a random statue that you will get blessed.。
And in fact, that happened in Vatican as well.。
I was told that if you touch, I think, the right foot of Peter's statue,。
that you will get blessed.。
And I'm like, it doesn't hurt to do that,。
but is this really how we get blessed as Christians?。
So today we will look into the scripture later,。
but perhaps let's ask ourselves some questions。
around when we are at the timing。
that everyone is trying to get blessed in the city,。
that how should we approach blessings as Christians?。
And what's the difference between God's blessings。
and "lai si" or saying "gong hei fat choy" to each other?。
And more importantly, how do we dwell in the blessing of God?。
So today we will look into some scripture,。
but in fact, like the theme of blessing is everywhere in the Bible.。
And as a church, we've just gone through the series of Beatitude。
that we look into Jesus' blessing for us.。
And in Genesis, we see blessing everywhere as well.。
It says God blessing Noah and his family,。
blessing Abraham and how the blessing passed from generations to generations.。
And so we see that God does bless people.。
God does want to bless us.。
So today we will look into a very, perhaps a very famous blessing in the Bible。
to see how God bless people。
and how we can reflect on how we approach God's blessings as God's people today.。
So we will look into the preceding blessing in Numbers chapter 6.。
Let me give a little bit of context before we look into the passage itself.。
So at the point we reach Numbers,。
Abraham's descendants has grown into a nation.。
In that sense, his promise to Abraham has actually fulfilled。
and at the same time, they're not just one family unit,。
but a whole nation, many, many, many families staying together.。
So it was way more complicated。
in terms of how does following God look like as a nation, as such a big group of people.。
And God has anointed Moses to lead Israel out of Egypt.。
And he has given Moses, through Moses, he has given Israel a very detailed law。
in how they should live as a people of God, as a society.。
So in here, chapter 6, it includes God's blessing to the congregation of people.。
And this is how the priest bless the people as well,。
if you are Jewish or for the Jewish people.。
And some Christian pastors actually use this passage as well to do the benediction,。
which means it is really a passage widely used for blessing God's people.。
And more importantly, the language itself is instructed by God himself.。
So in fact, God is saying, if I am to bless people, this is what it looks like.。
So let's go through the passage together.。
Numbers chapter 6, verses 22 to 27.。
The Lord said to Moses, tell Aaron and his sons,。
this is how you are to bless the Israelites.。
Say to them, the Lord bless you and keep you.。
The Lord makes his face shine on you and be gracious to you.。
The Lord turn his face towards you and give you peace.。
So they will put my name on the Israelites and I will bless them.。
I think many of us are quite familiar with this passage,。
as there is a whole worship song derived from this passage.。
But have we wondered what does the individual words mean?。
What does all the verbs mean?。
What does it mean to bless, to keep?。
And perhaps what does it mean if God makes his face shine upon you?。
Have we thought about that?。
And today we will break down these words today, word by word,。
so that we can reflect together as a people of God,。
how God's blessing means to us.。
Are we ready?。
Yes? Wonderful.。
So let's start with the first one.。
The Lord bless you and keep you.。
So bless and keep might be a broader term that we use in our day-to-day conversation as well.。
And let's start with bless.。
Bless is also a very broad term in general,。
but it has a quite specific meaning and content in the Old Testament.。
So in Old Testament, usually it's referring to God blesses people by giving them children,。
property, land, the product of the land, good health, and also presence.。
So there are different ways that God bless.。
But if we think about it, the blessing is actually related to his promise.。
Let's take Abraham as an example.。
God has promised to Abraham that he will make him into a great nation.。
But at that time, Abraham did not have any descendants yet.。
And so the challenge Abraham was facing was actually barrenness, famine,。
and threats that potentially killed the whole family.。
So God's blessings to Abraham was around giving him the descendants.。
This is very important.。
And also they will live and the descendants will live so that his promise will be fulfilled.。
And now in the book of Numbers, apparently they have grown into a nation,。
which means that the promise of God was fulfilled already.。
And God has delivered them from the threat of Egypt。
and also provided and protected them in their journey in the wilderness so far.。
And God's promise to them at that point is to lead them into the promised land.。
So there is a sense of anticipating into the land.。
So the blessing in the book of Numbers is related to their descendants,。
to fruitful lands, to good health, to long life,。
to protection from enemies and God's presence being with them.。
That says God does bless in a tangible way.。
We can hear that like the fruits of the land, the land itself is a very tangible way。
how God bless people.。
He provides for them and he protects them in different situations they face.。
And same to us today, our God is the same God。
who provides and who bless in a tangible way.。
Perhaps it looks different than going into a promised land。
or having manna in the wilderness.。
But across these years, I've heard so many testimonies。
from our brothers and sisters that God provides financially,。
that God gives children, that God heals the sickness among us,。
and also bringing families to reunion in many, many different ways.。
So let us be reminded that God is a God who blesses in tangible ways.。
Not sure what you are going through today, in what circumstances,。
or you're waiting for a blessing from God,。
but may this be an encouragement to you that God still does that.。
God still blesses in many, many different ways.。
And to unpack God's blessings further, let's look at the word "keep" as well.。
The word is usually used in a sense of watching over,。
preserving, sustaining, and protection,。
which is a blessing very needed by Israel at that time.。
They were on the way to enter into the promised land.。
If we think about it, the challenge and the threats are all over the place.。
First of all, in the wilderness, where do they find food?。
So God protected them and provided them in a way that。
manna would fall from the sky and they just need to collect them。
and follow God's instructions by taking them.。
And also, there's such a large group of people wandering around in the wilderness.。
So what would the people think?。
What would the people who live around that area think?。
They probably see them as a big threat,。
that, "Oh, are they taking our land? Are they fighting us?"。
Which means attack can come anytime, anywhere, as they are in the wilderness.。
And they definitely need God's protection in that sense.。
And more importantly, they are to conquer the promised land,。
which means there will be four walls involved,。
and they need God's protection even more in that sense.。
But this is only the external threats that they are facing.。
But at the same time, there is an aspect of internal threat as well,。
that they will and they are constantly facing the temptation of disobeying God,。
turn to other gods, or complaining against God's protection.。
And there were incidents where God wants to literally kill them all on the spot.。
So there is another layer of the meaning of this word, "keep."。
Across the Old Testament, the word is frequently used in a sense of keeping the covenant.。
So we know that God enters into a covenant with Israel,。
that he will be the God of Israel and protect them。
and bless the generations after generations with Israel.。
And by this, with frequently using the "keep" according to the Old Testament,。
Israel is repeatedly called to keep the commandment,。
to keep the law of Moses,。
and to keep the testimonies and the covenant of the Lord.。
So there is a sense of obedience to the revealed instructions in the word itself.。
And the biggest purpose of these laws and instructions is to allow Israelites。
to know how to follow God, to know how to be God's people,。
and to stay on God's path and not going astray.。
And the covenant requires both sides, the promise is from God as well,。
as Israel keeps, the Lord keeps as well.。
So the Lord says in Deuteronomy 7,。
he says, "If you, the Israel, pay attention to these laws and are careful to follow them,。
then the Lord your God will keep his covenant of love with you,。
as he swore to your ancestors."。
You see from the scripture, it actually reveals the heart of God,。
that he really wants to remain in the covenantal relationship with Israel.。
And I wonder what it means to us today.。
When we live under the new covenant,。
the keeping might look a little bit different than following the Mosaic law.。
But God's desire to keep the relationship remains the same to us.。
He wants us to follow his path, to follow his leading.。
His leading might not look like a pillar of cloud or fire today,。
but we have the Holy Spirit in us,。
who guides us, who leads us,。
who helps us to know Jesus and to follow Jesus,。
and to stay on God's path.。
So I'm not sure about you,。
I do feel that having God to keep me, keep us on the path and not going astray,。
is the biggest blessing that God gave me.。
So growing up as a Christian, I always wanted God not to give me the option to violate his will.。
I want him to just give me the option to follow him so that I don't do anything stupid.。
But apparently that's not the case.。
God does give us the free will so that we can follow him and we follow him willfully.。
I think I've shared this around two years ago,。
that I sensed that I have a ministry calling since I was in uni.。
And I started studying part-time in seminary while working full-time as a paralegal,。
because I wasn't quite sure what ministry calling meant to me at that time.。
So when I was getting ready, and after some years,。
I felt like, "Oh, I think it's time for me to serve God full-time."。
So I made a move, I applied for full-time study in seminary, but I got rejected.。
So I was very confused, I really struggled with that rejection.。
I thought God has called me, but it felt to me that God did not bless me in that sense。
by rejecting me into seminary.。
So I was confused, I struggled for a few years,。
and then I've decided to take a break, and then I ended up coming to Define.。
And so, fast forward to around early 2020, I was praying,。
"Oh God, so what do you want me to do? What's my next steps now?"。
I was quite impatient in that sense.。
So I was trying to make some plans and ask God if that's it, that's his will.。
So I made a move, I applied for a role at Define, but I didn't get hired.。
So I thought, "Oh yeah, maybe God did not call me to Define."。
So I continued, and I was wondering how should I develop my career as well.。
So I applied for other paralegal roles, but it was so weird。
that I did not offer one single interview.。
And with my experience, I thought it's impossible.。
And apparently it was possible.。
So I was like, "What is going on?"。
And then until later in 2020, almost the end of 2020,。
Tim approached me and asked me if I wanted to join the pastoral team of Define.。
And at that time I was like, "No, I think God said it's not Define."。
So I said no immediately to Tim, and he cried.。
And then when I got home that day, I was praying,。
and then the Holy Spirit was like, "I thought you said you're ready to serve me anytime."。
And then I was like, "Oh, that's it? That is it?"。
And then I'm like, "Oh no, what have I done?"。
But still, I wanted to make sure that I'm held accountable,。
so I asked my two close friends to pray with me.。
And then after a few days, I reached out to Tim, so I changed my mind.。
"Can you send me to JD, please?"。
So that's how I ended up being here.。
And now, actually it's crazy, this year is my sixth year serving at Define full-time.。
And looking back, I was amazed by how God kept me on His path,。
even though there are things that I did not expect or I struggled a little bit.。
And these five-ish years, I wouldn't say it's a very easy one,。
that sometimes I struggle, sometimes I want to give up,。
but the Holy Spirit is the one who encourages me and also keeps me on His path.。
And it's amazing to see that, looking back,。
there are a lot of signs that God stepped in and kept me on His path.。
So that said, the reality is there are times that we humans go astray, even for a pastor.。
And God knows it already.。
Perhaps we can get to know God's heart a little bit more together。
by reading into the next verse,。
"The Lord make His face shine on you and be gracious to you."。
What an imagery here.。
Not sure how you feel after reading this, but when I read this,。
I'm like, "Yeah, I think it's a positive thing, but what does it mean?"。
So what does it mean by God shining His face on us?。
Let's look into the Psalms and see how it was used to understand a little bit further.。
So in Psalm 31, it says, "Let your face, God's face, shine on your servant.。
Save me in your unfailing love."。
And in Psalm 80, it says, "Restore us, O God.。
Make your face shine on us, that we may be saved."。
We see from the Psalms that when God shines His face on us, we will be saved,。
which means that we can understand this image as God's love and salvation,。
which is God's character as well.。
But there is also a more profound meaning in this imagery.。
We need to understand what's the opposite of it.。
What does it mean if God covers His face?。
There are psalmists using this imagery of God hiding His face to represent。
God is allowing His people to suffer.。
So but why would God allow His people to suffer?。
And then we go back to Deuteronomy again, that God actually foresees。
Israel will rebel against Him, and this imagery of hiding His face is used there.。
Let's read Deuteronomy 31, verses 17 to 18.。
"And in that day, I will become angry with them and forsake them.。
I will hide my face from them, so they will be destroyed.。
Many disasters and calamities will come on them.。
And in that day, they will ask, 'Have not these disasters come on us。
because our God is not with us?'。
And I will certainly hide my face in that day because of all the wickedness。
in turning to other gods."。
So we see from this passage that it was Israel's unfaithfulness。
which makes God hiding His face.。
From this imagery, we see that God shines His face, means He is looking at us.。
He is seeing what's going on with us and showing us mercy and grace,。
which reveals God's loving character to us, that He loves us no matter what we do,。
and He desires for us to remain in the relationship with Him.。
And He wants to be close to us.。
And that's right, God would like His people to always be obedient,。
to always stay on His path, but at the same time, He knows that there are times。
humans will be unfaithful, and with this blessing, God is saying to us,。
to Israel, that even when there are times we are unfaithful,。
He has mercy and compassion when He sees us.。
And when He looks and when He shines His face on us,。
He will save us even though we are unfaithful in the first place.。
So this is essentially the second half of the first,。
that the blessing is God is gracious to us.。
And the literal meaning of being gracious is a heartfelt inclination of a superior。
to show favor, to show compassion and generosity to one in need.。
This emphasize is on the unearned mercy, not a contractual obligation.。
So God did have a choice to continue to act according to the covenant,。
according to justice, but He will choose to be gracious to us.。
And this is who our God is.。
I wonder how this blessing speaks to us today,。
that even shows us a deeper sense of God, that He wants to remain in our relationship。
with His people and with us.。
And yes, there are times that we fall, we admit that as human,。
we've been there before, that we sin against Him.。
And God knows it already.。
And by this blessing, He is telling us that He will choose to be loving。
and to be gracious to us.。
This is His character.。
And I don't know about you, sometimes we're human,。
like Adam and Eve, when we realize we sin against Him,。
we want to hide, but God is saying the opposite.。
That if that's one of you that you want to hide your face from God,。
let this blessing be a reminder that He wants to see us,。
He wants to remain with us.。
And we can always go back to our God and Father to ask for His grace.。
And as He looks at us, as He shines His faith upon us,。
His heart will incline to us and show favor to us.。
I wonder how it speaks to you today.。
God's blessing is so rich, and there's more, even more from there.。
So let's look into the final part of the blessing,。
which reveals the heart of God for His people.。
The Lord turns His face towards you and gives you peace.。
So there's another imagery here.。
So what does it mean when God turns His face towards us?。
So by definition in the Old Testament, God lifting His face is an expression.。
And it is an expression referring to an appearance of the countenance。
of expressive of pleasure and affection.。
And functionally, it's equal to a smile.。
So in other words, God lifting His face towards us。
means that He is accepting us, that He is delight,。
and He is pleased with us.。
What an imagery here.。
So how about we think of it for a second.。
What does it make you feel when you see God is smiling at you。
knowing that He is pleased?。
If you ask me, perhaps this might be the biggest desire in my life,。
that knowing God is pleased by who I am and what I do.。
And I would imagine the closest human experience is similar to。
hearing your parents say, "I'm proud of you."。
Or someone important to you saying that to you.。
So again, my family is a very stereotyped Asian family.。
I seldom hear words of affirmation from them.。
If I don't get an A, I'm not allowed to have dinner,。
and something like that.。
No judgment to my family, but you know, some cultures like that,。
it's very hard for us to express our affirmation,。
our approval to the people around us.。
But indeed I heard it once, like recently,。
two years ago when I first preached here,。
that I invited my dad, and he was here,。
he left right after the service, but the next day he texted me.。
Yes, texted.。
He sent me a WhatsApp and said, "I'm proud of you."。
And then I'm like, "Oh, wow, I think this is my first time,。
if I remember correctly."。
And I think that's a very close feeling to when I know。
God is pleased with me.。
So I don't know what your upbringing is,。
I don't know whether you hear that a lot,。
but God is our heavenly Father.。
And He is saying that He is pleased with us.。
And He is indeed smiling at us because He is pleased to see us.。
So this is our God.。
This is our God we serve, and He turns His face to us。
and gives us this approval smile.。
And let's try to sit under this smile today。
and bear that in mind that our heavenly Father is pleased by us.。
And that smile of God brings the ultimate peace.。
And that peace isn't understood in the modern sense。
that it's absence of war or conflict,。
but this peace is described as completeness,。
unity and well-being and wholeness.。
And more importantly, this peace,。
we might know that it's shalom in Hebrew。
that is frequently used in the Old Testament,。
is the result of God's creation in Genesis 1,。
that a world filled with fruitful,。
blessed life in all is wholeness.。
So we see that although God's blessings evolved。
according to people's circumstances of Israel and us。
in different seasons,。
but there are things that does not change,。
that God still hope us as human will experience。
and restore that shalom He intended for the world.。
So this final verse of blessing contains God's purpose。
and God's intention for humanity at all time,。
the picture of shalom,。
that human is created to rule over God's creation。
and bring it into the fullness of flourishings.。
So this is God's intention for us and for creation.。
And when He looks at that,。
when He looks at the creation,。
He gives that approval smile.。
So that reveals God's ultimate heart for us,。
that even after the fall of humanity,。
that He still has the same purpose for us,。
for Abraham.。
He wants all people on the earth will be blessed by Him,。
and for Israel to carry that blessings to all the nations.。
And of course, for the death and resurrection of Jesus。
that give us the grace and the restoration of human purpose.。
So today, as His church,。
we are carrying that purpose to restore the shalom to all creations.。
So as we celebrate CNY today,。
as we are starting off the year to bless one another,。
so how can we carry this blessing to the people around us?。
And here at the Fine, we believe that as Christians,。
we are like we have received the grace。
and we contribute to that shalom God intends for His creation.。
We can bring God's love, God's hope to the people around us.。
So as we are continuing to celebrate with our families,。
with our friends,。
maybe we go back to work tomorrow.。
And throughout the times that we communicate。
and spend time with different people,。
let's be present and carry that blessing to the people around us.。
And finally, I want to highlight one more thing to us,。
that in the whole blessing, God's name has repeated three times.。
While grammatically in Hebrew,。
it does not have to repeat in that sense,。
but the repetition here emphasize that。
the Lord is the source of all blessing.。
He does instruct the priest to bless His people.。
However, the source of the blessing does not come from the priest。
or does not come from the words itself.。
The word does not carry magic power。
that when we say that, blessing will come.。
But God Himself is the source of all the blessing.。
And we need to remember that the source of blessing is in Him and Him only.。
So the priestly blessing has a very strong sense that。
the blessing comes from our close relationship with God,。
that we keep walking on God's path。
and God keeps us in the relationship and bless us.。
So let's be reminded of that.。
And if we look, continue to read the Bible,。
we will see that after Israel entered into the Promised Land,。
they divided the land, they started to own more,。
they have fruit from the land,。
and they were tempted to follow other gods.。
And God knew it in the first place and has warned them,。
but they got distracted and chased after different blessing。
or idols and forget about God.。
And same to us in the city of Hong Kong.。
There are also different temptations.。
In the CNY season, we are seeing different people doing different practice,。
maybe going to different gods to get blessings.。
And also, it does not only happen in the other gods。
or traditions that we are following.。
In the city of Hong Kong,。
the biggest temptation that we are tempted to own more and more,。
to earn more and more,。
and then we rely on what we own and feel content about it.。
So could it be a way that we are tempted to find blessing。
in other things in the city of Hong Kong?。
So let's be reminded of what our source of blessing is.。
This is our God.。
He always intends to bless His people.。
His blessing might not get you rich, to clarify that,。
but He desires to be close to you.。
He loves you and He is proud of you.。
And His blessing is always enough for us.。
And for that, a relationship always requires both parties to commit.。
It requires us to respond to Him as well.。
So let me ask ourselves a question.。
Are we content with God's blessing?。
In the culture of always wanting more and more,。
are we willing to be content with what God has for us?。
When God promised us that He will always be faithful to us,。
are we happy to be faithful to Him and find blessing in Him only?。
God never requires us to be perfect, but He wants us to be faithful.。
He wants us to stay close to Him and know Him,。
to carry His name to the people around us.。
And that's the way to make Him smile.。
So I don't know what resonates with you with this blessing,。
and I would like to read the blessing over you again.。
So as we prepare our hearts, may I invite you to stand。
as we receive the blessing from God today.。
As we close, as we go about our day, I want us to remember。
that God wants to bless us.。
And He blesses us in different tangible ways.。
He will protect us.。
And no matter what we are going through in our lives,。
no matter even if we want to hide from Him sometimes,。
He wants to be close to us.。
And He wants us to be close to Him.。
And we can always go to our Father in Heaven。
and ask for His grace.。
His grace and His love is always available for us as His children.。
And also, He is pleased by us.。
He is pleased by looking into the individual faces here,。
in all of us.。
And He is smiling at us.。
And I want us to receive that today as God's people.。
So let me read over the blessing.。
And let's be comfortable and be in a posture of receiving God's blessing today.。
The Lord bless you and keep you.。
The Lord make His face shine on you and be gracious to you.。
The Lord turn His face towards you and give you peace.。
Father we thank you that you are a God who always wants to be close to us.。
Father, we thank you for this blessing that you give to your people yourselves.。
And let us know your heart on how you want to bless us as a people.。
And Lord, we want to be a faithful people to you as well.。
As we are going about our week, as we are doing different things,。
Lord help us to be reminded of your blessing.。
And to be reminded that your blessing is enough for us.。
That we want to be a faithful people, to be content with your blessing and with you only.。
And Lord, as we go about our week, as we continue to serve you in different ways,。
may you show your smile to us.。
May we receive and be content with that approval smile on your face.。
We thank you that you are a Father that approves us, that accepts us,。
and that is pleased and proud of us.。
And we thank you in Jesus name.。
