Let me pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, "Amen."。
Hey, as you sit down, say hi to somebody sitting near you.。
Say, "Hey, nice to welcome you to church.。
Nice to have you here.。
Be kind, be friendly."。
Well, good morning, good morning, good morning.。
Welcome to The Vine.。
My name is Angelo Mundapastor.。
If you're new to The Vine, we're so glad that you're here.。
We're in week three of a four-week series, the first series of this new year, where we're。
actually kind of talking about and wanting to teach you about four important mindset。
shifts that need to happen in our lives if we're going to move into 2025 in the way that。
we're sensing the Holy Spirit wants to call us as a church to move into.。
In 2024, we told you that it was a year of intimacy and God was calling us into a place。
of deep intimacy with Him, but intimacy is a platform by which we then launch into the。
story that Christ has for us in our lives.。
And in 2025, we believe that this is to be a year of action, a year where we take our。
faith and we begin to live it more boldly, more courageously, and perhaps more publicly。
in our city around us.。
We're saying that there are four mindset shifts that need to happen in us to transition from。
this place of greater intimacy into a place of having that courage and that boldness to。
live our faith more publicly.。
And we're basing this series in the life of Samuel and David, and particularly at the。
end of Samuel's life, the last judge of Israel as he prepares to hand that over to the kingship.。
And then in David, who becomes, as Israel would end up calling him, the start of the。
Davidic dynasty, the king that would bring the bloodline that would ultimately bring。
in the life of Christ Jesus.。
And so we're sitting in this incredible moment of history, a transition between one time。
to another and the picture and the life of two men who transition themselves from a place。
of intimacy into a place of needed action.。
And in that, we see these four things that they do.。
We've already seen in this series that we need to have the right start.。
Last week, we looked at what it is to have and make the right choices.。
And today I want to speak to you about wearing the right clothes.。
Yes, the right clothes.。
Now what on earth is that all about?。
What I understand that we need to pick up the story from where Ellison left it off last。
week.。
So Samuel has just anointed David to be king.。
But what's fascinating actually is that David doesn't become king for another further 12。
years.。
That's a whole sermon in and of itself.。
You have to understand that sometimes when God anoints us, it doesn't necessarily mean。
that it's time to begin the task that he's anointed us for.。
Sometimes we actually need a season of waiting.。
We need a season of understanding, a season of learning and growing.。
Sometimes we need a development of a skill set or development of a character.。
So although God anoints David to become king, it's not 12 years until he takes on that actual。
anointing, that actual mantle.。
And there's so much skill and so much personal character that he needs to develop over those。
12 years so that when he walks into that anointing for the first time, he actually has the skill。
and the character to hold him in the place that that anointing has for him.。
So don't always think that because God's anointed you for something, it's necessarily the right。
time for you to begin.。
Sometimes there's a need for the waiting, for the learning and for the growing.。
We see that happen for David.。
He's taken straight into Saul's household.。
And the Scriptures tell us that Saul loves David, likes David immediately.。
And it's partly because Saul's in a really hard time of his life.。
He's actually having demonic fits.。
And David is the only one who can take a harp and begin to play the harp and soothe Saul's。
demonic aspirations and what's happening in his life.。
And so Saul and David actually create a strong bond together early on.。
And Scriptures tell us that Saul so admires David that he makes him his armor bearer.。
Now that's actually important for what we're about to see in our story here today.。
But an armor bearer was one who was responsible for looking after, making sure they were ready,。
the battle armor of the king.。
So David's role was to understand the armor that Saul needed to go into battle, make sure。
that armor was always battle ready, make sure the weapons were sharp and clean and oiled。
up, making sure the armor looked the way it needed to be, was nice and clean.。
This was his job.。
He was the armor bearer to Saul.。
Now interestingly, war does immediately break out.。
The nation of Philistia rises up and begins to attack Israel.。
Now in those days there was a common practice that took place on the battlefield.。
Rather than having all the armies fight each other in this prolonged battle where many。
deaths would occur, it was also okay if one of the nations sends forward their best warrior,。
the one who could fight the most, who was the strongest warrior, and challenged the。
best warrior of the other side to a battle.。
And it's just the two of them fighting out that battle and whoever would win, well then。
that nation would be the ultimate winner.。
This was a way of saving lives, it was a way of saving time, and this is exactly what Philistia。
do.。
They send out their best warrior, this man by the name of Goliath.。
Goliath is described in scripture as being nine feet tall and being a champion in battle。
since he was a boy.。
And actually it records to us Israel's response.。
Israel's response is one of fear and dismay.。
The Bible tells us that they were terrified by this warrior, Goliath.。
So I want you to see the picture here.。
Here's a situation where an army has come to attack Israel.。
This Goliath has stepped forward and said, "Look, send your best warrior out to fight。
me and whoever wins, that will be the nation that will take the land."。
And Israel is dismayed and they're terrified because this guy's nine feet tall and they。
don't have anybody in their ranks who's nine feet tall.。
And they don't see that this is at all a fair battle.。
And the Bible tells us that for 40 days, Goliath, every single day, fully arrayed in his battle。
armor comes forward and challenges Israel to this battle and says, "Send me your best。
warrior."。
And for 40 days, Israel says, "No, we don't have anyone we think can fight you."。
And every single day, Goliath is basically bringing down the name of Israel, bringing。
down their God, laughing at their fear.。
One day, David decides enough is enough.。
I mean, David's been looking around and he's been like, "Come on, people.。
Somebody fight this guy.。
Come on, somebody can do it.。
You guys are warriors, you do it.。
I'm just the armor bearer, but you're a warrior.。
Why don't you fight him?。
No one is fighting him."。
And David's like, "Do you not hear what this guy is saying to us every day?。
Do you not hear how he's pulling down the name of God?。
Do you not hear the ways in which he's threatening us?。
We need to stand up against this guy and our God is going to fight this battle for us.。
Somebody has to go.。
Well, if you're not going to go, I'll go."。
And so he actually goes to Saul and he says, "Hey, Saul, send me."。
And Saul is like, "Are you an idiot?。
Because you're the least of all my army people who can do this.。
You're not even part of the army.。
You're an armor bearer.。
You're not even like a fighter.。
You're not even a trainer.。
You're like the guy that wraps the box gloves.。
You know, the person who tapes up the gloves for the guy that's actually going to do the。
battle.。
That's what you are.。
You're the armor bearer.。
You cannot do this."。
And David in response was like, "You need to understand my resume."。
So fun.。
I think David's so bold.。
He's like, "I didn't always be a harp player or an armor bearer.。
I used to be a shepherd."。
And then Saul's like, "Okay, great.。
Go."。
He's like, "What do you mean you were a shepherd?"。
He's like, "I was a shepherd.。
I was looking after my father's sheep and I used to have to defend against bears and。
defend against lions and I would chase after them and I would beat bears and I would beat。
lions and this Goliath, he's just a big oversized bear.。
He's like a big lion.。
I've done it before.。
I can do it again."。
And for some reason, Saul says yes.。
And I think the only reason Saul says yes is because he's too afraid to go himself.。
And he realizes as king, he should probably be the one out there on the battlefield, but。
he decides not to do it.。
He's too scared.。
He's too afraid.。
He won't step up to the moment.。
So a shepherd boy who is currently an armor bearer decides to go and Saul says, "All right,。
go."。
Well, we know the rest of the story, don't we?。
And he puts those five stones in his pouch and he takes up his sling and he gets his。
staff and he runs out like a shepherd boy and he runs towards Goliath and he says, "You've。
been desecrating the name of my Lord."。
Smacks him in the head with one stone, kills him straight away, falls on the ground, takes。
out a sword, cuts off his head, holds it up in front of everybody.。
Israel is victorious and it's one of the most glorious moments in history where an underdog。
beats the one that he was not expected to beat.。
But in that story, there is a moment where I think the victory really takes place and。
it's not when he throws the stone.。
It's not when he cuts off the head.。
It actually happens quite a bit before then.。
And it's a part of the story that we don't think about very often.。
It's often overlooked.。
But actually when we understand this part of the story and we actually begin to think。
about how we might take the principle of that and live it out in our lives, then we begin。
to position ourselves for what it is that God truly can do only through us.。
So I want to pick up the story at the point where David gives his resume to Saul, this。
seemingly not very effective or great resume.。
You guys okay?。
Let me read this to you from Samuel 1, 17 starting in verse 34.。
So David said to Saul, "Your servant has been keeping his father's sheep."。
Saul's like, "Great."。
"When a lion or a bear came and carried off his sheep from the flock, I went after it。
and I struck it and rescued the sheep from its mouth.。
When it turned on me, I seized it by its hair, struck it down and I killed it.。
Your servant has killed both the lion and the bear.。
This uncircumcised Philistine will be like just one of them because he has defiled the。
armies of the living God.。
For the Lord who delivered me from the paw of the lion and the paw of the bear will deliver。
me from the hand of this Philistine."。
Saul said to David, "Go and the Lord be with you."。
Then Saul dressed David in his own tunic and he put a coat of armor on him and a bronze。
helmet on his head.。
David fastened the sword over the tunic and tried to walk around, but he was not used。
to them.。
"I cannot go in these," he said to Saul, "because I'm not used to them."。
So he took them off.。
Then he took up his staff and his hand and he chose five smooth stones from the stream。
and he put them in the pouch of his shepherd's rag and with his sling in his hand, approached。
the Philistine.。
I love what Saul does here.。
Saul does this seemingly contradictory thing.。
He decides that he's going to let David go and he says these words, "Okay, I'm going。
to let you now go."。
And he says, "I want you to go in the Lord."。
That sounds good, doesn't it?。
He says, "I want you to go in the Lord," but then he does something immediately that。
seems to contradict exactly what he says.。
He says, "I want you to go in the Lord, but I'm going to dress you like myself."。
Come on, church, I want you to see this.。
He says, "I want you to go in the Lord, but I'm going to put my clothes on you."。
Now you have to understand that Saul is doing this out of a place of love.。
He's doing this out of a place of wanting the best for David.。
He's like, "David, if you're going to go, well then you better look the part.。
You better look like a warrior out there on the field, even though you're not really a。
warrior.。
And you're my armor bearer, so if anybody knows my armor better than anyone, it's you.。
You've looked after my tunic and my armor all your life, all the last number of years.。
You know it so well, so here's the blessing I'm going to give to you, David."。
Saul's thinking, "If I can do the best thing for you, it is to give you my armor."。
That was a huge honor.。
The king never gave his armor to anyone else.。
He never did that.。
But Saul's thinking, "What's the best way that I can prepare you and equip you for the。
battle that you're about to be in?。
What's the best thing I can do for you?"。
It's to give you the best that we have, the best sword, the sharpest armor, the most expensive。
weaponry that we have, and it's mine.。
"I bless you, David.。
Take this.。
Put this on you."。
Saul's doing it from a place of great honor, a great love, and he places this stuff upon。
David because he wants to equip him as best he can for the battle that's ahead.。
And David takes these things onto his shoulders because, oh, could you imagine the honor that。
you could wear the king's armor?。
The problem is the Bible has told us a couple of pages beforehand that Saul is heads and。
shoulders above everybody else in Israel.。
It's described Saul as actually being quite broad and strong, and it's also described。
David as being the smallest of all his brothers, to being the runt in the liquor.。
So I wonder if you could actually follow the thought here.。
Saul says, "You need to wear my tunic."。
David takes on that because he wants to honor the person who's doing that for him, but I。
wonder if you could imagine what the fit was like.。
I think it was something like this.。
So he takes on this beautiful thing that has been prepared for him, and the problem is。
it just doesn't fit.。
Now could you imagine how David would have felt?。
He's got the honor of wearing something, but he realizes, "Hang on a sec.。
I'm not sure if this is for me.。
I'm not sure if this is how I'm supposed to look."。
The irony is that Saul looked great in that armor, but David, it didn't fit.。
For Saul, he was comfortable in that armor, but you can imagine for David, he wasn't particularly。
comfortable in what he was wearing.。
See, you need to understand that David was dressed for the right battle, but wearing。
the wrong clothes.。
Come on, church.。
He's dressed for the right battle, but he's wearing the wrong clothes.。
As we start 2025, we have to understand that if this is the place that we live in, if Hong。
Kong is your home, if this is the place that God has planted you in, and you're working。
here, and you're a part of the vine, and this is your community of faith, no matter how。
you might feel about Hong Kong or how you might be feeling about Hong Kong's history,。
if this is where God has placed you in this season of your life, you need to understand。
that you're in the right battle.。
That this is the place, this city, through your skills and your thing and everything。
that you're doing, where God is calling you to bring the hope of the gospel into this。
land.。
The place for you to bring what it is that God has uniquely placed on you to show His。
love and His mercy and His graciousness to the people around you.。
If this is your home, you're in the right battle.。
The question you have to ask yourself is, "Are you wearing the right clothes?。
Are you actually wearing the right clothes that will help you in the battle that you。
are in?"。
And the reality is, like David, so many of us can end up wearing somebody else's clothes。
in our battle.。
You got to understand, you cannot go into your battle wearing somebody else's armor.。
Come on, church.。
Is anybody here today?。
You guys okay?。
You cannot go into your battle wearing someone else's armor.。
And I know what you're thinking.。
You're like, "Well, I don't think I do that.。
I don't think I do that."。
If you're anything like me, that's how I often think.。
But the reality is, so often people are trying to put their clothes on your shoulders.。
And like in David's situation, they have really good intentions about it.。
Oh, they love you.。
They want the best for you.。
They want you to win the battle.。
They want you to have the best life possible.。
And in their desire for you to succeed as best as possible, they put themselves on you.。
They put what they think is best for you on you.。
They decide how they think it would be best for you to live your life, and they place。
it on you.。
It comes from a good place of intention, but they're still placing their hopes and dreams。
on your shoulders, rather than perhaps the very things that God is calling you to do.。
Now, sometimes it actually is not coming from a place of good intention.。
It actually comes from a place of bad intention.。
So as much as we may all have people who love us in our lives who are placing their clothes。
on our shoulders out of a place of good intention, we also can have bad people in our lives who。
are trying to place their things on us in order for us to fail.。
That also happens in life.。
I've experienced that many times.。
Maybe you have too.。
So whether from good intentions or from bad intentions, we can all end up wearing the。
wrong clothes.。
What are some of the clothes that people try to put on us?。
Let's go to my little clothes rack.。
I think first of all, their expectations.。
The kind of expectations that they have about you.。
What they think you should be, how they think you should act.。
Their expectations to define how they think you would be best in battle.。
And again, it might come from a good place or it might come from a bad place, but they're。
placing their expectations on you.。
And you know that the wearing of somebody else's expectations is a heavy burden.。
Amen.。
Maybe it's not expectations.。
Maybe for some of you, let's have a look at how this might work for some of you.。
Maybe it's values.。
Maybe they place some values on you that they think are important.。
Values that they own, values that they think are the right ones for you.。
And if you could just live their values, then you would work out okay in this world.。
And so they taught you or told you or forced you into a situation where you're embracing。
values that are theirs more than values that are Jesus'.。
Or and I'm just going to get real personal with many of us here.。
This is personal as well for me.。
Look at these ones.。
They tell you about the university you should go to.。
They tell you about the career you should have, the type of person you should be.。
They tell you about the company that you could work for.。
And again, maybe a place of great intention, maybe a place of wanting the best for you。
or in a place where actually they want you to mess up, they place these sort of things。
on your shoulders.。
They say this is the stuff that you need to do.。
This is the kind of career you need to have if you're going to survive in Hong Kong.。
This is the kind of company.。
You better have an aspiration to work for.。
You're going to go to university in a few years.。
You need to get better grades so you can go to the university that I'm going to be proud。
about sharing with my friends over a beer.。
Oh, that was a bit too personal.。
Okay.。
Are you with me?。
I think there's some cultures around us where we end up wearing so much everybody's else's。
item of clothes and it's weighing us down and you're in the right battle, but you're。
wearing the wrong clothes.。
Let me tell you, there's also a situation where it's not just that people are placing。
this stuff on you.。
There's also a situation where you're deciding to place it upon you, where maybe they haven't。
put expectations on you, but you've decided to take expectations on yourself.。
I know this one very personally because this is what happened to me when I took over the。
vine as senior pastor in 2013.。
I was incredibly well prepared by two men who had served this church so faithfully.。
Our previous senior pastors, John and Tony.。
John and Tony had done this amazing thing with the vine.。
They had taken a church of about 40 people and they had grown it into a large, successful,。
great church.。
At the age of 37, relatively young guy, these two men handed this beautiful, great, successful,。
wonderful thing to a 37-year-old who had no idea, who was in the right battle and decided。
he needed somebody else's clothes.。
I thought, "Well, if I'm going to take over the vine, then I need to be really careful。
that I don't become the first senior pastor in the vine's history where the vine goes。
off a cliff, where everybody starts to leave, where nothing works out."。
And I thought to myself, "Well, what has made this church successful so far?"。
John and Tony didn't put this on me, but I looked at them and I chose to put on their。
clothes.。
I was like, "Well, I need to keep this thing running.。
I need to keep it working well.。
It's worked well up to this point, so let me just take the ideas and the thoughts and。
the themes and the ways in which they do things and let me just place that on my shoulders。
because I guess that's what's going to help me in this battle that I feel not that equipped。
for.。
If I could just wear their clothes, everything's going to be all right."。
And it drained me.。
They didn't do this to me.。
I took this on myself.。
Are you with me?。
And in putting on their clothes, I found myself weighed down, exhausted, overwhelmed.。
And about a year into it, I took Christine out for dinner.。
We went out for dinner.。
We sat down at the table, and as soon as we sat down at the table, I just started weeping。
and weeping publicly in this restaurant.。
It was really embarrassing.。
But I was so tired, exhausted from wearing somebody else's clothes in the right battle。
that I was supposed to be in.。
Perhaps you're resonating with this here today.。
You know what it is to wear the expectations, the choices, and the decisions that others。
have made for you.。
Sometimes that's come from good places.。
Sometimes it's come from bad places.。
Sometimes they've placed it on you without even you wanting it.。
Other times you've taken it on yourself, but you are dressed in the wrong clothes.。
Why do we do this?。
Why do we take on other people's clothes onto our lives?。
I think there are three reasons.。
First, we do it like David did, out of respect, out of honor.。
I love my parents.。
They're great.。
I don't want to upset my parents.。
They want this for me.。
I should do this because I want to honor them.。
I want to love them.。
The Bible tells me that I should honor and respect my parents.。
I should do what they're asking me to do.。
We take it on board because we have respect or honor for those in authority around us.。
Perhaps we take it on board because we want to be accepted by the people that clothes。
that we're going to wear.。
Oh, I just want them to like me.。
I just want them to accept me a little bit.。
I want to actually be more like them.。
Perhaps if I could be more like them, they would then accept me into their tribe.。
So I'm going to put on clothes that look like their clothes, even though they're not designed。
or they don't fit me because I want to fit in.。
I don't want to feel lonely.。
I don't want to be on the outside.。
I want to be accepted and I want to be loved.。
You have to understand, if you try to put on somebody else's clothes, if you try to。
become like someone else in order for them to accept you or like you, you will always。
end up sacrificing something of who you really are.。
When you do that, you always end up living a diminished life.。
You might think you're trying to fit in and try to be approved and try to look like other。
people, but you're only going to be trying to wear their clothes in a battle that those。
clothes do not fit.。
You will diminish yourself.。
I want to be honest and say some of you in this room, you're living a pale imitation。
of somebody else's life.。
You're trying to be so much like someone to fit in and to be accepted.。
You are dampening the light of Christ that Christ has placed in you.。
Are you with me still?。
The third reason why I think we wear other people's clothes is out of fear.。
Fear of disappointing someone.。
Fear of what happens if I don't wear what they've asked me to wear.。
Fear of whether I might lose my job if I stand against that, because that's a value that。
I don't want to embrace.。
Fear that if I do that, maybe the family won't accept me anymore.。
If I stand against it, we can have this fear.。
Whether it's just out of honor and respect or whether it's because we're trying to fit。
in or whether it's because we're fearful that if we don't wear the clothes, then everything。
else will not work out for us.。
Whatever it is, when you're in a time of battle, wearing somebody else's clothes will always。
become more a burden you have to carry than a weapon you can use.。
When you're in a battle, those clothes will become a burden to you more than a weapon。
that you can actually use.。
So if this is resonating with you, the question we should ask ourselves is, "Well, what do。
we do?"。
Right?。
What do we do?。
What actually he does next.。
In verse 39, I love this.。
By the way, I feel really silly wearing this, but hey, stay with me.。
In verse 39, it says this, "David fastened the sword around his tunic and tried to walk。
around because it was not used to them."。
He says, "I cannot go in these," he said to Saul, "because I am not used to them."。
I love this about David.。
Oh my goodness.。
He's wearing these clothes that don't fit him.。
He's trying to make it work.。
It's out of honor and love and respect received and placed onto his shoulders what someone。
else has placed on him.。
But at some point he realizes, "I cannot go in these."。
I want you to know that at the beginning of 2025, as you think about what it might mean。
to move into a year of action, as you think about what it might mean for you to go forward,。
some of us in this room have to realize we're currently wearing the wrong clothes and we're。
going to have to have the courage and the boldness to say, "I cannot go in these.。
I cannot move forward currently weighed down by other people's expectations.。
I cannot move forward if I'm trying to live to please other people's choices.。
I cannot move forward if my whole life is designed right now to try to fit in and be。
like others so that I don't stand out.。
No, I cannot go in these."。
Some of us, we're living a life where we're having to act as other people want us to act。
when we know deep down inside that God has called us to be different.。
And somewhere along the way, we're going to have to get that courage and boldness in us。
to say, "I cannot go forward.。
I will not take another step forward.。
I have to take ownership for the clothes that I'm currently wearing and realize that I'm。
not going to take a step forward this year wearing what somebody else wanted me to wear.。
I will only go forward if I am liberated from the things that have been placed upon me.。
I cannot go in these."。
It's a beautiful idea, isn't it?。
How do we embrace it?。
Well, notice what he does next.。
I love this also in verse 39.。
It says this.。
Notice, this is very important.。
It says, "He then took them off."。
There you go.。
Preach on that one.。
So first of all, he says, "I cannot go in these."。
And then he goes, "He took them off."。
Which seems really simple, doesn't it?。
It's like, "Andrew, where is the preach point in this part?"。
It seems really simple, the idea that, "Okay, I realize that what I'm wearing does not fit。
me."。
I don't know, by the way, who this fitted, but it was a big person.。
So I realize that this is not what I should be wearing.。
This doesn't fit me.。
And I say, "I cannot go forward in these, so I just simply take them off."。
It sounds simple.。
Here's the challenge.。
Although it's simple, why do so few of us actually do it?。
Why do so few of us actually remove the thing that we know we shouldn't be wearing?。
And instead, we don't take off the old, we just try to put on the new.。
Oh, I want to preach on this one for a little bit.。
We Christians are really good at this.。
We're like, "Okay, I realize I'm wearing the wrong expectations.。
I realize I'm kind of trying to fit in too much.。
I realize that the values that I'm holding are not really Christ's values and not really。
the Bible's values, and I want God's word.。
I want His values.。
I want His ideas.。
So I realize that there is something for me in this world that is custom made for me.。
This jacket is custom made for me.。
I had this made.。
It cost me a lot of money.。
It fits me like a glove.。
We know that God has promises that fit us like a glove, and here's what we do.。
It's like, "Oh, I believe in Jesus now.。
Cool.。
I get to wear some new clothes."。
We put on the new clothes that Christ has given us, but the problem is we don't take。
off the old stuff.。
So we start to walk around going, "Hey, I'm a Christian.。
I'm in church on Sunday.。
I feel good.。
Do you like my jacket?。
It fits me really well.。
Custom made by the blood of Christ for me."。
What we're trying to do is we're trying to actually embrace two scenarios.。
One where we fit in when we're here on a Sunday, "Look at my jacket."。
And one when we go throughout the week, "Oh, yeah.。
Look at my jacket."。
We found ourselves in a situation where we're trying to live two lives in one.。
When we're in the office or we're out socially with friends, we're proud to embrace and try。
to fit in and look like everyone else and wear the expectations that everyone else looks。
even though it's stupid and it's big and we don't realize that it's not really for us.。
But hey, that's okay.。
No one's going to see my other jacket, are they?。
I'm still wearing it but no one's going to see it.。
It's tucked behind the back.。
And then when we go to community group on a Sunday or we go to church on a Sunday, we。
whip back in that thing and we go, "Let me just tidy up a little bit here.。
So that I can wear my clothes the way they should be worn now.。
Are you with me?"。
It's very simple.。
David realizes that his clothes are too much.。
He prophetically says, "I cannot go in these."。
And then he takes them off.。
Then he realizes that, "Actually, I cannot go forward wearing that stuff."。
Can you see how ridiculous this looks?。
And yet this is how we live as Christians almost all the time.。
That we think that we can do both.。
The Bible is very clear.。
When you are in Christ, you are a new creation.。
The old is gone, the new has come.。
Jesus himself said, "You cannot put new wine into old wineskins.。
It doesn't work that way.。
You have to realize that you need to take off the way you were living before in order。
to put on your newness in Christ."。
And that journey is actually courageous.。
It was courageous for David to say to Saul, who he loved and respected, "I cannot go forward。
in your clothes.。
I'm so grateful you gave them to me.。
I honor you for allowing me to try them, but I've walked around for a little while and。
this isn't me.。
And if you want me to succeed in the battle, you need to trust that I know how it is that。
I am supposed to be.。
And I respect you, I love you, Saul, but I am not going to go forward in these.。
No, I'm actually going to take off the things that I shouldn't be wearing.。
The things that I'm trying to cover up.。
I'm going to remove these things so that I can go forward in the way that I've actually。
been asked and created to go forward in.。
I have the courage to take off what I shouldn't be wearing."。
Now when we do that, here's the thing.。
I want you to be really clear.。
This is not a call to nakedness.。
Okay?。
It's very important.。
If you're writing notes, write that down.。
This is not a call to nakedness.。
This is not like David going, "I'm going to take off all the things that I shouldn't be。
wearing.。
I'm going to take off all my responsibilities.。
I'm going to take off all the expectations that have been put on me, and I'm just going。
to be naked.。
I'm going to be the purest version of myself that I can be."。
It's weird.。
There's no human in the world right now that would define true freedom as getting rid of。
all expectations, getting rid of all responsibility, getting rid of how you think you should live。
your life, getting rid of wearing other people's stuff.。
There's this thing like if you really want to truly be free, then you need to shed all。
of the things that shackle you.。
The Bible never teaches that.。
The Bible does not define freedom by having no responsibility.。
The Bible does not call you to a responsibility-free life.。
The Bible calls you to the deep, beautiful, hard responsibility of dying to yourself,。
picking up your cross, and obeying and coming after Christ.。
The Bible calls you to the responsibility to not be naked, to not think that freedom。
is defined by throwing off the shackles of what everyone's given me, but the harder work,。
I argue, of taking the responsibility of becoming more like Christ Jesus.。
So there are things that we take off, absolutely, but there better be some things that we put。
on because we're not called to be naked.。
I'm going to get to Genesis 3.。
Oh my God, I love it when I preach from Genesis 3.。
Genesis 3, "Before the fall of man, Adam and Eve were naked," and the Bible tells us they。
were unashamed.。
Before sin, nakedness was fine.。
But when sin happened, Adam and Eve realized that they were naked, and they realized that。
that was not right.。
They were shamed by their nakedness, and here's what they do.。
They then take the plants around them, and they make clothes for themselves, and they。
try to cover themselves up.。
This is so funny because sometimes we realize we're naked, and then we think we know the。
best way to dress.。
And so they try to cover themselves up because they want to try to make themselves right。
before God again.。
"Okay, we screwed up.。
We did something wrong.。
We realize now we're naked.。
We're going to try and do the best thing for us to try to cover us up."。
It's so important.。
As much as you shouldn't wear somebody else's clothes, you also shouldn't try to dress yourself.。
Because as much as you shouldn't be wearing what everybody else tells you to wear, you。
shouldn't then think that you know the best thing to wear, or to think that you know how。
to cover yourself, that you know the best way forward, that you can work it out.。
God shows up, and he sees them in the silly little coverings that they've made for themselves.。
His heart is broken for them.。
He's upset about the sin that has happened.。
He rightly judges for that sin.。
But then he comes and does this beautiful thing at the end of Genesis 3.。
He makes new clothes for them.。
He sews animal skins together, and he covers them in the way that he wants to give them。
dignity and honor and love.。
And this idea of God covering us and giving us new clothes to wear in the dishonor of。
our nakedness becomes the cornerstone of the Christian faith.。
You see, the Christian faith is not a call to nakedness and to call that freedom.。
The Christian faith isn't even to realize that you're naked and you should close yourself.。
The Christian faith is this idea to recognize that you're wearing the wrong clothes, remove。
those clothes from yourself, and allow him to place his clothes on you through the life。
and the death and the resurrection of Jesus.。
That's the Christian faith, that we have clothes that we get to put on.。
Have a look at all these passages that are behind me here, and just look at some of them。
all.。
Isaiah 64, 8.。
All of us have become like one who is unclean.。
All of our righteous acts are like filthy rags.。
The clothes that we currently wear are not right.。
But then notice Isaiah 61, 10.。
I delight greatly in the Lord, for my soul rejoices in God, for he has clothed me with。
garments of salvation, arrayed me in a robe of his righteousness.。
In the New Testament, for all who are baptized into Christ have been clothed themselves with。
Christ.。
Meanwhile, we grow longing to be clothed instead with our heavenly dwelling, because when we。
are not clothed, we will not be found naked.。
Ephesians 1, I love.。
If you were taught with regard to your formal way of life to put off your old self, there。
it is, to remove your old clothes, which are being corrupted by deceitful dyers, and to。
be made new in the attitude of your mind, and put on the new self created in God in。
true righteousness and holiness.。
So absolutely, there are clothes to be worn.。
There is the right armor for the battle that Christ has for you, and it's the robes of。
his righteousness.。
They're not your robes, they're not your clothes, they're not the things that you think you。
should put on to try to be better for the Lord.。
It's the life, death, resurrection of Jesus, the holiness that has begun with us, the righteousness。
that is found in the blood of Christ.。
We put on those things, and they fit us just right.。
And not only then are we in the right battle, but we're wearing the right armor.。
David took up those stones, and he took up that staff, and he ran before Goliath as a。
shepherd boy.。
Notice that.。
Not an armor bearer, not a harp player.。
He went back to the way he knew God had always called him to be, and he puts on the shepherd。
persona, the identity that Christ has always provided for him, the one where he knew that。
God was with him.。
And he goes back, and he receives his true identity before the Lord, and in that identity。
he goes into battle and wins that battle.。
And as you head into the year ahead, that's your call too.。
Look at this process that David goes through to prepare yourself to be victorious in the。
battles that are ahead of you.。
The process is these three things.。
Receive, sorry, realize, remove, receive.。
Realize you're wearing the wrong clothes.。
Take ownership over the reality that there have been clothes that have been placed on。
you not because of your fault, and perhaps by well-meaning people, but they are a burden。
on you, they're weighing you down.。
Or perhaps you've taken those clothes and placed them on yourself for a desire to want。
to fit in and be accepted by the wrong kinds of people.。
To realize and to take ownership of the reality that we're wearing the wrong clothes in the。
right battle.。
And then to remove those clothes, to actually not try to cover them up by wearing clothes。
that we think we should wear in church, by not trying to cover up or pretend like everything's。
fine when we haven't actually done the work of repentance that we've been called to do.。
The way we remove the clothes that we shouldn't be wearing is through the work of repentance,。
this beautiful gift.。
The Bible said that it is kindness that leads us to repentance.。
As we do that, we're taking action.。
We're taking action for the way in which we have been clothed, knowing that we cannot。
go with these.。
That we cannot move forward in the way that Christ wants us to move forward, wearing the。
wrong kind of thing.。
And then, as we are naked before the Lord, receiving again from Him His righteousness,。
His grace, His forgiveness, His love, and in doing that, taking responsibility for the。
life in which He has called us to be, to pick up our cross, to die to ourselves, to listen。
to His word, to put His promises into action, and in doing that, be arrayed for the battle。
He has placed us in.。
If this is Hong Kong, if it is your home, you are in the right battle.。
Are you wearing the right clothes?。
Can I pray for us?。
Let's pray.。
Father I thank you in this moment for everybody here who you love so deeply.。
And Lord, this is a city and a culture whereby which it's very easy to end up wearing clothes。
that don't fit us.。
Some of you in this room, you have a heavy burden that's been laid upon you.。
And I think for some of you that's come from well-meaning people, people who love you deeply,。
like Saul to David, people that want the best for you.。
They want you to win the battle.。
But wrongly, they think for you to win the battle, you need to be a little bit more like。
them.。
For you to win the battle, you need to do the things that they think you should do,。
that they think are the best for you.。
And this is of course not about rebelling against the love and the honor.。
Remember David didn't do it out of rebellion.。
He honored Saul as well in his response.。
But some of you need to have the courage like David to actually say, "I cannot go in these.。
I see your heart.。
I see how much you love me.。
I'm so grateful that you provided for me.。
I know that you've got dreams for me, but you need to understand that that's not the。
dreams that God has put on my heart.。
That is not the person that I believe God's called me to be.。
And I love you and I respect you, but one of the things that David does here, he doesn't。
allow his love and respect for Saul to be greater than his conviction to be obedient。
to the things that God has called him to be.。
And for some of you, that's your way of saying, "I cannot go in these."。
Some of you have taken on the clothes of others and you've done it because you've desperately。
wanted to fit in.。
You know that you're wearing two jackets, one that actually doesn't fit and it wasn't。
made for you, and one that does fit and is made for you, but is thrown on top of the。
one that doesn't.。
Some of you are trying to live two lives.。
You cannot do that.。
That is only going to be the diminishing of the fullness of who you're created to be.。
You cannot wear both jackets.。
Christian faith doesn't call you to two types of life.。
And so for some of you today, you need to repent.。
You need to actually come before the Lord and say, "God, I'm trying to do both.。
In some context, I'm wearing these expectations and these values and I'm trying to look a。
certain way.。
In other contexts, I'm trying to embrace your values and try to be like you, and I'm caught。
between the two of them and it's killing me."。
Some of you, this is a call to a greater level of picking up your cross and following after。
Christ, and it's the removing of the jacket that doesn't fit.。
So Holy Spirit, I thank you for what you want to do here.。
And if this is helpful for you today, as your eyes are closed, I just want to encourage。
you to open your hands before you.。
It doesn't really matter what your neighbor's doing.。
This is just between you and God.。
As you open up your hands before the Lord, it's your way of saying, "God, I recognize。
in me something of what David went through.。
I know that I've been carrying and wearing the wrong clothes.。
I know I've been trying to wear two jackets at once."。
Father, for every person whose hands are open in this room right now, here's what I want。
to pray, Lord.。
I want to pray, "Realize, remove, receive."。
Lord, as they open their hands, they're realizing that that's their reality.。
And again, for many of them in this room, it's not their fault.。
They've just been in a situation where somebody has thrown the heaviness of expectations,。
the heaviness of burden and choices and decisions that they've had to live for a long time.。
For some, it is the realization that these are things that they've chosen for themselves,。
and that's not right.。
By opening their hands, they realize, Lord.。
Now I want to pray, Father, for the work of your conviction that leads us to repentance,。
that enables us to remove these things.。
For some of you, that's a moment thing.。
It's like that prayer sets you free.。
For others, it may be a journey that the Holy Spirit is inviting you on.。
Maybe to remove some of those clothes, it's going to take some time.。
It's going to take some counsel.。
It's going to take working with somebody who's going to pray with you and walk with you.。
It's going to take some discipleship.。
For some, it might be an immediate thing.。
For others, there's a journey.。
Whatever it is, today is the starting point of that for you.。
It's just to say, "Lord, forgive me.。
I recognize, Lord, that I've been wearing this.。
Forgive me.。
Help me, Lord.。
I don't want to be naked, but I want to wear the clothes that you have called me to wear."。
And so part of that is that journey for you here now, to start to say, "This is the starting。
point."。
I'm saying to you, Lord, prophetically, "I cannot go in these, but I don't necessarily。
know how to take it off."。
Maybe that's the honest prayer for some of you here today.。
"Lord, I know I can't go forward, but Lord, I'm so used to wearing these things.。
I'm not even sure what it would be like if I did take them off."。
I want you to know that the Holy Spirit is here present with you now to begin that journey。
with you, to lead you in a path of liberation and a new life.。
Like the picture we had at the start, the book is open.。
A new story is to be written.。
You don't need to live the story of somebody else anymore.。
So just take your time.。
I'm going to invite the team to just lead us in a time of worship, but just to take。
your time, whatever that might mean for you and however it is that you are to respond.。
Just allow the Holy Spirit to continue to minister to you.。
Thank you, Lord Jesus.。
Thank you.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
(ethereal music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
