I am neither an extrovert or introvert, I'm kind of like a coffee-fert.。
So before coffee, I'm like a cat, but she can do that whenever.。
And the conferences, both conferences that you mentioned, sounds amazing.。
I'd love to sign up.。
Thank you.。
Yes.。
Right, so I, first of all, like in today's prayer meeting, we came up with this phrase。
that, oh, we're here as a family.。
It was mentioned a few times in the prayer meeting before both services, and it was also。
mentioned when we led the Cantonese service as well.。
And I remember, wow, family, that's a really good term to, you know, describe how we are。
all together.。
And as a family, I just want to share something with you that is a little bit embarrassing.。
Okay, I don't know if you've experienced this kind of embarrassment at home before, it's。
when you have to take out the trash.。
Whenever you take out the trash, you don't wear your outfit, you just wear your pajamas,。
right?。
You wear pajamas, you put your, in a messy bun, and you don't fully wear your shoes.。
You tiptoe in your shoes, and then you just take out your trash and you walk out of the。
door and then right as you do it, the door slams behind you.。
And you're left with pajamas and a messy bun and two bags of trash.。
And have any one of you been in that position?。
I haven't, I just want to say I haven't, but then there's a hand raised up.。
I haven't, I always take my, you have too?。
Oh, that's beautiful.。
I want to see you in a messy bun as well.。
And it was kind of like an embarrassing moment with locked doors and I can't, and sometimes。
door just close when you're not expected to, right?。
But then there are moments when I close the door on my own.。
So I remember a few years ago, I was serving at K4C in Wan Chai.。
So they have this annual party for K4C volunteers, and they send out the email, they invite everyone.。
And at that time I was, you know, in a big church and I was a tiny person.。
I go, Oh, I need to make some friends.。
So I go in and I, I try to go to the party.。
So after the service, I plucked up my courage.。
I walked to the mini hall, I opened the door and it was so lively.。
Everyone was so friendly.。
And so I closed the door behind me and I just left.。
I couldn't, I couldn't go and go into a room where there are so many people.。
The atmosphere is so warm.。
I need people that are like quiet and not talk and let me just slip in without noticing.。
And so I closed the door behind me.。
And I feel like if I have to make, put a metaphor to describe what relationships are like, I。
would use the door.。
I would use the door.。
You know, sometimes how you would close a relationship and just close the door.。
And sometimes you want to open a relationship.。
But then have you ever put yourself in a situation where you're met with locked doors?。
Like you try to open it, but it's locked.。
You try to talk to that family member, but it's not responding.。
You feel like, Oh, I need to, I want to text that person, but go, Oh no, I shouldn't.。
I haven't talked to that person for a long time.。
And it's Christmas and everyone is gathering, but that person is not there anymore.。
Or maybe it's a friend that there will be so many misunderstanding or conflict between。
you two.。
He just stopped reaching out.。
Perhaps you've been betrayed or hurt by them.。
And so you had to freeze that relationship and set it aside while you heal yourself.。
And maybe the door is locked between you and your partner.。
You might still eat with each other and you have conversation about daily necessities。
and things like that.。
But you know that the relationship is locked and you rarely let each other understand your。
thoughts and feelings anymore.。
It's a, in a temporary state of suspension.。
But some relationships aren't just locked.。
It's kind of dead.。
It's like a, when it's a locked situation, you can still find a key and you open it and。
you create that channel of communication again.。
But when you're in a dead relationship, you can't really seem to move on in that relationship.。
When a relationship dies, it's the trust between the two people is gone.。
And you sat and you think about it and you go, what happened?。
How did I get there?。
A minute ago, I was still talking to that person.。
I was still having jokes and we were in each other's lives.。
But then suddenly, suddenly, it seems like it happened so quickly that this relationship。
is gone.。
And I've read some books to describe how relationship end up in that situation.。
Maybe maybe it's because of fear.。
There are lots of fear in relationships.。
Fear of rejections.。
Like you you were left unread with two blue takes and it was never got back to you.。
Or maybe we fear the conflict that we might have.。
Well, there are conflicts in all situations and in all relationships.。
But the fear of conflict just made me wonder, I don't want to reach out to that person anymore.。
I don't want to be with this person anymore.。
And maybe we're fear of the emotional outburst that might come.。
Can I handle when the other person have an emotional outburst?。
And what if I have big emotions that I couldn't handle?。
What if there are accusations between the both of us?。
And because of the fear of conflict, of accusations and everything, it worsened into isolation.。
We might stop sending messages to each other and avoid attending events that we might both。
be in.。
And we tell ourselves that if I don't see that person, if I don't reach out, it's okay.。
You know, a service level piece will be there.。
But this piece just stop us from communicating with each other.。
And with this mixture of fear and isolation and suspicious, it becomes a vicious cycle。
where every little detail becomes a trigger point for you.。
Like you see this person's phone face down and you go, is he lying to me again?。
Was she lying to me again?。
We see that that person is just chatting so happily with the other person.。
And you think about why is she so cold to me?。
And all of that just became a vicious cycle.。
And we store, or I store, all the wounds in my heart and let it ferment.。
And it was not even about forgiveness anymore.。
It's about how I process my feelings and my doubts and my hurt and how do I, you know,。
move forward.。
When relationships end between one person, it never just stopped affecting that relationship.。
Oftentimes it affects how I feel about myself or how I treat or how I see other parts of。
my relationship.。
And things like this might happen.。
You might hear yourself saying, if I can't even handle my relationship with my parents,。
how can I cherish those around me?。
If even the closest people hurt me, it's hard to trust others again.。
If relationships are this fragile, I better be more careful.。
And all these things accumulated and it fermented.。
And so I might have a problem with one of my friends, but then it turned out that myself,。
my worth, and how I see myself with other people are actually getting fractures.。
And so this affects not just how we see that specific failed relationship, it shapes how。
I approach all relationships.。
I was listening and watching the Joseph series and it just came to me that I go, I'm not。
angry with anyone, but I am fearful.。
I don't know how to move on with a particular relationship, not because I'm angry, but I'm。
so scared that I don't know how to react or respond to that person anymore.。
And so after that series, I had a little retreat for myself and I walked in the wetland park。
and I began to think about, I asked God, actually, I asked God, why is relationship so difficult?。
My relationship with God is fine, but why is the relationship between me and other people。
so difficult?。
And I seem to hear God telling me that he gave me an image of broken glasses and he。
said, when you use the broken glasses to look at the world, how can your world appear whole?。
If you see things out of a broken lens, how can your world be complete and in the right。
proportion?。
When your perspective is already broken and distorted, how can you see your own flaws。
and sin from the right proportion?。
And this is a powerful image, just as broken glasses distort everything we see, our past。
hurt and fears can distort how we view all our relationships.。
We might see potential betrayals when there is none.。
We might interpret neutral actions as hostile or expect the worst from people because that's。
what our broken lenses show us.。
In this series, we are talking about resurrection hope.。
Last week, we discussed the resurrection of the body and Pastor Chapman talked about how。
Jesus' resurrection means sin was defeated and death's power is no longer the final story.。
And what Jesus can resurrect isn't just our bodies, but also our relationship.。
This resurrected Jesus doesn't just leave the tomb, he enters into our locked rooms,。
resurrecting relationships we've sealed off with fear and failure.。
And today we're looking at scriptures from John 20, the scene where Jesus appears to。
his disciples.。
In verse 19 it says, "On the evening of that first day of the week, when the disciples。
were together with the doors locked for fear of the Jewish leaders."。
At this point, Jesus has already risen.。
At this point, the woman has already gone to the tomb, saw the empty grave, ran back。
to tell Peter and John, and Peter and John ran to the tomb and they saw the empty tomb.。
They know that Jesus has risen.。
But what did they do?。
They ran back to the room and locked themselves in for fear of the Jewish leaders.。
And I wonder if you can imagine what are some of the other emotions that might be in the。
disciples' heart or mind.。
Could anyone guess disappointment?。
What were they disappointed about?。
They were likely to be disappointed about themselves.。
Some of, some, if you remember who has boldly said, "If I have to die with you, I will。
never disown you.。
Even if I have to die with you, I will never disown you."。
But that person denied Jesus three times before the crow, before the rooster crow, and probably。
also faced identity crisis as their own identity comes from following Jesus.。
Most disciples have left everything behind.。
They left their livelihood behind, they left their families behind to follow Jesus.。
Being the follower of Jesus is their identity.。
But they're scattered when Jesus went to the cross.。
And now with Jesus risen, who are they anymore?。
Can they still call themselves the follower of Jesus?。
They might feel unworthy.。
Many theologians pointed out that disciples probably felt unworthy of the good news of。
the resurrection because they had completely failed.。
How could they face the risen Lord?。
The sense of shame made them prefer to hide.。
Fear, guilt, and shame made them hide themselves.。
Just like us, when we face with dead relationships, we have the same feelings as well.。
And at that moment, as the disciples hide behind locked doors, verse 19 continues, "Jesus。
came and stood among them and said, 'Peace be with you.'"。
Jesus didn't wait outside.。
He didn't demand the disciples to be brave and open the doors, "It's me, Jesus.。
You need to step out of your comfort zone."。
He didn't say that, but he directly entered that closed space, entering their most vulnerable。
situation.。
And what's more touching is that his first word wasn't accusations like, "Why did you。
run away?"。
Or questioning, "Where is your faith?"。
Or scold them to say, "Why are you so cowardly?"。
But instead, with deep acceptance, he said, "Peace be with you."。
And I connect with that so much.。
There were times when I have to go to spiritual healing sessions and prayer sessions, and。
the images that I have is often myself.。
I locked myself in a room with really heavy locks and doors.。
And that wasn't the first time I had that experience.。
Especially when I was young, whenever I feel frustrated or sad or angry, this is what I。
do.。
I lock myself in the bathroom and I just scream, an inaudible scream that I wouldn't let anyone。
know how I'm feeling.。
I wouldn't let people know that I'm frustrated or I'm sad.。
They don't know anything on the outside, but I locked myself in the bathroom.。
I cry, I scribble angrily.。
I just let my emotion out, but I would not let other people in.。
I wonder if Jesus was in that room with me at that time.。
Jesus didn't force the disciples to open the doors.。
He just directly entered in, saying that, "Peace be with you."。
This peace wasn't just a simple greeting.。
It was a direct response to the disciples' inner fear, a healing for their shame, a release。
from their confined space, and restoration of their broken spirit.。
This shows us that when we close ourselves off in fear, God doesn't knock with condemnation,。
but enters a situation bringing peace.。
He completely understands our weaknesses and why we need to lock ourselves in the door.。
This teaches us one important lesson.。
Resurrection.。
Resurrection hope doesn't wait for us to fix ourselves first.。
It begins the moment Jesus actively breaks through our walls of fear.。
It doesn't wait for us to fix ourselves.。
We don't have to do that, but it begins the moment that Jesus actively breaks in.。
I need to recognize my situation, that in the face of death, I cannot do anything.。
Why do I keep mentioning death in today's message?。
It's because if I feel like the door is just locked, I could still find the key to open。
in.。
If I think that my relationship with that person is just sickness, I could start to。
heal that sickness.。
Or if I think I am okay, I just feel a little off, I can help myself to feel better.。
But actually, I need to recognize that there is something dying in me.。
There's some death in me.。
There's nothing I can do in the face of death.。
And because of that, I cannot change myself.。
Jesus appearing in the locked room today tells us that He understands why we are hiding in。
locked rooms.。
He doesn't need us to be brave or outgoing to take the first step.。
When we cannot change ourselves, He's willing to enter into our hearts to bring us peace.。
And verse 20 continues.。
After He said this, He showed them His hands and side.。
The disciples were overjoyed when they saw the Lord.。
I believe that when Jesus on His journey to the cross, He has many injuries on His body.。
He was beaten and whipped by the soldiers.。
He has a thorny crown on His head, dug deep inside His head.。
There were many scars and wounds on His body.。
His resurrection power could absolutely heal everything.。
But He deliberately withheld the wounds on His hands and His side.。
This wasn't just to prove that He was the crucified Jesus, not just to confirm to the。
disciples that everything really had happened, that He has resurrected.。
But this is the reason, showing them the wound on His hands, tells them that this is the。
reason why He came.。
He came not to condemn us, but He came to tell us that I died for your sin, for your。
shame and for your guilt.。
I have come here to show you my wounds.。
I've come here also to show you my pierced side, to tell you that there's resurrection。
in me as well.。
That whatever death you have in your body, in your mind, that you cannot fix yourself,。
I am here bringing the resurrection power to you.。
But in me there is life, in me there is hope, in me there is peace.。
When the disciples saw the scars, they were overjoyed.。
This joy came from an amazing discovery, that those once pierced hands now show forgiveness。
and acceptance, that those spear-pierced sides now spoke of resurrection power.。
Those scars were no longer marks of death, but had become the sign of victory.。
These disciples had abandoned Jesus when He needed them most.。
Peter denied Him three times, but now the risen Lord appeared to them with these scars,。
offering not condemnation, but peace.。
And today, when we think of relationships we have locked away, or that have died, we。
don't need to live in endless self-condemnation, constantly beating ourselves up for not taking。
more steps, or feel guilty that, "Oh, the Bible tells us that I must forgive and I could。
not do that."。
No, we cannot do that.。
No, there are things that we can't do it on our own, but we need to accept that Jesus。
is now in our lives, bringing peace, bringing resurrection.。
What you cannot do becomes possible through Jesus' resurrection power.。
And when we truly understand this, we discover that restoring relationship doesn't start。
with what we can do, but with accepting what Jesus has already done for us.。
Restoring resolution doesn't start with, "I need to do now, I need to pray harder, I need。
to read the Bible more, I need to stop texting that person."。
No, actually, we need to accept that Jesus has brought healing in myself.。
Jesus is going to fix or mend or heal something that was once broken in myself.。
Broken relationship is not just about the relationship, it's about breaking something。
in your spirit as well.。
Whenever you meet with another person, that interaction did a little something in your。
life, and when the relationship is broken, you feel it in yourself.。
And so the healing doesn't just begin at the relationship, it begins in you.。
And by accepting what Jesus has done for you, restoration begins.。
It doesn't mean that our transgression doesn't matter or broken relationship doesn't need。
to be fixed, but rather we are filled with God's love and acceptance.。
When Jesus accepts sinful and limited me, I can finally remove the broken glasses and。
see myself clearly.。
We no longer rely on our strength to repair, but on the Lord who experienced the deepest。
brokenness and yet still choose to love.。
His resurrection power does not only heal and wipe our tears, but as we embrace the。
tears, as we embrace our little kids, that we are able to find that our life has been。
repaired and we can extend that to other people.。
When I was a teacher a few years ago, I was not a naggy person, but I became one because。
you know when all the clothes are on the floor and people say, "Oh, there's a funny story。
about clothes on the floor."。
So you know how lunchtime we need to bring curry?。
They have lunch, and there's one lunch they are having curry.。
And so this little kid, they brought the curry and they're so happy, "I'm having curry beef。
today."。
They walked over to the school bag and tripped and fell into the school bag.。
Well I haven't been a teacher and I understand that kids need to grow up and they need to。
start hanging their clothes.。
But I also learned that I can never nag a person to change.。
There's no amount of nagging that I can go and go, "You need to fix this.。
You need to improve.。
You need to do this and that."。
They can't do that.。
But what makes them change is that they feel that they're deeply loved.。
When the kids feel that they're so loved, they know that they're able to fail, but are。
still loved.。
When they're so loved, they know that I'm able to change, not because of the nagging,。
but because I'm loved and I want to show up for the person who loves me.。
When I'm so loved, I know that even if I fail, even if I have my limits, I am still loved.。
The love for me isn't depending on how well I do, but depend on that person who loves。
me regardless.。
And this is what Jesus is doing for the disciples in that locked room.。
He isn't telling them, "Oh, you're not following me good enough.。
You abandoned me.。
Now I don't love you anymore."。
No, He entered into the room telling them of His full acceptance and His full love for。
the disciples so that they can have the healing and courage to follow again.。
And today in our situation, maybe we feel like we have fallen short and we don't know。
how to pick ourselves up again.。
And today Jesus wants to show up in your room and tell you that, "I know that's why I come.。
I know we will fail.。
I know we have sins and limitations.。
That's why I come.。
Accept what I've done for you and let me love you so much that you know you can fail, but。
you can pick yourself back up again because I love you regardless."。
As mentioned earlier, the healing of our hearts in relationship isn't something we can achieve。
on our own, only in Jesus' resurrection power.。
And so in verse 22 to 23 it says, "And with that, Jesus breathed on them and said, 'Receive。
the Holy Spirit.。
If you forgive someone's sin, their sins are forgiven.。
If you do not forgive them, they are not forgiven.'"。
If you've read Acts 2, you might wonder, is it too early in the story?。
Weren't they supposed to wait for, you know, everyone wait in the room and the whole Holy。
Spirit came onto them and this whole spirit filling up in the upper room story?。
But theologians point out that this was the preparatory giving, preparing them for what。
was going to come, especially for the mission of relationship, restoration, and forgiveness.。
As described in Ezekiel chapter 37, 9 to 10, God's spirit blows on dry bones, connecting。
those dry, broken, scattered bones, rebuilding to rebuild broken fellowship.。
It is not just an individual thing.。
When the Holy Spirit come and give you life in yourself, it's not just individual, but。
actually in community, bringing you life, giving you fresh life through the Holy Spirit.。
And Jesus continues, "If you forgive anyone's sin, their sins are forgiven."。
This isn't calling the disciples to be judges, but channels of forgiveness, channels of forgiveness.。
That means if you have experienced Jesus' forgiveness, then you're able to forgive others.。
So in the K4C room, the purpose is not to teach good kids.。
The purpose of the kids ministry is not to tell them to follow rules, but actually tell。
them about God's love, tell them about God's forgiveness.。
They experience it so that they're able to channel it to the people around them.。
K4C isn't a space for them to learn to good behavior.。
It is a space for them to connect to God.。
And so are we here.。
This is just a bigger K4C room, right?。
This is just us learning to be kids before God, learning how to receive this unconditional。
love, learning to receive forgiveness so that we can do what we've experienced.。
If you've never received forgiveness before, how do you know the weight that's been lifted。
off your shoulders?。
If you haven't understood how you have been, you know, how you've been understood your。
limits and your sin, how can you do that to other people?。
I still encourage you to try to think about it, but come to church and worship and sermon。
and fellowship.。
Let us learn to receive the love and the forgiveness and this acceptance so that when we go out。
of the room, that room, that world that you're in becomes the bigger K4C room that we're。
able to channel that forgiveness and that love to other people.。
And today I would like to encourage you to take practical steps towards this resurrection。
in our relationship.。
Just as Jesus entered that locked room gradually, first bringing peace, then showing his scars。
and then breathing his spirit, we too can take gradual steps.。
And that is not a list of things to do list, but I want you to this week, go to a room。
and just think about and work with God, work with Jesus to show you the locked rooms that。
you're in.。
Maybe that relationship has locked you into a space where you felt shame and hurt.。
Maybe that relationship has locked you in a room where you condemn yourself of unforgiveness。
or other burdens.。
Talk to God, spend time with God to show you what locked relationship you might be in and。
then feel his presence in that relationship or in that hurt.。
You don't have to force yourself to do anything other than being aware that Jesus is with。
you in that room.。
He is with you.。
He is with you to bring you peace, to bring you healing.。
So before you go texting that person, before you go and ask that person out for a coffee,。
spend time with Jesus.。
Let him show you his scars.。
Let him show you his wounds on his side to let you experience that acceptance and the。
love that he has for you.。
And certainly when you're ready, take small acts of faith guided by the Holy Spirit for。
some relationship.。
It could be a simple message that I've been thinking of you or for others, it might be。
writing a longer letter or ask them to go out for a coffee.。
However, I do need to add this important note.。
For relationships that has been toxic or dangerous, your resurrection step could look a little。
different.。
It might mean just praying for that person from a distance or working on forgiveness。
without reconciliation or seeking counseling process to process your feelings.。
Setting healthy boundaries can be just as much of an act of resurrection as reconciliation.。
Remember that resurrection is an instant.。
Even Jesus' disciples took time to understand what is happening and you don't have to force。
yourself to respond immediately.。
But I do want to make space for us today to think about what God has been opening up in。
your heart and mind as well.。
So can I invite the worship team to come up.。
As I was preparing for this topic, the sermon, I do have a person in mind.。
A few years ago when I was in Australia, I would often talk to this person and every。
time I talked to that person, I would cry.。
The conversation is okay, it's nothing.。
But when I put my phone down, a wave of condemnation or manipulation just hit me and I couldn't。
enjoy the relationship I have with that person.。
And so in one of the worship session at church, I cry out to God.。
I worship and I go, "How can I fix this?。
What can I do?。
Is it something that's wrong in me that I'm not loving enough?"。
And that in that moment, I saw this person lying lifeless in front of me.。
Lifeless.。
And I picked that person up and I put it on the altar.。
And I go, "This person is dead.。
There's no life."。
But I surrender this person to God.。
Only Jesus, you have the power to resurrect.。
Only you can do what I cannot do.。
So I put this person on the altar and I believe that you will do this for me.。
And so I'd like you to pray.。
Close your eyes.。
I pray for those that are going through difficult relationships right now.。
That in your confined spaces, that you feel the presence of Jesus with you.。
That you will feel Him showing you His wounds on His hands and side.。
I pray for those that has a lot of self-condemnation.。
For those that are beating themselves up.。
That I pray for you to experience God, experiencing Jesus with you in that moment.。
That when He is not condemning you, why are you doing that to yourself?。
I pray for the breath of the Holy Spirit to come onto this room right now.。
Minister to us, Holy Spirit.。
That we recognize that there are things dying and there's nothing we can do about it.。
And we need you, Holy Spirit.。
I pray that everyone is able to step into next week knowing that you are fully known。
and deeply loved.。
I pray that as you finish the service today, stepping into your home, your office, your。
family, your workplace, that you feel this protection around you.。
Our message is not a message of fixing something.。
It is about accepting, accepting our Jesus, dying for us, giving us life and loving us.。
So I give you a time to pray, to pray for yourself, to talk to Jesus.。
Thank you, Holy Spirit.。
Thank you, Holy Spirit.。
We receive you, Holy Spirit.。
Thank you, Lord, for your protection, your love and your understanding.。
Thank you that you're with us.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
