We look forward to it, we thank you for it in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
- Amen, thank you, Promise.。
And welcome to everybody.。
If you're joining us online, welcome to you too.。
And out in the overflow, we're glad。
that everybody's here this morning.。
I do, I have problems remembering things.。
It was encounters with God, but for some reason。
I keep on saying encountering God.。
Last, a couple weeks ago when I was preaching,。
kept on saying persevere instead of,。
I have that anyway, okay, forget about it, okay.。
I have many problems, okay,。
is that what I'm trying to say, okay.。
One particular, apart from the obvious, right,。
things I am working to improve about myself, okay.。
There's honestly, there's one thing,。
one area that I see that I really don't like,。
but I'm trying to improve, okay.。
And this problem is this.。
My problem is that every time someone starts。
giving me instructions or directions,。
my brain shuts down, okay.。
Now you could see it's like a male thing, okay.。
I don't know, okay.。
I don't do it on purpose, okay, I don't think I do,。
but it's weird because, you know,。
I think I'm a relatively good listener.。
I like to be helpful, I like people.。
I generally think I'm quite teachable.。
You can ask Carla and my colleagues if that's the case,。
all right, but for whatever reason,。
when someone starts describing something to me,。
or especially when it comes to directions,。
how to get somewhere, or it's an instruction book。
or a recipe, I suddenly stop listening to words,。
like the words just don't make sense,。
and it all sounds like waka, waka, waka, waka, right,。
and my brain goes off.。
You know those dreamlands when people go off to。
in the movies, like, (imitates dream land)。
I'm thinking about like paddling on the ocean。
or whatever else, right.。
Anything but listening to the instructions.。
Now the most messed up thing is sometimes I'm the one。
that asks for the instruction in the first place, right.。
Even then, my brain shuts down, right.。
But, okay, the skill, I'm not sure if you could call it。
a skill, right, the trick is I look like I'm engaged.。
Okay, so I'll be nodding my head, mm-hmm, yep, wow,。
that's interesting, wow, wow, that's wild, you know.。
Also works when you want to pretend to be listening。
to your significant other and they're saying things,。
you know, it's like, wow, mm, that's crazy, right.。
Those kind of phrases, okay.。
But if you ask me, like, what did that person just say,。
or you know, what were the instructions?。
If you wanted me to repeat that, forget about it, okay.。
Now it's kind of funny sometimes, but I think for me,。
this really gets me in trouble when I start hearing。
from God, 'cause many times when I talk to God,。
I'm talking to God because I feel like I need。
some sort of guidance, some sort of instruction.。
But then my problem is, okay, when God responds。
and he answers, when he's giving me good instruction。
in what to do, am I willing to listen and to obey?。
And in our journey, in this series of encountering God。
or encounters with God, we are looking at today。
the story of Joshua.。
And if I could turn up, if I could sum up the story。
of Joshua in just one phrase, it would be this.。
Remember the importance of obedience.。
So let's take a look at the story and see what it has to say.。
Now the story of Joshua sort of serves as a turning point。
in the lives of the Israelites.。
Last week, Promise talked to us about Jacob。
and how God changed Jacob's life, right?。
He wrestled with Jacob and he changes his name to Israel.。
Well now, Jacob, aka Israel, then goes on to have 12 sons。
and one daughter.。
And the sons go on to establish what becomes known。
as the 12 tribes of Israel.。
And so the beginnings of a new nation。
are already starting to be formed, right?。
Now through one of Jacob's sons, Joseph,。
they all end up in the land of Egypt.。
But it's interesting because Egypt is not their land.。
They're starting to become a nation,。
the great big people group,。
but they don't have their own land.。
That's been promised to them ever since Abraham,。
but God is yet to fulfill this promise.。
And so the Israelites start to grow and prosper in Egypt,。
but the Pharaoh then becomes threatened。
and decides to take them into slavery, right?。
This group of people, they're growing,。
they're not our own people.。
We need to keep this under control.。
And so the Israelites get taken into captivity,。
into slavery.。
And whilst they're in slavery, they cry out to God for help.。
They cry out to God, you know, where are your promises?。
Where are you, Lord?。
And so God raises and sends Moses。
to deliver them out of slavery.。
So Moses leads the Israelites out of Egypt。
into freedom through the wilderness.。
And through the time in the wilderness,。
they continue to see God work and provide for them。
in miraculous ways.。
Things like parting the Red Sea,。
giving them the daily bread and meat,。
making water gush out from the rocks.。
He helps them defeat the enemies around them。
when they're attacked.。
But the most important thing God does with them at this time。
is to make a covenant.。
And within this covenant, there are rules,。
instructions, and directions on how to live their lives。
so they can live as an example to the nations around them。
and demonstrate what God is like.。
This is their calling, right?。
You're God's chosen people set apart.。
This is how then I want you to live as my people.。
This is what the covenant is about.。
And so all this time, they're slowly stumbling their way。
towards the promised land。
where God will eventually settle them.。
Now Moses, right, their leader at the time, however,。
is not able to lead the Israelites into the promised land.。
He actually dies just before he can see it happen.。
And so the book of Joshua starts as the Israelites。
are on the cusp of entering the new land,。
entering this promised land that God has given to them,。
and Joshua takes up the mantle。
to become Israel's new leader.。
This is the turning point.。
Now put yourself in Joshua's shoes for a minute.。
Think about, excuse me,。
think about what this moment has, sorry, Bex,。
what this moment must have been, okay?。
Again, if you hear, if you remember the story,。
Joshua had actually seen the promised land before.。
Way back in the day when Joshua was a younger man,。
he was a spy sent by Moses along with 11 other spies。
to check out the promised land.。
Now if you know the story, right, the 12 spies come back,。
10 of them give a bad report,。
say, "Aiya, too big a people, right, too strong.。
"We cannot enter the land.。
"We're too weak, they're too big."。
Okay, it's not going to happen.。
We're not able to defeat them.。
But two of the spies, Joshua and Caleb,。
God says had a different perspective.。
They had a different spirit.。
They had faith, and they knew that if God was the one。
who had told them to take the land,。
yes, the enemy might be strong,。
yes, it might look like it's impossible,。
but if God had said it would happen,。
then nothing would be able to stop them.。
And so as a result, God said the other spies。
and that generation of people who did not believe。
would not be allowed to enter into the promised land。
because they didn't obey God, because of the lack of faith.。
And only Joshua and Caleb would, in the end,。
end up entering into the promised land.。
And so what happens is they end up roaming around。
in the desert until this unbelieving generation had died off.。
But now, as I said, the moment is here.。
Joshua is ready.。
You can sense his anticipation, it's palpable.。
The promised land awaits, and God reassures him。
with these famous words, Joshua 1:9.。
You probably have a coffee mug with this on it, right?。
Have I commanded you, be strong and courageous.。
Do not be afraid, do not be discouraged,。
for the Lord your God will be with you wherever you go.。
So Joshua starts making preparations.。
There's a battle ahead, right?。
Because even though this land has been promised to them,。
like I said, they are cities and strongholds,。
there's people already living there。
that need to be defeated.。
And the first city he needs to take over。
is the city of Jericho.。
Now Jericho was a big, strong, fortified city,。
a city that did not worship God,。
they worshiped the pagan gods who religious practices。
involved the evils of things like child sacrifice,。
right, things like that.。
They definitely did not follow the God of gods,。
the king of kings.。
A big, strong city though, thick walls.。
From the outside it looked strong and shakable.。
It looked like an impossible challenge.。
And so Joshua, being the good military leader that he is,。
he had some tactics, he had some plans in mind.。
And he sent spies to check out what the situation is there.。
But when the spies come back this time,。
the report is a bit different.。
So during the spy mission, the spies are helped。
by a woman called Rahab.。
Rahab is a Canaanite prostitute。
that lives within the walls of Jericho.。
And through Rahab, they realize that the whole city。
is in fact terrified of the Israelites.。
They're terrified because they have heard。
the stories of the Israelites, right,。
how God defeated the Egyptians,。
how God parted the Red Seas,。
how God helped them with the different nations.。
And so Rahab begins to realize who this God is.。
Rahab recognizes, these are words,。
that the Lord your God is God in heaven。
and above and on the earth below.。
And so Rahab promises, I will help you, spies.。
I will help you, I'll keep you hidden, I'll keep you safe,。
if in return, when the time comes for Jericho。
to be destroyed, me and my household,。
those in my house, we're gonna be spared.。
And the spies oblige, they say, yes, if you help us,。
you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours,。
you know, good guanxi, you know, good Chinese practice,。
you know, the spies oblige, and so they move on.。
Now, there is one more situation, though,。
that the Israelites need to face。
before finally entering into Jericho.。
The entire nation of Israel has to once again。
cross over a body of water.。
This time, it's the Jordan River.。
And God is faithful.。
Just as God parted the Red Sea, God does the same thing.。
The waters of the Jordan River are parted,。
and the Bible tells us the Israelites。
are able to pass through on dry ground.。
The entire nation, the millions of people。
are able to pass through on dry ground.。
And so the Israelites celebrate, God is faithful,。
God is good, they build an altar in the middle of the river。
to remind them of this moment.。
It only serves, though, to remind the surrounding nations。
around Israel at this time who God is.。
And it says, when all the Amorite kings west of the Jordan。
and all the Canaanite kings along the coast。
heard how God had dried up the Jordan。
before the Israelites until they crossed over,。
their hearts melted in fear,。
and they no longer had the courage to face the Israelites.。
So the enemies are shaken,。
but the Israelites are celebrating.。
Now, why are we recalling all of this?。
It's always good, I think, for us to take a moment。
and remember God's faithfulness in the past,。
just as Emma encouraged us to do just now.。
Because yes, the task at hand for Joshua。
was big and seemingly impossible.。
But look at what had God done for them in the past.。
Look how faithful God has been.。
Whenever the Israelites had something that needed,。
God was there for them.。
Whenever God gave them instruction。
and told them what to do and they listened,。
things go well for them.。
Even the impossible situations, God always comes through.。
It's only when they disobey and turn away from the laws,。
turn away from the covenant that they have made with God。
that things start going badly.。
It's a reminder for us today.。
As we live our lives, as you look ahead,。
are you facing challenges?。
Are you noticing some things that are coming up。
that are gonna be tough, that are gonna be hard?。
Take time.。
Think back to how God has guided you in the past.。
Remember that there was one point in your life,。
I'm sure we've all been there,。
a point where you thought this is the lowest of the low.。
There is no way I'm moving on from here,。
but by the grace of God, here you are sitting today.。
Let that be an encouragement to how he will continue。
to walk with you and be with you in the future.。
I think this is exactly what Joshua would have been thinking.。
Like I said, on the cusp of entering。
into the long-awaited promised land,。
like the boxer on the eve of the biggest fight of his life,。
recalling all the past battles and all the past pain,。
it's about to be worth it.。
From growing up as a slave boy in the land of Egypt,。
seeing God rescue them in the most miraculous of ways,。
fighting alongside Moses.。
Now, of course, he's going through the grief,。
burying one of his mentors and his best friends.。
40 years later, Joshua's moment arrives.。
The new Israel, the new leader,。
finally seeing the fruit of his faith.。
Remember what Promise was saying last week。
about the waiting?。
Sometimes that waiting might take 40 years.。
40 years Joshua waited.。
For those of us waiting on things that God has promised you,。
hopefully this is an encouragement too.。
Your time is coming yet.。
And God is not slow to fulfill his promises。
as we understand slowness, but God will always be faithful.。
And in this moment, just before entering into Jericho,。
the Bible tells us Joshua has an encounter with God.。
Now, when Joshua was near Jericho,。
he looked up and saw a man standing in front of him。
with a drawn sword in his hand.。
Now, this would have been quite an unusual sight indeed.。
Doesn't really tell us what Joshua was doing.。
Maybe he was taking like one more scouting, one more trip,。
I'm really ready for the next day.。
Remembering the situation, right?。
He is about to go into war.。
He's just outside of enemy territory.。
And Joshua himself, a military man, a warrior,。
so seeing a man with a drawn sword。
would have put him on high alert.。
A drawn sword was a sign that this person。
was ready to fight.。
It's, you know, I'm about to engage in battle,。
why else would you draw your sword?。
But I don't think this was ever supposed。
to be an act of aggression.。
I think this was God's unique way。
of trying to capture Joshua's attention.。
You see, God did the same thing to his leader,。
to his mentor Moses a few years ago.。
The whole thing is the echo of what Moses experienced。
in his wilderness.。
When God first called Moses,。
he too was walking around in the wilderness。
looking after the sheep.。
He sees a strange sight, right?。
A bush that's on fire but doesn't burn up.。
So in his context, this is strange, right?。
I've been in the wilderness all this time,。
you know, a bush that doesn't burn up that's on fire,。
I'm gonna go and check it out.。
God uses something he knew would capture Moses' attention。
to draw him close and Moses responds.。
And in the same way now,。
God is trying to capture Joshua's attention.。
And he too does it in a way that he knows。
Joshua will notice.。
A man with a drawn sword would have captured。
the attention of a military man.。
And so Joshua responds.。
Our question for today, church.。
I wonder how God might be trying to grab your intention。
and initiate an encounter with you.。
This is a reminder for us to be on the lookout。
for these moments.。
Okay, they're probably not gonna happen all the time。
but God knows you and he knows the things。
are gonna grab your attention.。
The question is, will we have the eyes。
to recognize these moments and when we recognize them,。
will we then have the heart to respond?。
And we see that Joshua is ready.。
He sees a man and he responds by engaging with the man。
and asking him a question.。
Are you for us or for our enemies?。
It's beautiful, I love how direct Joshua is in this moment.。
His heart reflects the heart of a warrior and a leader.。
He doesn't back down.。
He stays true to his calling as God gave him, right?。
To be strong and courageous.。
Because as the leader of Israel now,。
there is a certain sense of a responsibility on him.。
He needs to know what he's dealing with here。
because if this person is for them,。
then maybe he could invite them,。
invite him to join them and help in his fight.。
But if he's part of the enemy,。
this is gonna be a problem, right?。
You have your sword, okay, I'm gonna draw my sword,。
let's throw down right now, okay?。
So he's thinking these things, right?。
He is relishing his role as the leader.。
He's ready.。
But what he's not ready for, I think,。
what he didn't think was gonna happen。
was the answer that this man gives.。
And the answer the man gives makes Joshua realize this,。
actually, this isn't just a normal person I'm talking to,。
but he's having an encounter with someone。
who is truly divine.。
The response is this, "Neither or no," he replies,。
"but as a commander of the army of the Lord,。
"I have now come."。
Then Joshua fell face down to the ground in reverence。
and asked him, "What message does my Lord。
"have for his servant?"。
Now, if you look through commentaries,。
that's a lot of questioning as to the identity。
of this person, who he really is.。
There's a common understanding,。
where this is an example of the theological term for this,。
is a theophany, right?。
Meaning this was an example of God himself。
manifesting in human form.。
Maybe a bit like what Jacob experienced last week,。
or Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the fiery furnace,。
there's a fourth person with them, that kind of a thing.。
Some people say that this was maybe a high-ranking angel。
in the Lord's army, right?。
We know that God has legions and legions of angels。
ready to fight on his behalf at any moment.。
Some people think it was an angel representing God,。
so sort of like a heavenly spokesperson.。
No matter who it is, there is no doubt。
that this is not a human being.。
But this was God's way of encountering Joshua.。
And so his first response is to fall in worship, right?。
Probably the only appropriate thing he could have done.。
Now, as I was reading this, it made me wonder,。
how would I respond, or how would we respond,。
if we suddenly found ourselves face-to-face with God?。
I mean, on a comical sort of level,。
I wonder if we could even handle it, right?。
I've seen people lose their minds。
when they encounter celebrities.。
I remember when I was about probably eight or nine years old,。
I was swimming at the YMCA,。
and Andy Lau suddenly appeared, right?。
Wow, yeah, there was already, yeah.。
Back then, okay, this was the early '90s,。
dating myself a little bit,。
but Andy Lau was probably like the most popular pop star,。
movie star in Hong Kong at that moment, okay?。
It's such a vivid memory.。
I remember what he was wearing.。
He was wearing, he wasn't wearing normal swimming shorts.。
He was wearing a bathing suit for men,。
so he had the straps that went down,。
like a mankini, I guess is what you call it, okay?。
It was black and white stripes, okay?。
Now, girls were going absolutely crazy.。
Wow, that's, you know, like, literally,。
flocking towards him, trying to push him into the pool, okay?。
Literally, the girls were going crazy for Andy Lau,。
and I thought to myself, I've got to get myself。
one of those swimming costumes, okay?。
Maybe that's what's working for him, I don't know.。
But we react when famous people come into,。
if Taylor Swift walked into this room right now, right,。
we would go nuts, right?。
This place would be bonkers,。
we'd all over YouTube, all over the news, right?。
She would start singing, we would sing along, okay?。
It would be crazy.。
And sometimes, I think, we think that's what。
encountering God's gonna be like.。
Oh, yes, it's gonna be amazing.。
It's gonna be so exciting, so cool.。
It's gonna be so great.。
But I think we might have to take a step back。
and think again, if that's what's in our minds.。
Because here's the thing.。
We say we want to have these encounters with God,。
but are we really ready for them?。
We say we want to see God's glory,。
but do we really know what seeing God's glory really means?。
Because when we look back through Scripture,。
a lot of times when people have these encounters with God,。
two things happen.。
First, there's the initial reaction.。
Right, often this includes things like fear and trembling.。
Like Joshua falling face down is a common reaction.。
Being unable to move is a common reaction.。
Realizing that we are sinful in the presence of holiness。
and a sense of impending doom upon our lives,。
that's a common reaction.。
But the second thing, this is usually followed,。
an encounter with God is also almost always followed。
by a command.。
Something we are to do.。
Something we need to follow.。
Something that's gonna require our obedience to Him.。
So let me ask this again.。
Do we really want to have an encounter with God?。
Because having a true encounter with God。
will most likely demand something from you。
and end up changing your life.。
Now sometimes I think we want to encounter with God。
because then we can finally have Him where we want Him.。
We can tell Him what we want and He'll give it to us, right?。
We want God to come into our space.。
We think we want to encounter God。
because that's the way to get God on our side.。
But when we look at God's response to Joshua,。
it's a reminder for us, this is a truth。
that maybe we don't talk about very often.。
Let me remind you, Joshua asked the questions,。
are you for us or for our enemies?。
God's answer is no, neither.。
I beg your pardon.。
These are the Israelites, these are God's people, right?。
Hasn't God been leading them precisely。
to this time and place?。
And yet before the biggest battle they're ever gonna face,。
God is saying, I'm not actually on your side.。
What happens with the promise that He would be with them。
wherever they go?。
You sometimes, as human beings,。
we want to give God our agenda.。
This is something we've become very good at, right?。
We want to drag God into our preferences and our ideas,。
claim that God is on our side。
because we want to make God fit into our plans,。
to what we think it's right.。
But really, church, it needs to be the other way around.。
God is reminding us He doesn't take sides.。
God stands alone.。
He is holy, He is set apart.。
And God's purposes are not subject to human agenda.。
God is not a God that can be manipulated。
into acting on our behalf and for our benefit.。
Now, this stands in stark contrast。
to what the worshipers of the pagan gods believed.。
Right, they were of the belief。
that there's certain rituals if you do this,。
if you give certain offerings,。
you can manipulate the gods into answering your prayers,。
into doing whatever you ask them to do, whatever it is.。
And actually, we still, this play out in Hong Kong today,。
in our modern-day context,。
some of this thinking still prevails.。
We're just at the tail end of the Hungry Ghost Festival,。
right, Yulanti, at the tail end of the Hungry Ghost Festival.。
And what's all that about?。
Right, burning offerings and incense and food。
and all these effigies of different things, right,。
appeasing these hungry ghosts and spirits。
so that we can manipulate them。
into actually not coming near us or staying away from us。
or blessing us in some way.。
Not so with our God.。
God will not be manipulated.。
Our God is the one true God.。
He is not one that can have his mind changed。
with gifts and offerings, no.。
We do not try and make God align with us.。
We are called to be fully committed to him.。
[audience member speaks faintly]。
This is an important part for us to rest on。
because unless we understand this,。
we'll spend hours and hours in prayer,。
doing good deeds, giving tithes and offerings,。
not because we are actually worshiping。
and submitting to him.。
Rather, we're trying to twist God's arm,。
but that's not how it works.。
The most beautiful thing about Joshua's response。
is he immediately realizes that this isn't about him.。
He doesn't say, okay, now I have you, God.。
This is what I want you to do.。
These are the enemies.。
This is how I want you to fight the battle.。
Instead, he says, God, what message do you have for me?。
What do you want me to do?。
Joshua fell face down to the ground in reverence。
and asked him, what message does my Lord。
have for his servant?。
The commander of the Lord's army replied,。
take off your sandals for the place。
where you're standing is holy, and Joshua did so.。
The three things that Joshua does here。
that I think we should adapt for ourselves。
when we ask for and when we find ourselves。
having an encounter with God.。
Firstly, like I said just now, it's this.。
Worship, face down in reverence.。
Worship has to be the first response to God.。
When we realize we're in the presence。
of the holy, almighty God, the first thing we do。
is bow down in worship to him.。
Secondly, though, it's submission.。
What message does my Lord have for his servant?。
Joshua gives up his agenda so he can hear from God.。
I can almost guarantee you that if God said at that moment,。
Joshua, you are not ready, the nation is not ready,。
turn around, go back into the wilderness。
until I call you again, Joshua would have done it.。
Obedience, God calls him to take off your sandals。
and Joshua did so.。
He obeys because he knows he's in the presence。
of a holy God.。
Church, the question for today is this.。
Will this too be our response?。
Will we be a people who are willing to live。
in total worship, submission, and obedience。
to our holy God?。
Because if we really want to see God move in our lives,。
if we wanna see victory in the challenges。
that we're facing, if we wanna see God do the impossible。
to bring the walls down, then this is how we need to live.。
Now the problem is we might say yes at first.。
Even in that, okay, yes, it's exciting.。
But what if living, because living this way。
might not make sense to us, though.。
We have to be ready for that.。
What if living this way means that you are no longer。
in control of your lives?。
What if living this way means you're gonna look。
absolutely silly and ridiculous and stupid。
to the rest of the world?。
This is sort of what happens to Joshua。
in the next chapter, in chapter six.。
The battle for Jericho finally begins.。
Only the tactics that God gives to Moses。
sound completely ridiculous.。
Listen for yourself.。
This is how you bring the most fortified city。
in the area down right now, okay?。
This is what God says.。
March around the city once with all the armed men.。
Do this for six days.。
Have seven priests carry trumpets of ram's horns。
in front of the ark.。
On the seventh day, march around the city seven times。
with the priests blowing the trumpets.。
When you hear them, sound a long blast on the trumpets,。
have the whole army give out a loud shout,。
then the wall of the city will collapse。
and the army will go up, everyone straight in.。
What?。
Okay, I'm not military trained,。
but no matter how you see it, this makes no sense.。
Right, there is no military strategy,。
whatever, that God gives, but that's precisely the point.。
Jericho was already ready for the taking.。
Like we found out just now, everyone was already scared.。
The battle was already won by God.。
Everyone inside was already shook with fear.。
God is saying, I'm not interested, Joshua,。
in your leadership skills or your military knowledge。
and your power.。
My heart is to find out if you are indeed a people。
that represent my name.。
Are you a people that are really willing to follow。
and obedient to me no matter what I call you to do?。
And it's the same for us today.。
If we wanna be God's people,。
if we wanna represent his name well,。
if we wanna encounter him, if we want him to work。
in our lives, we must be willing, church, to be obedient.。
And being obedient is gonna mean that at times。
our actions are gonna be strange and unusual。
to those around us.。
It's not just this.。
The Bible is full of examples about people willing。
to do ridiculous things in the Lord's name。
because God told them so.。
Noah was told to build an ark when the earth。
had never even seen rain before.。
Abraham was told to get up and go。
without knowing where he was going.。
Daniel ate nothing but vegetables,。
but yet still became bigger and plumper and fatter。
than everyone else around him.。
All right, how's that for the Daniel diet?。
Ezekiel was told to lie on his side for 360 days.。
Hosea was told to marry a prostitute.。
Isaiah preached naked for three years.。
Attendance would go down to zero.。
John the Baptist lived in the desert and ate locusts.。
Zacchaeus gave people back four times。
the amount that he took.。
Jesus went to the cross and gave his life.。
None of what these people did makes sense。
from our perspective, yet they did so。
out of their obedience to God.。
You see, this was never about God preferring。
the Israelites over another group of people.。
This was always about God seeking those。
who were obedient to him.。
To prove this point, look what happens to Rahab.。
Rahab, who was part of the enemy,。
part of the Canaanites living in Jericho,。
Rahab would have been destroyed with the rest of Jericho,。
but God keeps his promise to Rahab。
because she and her household were willing。
to be obedient to God.。
And what does Rahab go and do?。
She features in the lineage and the genealogy。
of Jesus himself.。
What about you?。
You see, as Christians, obedience is going。
to be a roadblock that we're gonna run into.。
Right, we have these goals in our lives,。
goals that we wanna reach, things we wanna see happen,。
walls that we wanna see brought down and removed,。
prayers that we wanna see answered,。
but yet when God gives us instructions。
on how to overcome them and how to reach our goals,。
sometimes I think we become like what I said。
I was in the beginning, right?。
We don't wanna follow his guidance,。
we don't wanna follow his instructions,。
like okay, okay, Lord, whatever,。
I'm just gonna do it my own way.。
We think we can do it better ourselves,。
so we strive and we try and we stumble and we fall,。
and then we have the audacity sometimes。
to go back and blame God and say,。
well, it didn't work out for me.。
The story of Joshua, though, reminds us.。
God's thoughts are not our thoughts.。
His ways are not our ways.。
And the wisdom of the world is foolishness in God's sight.。
What God is looking for are people。
who are willing to be obedient.。
Now, we have to think what that means in our context,。
in our culture, in our society for today.。
Now, I don't know, it could be a bunch of stuff,。
but for example, it might be choosing to reserve sex。
within the context of a marriage relationship.。
Maybe it means loving your enemies。
and praying for those who persecute you。
instead of attacking them and drawing these divides。
that we so have.。
Maybe it's being truthful。
in the way you conduct your business,。
when all the other businesses around you。
are known for leaving figures out。
and skimming off the top and all that kind of stuff.。
Maybe God is calling you to give faithfully,。
even if it's at a sacrifice to you.。
Things like this might make you look strange.。
Things like this are not easy to do,。
but it's obedience to God.。
And today, if you hear this message,。
how is God asking you to be obedient to him?。
The point of Joshua's encounter。
wasn't that God would give him victory over the enemies.。
Like I said, that was already a given.。
But what it gave him was a deeper heart,。
a deeper understanding, and a deeper desire。
to be obedient to God and see him working in his life.。
It helped Joshua to understand。
that God's work in our lives。
isn't about how big or good, how strong,。
and how great our plans are,。
but rather it's how devoted we are。
to doing whatever God has called us to do.。
And our prayer for us, church, this morning is the same,。
that as we encounter God, our hearts will be turned,。
our hearts will be changed,。
and that he would give us hearts。
that are more obedient to follow him,。
no matter where he leads us to go.。
So if you would, church, just close your eyes.。
Let's pray for a moment.。
[pages flipping]。
One thing that I know we haven't talked about yet,。
but as we pray about it,。
the word obedient triggers so many things。
in our hearts and minds, I feel like.。
'Cause often we feel like obedience to do with punishment.。
[soft music]。
And I can hear the words ringing in my head.。
[speaking in foreign language]。
You're not listening to me again.。
You didn't do what you're supposed to do.。
Now I'm gonna punish you.。
I want you to know that's not God's heart today.。
He's not using your lack of obedience。
as an opportunity to chastise you.。
[soft music]。
But it's a call back towards him.。
And yes, there might be some pain in that,。
leaving things that we're not supposed to behind。
that we've become so attached to will have pain.。
And there are consequences to disobedience, as we've said.。
But God's heart in calling you back close to him,。
calling you to be obedient to him,。
it's because he loves you.。
It's because this is what you were created for,。
to represent him,。
to do the good works that he has prepared for you to do,。
to praise and to worship him.。
That's where true life is found, no matter who we are.。
And so Jesus, I pray that above all things,。
we would look to you.。
[soft music]。
We thank you for your example,。
that you were willing to be obedient even to death,。
and death on a cross.。
And so Father, I pray that you would shape。
and mold our hearts in the same way.。
That as you call us,。
we would be willing to give up whatever it is that we have,。
whatever it is that we've been holding on to.。
So that we can have you.。
So Holy Spirit, I pray that you would guide us。
in this endeavor as well.。
It is a challenge.。
It is not something we're gonna be able to muster up。
our own will and power to do,。
but only when accompanied by the power of the Holy Spirit,。
can we walk in line with how God has called us to live.。
May this, Lord, be what we're known for.。
A people, a church, the body of Christ,。
in total submission and obedience。
to what you have called us to do.。
We pray in Jesus' loving, powerful, saving name.。
Amen.。
[soft music]。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
