Amen.。
Thank you, church.。
Thank you, worship team.。
That was a beautiful time.。
As you sit down, maybe someone new sat down next to you as we've been worshiping.。
You can say hello.。
Let's be friendly, welcoming.。
If you're joining us online, good to see you as well.。
All right.。
Well, good to see everyone this morning.。
If you've been with us for a few weeks, you might know we've been walking through a sermon。
series we've entitled Public Faith.。
We've been talking about how to live a bit more publicly with the faith that we profess。
to have in Jesus, how that actually makes a difference in the way we live our lives.。
Today the topic is relationships.。
We're talking about relationships today.。
If I did a little survey of everybody, probably most of you, 90 something percent probably。
I would say would have some sort of a social media on your phone or your computer.。
You're involved in some way, Instagram or WeChat or whatever it is.。
There's some kind of social media that you have.。
But before we had all these platforms today, I'm going to take us back a little bit.。
There was one, like the original social media platform.。
This is the place where I lived.。
This was a time of dial up internet.。
Some of you remember that, right?。
When you would log into internet and you'd be like, "Eee, eee, eee, eee, eee."。
Sounds like a cat dying before you could like log on to the World Wide Web.。
And once you were online, you'd have to pray that nobody called the home phone because。
if somebody called the phone and your mom picked up or something, it would disconnect。
the internet and you have to start what you're doing all over again.。
So there's two things I would do when I was online back then.。
First was visit a website called LimeWire.。
Does anybody know what LimeWire is?。
Yeah, okay, Marcus is a dodgy guy, right?。
LimeWire was, okay, it was, you could get music for free, okay?。
Now, that's what people told me, okay?。
But the next thing I would do is log into the internet to listen for a particular sound,。
a sound that some of you might recognize.。
It goes a little bit like this.。
Do you remember that?。
Right?。
I just triggered every single millennial here in this place, okay?。
Every time I hear that, okay, I'm immediately taking...。
Oh, there you go.。
Every time I hear that noise, it's pre-Teen Ellison, okay?。
I'm taking right away.。
I'm sitting at my home computer, which is in the living room, okay?。
It's got like the massive box of a monitor, right?。
Making all this noise.。
It's late at night, and it's just me and the warm glow of the giant monitor that's in front。
of me, right?。
And the sound you just heard was from a platform called iSeekU, right?。
iSeekU, right?。
The original social media platform.。
There was this instant messaging where you could, you know, log in and chat to your friends,。
but you could also connect to random people all over the world, right?。
Super fun, lots of different things you could do.。
So there would be, right, sign in to iSeekU, waiting for my school crush to message me,。
okay?。
Right?。
You're just waiting on line, right?。
Is she gonna log in tonight?。
Is she not?。
I don't know, okay?。
It's a little bit exciting, right?。
And when you get the, "Uh-oh," sound, right?。
Yes, okay, I've received a message, right?。
Yeah, right?。
And so the girl I was crushing on at the time would send me a message, right?。
Full of flutter of excitement would flow through the body, and there you were, like, chatting。
away.。
It was like you were on an online date almost, right?。
And me and her, we would chat for hours on iSeekU, right?。
Sharing our deepest secrets, declaring our puppy love to each other, right?。
And I felt like, you know, I had a little bit of game on iSeekU, okay?。
I was funny, I was clever, I was romantic, you know, a little bit cheeky maybe, but super。
confident, right?。
The kind of dude I would think that all girls want to talk to, like, stereotypically, I。
guess, right?。
Which was super confusing because when we went back to school the next day, things were。
completely different, right?。
I would see her at school, say, "Hey, Louisa," okay?。
"Hi," her name was Louisa, "Okay, hi, Louisa, how's it going?"。
Right?。
It was so fun chatting to you last night.。
And the response was, you know, just like, "Oh, what are you doing?。
Like, why are you talking to me?"。
It was like a scene of, you've seen the movie "Mean Girls," right?。
It was a bit like that.。
It's like, "Ew, like, why are you even talking to me?"。
Maybe it's because back then I was, you know, 3'2" with like a super squeaky voice, right?。
And she was like the pretty popular girl, and she just didn't want anything to do with。
me in real life, right?。
It's a bit sad.。
No, it's okay.。
It's okay.。
It's okay.。
I'm just telling you guys, this is my way of processing, all right?。
Yeah.。
But I realized something then, right?。
I learned that actually online there was this weird power that you could have, right?。
And a bit of a mystery, right?。
You could be behind a screen and a keyboard, and suddenly you could be whoever you wanted。
to be, right?。
You could talk to whoever you wanted to and say whatever you wanted to say, but that didn't。
always translate into what was happening in real life.。
And as internet and social media platforms and all that stuff developed over the years,。
things are super sophisticated now compared to back then.。
The ability to be this other person behind a screen and a keyboard has only increased,。
right?。
And I would say in general, it's had some really bad and terrible impacts on our humanity。
and especially our relationships.。
It's not all bad.。
Some fun things have come out of it as well, but in general, it's had a pretty bad impact。
on our relationships.。
Just look at some Instagram posts and just scroll through the comment section, right?。
Sometimes something quite, you know, you would say was quite normal, just a normal post,。
it's filled with like rude and mean and ugly, nasty, racist, sexist, judgmental, homophobic。
comments all around, right?。
Things that you would never say, right?。
Horrible things that you would never say to a person face to face, suddenly because you're。
online, you feel like there's no problem voicing your opinion.。
Scientists call this the online disinhibitation effect.。
And we feel bolder to say these wild things online because there is anonymity, right?。
Nobody really knows who you are.。
You can even create, and people do, right, fake accounts to comment on people's stuff,。
right?。
There's a sort of invisibility.。
You can't really see the damage that you're causing to the other person receiving these。
comments, right?。
There's a...they call it the asynchronicity, which means that, you know, you can't see。
it, and the timing of it, right, it's not immediate.。
Like, if you're having a face to face comment, if I said something bad to Jackie, I could。
see his reaction straight away.。
But you can't see the other person on the other side.。
Online is also like the Wild West, right?。
There's no authority, right?。
And what happens when there's no authority?。
Well, people start wilding out.。
They start doing whatever they want.。
You just have to be a parent or a teacher, right?。
Or maybe even in your office, or the boss goes away, the mics come out to play, right?。
And so, all these things happen online, and they are terrible for our relationships.。
On the other side of that, though, right, online, we also feel like that, actually,。
you know, it's a place where we can only show good things.。
No bad vibes or whatever people say, right?。
And so, our social media spaces make it seem like life is, you know, stress-free, luxury。
holidays, fast cars, nice clothes, beautiful people, fancy restaurants, well-behaved children,。
right?。
And it's like a highlight reel that we have to keep on conveying to the world.。
Now, we all know this isn't reality.。
Nobody really lives like that.。
Everybody's lives are completely immune to stress, and brokenness, and struggles.。
But when all we do is showcase the highlights of our life, right, we start to build barriers。
in relationship because those kind of things, inevitably, start to build things like envy,。
and jealousy, and even resentment with the people who are looking at it.。
Now, as followers of Jesus, this online space that has been, you know, sort of growing up。
with us, right, has been challenging.。
It is challenging to sort of be a good Christian and know how to act online.。
It's easy to get caught up in the negativity, start attacking others from behind the screen,。
or to feel like we have to keep up with the Joneses, right?。
So there's pressure that we have to make it look like life is perfect all the time.。
And if we're not careful, our online selves can start to not resemble our relationship。
with Jesus, right?。
There's little evidence of our online selves that we are actually Christians.。
And the danger is, in the most public space available for us to display our faith, sometimes。
there's nothing to be seen.。
And so even though we have this space where we're connected, you know, where we can basically。
be connected to anybody in the world at any time, relationships are suffering in that。
space.。
But it's not just online.。
It's also in our daily face-to-face personal relationships that are struggling as well.。
As Andrew pointed out at the beginning of the series, right, we have been called to。
be salt and light in this world, right?。
And salt and light is what we're supposed to be as followers of Jesus.。
We're supposed to be the ones who bring the flavor of Jesus, the flavor of God to a broken。
world.。
We're supposed to be the ones who shine the light of Jesus in the sinful and dark places。
that we come across.。
But when we do this, it means that we have to stand out.。
It means that we have to fight for and believe in and speak up and act upon things that will。
often go against popular culture.。
And that's a hard thing to do.。
And so instead, we feel the pressure to blend in.。
We lose our saltiness, we dim our light, and we begin to conform to this world instead。
of letting the power of Christ transform us.。
And it plays out in many different ways, right?。
Maybe you're at school, and at school there's a lot of parties, right?。
People going out to parties, getting drunk, making terrible decisions, doing other stuff。
that you know is wrong.。
But you feel like you have to go along with the crowd and do what everyone else is doing.。
Otherwise, you're going to be the odd one out, right?。
You're going to be the Christian goody two shoes, the party pooper, and nobody wants。
to hang out with anybody like that.。
Or maybe you're in a relationship, in a romantic relationship, and there's increasing pressure。
to be sexually intimate without or before getting married.。
As culture would say, "Just go and enjoy each other.。
It's only natural.。
Everybody's doing it."。
What kind of prude, corny, backwards, old-fashioned thinking is to think that sex is only reserved。
for marriage?。
Or maybe like Pastor Jennifer talked about the other day, at your workplace, in your。
relationship with your colleagues and your boss, dishonest practices have become commonplace.。
Nobody values the truth.。
And if you don't follow suit, well, you're going to cost everyone their bonus.。
You're going to affect the bottom line.。
Who's going to want to work with a person like that, right?。
And so here's the problem.。
Because we want relationships, we feel like we need to conform.。
We feel like we need to change who we are.。
We feel like we need to compromise our faith and our values in Jesus.。
And the more we do that, the more we change, we start to lose ourselves in the whole process.。
We don't even know who we are anymore.。
We don't even know our own identity.。
Which version am I supposed to be in this situation?。
The online self, the one at work, the one at church, the one in the gym?。
I'm trying to fit in.。
The more we try to fit in, the more we begin to lose ourselves.。
But listen, if everybody's sort of doing this, if nobody's really being real with each other,。
how are we ever going to have these meaningful relationships that we all crave?。
And it's a huge problem because it goes against how God designed and created us to be.。
Because the truth is, you and I and everyone else has been created in the image of God.。
And in the way he made us to be was to have these deep, meaningful, genuine, life-giving,。
joyful relationships with him and with each other.。
There's no denying we've been created this way.。
This is why everybody craves relationships.。
If you go all the way back to Genesis, when God was doing his thing, creating the heavens。
and the earth, after each day of work, he declared it was good.。
If you remember the story, right?。
Light and darkness, good.。
Sky and land, good.。
Sun, moon, planets, good.。
Animals and fish, good.。
Human beings, good.。
At the end, God declared it was all very good, what he'd created, apart from one thing.。
There was one thing he said that was not good.。
Can you imagine that?。
It's a perfectly created universe.。
God said there was one thing that was not good, and that was loneliness.。
God says this, "It is not good for the man to be alone.。
I will make a helper suitable for him."。
And because of that, Eve is created.。
And she and Adam, Adam and Eve, have this flourishing, deep, authentic, vulnerable relationship.。
We know this because the Bible says they were naked and unashamed.。
They were naked and unashamed.。
They could be completely themselves with each other and find the acceptance and the love。
and the relationship that we were designed for.。
Like I said, this is why we crave relationships, because we have been designed and created。
so that it is not good for us to be alone.。
And so why is it that in an era where we are as connected as ever, the epidemic of loneliness。
increases to rise?。
This is because the true potential of relationship can only be realized when we relate to God。
and to each other the way he designed it to be.。
And so we have a problem.。
And as always, the problem is sin.。
Sin has completely messed up our relationships.。
Scripture tells us the enemy has come to rob, kill, and destroy, and this is what's happened。
with our connection to God and our connection to each other.。
And this is why we conform, we give in, we give ourselves over and lose who God created。
us to be.。
But listen, if the whole process of us building relationship with each other is built on a。
version, not the real version of what God created you for, and not the true and real。
you, but another version of yourself, then of course it's not gonna work.。
Everything has been based upon a lie.。
If you've literally had to change everything about yourself just to fit in with a group。
or make this person like you or to date you, and you begin to find yourself struggling。
in relationship because it's unfulfilling, it starts to feel shallow and fake, and eventually。
that becomes too unbearable, well that's only natural because God didn't create us to approach。
relationships in this way.。
And instead, relationships, instead of being these life-giving, joyful things that we can。
enjoy, relationships have become a deep source of pain, even a way for us to hurt each other.。
And sin has so poisoned this that we don't feel like we can be ourselves anymore.。
We feel like we cannot come before each other unashamedly.。
But today I'm gonna say there is a better way to do relationships.。
What the enemy has come to seek, kill, rob, and destroy, Jesus says he has come to give。
us life and life in the full.。
And that full life is found when our relationships aren't shaped by the world, but rooted in。
the real love of God.。
And the gospel tells us actually, we know what this love looks like, right church?。
Scripture gives us good guidelines for how we can live out these genuine life-giving。
relationships.。
Romans 12, 9 tells us this, that if we wanna do this, then first of all, our love must。
be sincere.。
We must hate what is evil, cling to what is good.。
Love must be sincere.。
Now, growing up in Hong Kong, every time I hear the word sincere, I think about the department。
store.。
Does anybody think that way, right?。
Oh, sincere, okay.。
So we're not talking about the sincere department store, okay?。
Sincere here means free from pretense, deceit, and proceeding from genuine feelings.。
You see, fake love, fake love is actually one of the most damaging things we can do。
to each other.。
And some of us in this room, some of us in this room have taken advantage of this.。
We've seen someone looking vulnerable.。
We've seen someone we know, oh, maybe they're looking for love and acceptance and connection。
and friendship.。
And so we come along that other person, and you know the right words to say.。
You know how to pretend to care.。
But meanwhile, you know that none of it is real.。
And there's an agenda, there's an evil purpose to manipulate and deceive others with a false。
sense of love just so you can get what you want.。
Let me tell you that, church.。
If that's you today, I'm gonna say there's no place for that in this community.。
You're welcome to come and worship here.。
You're welcome to come and join in with us, but we will not tolerate people manipulating。
others for their own benefit.。
That's God's heart.。
Because some of us, we've been victims of this.。
We've given ourselves away to someone else because we believe that the love they had。
for us was sincere when it wasn't.。
We heard the words, we felt the feelings, and so we give away our trust, our time, our。
money, our resources, our bodies, only to find out actually it was all a lie.。
And that stuff hurts.。
And it hurts us so much sometimes that we feel like we never, ever want to open ourselves。
up again for the fear of being hurt.。
But let me remind us, church, today, there is nothing fake about God's love.。
In fact, you might argue the entirety of Scripture, the whole point God put this book together。
was just to show us just how much he loves us.。
Writing in these Bible stories we share with our children, Noah and his family, God guiding。
Noah to build the ark to save him from the floods.。
Him leading the Israelites out of slavery, providing for them everything they needed。
in the wilderness as he guided them towards a promised land.。
The way he fights battle for his people time and time again, sending prophets with messages。
and witnesses of promises and comfort.。
He declares his love, right, that reaches to, the Bible says, a thousand generations,。
right?。
That's just a hyperbole, by the way, just to say that it will never, ever end.。
It goes on and on and on and on.。
Even as we rebel against him, Scripture tells us he refuses to give up on us.。
And ultimately, God reveals his love for us by sending us Jesus in the flesh.。
And Jesus, our Savior, becomes the perfect example of love.。
A love that reaches out to everybody.。
A love that is not involved to get involved in the hurts and pains of a broken world.。
Instead, step right in.。
A love which was willing to sacrifice his own life and Jesus going to the cross so that。
our sins can be forgiven.。
The Bible tells us love has certain qualities.。
It says love is patient.。
Love is kind.。
It does not envy.。
It does not boast.。
It is not proud.。
It does not dishonor others.。
It is not self-seeking.。
It is not easily angered.。
It keeps no record of wrongs.。
Love does not delight in evil but rejoices in the truth.。
It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres.。
Love never fails.。
This is the kind of love that Jesus displayed.。
This is the kind of love that God cares for us.。
Which means then this is the kind of love that we're supposed to show each other in。
relationship.。
But Paul doesn't stop there, right?。
He says love what is sincere, hate what is evil.。
We cannot truly love somebody if we're not willing to confront the things that threaten。
and ruin that love.。
And real love will always stand up against evil and it's going to refuse to ignore the。
things that tear people apart.。
And this is a reminder for us because if we're honest, right, we will all say we hate evil.。
There's no one in this room, okay, that would say, "Oh yeah, I love doing evil things,"。
okay?。
But at the same time, on some level, we all wrestle with it.。
And I would say all of us probably have a little bit of fascination with the evil, with。
the sinful things on this world.。
And like I said to you, it's because sin has infected every single thing we do in our lives.。
And the presence of evil in this world is precisely why we face these struggles in relationship.。
And so we need to ask ourselves, how does God define evil?。
What are some of the things that God hates?。
Well gladly for us, Scripture also gives us some very clear pictures of the things that。
He hates.。
Proverbs 6 actually tells us very, very clearly what the Lord hates.。
There are six things the Lord hates.。
Can't get more clear than that.。
Seven that are more detestable to Him.。
Haughty eyes, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked。
schemes, feet that are quick to rush into evil, a false witness who pours out lies,。
and a person who stirs up conflict in community.。
Now if you notice, there's a common thread that runs through this list.。
Every single one of these characteristics of evil are things that are detrimental to。
relationships.。
Did you catch that?。
Haughty eyes refers to those who are arrogant and think they're above everyone else.。
A lying tongue is those who speak things that are not true, but who twist the truth instead。
for their own gain.。
Hands that shed innocent blood, a person who are unable to control their anger to a point。
that they're willing to get violent.。
A heart that devises wicked schemes refers to those who will compromise everything just。
so then it works to their own advantage.。
Feet that rush toward evil are those who look forward to do wrong and even get away with。
it.。
False witnesses are those who refuse to uphold justice, but instead trample on other people.。
And the person who stirs up conflict are those ones who attempt to break up the very building。
blocks which hold society together.。
Now if I were to ask you, this probably sounds like the person that you don't want to be.。
You probably wouldn't want to be connected in community or in a relationship with people。
like this.。
But again, if we're really honest, perhaps sometimes these are the characteristics that。
we bring to relationships instead of genuine love.。
As I reflect on myself, I was preparing this, often it seems like despite my best efforts,。
they are evil tendencies that I really have to wrestle with when I relate to other people.。
Arrogance is one that I find hard to wrestle with.。
If I'm just being really honest, it's very hard, I'm a judgmental person.。
So it's hard for me, especially when it comes to things that I do, right, and sometimes。
when it comes to preaching, it's hard for me not to sit there and listen and thinking。
things like, "Oh, that's not even right.。
I wouldn't have said it like that.。
You could have said it in a different way.。
That's not the right way to approach the text."。
And I just start being super critical.。
And the ugly way that works out in my life is, "Oh, I'm much better than that person.。
I should be doing that instead."。
A heart that defies its wicked schemes.。
Again, that sounds harsh.。
And as I was reflecting, I feel like I try to be a person of integrity, but I also know。
that it's very easy because of my position as a pastor, as a trusted member of the community,。
to twist and turn things to my own advantage.。
And I find I really have to watch myself a lot of the time, not to abuse the trust that。
other people have given to me for my own gain, for my own advantage.。
And this is not an easy process.。
Building relationships that reflect God's love is going to be a battle, a battle every。
day against our own sinful tendencies, letting go of things like pride, selfishness, envy,。
and fear, which is why Paul goes on to say then, "Cling to what is good."。
With everything we have, cling on to what is good.。
Let go of those other things so you can cling on to what is good.。
But what is good?。
Goodness, we've just defined, is Jesus, right?。
Jesus is our definition of goodness.。
And Jesus doesn't just call us to differently.。
Thankfully, he also then empowers us to live differently.。
When we hold on to Jesus, we're empowered to do things, to do relationship, not in our。
own strength, but with God's strength.。
To Peter 1, 3-4 tells us like this, that his divine power has given us everything we need。
for godly life through our knowledge of him who has called us by his own glory and goodness.。
Through these things, he has given us every great and precious promise so that through。
them you may participate in the divine nature, having escaped the corruption in the world。
caused by evil desires.。
In other words, if we want to get back to the kind of relationships that are built on。
holy, pure, and godly love, the kind of relationships that we were created for, we can do that,。
but only through his power.。
Only through being, only through clinging on to Jesus and what he's called us to do.。
Now, this is an important point to keep in mind.。
One of the dangers when we start talking about things like better relationships is that it。
begins to sound a little bit like self-help.。
Let me be very clear.。
Again, this is not self-help.。
Self-help will tell us that if we want better relationships, we just need to be a better。
version of ourselves.。
You could do that right now.。
Log on to Google or go down to the bookstore if we still do those things.。
There's thousands of self-help books, conferences, things, podcasts you can listen to to help。
make you a better person.。
And yes, it probably will have a little bit of effect or maybe even a good effect on your。
relationships.。
But here's the thing about that.。
If we just talk about self-help, self-help will only get you so far in this world.。
But the gospel is for salvation in this life and the next.。
Remember, when we're talking about public faith in this series, and the goal of public。
faith is not that people would look at us and say, "Oh, that's a good person.。
That's a great guy.。
That's a good example of a human being."。
There's no gospel power in that.。
The whole point of this public faith series is that we are preaching the gospel with our。
lives, right?。
So that whether it's in parenting, in ambition, in work, and yes, in our relationships, people。
will look at us and see, "Oh, I don't just see a good person.。
I see Jesus in that person.。
That's the kind of relationship I want.。
That's the kind I want to be because this person reflects Jesus."。
And when we have relationships like this, we no longer need to conform and fit in to。
the way other people think because we're saying to people, "Come as you are.。
Just as Jesus has welcomed me, we welcome you."。
When we have relationships like this, we are willing to sacrifice for each other, not just。
look out for ourselves.。
When we have relationships like this, we rejoice with others just as well as we mourn with。
each other.。
When we have relationships like this, our goal becomes out honoring each other instead。
of using people as a stepping stone to get what we want.。
When we have relationships like this, we don't need to pretend like life is perfect, but。
we can come with every sound of brokenness and sadness and sorrow and all the things。
we wrestle with and find acceptance.。
We can have relationships like this because Jesus is the reason that we're being brought。
together.。
You see, this isn't just about better relationships.。
It's about your witness.。
And people are deciding what to believe about Jesus based upon how you love each other.。
So our job is to continue to hate what is evil, cling on to what is good.。
So by that, people can tell we are Christians by the love we have for each other.。
Now of course, this sounds idealistic.。
And the truth is, it's a challenge really to live this way.。
We all try and do this, but it's easier said than done.。
And amongst us in the community, we all have different experiences of this.。
And one of the beautiful things we've been doing throughout the series is to invite people,。
voices from the community to share how we wrestle with these things.。
And so today I want to invite a friend of mine to the stage.。
This is a young man that I've known for some time.。
We've got a good friendship.。
He's a young adult that's been studying in Hong Kong for a while now, trying to navigate。
life as a professional.。
Brothers and sisters, please help me to welcome my friend, my friend, Aaron Shanley to the。
hot seat.。
I'm being uncharacteristically nice to Aaron right now.。
I think he's getting a bit freaked out.。
Extremely.。
Yeah.。
All right.。
Well, welcome Aaron.。
Thank you for being with us.。
Thank you for sharing.。
Why don't you start by introducing yourself a little bit.。
And yeah, I think people are interested in just, yeah, you first of all.。
Yeah, sure.。
Well, I...。
Okay, that's enough.。
So first question.。
My cue to leave.。
Yeah, my name is Aaron.。
I'm Indian, if you couldn't tell.。
I was born and brought up in the Middle East in a country called Oman.。
I came to Hong Kong roughly six and a half years back for university.。
I studied economics.。
Then I graduated two and a half years back.。
And now I'm working in a consulting adjacent field.。
Yeah.。
Yeah.。
Oh, and I guess just for a bit more context, like I came from a culturally Christian family,。
but I really gave my life to Christ about like five years back.。
Yeah.。
So praise God for that.。
Yeah.。
Praise God for that indeed.。
Yes.。
Aaron is also one of our leaders within our young adults community.。
We call 180.。
And he's also recently started serving downstairs at K4C with our kids as well.。
So involved in a lot of different amazing ways.。
I'm kind of surprised by that actually, to be honest.。
But anyway.。
I'm going to get too much.。
Come on.。
All right.。
So you've gone from being a student to a young professional now in Hong Kong.。
So in your journey through your life here for the past few years, first question to。
you is this.。
What are some of the biggest barriers or the biggest challenges that you felt that you've。
had to face when it comes to building genuine relationships that could be in the church。
or also outside of the church as well?。
Yeah.。
Genuine relationships.。
I think it, like you mentioned about how like judging is a struggle for you.。
Right.。
And it's similar for me as well, where I feel like my instinct when I first meet a person。
is to judge.。
Right.。
And it's not just me judging, but I also fear judgment from them.。
So it's like this performance that we have where we're only ever scratching the surface.。
So you never really go in depth into that relationship.。
Right.。
But I feel like recently something that God's really been, I guess, teaching me is about。
tying back to what Philippians says about viewing them higher than yourselves.。
Right.。
So I'm saying that, you know, like every time you meet a new person, you know, you start。
airing your dirty laundry, you know, you say that, you know, like I wet my bed when I was。
11.。
You know, I'm not talking about anything, anyone specific.。
Something to note.。
I told you that in confidence.。
But yeah, like viewing others higher than yourself.。
So you're going into each conversation with the mindset that, oh yeah, like God can really。
speak to you through this person.。
And it's changed the way that I have conversations with these people.。
So for example, like Ellison mentioned, I serve at K4C and specifically for like the。
10 to 12 year age range.。
I'm sure a lot of your kids are there right now.。
The questions that these kids ask, insane, insane questions.。
They're asking like theological questions that I haven't ever thought about.。
So now I have to go back, research on these topics so that I can educate myself so that。
I can educate these kids.。
Right.。
So it's crazy like the type of questions that these kids ask.。
Kids, kids are asking this.。
Right.。
And even I guess more something more close to heart is like there's a friend that I met。
here at the Vine.。
Someone that I didn't think would be my friend.。
Not because like we're drastically different in terms of personality, but I guess more。
so he didn't fit the mold of what I had of a friend.。
Right.。
Like the friends that I've had before, he didn't fit that mold.。
But I've gotten to know him more and more throughout the few years over here and more。
and more and more and more.。
And the relationship that I've had with him has been so edifying.。
God has taught me so many things through him.。
And I can confidently say that like I love him with all my heart.。
So it's really about like humbling yourself and recognizing that God can use anyone to。
speak to you.。
Yeah.。
That's really good.。
Right.。
Yeah.。
Realizing who those people are and getting to know them as time goes by.。
Yeah.。
Yeah.。
That's really cool.。
And I think Hong Kong is a bit of a tricky city to navigate in terms of your faith and。
building relationships as well.。
And I'm sure in the time at university and now, right, there's been opportunities that。
have come up that you feel like, "Oh, actually, this isn't quite compatible with my faith."。
And so when you feel pressure to compromise your values to maintain relationships, perhaps,。
you know, how do you navigate that?。
And you can be as vulnerable as you want to be right now.。
But, you know, have you ever come across those opportunities where you feel like, "Yeah,。
I felt like, you know, maybe that wasn't the best choice or maybe I had to take a stand。
and it cost me, you know, a relationship or something like that?"。
Yeah.。
I mean, that's so real, right?。
Like I'm sure everyone's been in that position.。
And like realistically, we're going to spend the most or like the majority of our time。
with non-believers, right?。
Like unless you're working in ministry, but actually even if you're working in ministry,。
you're exposed to a lot of non-believers.。
You're exposed to people of different cultural backgrounds, different beliefs, different。
faiths.。
So that's where you spend the majority of your time.。
And there's this temptation, like I know I've had so many times where, you know, I've wanted。
to compromise my values, where I've been tempted to do or like fit in with the culture.。
And I've fallen so many times as well.。
But I think, again, something I was having this conversation with someone yesterday and。
we were discussing this and thinking about, okay, how can we go about, I guess, tackling。
this, right?。
And we realized the first thing that we need to have is our identity in Christ needs to。
be strong, right?。
Like we need to have our identity in Christ rooted, right?。
So and, you know, how do you have that identity in Christ, right?。
You need to go back to scripture.。
You learn from scripture that like you are sons and daughters of God.。
Like so crazy to imagine, like God considers, the creator of the universe considers us sons。
and daughters, right?。
He calls us warriors.。
He calls us heirs to his kingdom, right?。
So how crazy is that to imagine?。
And so when you're in that position again, where, you know, you can falter, you kind。
of have to think, okay, who is it that you want to please?。
Do you want to please these people or do you want to please Jesus, right?。
And then slowly, slowly and slowly, you start seeing that people start reacting in a different。
way.。
People actually, they, like they don't, I can get that it's sometimes really hard.。
And initially there might be a lot of pushback, but you start seeing that people respect you。
for standing your ground at some point, for sticking by your values.。
And then you start seeing, because you've flown your flag early, you know, your Christian。
flag early, like what Pastor John was saying a few weeks back, they start tying your actions。
now to that.。
So they recognize that, okay, the reason why you're doing this is because, okay, it must。
be because he's Christian, right?。
So then they start becoming more curious and more curious.。
And then they're asking, Hey, Aaron, like we actually want to check out your church.。
And now, you know, I have a few colleagues of mine that are probably going to come to。
church like next week or in two weeks time.。
Good they didn't come today then.。
Yeah.。
Yeah.。
And yeah, thank you.。
But I guess at like the foundation of it is we were doing a series on sojourners a few。
weeks back at 180.。
And that's the idea that we're only temporary residents here on earth.。
That we only have 70 to 80 years of life, you know, maybe 90 if you're a Hong Konger.。
Like we, that's the limited amount of time that we're living here, right?。
But when you start viewing life in light of eternity, you realize that, okay, there's。
someone more important that you should be pleasing, right?。
Someone a lot more important who you're going to spend eternity with in heaven that you。
should be focused on.。
Yeah.。
So I guess that's the...。
That's really good.。
That there's power in the witness, right?。
I think I, for me, I always find it interesting to ask people that question because I was。
working in ministry, you know, with some of my colleagues, you know, it's very open, easy。
conversation.。
You know, often around lunch we talk about different theological topics and things like。
that.。
And so I felt like I really have to go out of my way to connect with non-Christians,。
right?。
And one of the ways I've done that, this is not to...。
I've recently, I've been doing jujitsu for the past year or so.。
Really?。
Yeah, yeah, really, yeah.。
You want to go right now?。
Okay.。
Okay, so, but you know, and it's a very non-Christian environment, right?。
And when people find out I was a pastor, at first they were like, kind of not making fun,。
but you know how guys, and you know, some girls there too, but mostly, you know, rolling。
with the guys.。
And whenever they get me in a weird position, like they're about to kill me, like choking。
me, I was like, "Hey, pastor, why don't you just pray, you know?。
Maybe the Holy Spirit will help you get out of this choke," you know?。
I was like, "Ah, okay."。
But I found also, you know, as we've had those conversations, like just a couple of weeks。
ago at the gym, you know, one of the guys there was sharing with me, "You know, I don't。
think Jesus likes me very much."。
I was like, "Oh, wow."。
Like it literally came out of nowhere.。
He's like, "Why do you think that?"。
He's like, "Well, you know," he started sharing about some of the struggles he's had.。
And it was just an initial conversation, right?。
But when you are consistent with that witness, right, people really do notice.。
It's not just...。
Yeah, 100%.。
So, last thing, Aaron.。
What is one piece of advice that you would give to people as they navigate relationships。
in light of what we've been talking about today?。
Yeah.。
It's hard because there's so many things that you can share.。
But I guess like something that God's put in my heart is involving Him in every single。
one of your relationships.。
Now it sounds simple enough.。
Sounds easy to do.。
But as young professionals or as just like Hong Kongers or people who live in Hong Kong,。
like the thing that we are in scarcity of is energy and time, right?。
So there's...。
Because there's so many things that are on your mind, you forget that there is a God。
who wants to be involved in your relationships.。
Like can you really think...。
Like when we're singing that song, "There is no one like the Lord," is it really true。
that there is no one like the Lord?。
Like when...。
Because if there is, then He's the first person that you would want to go to, right?。
To vent, to talk about everything that's happening in your life.。
So what does it look like, like realistically, practically?。
Like in your friendships, you pray for them.。
And I'm gonna spam the word prayer a lot because it's so underrated.。
You pray for them and you let the spirit convict you and convict you...。
Because when you make mistakes, you can put your ego aside and apologize to them.。
Or when you recognize that they're making a mistake, you're able to rebuke them with。
love.。
Or in the case of work relationships, you go to that colleague who is...。
You clearly see is stressed out, right?。
You go to them, you ask them, "Hey, do you wanna have a chat?。
Like I'd love to have a conversation with you."。
And then you see the things changing or the things happening.。
I had a situation recently where this one colleague of mine, he loves complaining about。
work.。
He hates the job.。
Actually, I really am glad that he's not here.。
They love complaining about the job and really hates it.。
And to an extent, it does bring the morale down.。
And I've tried having a conversation with him, but nothing seemed to work.。
So as a last resort, I prayed.。
Although it should have been my first resort.。
So I prayed and I prayed that night for him.。
And then the next day, I come into work and then he comes in and I see the biggest smile。
on his face.。
Like the guy who's been sad for the past three months, he has the biggest smile on his face.。
He's like shooting air guns at me, like, "What's up, Aaron?"。
And it's crazy.。
Those are the moments where you realize, "Wait, God is real."。
God changed that.。
I don't know what happened in the span of one night, but something clearly happened.。
He worked in him.。
So yeah, he works in work relationships as well.。
And I guess the most juicy is about dating.。
And guys, miracles are real.。
Like if this happened, if Ellison was able to get into a relationship and has like two。
wonderful kids.。
Only Jesus.。
Yeah.。
Only Jesus.。
That was a good one.。
Okay.。
No, I'm just kidding.。
I hate to be a gentleman.。
But God wants you to involve him in every single one of those relationships, right?。
Even in dating, where like you do your research.。
Okay, not research, that's a bad word.。
You talk to people about it, right?。
Allow God to speak through them.。
And I guess like give yourself grace when you make mistakes.。
And because God will refine you through those mistakes as well.。
The Lord knows I've made my fair share.。
So you allow yourself grace to make mistakes.。
And when he refines you, you glorify him.。
And even when you don't make mistakes, like and you do the right thing, you glorify him.。
Right?。
Yeah, I guess that's my piece of advice.。
Thank you, Aaron.。
Yeah.。
So Trish, I wonder if you would join me in standing as we respond and close our service.。
Yeah, something Aaron was sharing about embracing our identity as children of God.。
You know, that's such a foundation that we call to stand on.。
And so I'm going to pray for us, church, as we begin to leave the service this afternoon。
or this morning.。
And so Jesus, I thank you, Lord.。
Thank you for the relationships that we have.。
And Father, as difficult as it is, as much of a struggle it is, Lord, I pray that you。
would teach us how to approach each and every one of these, no matter what context is in,。
Lord, with the same love that you've given to us.。
That we know who we are in you, that we are confident of our identity as sons and daughters,。
as beloved children of God.。
And that out of that place, Lord, we can reach out, we can love, we cling on to you.。
And as we do that, Lord, people would see you, your love at work in our lives.。
So we thank you for this.。
We pray that you would continue to grow us towards you and draw us nearer towards each。
other in this way.。
