>> The Lord as he preaches here today,。
we just pray that your spirit would just meet him,。
just help him to feel at home here and speak to him.。
And we pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says.。
>> Amen. >> Amen.。
>> Thank you, Andrew.。
Good morning, how's everyone doing?。
Upper house, you all right?。
All right.。
Hey, so if you are just joining us,。
we are in a season of Uncharted.。
Not meaning that we don't know what we're doing,。
but in a way, not knowing what God is gonna do in our midst.。
And we are also in a series of about the Holy Spirit.。
And if you've kind of missed the last few weeks,。
let me bring you up to speed quickly.。
In the last few weeks,。
we've learned that the Holy Spirit is a person,。
not a force that we just call upon anytime we want.。
But the Holy Spirit dwells within each of us。
to restore and to reorder, to heal and also to comfort us,。
and also to teach and illuminate the truth of who God is,。
so that in our most trivial, difficult times,。
we can come to experience Him.。
And so for all of us who yearn。
for the work of the Spirit in our life,。
it requires a willingness and a surrenderedness。
to want to actually hear what God wants to say.。
Today, we continue to focus on the Holy Spirit,。
but more so on the importance of the Spirit's work。
in both our personal faith,。
but also our communal faith as the Vine Church.。
Looking back on my faith journey,。
which I had some time to do this week,。
as a new Christian when I was 16,。
I remember how much I needed the Spirit of God。
to lead me, to guide me, to teach me。
in how to be a good person, a better person,。
but also to teach me in the Word.。
And when I think back to God's constant presence in my life,。
I could also think about the people who walked with me,。
the community that was with me.。
I want to show you a photo here.。
You're not gonna recognize me,。
but this was me when I was 16.。
This was the day of my baptism,。
and these boys, we called ourselves the Joy Luck Boys.。
Don't ask, I'll, I won't explain it here.。
But these boys taught me everything I know,。
the foundation they gave me。
of what it means to be a good friend,。
what it means to fellowship,。
what it means to be in the Word.。
And I think one of the most special things。
that we have back then is we had so much time.。
We would spend three, four hours in the Word every week。
together as 16-year-olds,。
which I don't know if that's common,。
but it was just life-changing.。
And so to this day, I keep in touch with these boys.。
Recently, I met up with a few of them。
who came through Hong Kong.。
And as I grew a few more years older in my 20s,。
here at the Vine, in the young adults community,。
I recall that most of my growth came primarily。
from encountering God's holy presence。
with a lot of you here in this room, actually.。
Every week, the intimate but yet public manifestation。
of God's Spirit brought us to our knees.。
We were just crying out for God.。
We wanted more because we were so profoundly changed.。
I'm gonna show you two photos.。
Don't judge me.。
This was pre-iPhone.。
This was when we had digital cameras.。
Doesn't matter whether these photos are great or not,。
but they represent a desperation.。
They represented the hunger and the thirst that we had。
actually, I was so scared of coming to church。
every single week, including a Sunday,。
'cause I was scared God would say something.。
And every week, he wrecked us.。
But at the same time, we couldn't imagine life。
without God showing up.。
And so when we think back, maybe it was that simple.。
It was just really being in God's presence with one another.。
And so in more recent years, this was actually quite recent.。
This was at our last prayer meeting,。
which we're also having on June 3rd.。
I've come to recognize that if we want to mature,。
then we have to have a balance of personal time with God,。
the times that we reflect and seek God and be in his word.。
But at the same time, I desire so much more these days。
to also just to serve with you, to worship with you,。
to seek God together.。
And what changes us, I think, is God's presence amongst us.。
And we can testify to this, yes?。
The reason why I think we need to do this。
is so that we don't become isolated,。
so that we can continue to be outward-looking.。
And this is the life that scripture actually calls us to.。
This is our normal.。
This should be the normal in which we try to live in.。
And I cannot imagine life without you guys.。
I cannot imagine being at another church,。
worshiping and doing the things that we get to do.。
And so I can comprehend now that our spiritual reality,。
our starting point, is that as Christians,。
we have to recognize that the spirit of God。
works in both contexts of our spiritual,。
our personal faith, but also our times together.。
Meaning that God is able and can and does speak to us。
passionately, longingly, faithfully,。
as much on a Monday as it is on a Sunday.。
Even though this is ideal, this is what we want,。
this doesn't always happen.。
What gets in the way?。
Can you guess what gets in the way, guys?。
Well, life, but also us.。
We get in the way.。
As Christians, we have this very human tendency。
to emphasize one expense at the expense of the other.。
So if left to our own choosing,。
if left to our own preferences,。
what happens is that sometimes,。
because we have such a passion for the work。
of the Holy Spirit in our own lives,。
sometimes when we come here to worship together,。
we're not as bothered.。
We're not as focused or leaning into this.。
But equally, at times, we can so focus,。
we can so focus on encountering God here。
that from Monday to Saturday, we're just like, eh,。
you know, I'm just gonna come back on a Sunday.。
So I wonder, and I wanna wonder with you guys today,。
why do we expect the spirit to come。
in one of these situations and not always both?。
Or put another way, why do some of us。
only experience God in one context and not the other?。
Are you tracking with me?。
So in preparing today, I had a sense that though,。
yes, there is a discrepancy。
between our actual lived realities many times,。
but what I want to bring for us today。
is to think about how our expectations。
and our preferences of the Holy Spirit。
can actually limit His work in our private life,。
but also when we gather like this.。
So I wanna ask you, when you open up God's word today,。
when you open up God's word at home,。
which I know you guys do,。
do you carry the same anticipation,。
the same expectation that you have on a Sunday。
that the Spirit of God will surely show up。
and move and change you?。
Likewise, when we gather like this,。
like on a Sunday in our community groups。
throughout the week, do you believe。
that God can speak personally to you。
as He does when you are spending time one-on-one with Him?。
The central question that I think a lot of us ask。
that I want to explore with us today。
is why can't I sense or know God's presence。
at home or at work like I do at the Vine?。
Is it possible to experience the Spirit。
in both our private and our communal life?。
Today, I want to explore this tension,。
this question through a passage in 1 Peter.。
I'm gonna offer you three points of consideration.。
I'm gonna list out three factors。
that limit and stifle and hinders。
the Spirit's work in our lives together and alone.。
These factors have everything to do with how we relate。
and how we understand the Father, the Son,。
and especially the Spirit.。
So I'm gonna read, and you can,。
please, I ask you to read with me.。
I'll be reading from the NSRV.。
1 Peter 4:7-11 says,。
"The end of all things is near.。
"Therefore be serious and discipline yourselves。
"for the sake of your prayers.。
"Above all, maintain constant love for one another,。
"for love covers a multitude of sins.。
"Be hospitable to one another without complaining.。
"Like good stewards of the manifold grace of God,。
"serve one another with whatever gift。
"each of you have received.。
"Whoever speaks must do so。
"once speaking the very words of God.。
"Whoever serves must do so。
"with the strength that God supplies。
"so that God may be glorified。
"in all things through Jesus Christ.。
"To Him belong the glory and the power。
"forever and ever, amen."。
At first glance, this passage, you're thinking,。
what does this have to do with it?。
But I ask you just to trek with me, okay?。
Peter here paints a very broad picture。
of life in the early church.。
Peter was encouraging the church。
to remain steadfast in their love for one another,。
to keep praying, to be vigilant amidst persecution.。
And they had a shared urgency at the church,。
in the church that Jesus would return soon.。
So there was that much more need。
to continue to host each other, continue to love and pray.。
We're gonna pick up at verse nine.。
And as we go through this passage,。
I want you to once again think about,。
is it possible for you and I to experience the spirit。
in both our life and our times here together?。
Verse nine says, "Be hospitable to one another。
"without complaining."。
Peter suggests that one of the ways。
that Christians can demonstrate their love。
in a tangible way is to practice hospitality。
without complaining.。
For Peter and the early church, as well as for Jesus,。
hospitality was a tremendous privilege。
to express welcome to the stranger, to the believer,。
not just through food or lodging, but as an embrace,。
as an all out embrace of your inner person。
for the other person who is coming into your home.。
And so in the ancient world,。
this was a cultural expectation。
and also obligation to offer hospitality.。
Scriptures like Acts 14, Hebrews 13 say。
that some have entertained angels。
while having a stranger in their house.。
Likewise in Matthew 25, Jesus says that by extending。
kindness to a stranger, to extend kindness。
to the least of these, as in someone who has a need,。
is like that it's equaled and akin to welcoming。
the Lord himself, which is quite an incredible thought。
to begin with.。
And Jesus says that no matter how slight,。
how small your act of kindness is,。
it will not go unrewarded.。
So how is this relevant?。
Let me tell you, while hospitality is an essential practice,。
it's an obligation, it's a privilege,。
it is difficult because hospitality requires us。
to inconvenience ourselves, right?。
It requires extra effort to welcome someone into your home,。
especially unexpectedly.。
But church, what if the person we are hosting every day,。
every week is the Holy Spirit himself?。
Would we not make that extra effort?。
Would we not be too bothered about being inconvenienced。
with our scheduling and what we have to do?。
And so church, I want to just bluntly。
and just openly put it before you,。
that if we want to experience the Spirit。
in both our private life and our communal life,。
then the concept of hospitality here。
is to hold an intentional awareness。
that every time we meet like this,。
every time I come to God's word, we are welcoming,。
we are hosting the Holy Spirit.。
Not just in our time together, but in our thought life,。
in the way we think about others, we are saying,。
"Lord, help me to think through my day.。
Help me to think through these relationships。
because I want to serve you in it."。
And so it doesn't matter suddenly where we are physically,。
because if the Holy Spirit is with us, wherever we go,。
we can host him and welcome him anywhere.。
And so what I want to suggest is maybe every time we,。
before we come here, before we pray at home,。
before meal times, we can pray something like this.。
We can say, "Holy Spirit, you are welcome here.。
You're welcome in this place.。
And we ask you to stay with us。
because we want to serve you.。
We've been waiting for you.。
We want to just sit down with you。
and hear everything you have to say to us."。
It's maybe as simple as that.。
But if this is our collective prayer,。
what if this was our collective prayer,。
then would we not be able to experience。
the Holy Spirit a little more?。
I want to now continue in verse 10 and 11.。
Peter says, "Like good stewards of the manifold grace of God。
serve one another with whatever gift。
each of you has received."。
We'll come back to that.。
"Whoever speaks must do so。
as one speaking the very words of God.。
Whoever serves must do so with the strength。
that God supplies so that God may be glorified。
in all things through Jesus Christ."。
Peter reminds us that if you and I are serious。
about following him,。
then we have to find our place in the body of Christ.。
We have to come to recognize what gift。
the Holy Spirit has given each of us。
so that we can build up the church,。
so that we can serve one another.。
Peter here says, "Whether you're alone。
or whether you're together,。
I want you to be diligent and faithful stewards。
of whatever God has gifting you with,。
whatever resource he has given you,。
the time that you have available."。
Peter's saying, "By God's grace。
and the strength he has given you,。
use this gift to build and encourage one another。
because our time here is limited."。
And so when Peter calls us to be good stewards,。
he means that what we've been given,。
which is not ours to begin with, use it generously.。
Use it not for selfish gain,。
but think about the other person.。
Because our starting point, as Peter here says,。
is all of us have received the manifold grace of God.。
And as in all of us have been transformed by God's grace.。
And as a way of saying, "Thank you, Lord,"。
as a way of our rightful worship,。
our reasonable worship, as it says in Romans 12,。
we have to discern and figure out our place in this body,。
in this family, in this home,。
so that we can be outward looking,。
so that we can bless others,。
so that God's spirit can work through us.。
And so let me talk a bit about these gifts。
and give us a context.。
The scripture is not here,。
but you can write down 1 Corinthians 12,。
verse four to seven.。
The apostle Paul teaches us that the Holy Spirit。
gives different spiritual gifts to each of us,。
to every one of us,。
so that we can contribute and fulfill。
and find our place here.。
And so I would like to remind us,。
'cause sometimes I forget,。
that the health of this church。
does not rest on Andrew's shoulders.。
It does not rest on the pastors alone.。
It does not fall to our community leaders,。
our volunteers, our worship team,。
even our production team,。
but it's all of us need to figure out our place,。
so that the Vine Church and whatever church。
that you are a part of can be healthy and thriving.。
And so I wanna talk about these gifts.。
Once again, I don't have time to quote every scripture,。
but in the New Testament,。
the spirit gives us, the believers,。
the ability to teach, to minister, as in to serve,。
to evangelize, to tell people about Jesus,。
to pastor, to offer leadership,。
to encourage, to prophesy.。
Prophesy, we talked about this last week.。
It's not future telling.。
It's calling and helping us realize the reality,。
our spiritual reality,。
the truth of who God is already revealed.。
And he's called some of us to admonish.。
He's called some of us to correct the church。
in grace and truth, but in love and gentleness.。
Some are called to serve, to express hospitality,。
to show mercy and generosity.。
Church, if we desire to experience the spirit in our life。
and as well as in our gathering,。
then we have to be aware of the reality。
that we're given gifts, not for our own self,。
but for the sake of others.。
And as we serve, as we give,。
God shows up in unexpected and beautiful。
and life-changing ways.。
So where do we start?。
Well, let me start personally.。
Personally, I would love for you to go home。
and to look up every spiritual gift。
and ask the spirit of God to show you what he's given you,。
if you don't know already,。
and ask him for the opportunities to work it out.。
When you're at work, when you're at home with your family。
and you know how that dinner is gonna be,。
pray, "Lord, I wanna use my gift today.。
"I wanna bless my family, my colleagues."。
Communally, I think we have already started to do this.。
And it's just simple as once you know your gift, use it.。
And so I wanna give you some examples.。
We can definitely attend to the needs of the other person,。
which is a lot.。
All of us have needs.。
We can take someone out for coffee and pray with them.。
We can teach others how to love God, as my boys taught me,。
how to resist temptation, how to battle.。
I mean, I can list it, but I won't.。
We can show hospitality to those who can never pay us back.。
We can be a listening ear.。
We can write a letter of encouragement and comfort。
to those who are imprisoned, who are suffering.。
We can sit with those who are grieving loss.。
We can extend the same mercy that we've received from God。
by forgiving those who've hurt us.。
And so if you are tracking with me right now,。
if we are serious about walking this out。
and learning how to walk this out,。
then I wanna remind us of something,。
that our Christian faith is not meant to be a depository。
of God's grace, but rather we as the church。
are called to be channels in which God's grace,。
He blesses us, He changes us.。
It's supposed to flow through us.。
And I want us to really think about this today,。
because it's so easy, and I'm many times。
in this boat as well, that it's really easy。
to come to church or come to a small group,。
to come somewhere with the focus。
of just receiving for ourselves.。
And that is okay for a season.。
That is okay generally, but if it becomes an ingrained habit。
and that's the only way we're thinking,。
then I will say that bluntly, yes, we will limit,。
we will stifle the work of the spirit whenever we meet.。
And so the ultimate goal here for us。
when we're with God alone, when we come together like this,。
is say, Lord, I don't want to be a terminal。
in which your grace just stops with me.。
I want to figure out when I leave this place,。
when we part ways, Lord, would you continue。
to channel what I have received,。
and I want to share it with people.。
I want to pray it over people.。
I want to talk about it so that I don't forget。
what God is doing in our life.。
And so last week, I think, was a beautiful example of this.。
Actually, Pastor Andrew and Carla,。
they asked the staff to have words ready。
a few days before Sunday, so that when we come,。
we could share our words in faith。
that it's gonna speak to some of us.。
And I think it did speak to us,。
and as a result, Pastor Andrew called us。
to pray for each other, to bless each other,。
so that we can be channels.。
And this, I pray for more opportunities。
where we get to experience this and witness this,。
because this, honestly, church,。
is the normal Christian life.。
There is no other way.。
I had many seasons in my life where I was just,。
I mean, Patsy can attest to this,。
I would just go into my room, into my closet, lock myself,。
and I would not come out for hours,。
which is great, is a great practice,。
but I need to balance that out。
with sharing what God spoke to me。
in the closet for six hours, right?。
I know, it's easy to forget.。
It's easy to forget our role,。
the gift that we've been given,。
and that we are actually channels.。
So up 'til now, I'm doing pretty well.。
I have mentioned two factors that can limit。
and stifle our ability to experience the Spirit.。
One is our awareness.。
Are we willing to host the Spirit in our life,。
wherever we are?。
And two, are we willing to be channels。
in which God bestows and blesses through us and the church?。
The third factor that I want to raise up。
is something that has more to do with us individually,。
and how we ourselves can limit。
the work of the Spirit in our life.。
In 1 Thessalonians 5:19,。
Scripture warns us, "Do not quench the Holy Spirit."。
And so Paul is saying that whenever you meet,。
whenever you're gathering,。
I want you to be mindful of this,。
that you do not quench the Holy Spirit.。
And to be honest, I've always, up until last week,。
be very apprehensive about this verse.。
I was very intimidated.。
I don't actually want to find out the true context.。
But today, I want to share that,。
'cause it's quite mind-blowing.。
And so to quench the Spirit really is to limit Him.。
It's to prohibit Him from working in our life.。
It's to basically not give Him permission.。
Because as we've been talking about,。
if the Holy Spirit is a person,。
if Holy Spirit has feelings and has character,。
and He can be blessed and He can feel loved,。
then equally, the opposite can be true,。
that the Holy Spirit, because He has His own personality,。
He can be limited.。
He can be told to stay away.。
He can be grieved.。
So what quenches the Spirit for starters?。
Our sin, our selfishness, our inability,。
our unwillingness to listen sometimes intentionally,。
our lack of expectations when we show up.。
You know, sometimes we just ignore Him.。
One of the most hurtful things that I find。
is I go to a group, we're hanging out,。
everyone's on their phone, I'm trying to talk,。
and everyone's just ignoring me.。
And sometimes, many times,。
I think we do that to the Spirit.。
We do that to one another.。
Our idolatry, sometimes we make up these man-made rules。
to govern people when Jesus has given us everything。
in the Gospels in which we are to treat one another,。
to forgive and to bless and to uphold.。
And when we're together, what really grieves the Spirit,。
I think, is the way we talk about each other,。
the way we gossip, the way we slander, using our words.。
We sometimes, even it's not without our words,。
just in our coldness of not saying anything,。
the coldness that we express to one another,。
our contemptuous words, our unsympathetic criticism,。
and our blatant hypocrisy.。
I was reading in Scripture yesterday,。
hypocrisy, another way of thinking it,。
is flattering lips and also double-heartedness.。
You know, with one heart, I speak to you guys,。
but with another heart, I speak to you like this,。
and that is hypocritical.。
And I could go on, but I won't.。
And so I wanna say that, church,。
if we knowingly, right now, practice。
and know that we are doing these things to one another,。
we are okay with this, with God,。
then definitely we will stifle, we will limit His work.。
It's not that Holy Spirit cannot work through us,。
it's just there's no room.。
We're not giving Him room, we're not allowing Him,。
because these things hold us back。
from realizing that we need to address these things.。
So I'm gonna come back to our bigger picture。
and what I started with today.。
The question that I think some of us have is,。
can I sense God's presence at home as I do at the Vine?。
Can I also encounter the Holy Spirit like I do on a Sunday,。
wherever I go?。
If I'm gonna go away this week,。
if I'm gonna do something, will the Holy Spirit be with me?。
So is it possible to experience the Spirit。
in both our private life, but also our communal life?。
The short answer is yes.。
It is very possible to experience the Spirit。
in both these contexts if we grow in our relational awareness。
to what the Father and the Son and the Spirit。
is doing at all times.。
And then maybe it just does begin。
with such a simple proclamation and a prayer to say,。
Holy Spirit, you are welcome here.。
Holy Spirit, you are welcome here.。
No matter what we've gone through,。
Lord, you are welcome here.。
Please just stay with us.。
And I hope in the days ahead that we'll remind ourselves。
of today's message.。
Because if we do not remind ourselves,。
if we ignore everything I've said, which I'm okay with,。
God will only seem that he is in one place at a time.。
And that is a tragedy.。
And so I just wanna summarize,。
and I wanna list out our points today,。
the things that I've brought up。
in a question form for you guys.。
The first question is, will you host and welcome the Spirit。
in your own life, but also when you gather together?。
Two, will you be channels to the Spirit's work。
rather than depositories?。
Will you allow God as you use the gifts to serve。
and to give trust in faith。
that God is using you in that moment?。
Many times we don't think God is using us,。
therefore we just don't even try, we just step back,。
oh, someone else would do it.。
But that's why so many of us burn out every year。
because it's only a few of us doing what a lot of us,。
all of us should be doing.。
You know, one day I really wanna experience that,。
all of us serving, all of us giving at the same time.。
It might be chaotic,。
but I think it'll be beautiful in a real way.。
So let's write that down as a life goal.。
Third thing is, will we quench the Spirit?。
The answer is yes, but what do we do about that?。
I want you to be aware.。
And so church, can I ask you to stand?。
I want to pray for us today, but before I do,。
I want you just maybe just to close your eyes。
or do whatever it is that helps you focus.。
And I'm just gonna speak to different groups right now。
before I pray.。
If you are the ones where you desire the Spirit。
to work in your personal life,。
then I want you to put up your hands and your heart.。
I want you just to say to the Lord, yeah, that's me.。
If you are also the ones that say, you know,。
I experienced you a lot in my personal life,。
but Lord, every time I come here, I'm so distracted.。
I just have all of these thoughts.。
Would you help me to connect with the wider church?。
Would you help me connect to what you're doing in our midst?。
If that is you, I also want you to open up your hands.。
If you are standing here today and sitting here today。
and you realize that, oh my gosh, God has given me gifts,。
I am now aware that I have a part in this house.。
Whether you're here for two weeks, a month,。
you've been here for years,。
you have a place here to serve, to give,。
because you are a channel in which the Holy Spirit moves.。
So if that is you and you realize this,。
or you say, you know, Justin, I want to use my gifts more,。
then I want you to also open up your hands.。
And lastly, I want to speak to those who you feel like。
you are right now grieving the Spirit.。
You are limited and you are limiting His work。
right now in your life because of something you have done,。
something that you are wrestling with.。
Then I want to say to you,。
as the Holy Spirit would say to all of us,。
with compassion, with gentleness,。
with a longing that we grow in time with Him,。
not a condemnation,。
that the Spirit would want to reveal to you。
what is exactly holding you back from experiencing。
the Holy Spirit in your personal life,。
but also in our gathered community times together.。
If that is the case,。
God would want us to just pray what David prayed。
in Psalm 139.。
And let's pray this together.。
Father, you've spoken today.。
So we ask you to search our hearts, O Lord.。
And because you know our hearts,。
would you try us and would you reveal our thoughts,。
the things that lurk beneath the surface,。
the things that we don't even understand and know.。
And if there is any way that limits your work。
in our life, Father,。
would you lead us away from that way of thinking?。
Would you lead us away from that way of life。
so that we may be more aware that you are working,。
you are speaking right now to us, living God.。
And so Lord, together, we, as our brothers and sisters,。
our response today in one voice, with one heart, Lord,。
we want to say, we want to be channels。
of your grace and your mercy.。
We pray that as we surrender you,。
your grace would continue to flow through us。
and you would never stop doing this in our lifetime.。
And so forgive us, help us to be more aware,。
help us to flee from the temptation。
to be depositories rather than channels.。
And so Holy Spirit, we give you permission now。
to do what you desire to do,。
what you've always longed to do,。
and we give you permission and space.。
And so Father, help us to live this life together.。
In your name we pray, amen.。
Let us worship him together.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
