When I was a teenager, I used to skate.。
So, I was skateboarding.。
Now, that didn't last that long, because I kept falling,。
especially when I started trying to do, like, half pipes,。
quarter pipes, that sort of thing,。
and I ended up having a blue spot that was like,。
you know, like a little half a pizza on my side,。
and I decided, maybe this is not what I'm meant to do.。
But while I was still into street skating and all of that,。
I needed to buy a part for my skateboard.。
So, I went to the skate shop.。
They had the part that I needed.。
I went to pay with my 10 German marks.。
So, this also shows that this was a long time ago,。
and the cashier gave me a change for 100 German marks.。
Now, let me put this in Hong Kong equivalents.。
So, I gave 100 Hong Kong dollars。
and was expecting about 50 Hong Kong dollars back,。
and the cashier thought that I gave him 1,000 Hong Kong dollars。
and gave me 950 Hong Kong dollars back.。
So, I took the money.。
I was like, "This is amazing.。
The Lord works in mysterious ways.。
Praise God."。
You don't believe me, right?。
Or maybe. No.。
That's not what I did, but I was tempted to do it.。
I wanted to keep the money.。
So, this was that much money at that time.。
So, you can imagine, actually, by now,。
it probably doubled the amount of that money。
in terms of what you can purchase with that.。
And so, we all, you know, at one point or another,。
in different ways, for me as a teenager,。
it was a temptation to keep it and keep my mouth shut。
and take the money, but we all face temptations.。
And they're different for different people.。
It's easy to look at somebody else and say,。
"Oh, you're tempted with the money."。
Then, "Oh," you know, like, that's --。
Why would you be tempted with that?。
That doesn't impact me whatsoever.。
But we all have areas where we actually do struggle。
with our sinful nature, where we want to do things。
that we know are not right.。
We know they're not good,。
but we find ourselves sometimes doing them anyhow.。
And so, for some of us, maybe that has to do with money.。
Maybe it has to do with business,。
getting ahead in your business,。
cutting corners, not paying taxes.。
For others, maybe it has to do with relationships.。
Maybe we have an affair.。
Maybe we have an emotional affair,。
where we have emotional intimacy。
with somebody other than our spouse.。
So this is something that happens quite often.。
Of course, that, then, a lot of times,。
does lead to a full-fledged affair, as well.。
For others, it might be maybe there's drinking.。
Maybe we drink alcohol,。
and then we're tempted to just drink more.。
Maybe it's pornography.。
Maybe it is gambling.。
You know, so we all have different things.。
You can fill in the blank.。
I think we know the type of things。
where we feel that temptation.。
And this is also true for us as Christians.。
We also still face these temptations.。
We also sometimes have these strong urges and feelings。
coming upon ourselves,。
where we want to do the things。
that we know are not right,。
that we know are not good,。
that are destructive, a lot of times, to ourselves。
and to those whom we love.。
So what I want to do with you today through this message,。
I want to explore with you a question.。
And the question is this.。
How can we be led by the Spirit。
and live lives that honor God?。
You know, how can we rely on the Holy Spirit's power。
to strengthen us, to overcome our sinful desires,。
and not give in to them?。
You know, how do you do that?。
What does that look like?。
So that's what we're going to explore.。
We are continuing in our sermon series。
through the Book of Galatians.。
Let me set the context for a passage.。
So Paul, he has been proclaiming the gospel.。
And there's been a group of agitators,。
or we've called them rival missionaries,。
who came in after him。
and who challenged the gospel that he preached.。
Now, one of the things that they challenged about the gospel。
is that they said it doesn't lead to holy living.。
It doesn't lead to true righteousness.。
How can a gospel where we're forgiven by grace,。
you know, through faith, end up leading to a holy life?。
Doesn't that just give permission to sin?。
Because we know God's going to show us grace。
and forgiveness anyhow.。
So they're attacking his gospel。
and the ethics of that gospel.。
You know, what does that lead to?。
And that's why they're emphasizing the observing。
of the Mosaic Law and all the rules and do's and don'ts。
and trying to earn and be righteous through that.。
But here in our passage today, as we're going to see,。
Paul shows us that it is the Spirit of God within us。
who brings about the true righteous life。
and true holiness。
and who turns us and transforms us into people。
who can say no to our sinful nature, to our temptations,。
and be people who reflect his character.。
So let me turn with you to Galatians 5,。
and starting in verse 16, it says this.。
"So I say, live by the Spirit,。
and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh.。
For the flesh desires what is contrary to the Spirit,。
and the Spirit what is contrary to the flesh.。
They are in conflict with each other。
so that you are not to do whatever you want.。
But if you are led by the Spirit,。
you are not under the law.。
The acts of the flesh are obvious.。
Sexual immorality, impurity, debauchery,。
idolatry and witchcraft, hatred, discord, jealousy,。
fits of rage, selfish ambition, dissension, factions,。
and envy, drunkenness, orgies, and the like.。
I warn you, as I did before,。
that those who live like this will not inherit the kingdom of God.。
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, forbearance"。
also translated as patience,。
"kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control。
against such thing there is no law.。
Those who belong to Christ Jesus。
have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.。
Since we live by the Spirit, let us keep in step with the Spirit.。
Let us not become conceited, provoking and envying each other."。
So what Paul does here, he holds up this picture before the Galatians.。
He holds up what's known as a vice list,。
where it lists all the acts of the flesh.。
And it's just an example, so it doesn't mean that's it.。
There's more stuff to it,。
but it's just probably specifically also targeted at the Galatians.。
Maybe that's some of the things he knows what's going on.。
And then the other one is he lists the fruit of the Spirit,。
the holiness, the righteousness, the character of Jesus。
that the Holy Spirit produced in our lives.。
So he holds that up to the Galatian Christians.。
And I want to look with you at both of them.。
So we're going to start with the acts of the flesh.。
But before I unpack that more,。
I actually want to talk about the word "flesh."。
Now, "flesh" for us, you know, just means, in English, means this.。
And that also means this in God's Word and in the Bible.。
It also means human body.。
But it also means our fallen, sinful human nature.。
So a lot of times when Paul talks about the flesh,。
that's what he's referring to, our fallen, sinful human nature,。
our inclination to do things that are not right and that don't please God.。
And so that's what "sarx" or "flesh," what that Greek word means.。
But let's look at this list that Paul gives us.。
So I'm going to read it again. It's verse 19.。
He says, "The acts of the flesh are obvious.。
Sexual morality, impurity, debauchery,。
idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, discord, jealousy, fits of rage,。
selfish ambition, dissension, faction, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and the like."。
So he just lays it all out there.。
And there's 15 things that he lists.。
And we can break those down into, like, three general categories.。
So let me share those categories with you.。
The first one is disunity.。
The second one is personal.。
And the third one is spiritual boundary crossing.。
So I want to unpack that a little bit.。
So when it talks about disunity, you know, these vices being in there,。
it means things like hatred, discord, jealousy, and on.。
And basically, that's the temptation, we're tempted within us to be,。
to bring separation between us and people.。
It's like actions that break down relationships。
because we cannot help to, you know, pursue our selfish things,。
but actually it's hurtful to other people.。
Like, that would be me when I was, if I would have taken the money from the cashier,。
then in the evening, you would have to count, "Why is all this money missing?"。
You know, would have raised some questions.。
So my selfishness would have impacted, you know, him.。
And so what these acts of the flesh do, they break down relationships.。
That's what sin does.。
It breaks down relationships between us and other people.。
And I think we can see that even if we just follow politics, right, around the world,。
whether the US election or, we can see there's a lot of acting in the flesh。
where there's just a breakdown of relationship。
and of how people relate to each other in that.。
So that's the first one, the temptations of the flesh,。
they lead us to this unity and to breakdown of relationship.。
The second one is personal, where the flesh tempts us to just say to ourselves,。
"Oh, it's okay, just indulge a little bit more in that.。
It's okay to drink a little bit more of that wine,。
even though you already had a bottle and a half.。
You know, just drink a little bit more.。
You know, it's okay to watch pornography.。
You know, you deserve it.。
Just relax and enjoy."。
So that's how the flesh tempts us.。
And so we personally indulge in things.。
And initially, those things feel good.。
Otherwise, we wouldn't do it.。
We're not stupid, right?。
We do things because initially they feel good.。
They do give pleasure, some pleasure.。
But in the end, they are also destructive to ourselves.。
They hurt ourselves.。
And a lot of times, they also end up hurting other people as well.。
And so that's a personal, you know, acts of the flesh that have a personal impact.。
And then the final one is spiritual boundary crossing.。
So that has to do with witchcraft, with idolatry.。
What that means is, like, you're just, you're a Christian,。
but there is a temptation that you believe maybe God cannot fully deliver.。
So I need to hedge my bets.。
So I'm not just going to trust God,。
but I'm also going to go to the fortune teller about my love life.。
And I'm going to ask him to, you know, help me and give me some insights。
so I can receive whoever it is that I'm meant to be with.。
Or it might be, like, maybe you do some sort of ritual。
so that more cash comes flowing in, you know,。
that we can receive, you know, all the blessings and everything, whatever.。
And you guys know, some of you know this even better than me,。
you know, all these things.。
But basically, all of this is rooted in a lack of trust in God,。
that God truly loves you, that he can truly provide for you,。
that he will truly, will be faithful to you.。
I've been saying that he will truly come through for you.。
And so we do these other things on the side.。
But the problem is that the source of these things is evil.。
It's Satan. It's demonic.。
And as Christians, we should not be crossing this boundary.。
But sometimes we do.。
But whenever we do, a lot of times evil leads to fear in our lives。
and just, we give evil a foothold in our lives.。
And so we don't want to do that.。
So those are the acts of the flesh.。
And so Paul is holding us up before the Galatians.。
And we can see that this represents the power of the flesh。
to bring out the worst in our lives.。
You know, just really brings destruction in our personal lives and to others as well.。
So that's the first thing.。
But then Paul also holds up the fruit of the Spirit.。
And so let's look at those in verse 22 and 23.。
It says this, "But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace,。
forbearance, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control.。
Against such things there is no law."。
So Paul holds up the ninefold fruit.。
And I want to briefly talk about those.。
At some point in time, maybe we'll do a sermon series on that.。
That would be fun.。
No guarantees.。
But as I was looking at this, I was like, "Oh, that would be interesting to unpack all of those."。
But let me just briefly touch on each of them.。
So love is not some sentimental feeling, you know, that the Spirit produces in us,。
but it's actually the self-giving, sacrificial love towards others that looks like Jesus。
because we care about the welfare, the flourishing, and the thriving of others.。
So it's a self-giving love.。
So that's the fruit of love.。
That's the Spirit of God working in us.。
The second one is joy.。
Joy is not dependent on our circumstances.。
It's not happiness that if our circumstances are good, we're happy.。
If they're bad, we're not.。
Joy depends on who God is.。
And we can have joy and experience joy even in painful moments in our lives。
because God is with us.。
He's faithful.。
He loves us.。
We can know His promises.。
We can know His presence even in the midst of a very difficult experience.。
And the Holy Spirit can give us joy in Him.。
And then peace.。
We have peace with God。
because of what Jesus has done.。
There is a broken relationship between us and God,。
but because of His sacrifice on the cross,。
He has brought us in a relationship with God.。
And so now we have peace with God,。
whereas before when we don't know Jesus, we actually had enmity with God.。
But then it's not only that.。
We also have the peace of God。
where God gives us peace that He is sovereign.。
Regardless of what's going on in our lives,。
we can trust in Him because He's sovereign.。
He will bring us through.。
He will see us through.。
And so we can also have peace in the midst of very difficult circumstances.。
Say, "I'm going to trust God because He's for me.。
He's not against me."。
We're talking about earlier in worship.。
And so, and of course, it also has to do with being,。
that we become peacemakers as well,。
where we bring the peace of God to others。
and we work towards the peace that God wants to bring.。
Then there's patience or forbearance.。
I actually like the translation "patience" more.。
So we talked about that a few Sundays ago。
where it was that Paul was being patient with the Galatians。
who were hating on him.。
They had turned on him.。
They saw him, they used to be friends, they used to be close,。
and then they saw him as an enemy.。
But Paul remained patiently working with them,。
not saying, "Forget you," and walking away,。
but continuing to pour his heart out。
because he wanted to see Christ fully formed in them.。
And I said in that message, I said that Paul was fighting for them,。
for their well-being, for their flourishing,。
while they were fighting him.。
So patience means we can be long-suffering.。
We can endure things and still do good despite of what's happening.。
But it also means, and that's where the forbearance part comes in,。
forbearance means that we can forgive and overlook sins。
that others commit against us.。
And so that's also the fruit of the Spirit in our lives。
that we're able to be patient,。
that we're able to show forbearance to others.。
Then there's kindness.。
God's Word says it's His kindness that leads us to repentance.。
It's His love, His mercy and grace.。
And so He also wants to bring about that same kindness in us。
so we can turn around and show that to other people.。
There is goodness, which is generosity.。
God is so generous.。
We sometimes say when we talk about our offering,。
as the fruit of the Spirit in our lives grows,。
because God is generous, we want to be generous people,。
generous with love, generous with grace,。
generous with our time, generous with our finances.。
Because when we're generous, we reflect the character of God.。
And so that is another fruit that God produces in our lives.。
Then there's faithfulness.。
The Holy Spirit makes us faithful people,。
faithful to other people,。
faithful to God.。
Then there's gentleness.。
It's a humility.。
It's being humble and treating other people gently.。
Also has a ring of that patience where we gently work,。
maybe to restore someone,。
and we don't treat them harshly.。
And then finally there is self-control.。
And self-control actually enables us。
not to carry out the acts of the flesh,。
because God brings about the fruit of self-control in our lives,。
where we're able to say no to whatever we're being tempted with.。
And so this is the fruit of the Spirit that Paul holds up.。
So if you look at those nine fruits,。
or its fruit, ninefold fruit,。
it's so hard to not use the plural.。
If you look at the ninefold fruit,。
it really looks like Jesus.。
It's a character of God that he wants to work out in our lives。
and bring about in our lives.。
And I don't know about you,。
but having these things grow in our lives,。
wouldn't that be amazing to see them unfold more and more and more and more?。
Man, I would love that,。
to look more and more like that.。
I'm sure you would as well.。
So Paul holds up the acts of the flesh and the fruit of the Spirit,。
and he basically is asking the Galatians, "Well, look at this.。
Who are you looking more like?。
What does your life look like?。
What does your community's life look like more?。
Is it one where there's fighting and where there's division。
and there's hatred and there's indulgence and all sorts of things?。
Or is it a community where there is sacrificial love towards one another,。
where there's gentleness, there's kindness,。
there's goodness displayed in that?"。
And so he's challenging the Galatians to be led by the Spirit,。
to walk with the Spirit.。
Because just because we have the Holy Spirit within us。
doesn't mean that we always surrender and open to his work in our lives.。
Now all of this, this tension,。
and honestly, if we ourselves look at that list,。
we can probably see things on the acts of the flesh list。
in ourselves as well from time to time,。
where we know that is still part of our lives.。
And so this points that there is actually a tension,。
there's a conflict, a battle around your heart,。
around your mind, around your thoughts, around your action.。
And that is true for every Christian.。
So I want to talk about that more.。
So let's go to looking at that.。
And we see that in Galatians 5, 16 through 18, and it says this,。
"So I say, live by the Spirit,。
and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh.。
For the flesh desires what is contrary to the Spirit,。
and the Spirit what is contrary to the flesh.。
They are in conflict with each other,。
so that you are not to do whatever you want.。
But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law."。
So Paul puts the live by the Spirit。
in opposition to the gratifying the desires of the flesh.。
And so it's important to recognize,。
you know, we've been talking about is that,。
because Jesus has come,。
and when we place our faith in Jesus,。
He breaks the power of sin in our lives.。
We are no longer enslaved to sin.。
The victory has been won.。
But it doesn't mean that there are still battles that we fight.。
And so, with the help of my wife,。
I created a chart, so I want to show you that.。
And I was inspired from another chart,。
but I don't know the source of that,。
or I couldn't find that, but let's look at that.。
So here you see the...。
Actually, let me go to the side here.。
Well, that doesn't really help.。
It's like I need to, I need to like...。
Whoa, I need to like stand like right here, right?。
Stand in the middle. Okay, there we go.。
But I can't see it.。
Okay, so we have the life apart from Jesus.。
You know, sin has power over us.。
We're in chains.。
We are not free.。
We give in, you know, to our sinful nature,。
and we live in that sin.。
And our flesh draws us away from God.。
You know, so you really have this force working this way。
that it wants to separate us from God,。
and we are living in separation of God.。
So that is our condition.。
But then when we become Christian,。
when we have life with Jesus,。
one thing that happens is that the Holy Spirit。
comes into our hearts.。
Now, biblically, the heart,。
it's most of the time in the New Testament talks about it's metaphorical.。
So it's a place where decisions are made.。
It's also where our spiritual life takes place,。
our doubts, our faithfulness,。
and also our decisions.。
Our faith happens in the heart.。
And so now we find ourselves,。
yes, there are still forces that are drawing us away from God.。
We still deal with the sinful flesh and the temptations of it.。
But now the Holy Spirit within us,。
you know, is giving us desire for the things of God。
and helping us to pursue the things of God in our lives。
and gives us a grace and a strength and a power。
as we learn to rely on the Holy Spirit。
for God's work to unfold in our lives.。
And so you do see, though, that there is tension,。
that we are being pulled in two different directions.。
And that's what verse 17 talks about,。
that what the flesh desires is opposite to what the Spirit desires.。
Now, one thing that is important, though, to say,。
sometimes you could get an impression。
that these are equal forces at work,。
you know, that the Holy Spirit and the flesh,。
you know, it's like a 50/50 sort of pull.。
But that's not true.。
You know, the Holy Spirit is more powerful than our sinful desires.。
And as we learn to rely on the Holy Spirit,。
you know, He allows us to overcome,。
you know, the temptations that we face。
and to gain victory in our lives over sin.。
And that is a process.。
And He gives us the grace to do that.。
And He will see us through in that.。
He will give us victory.。
And so, like, one thing that I felt very strongly。
as I'm sharing about this is。
that I think we start believing in the lie,。
you know, that we are just helpless,。
we cannot do anything else,。
we're just stuck in whatever it is going on,。
you know, that we're stuck in with our sinful actions,。
with our acts of the flesh.。
But that Jesus wants to say to us,。
you know, like, "With me, we can overcome this.。
I'm going to give you the strength and a grace。
to transform your life.。
I'm going to give you grace and the strength。
by the power of the Holy Spirit。
to bring true transformation in your hearts,。
in your minds, in your actions."。
And so I just want to just put that very clearly out there,。
that if you are a Christian,。
you know, you, the Holy Spirit will give you victory.。
Now, of course, we have a responsibility。
and we're going to look at that in a second,。
but that's just very important and very clear.。
Now, not too long ago, Pastor Andrew,。
he preached a message and he said something。
that I think is relevant for us here.。
He said, "If the enemy can keep you from being a Christian,。
the next best thing for him to do。
is to keep you from being a mature and effective one."。
And so what the enemy wants to do is he wants the,。
even though we have the Holy Spirit,。
but he wants us keeping being stuck。
in these patterns of sin and these sinful desires。
that were caught up in them。
and that we are then ineffective,。
you know, that we carry a lot of shame,。
that we feel, you know, all of that。
and just are not as available to him.。
That's where the enemy wants us.。
But Jesus has come to set us free,。
has come to break the power of sin in our lives.。
And we are a new creation。
and he wants you to learn to walk and to live。
in the newness that he has created in you.。
And a lot of the transformation,。
God can work instantly.。
Like I met a drug addict。
who told me his testimony in the US。
and when he became a Christian,。
you know, the Holy Spirit broke the power of his addiction.。
I mean, he was addicted to heavy drugs。
that he suddenly couldn't,。
he developed a bad taste for them.。
He couldn't handle them anymore.。
So he pretty much immediately stopped using.。
Now that was a power of the Holy Spirit。
changing that man's life.。
Now, of course, the Holy Spirit also works。
and I think in many instances works,。
in most instances, gradually.。
You know, as we continue to yield to him,。
as we continue to surrender to him,。
as we continue to come to him and pray and say,。
"Help me with this.。
I struggle with this.。
I feel the pull, you know, from my sinful nature.。
I'm even, or I'm stuck in it."。
But as we continue to come to him。
and offer ourselves to him。
and ask him for his grace and ask him for his strength,。
he will give us his grace,。
he will give us his strength。
and he will help us overcome and see us through it.。
And so, but that's why Paul is encouraging。
the Galatians to be led by the Spirit,。
to live by the Spirit,。
and to keep in step with the Spirit.。
And that's our responsibility.。
But what in the world does that mean?。
How do you do that?。
So that's what I want to look at with you now.。
And that also goes to our opening question.。
How can we be led by the Spirit。
and live lives that honor God?。
How can we say yes to what the Holy Spirit wants to do。
and see this fruit of the Holy Spirit unfold in our lives。
and see the character of Christ form us more and more。
so we look more and more like Jesus,。
so we become people who contribute to the flourishing。
and the thriving to those around us,。
so we become, so we, our lives reflect the goodness of God。
in the lives of others.。
So let's look at that.。
So we find some clues in Galatians 5, 24 and 25.。
So I want to read that to you.。
It says that, "Those who belong to Christ Jesus。
have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.。
Since we live by the Spirit,。
let us keep in step with the Spirit."。
So how do we live by the Spirit?。
Well, first, we need to put to death daily。
the flesh with its passions and desires.。
You know, Paul talked about, "I am crucified with Christ.。
It is no longer I who live, but it's Christ who lives in me.。
The life I now live, I live in the flesh in faith in Him。
who loves me and gave Himself for me."。
That was almost correct, but not 100%.。
You know, so that is, when you're a Christian,。
that's our story.。
That's our narrative.。
We are crucified with Christ.。
So yes, won this victory, but then on a daily basis,。
as these things come up, we need to battle them.。
We need to engage in actually what's happening.。
We need to bring those things to Jesus.。
We can do that on our own, where we come and pray to Jesus,。
"Jesus, help me.。
Give me grace.。
Give me strength to overcome this thing that's going on."。
I think a lot of times there's power in actually talking,。
perhaps a close friend,。
maybe it's your community group leader,。
maybe it's a pastor,。
maybe somebody from the prayer team,。
somebody you know here,。
just ask them to pray with you,。
to overcome and put to death the things of the flesh in your life.。
And to ask Jesus for victory,。
to ask the Holy Spirit to lead you。
and to give you the strength and this grace to overcome。
whatever that you are facing that is going on.。
Now, the second thing is, we find a clue in verse 25.。
It says, "Since we live by the Spirit,。
let us keep on step with the Spirit."。
Our life as a Christian begins through the Spirit.。
Gospel of John talks about we are born again.。
We're born of the Spirit.。
That's how our Christian life begins.。
That's how we are a new creation.。
You know, the new has come, the old has gone.。
But it's not only that we begin our life through the Spirit.。
We actually also live our life by the power of the Holy Spirit.。
That was something that Paul talked about。
in Galatians 3, 3 that, you know, now that you began the Spirit,。
why are you trying to continue in the flesh。
to gain righteousness and holiness?。
It's like you need to continue with the Spirit.。
Well, it also uses here in this verse, in verse 25,。
the metaphor of keeping in step with the Spirit.。
So keeping in step with the Spirit,。
that is an imagery or a metaphor of military marching.。
And so for us to keep in step with the Spirit,。
we're walking step for step with the Spirit in the same, in unison.。
Well, how do we do that?。
Well, one thing is we actually need to draw close to God.。
And we draw close to God because if you want to keep in step with the Spirit,。
you need to be close with the Spirit, to walk with the Spirit,。
to be aligned with the Spirit,。
so that your life and your actions are aligned with Him.。
And so we draw close to God, A, through repentance.。
When we come to God and say,。
"Lord, I know the way I'm living is wrong.。
Please forgive me."。
God loves to forgive us.。
He loves showing us His grace.。
If we confess our sins,。
He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins。
and cleanse us from all unrighteousness.。
Talks about in 1 John 1, verse 9.。
And so we come in repentance.。
So that's one way of drawing close.。
But we also draw close, you know, by spending time in God's Word。
and saying, "Holy Spirit, you know,。
reveal to me what you're saying, you know, through this Word.。
Help me to understand this."。
We also draw close to God by prayerful relationship with Jesus。
as we live in this relationship.。
And we're just prayerfully talking throughout the day.。
You know, you don't have to always have a quiet place。
and be able to close your eyes to pray.。
You can pray even while somebody else is talking,。
you know, with your eyes open.。
And we're just living this relationship, you know, with the Holy Spirit.。
And we're open, we're available for the Holy Spirit to speak to us.。
And we can gain a better sense for what He's saying.。
And then also we can desire, we can pray,。
"Holy Spirit, fill me, fill me with your presence.。
Fill me.。
Show me what it is that you desire of me.。
Show me what it means to walk with you.。
And as we make that our desire, our heart's longing,。
you know, as we pour that out to God,。
He will meet us and He will empower us。
and He will give us strength to walk and keep and step with Him.。
And then another part is obedience.。
You know, when God tells us something, we actually need to do it.。
And that's like one part that we also struggle.。
But if God shows you something, reveals something,。
you actually need to do it.。
We actually need to put in practice.。
And so obedience is also a way of drawing close to God.。
And so then finally, and so I thought that aligned amazingly with the worship,。
is that we need to trust God's promises.。
If we want to walk with the Spirit,。
if we want to see the fruit of the Spirit unfold in our lives.。
Because here's the thing, you know,。
the fruit of the Spirit is not something that you or I can bring about in our lives.。
It is always 100% the work of God.。
And He wants to unfold that in your lives.。
And He also will unfold that in your lives.。
And so we can trust in His promises.。
Now a lot of times we're overwhelmed because we're fumbling and stumbling,。
you know, through life.。
Actually, I have to think of my baby girl, Ellie.。
She learned walking a month ago.。
So she walks, but she's not walking that stable yet.。
So she fumbles and fumbles,。
but she eventually gets to where she's trying to go.。
And I think this is a picture for us。
that maybe we feel like we're fumbling, stumbling,。
where we keep not being who we want to be.。
But God promises that He will get you to where,。
you know, to where He has a plan for us.。
He will accomplish His saving, His healing,。
His renewing work in your life.。
He will make you holy.。
He will bring about the life of Christ。
that is reflective in your life.。
He will unfold the fruit of the Spirit in your life.。
And so Philippians 1, 6, it says this.。
It says, "Being confident of this,。
that we who began a good work in you。
will carry it to completion until the day of Christ Jesus."。
So that's Philippians 1, verse 6.。
Let me read this again.。
"Being confident of this,。
that he who began a good work in you。
will carry it on to completion until the day of Christ Jesus."。
That's God's promise to us,。
that He will bring us to completion.。
And we can have faith that God is faithful.。
We sang about it earlier,。
and that He will see us through.。
You know, He will bring about this transformation。
in our hearts and in our lives.。
And so we can rest in that.。
And the way we do that is just by beholding by who God is,。
by meditating on His Word,。
and just saying, "It's not by my strength,。
but it's by your power,。
you know, that we will overcome whatever issue you're facing,。
and He will see me through.。
He will bring victory.。
He will complete His work that He has begun in you."。
And so we have reason to be hopeful.。
And confident in God.。
I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
Now, some of us, you know, we've been feeling。
just this battle raging.。
And maybe even today, as maybe even last night or this week,。
you know, we gave in to the desires of the flesh.。
And you hear this morning,。
and maybe this was not the most comfortable message to come to,。
but I believe that God wants to just pour His grace and forgiveness.。
You know, it is available.。
He doesn't shame you.。
He doesn't shame us when we come to Him with our struggles.。
That's why He died for us.。
And He did it willingly.。
And He did it, you know, because He loves us.。
And He meets us with that same love.。
And He just wants to pour His grace, His forgiveness,。
you know, over you if that's you right now.。
He just wants to reveal His love to you, remove the shame.。
He's saying, "I love you."。
Now, others of us, we've lost trust in God.。
Like we're just find ourselves in these, you know,。
struggling with these temptations and with the sin.。
And we're like, "Is God ever going to come through?。
Is He ever -- am I ever going to overcome this?。
Am I going to be eternally stuck in these habitual patterns of sin?。
And for whatever reason, am I able to -- is He broken in my life?"。
And as we heard today, the truth is that, you know, Jesus is more powerful.。
He will see you through.。
He will give you victory.。
Come to Him.。
He wants to restore trust in our lives.。
He wants to renew our faith in Him.。
And He wants to shut down the lie of the enemy who tells us there is no hope.。
You know, you're just stuck there.。
That's just where you are.。
But that's a lie.。
Jesus wants to break the power of sin in your life and give you freedom。
and let you walk in His freedom.。
I want to invite you just -- everyone to stand.。
Just -- if you want to just make yourself available to, you know, the Holy Spirit,。
I just want to encourage you to stretch out your hands before you.。
And we'd just love to pray over you.。
Jesus, I thank you that you are not finished with us yet.。
We pray, Holy Spirit, come.。
We fill your people with your presence.。
We fill your people with the fruit of the Spirit.。
We unfold this work in our lives.。
There's so many areas where we're not yet who we want to be,。
not yet who you have created us to be, who you're calling us to be.。
But, Lord, we're trusting you that you will give us victory,。
that your work will unfold in our lives,。
and that we will be more beautiful, more holy, more like you,。
as we just keep coming to you.。
And, see, Lord, we desire that.。
We want that.。
Lord, I pray for anyone who's, you know, just experiencing shame。
and just been overwhelmed by that.。
Holy Spirit, I pray that you reveal your love, your grace,。
the love of Jesus, the grace of Jesus right now.。
That you wash away our sins, that you wash away our brokenness,。
that you bring healing, that you bring renewal,。
that you do something new.。
Lord, I thank you that we are a work in progress that you will complete,。
that we will be more like you, more loving,。
that we will--the fruit of the Spirit will unfold in us.。
And I pray for us as a community that we be a community.。
And I pray for when people come here that they can see the fruit of your Spirit.。
You know, how there is love, how there is generosity, how there is kindness,。
how there is patience, how there is peace, how there is gentleness,。
how there is self-control, and that people will know it's because,。
Holy Spirit, you are at work among us.。
And so I pray for your blessing.。
I pray for your strength.。
I pray for your provision over every one of us.。
Thank you Jesus that you are not finished with us and we say Amen.。
