Good morning. My name is Justin. One of the pastors here. I've seen you guys and but if you're this is your first time here。
Everyone watching online just want to say hi my name is Justin。
And we just want to say those of you who have left Hong Kong recently。
Friends all around the world watching just we miss you here at the same time. I want to welcome friends returning。
To spend the holidays here. You know who you are. I just want to do a special shout out。
Now in this advent series, we've been looking at different characters from the Christmas story。
entering their narratives with a bit of biblical imagination and。
the central question that we are asking ourselves in this season of Avent is。
What kind of false kings are currently?。
Reigning in our hearts because we need to dethrone them。
We need to recognize what they are so that we could make more room for。
Our true king actually speaking of room if you have a seat beside you。
Could you can I ask you kindly to move in so that more people who are standing?。
Can have a seat and I really appreciate that. Thank you。
So let me recap where we are right now。
so in the first week pastor Andrew spoke about the need to dethrone Herod who。
represents our。
persistent need to control things and to be the center of attention and。
Last week pastor Allison through the story of Zechariah。
Taught us that doubt can lead us astray. But at the same time doubt is healthy and it is necessary for us。
Today we explore in more detail one of the more。
Celebrated and yet highly disputed aspects of the traditional Christmas story where there was no room for。
Mary and Joseph to have。
Baby Jesus in Bethlehem and this resulted in Jesus being born and needing to be born in less than ideal。
circumstances in a dark damp。
Stable and some would even argue that it's a cave。
Now many scholars have discussed and I'm going to summarize for us that the actual issue that Bethlehem had was not a housing crisis。
But in fact, it was their unwillingness。
to open up their homes to a pregnant and。
unmarried woman。
Through scriptures we can see that Mary of course。
accepted God's will for her and she。
Meditated upon her heart the message of Gabriel and what God is about to do in throughout humanity。
But scriptures also say that Mary was troubled not just troubled but she was deeply。
Disturbed she was distressed. She was unnerved. She was anxious because she was carrying the Son of God and。
also, she was disturbed because。
pregnancy outside of marriage in first century Jewish society was regarded as an。
absolute horror as。
A result of her obedience to God Mary would have become an outcast of society。
Her reputation would have been deeply tarnished. She would have carried personal disgrace and。
exclusion literal exclusion from her community and I want to add that this shame。
Implicates not just Mary but Joseph and their wider families and everyone。
associated with Mary and Joseph so you can imagine how devastating emotionally and。
Relationally, this is on everyone not just Mary and Joseph。
What becomes more shocking right as of this is not enough?。
Mary and Joseph realized upon arrival avian having traveled dear and far while pregnant。
Through dangerous roads just to get to Bethlehem。
What was shocking to them is that most of Bethlehem were?。
Joseph's relatives who did not open up their house and their homes and their hearts to them。
because Bethlehem in short did not want to be associated with a woman who was believed to be a sinner and。
Next in the Christmas story。
It says that Mary is in birth pangs. And of course, baby Jesus is born。
Church I want to。
Say that the central characters in today's message is actually not Joseph and Mary。
But rather the people of Bethlehem because what lies beneath or behind this famous Christmas story is something that all of us。
Can relate to it. That's something universal and common to all of us in our everyday life。
so today I'm gonna ask you as I share as I preach I'm gonna ask you invite you to。
Use your imagination with me to exercise some biblical。
imagination。
Because I want to I wonder about on beyond the shame and stigma。
Mary's pregnancy brought what other reasons do you think caused the entire town of Bethlehem?。
Joseph's own relatives to shun them completely and。
To begin maybe I just want you to remember a recent time。
Where you were offended?。
Because the people that you sought understanding that you sought friendship and a moment of companion。
You sought refuge。
Mutually X did not extend themselves to you. I just want you to remember if you can a recent time and how you felt。
Last year I。
Had a solo trip to Fukuoka. I haven't traveled by myself in 12 years. So it was a joy。
I had a week there just to reflect at the end of the year and。
Anyways, one of the things I was looking forward to was trying out this highly recommended Japanese Italian carbonara fusion restaurant。
I'm not a foodie myself, but when I'm traveling, you know, you you just do what locals do。
So one night I got lost one day. I got lost。
I decide not to use Google Maps and I。
Wandered into this really chic area and lo and behold guess what?。
This was the restaurant that my friend highly recommended me to try out now。
I know you're gonna judge me because I didn't make a booking once again, I got lost and I just said hey, I'm on vacation。
I'm gonna take it easy. So anyways, I walked in and I politely asked is there a table of one?。
This was at 6 p.m。
There were only three parties here。
and of course, I saw a lot of empty seats like especially a bar with single seats and。
In their polite Japanese mannerisms. They said sorry, sir. We are fully booked and。
I thought okay。
Clearly I don't understand that so I took out my Google Translate and I said hey。
I just want to try one of your carbonara's and I'll be out within half an hour. Can I please sit here and。
in their。
Utter most polite Japanese mannerisms. Once again, they smile and nodded and said sorry sir. We do not have any room。
now。
Once again, I I don't normally get upset about this stuff, but I was disappointed I was sad。
You know I was I did feel a little bit rejected because all I really wanted to know was why couldn't I have a place?。
at this table because there were many spots and I want you just to feel for a second over this trivial matter of。
What it means what it feels like to be denied a place at the table because for Joseph and Mary。
They weren't just denied a place to eat. They were denied a place in which they were to give birth to the Savior of the world。
and how Mary and Joseph were treated by Bethlehem gives us some indication that。
Some of the kings that actually reign in our life。
they're very subtle and they actually disguise themselves and operate beneath our noses and。
I think the warning here a light-hearted warning is that if we don't dethrone these Kings。
One we will certainly not be able to make room for what God would like to do in our hearts。
But to tragically like the people of Bethlehem。
They missed out in partaking in the greatest event in history。
Orchestrated by the Living God because they were too daft to be aware。
And so before we talk about the hidden Kings in the hearts of the people of Bethlehem。
I want to just lay out a very simple。
Biblical context from Paul and Jesus so that we can understand that sometimes these Kings is。
Not as easy as hey pray about it. Just just give it to God, you know, he'll deal with it。
That's what we say. But how do you get there in practice? I want to just lay out a foundation。
So at the very heart of the problem what we're looking at here is a very human problem is a human propensity。
to sin and。
In our sin we falsely believe that we are kings that we are actually in control that we have the right to judge。
what is right and wrong and to a certain extent, of course we do and。
within scriptures, there are a lot of warnings that。
Turn us that that encourage us to steer away from this deluded thinking for example in Romans 2 famously Paul。
quotes from Isaiah and。
He famously confronts this false reality。
and。
He reminds us that all of us all of us here all of us listening。
we are all not righteous in the sight of God because。
all of us live under the influence power and tyranny of sin and。
A few chapters later by Paul's own omission。
he would say he would admit he would confess that I。
Hate what I do because of the evil that is within my flesh。
It is no longer that I do it but the sin within me that causes me to do the most。
Detestable things and I hate that this is Paul's own words。
So now I want to tell you what Jesus hated。
now if you read the scriptures。
You'll realize how many times he confronts the religious leaders of his day。
that is the Pharisees and the Sadducees and。
What he hated most was the fact that these religious leaders who had a lot of power prestige and influence。
They led the young believers astray because they were self-righteous because they were hypocritical。
they did not follow what they taught and above all they cared more about how religious and。
Spiritual they look to others。
than the well-being of the people that actually follow them so Jesus hated this and。
25 years before Paul talked about the sin that caused him to do what he did not like。
Jesus emphasized that what made us sinful what caused us to turn away from the Living God is。
Everything that flows from inside here。
You'll remember in Matthew or Mark Jesus says from the core of our hearts from our very being。
Comes everything that is evil the intentions the desires to murder for adultery。
sexual immorality our thoughts of stealing lying slandering others。
The desire to do wickedness to do foolish things that the desire for extreme greed for wealth。
and material gain。
Where our lack of moral restraint comes from we think that we have all the freedom to do whatever we like。
Envy and of course arrogance。
So it is upon this firm this foundation of what Paul and Jesus hated。
That I would like to draw out with a bit of biblical imagination。
what the people of Bethlehem failed to dethrone the Kings that they failed to dethrone and。
So I envision in preparing this message that the Kings perhaps that they struggled with was their pride。
Was their tongues and also was their fears?。
The first King Bethlehem failed to dethrone was their sense of pride。
Because our pride in within each of us refuses to be small before God。
Why should we we we we can think we know what to do?。
We've done it before our experience tells us that we know better。
But the danger is that our pride blinds us to see。
That we actually need the same things before a living God。
We need the same things to survive in this world. We need food. We need shelter. We need clothing。
We need affection. We need welcome and above all we need help and。
So we forget as humans that because we're all the same we then believe falsely that we know how to treat each other。
and。
So I would imagine that it is Bethlehem's pride that led the people。
To ultimately draw their hearts harsh condemning and condescending judgment on Mary and Joseph。
You can imagine what they were thinking。
They should have known better. No, why would why would you have a baby out of wedlock? They're not even married yet。
Why are so why are say so so silly and foolish to do such a thing and church? I want to just ask you to。
Remember if you can how many times have you and I?。
wrongfully or。
harshly misjudged our neighbor and our brother and sisters when it was never in our place to because we didn't actually。
Understand what they were going through inside。
Bethlehem didn't understand what Mary was going to do for God。
Bethlehem's pride led them to believe that they were morally and spiritually more superior and。
they thought in their pride and arrogance that they had to hold Mary and Joseph accountable for their wrongdoing and。
Therefore they thought okay. This is how we're gonna punish them。
We are gonna turn them away and we are not gonna host them because once again, they should have known better。
the second King。
Bethlehem allowed to remain enthroned in their hearts is。
The natural tendency to gossip and to slander them。
Because they thought that they had the right。
So church imagine if this week today we hear that Mary and Joseph were going to come visit us。
Can you imagine what kind of conversations we would have individually but also as a community when we gather?。
It's like hey, did you hear Mary and Joseph are coming? What do you think?。
Imagine how much gossip how we would talk about them behind their backs。
And。
As Jesus taught us it is within our sinful nature to actually enjoy gossip。
To enjoy slandering and I mean based on all the stuff we like watching。
We actually get some kind of kick out of seeing someone's moral downfall。
Because the very need to do this is comes deep within our hearts。
The author of James in James chapter 3 verse 8 to 10 it I don't think it's on PowerPoint。
but this is what he says about our tongues he says who can tame the tongue a。
Restless evil full of deadly poison with the tongue. We bless the Lord our Father。
We sing praises to him and with it we curse people made in the image of God。
From the same mouth comes blessing and curse my brothers and sister James says this ought not to be so in。
Luke chapter 6 verse 45 Jesus says。
Whether you're having a good day or you're having a bad and terrible day。
Jesus says out of the abundance of our hearts the mouth speaks。
So this means that if our hearts intent right now is ill meaning its mean spirited。
We have nothing good to say。
Then you can easily imagine how much hurt and harm and wounding our words can cause。
It is our inability to hold our tongue。
Many times that causes the most strife and dissension and hurt within our relationships。
and。
Scriptures say that Mary and Joseph didn't just endure gossip and slander as they approached Bethlehem。
According to the Gospel of Matthew. It says that they stayed a little longer in Bethlehem before they fled to Egypt。
Preparing for today's message I。
was made aware of all the little careless words that come out of my mouth all the little times that I came to you and。
Wanting to know what how this couple was doing. I was secretly really gossiping. I。
Was just curious and wanting to know and and you know thinking back. I just think in the moment when we gossip it feels great。
but oftentimes there's instant regret。
because I realized every little word has the power to destroy to break someone's spirit or。
our words can build up and encourage someone and。
I like to think about toothpaste. I learned this in marriage prep. I thought it's completely useful。
Our words is like。
Toothpaste right once it comes out. You can't force it back in you can't unforget it。
you can't unhear what someone said about us and it really hurts us and。
so。
This is something that I do personally before every conversation. I have before every big meeting。
I check myself I premeditate how is my heart doing because if I am in a bad mood if I'm cranky if I'm angry I。
Want to make sure and check what I have to say whether it's worthwhile whether it's going to be encouraging or is it just going to?。
be worthless and。
What really humbles me is that I'm mindful that our words have this power。
You know and we as Hong Kong people。
know how busy we are right we say this all the time from here and we tell ourselves that and。
And what also keeps my mouth just shut when I shouldn't be talking is I don't need more relational problems。
because of what I say and so that keeps me just。
meditating。
So the last King I feel like Bethlehem。
Allowed to be enthroned in their hearts was their own fears。
It was Bethlehem's own fears that were very self-focused. It was。
self-preserving fears。
Could it be that the people of Bethlehem feared more for their own reputation?。
Than the well-being of a pregnant teenage mother。
Was it easier to say to Mary and Joseph that there was no room in our city。
Then to deal with the social shame that would come from hosting them。
After all what would the neighboring towns what would the Sadducees?。
what would the Pharisees think of us as a town if we hosted such sinners and。
So perhaps it was out of fear that Bethlehem and out of fear of losing their social status having their reputation。
Tarnished and having their lives interrupted that they thought it was easier to close their hearts to Mary and Joseph。
Then to welcome them。
the people of Bethlehem's response to Mary and Joseph confronts us with a very stark question and。
It's this question. Are we too?。
Worried about what others might think of us and are we fearful of how our reputations might be tarnished if we really?。
Lived out what Jesus called us to live out。
I want to give you an example here because I I know sometimes we think well, we're not Bethlehem。
Of course, we would know, you know if God came by we would open up our hearts。
But I want to give you a good example, like just imagine tomorrow. You're in your classroom. You're at your workplace。
You're hanging out you're having a lunch dinner with a group of friends and most of them are not believers。
Most of them don't know anything about your faith about Jesus about God. And so at some point in the conversation, they're like, hey。
We had a debate here. Can you answer us your question?。
I we have a question for you are all of us though. We're not believers. Are we gonna heaven with you?。
now I。
Don't know where you are in your theology and what you believe about what happens to us after。
death。
Right and first Peter he says in chapter 3 verse 15。
He says always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope。
That you have do this with gentleness and respect now in that moment。
Will you be worried about。
What others think of you will it hinder you from sharing what you understand。
Currently about the afterlife and about eternal life and that God has hope for us。
and。
This is just a count one of countless examples that held me back from having certain hard。
conversations in the last many years and there are many times where I feel like I was disobedient to God because I was too scared of。
Having my life interrupted having my schedule interrupted. But of course, there are many times where I just said I。
Would overcome this fear and just brave these difficult conversations and in those moments we experienced God's grace together。
and。
One of the biggest lessons I continue to learn again and again week in week out is。
How Satan uses our fears and exaggerates them causes us to do nothing to love our neighbor and sister。
And he uses us uses our fears to intimidate us like Goliath。
Intimidating David so that we would remain useless for God。
But once again what what really humbles me and what encourages me to have these and not let our fears given is to。
Remember who ultimately who holds the power to transform our hearts?。
Who allows us and gives us the courage to overcome our fear so that we can do what God has asked us to do。
So church I want to recap that。
With a little bit of biblical imagination that the Kings that Bethlehem struggled to dethrone was their pride。
was their gossiping and slandering and it was their fears that held them back and。
Once again, I want to remind us that the people of Bethlehem were humans like you and I and so we have the same problems。
We have the same struggles and therefore we cannot just ignore it. We cannot just justify it away。
We need to through our lifetime。
Figure out how do we dethrone these Kings that constantly come and subtly manipulate us?。
Cause us to lead and be led astray by God。
Not by God, but by the enemy。
Ironically, it was Bethlehem's pride. It was their tongues. It was their gossiping。
It was their heart and hearts that caused them to not welcome the only one who could actually make them righteous。
That they missed out on the opportunity of hosting the only one that could truly。
Transform their hearts because they like the Pharisees later on in Jesus's ministry。
They would judge Mary and Joseph only by the surface the Pharisees and Sadducees would judge Jesus's unusual teaching。
his unusual。
Incredible miracles and say we want nothing to do with him and by doing so they missed out。
completely on the opportunity to host the Savior of the world and。
So I want to。
Propose that perhaps the problem Bethlehem had was not a housing crisis. Once again, it was not just their pride。
It was not just their gossiping and what was inside their hearts and their fears。
but they were telltale sounds of something little deeper and。
Fundamentally, I think Bethlehem struggled with a welcoming problem。
Bethlehem had an unwillingness。
They were unwilling and an inability to show the very welcome that God had shown them。
One of my favorite passages that I often reflect on is mark chapter 10 verse 13 to 16 where Jesus says。
Whoever welcomes one such as a child in my name。
welcomes me。
This grounds me this keeps me humble because in Jesus's day。
This was such a radical teaching because children in Jesus's day. They were literally nobody's they were as good as slaves。
They did not have status at all today our children they flourish because they have everything they have rights。
They have privileges. They have they are well loved and so can you imagine how?。
Radical this teaching is Jesus is saying to Bethlehem to everyone who would listen。
Treat this stranger treat this person who is considered by society to be worthless。
Who has no wealth no reputation nothing that you would envy them for I want you to treat them like you treat me。
because this from now on is the way in God's kingdom and。
So for Bethlehem to not welcome Mary and Joseph even though they may not have known。
Whether they knew or not what was going on the fact that they didn't welcome them was like in effect them turning away Yahweh。
and。
so in this。
Advent season Jesus says to us。
That if we are able to show someone that Hong Kong shuns。
With care and hospitality and grace, then we don't render a service and love just to them。
But we also render it on to Jesus himself。
How many times did we ourselves wish that we were welcomed by those we're seeking。
Grace from in our greatest moment of need and desperation grief and anguish。
It's just this is a silly thing。
But I I wonder if someone went back into the future to Bethlehem 30 years prior and say guys guys guys guys。
Please listen to me. You guys are gonna you guys are about to make the silliest mistake。
You have to welcome Mary and Joseph. I wonder whether Bethlehem would have listened。
I wonder whether they would humble themselves and dethroned all the king so that。
Every house could make room and that they would fight to host Mary and Joseph. I。
Often think about us as a church right because a lot of us。
Majority of us in this room. We are Christians, but just because we're Christians doesn't necessarily mean we know how to welcome someone。
it doesn't necessarily mean that we know how to treat someone and。
So I wonder in a very sobering way whether we are a welcoming church because I hear many things and I rather not hear them。
but I I often do think about if Jesus came in a。
Pregnant mother if Jesus came through a hurting child。
you know, would we be welcoming and。
and I I say this with seriousness。
But I also want to invite all of us today to reflect on our lives and how welcoming we are。
and I want to especially say that if you are in a power a power a。
Position of power you have the ability to turn someone away。
People look to you in your schools in your workplace in your homes in your communities. They look to you for。
Encouragement. I want you to reflect on today's message because you have the power to encourage them to bless them。
But also to turn them away and make them feel unwelcome。
and。
I say this because one we are held accountable to how we welcome those in front of us as Christ welcomed us on。
The cross but also I think the stakes are too high。
You know nowadays we cannot afford for someone to turn away from God because we are too much like Bethlehem in the moment。
Perhaps in a way of closing our time together today。
I want to share a memory that surfaced for me as I was preparing this message。
I want to tell you a time that really radically changed me when I was 17 a。
Year after I became a Christian I grew up in Canada. I grew up in Toronto. I lived a privileged life in middle class。
There wasn't much poverty. I had everything I needed as a child。
My parents were amazing to me。
Schooling was great great friends. Nothing to really complain about。
So that was my background and so one time I want to tell you about my friend Walter。
Who's still a very dear friend to me? He's still in Canada. And so when we're 17, we went to different schools. He said hey。
This weekday after school you want to come downtown with me where there was poverty where it's very exciting for a teenager to hang。
out all the coolest shops all。
Everything happened downtown. And so of course I would take up his offer. And so I said, yes Walter。
I'll love to come down to downtown with you have dinner with your friend。
and so we traveled down together went downtown came up the subway and。
We walked towards the restaurant and I remember asking him。
Hey is your friend meeting us there or we gonna pick him up or her up and he said, oh, don't worry。
They'll show up. So anyways, we walked to a restaurant and then suddenly my friend Walter just stopped and。
spoke with what seems to be a homeless man who I've not seen that much right and。
so Walter started talking as though they were。
they haven't caught up in a long time and they were just chatting and I was invited in the conversation and。
At some point the man got up and we went to the restaurant together and in that moment I realized。
Walter wanted me to join him to have dinner with this homeless gentleman. And so time went by。
Had lovely conversation we had Taco Bell。
Not not great food, but back then it was great。
Amazing conversation and as a way of wrapping up Walter's like, oh we need to go home。
Is there anything else you need from us?。
Can we do anything for you and the man thought about it and said actually Walter I need new trousers。
So guess what we did。
We went shopping for new trousers。
And so then we parted ways and and I only remember two more things one thing。
I remember that day Walter's face was beaming from the inside out and。
- I remember asking him Walter. Why do you do this? How often do you do this and Walter?。
He's just the most subtle guy even to this day。
He wants no attention and I remember him just telling me that this was his way of。
Tending to the needs of this world as he can。
You know and and for me as a new Christian, I didn't read that much Bible at all at that time。
I was only following what people modeled and。
So looking back on that day。
fondly, I。
Realize and I can say before you that to love our neighbor。
To welcome the stranger the person that you do not know the person that society shuns is two sides of the same coin。
Walter's casual yet intentional welcome his gracious hospitality to a man. He did not know at all。
was used by God to provide for this man's daily needs but also for a moment of refuge and。
Companionship and this was exactly the kind of hospitality and grace that was denied Mary and Joseph。
in。
First Timothy 412. This was the first scripture that was ever given to me as a Christian first Timothy。
Chapter 4 verse 12 says let no one despise you for your youthfulness。
But set an example in speech and conduct and love faith and purity。
the thoughtfulness the kindness the generosity shown by a。
17 year old teenager whereby he extended himself over a meal to a stranger in love and in。
Generosity is the exactly the kind of welcome that Jesus calls all of us to learn to exemplify。
When I tell about。
when I think about Walter I。
then think about what is actually needed to truly welcome someone which is actually not much and I can confidently say that。
this is something that all of us can do within our own capacity as。
We grow in grace as we grow within God's grace as we continue to listen to God's Word as we continue to meet in our different。
Communities and pray together and learn what it means to walk the Christian life。
all of us have to。
Reconcile with this idea that all of us have to welcome someone。
Wherever you are placed and this is a joy. This is a privileged and。
I know and I want to end with this thought. I know all of us are thinking about。
Christmas times coming what is the gift that we can give I don't want to sound too cheesy, but I absolutely believe this。
One of the most needed gifts in this world right now that you can give at any time。
is the gift of welcome that overflows from a gracious heart and。
I cannot think of any other gift any other thing that you give to someone that has so much potential to。
transform and to heal someone。
So church, can I ask us to stand and I want to pray for us I。
Don't I I don't know if this was a bit too heavy but in this season of advent I。
Want to first say that today's message is no by no ways a message of condemnation。
Because all of us in our best days on our worst days. We are like Bethlehem on。
our best days and worst days we have fears we。
Gossip, we say things that we don't mean and wish we could take back and we judge。
Prematurely harshly we do all of that and we are in a safe place。
and。
So I want to pray for us as we stand together with this heart that we are not condemned。
But today's message is one of self-reflection。
It's a call of warning。
It's a call to acknowledge that yes Lord。
We are all under the influence of sin and yes。
we do selfish things because it is within the core of our hearts and。
So father as a church。
We want to surrender to you our sinful intentions。
Father our hurtful words that condemn and that don't bring peace or edification。
Father the way we gossip the way we enjoy it。
father and the fears that cause us to do nothing for our brothers and sisters father we。
repent of these ways and。
Father we just ask that you would teach us for the rest of our days。
to welcome our neighbor our brother our sister our stranger even our enemy as you welcome us and this is。
The highest calling Jesus. This is the call and the privilege and opportunity。
that you invite us to to join you in and。
So father help us in the days ahead to build up to encourage the comfort。
With our lives with our welcome with our words with with the resources you've given us。
So Holy Spirit, would you give us courage to see what you're saying and how you're leading us Jesus?。
In your name we pray. Amen。
Church, let us respond. However way you want to bless you。
Thank you。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
