- It's so good to be back here at Year Long。
and at the beginning of a new year.。
And it is also the beginning of a new series.。
This excites me.。
I'll tell you why.。
When I was pastoring a church,。
whether it be the Vine or elsewhere,。
I used to really love kicking off new series.。
Now, I don't get the chance so much these days.。
And often, when I go to a church and I ask,。
what would you like me to speak about?。
They often say, oh, choose what's ever on your heart.。
Or the worst one, as the spirit leads you, you know.。
Today is different.。
What I love about the Vine Year Long,。
I do love this church, is that you are a community.。
Everyone say, yeah, amen.。
Anyone awake today?。
- Amen.。
- You're a family.。
As I look at you, I see a community of people。
journeying together to become more like Jesus.。
Our vision as a church is what?。
Growing big people.。
In this sermon series, we are gonna explore。
how Jesus called his first disciples。
and what this means for us。
and Jesus' call on our lives in 2026.。
Let me cut to the chase.。
Being a disciple of Jesus is a call to live。
in a distinctive way that looks different。
from our surrounding culture.。
Can I just say that again?。
Being a disciple of Jesus is a call to live。
in a distinctive way that looks different。
to our surrounding culture。
and everything that we see on social media, et cetera.。
In 2026, I believe that God is challenging us。
to live out that difference。
so that his light shines through us。
and as a result, draws others to him.。
Over 90% of people in Hong Kong don't know Jesus,。
which means that those of us who do。
need to live as true disciples.。
I do, however, have to tell you,。
there is a cost.。
There is a cost to being a follower of Jesus。
but it is through bearing this cost。
that life and discipleship truly happens.。
In this series, we wanna focus on growing。
in intimacy with Jesus。
and deepening our relationship with him.。
That's why we're having the fasts。
while also letting that transformation。
shape how we love and serve others,。
share our faith and impact the world around us.。
So without further to do, let's join Matthew。
as he tells our story.。
I'm reading from Matthew chapter four.。
Warning, it's quite a long passage。
but I wanna do it in one passage.。
Verse 12, when John heard,。
wait, sorry, when Jesus heard。
that John had been put in prison,。
he withdrew to Galilee.。
Leaving Nazareth, he went and lived in Capernaum。
which was by the lake in the area of Zebulun and Nathalie。
to fulfill what had been said through the prophet Isaiah.。
Land of Zebulun and land of Nathalie,。
the way of the sea beyond the Jordan,。
Galilee of the Gentiles,。
the people living in darkness have seen a great light.。
On those living in the land of the shadow of death,。
a light has dawned.。
From that time on, Jesus began to preach,。
repent for the kingdom of heaven has come near.。
As Jesus was walking beside the sea of Galilee,。
he saw two brothers, Simon called Peter。
and his brother Andrew.。
They were casting a net into the lake。
for they were fishermen.。
Come and follow me, Jesus said,。
and I will send you out to fish for people.。
At once they left their nets and followed him.。
Going on from there, he saw two other brothers,。
James, the son of Zebedee and his brother John.。
They were in a boat with their father Zebedee。
preparing their nets.。
Jesus called them and immediately they left their boat。
and their father and followed him.。
Jesus went throughout Galilee teaching in the synagogues,。
proclaiming the good news of the kingdom。
and healing every disease and sickness among the people.。
News about him spread all over Syria。
and people brought to him who were with various diseases,。
those suffering from severe pain, the demon possessed,。
those having seizures, the paralyzed, and he healed them.。
Large crowds from Galilee, the Decapolis, Jerusalem,。
Judea and the whole region across the Jordan followed him.。
That passage which I've just read, Matthew 4, 12 to 25,。
describes the beginning of Jesus' public ministry in Galilee。
where he moves to Capernaum, a place that Sandra and I。
visited with a team in 2019, and where he begins preaching,。
where he calls his first disciples。
and he starts healing widespread sickness,。
drawing large crowds who follow him for his teaching。
and his miraculous works.。
Now if we go back to Matthew 3, the previous chapter,。
and the early part of chapter four,。
we will see the preparation for Jesus' public ministry。
has come after his baptism by John the Baptist。
in the River Jordan and the significance。
of the Holy Spirit coming upon him,。
anointing him for ministry, and affirming a declaration。
from God the Father that says, this is my son,。
whom I love, I am well pleased.。
God would say the same thing to you today.。
This is my son, this is my daughter, I love you.。
I am so pleased with you.。
Just take a moment to take that in。
'cause you might have screwed up even this morning。
and think, how could God love me?。
You're my son, you're my daughter, I love you。
despite what you've done.。
I'm proud of you.。
Jesus was then led by the Spirit into the desert。
only to be tempted by the devil.。
The devil was questioning his identity,。
his relationship with the Father, and his purpose.。
Now Luke in his gospel tells us this,。
this is very important, that Jesus was led by the Spirit。
into the wilderness but returned from the desert。
and the temptation in the power of the Spirit.。
Led by the Spirit, returned in the power of the Spirit.。
At church there's a lesson for us there.。
We need the power of the Holy Spirit。
to be able to fulfill God's purposes.。
And in the church, we will pray for this。
at the conclusion of my sermon.。
But let's look a little more closely。
at Matthew's account in chapter four.。
The first thing we see is that Jesus relocates,。
as I've told you.。
When Jesus heard that John had been put in prison,。
he withdrew to Galilee.。
After John the Baptist is in prison,。
Jesus moves from Nazareth to Capernaum。
by the Sea of Galilee, fulfilling Isaiah's prophecy,。
it's on the screen, about light dawning in dark regions.。
In summarizing the rest of the story, we see this.。
Firstly, the call of the disciples.。
He sees fishermen, Simon, Peter, and Andrew.。
He says, "Follow me, I'll make you fishers of men."。
They immediately leave their nets.。
He also calls James and John,。
who leave their boat and their father.。
His ministry begins.。
Jesus travels throughout Galilee, teaching in synagogues,。
proclaiming the kingdom of heaven,。
and healing all kinds of diseases and sicknesses.。
Naturally, his fame spreads.。
In verse 24, the news of his healing spreads throughout Syria。
and people bring him the sick, the demon-possessed,。
the paralyzed, who he heals.。
And of course, the consequences, the crowds follow.。
In verse 25, we read that great cows from Galilee,。
the Decapolis, Jerusalem, Judea,。
and beyond the Jordan follow him.。
But the key here was that ordinary fishermen。
are called to leave their old lives to become followers,。
highlighting a call to change and to discipleship.。
Ordinary fishermen called to leave their nets。
to become followers,。
highlighting a call to change and discipleship.。
But for my sermon today,。
I wanna concentrate on just two verses。
and narrow it even further down to two words.。
Repent and follow.。
Repent and follow.。
According to Matthew, the first word。
of Jesus' first recorded sermon。
was not to introduce an illustration or tell a joke.。
It was this, repent.。
Wow, comes straight out of it, doesn't it?。
Repent for the kingdom of heaven has come near.。
And later we read, as Jesus was walking。
beside the Sea of Galilee, he saw the two brothers,。
Simon called Peter and his brother Andrew.。
They were casting a net into the lake。
for they were fishermen.。
Come follow me, Jesus said,。
and I will send you out to fish for people.。
At once they left their nets and follow him.。
Repent and follow.。
I wanna take a leaf out of Jesus' book。
and build my sermon around those two words.。
Repent and follow.。
Let's look at them a little bit more closely.。
The first word, repent.。
Let's read the Greek word metanoia,。
which means I'm walking in this direction。
and I turn and I start walking in this direction.。
That's what it means.。
In 417, Matthew 417, Jesus' command to repent。
means a radical change of mind,。
a change of heart and a change of direction.。
Moving from sin to God.。
Signaling the arrival of the kingdom of heaven.。
Requiring a turn from self-centeredness to Christ's control。
and seeing from God's perspective,。
a core theme throughout the Gospel of Matthew.。
It's not just feeling sorry for what you've done,。
but a transformative turning away from old ways。
and moving towards God's will.。
Involving spiritual renewal。
and an active transformed life.。
To give you an analogy,。
imagine you're walking from here,。
Ho-Shan-Li building, right?。
And you're walking to Yo-Ho-Mo.。
Metanoia is when you get to that wonderful place。
called Pawson Park for the dogs。
and you make a complete U-turn and you walk back.。
It's a conscious decision to turn away from sin。
and self and turn back to God,。
aligning one's life with the kingdom.。
It's a process of spiritual surgery。
where the Holy Spirit renews the mind。
and He transforms attitudes, not just behaviour.。
True behaviour involves grieving one's sinfulness。
and recognising it is an obstacle to God.。
Needing His help to overcome.。
It's a call for total life change,。
leaving behind self-centeredness to follow Christ's direction.。
Let me demonstrate.。
And to do so, I'm going for a walk.。
Yeah, I gotta tell you, my life is pretty good.。
I've got church, got family,。
got friends.。
Yeah, see those three guys over there?。
What great friends.。
We are so close, we stick together.。
We get up to a few things though,。
but I don't wanna tell you about the times。
we maybe go to one chai together, you know?。
Wow, she's beautiful.。
She's hot, don't tell my wife.。
Ah, if you wanna see some more pictures of beautiful girls,。
there's some on my phone.。
Oh, the reason I've got my phone is this,。
I use it to check my stocks.。
I decided at the beginning of the year,。
you know, I didn't have enough.。
I wanted to double my portfolio.。
So I bought those risky stocks, you know?。
I'm checking on them every five minutes。
'cause I really, really wanna get rich this year.。
Oh, as for my boss, oh my goodness, he's useless.。
You know, I just want his job.。
This year, I'm gonna try my very best hard。
for my company to get rid of him, you know?。
And I'll get his job.。
But I gotta tell you that all in all, things are okay.。
I've got my family, I've got my friends,。
I've got my church.。
What else do I want?。
And then the call comes, "Repent!"。
Pardon?。
"Repent!"。
Repent is not being sorry for being caught.。
Repent means a complete turnaround.。
I turn to Christ.。
I repent of my sins.。
They're the questions that we ask people。
who are getting baptized.。
Have you turned your life to Christ?。
Have you repented of your sins?。
To help me, I wanna ask you a very provocative question.。
What's the world's most popular religion?。
Any idea?。
What answer would you give?。
What is the world's most popular religion?。
I've thought about this, I've got a new answer.。
The world's number one religion is Jesus and.。
Now what do I mean by that?。
Well, most of us are happy to accept Jesus。
and my bank account, Jesus and my job,。
Jesus and my family, Jesus and my friends,。
or even getting more serious,。
Jesus and my sinful habits。
that I'm not prepared to already to give up.。
I need to tell you this morning,。
the metanoia means that Jesus and anything。
is not acceptable.。
It is not appropriate.。
Now why have I gone down this route?。
It is because Jesus' next command is not possible。
until we make the decision that it is Jesus plus nothing.。
In fact, he might well say to you today,。
take 100% of me or take nothing.。
Think about that for a moment.。
Do you want 100% of Jesus or nothing?。
When most of us are doing something in between.。
For his next command, and it's not a suggestion,。
is equally as blunt.。
Follow me.。
Matthew 4, 19, Jesus calls his disciples,。
say, "Follow me and I'll make you fishers of people."。
Inviting them to leave their old life,。
their fishing nets, to join him,。
to learn his ways to actively bring others。
into God's kingdom, transforming them。
from ordinary fishermen into people-focused evangelists.。
But I'm here to tell you this morning, year long,。
that this call to come, this call to follow。
and be transformed is for everyone.。
Everyone.。
Signifying a deep relationship and mission to share faith.。
Let's take a closer look at what this verse means.。
Come follow me is an immediate invitation。
to leave your current path.。
And enter into a personal relationship。
with Jesus Christ, trusting him as master.。
And if you haven't done that yet,。
I'll give you the opportunity in a moment.。
I will make you fishers of people.。
I promise that Jesus will equip and empower you。
to draw others to him, just as fishermen catch fish.。
A shift in purpose from catching fish to catching people.。
A call to evangelism and discipleship,。
spreading the gospel and building the kingdom of God.。
And lastly, it was a personal call.。
Jesus called Peter, Andrew, James, John.。
But this invitation extends to all who hear his voice today,。
requiring obedience and a changed life.。
(child yelling)。
Was that amen?。
I think so.。
(congregation laughing)。
I wanna pause and take a moment here.。
I wanna come back to my Jesus and statement.。
And the question that you're probably asking yourself.。
How can I practically respond to Jesus in a deeper way?。
How can I personally respond to Jesus' call to follow me?。
And if I've been following Jesus and,。
by the way, don't feel too bad about it。
'cause we're probably all in that boat.。
If I've been following Jesus and,。
how can I let go of the and bit?。
It's a good question.。
And I believe it's a combination。
of firstly, a personal decision,。
a personal decision to do that, a 180.。
But it's something that we need the help of the Holy Spirit.。
You can't do this on your own.。
We need the help of the Holy Spirit to obey Jesus' voice,。
to enter into his presence and relationship,。
to be transformed by him and engage in the mission。
of bringing others to him.。
So can I be practical and give you some tips?。
Number one, set aside each time, each day for prayer.。
Don't let the 21 day fast be that's it and that's done.。
Important, remembering that conversation with God。
is two way, allowing space to hear his voice.。
Secondly, commit to not only a regular Bible reading plan。
but knowing and living from the scriptures.。
Number three, intentionally living in community。
with other believers.。
Through regular attendance at church and community groups.。
And number four, and I love this, you know I love this,。
deliberately spend time with those who don't know Christ.。
Looking for ways to connect and serve.。
And lastly, equip others to follow Christ.。
Disciple the disciples.。
Choose those who will mentor you。
and those who you will mentor.。
You need both.。
Like the first disciples, we are summoned to lay down。
the nets of our desires, our securities and our fears.。
We must wrestle with what specific nets we may need to drop.。
While also clarifying that following Jesus。
may not mean quitting our jobs,。
but certainly means subordinating them to his Lordship.。
It's a conscious choice to follow his path。
rather than worldly desires.。
Which leads me to my final question.。
Are you prepared to follow him whatever the cost?。
There are brothers and sisters across the globe。
who have made this choice,。
even when it becomes a matter of life and death.。
One of my favorite movies was Sister Act,。
you remember that one?。
With Whoopi Goldberg, she poses a nun to hide in a convent。
and transforms from nightclub singer Delores Wilson。
to Sister Mary Clarence.。
And the film's most famous song is, I Will Follow Him.。
♪ I will follow him ♪。
And the famous line, ♪ Follow him wherever he may go ♪。
Let's take our cue from Sister Mary Clarence.。
I wanna finish by challenging us.。
Are we prepared to follow him whatever the cost?。
When things are not going to plan,。
following becomes a matter of resolve, persistence.。
Following is relatively easy when things are going well.。
But what about after the loss of a job,。
serious illness, a broken relationship,。
the death of a close friend or family?。
The disciples who were called to follow Jesus。
in our passage today,。
had to follow him to Calvary。
and watch the one they were following crucified on a cross.。
And legend also tells us that they too。
would be martyred, put to death for their faith.。
So I say to you today, count the cost.。
And when I ask you in a minute, as I will,。
to repent and to follow, ask yourself,。
am I willing to do so with my whole heart。
and not just a tiny part of it?。
The call is to turn,。
embrace only Jesus and follow him whatever the cost.。
Would you stand please?。
Now I'm gonna ask you to do something。
you've never done in church before.。
I'm gonna ask you to turn around and face the back.。
Everyone turn around, face the back.。
You've never done that in church before, have you?。
It's good.。
Now there is a call.。
A call is to repent.。
There may be people here who've never accepted Jesus。
as their Lord and Savior.。
Someone's brought you to church this morning.。
You've been coming along for a few weeks,。
but you've never taken this step.。
This will be a great time to do so.。
But for the rest of us,。
that little bit of play acting that I was doing。
is a little bit truer than we think.。
We all have things in our life that we hang on to,。
Jesus and.。
Even the things which are good.。
Even good like family and friends.。
For us as pastors, it can even be Jesus in a church。
we hang on to.。
Jesus wants you now to turn。
and repent and decide to follow him.。
I'd love to pray for you.。
And if you're prepared to do that,。
I'm gonna invite you now on the count of three。
to turn around, face me,。
and then we're gonna pray together.。
Ready?。
One, two, three.。
Repent and turn, repent and turn, thank you.。
There's nothing against anyone who hasn't turned,。
by the way, that's your decision as well.。
Respect that.。
The call now is to follow him.。
And I've gotta tell you,。
you can make a decision to follow him today,。
and that's the first thing.。
But to do it in your own strength,。
you haven't got a chance.。
We're human.。
So we need God's Holy Spirit.。
I'm gonna ask you just if you feel comfortable,。
put your hands in front of you.。
Jesus, I've made a choice today。
that I'm gonna follow you.。
I know it will cost me something,。
it costs you everything.。
I'm prepared to give you my everything。
so that I can be your disciple.。
Jesus, I realize I am weak.。
I need your strength.。
Holy Spirit, will you come and fill me now?。
(gentle music)。
Let's just have a moment, just waiting on God。
as he comes by his Spirit to fill us,。
to give us the strength to follow him.。
We've made that decision to turn。
from what we know is not of him.。
Are we gonna mess up again?。
Yeah, of course we will.。
We're humans.。
But Lord, today I've made a choice to follow you。
and by your Spirit,。
continue to fill me day by day。
so I can live a life that is pleasing to you。
and a life that deep down I've always wanted to live.。
Fill me a fresh light.。
(gentle music)。
And I just wanna think of the people outside this church,。
the 90% of people,。
that Lord, that you would fill me enough。
that I would overflow.。
The people in the restaurant where I have lunch with today,。
the people I sit next to on the MTR or the bus,。
the people I meet at work tomorrow, at school,。
that your Holy Spirit。
would just fill me to overflowing.。
It's a wonderful time in the church。
when we just wait on God.。
He's here by His Spirit.。
Come Holy Spirit, fill us afresh.。
(praying in a foreign language)。
(gentle music)。
We're gonna do one more thing together。
and this will be together.。
We're gonna sing together,。
"I have decided to follow Jesus."。
I have decided to follow Jesus.。
(gentle music)。
No turning back.。
No turning back.。
You've probably sung this song hundreds of times.。
