(soft music)。
The Father would remind you this morning。
that His mighty right arm,。
His mighty right arm is stretched out towards you.。
Always is a symbol of strength, of victory.。
It's the arm that a warrior would have the sword in.。
And the Lord is saying,。
"I see the need that you have at this time."。
And I feel like for many of us in this room,。
it's an emotional need.。
And the Father would say,。
"My mighty right arm is extended towards you now."。
And there's this beautiful moment in Nehemiah。
as he's rebuilding the wall。
and he's come under such attack from those。
that were trying to resist the rebuilding。
of the walls of Jerusalem.。
In chapter six, Nehemiah turns to the Father。
and he says, "Lord, strengthen my hands."。
And I feel just in the power of the Holy Spirit。
for you here this morning, that that's a prayer for you.。
And so if your hands are open。
and if you're in need of the mighty right arm of God。
to do battle for you,。
I wonder whether you would just pray that prayer。
in your heart now.。
Lord, strengthen my hands, strengthen my heart,。
strengthen my mind, strengthen my emotions,。
strengthen my relationships, strengthen my business,。
strengthen the things that I don't have the ability。
to strengthen, Father, would you strengthen me?。
Father, you've put a task,。
you've put something before each one of us,。
just like you put before Nehemiah a noble task.。
And Lord, I wanna pray for anybody in this room。
that's wanting to shrink back,。
that perhaps opposition or perhaps word spoken。
or perhaps resistance is causing people in this room。
to wanna put the tools down。
and to give up on the building that God has called you to do.。
We just say in the name of Jesus over you,。
that the Father's mighty right arm is here to save,。
it's here to move on your behalf,。
and he will strengthen you for the resilience。
and the hope and the life that he wants to fill you in.。
The Lord would say, I see you.。
I see you, the wholeness of you.。
I see your coming and your going.。
You have nothing to fear, for you are in my gaze.。
My light shines upon you.。
You have nothing to fear.。
So as I called to Joshua, so I called you,。
be strong and courageous.。
Be strong and courageous.。
Allow my spirit to fill you, to strengthen your hands.。
Do not give up, for it is your time to rise.。
It is your time to wake.。
It is your time to move.。
Don't hold back.。
For the same spirit, the Bible says,。
that raised Christ from the dead is now in you.。
And so I wanna pray that you would feel。
as we open God's word together here this morning,。
you would feel the calling of Christ upon you again.。
For those of you that have been feeling weak,。
you will feel strong.。
For those that have been overwhelmed, you'll be comforted.。
For those that have felt to shrink back in this season,。
you will feel the Holy Spirit's wind behind your back.。
Lord, I pray for a releasing of your people。
as we open your word together here this morning.。
Holy Spirit, come.。
Holy Spirit, come.。
We thank you for this, Lord.。
And to you be the glory, we pray, in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, amen, amen.。
Hey, can we thank our worship team?。
(congregation applauding)。
Well, welcome to the Vine.。
If this is your relative first time with us,。
we're so glad you're here.。
And we know that we got a full overflow as well.。
Outside and people joining us online from around the world.。
We're so glad you're here.。
And isn't it wonderful to be in a crazy city like Hong Kong。
and just have a moment where we can go,。
just me, just me?。
Thank you.。
Or we can just take the foot off the gas for a moment。
and just kind of go, thank you, Lord.。
Thanks for being with us.。
I wonder if you've ever experienced。
the absolute blackness of the darkness of night.。
I wonder if you've ever been in a situation。
where you've been in the complete darkness of an evening。
or a complete darkness of a night.。
If you're anything like me and you grew up here in Hong Kong。
then chances are you haven't.。
Because we live in a city, don't we, that's 24/7?。
A city that is filled with the ambient neon light pollution。
that it is.。
Whenever we go to bed at night,。
we may draw the curtains and turn off the lights。
in our house, but it feels like there's this other big light。
glowing out there.。
And I grew up in this city。
and I've always had ambient light around me always.。
And I've never really known the trueness。
of what darkness is like.。
I've just gotten used to sleeping with the glow of a city。
that is 24/7, that never sleeps.。
But this all changed when my wife invited me。
to come and visit her and her family。
in their small little town in New Zealand.。
New Zealand that doesn't have any neon lights.。
And I remember that first night I had gone to bed,。
I was exhausted, I mean, traveled down and was tired.。
And I got into bed and I had a little side lamp on。
and I was reading my book,。
but I couldn't read for very long, I was super tired,。
put the book down.。
I turned the light out and I freaked out.。
Because for the first time,。
literally probably the first time in my life,。
I was finally in a place。
where there was no light pollution at all.。
And suddenly I was in darkness, like complete darkness.。
It was like, (screams)。
like I really didn't like it, it filled me with fear.。
There was actually no difference in that room。
as I'm lying in that bed。
between having my eyes open or my eyes closed.。
It was completely black either way.。
I remember lying there,。
putting my hand in front of my face like this。
just to make sure I still had limbs on me.。
'Cause I could not literally see my hand。
right in front of my face.。
And I remember lying there thinking,。
I'm glad I'm here visiting my beautiful wife and her family,。
but I can't sleep in darkness.。
It's like I needed like some ambient light somewhere。
to kind of lull me into a place of being able to sleep.。
The darkness was total and the darkness was uncomfortable.。
I needed some light.。
As Paul continues this incredible letter。
to the church in Ephesus that we've been going through。
as a church over the last number of weeks,。
he comes to a section of it, chapters five and six,。
where he has some of the strongest things。
that he wants to say to his church community.。
Stuff that's actually gonna be kind of difficult。
for them to hear.。
Stuff that's gonna shake up a few things amongst them。
and stuff that's gonna sober them。
in terms of how they think about church。
and life and community.。
And Paul's doing this off the back。
of what Pastor Tim shared with us last week。
about this idea of taking off the old self,。
which is being corrupted by a deceit。
and our deceitful desires and putting on the new self。
that is filled with freedom and love。
and the glory of God and holiness.。
And Paul's just taught them,。
look, I want you to take off the old stuff,。
put on the new stuff.。
And then from chapters five and six,。
he basically unpacks what it is。
that he wants them to take off。
and what it is that they can now put on.。
And the passage that we're looking at here this morning,。
I think is perhaps the hardest things。
that he has to say to his church.。
He's got some pretty tough stuff to say to them。
in these verses that we're looking at.。
But everything we've seen of Paul so far in this letter。
is important for us to remember.。
Paul has an incredible pastoral heart.。
I mean, he loves the people of his church so much.。
We've seen this throughout the letter, haven't we?。
He's just spent three chapters, chapters one to three,。
unpacking Christ and what Christ has done。
and the grace that Christ has done。
to pay the price for our sins。
and to bring us into new life.。
He's then at the end of chapter three,。
prayed that beautiful prayer of love.。
Oh, church, I wish that you would be strengthened。
from within you with the power of the Spirit,。
that you would know the height, depth, and width。
and the length of love,。
that love that surpasses understanding。
would be inside of you.。
He said, I want you to know love.。
And then he started chapter four with,。
hey, I want you to now live a life that's worthy。
of all the things that we've just talked about。
in the first three chapters.。
And I want you as a church body,。
as a Christian community to find unity together。
in the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God.。
He's just poured all that out.。
And now he's getting to the point。
where really the rubber hits the road.。
And he's saying to the church,。
but there's still this going on inside of you.。
Despite all the stuff that we've seen,。
there's still this, but his pastoral heart is like,。
how do I explain this in a way。
that number one, sobers you。
and helps you to understand the sin。
that is still at work in you。
and leads you to deal with that,。
but equally inspire you,。
lift you up so that you're living better.。
You're desiring to live in a way。
that you're not currently living.。
He's like, how do I do this?。
Sober you, inspire you.。
And so here's what he decides to do.。
He decides to dig into the rich history,。
biblical history of the metaphor of darkness and light。
in order to help his church to understand。
how they need to take off.。
But actually Christ has already done。
and placed upon them so much.。
And as I unpack this metaphor that Paul brings us。
of darkness and light with you today, here's my prayer.。
I feel in my spirit that many of us here, myself included,。
where it doesn't make a difference。
whether our eyes are open or our eyes are closed,。
we're still seeing darkness.。
We're really struggling to see the future for ourselves.。
We're struggling perhaps to see the future for our city.。
We're struggling perhaps to see anything good at all.。
And when we look around the world, we see so much darkness。
and it's almost like there's a hand in front of us,。
but we cannot see it.。
Some of you right now are currently。
in a posture of blindness.。
And my prayer as we open up these passages today。
is that something would click for you.。
Something would shift in your spirit。
and you would go from darkness to light.。
Let me read this to you from Ephesians 5,。
starting in verse three.。
Listen to these strong words of the Apostle Paul,。
but from a pastoral heart for his church.。
He says, "But among you, there must not even be a hint。
of sexual immorality or of any kind of impurity or of greed。
because these are improper for God's people.。
Nor should there be obscenity, foolish talk。
or coarse joking, which are out of place,。
but rather thanksgiving.。
For of this you can be sure, no immoral, impure。
or greedy person, such a person as an idolater,。
has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.。
So let no one deceive you with empty words.。
And because of such things, God's wrath comes。
on those who are disobedient.。
For you were once darkness,。
but now you are light in the Lord.。
So live as children of light,。
for the fruit of light consists in all goodness。
and justice and truth.。
And so find out what pleases the Lord.。
Have nothing to do with the fruitless deeds of darkness,。
but rather expose them.。
For it is shameful to even mention。
what the disobedient do in secret,。
but everything exposed by the light becomes visible。
and everything illuminated becomes a light."。
This is why it says, "Wake up, O sleeper,。
rise from the dead and Christ will shine on you."。
So be very careful then how you live,。
not as unwise, but as wise,。
making the most of every opportunity。
because the days are dark, they are evil.。
It's really majestic what Paul does here.。
He's not trying to win friends.。
He's trying to be really honest。
and direct with his community.。
And there's this beautiful flow in what he's teaching here.。
He starts out by addressing some of that deep stuff。
that he can see still at work with his people,。
but then he moves them to think about this metaphor。
of darkness and light.。
And in that, he calls them to now live in a new way,。
to live, and I love this phrase, as children of light.。
So he's got some strong things to say。
about the sin and their brokenness,。
but he's speaking to them as children。
and he's giving them a new perspective。
on how they can now live their lives.。
I wanna take you through this flow。
and hopefully as we do so,。
something will speak into your soul here.。
Notice the sin list that he provides.。
It's not an exhaustive list,。
but I think he's chosen specific sins。
that were relevant for this particular community.。
Things like the sexual immorality, the greed,。
there's a whole bunch of them that I've highlighted。
on the screen there for you to see.。
What I want you to see most importantly。
is that Paul is talking about not just general things.。
Hey, don't do these things.。
He's saying, these things are at work within you。
and I'm pointing them out for one very important reason.。
These particular sins that he's highlighting,。
that he sees at work in his body,。
these sins, he's saying basically,。
are sins that don't just break your relationship。
with your father, with God,。
but it also breaks your relationship with one another.。
Every single one of these is about breaking that community。
that he's just prayed for them。
at the end of chapter three that they would have。
and he should have said at the beginning of chapter four。
that unity that they can find。
in the knowledge and the faith of God.。
These things he's saying breaks everything。
that we've been talking about in the letter so far.。
Every single one of these are basically selfish acts。
that you do at the expense of the other.。
The sexually immoral,。
those that are sexually in immorality, he says,。
what you're doing is you're seeking pleasure for yourself。
even at the expense of the people around you.。
He talks about greed.。
Greed by its very definition is the hoarding of resources。
so that you gain, again, at the expense of the other.。
He talks about harsh language, coarse joking.。
Again, it's all around this idea。
of we shouldn't be slandering each other.。
We shouldn't be gossiping about each other.。
We shouldn't be making fun of one another.。
That just breaks disunity, but God's called us to unity.。
Do you see this?。
And the reason why this is important。
is because he actually does something。
incredibly theological.。
Let me show you this from verse five.。
He says, "For this you can be sure,。
no immoral, impure, or greedy person,。
such a person is an idolater,。
has an inheritance in the kingdom of God。
or the kingdom of Christ."。
It's really important you see something here.。
Paul says, look, when you're doing sins,。
that breaks the unity and community。
that you can have as the body,。
here's ultimately what you're doing.。
You're doing idolatry,。
and it's idolatry not worshiping other gods.。
It's idolatry making yourself God.。
Come on, church, this is super important。
that you track with this.。
'Cause what he's saying, something that's very deep here,。
this is the original sin that happened in the garden.。
If you go back to Genesis chapter three,。
and you see Adam and Eve there,。
and you see Satan coming in that form of the snake。
and speaking to Adam and Eve,。
he basically says this, Satan, he said,。
God told you not to eat of this fruit.。
Well, that's because God doesn't want you。
to become like him.。
But if you eat of that fruit, you'll become like him,。
knowing good and evil.。
And Adam and Eve take the fruit。
because they've decided, here's the temptation,。
they've decided they're not comfortable anymore。
being made in the image of God, Genesis one and two.。
They now want to be like God.。
They wanna be equal to God.。
So at the heart of the very first sin。
is this desire to be a peer with God.。
And what Paul is saying is that the ultimate purpose。
of all sin is to exchange your identity。
from being a child of God to trying to be a peer with God.。
That's ultimately what all sin does.。
It's trying to shift you away from your right relationship。
with your father in heaven and cause you to think。
that you can be on the same level.。
So when we place ourselves at the center of our world。
through whatever acts we might do in order to do that,。
we become greedy.。
When we say my pleasure is more important。
than anyone else's.。
What Paul's saying is you're idle worshiping yourself。
and that is the roots of all sin.。
And when you do that,。
you're breaking the unity amongst yourselves.。
Are you tracking with this?。
This is why he uses the word in verse five,。
the word inheritance.。
He says, if you live that way, if you act that way,。
you will lose the inheritance that you have in Christ Jesus.。
You have no inheritance.。
Now that's a very interesting word he uses here.。
He uses this word on purpose because notice it,。
if your original perspective and relationship。
and identity is a child, so you're here,。
you're a child of God.。
And if sin causes you to try to become a peer of God,。
what he's saying is you no longer see yourself。
as his family.。
You never see yourself anymore as a son and daughter.。
You think you're equal with him.。
Well, you're gonna lose your inheritance。
because inheritance is a family thing, isn't it?。
Inheritance happens when you're within a family.。
And he's saying, look, you've decided through your sin,。
through the way you're acting to try to be a peer of God.。
So you're gonna lose out on your inheritance.。
And Paul is crying out to his church,。
don't lose the inheritance that Christ has paid。
an incredible price for on the cross.。
Your salvation, your hope, your forgiveness,。
your mercy, your grace, your flourishing, your shalom,。
be made now into his image。
so that you can become the fullness of him,。
as he's just said in chapter four,。
the wholeness of the fullness of Christ.。
He's like, you'll lose all of that。
if you think you're no longer part of God's family,。
but you wanna try to be God himself.。
And he's like, that is not the way to go.。
And as Paul's unpacking this,。
he's inviting his church to shift something within them,。
just to say, I don't want to lose my identity。
as a child of God.。
That is the primary thing,。
because in that perspective of being a child,。
it is not me-centered, it is other-centered.。
Christ, first and foremost, I submit myself to him.。
And Paul said, that's how we flourish.。
That's our inheritance in the kingdom of Christ.。
And as your pastor here,。
I wanna pick up a little bit of Paul's pastoral heart。
for his community in Ephesus.。
And I wanna say over you,。
I do not want you to lose the inheritance。
that you have in Christ.。
And so here's what I implore of you.。
Enjoy the role of repentance.。
When we think about repentance in the church,。
so often we make it such a heavy topic.。
We make it such a weighty thing.。
We make it such a like, oh my gosh,。
I've gotta confess and repent.。
And Paul's saying, you should find joy,。
joy in coming before Christ and offering your life。
and saying there's some things inside of me。
that I'm not proud of, and I repent, I confess.。
I ask for your forgiveness,。
because I'm tired of trying to be like you.。
I don't wanna disqualify myself。
from the inheritance that comes in Christ.。
My repentance is my ticket to my inheritance.。
And as I repent and confess and bring it to you,。
I don't do so in a heaviness, I do so in a soberness.。
There's a sober reality to the brokenness in me.。
I bring that to you, but I do in the joy。
of knowing that you've already forgiven me on the cross。
and the joy to know that you're now gonna fill me afresh。
with your spirit and your love,。
and that I'm gonna become your child again,。
and the inheritance of your goodness is mine.。
So I wanna encourage you.。
This message speaks to you at all today。
about some of the stuff that's involved in you.。
May I invite you to the joy of repentance。
that brings you back into right relationship with him.。
It is this movement of repentance。
and the shift of our identities。
that brings Paul to the part where he starts to talk。
about the metaphor of darkness and light.。
Paul's of course not the first person。
to speak about this metaphor.。
In fact, it's a biblical metaphor。
throughout the whole of redemptive history.。
The Bible in fact starts Genesis 1, verses 1 and 2。
in a perspective of darkness and light.。
But we learn there that God created the world,。
the heavens and the earth,。
and it says that the world was formless and void。
and darkness covered its depths.。
So there is the starting point of darkness in scripture.。
And then in verse 3, we have the first moment。
where God speaks.。
And the very first word God says is,。
"Let there be light."。
Four words, one command, and everything changes.。
And so in the first three verses of the Bible,。
you get the gospel.。
You get a world that is dark, separated, formless and void,。
and you got a God who decides to make a difference in it.。
A God who says, "I don't want you to remain in darkness.。
"I don't want what I've created to be in darkness."。
And he says, "Let there be light."。
And then in the light of that creative moment,。
the rest of creation happens,。
all the way up to the culmination of us as human beings,。
created in his image,。
made in the light of Christ and God himself.。
Which is really interesting because then in Genesis 3,。
Adam and Eve decide to go back into darkness.。
Note that, we decided to go back into darkness.。
In taking of that fruit that we've just been talking about,。
in becoming a peer with God,。
or thinking that they can become a peer with God,。
shame comes on them.。
And what does darkness do?。
Sorry, what does sin do?。
Sin drives Adam and Eve back into darkness.。
They cover themselves.。
They retreat from the presence of God,。
the light of God's presence,。
as God walks in the corners of the evening in the garden.。
They're so afraid of the light of his presence now,。
that they now retreat,。
and they go back into a place of darkness,。
covering their shame.。
And for the rest of the biblical narrative,。
the story is basically this,。
can humanity ever know what it is。
to be in the presence of light again?。
Can we ever know what the light of God is for us?。
Can we ever have that relationship like Adam and Eve had。
before they fell in chapter three?。
Can we know what Genesis 1 and 2?。
Can we find that place of Shalom,。
the beautiful Jewish concept,。
of what it is to know that everything is right。
as it should be, completeness, wholeness, perfection?。
Our soul writes before God again.。
Towards the end of the Old Testament narrative,。
the prophets begin to speak,。
and to use this metaphor of darkness and light,。
to basically begin to speak into Israel,。
and say a time is coming in the future,。
where God will step in,。
and this messianic hope begins to build。
towards the end of the Old Testament.。
The prophets begin to speak into this metaphor,。
perhaps most famously, Isaiah,。
and I want you to have a look at some of the passages here。
that Isaiah begins to speak.。
The people walking in darkness have seen a great light.。
The Lord will turn the darkness into light before his people.。
In the future, the Lord will be your everlasting light,。
and your days of sorrow will end,。
and Isaiah starts to point forward。
to this messianic hope that one would step in,。
one of God, not of us,。
one who would step in into the fullness of that,。
and take what is dark right now,。
like in Genesis verses one and two,。
take that darkness and say, let there be light.。
And of course, for us Christians,。
as we consider who Christ is in the light of this,。
we understand Christ as the messianic fulfillment。
of that moment,。
and indeed, the whole of the New Testament。
picks up that idea,。
and actually drives the metaphor forward even more.。
So the gospel writers speak of it.。
Look at how John speaks about it here.。
He shines in the darkness,。
and the darkness has not overcome it.。
He is the true light that gives light to everyone.。
And then Jesus himself takes on this metaphor from Isaiah.。
Have a look at John 8, 12.。
I am the light of the world,。
and whoever follows me will never walk in darkness,。
but will have the light of life.。
I love this one over here from later on in John.。
You are going to have the light.。
This is Jesus speaking.。
You're going to have the light just a little while longer。
while you have the light.。
Walk while you have the light。
before darkness overtakes you.。
Believe in the light。
so that you may become children of light.。
Jesus has taught this to his disciples.。
Paul picks up on this idea of being children of light,。
and he brings it into his church as well.。
And so all of this redemptive history。
of biblical understanding of darkness and light。
comes to its fulfillment in Christ,。
and then Paul takes that,。
and he brings it into the very lives of his people.。
Notice how he does this in verse eight.。
I love this.。
He says, "For you were once darkness,。
"but now you are light in the Lord."。
I want you to see something really important in this verse.。
Paul does not say, "For you were once in darkness,。
"and you are now in the light of the Lord,"。
which I think is so often how we think of it。
when we hear this passage,。
and I think how we think about our Christian faith,。
as in like, I'm just sort of like neutral,。
and sometimes I find myself in darkness,。
and sometimes I find myself in light.。
As Christians, we think we're neutral,。
but if life happens, or if I drink a little bit too much,。
or if I stumble onto that website,。
I'm in darkness for a while.。
But if I have a good week, and I pray well,。
and I try hard, and I come to church regularly,。
I find myself in the light.。
And we think that we are neutral,。
and it's just about the place that we're in。
in terms of our faith.。
Paul looks at that thinking,。
and he says, "That's faulty thinking."。
"You're not neutral," he's saying.。
And it's not about the place you're in.。
You need to understand you were darkness.。
The totality of darkness was who you were.。
It wasn't like you were neutral,。
and you just happened to be surrounded by darkness.。
"You were darkness itself," he says.。
Strong words.。
Because he's wanting you to understand what sin does.。
The wages of sin is what?。
Death.。
And he's spoken to his church, hasn't he,。
already in chapter two, and he says,。
"When you were in your sins, you were what?。
"Asleep?"。
No, he didn't say that.。
He said, "When you were in your sins, you were dead."。
Like, literally dead.。
So he sees sin in that way.。
So you are not in sin, you were sin, he's saying.。
You were not in darkness, you were darkness.。
You were the separation, you were the death.。
And that's a sobering thing for him to teach his church.。
It's a hard thing for us to think。
because we like to remain neutral.。
We like to think that we're neutral people,。
and it's just whether we're in one thing or in the other.。
And Paul says, "No, no, no.。
"If you think sin is that way,。
"you will never have a sober understanding。
"of the power of sin."。
Come on, church.。
If you think that way, you will always think,。
"Well, if I just try a little bit harder,。
"or if I get a little bit more faithful,。
"or read a little bit more of my Bible,。
"I'm gonna be okay."。
And Paul's like, "Sin is death.。
"Sin is darkness.。
"And when we're in sin, we are actually darkness."。
We're not in it, we are the darkness.。
Now, as sobering as that is, he then says,。
"But guess what?。
"Now that you're in Christ, you are the light."。
In other words, it's not a temporary location for you,。
and you're moving in and out.。
He's saying, "Now you are light.。
"You are the light of the world."。
It's funny 'cause Jesus calls himself the light of the world,。
but then later on, he says to the disciples,。
"You're the light of the world."。
And this is what Paul's picking up on here.。
He's saying, "You were darkness, now you are light,"。
which is why he says this.。
He says, "Live as children of light."。
He says, "Live a life like this.。
"Live with boldness and courage.。
"Live with hope and faith.。
"Live as if the light really is in you,。
"that you are this light in the world."。
He's like, "I want you to live like that."。
And the question that the church in Ephesus。
should have asked, and I think we need to ask, is this.。
How do I live as children of light。
in a world that continues to be so filled with darkness?。
That's an important question for us at the Vine.。
How do we want to, how are we able to live。
as children of light in a world。
that is still so filled with darkness?。
Paul offers two answers to that question.。
It's found in verses 13 and 14.。
Let me read these verses.。
These are beautiful to me.。
He says this, "But everything exposed。
"by the light becomes visible,。
"and everything illuminated becomes a light."。
I'm gonna read that again.。
"But everything exposed by the light becomes visible,。
"and everything illuminated becomes a light."。
He's like, "Do you want to know how it is。
"that you're able to walk as a child of light?。
"First of all, you have to understand。
"that you could not do anything because you were darkness.。
"God had to step in and do it, first of all, for you.。
"Everything that is exposed by the light becomes visible."。
Light's this fascinating thing.。
If you look at it scientifically,。
essentially a definition of what light is。
is it's electromagnetic radiation of a wavelength。
that is visible to the human eye.。
Write that down in your notes.。
That's very important.。
(audience laughing)。
And here's the crazy thing.。
It is about 400 to 700 nanometers in size.。
Very, very, very, very small.。
And it travels at one of the fastest things it can travel.。
It travels at 182, 868 miles per second.。
Not miles per hour, miles per second.。
So what light does is it goes out。
and it bounces off of the surface of the thing.。
Look around you right now.。
Okay, you can see the people in this room。
because there is some light in this room,。
and that electromagnetic radiation is bouncing。
off of the people around you, enabling you to see them.。
But here's the reality.。
We're blind or we're in darkness。
when actually that electromagnetic radiation。
of a wavelength is removed.。
When light is removed, we have no ability。
to bounce off of one another。
to actually look at each other and see.。
So Paul, when he's talking about those sins。
of sexual morality and greed and brokenness,。
what he's basically saying is you've got all this stuff。
that's at work in you, and what that's causing you to do。
is become blind to one another.。
You can't see each other, nor can you see God。
because you're now in an environment。
where you are completely in the dark, he's saying,。
because it has cut out all of the light,。
and you cannot see anymore.。
And this is a sobering thing.。
I want you to feel this.。
I know that there's still a little bit。
of ambient light in here.。
We can't make this place completely dark。
because of the exit signs and a whole bunch of other things,。
but I want you to kind of look around as well.。
We can't see each other as clearly anymore.。
And basically what Paul's teaching is,。
this is what sin does.。
It causes you to become blind.。
It's like you can't see your hand in front of your face,。
and there's nothing you can do to change that.。
But then, because God so loved the world,。
here's what he does.。
In Christ, he basically says this,。
"Let there be light, and there was light."。
So the light, yeah.。
(congregation applauding)。
I love this.。
I love this.。
Half of you were sitting there。
throughout the whole service going,。
"Why have they not fixed that horrible thing。
that's hanging in the middle of the room?"。
That's Jesus right there.。
But the light comes.。
God brings this light.。
Now, I want you to notice the room again.。
Like, we can begin to see each other again.。
Not only that, but we can begin to see ourselves.。
See, Paul says everything is exposed by the light。
that makes everything visible.。
So Jesus makes everything visible.。
Everything inside of me that is broken and dark,。
the darkness, my darkness, the fact that I am darkness,。
I can only tell that when the light shines.。
Otherwise, I'm ignorant.。
Otherwise, I'm blind to it.。
I've got the hand in front of my face, and I can't see it.。
But Christ, as he comes with the light,。
it changes everything within me,。
and I can begin to go, "Hang on a sec.。
There is the brokenness.。
There is the darkness.。
There is the sin, and I need to somehow deal with that."。
The light, Paul says, makes everything visible.。
It exposes it, he says.。
But then he says something that is really key.。
He then says, "Not only does the light of Christ。
enable you to begin to see yourself。
as you should see yourself,。
and see one another as we should see one another,"。
he then says, and this is really important,。
"Everything that is illuminated becomes a light."。
He uses this wonderful word,。
this idea of something being illuminated.。
It's a beautiful phrase for salvation.。
It's one of the only times Paul uses it。
to speak of our salvation.。
He says, "Everything that becomes illuminated,"。
in other words, everything that becomes illuminated。
by the light, he says, "It's not just," note this,。
"It's not just so that you can see the darkness, finally,。
and do something about it.。
It's not just so that you can kind of connect。
with one another."。
What he's also saying is, you've got to understand。
that there's something else also at play here, right?。
And what else is at play is that every one of us。
has the potential to become this kind of light。
that Christ has, and that light that Christ wants to give us.。
We have this potential sitting within us.。
But when we're in darkness, when we are the darkness,。
that potential is not there at all.。
And we're walking around like this, are you with me?。
But Paul says, first of all, Jesus' light illuminates。
everything for us so that we can realize。
that there's nothing going on here.。
But then he says, "Everything, though, that is illuminated。
becomes a light."。
In other words, in our relationship with Christ,。
we then become the light.。
It's like Paul is saying, you've got to understand。
that Christ illuminates everything,。
but everything that becomes illuminated becomes a light.。
(congregation exclaims)。
Right?。
(congregation applauds)。
And because it's a light, it's not our light, remember?。
Our light, it would be like this, right?。
Our light, we have no light, but when we come。
into relationship with the light, we bring his light now.。
And Paul says, "You were once darkness, now you're light."。
So then he says, "Live as children of light."。
Like take the light into the darker places around you。
and begin to shine that light so that the darkness。
in people and the darkness around can be seen,。
not in a way of judging them.。
He uses this word exposed.。
I love this word exposed.。
It literally means to prove with evidence.。
Paul's saying, "Your job is not to go to the dark places."。
I'm gonna go to the really dark places out here somewhere.。
This is real, these guys are very, I'm coming here.。
"Your job is not to go to the really dark places。
and start bashing people with the light."。
You know, start like kind of slandering them。
and, "Oh, you guys are terrible.。
Can't you see how you're living your life?。
Oh, you guys suck."。
(groans)。
He's saying, "Prove with evidence that your light shines."。
What does that mean?。
Well, he actually defines it.。
He says, "For the fruit of those who are light。
is goodness, justice, and truth."。
The things that we do and the ways that we live。
reflects the light of Christ that is within us.。
We don't have to go wagging our fingers.。
We just go, "Check this out.。
Like, wouldn't you wanna be a part of this?。
Wouldn't you want that dead thing。
that's in you to be alive again?。
Like, if it got dead, wouldn't you wanna make it?"。
Oh, darn it.。
(congregation laughing)。
Okay, okay.。
So, but wouldn't you wanna make it alive again, right?。
And he's like, "That's the invitation in this passage."。
Paul is not saying, "Hey, wag your finger in judgment."。
He's saying, "Invite people to redemption.。
Live your light like that."。
I love this.。
Jesus says it this way in Matthew.。
I love this passage from Christ.。
He says it this way.。
He says, "Let your light shine before all people。
that they may see your good deeds。
and praise your Father in heaven."。
Not praise you.。
Praise your Father in heaven.。
They will see your good deeds.。
I think church history has shown us this beautifully.。
I think of people like John and Charles Wesley。
who took the light of Christ that was within them。
to the darkness of London in the mid 1700s。
and brought revival to that land.。
I think of William Wilberforce and the Clapham sect。
in the late 1700s,。
who took the light of Christ that was within them。
and brought it to the darkness of slavery。
and over a 25 year long journey and battle。
was able to see that abolished in the British empire.。
I think of Amy Carmichael,。
who took the light that God had given her。
in the early 1900s and traveled to India,。
to the North of India。
and actually stood against the darkness。
of child exploitation and child abuse。
in the Hindu temples of that time.。
I think of Martin Luther King Jr. in the 60s,。
more closer perhaps to us,。
who saw the darkness of injustice and decided,。
and racism and decided to make a difference about it。
and brought the light that was in him。
to bear on a whole nation.。
And Paul is writing this and he's saying,。
"I want you to live as children of light。
because you're not darkness, you are light,。
but there is still darkness.。
And I want you to go in the goodness。
and in that justice and in that truth。
that is placed inside of you because of the light。
and shine that light brightly."。
This is why he says this beautiful thing right here.。
He says this beautiful thing here.。
He says, this is why it says,。
"Wake up, O sleeper, rise from the dead。
and Christ will shine on you."。
This is like Paul, by the way,。
this is not a quote from scripture.。
This is not Paul kind of basically saying something like,。
oh, by the way, it says in Jeremiah this.。
Actually, scholars think what he's doing here。
is quoting from an early Christian hymn。
that was active in the church at the time.。
So this is like him quoting a worship song.。
And he stands before the church and goes,。
"Don't you know that we sing this?。
Don't you know that we say this to each other?。
Wake up, O sleeper."。
That's exactly what he's saying.。
He's saying, "You've got the light of Christ in you.。
Live as a child of the light.。
Wake up."。
He's saying, "Wake up, church.。
How can you live like you are living right now。
in all that brokenness that dims your light。
and causes separation?。
No, deal with your sin, come into repentance,。
receive the light that you truly are in Him,。
and then live in that light."。
It's like Paul is kind of saying,。
"Where are those who are willing to stand up。
for goodness, justice, and truth?。
May your good deed shine before all people。
and may they come to know Him."。
And I stand before us today.。
And I think about this so often.。
I'm like, "Where are the Amy Carmichael's of our time?。
Where's the Martin Luther King Jr.?。
Where's the John and Charles Wesley?"。
Like, where is it within the church in Hong Kong?。
Where is it within us?。
Well, in our little bit,。
maybe we're not gonna change the world or change society,。
but maybe there's a relationship。
that's broken in our workplace.。
Maybe there's someone that we know who needs forgiveness.。
Maybe there's someone who's desperately lonely。
and we could befriend them.。
I don't know how it might look for you,。
but you've got the light.。
So live as a child of light.。
Wake up.。
Take a hold of what it is that Christ has placed。
inside of you, goodness and justice and truth,。
and be that in whatever darkness He has placed you in.。
And when we do this,。
we come to see light like we've never seen it before.。
May you let your light shine.。
May you do it proudly with courage and boldness.。
And may we see the darkness around us become light.。
Amen.。
(congregation applauding)。
I wonder if you could stand with me。
and I would love to pray for you.。
And I wonder whether you just,。
as you quieten your eyes,。
quieten your eyes, that's a bit weird.。
As you close your eyes, quieten your heart.。
I know we're running a bit long, but I just wanna,。
there's so many of us who have been called。
to shine our light and it's not always an easy thing to do.。
I wanna just invite you just to quieten your heart now.。
(gentle music)。
For some of you in this room,。
what is really important for you today is repentance.。
And like I've said in the message,。
this is not something you have to fear.。
It doesn't have to be heavy.。
But that recognition, I'm trying to become a peer of yours,。
even though maybe I've never said it that way,。
but I'm actually really self-centered.。
Actually, everything is kind of about me.。
And I think the Lord wants to break self-centeredness。
out of us as a community.。
And that will require repentance.。
But it's the joy of that,。
knowing that our relationship has been shifted。
from that peer of God to a child of God again.。
And I think for some of you here,。
that's a really important response for you.。
To respond in that openness。
of what it is to bring your confession。
and repentance to Him.。
Some of you just need to say,。
"I don't wanna be your peer.。
"I don't want the universe to revolve around me.。
"I don't want my self-centeredness。
"to be the main thing in my life.。
"I want you to be the main thing in my life.。
"I need to repent."。
And I can see that that's manifesting。
in the way I treat others.。
It's manifesting in my sexual immorality.。
It's manifesting in my greed.。
It's manifesting in my coarse language and my jokes.。
It's manifesting in my joking and my gossiping。
and slandering or whatever it is.。
But Lord, I recognize it's manifesting itself。
in these ways that are actually bringing division。
and not unity.。
Lord, that's not what I want.。
I'm a child of light.。
So I wanna just encourage some of you now.。
That's the work Christ is inviting you into.。
But for maybe many of us,。
it's this work of recognizing that our light。
has been hidden for a while.。
Turn your light before all people。
so that they would see your good deeds.。
Not see how cool you are,。
not see how gifted or talented you are.。
They would see your heart,。
the goodness and the justice and the truth。
that sits within you, the fruits of light.。
They would see those things and they would change。
because they would see.。
Remember, everything that is light exposes。
and makes things visible.。
And so I wanna just pray an anointing over you here。
this morning。
to be able to shine the light of Jesus。
without any sense of doubt,。
without any sense of apology,。
without any sense of being ashamed.。
For Paul says, "I am unashamed of the gospel,。
"but to do so in love, to do so in grace,。
"to do so seeking the good of others,。
"to do so by laying your life down。
"and picking up your cross,。
"doing so by putting others before yourself,。
"doing so by revealing goodness and justice and truth."。
And so Lord, I pray you would release your people in this.。
And Father, we thank you so much for this.。
We're gonna just take a moment to respond in worship。
'cause I think it's really important。
that you take this time.。
If you need to repent, you take the time to repent.。
If you need to ask God to strengthen your hands。
like we talked about earlier, pray that.。
If you want your light to shine more,。
ask him to show you how you can do that。
in your sphere of influence.。
But every single part of it,。
let's bring it to him now in worship.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
