Thank you, team. Church, you can go ahead and grab a seat.。
Okay, so this is going to be interesting. I haven't really tried it out yet. It only works in my head.。
But I want to tell you guys something about me, without showing you the Viha brand, because I'm not necessarily endorsing them.。
So, I am a bit of a modified hipster, okay? So, it's just truth. I'm a complete hipster. I'm wearing the hipster beanie.。
I like to do hipster things, and I've just given into the reality that I'm a hipster.。
And so, one of the things I want to share with you guys is about my hipsterness, something you might not know about me.。
Most people have iPhones, and they take pictures with their iPhones.。
And, you know, if you're a bit more fancy or more professional, you have a digital camera. You take pictures with your digital camera.。
Me being a hipster means that I don't just use digital cameras, but I like film cameras, okay?。
Film isn't really a thing to do, because since the 1990s, digital's become a thing.。
But I like to carry around film cameras. I know almost everything about film cameras and every film.。
This is Portra 400, one of the best films you can actually buy for medium format.。
I would know this because I've researched everything. I've watched every YouTube video.。
This is Ultramax 400, also a 400-speed film. This is my personal favorite. It's actually quite cheap as well.。
You can buy the three-pack all at the same time. This is the way to go. I'm obsessed with this.。
So, like I said, I've watched every video on Instagram. You know, I'm only 35, so I have Instagram.。
Just saying, in case you don't know. On Instagram, I have folders saved with all my favorite images.。
Some of my favorite images are taken on films called Lumography. This is Lumography 400.。
It's a bit cheaper than the Kodak option, because Kodak's quite expensive.。
And then if you're super hipster, you can also shoot in black and white, because you don't need color when you have such great composition skills, right?。
So, I also have Ilford 100 and XP 200, and we have one more film in here.。
This is a new bad boy that I have become obsessed with. Kodak just released it recently.。
This is Kodacolor 200. Now, from all the things I've read online, it's pretty much the same film that's already existed.。
They just rebranded it. But I'm the sucker who went out and bought it, because it's more expensive, and I think it shoots nicer.。
But I've read every possible blog, I've seen every video, I've filled my Instagram folder with all the things to know about film photography.。
I've watched every YouTube video, the long ones, the short ones. I know so, so much about film photography.。
If that one doesn't resonate with you, I'll try another one.。
My second big favorite hobby is cooking, believe it or not. I also, on Instagram, have folders just filled with recipes.。
Korean recipes, because I'm obsessed with Korean food. I know the right kimchi to buy, I know the right noodles, I know the right soybean paste.。
I've got it all figured out. I've written it down. There's lots of things on here, and you can take a photo of this if you need.。
If you want some good recipes, y'all, this is good stuff.。
But I follow all the famous people who put out these super simple recipes to follow throughout your week, so you can make dinner really easily.。
I've acquired so much of this stuff. I have it down. I've got these folders filled.。
But if I'm honest, these folders are filled, but I've probably only made one of these recipes.。
Just being honest, I've accumulated all the information on it. I've got it saved. I'm even so prepared.。
I have an Excel sheet with all the different information on it in case I don't want photos, but I want clear steps.。
I've gathered everything I need to know about photography and about cooking in order to be a good cook and in order to take good photos.。
But I think we all know that just because you have the information on a thing, just because I have the camera and all the different film,。
just because my Instagram is full of recipes I'll never use doesn't make me necessarily good at that thing.。
Composition in photography is more than liking a couple things on Instagram.。
Being a good cook, preparing foods for your family, and learning all these different meals goes beyond clicking Save to Folder.。
That's actually the easy thing, right? It doesn't take much work, just a quick thumb exercise to click Save to Folder.。
What is the name of this folder? Must-try recipes. Okay, cool. Save it to your must-try recipes.。
But there is a difference, and I guess that's what I want to draw our attention to.。
There is a difference between knowing and knowing about. I know a lot about recipes.。
To be fair, I also know a lot about cooking because I do cook a lot, and I do take a lot of photos on my film camera.。
But there is a difference between understanding a thing and knowing it and having the information and talking about it。
and accumulating knowledge about it and actually knowing the thing itself.。
We've been sitting here in this series for the past couple of weeks on the idea of waiting.。
And let's be honest. It doesn't matter how many sermons are preached on waiting.。
It doesn't matter how great the PowerPoints are or how great the props are.。
Waiting is still hard. It still creates tension in us.。
And no matter how good we feel like this season might be, it still requires a daily commitment to submit ourselves to that waiting process。
and to control our emotions and to not spiral.。
Is anyone here guilty of the temptation to spiral when you're waiting?。
Is that just me? Anyone that starts to spiral?。
What if it doesn't happen? What if the worst-case scenario takes place?。
What if everything goes downhill? Yeah, a few of us? Four of us? Cool.。
You guys can join me at the prayer line early. Okay, cool, cool. There's a few of you.。
But did you know that waiting well is actually fueled by a couple of components, a couple of ideas?。
There are some really important, crucial ideas that everything hinges on,。
that if we were to understand them in our waiting, would actually produce something for us in our waiting.。
Not just that we're waiting for a thing, but if we understood these components,。
if we were to take in these concepts, we would understand how to wait well with hope.。
We would learn how to wait well regardless of temptation to spiral.。
That it would activate this active anticipation of change that would produce a current good in us and a future good as well.。
Pastor Andrew says regularly that waiting is a gift.。
And the first time I remember myself and the creative team, when we heard this, we're like, "What?。
Why is waiting a gift? That just sounds so ugh."。
But the more you think about it, and as we look at it today, we'll see that there actually is a gift,。
a couple of gifts to be found in the waiting season, listen to this, beyond what you're waiting for.。
God has in planned for us, not just to resolve the tension that we are waiting within,。
but to give us things, give us gifts in order to impact and change us.。
And so we're going to be part in Psalm 27.。
We've been here for the entire series, looking this week at verses 7 through 12.。
Let me read it for us.。
It says this, "Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud.。
Be gracious to me and answer me.。
You have said, 'Seek my face.'。
My heart says to you, 'Your face, Lord, do I seek.'。
Hide not your face from me.。
Turn not your servants away in anger.。
O you who have been my help, cast me not off.。
Forsake me not, O God of my salvation.。
For my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in.。
So teach me your ways, O Lord, and lead me on a level path because of my enemies.。
Give me not up to the will of my adversaries.。
For false witnesses have risen against me, and they breathe out violence."。
Let me pray.。
God, we open your word, and we just ask, Holy Spirit, that you--。
what is said about you is that you help us understand what is written,。
that you give us wisdom.。
So we ask that you, in this moment, as we look at your word, would be our wisdom,。
would show us what it is that you want us to see.。
We submit ourselves and humble ourselves to be under your word today.。
Would you speak in Jesus' name?。
Amen.。
So if you're familiar with what we've talked about so far, verses 1 through 6,。
David's tone has changed a little bit.。
By the time we get to verse 7, something is different in how he's speaking.。
In the first six verses, the way he's talking is very faith-filled.。
It's very about God.。
He's using this head knowledge that he's acquired about God.。
He's speaking about things that he has heard or that he knows,。
things that he understands, facts and things that he knows about God.。
He's saying things like, "God is my light and my salvation.。
Whom shall I fear?"。
He's talking about the things of God that he knows, information and understanding.。
So he's pretty much telling himself, "It's going to be okay.。
I don't need to worry.。
It's fine.。
Everything's fine.。
Nothing to worry about.。
It's fine.。
God is my light and my salvation.。
Whom shall I fear?。
It doesn't matter how long I'm waiting.。
It doesn't matter how much trouble I'm in.。
God is with me."。
He's spouting out this theology that is meant to help him.。
And a lot of us find ourselves in that place as well.。
He's convincing himself, giving himself the strength he needs。
by reciting what he knows about God.。
But something different changes in verse 7.。
He adds a new component to the way that he engages.。
David takes it further.。
And this new thing he does is something I think we can all miss sometimes in our。
seasons of waiting.。
He stops talking about God, and he starts talking to God.。
Sit with that for a minute.。
He stops talking about all the things and all the attributes he knows about God,。
and he starts talking to God.。
A subtle difference, but it has massive implications.。
You could say he stops theologizing and he starts praying,。
which seems a bit silly.。
Like, how is he not praying already?。
So he turns his attention to God, and he addresses him clearly.。
He says, "Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud.。
Be gracious to me and answer me.。
You have said, 'Seek my face.'"。
He's like, "God, hear me.。
This isn't easy.。
God, hear me.。
I'm crying out to you.。
What I'm feeling now in this moment isn't enjoyable."。
He cries out to God.。
He's honest before God.。
The idea of crying out is so unique because David is the king, right?。
He's the king of a nation that's doing really well.。
And the way that it's set up is that the king is here, and he has prophets,。
and he has priests.。
And if he needs someone to go to God on his behalf,。
he has a priest to go to God on his behalf.。
But the king is taking this humble position of vulnerability,。
and he's crying out to God.。
When was the last time you cried out to God?。
When was the last time you were like, "God, I hate waiting?。
God, waiting isn't producing what I want.。
Everyone else is getting what they want, but I haven't gotten mine yet.。
God, everything I see around me tells me it's never going to work out.。
God, I'm so close to spiraling again."。
When was the last time you cried out to God?。
David gets real with God.。
And I think sometimes as Christians we can think we just need to put the good。
words together.。
"He is my rock.。
He is my salvation.。
He is my strength."。
Yes, that's true, but he also is there to hear you.。
He also wants to hear how your heart is broken.。
There's something about crying out to God that David sees in this section.。
It's more than telling yourself how faithful God is.。
It's more than proclaiming all the promises,。
but it's telling God that your heart hurts,。
and it's telling God that you're broken over the situation,。
that it's gripping your emotions, that you fear,。
and that you feel like you might fail.。
It's that honesty that crying out calls us to do.。
So when was the last time you cried out to God?。
David knows something in this psalm that we'll see across other psalms and other。
passages in Scripture, that we have to let our theology lead to prayer,。
that when we're vulnerable before God, something happens.。
In our waiting, we need our vulnerability before God.。
When we cry out to God, we express this vulnerability,。
and in that vulnerability, something is produced.。
It's called intimacy.。
See, when we cry out to God, when we pour our hearts out to God,。
something happens.。
God hears you.。
There's so many Scriptures.。
I love the word he uses, he cries out.。
The word cry is so important because so many times God would say,。
"From heaven, I have heard the cry of my people."。
But if we never cry, how is he going to hear us?。
He doesn't say, "I've heard the resolve of your theology."。
He says, "I've heard the cry of my people,。
and I have come down to liberate, to free, to be with them."。
Church, when was the last time we cried out to God?。
Could it be that in this vulnerability of crying out to God,。
we find that God draws himself to us?。
There's a verse that says -- actually, I'll get through in a minute.。
Let me not go too fast.。
Vulnerability leads to this.。
He says, "You have said, 'Seek my face.'。
My heart says to you, 'Your face, Lord, I do seek.'"。
So what is happening in this verse?。
It's such a weird thing to say.。
He's being vulnerable.。
He's saying, "I'm crying out," and God is saying, "Seek my face."。
He says, "Okay, I'm going to seek your face."。
What is he talking about?。
What is this idea of face-seeking?。
God's not asking for Christian jargon, but he's asking for vulnerability,。
and vulnerability has something to do with seeking God's face.。
To seek his face is to seek his countenance, to understand what he's about.。
And I was looking up the word "countenance."。
One of the things I saw is the ability to understand what someone's doing。
without them even saying anything.。
It's this intimacy, this closeness, where God doesn't have to speak,。
but I can know his heart because I've been with him.。
To seek his face is to know him personally, not just what Pastor Andrew。
or Pastor Carla or Pastor Ellison or Pastor Promise has said about God,。
because we can be good at that.。
We can quote what the preacher says, but if we seek his face ourselves,。
we can then know who he truly is.。
When we cry out to God, we are invited to seek his face, to know him,。
to come closer to him.。
Do you see what God is doing here?。
Our vulnerability is an invitation to intimacy with God, to really knowing him.。
That's the reason that James would tell us that if we draw near to him,。
he will draw near to us.。
Like in this season of waiting, I think for a lot of us,。
we think that the longer we wait, the further God is,。
but potentially we have that backwards.。
Because if we were to cry out, if we were to be vulnerable,。
allow that invitation of intimacy to exist, perhaps that drawing near to him,。
he would draw near to us, and we would find that even in our waiting,。
God's not distant.。
God's not far away.。
He's so much closer than we realize.。
And we need to know him for ourselves, and that's what this does for us.。
Psalm 34 would say this, "The Lord draws near to the brokenhearted."。
So let me just -- if you are currently waiting, and it stings,。
and you're frustrated, and you're -- if you're disappointed,。
God draws near to that.。
God doesn't shoo that away.。
If you're anxious, and you're struggling,。
and you just can't make it make sense, and you're feeling all the feels,。
God draws near to that.。
He doesn't run away from that.。
That doesn't scare him.。
He doesn't need you to have all your stuff together.。
God draws near to the brokenhearted.。
The intimacy of God, knowing him, is a byproduct of crying out to him.。
Because when we know the face of God, it's going to impact how we wait.。
And so it's deeply important that we know who he is,。
not just what we feel in the moment, which oftentimes sounds louder。
and is more clear, but it's important that we know who he is。
and what is true about him.。
We need to know for ourselves.。
And it's only from this posture of intimacy that we're able to understand。
what David is describing in the next two verses in verses 9 and 10.。
He says this, "Hide not your face from me.。
Turn not your servants away in anger.。
Oh, you who have been my help, cast me not off.。
Forsake me not.。
Oh, God, my salvation.。
My father and my mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in."。
Does anyone notice -- I don't like grammar,。
but we're going to do a little bit of grammar.。
A little bit.。
A tiny bit.。
Don't get me wrong, so teachers, please hold it till the end.。
David speaks in all three tenses in this one section.。
Hide not, turn not, cast not, forsake me not.。
He's speaking in the present.。
So in the moment, don't do this, God.。
Don't do this.。
Don't do this.。
The past tense, he says, "You who have been," the helping verb there,。
"have been my help."。
Past tense.。
Then the future, "But the Lord will take me in."。
Why do you think he's giving us all three tenses?。
Why isn't he just saying something about who God was or just his future hope。
about who God will be?。
Is he drawing out from his cry and his intimacy and the vulnerability。
that he's found?。
David now prays in these three ways.。
The past of who God was, putting his trust there.。
The present of who God is and the faith that he's going to have to have in this。
moment and the future of who God will be.。
David now has this profound sense of knowing God, right?。
So seeking his face, now knowing him in all dimensions.。
The intimacy part of his prayer revealed the countenance of who God was.。
And this is specifically important in our season of waiting because when we have。
to wait for long periods, we forget.。
The longer we wait, we forget.。
And I think Andrew spoke about this either two weeks ago,。
but understanding who God was is deeply important for us moving forward, right?。
It's hard to have faith today if we don't have a reliable God from the past.。
And so David prays about who God was.。
He speaks about who God was.。
Drawing on who God was had led David to this, remembering God correctly.。
In the moments and the feelings, the longer we wait,。
potentially our vision becomes skewed.。
Because of the stress and the anxiety of having to wait,。
it's important that we remember correctly who God was.。
In each line, his prayer gets stronger.。
Because I know who he was, I now know who he is, and that produces faith in me.。
So he can say, "Cast me not off."。
He can say, "In this moment, God, don't do this.。
Don't forsake me, God, because I know who you were back then."。
It builds on one another, almost like a domino effect.。
And from that, he can say, "I know that you will never leave me.。
I know that in the future," and I love this example he gives here.。
When your mother and your father forsake you, he's giving the most dramatic example。
of a moment of need.。
Think about it.。
In a culture that is so family-centered, if your mother and your father forsake you,。
you have nothing.。
David says that, "Even in my worst moment to come, because I know who God was,。
because I stand on who he is today, I can have hope in the future for who he will be."。
And that's why we have to be able to pray all three of these things,。
understand all three of these tenses.。
God is steadfast in his love, in his ways.。
He's not changing.。
He wasn't different yesterday.。
He's going to be someone different today, be someone tomorrow.。
There's a reason that the song that was written here says, "Hallelujah,。
praise the one who was.。
Hallelujah, praise the one who is.。
You'll forever be our God."。
We love singing that, but have we thought about what that means?。
We are declaring that based on who he was, we have faith in the moment for who he is,。
and we have hope into who he will forever be.。
That is what David is pulling out of these verses.。
This is why he uses all three tenses.。
God is not just our hope, but he is our dependable, reliable hope.。
Because of what has happened in the past, I have confidence now,。
and I have hope in the future.。
It's a prophetic declaration that God is faithful, that all is not lost.。
Though I wait and he's not answered me yet, though I can't see an answer coming soon,。
though nothing is breaking, God won't forsake me.。
If my mother and my father, if the worst thing happens, God will be there for me.。
To live in that prophetic hope is only possible when we allow our vulnerability,。
our crying out to lead into intimacy, which allows us to know the face,。
the attributes, the characteristics, the countenance of God.。
It produces in us this three-dimensional hope and faith and confidence.。
This is why waiting is a gift.。
We've seen what it produces.。
So far, it's produced intimacy, a chance to really know God,。
a drawing in so that we can see and be near God who draws into the brokenhearted.。
That's a gift.。
And it produces this deep hope in us.。
Hope is such an interesting thing.。
We're just drawing in, and when things are--we're waiting for things to take place,。
to have hope.。
For some of us, it might be easier.。
For others of us, it might be harder, right?。
Hope in God, I think scripture tells us, will not put us to shame in Romans 5:3.。
And I'm sure there are some of us here who are like, "Okay, cool.。
I've been waiting, and hope has put me to shame.。
I've been waiting, and it's never happened."。
I'm not just doing this sermon series of waiting.。
I've been waiting for years, and God hasn't come true.。
So how do you say that, you know, if we just have hope and if we just believe。
in all these big spiritual terms that it's going to be okay when God hasn't answered me,。
when it still is hard, when we've been waiting for decades,。
when our prayers have not been answered and we just live in this space。
of disappointment, how can you ask me to have prophetic hope?。
As I was writing this sermon, I got to this question,。
and I almost skipped it because I'm like, "This is a hard thing to tackle.。
This is not easy.。
It's not a good preach to be like, 'Okay, but sometimes it doesn't work,' right?。
Like, we all want to come to church and hear, 'Here are your four steps。
or your three steps,' and then I'm going to go and do it and apply it,。
and voila, hope is going to appear, and voila,。
prayer is going to be answered.。
But the very real reality is that we can cry out and be vulnerable.。
We can express our dependency and reliance on the God who was,。
who is, and who forever will be, or we can still be disappointed,。
and our prayers can still not be answered as we think.。
And how does God expect us to have hope and not live in a spiral。
of disappointment when that happens?。
The very last part of this passage addresses this in a very unique way.。
So I'm going to go ahead and say this is not going to answer it exactly,。
but it's going to provide an answer that I hope will be good enough to get you。
through the next day, okay?。
Reading this last chunk, there are two particular things that we're going。
to find in this last verse.。
We're going to find something very interesting that David asks for,。
and we're going to find an order of which he asks for these things.。
And I think both of these things, both of these components,。
are crucial for us if we find ourselves waiting and it just hasn't happened yet,。
and we're on the edge of spiraling into disappointment.。
So let me just read you what he says in this last verse.。
He says, "Teach me your way, O Lord."。
Let's just stop there.。
He says, "Teach me your way."。
So he's cried out.。
He's developed this intimacy.。
He now has this faith and hope and confidence,。
and he's this boldness to be able to come before God and now say what is on his。
heart, not just how he feels, but perhaps what he wants.。
And if I were David, after building up all of this,。
my first thing would be like, "God, solve my problem now.。
God, an answer, please.。
I've been waiting.。
Yes, I know you can do all things.。
I know who you were, who you are, who you will be.。
I know your face.。
Can you X, Y, Z?。
Can you give me what it is that I need?"。
Uniquely, what David does here is not that.。
He says, "Teach me your way."。
I really struggled with this one because if I'm honest, this is never my prayer.。
In my waiting, when I'm on the edge of spiraling into disappointment,。
my prayer is not, "God, teach me your ways."。
My prayer is, "God, help me escape.。
God, get me out of this.。
God, solve the problem.。
God, show up, you know.。
Holy Spirit, fire, fix the situation because I believe."。
David, with all the belief, says, "God, teach me your way."。
Why?。
Why is that the request of all things to ask?。
Why is that the request?。
In modern terms, for some of us, it might be--our temptation would have been,。
"God, take away the pain.。
God, provide me the job.。
God, bring my spouse."。
Name it.。
We all have the things that we're asking for, right?。
God, do this.。
David says, "Teach me your ways."。
With prophetic hope, he asks for God to teach him his way.。
See, David has an understanding here that's very different than I think we。
would normally carry.。
David's prayer and petition has caused him to know God better.。
And in that knowing of God better, in that seeing God's face,。
something has shifted.。
David's still in a messy situation, but his desire is now to know God's way,。
not to get a solution.。
"Teach me your ways," the first thing he asks.。
As God has drawn him in, in the intimacy that's been produced,。
his desires have now been reprioritized.。
Very subtle shift.。
Situation's still the same, but the first thing he asks,。
the first thing he asks is that God would teach him his ways.。
So I am convinced that we cannot draw close to God and see him more clearly。
for who he truly is and want anything other than to be more like him.。
This is not an easy preach.。
Even in the middle of the waiting, I am convinced that when we draw into。
God and we allow him to draw near to us, when he shows us who he truly is,。
something changes in us, that what we desire more is to be like him.。
Even though our situation hasn't changed yet, David desires this.。
It's like he seeks formation more than the solution.。
We have this appetite after we've seen the countenance of God.。
Now that we've come close to God and we see who he really is, his ways,。
his methods, we're like, "God, help me to see it the way you see it.。
Help me to think about these things the way you think about these things.。
It's not easy, but God, help me to have your perspective on this.。
I want to be like you.。
Lead me in your ways.。
Give me your approach.。
I want to feel about this, God, the way that you feel about this.。
Make me more like you, God, so that I can do this right."。
That's what David is saying here.。
And it's not the pendulum swinging to the opposite end because he's prayed,。
he's super spiritual, so now he no longer wants anything.。
But, again, I said what he asked for and the order.。
The first thing he asked for, yes, is for God to make him more like him,。
for him to see God's ways, follow God's ways.。
And then he makes his request, right?。
So we can look and see.。
Sorry, we're going to skip to the next slide, team.。
It says, "Give me not up to the will of my adversaries,。
for false witness have arisen against me."。
First he starts with, "God, teach me to see things like you.。
And then, God, help me because this is hard and my adversaries are around,。
so don't give me up to the will of them."。
But first he says, "Help me to see things like you.。
Teach me your ways."。
It reminds me of when Jesus is on the earth and his disciples are following him。
for years and they're like, "We don't even know how to pray."。
Jesus says, "Let me teach you how to pray."。
When you pray, you say, "Our Father who art in heaven,。
hallowed be your name."。
First thing you say is, "Your kingdom come, your will be done," right?。
He doesn't stop there though because after that, two lines later,。
"Give us today, God, I need, I still have needs,。
but first I submit to your kingdom come, your will be done."。
That's exactly what David is doing here.。
"Teach me your ways, O Lord.。
This is my situation, but God, teach me to see it and to feel it like you do.。
Teach me to approach it like you do."。
God makes room for our wants and our needs and our prayer,。
but when we draw near to him, we will find that our desires are reprioritized,。
that they are reordered into a more healthy, more long-term,。
bigger picture perspective.。
All of this takes place in prayer.。
And what that makes me realize is that we should probably pray more, right?。
Like all of this is a byproduct of just crying out to God,。
like the domino effect of all of this, hope and faith and confidence,。
reprioritizing my desires.。
I mean, I try to reprioritize my desires all the time.。
I'm terrible at it.。
But if I spend time with God and I come close to him, he can do that.。
That's on the table for us.。
When I think about this being the reality, my response is we should pray more.。
We should really be into prayer for what it does.。
Prayer is a gift.。
Waiting is a gift because if we wait well, we will pray.。
And when we pray, he'll be close.。
He will hear.。
He will transform.。
He will comfort.。
He will be near when we're brokenhearted.。
It's an invitation to prayer.。
That's why waiting is a gift.。
So let me wrap this up.。
Normally, I like to say that as a good preacher, I have three takeaway points for you.。
But today, I only have two, okay?。
Two things.。
First thing is this.。
Takeaway point number one, come to God.。
Just come to him.。
Nothing deep, nothing fancy.。
Come to God.。
Sometimes as Christians, it's too quick that we regurgitate the things that we know.。
We regurgitate good theology or something quotable from Instagram or whatever someone else said.。
But we do that in place of actually going to God.。
Let me confess.。
So this has been one of the worst weeks for me and my family.。
Just everything that can go wrong keeps going wrong.。
Last week, my son was sick and then my wife and then me and then my -- we're all sick.。
Everyone's just sick in my house.。
But while my son was sick, it went from like the stomach bug for a couple of days, which is just the worst thing ever for like a 4-year-old.。
And I have to, like, quarantine with him in the room.。
So it's me and Elias just can be living with the stomach bugs.。
That's why I wasn't here last week.。
And then, like, by the time the stomach bug was gone, Elias started sweating a fever.。
It was, like, great.。
So we go to the doctor on Monday.。
My wife takes him in.。
And he has not RSV, some other acronym.。
And if it's ever an acronym, you know something's wrong, right?。
It doesn't tell you the words.。
It's just a couple of letters, you know, something's really off.。
He has that, and then we test it.。
My daughter has that.。
I'm just like, great.。
My 1-year-old, my 4-year-old are sick.。
Great time in life.。
I, talking to my wife, I'm the optimistic one in our relationship.。
I like to think it's all going to be okay.。
I'm always like, yeah, it's fine.。
God's got us.。
It's okay.。
So she's worried.。
She's stressed.。
I'm like, no, no, no, it's okay.。
It's just some virus.。
It'll be fine.。
No big deal.。
You know, God's been there for me before.。
He didn't bring me this far to let me down.。
God's going to be with me.。
He doesn't teach you to swim to let you drown, is what my grandmother told me.。
So I'm just telling that to myself and to my wife and to my kids,。
and I'm just speaking all the things that I know.。
And then my parents, who are in the States, call.。
I grew up with my parents as pastors.。
My dad's a pastor.。
My mom, a worship leader, grew up very Christian.。
So my parents call, and they're like, oh, what's wrong?。
I'm like, oh, Elias is sick, yada, yada, yada.。
It's okay because God is for us and all the things.。
And my parents, in their good African Pentecostal way, just start praying.。
On FaceTime, they just start pleading the blood of Jesus over my 4-year-old son。
that no weapon formed against him would -- and they just start leaning into prayer,。
like hardcore prayer meeting.。
I mean, we have dodgy Wi-Fi, so it's breaking in and out, and it's like,。
are they speaking in tongues or are they speaking in English?。
We don't know, but they are praying hard.。
I mean, they are leaning in, like so much so that my son -- I mean, he's 4,。
and he has a fever, so he just, like, gets up and walks off.。
And they keep praying.。
Like, it's just that they were committed to it.。
I get off the phone, and I realize, check my spirit.。
Right before I wrote this sermon, God was like, you never prayed for your son.。
You had all the theology to calm your nerves.。
You had all the right things to say to help yourself not be anxious.。
But you didn't once draw near to me.。
Sometimes it's very easy for us to over-Christianize the moment。
and miss out on the gift that comes when we actually just pray.。
And so, as simple as it is, pray. Don't just talk about God. Talk to God.。
And secondly, in that space, on the same point, we have to dispel this lie。
that holds us back from intimacy, that God doesn't -- this idea that we think。
we have to have it all put together when we come to God.。
God doesn't need your Christianese.。
God doesn't need your jargon.。
God doesn't need you put together to come to Him.。
It's not your job to put yourself together.。
Just come to Him. So nothing disqualifies you from praying.。
If you're hurt, and if your heart's broken, and you're on the edge of spiraling,。
you're in a great position to pray. You're qualified. Thumbs up.。
You can approach Him, and you know that He draws near to those who are brokenhearted.。
And so to make it very simple, here is a quick little guide for us.。
When you pray this week, try it like this.。
God, I feel -- we're talking about crying out and being honest with Him.。
God, I feel angry, sad, frustrated, lost, livid, disappointed, can't handle it.。
God, I feel -- and just tell Him.。
You fill in the blank with what's best for you.。
And follow that with this, God, I fear.。
God's not afraid of you telling Him what you're afraid of, okay?。
God, I feel this. God, I fear that it's never going to happen,。
that I'm going to be left alone, that this is going to fail,。
that I'm going to pray, and I'm not going to get anything back.。
You fill in the blank, but go to God, okay?。
Second point, check your hope.。
Where is your hope when you're waiting?。
If hope is only found as a result of intimacy in God,。
then true hope in Jesus only comes from being with Jesus.。
Where is your hope?。
We don't want a fake hope that's not dependable or not reliable.。
We don't need a hope that has an expiration date.。
That's why we can be confident in God, who is our hope because of what He's done,。
what He's doing, and what He will do.。
That's why I harked on that point for so long, hope that's actually reliable.。
This is the hope that we find in Jesus.。
So when our hope is failing, consider where exactly is your hope?。
God doesn't change. He's consistent, steadfast, constant, never-ending.。
Find the synonym you want. He's always there.。
Where is your hope?。
Let the intimacy found in crying out in your vulnerability to God,。
let it lead you to seek His face,。
and let the hope that He wants for you to have be found.。
And so for those of us who are in that space, who need to check our hope,。
two prayer prompts for you as well.。
God, you are.。
And this is not you talking about God. This is you talking to God.。
God, you are for me.。
You are patient. You are kind.。
You are able.。
You are whatever the attribute of God is that you need to hold on to.。
Tell Him that.。
And then this last one, this is quite important.。
Make sure you don't skip this part.。
God, help me build my hope on you because you are, okay?。
We're not just saying what He is.。
We're asking Him to help our hope be built upon Him because of who He is.。
God wants to meet us in our waiting.。
God has gifts for us as we draw in and as we pray.。
So as the worship team comes, can I just get you to close your eyes?。
And pray for us before we enter into our time of response.。
Something we do here at the Vine very often, but if you find yourself in a season of waiting,。
in a season of needing to hear from God, or maybe you're on the edge of frustration,。
if you find yourself needing to come back to God, to actually pray to Him,。
you need to find yourself checking your hope.。
Can I just ask you to open your hands wherever you are?。
And we're just going to do this as a posture of our openness to Him in this moment.。
God, we thank you that you don't disappear, that you don't leave us,。
that you are not far away in these seasons of prolonged waiting.。
God, we thank you that waiting is an invitation to greater intimacy with you through prayer.。
And we thank you that as we come to you, as we draw near to you, you draw near to us as well.。
So God, for those of us who are in need of the comfort that comes from drawing near to you,。
would you speak to our hearts now?。
Would your Holy Spirit impress upon our hearts that it's okay to be vulnerable before you,。
that it's okay to bear our hearts to you, to tell you what it feels like,。
to express our sadness, our disappointment, our grief?。
And Holy Spirit, would you remind us that God is big enough to handle that,。
that He's a comforter, He's not just going to hear it and dismiss it,。
but He's going to draw near to us.。
God, I pray that those of us in this room now would, as we draw near,。
that we would seek your face, God, that you are not hiding from us,。
but that as we seek your face that you will be found, that you will be known,。
and that as we know you and see you and seek you, hope will be built in our hearts, God.。
Hope built on the fact that who you were is reliable and consistent,。
who you are now is still for us,。
and we can live with this prophetic hope of who you will be in the future.。
And God, I pray that as we come to you in this space,。
would you do for us what we cannot do for ourselves.。
While we may seek solutions, God, would you reprioritize our desires to seek formation,。
to be made more like you, God, to want the things of you, to see things your way.。
Give us a gift that's bigger than the solving of a problem today,。
but something also for tomorrow.。
God, we come to you because we know who you are.。
Would you remind us of that Holy Spirit?。
You speak to us where we need, and we surrender and give these things to you.。
In Jesus' name, Amen.。
