Well, it's great to see everyone.。
And I want to start off, when I was in 2000, actually I don't know when it was, it was a long time ago, I don't even think it was 2000.。
When I was 15 years old, I had a friend that lived about two hours away.。
And so I used to visit him on extended holidays with a train or sometimes he came and saw me.。
And on one occasion, I got on the train, I had a basketball magazine, this is before the times of like having your smartphone.。
So I like, there was nothing to do, so I had a magazine.。
I find a compartment where there's six seats in one compartment, that's how they used to have trains in Germany.。
So I sit down where there's nobody else, I'm like, this is awesome, I'm by myself.。
I start reading and then a guy comes in, a young man older than me, sits right across from me.。
I'm like, why did he sit right across from me? There's all this space.。
Come on.。
And the first thing he says to me is, you're a Christian, aren't you?。
I was like, what?。
He's like, no, you have to know, I've never have seen this guy before in my life.。
I have no idea who he is.。
So in my mind, my wheels are turning.。
I was like, what does this guy want from me?。
He doesn't introduce himself, he doesn't say hello.。
He starts off with, you're a Christian.。
What does he want?。
Do I want to say that I'm a Christian?。
So I had a choice to make.。
Am I going to step out in faith and say, yes, I'm a Christian, or am I going to remain in hiding?。
Now, what you also don't know is I have just become a Christian.。
So I'm a new Christian, my baby Christian.。
So before this point, I had never publicly told anyone that I was a Christian, besides people in church.。
So I end up telling him, yes, I'm a Christian.。
And we had an amazing conversation for the entire train ride, talking about faith, all sorts of things.。
And as I was reflecting on that experience, I realized that God was calling me, through this guy's question, to a greater faith.。
That he was calling me to step out in faith and publicly declare, yes, I'm a Christian.。
And what I also didn't know was that on that weekend, as I was heading to see my friend,。
it was important for me to have a clear identity of who I am, what I'm going to do, and what I'm not going to do.。
So God worked through this encounter.。
Now, God doesn't only just, or has not just done it in that specific circumstance.。
Actually, part of our discipleship journey is that there is times where Jesus calls us to greater faith.。
Maybe it's trusting him with a job search, and he's teaching you to trust him, that he can provide.。
And he's asking you to trust yourself to him.。
For me, it was trusting to say I'm a Christian in this awkward situation, that this guy doesn't have some weird, bad agenda.。
But right now, as we're going through the Longing for Healing sermon series that we started last week,。
I believe that the Holy Spirit wants to stir some faith among us.。
He's calling us to a deeper faith and a type of feeling that Jesus is powerful to do in our lives,。
that Jesus is powerful to do in your lives, and in this community's life.。
Amen?。
And so, Jesus calls us out of our comfort and routines to turn to him in faith to receive his restoring and healing work.。
He wants to break some of those comfort and some of that routine that we're right now living.。
He's calling us to step out of that.。
So that's what we're going to be looking at today.。
But we're continuing in our message series, Longing for Healing.。
This is the second week.。
The thing that we're looking at is that Jesus is the one in whom there is help, healing, wholeness,。
and he's the only one who can fully deliver that.。
He's the only one who has the power to do this work in our lives.。
And so, as you look at the Gospels, and we're going to look at a story of an encounter between Jesus and a woman today.。
And as you look at these encounters, a lot of times people come with the obvious need to Jesus,。
the one that's very visible. A lot of times that's a physical need.。
And so they bring their physical need to Jesus, and Jesus heals the physical need.。
But he actually does a deeper healing.。
Because we don't just need healing physically, we need healing spiritually, emotionally, mentally, socially.。
And Jesus cares about all of who we are, our whole person.。
And so my prayer for this series is that we will see and that we will experience that Jesus did not just heal back then,。
but he heals here today.。
That he has the power to bring restoration, healing, wholeness, where we're feeling broken,。
where we are carrying hurt, where we are carrying pain.。
And not only does he want to do that in our lives,。
so he wants us to receive that, but he also wants us to be agents who bring healing to others.。
Because one way that God works a lot of times is actually through loving community.。
That he brings healing to people's lives through other people who point others to Jesus,。
who show the love of Jesus, the grace of Jesus to people, and walk with people.。
So that's my prayer for this series, that we see how Jesus can bring healing into our life。
in deeper and unexpected ways, and that we can also see that he calls us to be agents of healing in other people's lives.。
So that we can pass this on to others.。
So today we're in the Gospel of Mark.。
Let me set the context for the story that we're going to look at.。
So the story we're looking at, it's actually found in between another story.。
So there's a story that begins, then there's our story, and then that other story continues.。
So Jairus, who was a leader in the synagogue, well-respected, honored man,。
his daughter is lying in bed and she is dying.。
And so he has heard about Jesus, he goes to Jesus, he asks for Jesus to come to lay hands on his daughter,。
to heal her, to deliver her from this death.。
And Jesus agrees, and he goes with Jesus.。
And so they're on their way, they're walking to his house, and this is where our story interrupts that story.。
So that's where we're going to pick up, we're in Mark chapter 5, verse 24b, and that's where we're going to start reading.。
"A large crowd followed and pressed around him, and a woman was there who had been subject to bleeding for 12 years.。
She had suffered a great deal under the care of many doctors, and had spent all she had,。
yet instead of getting better, she grew worse.。
When she heard about Jesus, she came up behind him in the crowd and touched his cloak,。
for she thought, 'If I touch his clothes, I will be healed.'。
Immediately her bleeding stopped, and she felt in her body that she was freed from her suffering.。
At once Jesus realized that power had gone out from him.。
He turned around in the crowd and asked, 'Who touched my clothes?'。
'You see the people crowding against you,' the disciples answered, 'and yet you ask who touched me?'。
But Jesus kept looking around to see who had done it.。
Then a woman, knowing what had happened to her, came and fell at his feet, and trembling with fear, told him the whole truth.。
He said to her, 'Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace and be freed from your suffering.'"。
Now at the beginning of this story, we learn about the specifics of this woman's prolonged suffering.。
This has been going on for a very long time. Twelve years we're told.。
She is experiencing bleeding. It's not the normal menstrual bleeding. It's a uterine bleeding.。
It's just ongoing. It's a medical condition.。
It's causing her a lot of pain, a lot of shame.。
But we also have to know the cultural context that she's having this medical condition in.。
Because during that time, if you had uterine bleeding, you would be considered as an unclean person.。
So they have this concept of clean and unclean. And she would be considered unclean.。
What that means is if she touches anyone, if she sits down anywhere, then there needs to be cleansing.。
The person needs to wash their clothes. They need to bathe themselves.。
And so not only is she experiencing this physical pain, but she's also experiencing social and emotional pain.。
Because she's really cut off from normal human relationships.。
So this has an incredible impact on her.。
She's also not able to go to the temple. She's not able to go into the synagogue.。
So she's also cut off from the spiritual life and community.。
And on top of that, to add pain to pain, she most likely is not able to marry.。
And because of her medical condition, also not able to have children.。
So we can see these are just layers of suffering.。
But then we're also told that she suffered a great deal under many doctors.。
As I was reading this, I'm familiar with this passage, but this had never stood out to me before.。
She suffered a great deal under many doctors.。
And I just wonder, what treatments did they take her through?。
Was it humiliating? Was it traumatizing? Was it painful?。
Were there just expectations where every time she had hope that she would be healed, and then it was just crushed?。
And we're told that she spent all her money.。
So this used to be a woman of means, but she lost all her money.。
So she's also on top of it, living in poverty.。
And that with all the medical treatment, she actually just got worse.。
But the one thing that we do see in her is that there is this longing, just this desire to be healed, to be well.。
And she has done everything that she knows how to do, but nothing has worked.。
Now, the reason why I wanted to slow down, a lot of times you can read past this suffering quickly, and almost not notice it or feel it.。
But I wanted us to see it, to actually see this woman, to not just brush past her.。
Now, I also know that some of us here have actually been carrying pain and suffering for a very long time.。
Maybe it's also been multiple years.。
And I just want to say that I'm so thankful and grateful that you're here, and that we love you.。
And that my hope is that in this community, you can find friendship, you can find support,。
and you also can encounter the healing and the loving presence of Jesus.。
That's my heart.。
So God's Word tells us that even as Christians, we will experience suffering in this world.。
This is part of human experience.。
Suffering, pain, and death, they're not God's will for life.。
That's not what we were created for. But they are unavoidable aspects of this world in its broken condition.。
Last week we looked at creation, fall, redemption, new creation.。
We looked at how the sin fall impacted every aspect of our lives, and brought damage to every aspect of our lives.。
So this is part of living in a fallen world.。
So we don't have to feel surprised if we experience suffering and pain.。
At one point or another, most of us experience this, if we're just honest.。
And it also doesn't mean that God is specifically trying to target you with what's happening.。
That He's somewhat angry with you.。
So this is the reality of living in a broken world.。
God's Word, one thing that it does to you is it encourages us to bring a brokenness and our pain to Jesus, who is healer, who is Savior.。
Now we don't always understand why in one instance a person is healed, and in another instance a person is not healed.。
We don't understand why healing sometimes is a process, and sometimes it's instantaneous.。
I met a person that used to be addicted to heroin and strong drugs, and he had an instantaneous healing.。
Jesus delivered him from those drugs. Amazing.。
But then there are others where it's struggles and it's therapy and a long time of getting out of it.。
We don't always understand why things work that way.。
What we do know is that through Jesus' death and resurrection, heaven has come down.。
The kingdom of God has broken into this world.。
And now through Jesus, healing, restoration, hope, help, love is available in Him.。
I'm actually going to quote Pastor Chapman from last week's Cantonese service.。
Now, I did not understand what he said, but I do get to read the script in English.。
So he said this. I thought he said it perfectly.。
When we see healing, we see the already of the kingdom of God.。
And when we haven't seen healing, we see the not yet.。
But even if healing doesn't happen now, it will always happen when the kingdom of God is fully realized.。
Now, that's the biblical sort of background to our whole longing for healing conversation.。
But the one thing that scripture does make very clear in our passage today,。
it makes very clear that we are called to bring our brokenness, that we're called to bring our pain to Jesus.。
Because He is powerful. He is able to heal. He is able to restore.。
And so we can't control these other things.。
And we don't understand them. And there's some mystery to that.。
But we know what we can do. And that's come to Jesus.。
And that's what we're encouraged to do, to bring ourselves to Him.。
And unlike those doctors that the woman went to, we never leave Jesus feeling more broken.。
Where we always, after encountering Jesus, we feel His love, His loving presence. We feel better.。
And He does not put us to shame when we turn to Him.。
He does not put us to shame when we come to Him with our mess.。
Sometimes our sinfulness, our brokenness.。
But let's continue looking at the scripture.。
So in verse 27 we're told that the bleeding woman, that she heard about Jesus.。
So words have been spreading about Jesus that in Him there is healing.。
So it stirs in her heart and it raises hope inside of her.。
And so in her mind she thinks, "If I can only touch His cloak, if I can only touch His clothes, I'm going to be healed."。
So she sneaks up behind Jesus, touches His clothes, and we're told in verse 29 that immediately her bleeding stopped.。
And she felt in her body that she was freed from her suffering.。
It's amazing. Praise Jesus. Absolutely incredible healing.。
Now, why did she sneak up on Jesus?。
Earlier, Jairus, actually he goes publicly to Jesus. He doesn't have to sneak up to her.。
Why does she have to sneak up to Jesus, or feels like she has to sneak up to Jesus?。
Well, it has to do with what I explained earlier, because she feels unclean.。
Or that's what society tells her. Society tells you you're a walking contamination.。
She feels unworthy.。
And she doesn't feel like she can come just face to face with Jesus.。
She does the only thing that she knows how to do, and just comes to Him from behind, touches His clothes.。
And I just wonder if there are some of us who can relate to how this woman felt about herself and about coming to Jesus.。
I know I have felt that way in the past.。
I remember I really used to resonate with the lyrics from a song, "I'm too messed up for love."。
I'm going to try to write a whole, it's like a rap.。
It's like, "Will you take me as I am? I know the way that I'm living is wrong, but I can change on my own trying to make it along.。
I wonder how could you love me with my life so ugly that you laid down your life for me?"。
You know, that's how I felt. I felt that my life was so ugly.。
And I knew it, because it was full of sin and brokenness.。
And so I was ashamed.。
But let's continue verse 30, and I'll read 30 through 32.。
"At once Jesus realized that power had gone out from Him.。
He turned around in the crowd and asked, 'Who touched my clothes?'。
'You see the people crowding against you,' the disciples answered.。
'And yet you can ask who touched me?'。
But Jesus kept looking around to see who had done it."。
Now, I just picture Jesus on the NPR.。
Anyone with me? Rush hour, somewhere around Admiralty, or one of those points where there's so much going on.。
Everybody's pushing against you on every side.。
Everybody's clothes are touching with other people's clothes.。
And then Jesus says, "Who touched my clothes?"。
The disciples, "What are you talking about? Everybody's touching everyone's clothes."。
But what they didn't know is that Jesus had felt a power going out from Him.。
And so He continues to look around, and He's not swayed by the disciples to stop.。
Now, let me ask this question.。
Why does Jesus continue to look for the person who has touched Him?。
Why not just wink at the woman, "I know what you did. It's okay, and I'm just going to let you go in peace."。
Why did He do that?。
Why didn't Jesus--she already has been carrying so much shame.。
Why make her step out from the crowd?。
Well, let me explain.。
Now, the woman, she did receive physical healing.。
When she touched His clothes.。
That was amazing.。
But it was actually her shame that made her just sneak up on Jesus.。
And it was also her shame that was now at work in her heart as Jesus is asking, "Who touched me?"。
And obviously this must have taken a while because the way it's described in Scripture,。
she didn't just jump out immediately.。
There was some delay.。
And so she's still carrying this shame in her heart.。
And it almost keeps her from stepping out into the presence of Jesus, into the face-to-face with Jesus.。
Now, Brene Brown, some of you know her.。
She's a well-known author, a professor, researcher, especially on the topic around shame.。
She defines shame this way.。
"Shame is the intensely painful feeling or experience of believing that we are flawed。
and therefore unworthy of love and belonging."。
So the woman, she had internalized society's messages about herself.。
Unclean. Unworthy. Dishonored.。
She was carrying shame.。
Now, a while ago, I moved back to California.。
So I'm moving back and forth between different countries.。
And I had to go to the Department of Motor Vehicle, which is known in California as DMV.。
Now, in other parts of the U.S., you go to DMV, you're served right away.。
You're in, you're out.。
And California is notorious for these eternal lines where you go in and you want service,。
and it takes three, four hours.。
You're just standing there.。
So I needed to renew my driver's license because my license had expired like forever ago.。
So I'm standing in line.。
I don't know. It's probably already an hour and a half.。
And then this person, this man who is experiencing homelessness, he comes up to me.。
He needs a government ID.。
He asked me if I can help him fill out a form because he just couldn't do it.。
His body through living on the streets was so impacted, he wasn't able to do that anymore.。
So I was like, "Sure, I'd be happy to help."。
So I fill out the form. I work with him.。
We get to the part about organ donation.。
So I asked him, "Do you want to be an organ donor?"。
He says, "Me? I'm filth.。
Who would want my organs?"。
That just broke my heart that he saw himself as filth, that that's how he understood himself.。
Yes, he most likely was drinking, using drugs, all of those things.。
But we know that every single person is created in the image of God,。
that every single person is lovable, beautiful creation from God.。
And so we're not filth.。
But that's what society told him that he was in his experience of being homeless.。
Now that reminds me of the woman when I read the story,。
that she had internalized these messages that she was unclean, unworthy, unlovable.。
That then became her identity.。
That's who she thought she was.。
And her shame was a real barrier that was standing between her and Jesus.。
And her shame almost kept her from receiving what Jesus wanted to do in her life.。
Because he didn't just want to heal her physically.。
There was more work to be done.。
And so Jesus calls her out.。
He doesn't let it go.。
He wants her to step forward.。
He wants her to take a step of faith.。
And then she steps forward, trembling with fear.。
There's courage.。
There's vulnerability.。
Verse 33 describes it, says this,。
"Then the woman, knowing what had happened to her, came and fell at his feet,。
trembling with fear, told him the whole truth."。
So that means she stepped into the presence, the loving presence of Jesus.。
Instead of sneaking up on him,。
and an impersonal encounter with him,。
she now is having a personal encounter with Jesus.。
And she tells him the whole truth.。
So we're not told exactly what that all entails,。
but at the very least, this entails her desiring and longing for healing。
and touching his clothes,。
and in her, experience miraculous physical healing.。
And when you read about trembling with fear,。
now this can be for many reasons.。
Maybe she was trembling with fear because of the whole clean, unclean thing,。
and she touched him, and thereby defiled him.。
She was like, "Maybe Jesus is going to get angry with me."。
Then I touched him.。
Once he finds out.。
Or perhaps she thought maybe she stole some power from Jesus。
because her understanding of how Jesus works is probably--。
it's actually informed more by superstitions and beliefs of the time,。
that holy men, when they had clothes,。
when you touch them, there's healing power in the clothes.。
So she may have thought that, "Oh, I stole power illegitimately of Jesus,。
and he's going to be angry."。
And then finally, another reason is that she had experienced healing,。
and it raises the question, "Who is Jesus?"。
Because none of those doctors could heal me, but Jesus healed me.。
And so it's like dawning on her, "Could it be that Jesus is God with us?"。
And so she's trembling and stepping in front of Jesus.。
Now, she does not know how Jesus is going to respond.。
We know because I read the story earlier, or you might know the story.。
But she does not know.。
And here's how Jesus responds.。
He said to her, "Daughter, your faith has healed you.。
Go in peace and be freed from your suffering."。
So Jesus is not angry with her touching him.。
Actually, that never made him angry because he can make people clean.。
He can restore people.。
That never bothered Jesus.。
That bothered other people.。
And through his actions, he's telling her, "You are worthy.。
You're worthy of my time.。
You're worthy of my attention.。
You're worthy of me stopping in the middle of heading to this very important person。
who is very wealthy, who has all the honor.。
You're worthy for me to stop and to give you all of my attention,。
to not let go of this moment, of this greater thing that I want to do in your life."。
And so he speaks these incredible words over her.。
"Daughter, my daughter."。
And so he's restoring her broken identity.。
She was having self-talk that said, "I'm unclean.。
I'm unworthy."。
But Jesus says, "You're worthy.。
You're my daughter."。
But that also means, "You are part of my family.。
You are part of the family of God."。
That's what Jesus says.。
"You belong.。
I love you."。
He also tells her that it is her faith that has healed her.。
So he corrects her mysterious understanding of a faith and how God works through that.。
So to answer the question, "Why did Jesus insist that she steps out?"。
Well, it's because he loves her too much to just let her walk away.。
He loves her too much to just let her have this impersonal encounter with Jesus。
and then to slip out.。
He wants her to know that she is lovable, that she is worthy.。
He wants to restore.。
He wants to bring healing where there's been emotional pain and shame。
that she's been carrying.。
So he does this beautiful healing, restoring work in her life.。
Not only that, now instead of leaving not knowing and maybe even having all these questions。
and leaving with her emotional pain, with her social pain,。
now she is part of Jesus' family, daughter.。
She's part of the family of God.。
She's leaving with a personal relationship with Jesus from this encounter.。
And that's where true and full healing is found,。
is in that personal relationship with Jesus.。
Because when we step into that relationship every time,。
it's the loving and healing presence of Jesus that wants to meet us.。
Now, where does that leave us?。
Jesus is not afraid of your pain.。
He's not afraid of your brokenness.。
He's not afraid of your sin.。
He's not afraid of your shame that you might be carrying.。
He just welcomes us to come to Him with whatever has happened in our lives,。
whatever you have done, and to open our heart to Him.。
And He calls us forth like He called forth the woman to faith, to greater faith,。
because He wants you to experience His healing, His power in your life.。
He wants you to experience His emotional healing, social healing, forgiveness from sins,。
whatever it is, physical healing.。
He calls you, calls me to step forward in faith.。
Now, a professor of mine, he says this, "Faith opens the door to the power of God."。
So when the woman decided that she believes that Jesus somehow can heal her,。
and she didn't fully understand even who He was, she didn't have a clear picture,。
but her faith was erected towards Him.。
And it was God worked through her faith.。
Faith opens the door of the power of God in our lives.。
So when we come to Jesus with faith, it opens the door of the power of God in our lives。
that brings healing and restoration.。
So how much faith do you have to have?。
Do you have to have super faith, a little bit medium faith?。
It sounds like a steak.。
A little faith?。
Or what, very well?。
No, all it takes is just faith that's enough to come to Jesus.。
It's not about your amazing and incredible faith.。
All you need is just to turn to Jesus and say, "Jesus, help!。
Help, Jesus!。
I need you!。
I need you to work in this area of my life.。
Help, Jesus!"。
Now, I want to invite the worship team to come up right now.。
I guess that was a surprise.。
Jesus wants to heal our emotional, our social pain.。
What is some of the shame and pain that you have been carrying around?。
What are some of the messages that you have internalized?。
Just like the woman had internalized, "I'm unclean, I'm unworthy."。
Like the person that was experiencing homelessness had internalized, "I'm filth."。
What are some messages that you have internalized about yourself?。
The self-talk, how you see yourself, but not how God sees you.。
Is it, "I'm a bad son. I'm a bad daughter.。
I'm a horrible parent. I'm unlovable.。
I'm just the greatest sinner."。
And Jesus, He's calling us right now to step forth in faith。
and just bring these things to Him.。
Bring these pains to Him that we have been calling ourselves,。
that we have been naming ourselves with.。
Because He wants to do His restoring and healing work.。
He wants to bring His peace, His shalom to bear on our lives.。
So what I want to do right now is I want to invite you actually to take a step of faith.。
And whatever it is that's going on in your lives,。
maybe there is emotional pain, maybe there is shame,。
maybe you feel isolated, socially cut off,。
maybe there is physical pain, I don't know.。
Whatever it is, I want to encourage you to bring that to Jesus。
and say, "Help, Jesus, I need you."。
Just to turn to Him.。
And the way I want to encourage you to do it is actually just to stretch out your hand before you,。
just as a sign, "Jesus, I just long for a deeper healing.。
I have an ache, I have a pain in my heart, and I just long to be well.。
I'm just not feeling well.。
And I know it's only you who is able to do that."。
So I want to encourage you to do that right now.。
And just start that conversation with Jesus.。
So we're going to have some space to just talk to Him.。
No one left a doctor worse than when we come to Jesus, we never leave worse.。
We always leave better when we step into the loving and the healing presence of Jesus.。
And Jesus, right now, He's speaking over our lives.。
He's saying, "Daughter, my son, my child, your faith has healed you.。
Go in peace.。
Be freed from your suffering."。
Jesus wants and is bringing deliverance from Satan's lies about you.。
Things that Satan wants you to believe, wants me to believe.。
And He wants to break the power of those lies over your life.。
And just replace it with the truth, "You are my beloved.。
You are worthy of my time.。
You are worthy of my attention.。
You are worthy."。
Let me pray over you.。
Jesus, you know every one of our lives.。
You know every one of our stories.。
You know all the things about us.。
And yet you choose to love us.。
And you hear right now the prayers that are being spoken of just pain and shame。
that we've been carrying for too long.。
And Holy Spirit, will you do the healing, the restoring, the renewing work right now.。
Will you pour out your spirit on people.。
Will you fill your sons, your daughters, your children with your spirit,。
with your loving presence, with words spoken over their lives that they need to hear.。
And will you release your healing.。
Jesus, will you release your healing over us right now.。
Like you did in this woman's life.。
Will you bring holistic healing.。
Will you bring healing to our emotional pain, our physical pain, our social pain, our mental pain.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
That you are powerful, that you are able, and that as we heard earlier, you are limitless.。
So we thank you for your healing and restoring work right now.。
In your name, Jesus. Amen.。
