Well, it's so good to see you. Many people in the room I recognize, perhaps some new people here too,。
so it's wonderful to have you with us. As Tim said, I'm Andrew, I'm the senior pastor here at The Vine,。
both in Wanchai, and we bring our greetings to you from Wanchai. We pray for you guys every week. We。
always mention Yuen Long every single Sunday, so everybody there is like, "Oh, wow, great,。
there's a fellowship in Yuen Long," and we try to encourage people to come and visit you guys,。
so I'm sure you'll see a number of us coming through here every once in a while. During worship,。
before I start preaching, I wanted to share something out of worship. During worship,。
I saw a picture for, I think, us as a community here in Yuen Long. It was a picture of a big。
padlock, you know, the sort of padlock that you might put on your luggage or something like that,。
a big, like, padlock, and I saw an old set of keys, a keychain, one of those big rings with。
rust on it, with all those big keys on it. There was about 20 or so keys on this big key ring,。
and I saw somebody desperately trying to unlock this padlock using these keys that were on this。
key ring, and they were going through them one by one, getting more desperate and more desperate。
because they couldn't seem to open the lock, and I felt like God's saying, as this person's anxiety。
was increasing, I felt like God's saying, "You need to understand that this lock only opens。
with my keys, not yours," and this person was desperately trying to use the keys that they had。
to try to bring a breakthrough in opening this lock, and God was saying, "You have to give that。
to me because there's no key. There's no key in your key ring that is going to unlock that for。
you in your life. That's only something that I can do," and my prayer for us as we go through this。
Word together today and as we spend time just praying and ministering to one another is that。
that'll become a reality for you. Maybe something I'll be sharing today, maybe something out of the。
Scripture, maybe a prayer that someone's going to pray after today, maybe a conversation for coffee。
when we finish the service. I don't know when it will happen, but I do think that God will break。
in for some of you here today where you feel a bit locked, a bit like cramped down, not able to。
break through. You've been trying everything you can do to get there. Someone's going to say。
something. Someone's going to pray something. A Scripture's going to come, and it's going to be。
like, "Oh my gosh, that's suddenly open to me," and so I want to pray that over us as a community。
before we start. Lord, I just thank you so much for every person here, and I believe that, Lord,。
you are bringing breakthrough today, and Lord, there are areas of our lives that are locked.。
I know there's areas of my life that are locked that I desperately at times want to break through。
in, and I've tried so hard, and it doesn't seem to have worked, so I know this word's for me too.。
Lord, for anyone else here who resonates with what I'm talking about, I want to pray,。
Lord, that your key would come through the power of your Spirit, for the same Spirit that raised。
Christ from the grave lives also in you, and Lord, I pray that that Spirit would unlock some things。
over people in this room today, and we pray this in Jesus' name. Everyone says. So once I met a。
murderer. I was in a maximum security prison in the Philippines. It was a woman's prison.。
I was there as part of a missions team from the Vine Church, and we'd gone to this particular。
prison to share the gospel with people that were there, and we were assigned people by random,。
and I was assigned this lady randomly, and I sat down, and there was the glass, and she sat。
on the other side of the glass. We had to pick up the telephone to talk to each other. It was just。
like the movies, but unlike the movies, as I start talking to her, the first thing she tells me,。
she says, "I'm in life for prison. Sorry, I'm in prison for life. I'm never going to get out of。
here. I'm in prison for life," she said, "because I murdered someone," and I had never heard that。
before. I had never seen a murderer before. Maybe I'd had, and I didn't know they were a murderer,。
but this is the first time someone had admitted to me that they were a murderer,。
and it changed everything, and I was so uncomfortable in that moment. Immediately,。
here's what was going through my mind. I wonder who it was that they killed. Was it their husband?。
Was it their parents? Was it a random person? I was beginning to think, "Are they an assassin?。
Were they hired to kill someone?" I then began to think, "How did they kill this person? Did they。
use a weapon? Was it their bare hands? How did they actually commit this crime?" Although I'm。
trying to talk to her, I'm thinking to myself, "I actually don't like this person," and I begin。
to judge them simply because of the fact that they were a murderer. I'm honest to God. Here's what。
this is before I was a pastor, by the way. I just want to say that, but honest to God,。
here's what went through my mind. It was this. I don't know if she deserves the gospel。
because I don't know if she's actually repentant of her crime.。
I mean, she took someone's life, and I don't know if she's worth the gospel.。
About a year and a half later, I met a U.S. dollar billionaire. U.S. dollar billionaire.。
This person was the number two in one of the most famous tech businesses in China. If I told you the。
name of this company, you would know the company. I sat next to him at this dinner, a lowly pastor。
sitting next to a U.S. dollar billionaire. I'm like, "What do I have to talk to this man about?"。
But everything about this man attracted me. I thought he was the most awesome person. I mean,。
so successful, so wealthy. I remember looking at his watch. I'm a bit passionate about watches. I。
remember glancing at his watch, staring at his watch, going, "That watch could cover my family。
for all of our lives." That's how nice that watch is. His suit was perfect. He had this perfect suit.。
As we were talking over the dinner, I found myself having a bit of a man crush on this guy.。
I wanted to be like him. He was the coolest, the nicest, the most successful and powerful man.。
I actually sat there talking with him, thinking this. If he opened his wallet right now and gave。
me some money, just like the chump change that's in his wallet, it would probably be like a million。
Hong Kong dollars. Surely a U.S. dollar billionaire has a million Hong Kong dollars just lying around。
that they would love. I was completely seduced by this man's power. I thought to myself, "This。
is who I want to be, a murderer and a U.S. dollar billionaire, two people with very different。
backgrounds that I had a very different reaction to." I would like to stand here today and tell。
you that I treated both equally through the blood of Jesus, but I did not. One, I immediately judged。
because of the failures of their past. The other, I immediately accepted because of the apparent。
success of their present. It's interesting, isn't it? Fascinating how we humans judge based on。
appearance, judge based on our understanding of someone, judge perhaps based on someone's。
background or how we perceive them. That causes us to make assumptions and judgments, which we。
almost on a daily basis, sometimes consciously, sometimes subconsciously, that we make of people。
all the time. If you were to be in my position right now and stand on this stage and look at。
all of you right now, you would also be making judgments of everybody in this room. I'm judging。
you. No, I'm not judging you right now. But we so easily do this as human beings.。
And the Apostle Paul, as he's writing this letter to the churches in Galatia,。
this is the pressure that he's under. He's being judged. He's being judged, as Pastor Tim explained。
last week in our kickoff to this series, by these distractors who are now trying to say in the。
churches of Galatia that Paul is a false prophet, that he's not a true apostle. And they're trying。
to discredit his ministry, trying to pull down his authority. And they're doing that by sort of。
saying, look, he only gave you half the gospel. This idea of coming to faith in Christ by just。
grace alone. Sure, that's part of it. But you also need to become more Jewish. You Gentiles need to。
adhere to the Jewish festivals. You need to adhere to the Sabbath every week. And if you're male here,。
you need to be circumcised. And Paul, he didn't tell you the whole picture because he was people。
pleasing. He wanted you to tickle your ears and just make you feel good. But actually, the true。
gospel, the whole gospel is this. And they're sowing division within the church because they're。
making a judgment on Paul. They're judging Paul for two very important reasons. First of all,。
they believe that he does not have the credentials that the other apostles and disciples had.。
They know that he wasn't with Jesus, that he didn't minister with him for a couple of years and。
see them at his death and meet him in his resurrection. They know that Paul was not。
there like Peter was, like James was, like John was. He didn't have the credentials.。
The other thing they were judging him from, and this is a very important thing, because of his。
past, because of his background, if you will, because of his resume. See, they knew that Paul。
had actually crushed the church, had persecuted the church. They knew that Paul had been a murderer。
himself in the sense of being there, adhering to this stoning of Stephen. They knew that this all。
rolled back up to Paul. And they looked at that and they said, "This man needs to have a background。
that's worthy of the gospel. He needs to have a background that proves the goodness of God.。
Look at his background. His background does not add up." And they judged him because of his past.。
In their eyes, Paul was the murderer in prison. They were the U.S. dollar billionaires.。
Resumes are fascinating things, aren't they? Every single one of us has one. And unfortunately,。
with the world that we live in today, we all need them. My first job out of university was。
a recruitment consultant. You could argue that I'm an expert on resumes. I spent the first three。
years of my working life poring over every person who's sent in an application to work with us as a。
recruitment consultant. I looked at their resumes. I was an expert at taking someone's resume and。
saying, "Okay, you're applying for this finance job over here. Let me take your background and let。
me massage it and manipulate it. You need to put this line first. You need to put that job down。
here. You need to emphasize what you did here. You need to actually not emphasize that. Nobody。
wants to hear about that. But for this job, this is the thing you need." And I was an expert at。
taking someone's background and making them sound so much better than they actually were.。
I was really good at actually helping people to get the jobs that they wanted because that's the。
way the world works. You get a job because you've got the right kind of experience, the right kind。
of background, because you've got the right kind of skill sets. And we're so ingrained to thinking。
that that's the way the world works that we so often think that that's the way the church should。
work. That's the way the kingdom should work. When we have to actually realize that God operates in。
a very different way to that. You need to understand this right up front. God has a very。
different perception about who he sees as worthy within his kingdom. You need to know that God does。
not look at the same kind of resumes that we look at. In fact, the only resume that God has ever。
needed is his son, Jesus Christ. When God is choosing people to use in his kingdom,。
he doesn't look at their resume. He looks at Jesus' resume. And because of what Jesus has。
accomplished in his life, in his death, in his resurrection, because Jesus has paid that price。
for sin and broken through, because Jesus has sent the Holy Spirit to people and made them righteous。
because of the work of the cross. God, when he's choosing people to work with in the kingdom,。
he looks through the resume, the background, the blood of Christ Jesus. And he says that you are。
worthy, not because of your background, not because of your skill set, not because of some certain。
thing. You are only worthy because Jesus has made you worthy on the cross. And his resurrection。
provides now the place for you to flourish. God is not the great HR manager in the sky。
looking at your background and seeing whether you add up.。
God, his arms are open to all of us. And I think there are some of you in this room here today。
where you're embarrassed about your background, where there have been some things that have。
happened in your life, some things that have taken place, maybe in some recent history,。
or maybe in some further away history. And you're ashamed, you're embarrassed.。
And because of that, your life in Christ, I would say, has the handbrake on. Do you know what I mean。
by that? Like if you're in a car trying to drive and the handbrake's on. I feel like some of you。
in this room, your life in Christ, it's like the handbrake is on because you've not been able to。
let go of some of that brokenness in your past. And I hope that what I share today might set some。
of you free from what I think is one of the enemy's greatest strategies over the church,。
and that is to make you feel like because of something you've done before that you are no。
longer worthy. But actually, God wants to turn that completely upside down. You see,。
true freedom in Christ is found knowing that we approach God with Jesus's resume and not our own.。
That's where true freedom is found. And because that's where true freedom is found,。
is we really understand that. Not just understand it here, but truly understand it here.。
We're able to become the people that Christ has called us to be. And Paul, as he's about to start。
the defense of his gospel and the defense of his ministry from halfway through chapter one for the。
rest of the letter, he's going to defend it all. He starts what we're looking at with today. He's。
going to start by helping his church to understand that they need to rethink the idea of their。
resume. I want to show you this because it's really beautiful what Paul does here. He says in。
Galatians 1, starting in verse 11, he says, "I want you to know, brothers and sisters, that the gospel。
I preach to you is not something that I made up. I did not receive it from any person, nor was I。
taught it. Rather, I received it by revelation from Jesus Christ. For you've heard of my previous way。
of life in Judaism, how intensely I persecuted the church of God and tried to destroy it. I was。
advancing in Judaism beyond many of the Jews of my own age and was extremely zealous for the。
traditions of my father. But when God, who set me apart from birth and called me by his grace,。
was pleased to reveal his son in me so that I might preach him among the Gentiles,。
I did not consult any person, nor did I go to Jerusalem to see those who were apostles before。
I was. But I went immediately to Arabia and later returned to Damascus." Father, as we open up this。
passage here together this morning, I want to pray that you would open us, Lord. You would set free。
those of us that feel like the handbrake is on. Lord, I pray that that would be for your glory.。
And we pray this in Jesus' name, everyone says. It's really beautiful how Paul starts this. I want。
you to see how he starts his defense of his ministry. He says, "The first thing you need。
to understand is that this ministry didn't come to me because I sat in some seminar for like six。
weeks. It didn't come to me because I went to some seminary school or I even sat with the disciples。
for years and years and years. No, this came only from revelation of Jesus Christ. Jesus himself,。
he says, revealed the gospel to me." Now, the emphasis that he's putting on revelation here。
literally means it is a personal thing. I have fully understood it. It's not something, again,。
that I've got secondhand from someone. It's only come from Christ. And he wants the church to。
understand that this is a revelation, which means he did not earn it. It's like the first thing he's。
saying to his church is, "This is not because I'm some good person. This is not because I'm like what。
the distractors are trying to say the gospel person should be like, perfect and holy and wonderful."。
He's like, "I didn't get the gospel because I earned it, because I proved to God that I was。
worthy of it. It came by revelation from him. It didn't come because I had done something right.。
It literally just came as like a download from him." And the reason why that's important is。
because he's talking about the source of that revelation. He's like, "It came from Jesus.。
It didn't come from Peter, James, John," as important as they are. "This actually came from。
Jesus himself. He spoke to me directly and he gave me the gospel. And because I know that it's from。
Christ," he says, "this has not just transformed me, but the gospel that I bring you is directly。
from the source. It's not being filtered in any other way like the distractors were trying to。
argue to the churches." He's saying, "No, this came from Jesus. So it's pure, it's direct. And。
what I give to you, I pass on to you because he has given to me." Tim actually read that from our。
passage in Corinthians, didn't he? "What I received from Christ, I now pass on to you." When he was。
doing the Lord's Supper, he's saying the same thing here. "What I received from Christ, I'm now。
passing on to you, you people in the churches of Galatia." And he says this really interesting。
thing because what he's doing here is he's talking about his conversion. He's talking about that。
moment where he met Jesus on the road to Damascus. You can read this later in Acts chapter 9, in Luke's。
description of that moment. You can read it in Paul's own words in Acts 22 and Acts 26. But we。
kind of know the story. He's walking on the road to Damascus, going to kill and persecute Christians。
there. And Jesus appears to him, revelatorily appears to him, literally in a blinding light。
that so blinds Paul. And Jesus says, "Why are you persecuting me? Why are you attacking my church?"。
And he's like, "Who are you, Lord?" And he's like, "The one that you are persecuting. I am the Christ."。
And Paul has this incredible transformative moment then. And it's so radically transformed. He's。
actually blinded by the light. It's only a few days later when another disciple, an Ananias, comes and。
prays for him. Scales fall from his eyes and he's able to see again. And this is like a metaphor for。
Paul about how he was blind before in his Jewish understanding and now could see the truth as it。
was. That's the revelation he's speaking about here. I have received this revelation that's come。
from Christ and it happened dramatically in that moment. In fact, in the passage here, he actually。
describes a little bit of this moment. He says from verse 13, "For you have heard of my previous。
way of life in Judaism, how I intensely persecuted the church of God and tried to destroy it. I was。
advancing in Judaism beyond many of the Jews of my own age, and I was extremely zealous for the。
traditions of my fathers." Notice this. This is the exact background that the distractors were。
using to argue that Paul was not worthy of the gospel. They're saying, "Hey, because of what he。
did to the church before, how could you ever trust this guy?" And you would think that if Paul was。
smart, he would then shove that to the side and pretend like maybe that never happened. Maybe he。
had never bring that up. "I can't tell my church about my background and my history. That would be。
really bad." He doesn't do it. He doesn't respond that way. In fact, he does the opposite of what。
his distractors were thinking he was going to do. He puts it up there plain for them to read.。
He says, "You know, here's my background. Yes, I persecuted Christians. Yes, I tried to bring down。
the church. Yes, I was zealous for the faith before. Everything they told you about me,。
a hundred percent true." And the question we should be asking ourselves is, "Why is Paul doing this?。
Why isn't he burying and hiding his past?" Because if we're honest with ourselves, that's what we do,。
isn't it? I mean, when we've screwed up in the past and we've done stuff that we're not proud of,。
we kind of just don't want to talk about that stuff anymore. We just kind of pretend like that。
never happened. And we put on a front before people that shows anything other than the truth。
of what may have happened. Paul doesn't go and play those games. He says, "You want to know about。
me? This is me." And the reason why he's doing that is because the distractors were arguing,。
"Because this is Paul, he's not worthy." Paul flips it around and he says, "Because this is me,。
I am worthy." He's saying, "My brokenness and my background, oh, I am the worst of all people.。
My background actually doesn't discount the gospel, it shines the gospel." Because if I can。
now stand before you, Paul is saying, and preach the gospel, having had that background, surely。
that shows you the power that there is in the gospel. He says, "I'm not going to bury my past.。
I'm not going to pretend like it never happened. I'm going to put it on display before you so you。
can see not anything about me, but you can see how God can come and transform people." Paul。
understood this, that Jesus can take the worst of all people, the worst of all sinners, and so。
transform them that they can become a living testimony of the grace and the forgiveness of。
a God who loves. Come on, church. This is his heart. This is his passion. He's like, "I'm not。
going to be embarrassed about that background. Sure, God wasn't proud of the fact that I was。
persecuting his church." He's like, "God wasn't happy with me." He's not trying to sort of pretend。
like that didn't have an impact. He's not trying to pretend like that wasn't sinful, but he's putting。
it up there to say, "Look at how sinful I was, and yet there's transformation that is found in the。
gospel. And if I can now stand before you and be of any hope to you today, it's because God has done。
it all." It's a beautiful thing. It's a powerful thought that actually the darkest parts of our。
journeys become the place where the power of the gospel is seen the most, and that should set some。
of you here free. Because sometimes that brokenness we want to bury, when actually that brokenness。
reveals the gospel more than anything else. Not that we revel in our brokenness, but that we。
recognize how far we've come. Oh man, if Jesus was not in my life, I can't even tell you what I might。
be like. He uses these words here as he goes on. So he's just said basically, "Here's all the bad。
stuff I've done, but I want you to understand it because it reveals the power of the gospel."。
Then he says this, verse 15, "But when God, who set me apart from birth and called me by his grace,"。
notice how he starts here, he says, "But when God," this is the crux and the heart of every testimony.。
He says, "Here's all the stuff that I've done. Here's all the background. Here's all the。
brokenness. Here's the persecution of the church. Here's all the zealousness I've had to the Jewish。
faith. But when God stepped in, when God met me on that road to Damascus, when he revealed his light。
and his glory to me, my whole life changed at that moment." And he wants to draw his church to focus。
on these words, "But when God," which really is this example of him saying, "This is what God does.。
When God steps in, he can take people who have got such broken backgrounds and reveal his love。
and his grace to them and so transform them that they then become these living examples of what。
that grace is all about in the world. But when God stepped in are perhaps the three greatest words。
that they're found in scripture. But when God," because Paul's convinced that God is able to save。
sinners and make enemies his children. That's what God does. He saves sinners and he makes enemies。
his children. That's the love of God. And Paul wants his church to understand that his qualification。
to preach the gospel is not because he's lived some perfect life. His qualification to preach。
the gospel is because he's lived such a bad life, but God didn't leave him in that place. But when。
God stepped in, everything changed. And these words, "But when God," becomes the centerpiece。
of what biblical redemptive history is all about. You just need to look at the pages of the Bible。
to see story after story of men and women who had broken and hurting and bad past. But when God。
stepped in, everything changed at that point. I mean, if Moses was standing here right now,。
he would say this to you. He'd say, "I was walking in a desert, feeling so distraught about my。
confused identity. I didn't know if I was a Jewish man or whether I was a prince of Egypt. And I was。
so confused about who I was that I was lost and wandering for years. But when God met me in a。
burning bush, he began to speak to me about who I truly am and my whole life changed." Isaiah,。
if he was standing here right now, he would say something like this to you. He would say, "I。
thought I could do nothing. I just thought I was a farmer, that I had nothing to offer in this world.。
But when God gave me a vision, and in that vision, I saw coals burning on a fire and some tongues。
that came and took the coal and touched my lips, I knew that I was holy, not because of anything I。
had done, but because I'd been made holy by him. And then I could speak." If Peter was standing。
here right now, he would say, "I'm ashamed because I walked with him as one of his best friends.。
And I thought I knew everything about him, and I thought I would always love him. But when he。
got arrested, I denied him three times. And I was so ashamed by what I had done that I retreated。
back to my old life as a fisherman. But when God, who sent Jesus to me again, and we had breakfast。
on the beach, and he told me that he loved me, everything changed in that moment. But when God."。
And so I can stand here before you and tell you that I was a lost teenager who was wrapped up here。
in Hong Kong in an expat lifestyle, provided by my father who worked in a really wealthy bank,。
and my father who had a great job, and us who had a lovely lifestyle. And I had become so dependent。
on it, and to be honest with you, so proud about it, that I felt like I didn't need anything else。
in my life other than my father's checkbook. But when God spoke to my father and told him to give。
up his high-paid job and go and work in a local orphanage for no money at all, and we lost our。
really nice house, and we were living now in a 200-square-foot apartment with 100 orphans,。
God broke into the pride and began to speak to me of another way that we could live. But。
when God. What is your "but when God" moment? For your "but when God" moment will become the。
very thing where you will see the power of the gospel revealed in your story. That's where it。
happens. Every single one of us has it. Every single one of us has one of those moments, and。
Paul is willing to stand before his church and say, "Here's all the stuff that happened. Here's。
all the stuff that, to be honest with you, I'm not super proud about, but it's the reality of my story.。
But here's what I want you to know. God stepped in, and when God stepped in, that's the power of the。
gospel. That's the story that really matters. That's the pivot point of all of history." And。
Paul's saying, "That's your story, too. That's your journey as well." And I love it because he。
carries on. See what he does next. He says, "But when God," and then he says this, "who set me apart。
from birth," I love this one. Let me preach on this for a moment. "Set me apart from birth." He doesn't。
say, "But when God decided to love me on the Damascus road." He doesn't say that the moment。
when God decided to break into his life happened on that road to Damascus. Paul's not saying, "The。
reason why God changed my life is because he knew where I was going into the city of Damascus, and。
he didn't want any of that to happen. So he decided this was the right moment to change everything."。
No, he says, "You want to know when Jesus, when God decided to change my life, it happened when I was。
born, because he decided at the moment of my birth to set me apart," he says. That word he uses in the。
Greek is the same word that's used for holiness, this idea of being set apart in Christ, being。
holy before him. It's amazing to me that Paul is not saying to the church, "God hated me, hated me,。
hated me, hated me, hated me, hated me, hated me, and then he decided to come into my life and change。
my life." He says, "God came into my life and changed my life, but he loved me from the start.。
He chose me from the start. He set me aside from birth." And for Paul, that was really important,。
because he understood that all the stuff that he had done in between, all that stuff was really bad,。
but it wasn't that God sort of suddenly decided to make a thing of his life. God had set him aside。
from the very beginning. Some of you in this room, that's going to set you free today,。
because perhaps you're thinking, "Man, man, God only decided to love me last year when I got。
baptized," or, "I didn't know anything about God, and then I came to knowledge of God, and I'm so。
glad that God chose me three years ago." I want to say a biblical truth over you. You, if you're a。
Christian in this room, were set apart from birth, that God saw you and knew you and desired for you。
to be in his kingdom, and he set you aside, that holiness idea from birth. That doesn't mean that。
everything we've done in our lives has always been holy. It doesn't mean that everything we've done。
in our lives has been pleasing to God. Absolutely not. There's a lot of stuff in Paul's background。
that wasn't pleasing to God, but he understood that God chose him in love from the start.。
And some of you in this room, that should set you free, just that thought。
that he chose you from the beginning, that nothing, therefore, in your life is wasted.。
No matter how hard it's been, how painful it's been, how sinful it's been, how broken it's been,。
none of it is wasted. Paul's basically saying this. By saying, "He chose me from birth," what。
he's saying is, "Nothing that happened, none of the persecution of Christians, none of the stuff。
that I did against the church, none of that disqualifies me from what I'm doing today,。
none of that knocked me off the path of his love, because he decided right at the start to love me。
before I did anything." This reminds you of that moment of Jesus' baptism, where God shows up and。
says, "This is my son, whom I love. With him, I am well pleased." Before Jesus does anything,。
no teaching, hadn't done any teaching, hadn't done any miracles, was not known by anyone at。
this point. Before Jesus did anything, God shows up and says right at the start, "You are loved."。
And Paul says, "Isn't it a wonderful thought for us as Christians that we were set aside from birth。
and that nothing that has ever happened in the middle has ever disqualified us from the wonder。
that is there in him?" Some of you in this room, you really struggle with this. And as a pastor,。
I spend a lot of my time with people, with Christians, who basically say, "Oh, pastor,。
I know God loves me, and I know he saved me, but I know that I'm on plan B for my life now. I'm on。
plan C or plan D or plan E, because if you had known what I was like beforehand, man, there's。
no way that God can use me like he uses other people in the church. There's no way he can use。
me like he uses other people out there. I mean, those people are special people. They're the ones。
that have never sinned. They're the ones that have lived a perfect life. They're the ones that have。
had life just wonderfully. And of course, they're gifted. Of course, they're anointed. Of course,。
they have authority. But if you understood my background, you would understand that I just。
need to be quiet. You need to understand that I know that my life is not really going to amount。
to anything. I'm grateful that he loves me, that he saved me, but basically, I'm on plan D, E.。
I want to stand before you today and say that is a lie from the enemy. Every single one of you,。
if you believe that Jesus is your Lord and Savior, you have been set free from whatever past and。
whatever sin and whatever brokenness that has happened in the past. You were chosen from birth。
and God came into your life at whatever time that was, but when God and stepped into your life,。
but nothing ever knocked you off course. And while of course, there was pain and hurt and。
brokenness and consequences to that sin in that part of your life, it has not disqualified you。
from authority, from anointing, or from the calling of the gospel. It has not taken it from。
you. And I think one of the lies of the enemy that is one of the strongest in the church today。
is Christians with the handbrake on because they think their sin in their past is holding them back。
from the authority, anointing, and calling of God. Your authority, your anointing, and your call from。
God has been given to you from birth and nothing Satan has ever done over you, ever has removed it。
from you, never has removed it from you. Is everybody okay? This should fill your heart。
with worship. I mean, this should fill you with such gratitude and such joy. Paul puts it this。
way as he's trying to kind of express his joy. He says, "Now, but when God who set me apart from。
birth and called me by his grace was pleased to reveal his son in me." Was pleased to reveal。
his son in me. Isn't that a beautiful thing? He said, "He was pleased. I didn't twist his arm.。
I didn't have to try to clean up my life and get myself perfect again before he was pleased.。
I didn't have to prove myself to him. Even in that moment of heading towards persecuting the church,。
he was pleased to reveal revelation, his gospel in me, in me, in the brokenness, in the darkness,。
in the sin, in the persecution. He was willing to reveal himself in me so that I might show。
the power of the gospel that transforms even the darkest of sinners like me." He says, "You want。
to know what my resume is? That's my resume," he says to the church. "My resume is not one that。
anybody would be proud of, but it reveals the power of the gospel. And if he's done it for me,。
he can also do it for you." So some of you here, some of you here, the challenge in this passage。
is to think about others. Because some of you here, you judge too easily the other around you.。
And like I said at the start of my talk, man, we all do that, don't we? But some of you have。
found it easy for you to judge the people around you, maybe judge even the people in this church。
community. You've made judgments about their authority, their anointing, about their abilities。
in Christ, simply because of a rumor you've heard about them or something you've thought about them,。
or maybe something you've seen and you've judged just because of the appearance of things.。
We don't have time to look at it now, but Paul just later in chapter 2, he actually says,。
"We don't judge by the external appearance of things." God does not judge that way,。
but we so often judge that way. And some of you here today, that's what God's calling you to deal。
with today. He's going to invite you to a place of repenting before Him from the way that you so。
easily judge your brothers and your sisters and the people around your life. But I think for many。
of us, it's this thing. It's not just how you're thinking of others, it's actually how you're。
thinking about yourself. And there's a lot of us in this room where we have not released ourselves。
to the work of the kingdom in the way that we truly should do, because we place that handbrake。
on, because we're still punishing ourselves from our mistakes in the past, thinking that God is。
holding that over us when God has set you free. And because you are set free, you can receive the。
fullness of His ministry, the fullness of His authority, the fullness of His calling. It is。
for you. I wish I could meet that lady in the prison again. And I wish I could pick up that。
phone and sit, stare at her through that glass and not have that judgmental attitude I had before。
because of her background, but actually go, "You are worthy. You're worthy of the gospel.。
And you're worthy of the gospel. I'm worthy of the gospel. All of us are worthy of the gospel."。
And if only we could release ourselves to be the fullness of what Christ has created us to be,。
and to cheer each other on in a place that doesn't judge, but in a place that says, "Because。
Christ has died and raised again, no matter what it is, you have been set aside from birth.。
God has changed your life. Let's now go." Isn't that a beautiful thing? That's what Paul wants.。
And I want to pray that over you here today. I wonder whether you would stand with me as we。
come to a time of prayer. And maybe as we stand, we can just quieten our hearts now。
and just allow the Holy Spirit just to minister to you。
right where the Holy Spirit needs to minister to you today.。
Perhaps it's that picture of the lock and the keys,。
and Jesus is inviting you to let go of your strategies and your abilities, the things。
of your resume, and allow Him to step in and do what only He can do.。
Perhaps for some of you, it's this area of judging others, just like I did with that woman that time.。
Maybe you find yourself judging your colleagues, your family members,。
even people in this church community. The Lord wants to set you free from a judgmental attitude。
so that you can receive peace. Because when we judge others, it is a place of anxiety and stress.。
It is a place of comparison and bitterness. And our judgment of others causes that to be in our。
hearts, and the Lord wants to set you free from that today. He wants to give you peace.。
But I think for many of us, it's this area of truly being set free of the way that we see ourselves.。
You are not disqualified. You are not on plan B.。
And Paul has to stand before his church and say, "God chose me from birth. Sure, I did some bad。
things, but when God stepped in, everything changed." And that's the power of the gospel,。
and some of you need to receive that personally today. That you were called and loved from birth,。
and sure, you've done some things over your life, and you've made some choices,。
and you've messed up, and there's been sin. And perhaps for some of us, there's still。
ripe sin that's happening right now. But when God stepped in and revealed the gospel to you,。
everything changed in that moment. And you are not on plan B. You are still in the authority,。
and the anointing, and the calling of God. The gospel is true in you, and the power of the。
gospel has been seen by the transformation that has happened within you. For the Lord was pleased。
to reveal himself to you. He wasn't angry, upset, or held back. He was so pleased to transform your。
life with the gospel. And I believe that the Holy Spirit wants to set some of you free from。
the condemnation that you've been placing upon yourself, so that you can walk into the freedom。
that comes in knowing that Christ has forgiven and set you free. Lord, I would just pray for anyone。
here, and if that's for you here this morning, just whilst our eyes are closed, I just want。
to invite you to open your hand before you. By opening your hands before you, it's just something。
we do here at the Vine that shows a submissive heart and attitude towards the Holy Spirit.。
By opening our hands, it's our way of saying, "Lord, would you come?。
And I want you to deal by your spirit in some things in me, in my life。
here today. I want to respond to this word, and I want to receive from you. Lord,。
I want to pray for every person here whose hands are open now. Father, I want to pray that you would。
speak words of life, encouragement, and love to each one. Father, I want to pray that you would。
release, Lord, vision, excitement, and passion for the future. As I'm praying, I just sense that some。
of you here, there's been a time where you felt depressed, you felt weighed down, you felt like。
you don't have a spring in your step, you don't have excitement for the future. And as I'm praying,。
I believe that the Holy Spirit, like Paul, who had scales fall from his eyes so he could truly see。
what it is that Christ has done for him. I want to pray for some of you here right now. It feels。
like you're in a dark place. It feels like you can't see properly. It feels like you're worn out。
and exhausted, and you don't have hope for the future. I want to pray that scales would fall。
from your eyes today by the power of the Spirit so that you could see, see the wonder of his heart。
for you, how much he loves you, and the release by the Spirit that he's placing upon you.。
So come, Holy Spirit, come. Come, Holy Spirit, come. Come, Holy Spirit, come. We're going to let。
the worship team just minister to us, but I want to encourage you just maybe to let the worship team。
just worship over you. I want to encourage you not to have to rush from this moment.。
Just invite and allow, if your hands are open, just invite and allow the Holy Spirit to continue,。
just to come and speak to you and comfort you and set you free.。
