>> [APPLAUSE]。
>> You do a wonderful job service leading us.。
Well, when I was in my mid-20s,。
I actually really struggled a lot with receiving God's love,。
and really believing that he forgives me,。
that he forgives me for my failures.。
And so I was really stuck in this shame.。
I was very focused on this gap from where I was and where I wanted to be,。
and that was just very present before me.。
So I don't know if anyone here can relate to that,。
if you experienced that, that you felt that.。
And perhaps it's some specific sin,。
a big thing that happened a long time ago。
that just sort of is like a cloud hovering over your head.。
Maybe it's like accumulation of just things where you know you're not who you want to be,。
and it's just hanging there.。
But you know what happens when we feel this way,。
when we struggle to receive God's love,。
when we struggle to receive his forgiveness,。
it actually is hard for us to just be free to worship him,。
to enjoy him, to praise him, to live a life to serve him.。
Right? I think so.。
So what I want to do with you today,。
I want to explore with you a question,。
and here's the question.。
How can we experience freedom and encouragement to worship God wholeheartedly?。
How can we be set free from this cloud that might be hanging over you,。
that's weighing you down,。
so you can enjoy God and be just free to bring him glory,。
to worship him,。
and that you can just live in this love of God,。
that you can just move in that,。
that you know you are loved,。
that you can know, in honor of Francesca,。
that you are beautiful,。
that God has made you,。
and when he created us, he said that humans are very good,。
and he restores us,。
he brings wholeness to us,。
and so he desires for his people,。
for us as a church family,。
but also for you as an individual,。
just be free to worship him,。
to praise him,。
to love him with your life,。
to love him back for all that he has done.。
Now we're going to explore this question of how we can move into this freedom,。
and into this encouragement,。
we're going to explore that by looking at the book of Hebrews.。
Now Hebrews, I want to just set a little bit of context before we go into more detail,。
and of course there's a joke about Hebrews, coffee, and all that,。
but I want to set a little bit of context for this,。
and so the book of Hebrews was written to a Jewish Christian community,。
and actually uses a lot of things that Jewish people would be familiar with,。
which for us maybe were a little bit more removed,。
especially if we're not that familiar with the Bible,。
so it takes a little bit more work to perhaps understand everything that the author is saying,。
and what the author of Hebrews does,。
he actually spends a lot of time explaining the significance of Jesus' sacrifice,。
and Jesus' priesthood,。
and then unpacks the implications of that,。
and actually after he has done that for six chapters basically,。
that's the part where we're going to pick up,。
so he's just spent forever,。
like a very long time unpacking the significance of Jesus' sacrifice,。
for the forgiveness of our sins,。
and Jesus' priesthood, that he is our high priest,。
and then it goes into this passage,。
so let me take you to Hebrews 10,。
we're starting in verse 19, it says this,。
"Therefore, brothers and sisters, since we have confidence to enter the most holy place by the blood of Jesus,。
by a new and living way open for us through the curtain that is his body,。
and since we have a great priest over the house of God,。
let us draw near to God with a sincere heart and with full of assurance that faith brings,。
having a heart sprinkled to cleanse us from guilty conscience,。
and having our bodies washed with pure water.。
Let us hold unswervingly to the hope we profess,。
for he who promises is faithful.。
And let us consider how we may spur one another on towards love and good deeds,。
not giving up meeting together as some are in the habit of doing,。
but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day approaching."。
Now, one of the crises that the author of Hebrews is addressing。
is actually that part of that Jewish-Christian community,。
that they were starting to stop meeting with one another.。
They started to stop gathering.。
It was becoming a habit. Actually, it was 25, if you look at it.。
He's saying to not giving up meeting together as some are in the habit of doing.。
So that's part of his encouragement to them.。
Now, what leads us to stop meeting together?。
Well, for some of us, maybe we just wonder what's the relevance about getting together in church here on a Sunday morning.。
I could go fishing. I could sleep on a Sunday morning, watch Netflix.。
Everybody has their own thing. Why gather? Why come together?。
Why is this important? Why is this significant?。
For others of us, as I was sharing earlier, when I was young, I struggled with feeling forgiven,。
and I just had this sin and shame hang over me.。
And so when I came to church, it kind of reminded me of that.。
So there was also a little bit of a hindrance by that.。
It didn't feel good to come because of where I was myself.。
For others, maybe you're not from a Christian family.。
Maybe there's social pressure from friends, from family that says they don't want you to come.。
So you just give in to that.。
And I've also had a period in my life where I had gone through something that really knocked me off my feet.。
And so coming to church was difficult because every time I came, I was crying.。
I was weeping, and then people asking me questions, "How are you doing?"。
And I don't want to talk about how I'm doing because I'm going to cry.。
And so I didn't really want to come.。
So my strategy, by the way, this is a strategy, but only use it if you're feeling this way,。
because you come a little bit late to the service and you leave a little bit early to avoid all those questions.。
But if you're feeling good, don't use that.。
If you're feeling good, don't use that as an excuse.。
We want you to be on time because God wants to work through all that we do in your life.。
So those are some of the reasons.。
But how does the author of Hebrews, how does he encourage people, and how does he make his case for why do we need to gather?。
Why is it so important that we come together to worship God?。
What's the big deal?。
So I want to look with you first at how God, through this author of Hebrews, encourages us to gather。
and then also look at the specific things that he encourages us to do.。
So first, if you look at verse 19, it says, it starts with "therefore."。
And "therefore" is always an indicator that the author is referring to something that has happened before.。
So one of the typical preacher statements is, "What's the therefore there for?"。
This was my dad joke for the day.。
And so when you see that, well, what was happening beforehand?。
Well, actually, the author from Hebrews, he starts moving into what he wants them now to do in light of all that Jesus has done。
through offering the sacrifice and being the high priest.。
So he wants to get into that, but he gets so excited he actually circles back and gives a summary statement.。
So I want to look with you at this summary statement in verse 19.。
"Therefore, brothers and sisters, since we have confidence to enter the most holy place by the blood of Jesus,。
by a new and living way, open for us through the curtain that is his body,。
and since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near."。
So he circles back to the sacrifice of Jesus, talks about his blood, talks about his body,。
but he does so by referring to also things in the temple or in the tabernacle,。
the most holy place or the curtain.。
Now I want to unpack this a little bit.。
So the author of Hebrews, he highlights the sacrifice of Jesus to us,。
and he does so by using some imagery.。
So I want to show you an image from the tabernacle.。
I don't know if you can read this.。
So basically the tabernacle was when Israel walked during the Exodus,。
and then later on they had the temple, so this is a drawing of what the tabernacle layout probably was.。
And so here you see this is the holy place,。
and then here is a division that is a curtain.。
And that curtain separated the holy of holies or the most holy place.。
And then up here, that is the Ark of the Covenant.。
In there you have the Ten Commandments, the tablets where Moses recorded them,。
and they're in there.。
And so our passage references this, that we have, because of the blood of Jesus,。
we can go to the holy of holies.。
But I want to talk a little bit about the history behind this.。
So the priest, the high priest, actually could only go into this space one day a year.。
And that was only the high priest.。
Because nobody else could just go in there.。
If they did, they would die.。
Because God is holy.。
And you could not just approach God without addressing our sin and our brokenness.。
And so on the Day of Atonement, or Yom Kippur, Israel, the high priest offered some sacrifices,。
and then he went into the holy of holies, that was part of the procedure.。
They had a goat, actually had two goats, one was sacrificed, the other one,。
the high priest laid the hand on and confessed all of Israel's sins,。
and the goat was paraded through Jerusalem and then was driven out as a symbol of。
that God was removing the sin from Israel to restore, to renew the relationship between God and his people.。
Now the good news was, this was a big deal, that God would restore the relationship with people,。
that he would dwell among his people, and I should say this, this was the place where God chose to make his presence known.。
So it's also called the Tent of Meeting, the tabernacle.。
But the bad news, so the good news was that the relationship was restored,。
the bad news was that this needed to be repeated over and over and over again.。
Every year, animals had to be sacrificed, the high priest had to go in, they had to go through this procedure.。
Now this was a provision from God, but it pointed forward towards what Jesus would do,。
and this is what the author of Hebrews so super unpacks.。
But the big difference is with Jesus' sacrifice, with Jesus dying for our sins on the cross,。
laying down his life for our sake, was that it is once that Jesus died for all of our sins, once and for all.。
Jesus died for all our sins, once and for all.。
And this once and for all is significant, and the author of Hebrews, he keeps emphasizing this,。
and I'm just going to show you some examples, not even all.。
So in Hebrews 7, 27 says, "He has no need like those high priests to offer sacrifices daily,。
first for his own sins and then for those of the people, since he did this once for all when he offered up himself."。
Hebrews 9, verse 12, "He entered once for all into the holy place,。
not by means of blood of goats and calves," which was what was offered on the Day of Atonement,。
"but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption."。
And then Hebrews 9, verse 26 says this, "For then he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the foundation of the world.。
But as it is, he has appeared once for all at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself."。
So if you have turned to Jesus for forgiveness, he once and for all has forgiven you.。
And that is true. You are forgiven.。
And that doesn't change.。
It's like your status doesn't keep changing from being forgiven and unforgiven.。
Jesus has forgiven for you. This is the finality of the cross.。
You don't move back and forth between now you're justified and you're part of the family of God.。
Oh, now you're not. Now you are. Now you're not.。
No, Jesus has dealt with your sin once and for all.。
And that is incredible because he has removed our brokenness, our sin that stood between us and him so we can have relationship with him.。
Now this is hard to let settle, that Jesus forgave us once and for all.。
To all who, when you become a Christian, you know the two things are repentance, turning away from your old life and saying,。
"Jesus, I want to follow you. I want to live your way." And then faith that we trust in Jesus.。
And this is what has happened.。
Now, I shared earlier that I struggled with receiving and accepting Jesus' forgiveness.。
I struggled with living in this forgiveness and love.。
You know what that actually really means is that I said to myself that Jesus' forgiveness depends on me and on what I do.。
It actually depends on my performance, on how good I act or how many times I confess and all of that.。
But that's not true.。
So instead of accepting and receiving what Jesus has done, I put myself into this role of like,。
"I need to work harder to be more perfect so that I'm acceptable, so that I'm forgiven."。
But Jesus already had forgiven me.。
Now, of course, we still need to clear up things when we do sin against God.。
And as Jesus followers, as Christians, we still do that.。
We still come and we confess.。
And there is something in that where he removes or restores a relationship in a new way, removes barriers and things.。
But we are forgiven once and for all.。
And the only way we realize that is actually when God makes that known to us, when he reveals that to us.。
And when we can just receive this love and forgiveness and where he can free us to experience this removal of our sin,。
this removal of shame, and where we can just live in that freedom.。
And so we cannot conjure that up out of our own strength, but this is something that God wants to do.。
He has forgiven you. He loves you.。
It's not based on your performance, it's based on what he did.。
And so the author of Hebrews, he's hammering this point home over and over again, once and for all, once and for all, once and for all.。
And he is encouraging the Jewish Christian community to keep meeting.。
Now there's another part to it.。
Because when Jesus, as it describes, and can we go to the next slide please?。
Okay.。
I want to take a step back a little bit.。
So Jesus talks about, or in Hebrews it talks about that Jesus, because of his blood, we can now confidently enter the most holy place.。
You know that means because of what he has done, we can confidently come into his presence.。
There's nothing that separates us anymore from his presence.。
Just remember, the high priest could only go into God's presence once a year after going through all these rituals.。
But because of what Jesus has done, we can come into his presence.。
We have access.。
Another part was that it talks about Jesus' body sort of making a way through the curtain.。
Actually when Jesus died in Matthew 27, 53-51, when he died on the cross, it's recorded,。
"And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice, and yielding up his spirit, and behold, the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom."。
So when Jesus died on the cross, he opened up the way for us so that we can be in God's presence.。
That we can know his presence.。
Again, we can have communion with God.。
And we can have relationship with God.。
That we can experience the love of God.。
This is incredible.。
And this would have been mind-blowing for Jewish people.。
Because they came out of the first covenant, the old covenant.。
Where they had to go through all these rituals.。
Now, because of Jesus' come, suddenly this way has been paved open to know God in a different way.。
And have a different type of access, a different type of relationship, a different type of forgiveness.。
Wow, that's amazing.。
Then he also talks about in verse 21, that Jesus is the high priest over the house of God.。
And so he's the high priest of the temple.。
And when we enter, he is there.。
We belong, we're entering the space because of the work that he has done.。
And he welcomes us.。
And we can come confidently into the presence of God.。
So, in light of all this incredible thing that the author of Hebrews has been unpacking,。
he says then in verse 22, "Let us draw near to God."。
Let us come.。
Let us come into God's presence.。
Let us worship God.。
And he's talking about the people of God.。
Now, of course, this can mean us individually, but it also means us together.。
Let us draw near to God.。
Let us come into his presence.。
Let us hear from God.。
Let us experience God.。
And then he gives three instructions.。
You see, three times he starts with "let us."。
Let us draw near to God.。
Let us hold on to our hope.。
And then let us spur one another on towards love and good deeds.。
So I'm going to pack these things.。
The first one is, "Let us draw near to God."。
Now, again, we come because we have been granted access.。
And I was thinking of like the coolest time in my life that I've gotten access to something where other people couldn't go.。
And so one of the things I came up with was when I was a resident chaplain at Baylor University, I worked with RA, so residents' assistants.。
And one of them was the president from Alpha Phi Alpha, a fraternity, and the other one was a treasurer of that fraternity.。
So it's an African-American fraternity.。
And so they invited me to their big party.。
So I didn't think much of it.。
I come to the party, and there's a line of 100 people standing outside not getting in.。
And I was able to just walk up and just step right in.。
I had access because I knew them.。
And I felt really cool for five minutes.。
But just think, like you -- we have access to God.。
You know, that is so much cooler, so much more amazing, so much more incredible than anyone else here on earth that we can have access to.。
And I think that's hard for us to fathom how special and how amazing that is, but it's incredible.。
You know, we have access to draw near.。
But what this also implies, let us draw near, is that we don't always do it.。
That there's a choice involved, whether we come into God's presence, whether we commune with God or whether we don't.。
And the author of Hebrews is saying, "Guys, we need to get together.。
You know, Jesus has given us access.。
Why would we not come into his presence as his people?。
Why would we not go?。
He has opened the way."。
Notice two ways that we enter his presence.。
One is on our own.。
You know, when we pray, we enter into his presence.。
When we read God's word, we enter into his presence.。
When we worship, we enter into his presence.。
There's also a spiritual practice called practicing the presence of God.。
What does that mean?。
That sounds pretty cool, right?。
Well, actually, it's us becoming aware of God, because God is always present.。
But it's us who are not present.。
And it's us learning to live our daily life in just dialogue, in prayer with God, as we go through the day.。
And so that's a personal thing.。
But then corporately, and this is really what the text is encouraging us, is that we come together in his presence as the people of God.。
And there's a verse in 1 Corinthians 3.16, and it says this.。
And basically, so let me read it.。
"Don't you know that you yourself are God's temple, and that God's Spirit lives among you?"。
So this is not just talking about us individually.。
So individually, yes, we have received the Holy Spirit.。
The Holy Spirit lives in us.。
But this is actually talking to a group of people.。
So the Holy Spirit is present differently when we gather together than just when we are alone.。
The Holy Spirit is present.。
He is present here right now among us.。
He lives among us, the people of God.。
And he wants to reveal himself to you.。
He wants to reveal his power.。
He wants to encourage you.。
He wants to make himself known.。
He wants to minister to you, build you up.。
It's absolutely incredible.。
And as I was thinking about this, so I have a phrase here.。
When we come to worship God together, we come expectantly because the Spirit of God lives among us.。
So when we come here every Sunday, you can come expectantly because the Holy Spirit is present differently here because we come together as the body of Christ.。
Now, what's also interesting is Jesus did not just die to forgive us our sins, but he also died to bring us into the family of God.。
So part of his purpose for us is that we gather as his family, that we gather as his church, because he wants to build us up.。
He wants to encourage us.。
And he has a mission for us as a church, but we can only fulfill that when we are together.。
So God does certain things only when we are together.。
When we meet him, when we gather together in worship, when we praise him.。
Now, when I was thinking about this, was like a lot of my significant moments in my life where God met me was when I was together worshipping with others.。
When I came to Hong Kong, I told a story another time, there was a lot of brokenness and pain and sorrow and even really I had a traumatic experience.。
So I came only functioning at 67%.。
I wasn't my full self.。
But when I came together in worship, Holy Spirit, every Sunday was doing some healing work in my heart.。
And there was tears streaming down my face, because the presence of God was doing something.。
So one time, somebody had a prophetic word for me.。
Wow, again, this was part of a healing journey.。
So when we come together, there's things that God wants to do in your life.。
He wants to bring healing, he wants to remove shame, he wants to build you up, strengthen you, encourage you through his presence.。
Earlier, I can't share the details, but somebody was just ministered in the Cantonese service just powerfully to.。
And what happened when we gathered for worship, that there was encouragement.。
And we were sitting there, Francesca was here too, weeping because of the work that the Holy Spirit was doing.。
So when we worship together, God wants to strengthen his people.。
And this is something, there is no lone ranger Christianity.。
You cannot be a Christian just on your own.。
We are meant to be together, we need to build each other up, and this is where we get into the next part.。
It talks about, "Let us hold unswervingly to the hope that we profess for he who promises is faithful."。
Now, it's hard to hold on to our hope on our own.。
But when we come together, we're encouraged, we're strengthened to hold on to Jesus who is our hope.。
So we're holding on to a person.。
We profess Jesus, and he is faithful.。
But we hear about his faithfulness when we sing, when we hear God's word preached, when we pray for each other.。
And so coming together is like you come with a tank empty, and God wants to fill your tank.。
He wants to fill you up, he wants to renew your hope, he wants to strengthen you.。
So God builds us up this way.。
But then we're also told, "Spur one another on towards love and good deeds."。
Not giving up meeting together as some are in the habit of doing, but encouraging one another,。
and all the more as you see the day approaching.。
Now it's interesting. It starts with "consider."。
So we actually need to proactively think about how we can encourage one another.。
And then the word for spurring is paroxymous.。
I didn't say that good. The Greek word.。
And it means to incite, to stir up, to provoke.。
We're meant to really stir each other up towards love and good deeds.。
And I was thinking about how that has happened in my life.。
And one of the things I thought of was that one person, one time he pointed out to me that somebody was on their own.。
That nobody was really talking to him, and I hadn't noticed.。
And so I decided to befriend him.。
So my friend was spurring me on towards love and good deeds,。
and I ended up connecting him to other people so we could find this place.。
So that's another thing God wants to do. He wants us to spur on one another towards love and good deeds.。
And he also wants us to encourage one another.。
And you notice the word "one another." So this only happens when we're together.。
This doesn't happen when we're alone.。
When we come and worship together before God, that's when this happens.。
Where we have this opportunity to do this.。
And so I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
I want to ask a question.。
Who can I encourage today or this week by my presence, my actions, and my words?。
Who can I encourage in this way?。
And I actually really want you to think about this.。
Who can you encourage? Who's God asking you to encourage?。
But as I was sharing earlier as well, that our worship, even us gathering together,。
always flows out of us beholding who Jesus is.。
Out of beholding his beauty. Out of beholding the sacrifice that he has made for us。
so that he died for us once and for all.。
And a lot of times we lose sight of that.。
And when we worship together, we refocus on that.。
We are renewed. We are strengthened.。
We receive grace, receive mercy when we come together.。
So I want to invite everyone to stand.。
And I would just love to pray over us.。
Jesus, you know every one of us here.。
You know those of us who struggle to receive your forgiveness, your grace,。
where that's just been hanging over us.。
But you have forgiven us once and for all.。
Your feelings towards us do not change.。
You love us. You have given yourself for us.。
And Holy Spirit, will you just bring this home to those of us who struggle。
to receive your forgiveness, to receive your love.。
That we can let go of these attempts to try to earn。
right standing before you through your perfection.。
That's not what you're asking for perfection.。
You're just asking that we come and say, "Jesus, I need you.。
I need your mercy. I need your grace. I need your forgiveness."。
So Holy Spirit, will you pour out your forgiveness right now。
as we come to you and say, "We need you. We need your forgiveness."。
And will you make it known that you have forgiven us once and for all.。
And will you free up your people to freely come to worship.。
To come to worship you joyfully.。
Not having this dark cloud hanging over us.。
And Lord, even as we're going to worship here in just a moment,。
will you build up your people?。
Will you strengthen your people?。
Will you encourage your people?。
Will you do something beautiful as we draw into your presence?。
As we offer ourselves to you, will you meet us?。
Will you mend the broken hearts in here?。
Will you renew hope where hope has been lost?。
So we come now and we worship you.。
And we thank you, Jesus, that you are the one who loves us。
and has forgiven us. We pray all this in your name, Jesus. Amen.。
