in its ongoing sentence.。
A time of service, love, and engagement。
that inspires and emboldens all equally。
for the conversation that lies ahead.。
A church that cares, disciples, rebuilds, renews.。
This is our city.。
This is our church.。
This is our home.。
- Good morning and welcome to the Wein-Yun Long.。
My name is Tim, I'm one of the pastors here.。
It is so good to see you.。
Today we have some exciting plans.。
Does anyone know what we're doing today?。
Barbecue, that's right.。
I'm so excited.。
I heard people are bringing British football,。
American football, and of course there'll be good food.。
But I'm not just excited because of the barbecue.。
I'm also excited because you are here.。
God's word is very clear,。
that every person who knows Jesus。
is indwelled by the Holy Spirit.。
But then there is something that happens。
when people come together as the church.。
God indwells the gathering of God's people。
in a special way.。
And so I wanna ask and invite us to prepare our hearts。
as we enter into worship here in just a moment.。
That we come expectant that the Holy Spirit wants to move,。
wants to meet us through the preaching,。
through the worship, through prayer,。
and that we come expectant and encounter him.。
But then the second thing I was thinking about。
was bringing our best in worship to him today.。
Now what does it mean to bring our best in worship?。
I think it probably means different things。
for different people.。
Perhaps the fact that you showed up is already incredible.。
Maybe you've had a difficult week and you're here,。
you know, praise God.。
So your presence is part of your worship.。
Maybe offering our best worship。
means this yielding and surrendering to God again.。
Maybe it means really thinking about what we're singing。
as we lift up our voices and praise to God.。
So I wanna invite us to bring our best right now。
to God as we're gonna worship.。
So I wanna invite you all to stand。
and I wanna pray for us.。
Heavenly Father, thank you so much。
for every single person that you have brought.。
Thank you, Holy Spirit, that you indwell your people,。
that you indwell your church, that you are here.。
Right now we wanna lift up your name.。
We want your name to be lifted high.。
We wanna praise you, we wanna glorify you.。
We wanna sing of your beauty and who you are。
and declare that.。
And so may you be pleased and honored.。
I pray this in your name, Jesus, amen.。
Let's worship.。
Amen.。
(gentle music)。
♪ Our fight is with weapons unseen ♪。
♪ Your enemies crash to their knees ♪。
♪ As we rise up in worship ♪。
♪ When trials unleash like a flood ♪。
♪ The battle belongs to our God ♪。
♪ As we cry out in worship ♪。
Let's declare it, church.。
♪ The victory is yours ♪。
♪ You're riding on the storm ♪。
♪ Your name is unfailing ♪。
♪ Though kingdoms rise and fall ♪。
♪ Your throne withstands it all ♪。
♪ Your name is unshaken ♪。
♪ To break me has failed ♪。
♪ Now nothing will silence my praise ♪。
♪ I'll cry out in worship ♪。
♪ Oh ♪。
♪ From the prison we'll shake ♪。
♪ The chain-breaking King will rise to save ♪。
♪ As we cry out in worship ♪。
♪ Oh ♪。
♪ The victory is yours ♪。
♪ You're riding on the storm ♪。
♪ Your name is unfailing ♪。
♪ Though kingdoms rise and fall ♪。
♪ Your throne withstands it all ♪。
♪ Your name is unshaken ♪。
♪ The victory, the victory is yours ♪。
♪ You're riding on the storm ♪。
♪ Your name is unfailing ♪。
♪ Though kingdoms rise and fall ♪。
♪ Your throne withstands it all ♪。
♪ Your name is unshaken ♪。
♪ Oh ♪。
♪ Unshaken, oh ♪。
♪ You roar like thunder ♪。
♪ Nothing can tame a God all-powerful ♪。
♪ All-powerful ♪。
♪ You pull down heaven ♪。
♪ With shouts of praise of God all-powerful ♪。
♪ All-powerful ♪。
♪ You roar like thunder ♪。
♪ You roar like thunder ♪。
♪ Nothing can tame a God all-powerful ♪。
♪ All-powerful ♪。
♪ You pull down heaven ♪。
♪ With shouts of praise of God all-powerful ♪。
♪ All-powerful ♪。
♪ The victory, the victory is yours ♪。
♪ You're riding on the storm ♪。
♪ Your name is unfailing ♪。
♪ Though kingdoms rise and fall ♪。
♪ Your throne withstands it all ♪。
♪ Your name is unshaken ♪。
♪ You roar like thunder ♪。
♪ Nothing can tame a God all-powerful ♪。
♪ All-powerful ♪。
- Oh, come on, church.。
♪ You pull down heaven ♪。
♪ With shouts of praise of God all-powerful ♪。
♪ All-powerful ♪。
♪ Oh ♪。
♪ Oh ♪。
♪ Jesus, the victory is yours ♪。
♪ Oh ♪。
♪ The victory is yours ♪。
♪ The victory is yours ♪。
♪ You're riding on the storm ♪。
♪ Your name is unfailing ♪。
♪ Though kingdoms rise and fall ♪。
♪ Your throne withstands it all ♪。
♪ Your name is unshaken ♪。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
- Amen, Jesus.。
(clearing throat)。
Thank you for just coming to us。
this season of Christmas.。
Your blessing, your love,。
and most importantly, your joy, Lord.。
Just thank you for bringing your joy to us.。
When you fill our everyday life with your joy,。
yeah, we just praise you.。
Let's praise some church.。
Let's sing this.。
(gentle music)。
Woo!。
Let's sing this joy.。
Celebrate church.。
(gentle music)。
Joy to the world.。
♪ Joy to the world, the Lord is come ♪。
♪ Let earth receive her King ♪。
♪ Let every heart prepare Him room ♪。
♪ Let heaven and nature sing ♪。
♪ Let heaven and nature sing ♪。
♪ We will sing joy ♪。
(gentle music)。
Joy to the world.。
♪ Joy to the world, the Savior reigns ♪。
♪ Let men their songs employ ♪。
♪ While fields and floods, rocks, hills and plains ♪。
♪ Repeat the sounding joy ♪。
♪ Repeat the sounding joy ♪。
♪ We will sing joy ♪。
♪ We will sing joy ♪。
♪ We will sing joy ♪。
♪ Joy to the world ♪。
♪ He rules, He rules the world with truth and grace ♪。
♪ And makes the nations sing ♪。
♪ And glories of His righteousness ♪。
♪ And wonders of His love ♪。
♪ And wonders of His love ♪。
Come on.。
♪ We will sing joy ♪。
♪ We will sing joy ♪。
♪ We will sing joy ♪。
♪ Joy to the world ♪。
One more time, let's sing it.。
♪ We will sing joy ♪。
♪ We will sing joy ♪。
♪ We will sing joy ♪。
♪ Joy to the world ♪。
One last time, church, come on.。
♪ We will sing joy ♪。
♪ We will sing joy ♪。
♪ We will sing joy ♪。
♪ Joy to the world ♪。
♪ Joy to the world, the Lord is come ♪。
♪ Let earth receive her King ♪。
♪ Let every heart prepare Him room ♪。
♪ And heaven and nature sing ♪。
♪ And heaven and nature sing ♪。
♪ And heaven and heaven and nature sing ♪。
Whoo!。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Thank you.。
(congregation applauding)。
Let's pray.。
Dear Jesus, we thank you that you have come.。
And I pray that this Advent season, this Christmas season,。
that you prepare a room to receive you in a new way。
and to receive you as King in our lives.。
And I also pray that this would be a season。
where you fill our hearts with joy,。
but also an anticipation that you are coming again。
and you will set things right.。
And so we eagerly await that, Lord Jesus.。
We pray, come, Lord Jesus, come.。
We pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Yeah.。
You may be seated.。
So right now, one thing that we are doing。
throughout the Advent season,。
we're going to continue with our worship。
through an Advent prayer that we'll do together.。
And so I'm excited.。
I've invited Joe and Celia and Levi,。
and we're going to do this Advent prayer together.。
So if you can put up on the screen.。
So you can see there's a part of the leader,。
which they will do as a family.。
And then there's a part of all,。
which we're all going to do together.。
We'll all say out loud.。
[Praying in Tongues]。
Testing. Okay.。
Jesus said, "I am the light of the world.。
The one who follows me will not walk in darkness,。
but have the light of life."。
We light this candle as a sign of the coming light of Christ.。
[Praying in Tongues]。
I'll lead the blind by the ways they have not known.。
A long and familiar path I will guide them.。
I will turn the darkness into light before them。
and make the rough places smooth.。
There are the things I will do.。
I will not forsake them.。
Isaiah 42, 16.。
Come.。
Until that day, let us walk in the light of the Lord.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Yeah, thank you so much for reading that.。
That was beautiful, and I love that you did it all as a family together.。
Good job, Levi.。
I also saw that joy when we were singing "Joy to the World."。
That was awesome.。
Hey, so it's so good to see everyone.。
I want to right now especially welcome those of you who are here for the very first time.。
If you don't mind just slipping up your arm, just want to say hi.。
So, yes, welcome.。
So great to have you all.。
Good to see you.。
If you would like to know more about us, you can talk to us,。
and also you can scan the QR code and let us know how we can help you.。
Right now, in just a moment, we're going to send our kids to K4C,。
but before we do that, I would love to pray for them.。
So if you see children sitting around, you can stretch out your hands.。
Let's pray for them.。
All right.。
Jesus, we thank you so much for every single child that you bring here.。
We thank you that you love them, and we ask, Lord, that today as they go to K4C,。
that they will know your love and that they will grow in the knowledge of you.。
We also pray and ask that you bless the teachers who prepared the lesson,。
that they can show who you are through what they've prepared.。
We pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
So, parents, you may bring your kids to here, 0 to 3 and 6 to 12 right here.。
If you have a child underneath of 2, you can also go in the crash room.。
The sermon is streamed there, but you do have to accompany your child.。
So, parents, you may bring the children to K4C right now.。
While they are doing that, I want to encourage you to turn to somebody you're sitting around to,。
say hello to them, introduce yourself, and then in just a little moment, I'll bring us back.。
Let's greet each other.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
All right. Time to bring it back.。
I love that everyone's talking to each other. That's always a good sign, right?。
That we're excited to see each other, excited to meet each other.。
There are several things that I want to keep you updated about.。
The first thing is today's barbecue.。
Anyone excited about today's barbecue?。
Yes, I am. I'm ready. Ready for Hong Kong-style barbecue.。
Just some information on that.。
We can go to the next slide.。
If you signed up to join us today, the bus will be leaving.。
There's Thai Fat Thai restaurant.。
If you walk down the stairs and turn to the right, it's green.。
The bus will pick us up.。
I think the bus number has changed, so they gave us a different plate number now.。
But if you can make your way there by 1 o'clock, that would be awesome.。
So make your way there by 1 o'clock so we can start boarding the bus, which will take a while.。
Also, if you have not signed up to join the barbecue, but you would like to,。
you can let us know and we'll try to help you to go.。
Now, the bus is quite full.。
We might not have a space there, but there's other ways you can travel to the barbecue site。
and also purchase the ticket to join there as well.。
You can let us know if you want to do that.。
And Dora, is Dora here?。
Right over there, yes.。
She'll be checking us in and everything, so you can look for Dora as you also go to the bus.。
All right.。
Going to the next thing.。
On Christmas, we have two Sunday services.。
We're really excited about that.。
We have our children perform, which will be awesome.。
It will be cute.。
It will be a one-hour service.。
So the first one is Cantonese service 930.。
The second one is the English service.。
It will be a great time to invite family, friends, maybe people you're already spending time on Christmas with anyhow.。
And after the Christmas service, we'll have a cookie feast.。
So that's the next thing.。
And what that is, basically we just want to extend hospitality to anyone who comes, want to celebrate, greet each other, bless each other on Christmas, on that special day, and hang out a bit with each other.。
Now, the cookie feast, this is us as a church hosting people who are joining.。
So this is not just the pastoral team hosting people.。
This is all of us hosting and welcoming people to this community.。
So that means we want to greet people, welcome them, but also if you have something you can bring, whether that is -- and it doesn't have to be home-baked cookies.。
Maybe it's something purchased.。
Maybe it's fruit.。
It doesn't have to be cookies either.。
It wouldn't hurt me to eat a little healthier.。
Something savory.。
Just something to bless people.。
Something that you enjoy that you would love to share with somebody else.。
So please sign up so we can make sure we're extending good hospitality on those days.。
So that would be awesome.。
And, yeah, the next thing is our offering.。
So this is part of our worship.。
On your seats there were envelopes, or at least close by.。
The envelopes have all information of different ways of how you can give.。
So you're welcome to take those home as well if you need that information.。
So your giving helps us to carry out this mission that we have here in Yuen Long of loving and serving people here, of caring for children, building them up in faith, growing people as a congregation.。
And so thank you so much for faithfully giving and blessing us so we can continue to do this work here.。
Once the buckets have passed around, I would love to pray for our offering, but I'll just wait until they've been passed around.。
[Music]。
All right, I'm going to pray for us.。
Let's pray.。
Jesus, we, yeah, thank you that you provide everything for us.。
Everything we have is a gift from you, and we give you praise, and we offer up our giving to you.。
And we ask that you use it for your purpose, for your kingdom's purpose, that you multiply it, and that our work here and our service in the city will bear fruit.。
We pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Hey, right now I'm excited to invite up Pastor Chapman.。
And so he's going to come up.。
He's continuing today in our sermons.。
Here's Christmas.。
A little play on words, so it's messy.。
But I would love to pray for him, pray for us.。
So let's do that.。
Jesus, thank you so much for Pastor Chapman.。
Thank you for his preparation of bringing the word that you placed on his heart for us today.。
I pray for your anointing on him as he teaches us.。
We also pray and ask that you give us hearts that are open, that are good soil so we can receive the words that you have for us.。
So we pray all this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Thank you, Pastor Tim.。
Can we put our hands together for Pastor Tim?。
So good to see you all once again.。
You know, next year, around summertime, next summer, it marks 20 years since God first called me to full-time ministry.。
In 2004, I was 16, and I just finished public exam in Hong Kong, and my youth pastor brought me and some of my friends from church to a youth summer camp.。
I was in Wukai Sha, a thousand people.。
It was really packed.。
The worship was amazing.。
I remember a little bit what the preachers was talking about, but then I remember the worship in particular.。
I still remember what songs we sing, and I remember what I saw, the pictures that I saw in worship.。
And one of those was like this.。
When I was worshiping God, I just saw this picture of Jesus walking towards me slowly.。
When he reached me, he stretched out his arms, his nail-piece arms towards me.。
The next thing I remember, I was wailing and wailing and wailing.。
It's kind of like God is filling me with his love like never before.。
I just keep wailing like there's this waterfall of God's love like crushing me.。
And then I heard this.。
This is just a voice in my head saying, "Are you willing to give me the rest of your life to follow me, to serve me?"。
All right, I need to tell you something about me first.。
So when I was born, not long after I was born, my mom found out that she had cancer.。
And it was in the hospital that she accepted Jesus.。
That's how me and my family, we started going to church.。
But when the day I turned three, she passed away.。
She went home to be with the Lord.。
And so if you ask me, ever since I was three years old, "Chapman, what would you like to do with your life?"。
I would tell you 100% I wanted to be a doctor.。
Simple.。
I want to help people.。
I want to help people to prevent like things that happened to my mom would happen to them.。
That's my dream, my aspiration, if you will.。
But somehow when I was in that young youth camp, summer camp in 2004, when I was worshipping,。
when I heard these words, "Would you follow me for the rest of your life and serve me?"。
Somehow, I know I have this dream or aspiration, but saying yes to God was like a no-brainer.。
I said yes.。
And there's this part of me inside thinking, "Yeah, I think I'm quite capable."。
You know, I was in a pretty good school in New Territories.。
I lived in Tsuen Wan when I grew up.。
I was in a better class in school, so I'm quite capable.。
If God wants to call someone, yeah, of course it would be me.。
Little did I know that my life was going to turn upside down.。
When I got into university, I was this Christian young man on fire for God,。
so I would go to the Christian fellowship, I'd go to campus crusades, whatever the meetings are,。
prayer meetings, I went to all the Christian events and meetings that I could ever heard of.。
So people, when they see me on the outside, I'm this very spiritual, very on fire young man for Jesus,。
but they don't know what's going on inside of me.。
Actually, I was struggling with my studies.。
So after one or two semesters in university, I started not being able to meet deadlines of my assignments,。
and I failed one or two classes, and I became so ashamed of myself.。
I thought I should be living the perfect Christian life, like every single area of my life should be perfect.。
I should be the one telling people, you know what, God called me to be a pastor one day,。
so now I am leading a perfect life. Come on, let's see.。
I thought that would be the way, but it was the total opposite, and I was so ashamed of myself.。
So I started to distance myself from my friends.。
I didn't want them to see what's going on with me. I don't want to face them.。
And I started to skip classes.。
I remember there was one day I had this particular class.。
We have certain level, a standard of attendance.。
If I skip another class, I would just fail the entire course one more time.。
So that day I had an 8.30 a.m. class.。
When I woke up and looked at the clock, it was 9.09 a.m.。
Well, luckily I stayed in dorm, like it's a 10-minute run, not walk, 10-minute run, so I rushed to the classroom.。
I was like jogging or running, and I'm like, "Ah, ah, ah, finally reached the door."。
It's very simple. All I have to do is open the door, grab a seat.。
Nobody's going to see me. Just pay attention, and then that's it.。
But when I was standing at the door, this huge fear just started to overwhelm me.。
I started to have these mental rehearsals of people, how they're going to look at me,。
my classmates, what they're going to say about me, and I was just frozen at the door.。
But then I remember I'm a Christian. I can pray to God about these kind of things.。
So I gathered my courage to pray. I said, "God, please help me. I don't know what to do right now.。
I should go in, but I don't want to go in. I don't know what to do."。
And I prayed, and after one minute, no, I'm still very afraid I have to pray again.。
So I prayed for two minutes. I prayed for three minutes, four minutes, and five minutes。
until eventually I gathered all my strength and courage.。
I turned back. I went back to my dorm, and I slept.。
I slept for two weeks. I didn't see people. I didn't get out of my room.。
I didn't take a shower. I don't know you've been there, that you slept so much。
until your head hurts, you must get up, because if you keep lying down here,。
your head is hurting. That's what happened to me.。
When I woke up, I would just go and take a cup noodle, eat it, and then I continued to lie down.。
Later on, I figured out, or someone told me, that's called depression.。
At the end of that semester, I dropped out of school, and I told myself,。
God called me to be a pastor, not doing some other whatever that is.。
So maybe if I go to a seminary, things will be different.。
So I got the guts to sign up, apply for a seminary, and that seminary accepted me.。
And so I started, I thought, okay, now I'm living out my calling, but guess what?。
The whole thing, the whole cycle repeated itself.。
I failed to meet deadlines again, I skipped classes again, I dropped out once again.。
At the age of 23, I dropped out of school twice, I was sitting on the bus,。
the upper deck of the bus, because I was so ashamed of myself, even if I take a bus,。
I would stay at the back of the upper deck.。
And I look out the window, and these words came out of my mouth.。
I asked God, God, have I heard you, like, wrongly? Did I hear you wrongly?。
Did I make a mistake, or have you made a mistake?。
Because I could never be the one that you called.。
You see, second guessing, or doubts, questioning ourselves, questioning even God,。
this is just almost like a reflex when we hit a brick wall or face immense challenge or failures in life.。
Doubt is something that almost every single person experience at a certain point in their life.。
If we look at the dictionary definition of the word doubt, it says this,。
doubt is the feeling of uncertainty or lack of conviction.。
When I was 16, I was pretty convinced that God has called me into ministry to be a pastor.。
But as I hit one wall after another, as I failed one time after another,。
my level of conviction just started to go downhill until by the time I was 23,。
if there is a tank that contains my faith, I would say that tank was completely empty.。
I lack conviction.。
I was uncertain if God has said those very words to me in the first place in that summer camp.。
Perhaps you've been faithful at your job, you worked really hard,。
but you didn't get the promotion you expected or you deserved.。
Or maybe you've been praying for healing or for the well-being of someone you really love.。
You've been praying day and night for that, yet, or maybe it's a family member,。
yet you're there at the hospital watching them suffer.。
Or you may even be following God faithfully and in your everyday life and serving faithfully at church,。
diligently pour out your time, your resources, your energy, your love, but in the end, you're hurt.。
You thought, "Nobody really understands me. People hurt me."。
And you're so discouraged by people at church or even maybe you're so discouraged by God himself。
that you were wondering if you should just walk away.。
Modern psychologists, they view doubt as a natural part of human experience.。
It arises within us because we have this ability to think critically and question our surroundings.。
So no wonder in our lives when doubt presents itself, it's always in the form of a question.。
You see, in Christmas or this Christmas narrative, the author of the Bible did not shy away from any stories of doubt。
or try to present to us a perfect humanity.。
Luke actually opened his Jesus story with a story of doubt.。
But at the same time, I believe if we spend some time together to dive into it today,。
we would find the same encouragement that people found in this story.。
Shall we pray?。
Father, we are here to open your Word today because we know there is power in your Word.。
We just simply pray that God, we're here, we open our ears.。
Please speak to us, Lord.。
In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.。
We're going to look at Luke chapter 1. I'm starting with verse 5.。
"In the time of Herod king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah, who belonged to the priestly division of Abijah.。
His wife Elizabeth was also a descendant of Aaron.。
Both of them were righteous in the sight of God, observing all the Lord's commands and decrees blamelessly.。
But they were childless because Elizabeth was not able to conceive, and they were both very old."。
At the beginning of the Gospel of Luke, we were introduced to this priest whose name is Zechariah.。
It's not only that he is a priest, his wife is also a daughter of a priest.。
The priesthood of Israel, it was established back in the days during the Exodus。
when Moses, you know, were establishing the tabernacle, which later became the temple.。
Moses also appointed the priesthood.。
The first high priest was Moses' brother, Aaron.。
So you see, like, Elizabeth, she's a descendant of Aaron, the high priest.。
And so temple and priesthood, this is a system of worship for the Israelites.。
This is how they worship God, worship Yahweh.。
And priests are the ones who exclusively work inside a temple.。
You gotta know this, you cannot apply to be a priest.。
You cannot say, "I want to be a priest, let me write an email, send in my CV.。
Hey, I want to be a priest." It doesn't work like that.。
You are either born to be a priest, or you are not.。
Out of the 12 tribes of Israel, only the Levites, they were chosen to be priests.。
They were born into it.。
So here we see that Zechariah and Elizabeth, they were born in a very noble and prestige background.。
Being a priest in Israel means you are part of this leadership together with the king and the prophets.。
They're born to be in the leadership class of Israel.。
And not only that, the Bible also said they're not just noble or honorable in their social status,。
they had amazing character as well.。
Luke said they are blameless.。
So if you were a first century reader of the Bible, you would understand this.。
You would understand this perfect couple to be super respected, highly respected in the Jewish society.。
But, there's always a but to the story, right?。
But, they were childless, and they were very old.。
In the Jewish context, childbearing, it's always regarded as a blessing from God.。
Not only that, when a couple was not able to conceive, not able to have children,。
it could lead to social scrutiny, whispers, and even shame.。
Childlessness was sometimes viewed as a sign of God's disfavor or punishment.。
Could you imagine the emotional pain and social challenges that this couple would have faced throughout their entire life?。
They did their best to follow God, do everything God has asked,。
yet they were caught in a situation that suggested God's favor was not on them.。
Or even worse, that they were punished by God.。
For sure, they would have been praying for a child or for a son for many, many years,。
but that prayer was never answered.。
Now, Zechariah's life, in his life, he has only one job.。
As a priest, he's there to pray on behalf of the Israelites.。
Yet, he has been living all these years with the biggest unanswered prayer in his life.。
Could you imagine with me for a moment, if you were a fellow Jew,。
would you want this guy to pray on your behalf that his own prayer wasn't even answered?。
Or, on the flip side, if you were Zechariah, would you still think you're qualified for your job?。
Let's continue to read from verse 8.。
Once when Zechariah's division was on duty and he was serving as a priest before God,。
he was chosen by Lot according to the custom of the priesthood,。
to go into the temple of the Lord and burn incense.。
And when the time of the burning of incense came, all the assembled worshippers were praying outside.。
Here, Luke suddenly brought us to a time where Zechariah was at work.。
Give us a glimpse of his work.。
You need to know that in the Jewish priesthood, there were 24 divisions in total.。
And besides major festivals where they're all needed because we need all hands on deck during the major festivals,。
but during other time of the year, they only have to serve two times.。
Each time is just a week.。
That's the best news for pastors, right?。
If you get a whole year of salary, but you only have to work two times a year, two weeks a year,。
or maybe Easter and Christmas.。
Hallelujah, right?。
No, we don't think like that.。
We're very diligent, right, Tim?。
We're very diligent.。
So, they only have to work two times a year.。
And because there were so many priests in the entire Israel, it's the entire tribe of the nation,。
that's why every single priest, they only get to go into the temple to burn incense once in their entire lifetime.。
They only get one chance.。
And Luke was telling us, this is Zechariah's moment.。
This is at the peak of his career.。
This is the moment where he's going to do what he was chosen to do in the first place.。
This is as close to Yahweh, the God of Israel, or the creator of universe, as close as he could be.。
I was born for this moment.。
So, old Zechariah went into the holy place of the temple.。
And it says there, verse 11,。
"Then an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing at the right side of the altar of incense.。
When Zechariah saw him, he was startled and was gripped by fear.。
But the angel said to him, 'Do not be afraid, Zechariah. Your prayer has been heard.。
Your wife, Elizabeth, will bear you a son, and you are to call him John.。
He will be a joy and delight to you, and many will rejoice because of his birth.。
For he will be great in the sight of the Lord.。
He is never to take wine or other fermented drink,。
and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even before he is born."。
Wow.。
"He will bring back many of the people of Israel to the Lord their God.。
And he will go on before the Lord in the spirit and power of Elijah。
to turn the hearts of the parents to their children。
and the disobedient to the wisdom of the righteous,。
to make ready a people prepared for the Lord."。
Wow.。
Could there be an even more perfect ending to this?。
Like, your prayer has been heard.。
If having a son or a child was something Zechariah and Elizabeth。
has been praying every day for their entire life,。
they could probably have been praying for that for about like 30, 40, 50 years.。
Let's just say it's 40, right?。
If they pray every day, 365 times a year,。
and they've been praying that for 40 years,。
that would roughly equal to about 15,000 times.。
I wonder if anyone here who has prayed one prayer for 15,000 times in your life?。
Right? Oh, okay.。
So that's a lot, right?。
And I wonder, you know, how their prayer life would look like.。
This is how I imagine.。
Maybe when they were first married, they would say things like this,。
"Dear God, thank you for giving us each other.。
Now we're happily married.。
We're ready to start a family.。
We pray that you will give us a beautiful gift of a child.。
Amen."。
Nothing happened.。
All right. You know, sometimes God has his own timetable, his own timeline.。
Then it became, "Dear God, we respect your timetable.。
We trust in you.。
We pray that you will give us a child when you see fit.。
Amen."。
Still nothing after years.。
Maybe after a while it will become like this.。
"God, I'm not sure if you've heard our prayers.。
I didn't know if you get the message previously.。
You know, if there's something you're not happy with us, you can tell us.。
Like if there's something, if in my job as a priest I made any mistakes,。
please review to me so I can do a better job, I can be a better man.。
Or if there's anything we as a couple, we sinned against you,。
please review to us so that we can set a record straight。
so that we could finally have the blessing in our life.。
Because everyone is telling us if we don't have a child, it must be our sin.。
It must be our own mistakes.。
So God, please review to us what have we done wrong.。
Amen."。
Perhaps after years, after years, years,。
finally one day they pray this.。
"It's okay God, it doesn't matter anymore.。
I cannot bear that pain.。
I cannot bear looking at that empty room in my house。
that I've prepared for a baby anymore.。
I can't do it, I can't take it.。
God, why don't, yeah,。
why don't we just pretend we never had this conversation before.。
I'm ready to let go, I'm ready to move on.。
I'm so old, my wife is so old, there's no more chance for us.。
Let's just forget it about God.。
Forget it God.。
I'll still worship you, I'll still work for you, I'll still do what you ask.。
But just let's forget about this."。
I don't know how long it has been.。
I don't know how many times they have prayed this prayer.。
Probably he don't remember praying this or how he felt when he prayed that anymore.。
But at the climax of his career,。
Zechariah was met by a heavenly being showing up and saying these words,。
"Your prayer has been heard."。
My prayer has been heard?。
You know, I've been praying this prayer for no less than 15,000 times for years.。
My fellow priests, my community, my neighbors, my relatives,。
they all told me that God must have already heard my prayer.。
He's merciful, he's faithful, he would do something.。
And look what I've got here right now.。
Nothing.。
Nothing.。
What do you expect from me?。
Now you're telling me that's going to be a child?。
You know, when I was young, I was so certain.。
I was so convinced that God has heard my prayer and would answer it.。
Now, I'm not sure anymore.。
I'm not certain anymore.。
I'm not expecting anything else from God anymore.。
And you're telling me that there's a chance that God has listened to my prayer。
and he's answering me right now?。
How can I be sure of this?。
How would I know?。
How can I be certain?。
No doubt.。
This is a story of doubt.。
Here we have old Zechariah.。
He's an old priest, a lifetime servant of God,。
who for years walked a righteous and blameless life,。
yet he still struggled with doubt like you and me and anybody else.。
So today, if you have any doubt about God, you're not alone in this room.。
And you have to see that the story of Gabriel's visit to Zechariah。
was immediately followed by his visit to Mary.。
So let me paraphrase the story.。
Unlike Zechariah and Elizabeth, who were very old,。
Mary was just engaged and not married yet.。
In other words, she's very likely to be just a teenager.。
And Gabriel appeared in very similar ways,。
said something very similar that he told Mary how she would bear a child,。
but this child will be the son of the Most High.。
He will be the savior of the world, and his kingdom will never end.。
If you're married, like, "Son, I'm not even married yet."。
That's what she said.。
"But I've not been married yet. How could this happen?。
How will this be?"。
You know, Luke put these two stories side by side,。
and he showed us two people,。
one old priest Zechariah and a young virgin Mary, a teenager,。
who both have their reasonable doubts about what God has just told them,。
but Luke recorded their two responses in form of two questions.。
Zechariah, in his doubt, he asked, "How can I be sure of this?。
How can I be certain?"。
In other words, he was looking for certainty.。
Gabriel responded by pointing out that, "You did not believe my words,"。
which were indeed the very word of God.。
So Gabriel was saying that, you know, he pointed out Zechariah's unbelief.。
So this morning, we're juggling a few different concepts here。
and allow me to explain how they're all connected to each other.。
First, we talk about the idea of doubt,。
which I mentioned doubt is the feeling within us。
when we're uncertain about something or when we lack conviction.。
It's not uncommon when doubt arises within the context of faith, right?。
Sometimes we wonder if God really loves us,。
if he listens to us, listens to our prayers,。
or simply wonder if God is even real.。
Are we delusional to believe that there is a being called God in this world?。
As Christians or as human beings,。
we will experience doubt throughout our lifespan,。
not just in faith, but in many areas of our life,。
like self-doubt I just mentioned earlier.。
That's about doubt.。
Then we have this idea, this concept called unbelief.。
What is it?。
Unbelief is the decision to live your life as if there is no God.。
And it is totally possible, let me say this,。
it's totally possible for us to be Christian。
and to be unbelieving at the same time.。
Seriously? How?。
We can come to church gatherings every week。
and sing songs and pray to God,。
yet we don't believe he has ultimate authority。
and he works in each and every area in our lives.。
Yes, I believe in God, but I have my own plans for my career.。
I pray to God for my problems many times.。
It just doesn't go away.。
I don't know why I'm speaking in Singaporean accent,。
but it just doesn't go away.。
I guess God, you know, he's not interested or he's too busy.。
I'll just have to handle this myself.。
Sorry for the accent, I don't know where it comes from.。
Whenever, you see, whenever there's an area in your life,。
we decided to ask God to stay out of it and say,。
you know, God, I'll handle it myself.。
That's the exact area where we harbor unbelief in our lives.。
And now it's important to know this.。
Doubt is not unbelief, but it can become unbelief.。
Let me say this again.。
Doubt is not unbelief, but doubt can become unbelief.。
I'm going to read from a professor of theology in the UK.。
His name is Alistair McGrath.。
He wrote this.。
When does doubt become unbelief?。
Answer, when you let it.。
When you cling to unrealistic ideas about faith,。
when you, if you believe that you can or need to know everything。
with absolute certainty, your faith will be in difficulties very soon.。
But faith isn't like that.。
Faith is about being willing to live, trusting in the existence。
and promises of God, knowing that one day that existence。
and those promises will be totally vindicated.。
But for the moment, we walk by faith and not by sight.。
In other words, when Zechariah was in his doubt,。
whether God really had heard my prayer,。
whether God would really give me a son,。
when he let that doubt pushes him to demand for certainty,。
to say, how can I be sure of this?。
How would I be certain of this?。
When he demanded certainty from God, that's the moment。
that unbelief start to grow in his heart.。
It's common as humans.。
You want to ask God for signs.。
God, please give me a sign if you want me to do this or that.。
But the moment we see the sign,。
it's the moment it no longer requires faith inside of us.。
You see, we run alpha here.。
We just finished one, and I love running alphas.。
And one of my favorite session is actually the session。
that talks about prayer.。
We'll tell people, what is prayer?。
Why do we pray?。
How do we pray?。
And then towards the end, we have small group discussion,。
and then towards the very, very end,。
we're supposed to introduce prayer to the entire group。
for the very first time.。
And for some people, some of our guests。
who are not Christians yet,。
that could be the very first time in their life to pray.。
You see, being a pastor for so many years,。
I'm an expert--okay, there's a confraction.。
I'm an expert to pray prayers that don't require faith.。
I'm very--it's my expertise to pray prayers。
that just in my very words, I'm already comforting that person.。
"Oh, yeah, God, you know, Tim is not feeling well this week.。
But yeah, God, I know, you know, if we take enough rest,。
if we give ourselves time to heal,。
and we will eventually be better.。
So, God, I just pray that you give the time and space。
for Tim to heal in Jesus' name, amen."。
It's a prayer that is very pastoral.。
It's very comforting.。
But honestly, I'm very honest, sometimes if I don't have faith,。
I pray that kind of prayer, it will not fail.。
I'm just praying God give him space and time to heal,。
not even asking God to heal him.。
But in Alpha, in the first session,。
when I talk about prayer, this is my personal challenge.。
When the first time I ran, I led a small group,。
it came to that moment, somebody said,。
"I just recently lost my job. Can you pray for me?"。
I said, "Sure, let's just pray that God will give you a job."。
(gasps) I don't know if God would do that.。
I don't know, I can't promise, I can't guarantee that.。
But that's the moment when I prayed that prayer,。
"God, please give him a job in Jesus' name, amen."。
That's a kind of prayer that requires faith.。
In my uncertainty of whether God will act or not upon my prayer,。
that's where faith is activated.。
That's why another Christian author, Philip Yancey,。
he puts it this way.。
He said, "The opposite of faith is not doubt, but certainty."。
Let me say that again.。
The opposite of faith is certainty.。
Where there is certainty, there is no room for faith.。
And here Luke showed us there is another way to respond in doubt.。
When young Mary received a bizarre word from the angel,。
she also had her doubts, but she didn't reject God's word。
in her inability to understand,。
nor did she demand certainty in her confusion.。
She asked, "How will this be?。
How are you going to do this, God?"。
It was a question to explore the will of God in her life.。
And as she began to understand a little bit more what God wants to do,。
and maybe perhaps how God would even do it in her life,。
there is faith arising in her heart, and she said this,。
"I am the Lord's servant. May your word to me be fulfilled."。
Luke is showing us there is another way out to doubt.。
There's another way out called faith.。
Faith is not found where certainty could be found.。
It's a risk.。
But then Luke also told us a very good news to all us doubters in this world.。
If we don't have that kind of faith, if we're still doubting,。
this is a very comforting moment.。
You see, God does not reject doubters.。
Instead, He draws near to them.。
People, if you look at the Bible, people like Abraham, Moses, Peter, Job,。
they all have their doubts about God or His word.。
If you read the psalm, you will see it is filled with prayers of doubt.。
But God does not push doubters away.。
He allows us to bring those questions to Him,。
and He doesn't want us simply to draw our own conclusion based on our experience。
and say, you know, God is not going to help me, He's not going to do anything.。
He doesn't want us to draw that conclusion ourselves.。
He doesn't want our hearts.。
He doesn't want us to let unbelief to grow inside of our hearts.。
But you need to see this even when there was a moment of doubt in Zechariah's life,。
his doubt didn't and never disqualified him from the blessing of God.。
Even later, God gave him a sign to silence him, that he couldn't talk.。
It was a sign for him to remember.。
You know, when he finally sees his wife being pregnant,。
and he wanted to say something, he couldn't say it.。
There he is reminded, no word from God's mouth will ever fail.。
[Gasps]。
No words from God's mouth will ever fail.。
That's the exact same words the angel Gabriel told Mary,。
but Zechariah got to experience it for himself.。
And many years later, his son, John the Baptist,。
you know, he's the greatest Old Testament prophet.。
He even saw Jesus prepare the way for Jesus' letter, spiritual revival in Israel.。
He baptized Jesus, but later when he was caught and put into prison,。
he also had a moment of doubt, the greatest prophet ever.。
In the Old Testament, he has this moment of doubt.。
So he sent his disciples to Jesus to ask this.。
He said, "Are you the one who is to come, or should we expect someone else?"。
Jesus didn't give John a definitive answer.。
He didn't offer certainty.。
Instead, Jesus invites John to see what he has done.。
So Jesus replied to the messengers and said,。
"Go back and report to John what you have seen and heard.。
The blind receive sight, the lame walk, those who have leprosy are cleansed,。
the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the good news is proclaimed to the poor."。
So Jesus is inviting John to see what he has done and said,。
"You know what? If you put your eyes on what I've been doing in this world,。
if you put your eyes on me and not just on the things you're worried about,。
that you doubt with, that you will have faith arise inside of your soul one more time."。
And today God also invites us to put our trust in him by opening our eyes and ears。
to see, to hear what he has done for us on the cross。
and also what he has been doing around us in our world。
so that faith could once again arise in us when we're struggling with doubt.。
When I was 23, I was close to giving up.。
I was this close to choose unbelief, to write off the idea that God has a calling in my life.。
But I remember the Jesus who showed me his nail-piece hands.。
I remember how his love was flowing through my very veins in my body.。
And out of nowhere, that courage or whatever it is,。
I was just telling myself, "Maybe, or maybe this voice is telling me,。
maybe I can give God one more chance."。
Or, "I can ask God to give me one more chance. I don't exactly know how it works.。
I only know that I'm so broken. I'm done. I'm undone. There's nothing left in me.。
I couldn't be the one God has chosen. I'm a very broken individual here.。
But if God can still do something with my life, here I am, God.。
My life is in your hands."。
And so many years later, here standing in front of you all,。
it's a guy dropped out of school two times,。
got no certificate, no degree, no qualification whatsoever.。
But God so graciously, he brought me through a journey where now,。
after almost 20 years, I'm standing here doing the exact same thing。
that when I was 16, God has called me to do.。
I get to join a ministry called Alpha, and we film some cool videos。
to tell people about Jesus and about what he has done for us.。
I get to join a beautiful community called The Vine,。
where the senior pastor told me, "Chapman, I see that you have struggled with God.。
I see that you've wrestled with Him. You're walking like this right now,。
and we want people like you in The Vine.。
We want you to join a community to walk alongside us,。
and even come and work here.。
Today, if you find yourself in a position struggling with doubt,。
I want to tell you that you have a place in this community.。
I found my place years ago when I was just a kid, dropped out from school.。
I don't know what to do with my life, but I got accepted in a community like this.。
I got to meet the grace and the love of God once again,。
and he picked me up here.。
And I believe he's going to do this.。
I believe with all my heart he's going to do this for every single one of us。
who need him to do that again.。
And I just remember that, you know, if we're struggling with doubts about God in our life,。
he's not angry with us. He's not rejecting us.。
In fact, he is calling us once again onto a journey of faith.。
He accepts all the complaints, all the questions that we're throwing at him,。
but he said, "I'm going to show you what I'm doing in your life,。
or maybe in someone else's life around you,。
and I want to invite you once again to put your trust in me.。
I want to invite you onto a journey of faith where you have to walk by faith and not by sight."。
And so I'm wondering if anybody here, right now the Holy Spirit is whispering into your ears.。
Perhaps there were moments in your life you decided, "Okay, God, I'm done.。
I've prayed enough times. I'm not going to talk to you about this anymore."。
There is an area of unbelief in your life, or maybe right here, right now,。
where you are, you're struggling with this doubt.。
You're asking, "God, I'm not sure if you've heard my prayer.。
God, I'm not sure if you still love me. God, I'm not sure if I'm still worthy."。
I believe this is the moment God wants to speak to us today.。
That's why we're going to enter into a moment of prayer,。
and I'm going to invite the worship team back,。
and we're just going to spend some time in the presence of the Holy Spirit today,。
and we're just going to ask Him to come.。
Can I invite everyone to stand where you are?。
As we worship, as we pray, I want to invite you back to that moment,。
or back to that place where unbelief is harboring in your life right now,。
where perhaps years ago, weeks ago, days ago, you told God,。
"Okay, God, we'll never talk about this again.。
You don't have to be in this area of my life."。
In the very gentle invitation that the Holy Spirit is extending right now,。
I invite each and every one of us to go back to that place,。
and open up that area to God once again.。
God is not going to offer you certainty,。
but He's going to invite you into a journey of faith, if you will.。
Come, Holy Spirit.。
Bring that to Him.。
Maybe you're reminded of all the shame,。
maybe you're reminded of all the suffering, all the pain,。
but God wants to be with you today.。
He's not rejecting you.。
He's not rejecting you when you doubt,。
when you have an area of unbelief in your life.。
Indeed, that's why we have Christmas.。
He came for us.。
He came for us doubters,。
and He is here with us right here, right now.。
So this is a moment between ourselves and God.。
If the Holy Spirit is gently talking to you, speaking to you,。
about that event, that area, that thing in your life。
that you already put in a box, shelve it,。
never talk about it, never think about it again,。
if the Holy Spirit is gently telling you,。
"Hey, what about that?。
"Would you let me into that space in your life once again?。
"Would you allow me to speak faith into you today once again?"。
If that's you, I invite you.。
Let's just pray and worship God and say,。
"God, I built my life upon you.。
"There's nothing in my life that I would not open up to you.。
"Come, Holy Spirit, restore me.。
"Give me faith once again.。
"I believe.。
"Help my unbelief, God."。
(soft piano music)。
(soft piano music)。
Let's sing this, Church.。
(soft piano music)。
♪ Worthy of every song we could ever sing ♪。
♪ Worthy of all the praise we could ever bring ♪。
♪ Worthy of every breath we could ever breathe ♪。
♪ We live for you ♪。
♪ Jesus, the name above every other name ♪。
♪ Jesus, the only one we could ever sing ♪。
♪ Worthy of every breath we could ever breathe ♪。
♪ We live for you ♪。
♪ Oh, we live for you ♪。
♪ We sing holy ♪。
♪ There is no one like you ♪。
♪ There is none beside you ♪。
♪ Open up my eyes in wonder ♪。
♪ Show me who you are and fill me in your heart ♪。
♪ And lead me in your love to those around me ♪。
♪ Worthy of every song we could ever sing ♪。
♪ Worthy of all the praise we could ever bring ♪。
♪ Yes, Jesus ♪。
♪ Worthy of every breath we could ever breathe ♪。
♪ We live for you ♪。
Thank you, Jesus.。
♪ Jesus, the name above every other name ♪。
♪ Jesus, the only one we could ever sing ♪。
♪ Worthy of every breath we could ever breathe ♪。
♪ We live for you ♪。
♪ Oh, we live for you ♪。
Let's sing this, church.。
♪ We sing holy ♪。
♪ There is no one like you ♪。
♪ There is none beside you ♪。
♪ Open up my eyes in wonder ♪。
♪ Show me who you are and fill me in your heart ♪。
♪ And lead me in your love to those around me ♪。
♪ Holy, holy ♪。
♪ There is no one like you ♪。
♪ There is none beside you ♪。
♪ Open up my eyes in wonder ♪。
♪ Show me who you are and fill me in your heart ♪。
♪ And lead me in your love to those around me ♪。
Jesus.。
You are the foundation, Jesus.。
You are our foundation.。
Give us faith.。
Faith, Jesus.。
We can't see it, but we believe in it.。
It's you, Jesus.。
We believe in you.。
We build our life in you, Jesus.。
Let's declare this, church.。
♪ I will build my life upon your love ♪。
♪ It is a firm foundation ♪。
♪ I will put my trust in you alone ♪。
♪ And I will not be shaken ♪。
♪ I will build my life upon your love ♪。
♪ It is a firm foundation ♪。
♪ I will put my trust in you alone ♪。
♪ And I will not be shaken ♪。
♪ Holy, there is no one like you ♪。
♪ There is none beside you ♪。
♪ Open up my eyes in wonder ♪。
♪ Show me who you are and fill me with your heart ♪。
♪ And lead me in your love to those around me ♪。
♪ I will build my life upon your love ♪。
Let's declare this.。
♪ It is a firm foundation ♪。
Yes, you are.。
♪ I will put my trust in you alone ♪。
♪ And I will not be shaken ♪。
♪ I will build my life upon your love ♪。
♪ It is a firm foundation ♪。
♪ I will put my trust in you alone ♪。
♪ And I will not be shaken ♪。
♪ I will build my life upon your love ♪。
♪ It is a firm foundation ♪。
♪ I will put my trust in you alone ♪。
♪ And I will not be shaken ♪。
Jesus, we thank you that when we place our trust in you,。
you are faithful.。
You are faithful to your people.。
And you come through, you never fail us.。
Lord, I thank you that we can bring our doubts,。
our struggles, where we do wonder,。
you know, what is going on?。
What are you doing?。
That we can bring them to you.。
Lord, you know, every single person here,。
you know the doubts, the struggles,。
the pain that they're carrying.。
Maybe the things that came up as Chapman was preaching.。
And Lord, we hand them to you.。
We pray that you will release faith, trust,。
hope on your people right now.。
Holy Spirit, we pray for this work.。
We pray that you pour that right now on over your people.。
Lord, I also pray for us that we are a community。
that walks with each other,。
that cares for each other,。
that carries each other's burdens.。
That we're not alone in these challenges that we're facing,。
but that you place people on our sides.。
And so we give you all the glory.。
We say thank you that when we place our faith in you,。
we are never put to shame.。
We are never put to shame when we trust in you, Lord.。
And we lift all these things up to you。
and pray this in your wonderful name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
[applause]。
Thank you, Chapman, for sharing so vulnerable,。
you know, your story with us.。
This is part of who we are as a community.。
Thank you, all worship team and everyone serving every Sunday。
for blessing us with that.。
Right now we do have a prayer team that's standing here。
on your right-hand side with the orange tags.。
If you would love somebody to pray with you,。
you know, for whatever is going on,。
something to rejoice over,。
something where you need God to act,。
they would love to pray with you.。
So please do take advantage of that.。
Also, just a reminder for those joining the barbecue,。
and if you signed up, do make your way to the bus。
by Thai Fat Thai restaurant, the green restaurant.。
You walk out, you turn to the right.。
It's about 50 meters there.。
And then parents, yeah, do -- right now is also time。
to pick up your children.。
Thank you so much for coming.。
We love you.。
Have a wonderful week, and we see you next week.。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
♪ We'll last forever if you believe in ♪。
