Good morning.。
Hey, we're growing, eh?。
I love it.。
It's wonderful to be back with our family at Vine。
year long.。
This is always one of my favorite places,。
quite possibly my number one favorite place.。
Please don't tell everybody in Wanchai.。
Sandra and I love you guys and rejoice what God is doing here.。
We regard you as close personal friends.。
But-- but what I'm going to say today actually pains me.。
Deeply.。
I've been involved in church leadership for over 40 years.。
And the biggest conflicts that I've。
witnessed in churches across the world,。
the one thing that has caused more arguments。
and done more collateral damage is worship in church.。
Yeah, that's right.。
Worship in church.。
Ironically, the very thing that should be uniting us。
has often turned into what I call worship wars.。
Did you ever hear the story about the pastor。
who wanted to move the piano from one side of the church。
to the other?。
He knew he couldn't move it just in one Sunday.。
It wasn't a question of physical capability,。
but he knew it wouldn't go over well.。
Everyone was used to the piano being。
on this side of the stage.。
So instead of a shock and awe approach,。
the pastor decided to be patient.。
Every Sunday, he moved the piano just one inch。
until eventually it was on the other side.。
When he finished, no one even noticed the change.。
Now for me, growing up in, shall I say,。
more traditional churches, all my life。
I've heard this issue brought up more times than I count.。
I was told that rhythmic music, the pattern of sound, silence,。
and emphasis in a song was wrong if it was in a minor key,。
if it was syncopated, or had a set of drums,。
or any percussion instrument for that matter.。
And of course, guitars, especially electric guitars,。
were bad.。
It seemed that every person told me。
something different about where I should stand with music。
and why it was all potentially evil.。
I think it's time to hit scripture, don't you?。
Look at these verses.。
This is Jesus and the Samaritan woman at the well.。
You know it well.。
Jesus is describing true worship.。
But the hour is coming and is now here。
when true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit。
and in truth.。
For the Father is seeking such people to worship him.。
God is spirit, and those who worship him。
must worship in spirit and in truth.。
But what is in spirit and truth?。
Is it a certain style of music, dress, and/or liturgy?。
Is it a proper religious heritage。
or denominational affiliation?。
Is it a required volume of biblical knowledge?。
We just sang "The Heart of Worship" by Matt Redman.。
And I want to tell you the story behind this song.。
Soul Survivor Church in the UK began its ministry in 1993,。
just outside of London in a place called Walthamstow.。
In a place called Watford.。
And was at the forefront of modern worship,。
what we call modern worship.。
They had innovative weekend services.。
They had worship arts production and active use of multimedia.。
And they were all incorporated to make the church relevant。
to people's lives.。
But even with all of this, somehow, over time,。
congregation members turned from active worship participants。
to silent connoisseurs.。
Something amidst the music and the further was missing.。
The lines got blurred.。
And the heart of worship and praise was missing.。
It was at this moment that Soul Survivor Church。
took drastic action.。
They removed everything from the worship services.。
No microphones, no drums, no guitars, no sound systems。
were left.。
Sundays had no worship leader, instruments, or amplified。
sound.。
Can you imagine that?。
Could you imagine if you came today?。
There was none of that.。
The attendees of this UK church couldn't at first.。
But this is the point.。
They had much more than powerful sound systems。
and eye-catching multimedia.。
And as soon as their voices were lifted together to God,。
as soon as their hearts were united in prayer,。
the silence disappeared.。
And the period of apathy was demolished.。
Now, step by step, the equipment was returned.。
But since then, it has never played a more important role。
than people's voices.。
The worship pastor at that time, Matt Redman,。
wrote the song "The Heart of Worship"。
during these unusual worship sessions.。
It was just his personal reflection。
of what was happening around him.。
All of the stuff that was forming。
the story behind the song and the result。
is the song we just sang.。
When the music fades, all is stripped away.。
I simply come longing just to bring。
something that's of worth that will bless your heart.。
I'm coming back to the heart of worship.。
And it's all about you, Jesus.。
It's all about you.。
The heart of worship is about self-examination,。
not only in matters of worship, but in our lives.。
I need to tell you this.。
Jesus came into the world to build a people who。
would be true worshipers.。
Let me say it again.。
Jesus came into the world to build a people who。
would be true worshipers.。
In the verses before our passage I'm。
going to cover this morning, we see the Pharisees--。
I love the Pharisees, don't you?。
The religious people rejecting the one who called out to them.。
They were the religious people of the time.。
Jesus said to them, these people honor me with their lips,。
but their heart is far from me.。
My goodness.。
We wouldn't want him saying that about the Vineyard。
along this morning, right?。
Honor me with their lips, but their heart is--。
in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines。
the commandments of men.。
Even Simon Peter failed to grasp exactly。
what was the heart of worship.。
And we read that Jesus said to him, Peter said to him,。
explain the parable to us.。
And he, Jesus, said, are you still without understanding?。
You see, my friends, tradition is something external.。
While God's truth is internal, it's in the heart.。
People can obey tradition to please men。
and gain status, but we obey the words to please God.。
Tradition deals with ritual, while God's truth。
deals with reality.。
Tradition brings empty words to the lips,。
but truth penetrates the heart and changes the life.。
Actually, tradition potentially robs a person。
of the power of the word of God.。
And this incident with the religious leaders。
and the disciples is particularly significant.。
As it sets up, what happens next?。
Jesus takes radical action.。
Let's read this.。
And Jesus went away from there and withdrew to the district。
of Tyre and Sidon.。
I've put a map on the screen.。
Jesus leaves the Galilee region, and he。
goes northwest to the coastal areas of Tyre and Sidon.。
Now, they're in modern-day Lebanon.。
And I just want to just pause for a moment there。
for a moment.。
Lebanon is very much in the news today.。
And really, just to ask you this week,。
please pray for Lebanon and the situation in the Middle East.。
Now, Tyre was about 35 miles from Capernaum,。
and Sidon was a 50-mile walk.。
Maybe this took two or three days.。
Now, this is actually very significant.。
This is the only time in Jesus' public ministry。
that he steps into strictly Gentile territory.。
Gentiles were the non-Jews, right?。
This is the only recorded time that we。
have that Jesus stepped into strictly Gentile territory.。
Not only did Jesus teach that no foods were unclean,。
but he practiced this by going into Gentile territory.。
He was also seeking to refresh himself。
from the increasing conflicts, especially。
with the religious people, and to withdraw a bit。
from the large crowds that were following him.。
And as he withdrew to a place of solitude,。
he actually meets a woman with a true heart of worship.。
He meets a woman with a true heart of worship.。
Mark 7:24 tells us that Jesus was actually。
trying to remain hidden.。
He was on sabbatical, right?。
But somehow, this Canaanite woman heard where he was。
and came to her with his need.。
But she wasn't what you expect.。
She didn't tick all the boxes.。
She wasn't baptized, confirmed, leading a small group,。
pillar of the church, studying for a theology degree,。
none of the above.。
One writer has said, there is no incident。
in our Lord's earthly ministry more puzzling than this.。
And so it begs investigation.。
I mean, look at her entrance.。
You've got it up there.。
And behold, a Canaanite woman from that region。
came out and was crying, have mercy on me,。
oh Lord, son of David.。
My daughter is severely oppressed by a demon.。
She begins with a plea for mercy.。
The cry, Lord, have mercy, kyrie eleison in Greek,。
has been described as the most prayed prayer in the Bible.。
But notice, she also calls Jesus the son of David,。
a messianic term coming from the lips of a Gentile, a non-Jew.。
She was clearly convinced about the person she was addressing.。
Now let's press in.。
Note the significance.。
Have mercy on me.。
Have mercy on me, oh Lord.。
It was her daughter that was demon possessed.。
But it is the mom who feels the weight, the fear, the despair,。
the hopelessness.。
Any parent who's had teenagers would identify with this.。
And of course, she was warmly welcomed by the disciples.。
Not, no way, Jose.。
Indeed, their response was underwhelming,。
to say the least.。
Let's read it.。
"But he," that's Jesus, "did not answer her word.。
And his disciples came and begged him, send her away,。
for she's crying out after us."。
Now this really throws us off balance.。
In Matthew 9, we read the story that Jairus was。
pleading for his little girl.。
And Jesus immediately takes steps to come to her aid.。
Now this woman comes to Jesus to seek mercy for her daughter.。
And Jesus seemingly ignores her.。
And the disciples began a hostile counterattack.。
Send her away, she's not one of us.。
A marginalized woman becoming even more marginalized.。
Van Yon Long, there is a practical outreach for us,。
an outworking of this.。
When we come to church, we like to talk to our friends。
or with the dudes who are cool and popular.。
But how do we react when it's a beggar, a street sleeper,。
a drug addict, or an LGBT member,。
or someone from another generation,。
or a different color?。
It begs a serious question.。
How does it feel when you are talking to someone。
and that person ignores you?。
Let's take it up a notch.。
How does that feeling change when。
you factor in the importance of the person you are talking to?。
When you talk to God about things,。
does it ever seem like he's ignoring you?。
Does it feel wonderful?。
I think not.。
This woman is not just passing the time.。
She's not commenting on the weather.。
Isn't it hard?。
She's not commenting on the weather or the Hang Seng Index.。
She has a demon-possessed daughter.。
I mean, she needs help.。
And the person who can help her is standing right。
in front of her.。
As Jesus' fame had grown, people from all over the region。
were drawn to him for help and rescue.。
She'd obviously heard these stories.。
And fueled by the anguish for her daughter,。
comes to Jesus and bears her soul to him.。
I want you to picture the scene here.。
The mom is shouting her head off.。
The disciples were having their five cents worth.。
On the other hand, Jesus was standing silently。
in the eye of the storm, rather like he。
was on the Sea of Galilee before he calmed the storm.。
The Canaanite woman must have felt。
like she was being put on hold.。
No one likes to be put on hold, do they?。
I don't know about you.。
I really detest these so-called hotlines,。
which are not so hot.。
Our lines are very busy.。
Your call is important to us, yeah, right?。
So please hold on, and one of our customer services。
representatives will be with you shortly.。
That's a lie.。
And then we're subject to either canned music or a barrage。
of advertisements.。
The dialogue then becomes even more difficult to understand.。
He, Jesus, answered, I was sent only to the lost sheep。
of the house of Israel.。
Did Jesus really tell her he wouldn't help her。
because of her ethnicity?。
I mean, we've had examples in the 20th century, haven't we?。
Churches in America, South Africa, no blacks allowed.。
You know, we've had that.。
And no doubt, the disciples were cheering in the background.。
This is getting more puzzling by the moment.。
But look at her response.。
She came before him and knelt.。
She knelt before him saying, Lord, help me.。
We cannot but admire the patience and the persistence。
of this Gentile mother.。
Lord, help me was her next plea.。
This time, she avoided any messianic titles.。
She came as a sinner needing help.。
And she offered no argument.。
Lord, help me.。
Now consider this.。
This woman appears to have been ignored, rejected, and insulted。
by Jesus.。
And still she comes forward and offers her worship to him.。
Surely, surely now Jesus will help。
this woman and her daughter.。
But it gets even more intriguing.。
If you can work this out, come and tell me afterwards.。
And he, Jesus said, is not right to take children's bread。
and throw it to the dogs.。
What?。
Just when you think things can't get any worse,。
Jesus appears to call her a dog.。
Now actually, in his reply, Jesus。
did not call her a dog in the way。
the Pharisees would have addressed a Gentile.。
The Greek word here means a little pet dog and not。
the filthy disease-carrying mongrels that ran the streets。
and ate the garbage.。
The children referred, of course,。
to the people of Israel.。
But I need to tell you, Jesus wasn't。
playing games with the woman.。
Nor was he trying to make the situation more difficult.。
What he was trying to do is draw out of her。
a growing response of faith.。
And she didn't disappoint.。
This is one of my favorite verses.。
She said, yes, Lord.。
But even the dogs eat the crumbs that。
fall from their master's table.。
She refuses to let go.。
She immediately seized on the illustration。
about the children's bread, which was exactly what he。
wanted her to do.。
We may paraphrase her reply.。
It is true that we Gentiles do not sit at the table。
as children and eat the bread.。
But even the pet dogs under the table。
can eat some of the crumbs.。
Now, Sandra and I understand this.。
Our pet husky, Lexi, parks herself under our dining table。
at dinner time, ready for the smallest。
crumb to drop from our plate.。
But what a tremendous testimony of faith.。
She was, in effect, saying, I'll gladly accept。
the crumbs under your table, but only if it。
is your table in your house.。
I've got no desire to deprive your children.。
Just let a crumb of grace fall to help my child.。
I accept your invitation, and I trust you to meet my need.。
It was this faith that Jesus acknowledged.。
And immediately, he healed a daughter.。
Then Jesus answered her, oh, woman, how great is your faith.。
Be it done for you as you desire.。
And her daughter was healed instantly.。
The question you might ask, why didn't he do that an hour ago?。
It is worth noting that both of the people。
in the Gospel of Matthew who were described。
as having great faith were Gentiles, the Canaanite woman。
and the Roman centurion in Matthew 8.。
In both cases-- get this one--。
in both cases, Jesus healed the one in need from a distance.。
Now, why?。
Because spiritually speaking, the Gentiles。
were a far off until Calvary, when。
Jesus died for both Jews and Gentiles。
and made reconciliation possible.。
This woman's faith was great because she persisted。
in asking and trusting when everything, everything。
seemed against her.。
Certainly, her race was against her.。
She was a Gentile.。
Her sex was against her.。
For most Jewish rabbis paid little attention to women.。
It seemed that the disciples were against her.。
And Christ's words might have led her to believe。
that even he was against her.。
All of these obstacles only made her persist further.。
Now, I've got a theory here.。
This was bizarre, right?。
Totally bizarre.。
This bizarre exchange was actually for the disciples.。
This bizarre exchange was actually。
for the benefit of the disciples.。
They had been brought up in a particular religious system.。
It needed them to be taken out of their comfort zone,。
their comfort zone of Palestine, to find a new reference。
point for what the heart of worship looks like.。
It was more than being fascinated by his teaching。
or impressed by his miracles.。
The appropriate response was humble faith and worship.。
And this Canaanite woman had demonstrated this heart。
clearly.。
The next verse, verse 29, is very telling.。
"Jesus went on from there and walked。
beside the Sea of Galilee."。
Now, most people would have missed this,。
because you would finish at verse 28.。
Look at what's happened.。
"Jesus turns his men around and heads back to Galilee.。
Two to three days' walk, only to immediately walk back。
another two to three days."。
Let me put this in context.。
It was the equivalent of getting out of here at lunchtime,。
walking to Guangzhou for dim sum lunch,。
because we all know it's better and cheaper there, right?。
Turning around and immediately walking back to Yuen Long.。
My friends, I believe this was no random visit.。
Jesus had come for this woman and her daughter.。
Why?。
Because he wanted to teach his disciples for them。
to encounter a heart of worship.。
He reached across both geographical, ethnic, religious,。
and cultural boundaries to reach her and to teach them.。
And what I've come this morning to tell you is this.。
I'll put it on the screen.。
He wants to both reach us and to teach us.。
He wants to both reach us and teach us.。
The Father reached us by sending his Son.。
Jesus reached us by entering into everything we face。
and struggle with in life.。
Our response is to give him our worship and trust,。
to give him our lives totally.。
We're going to sing a response song in a moment.。
If the band will just get ready in a moment.。
Going back to my first point about worship in church,。
this song was not written in the past couple of years.。
It was written 1896, 128 years ago.。
Look at some of the words we're going to be singing.。
I'll put them on the screen.。
All to Jesus I surrender.。
All to him I freely give.。
I will ever love and trust him in his presence daily live.。
All to Jesus I surrender.。
Humbly at his feet I bow.。
Worldly pleasures all forsaken.。
Take me, Jesus.。
Take me now.。
I surrender all.。
All means all.。
I surrender all.。
All to thee, my blessed Savior, I surrender all.。
I'm going to invite you to do something different this morning.。
I want to invite you to be like the Canaanite woman.。
Come before Jesus.。
And kneel before him.。
We don't do that in church very often, do we?。
I'm going to challenge you this morning.。
If you're unable to move physically to kneel, that's OK.。
I'm going to challenge us to kneel and say,。
Lord, have mercy on me as we sing this song.。
As we sing this song together.。
And I want to speak to anybody here this morning who is not。
yet following Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior.。
This is your opportunity now to come and give。
your life to Jesus Christ.。
And I'm going to invite you as we kneel,。
as we kneel before the throne, as we say, Lord, have mercy,。
as we sing this beautiful old song to kneel and to give。
your life to Jesus Christ.。
And if you do that, speak to somebody afterwards,。
and we'd love to pray for you.。
So church, year long church, this。
is a time of rededication for us.。
If you're happy to do that, I'm probably。
one of the oldest here.。
It's going to be more difficult for me than kneeling。
than anybody.。
If you'd like to join me in kneeling,。
we'll sing this song together.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
