Amen。
Amen, thank you Tim and happy Lunar New Year everyone and thank you for having me。
And I hope you are all enjoying the food, the festive decoration everywhere in Hong Kong。
and family time as well。
And at least you may enjoy the purple colour day I think。
So, in case you are not familiar with the culture of Lunar New Year。
Hong Kong basically is a big family thing。
We go out to visit our families and friends。
We gather and some of my friends would go to Mainland to visit their extended family as well。
So basically, Lunar New Year in Hong Kong is a huge family festival for us。
So, for my family, the Yu's family, our tradition is quite relatively simple。
We do not have many different dinners going on。
We just have one, like happening on the second day of the New Year, which is today。
And every year we gather on the second year of the New Year。
And as a kid I really enjoyed it。
When I was young, my mum always prepared new clothes, new shoes for me。
And then I would go over to my grandparents' house in the afternoon。
And then the adults would be playing mahjong, which they don't have much attention on us。
So for us as kids, it's perfect for snacks and chocolate。
So I really enjoyed it。
And then my grandma would be cooking a big meal for everyone。
So my dad has four siblings, so it's not many, many。
But if everyone is present, we still get up to 20 people for the dinner。
So my grandma always cooked for every one of us。
Of course, the licey part is the best part for kids。
So it was a very happy experience for me as a kid。
But since I started to grow up, I want to show you a meme。
And perhaps it's universal for family gatherings。
Your relative will start asking you questions you might not be super comfortable to answer。
Like, what school are you in? How's your academic results in school?。
Who is taller among me and my cousins?。
And when I grow up, they will ask me, how much do you earn a month?。
And I'm like, I'm not sure if I want to share that out loud in front of everyone。
So that's the part that I don't fully enjoy as I'm starting to become a teenager, I guess。
And the other thing is, you know, Lunar New Year for us is always happy gatherings。
Families, and we all want happy gatherings。
And there's a saying, you know, Lunar New Year has a lot of rules。
Like, you can't shower or wash your hair on the first day。
And I want to show you one rule that my mom always tells me。
Do not argue with people during CNY。
Because that will give you a whole year of turbulent relationships。
So you can't really have conflicts during the Lunar New Year。
But the tension still goes on, right?。
So as a teenager, when I sit at a table, I start to pick up a little bit of people's facial expressions。
They might not like each other, or some people will avoid sitting together。
You can tell every year they're doing that。
You know what I mean, right?。
So today I will read into the family dynamics with you guys。
We all want our family to be peaceful, drama-free, and we get to enjoy each other, right?。
But many of the time, it's not the case。
So if we cannot be excused from this complex situation。
How do we see God's goodness in the midst of all the tension that's going on around us?。
So actually, the Bible does not shy away from telling us the family dramas。
And we are going to look at Abraham's family today。
So we all know Abraham, who is one of the most important figures in the Bible, right?。
He's called to be the father of many nations and a blessing to all nations。
And he's also our father in faith as well。
So as Paul said, everyone who is in faith are descendants of Abraham。
So he is important to us。
But I think many of us know Abraham's story。
So God has a covenant with Abraham that he will bless him with many descendants。
And they will live in a promised land for many, many generations。
And we all know the rest of the story。
God gave Isaac to Abraham and his wife Sarah。
And then we have a covenant to Isaac and also Jacob and so on。
As we can tell from Exodus, we see that they are really having many descendants as God promised。
However, Abraham and his wife Sarah were childless when God gave them the promise。
And he was around 75 years old at that time, which is quite old already。
And they only had Isaac when Abraham was 100。
So there was a 25 years gap that, oh, we don't have a son。
So how would God's promise come true if I don't have a son?。
So I think that period of time might have been giving them a lot of stress。
Especially Sarah as a woman in those days。
They are quite stressful because she's childless。
There's a lot of shame, maybe stress going on in her life。
So she came up with a plan and she decided to give her slave called Hagar to Abraham。
And then they have a child together。
So that's what happened。
They have Ishmael。
But, however, 13 years later, God spoke to Abraham again。
He said, only the child from you and Sarah will be the promised son。
Oops, so what do we do with the son?。
But back in those days, not bad to have more children。
So we will pick up from the story here。
We will look at Genesis chapter 21 and see how the matter turns out。
So, Genesis chapter 21, verse 8。
The child, who is Isaac, grew and was weaned。
And Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned。
But Sarah saw the son of Hagar, the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, playing with her son Isaac。
So she said to Abraham, cast out this slave woman with her son。
For the son of this slave woman shall not inherit a lot along with my son Isaac。
The matter was very distressing to Abraham on account of his son。
So we see here, there is a huge conflict going on in this chosen family because of the sons。
And we can tell that Sarah doesn't seem to be happy with the other son, Ishmael。
And when he was playing with her own son Isaac。
We are not sure what exactly Ishmael did here。
But we saw that Sarah seemed to see that son as a threat to her and her son。
And she wanted Abraham to send Hagar and Ishmael away。
So when we read this, we might wonder。
Isn't that your suggestion for Abraham and Hagar to have a son together?。
Why are you doing this?。
Of course, Sarah's brokenness and her security plays a role here in the story。
However, when we look deeper into the story。
We see that there is something more going on within the dynamic of this family。
So when we look back a little bit in chapter 16。
When Hagar was conceived, the Bible said。
He went into Hagar and she conceived。
And when she saw that she had conceived。
She looked with contempt on her mistress。
So when we look at here, we can tell。
Maybe she is not fully innocent in this family。
Maybe she had done something to trigger a little bit of the tension in the whole family as well。
And for Abraham, if we pay attention to his words and his responses in the whole story。
We can see that he actually holds a little bit of a passive role in the whole family。
So when Sarah made a suggestion, he agreed and did that。
And when Sarah complains about Hagar, looked with contempt on her。
And he told Sarah, "It's your slave, you can do whatever you want with her"。
And now when Sarah asks for expelling Hagar and Ishmael。
His reaction was very distressed。
So we see that even though Abraham is very blessed。
He is the chosen one by God。
But he is not free from the family dramas and conflicts。
And he can mess things up too, just like you and me。
In this family, Sarah and Abraham might play a bigger role。
But we see that everyone in this family contributed to the dynamic and conflict。
I think by looking into this story, one thing I do want to note that。
There is no perfect family。
All families experience conflicts and somehow a level of dysfunction。
Because as Romans said, we are all sinned and fall short of the grace from God。
So I think that's one thing I want to acknowledge together。
That we are all living in somehow imperfect family as well。
Just not to discourage you, but let's acknowledge that we do mess things up。
And we all have a role in our family。
And we are significant in that way by the way how we behave。
Or what we say with our family members。
So no matter what role you are in。
Some of you may be taking a little bit more role as parents or as older siblings。
Or you have more responsibilities than others。
Some of you may feel that I have not much to say within my family's matters。
Maybe me as a kid younger, I can't really say anything about my family。
But I want to encourage you that you are all important to your own family。
Everything you do is contributing in your family。
And also as we are called to be the children of God。
I wonder how does it contribute to us in our family as well。
Of course our brokenness, our insecurity like Sarah may contribute to our family。
But the good things like as children of God。
Our faith, our love, our life that flow out from Jesus。
Has an impact in our family as well。
So what does it mean to have God in our family?。
And how do we involve God in our family as well?。
So let's take a look how God was involved in Abraham's family。
Perhaps it will give us some insights and direction。
So let's pick up from chapter 21, verse 12。
But God said to Abraham, "Do not be distressed because of the boy and because of your slave woman。
Whatever Sarah says to you, do as she tells you。
For it is through Isaac that offspring shall be named for you。
As for the son of the slave woman, I will make a nation of him also。
Because he is your offspring。
Early the next morning Abraham took some food and a skin of water。
And gave them to Hagar。
He set them on her shoulders and then sent her off with the boy。
She went on her way and wandered in the desert of Beersheba。
So God spoke to Abraham。
The first thing when we pay attention is addressing his emotion。
He saw that Abraham is very distressed。
And he also saw the reason behind it。
Abraham as the father of both sons, Ishmael and Isaac。
It must be very difficult for him to face that situation。
Because both of them are his sons。
And he loves them and has a responsibility with them as well。
But at the same time, Sarah is his wife whom he loved。
And also he has spent most of his life with Sarah as well。
So now he has to make a decision kind of between his sons and also his wife。
So we can kind of feel his emotion a little bit, right?。
But God sees that and shares how he wants the matter to be resolved。
He commands Abraham to follow Sarah's response to send them away。
We might wonder why would God even agree with that plan。
I'm sure the intention behind is very different。
God never intend to abandon Hagar and Ishmael。
Which we can see in the rest of the stories。
And I think here he is affirming his promise to Abraham and Sarah。
That Isaac is the promised son。
Even though they messed things up, they came up with another plan。
And kind of created a problem here that cannot be resolved。
God wants to show his faithfulness by providing a solution to the whole family。
We can tell if things go on and the family stays together。
Things might go even worse, right?。
So God here is addressing this problem and showing that。
I still care for your family。
Even though you messed up things a little bit。
And having something that you kind of deal with。
So we see that God also has a role in this family, in this promised family。
He concerns for each one of them。
And also take care of all members of the family。
It might seem to us that Hagar and Ishmael are out of the promise。
But God doesn't see that way。
He also cares and helps them when they are wandering in the wilderness。
So this is important for us。
No matter how we are doing in our family。
God is taking care of us。
And his grace is enough for us in whatever situations we have。
So after God gave his command。
It is Abraham's turn to make a decision。
As a father, it's hard to choose。
And after listening, he might also struggle。
It's hard to just let his son go。
But we definitely see that as a faith decision。
We don't know what will happen after sending them away。
We don't know whether they will survive。
We don't know whether they can really become a big nation。
Because he can't see that。
In those days, sending them away would mean that they will not meet again。
So I wonder how he feels when he sends them away。
But I think here, it's not only the faith。
Like, we trust God in every way and then we send them away。
It's not like that。
But actually, his action of faith, of sending them away。
Is an action of acknowledging God's role in our own family。
And put our trust to God that he will take care of them。
Even though we don't see how things turn out。
And we don't know what's going on in the future。
So I wonder how that speaks to us。
To our personal roles and responsibilities in our family as well。
That in some point, we can't control everything。
We have to let go and let God work among our family members。
To me, I think I really struggle with letting my brother go。
We grew up together until a few years ago。
He told me, "I actually want to move to another country to live in"。
I just want to let you know a little bit of our background。
I'm a super planner。
I'm those who will go to travel with an Excel。
I plan everything ahead。
But my brother is very chill。
He's just like, "Whatever, I'm happy with anything"。
So our personalities are very different。
So when he told me that he wanted to move out。
I was like, "Can you survive? You have a good job in Hong Kong。
Where are you going? You don't even know where you are going。
Do you have a plan? Do you know anyone?"。
I asked him so many questions。
I'm sure he was annoyed by me, by my questions。
Finally, in the end of 2022, he departed to Manchester in the UK。
He was by himself, he's not married。
He's just by himself and he has no friends there。
I have some friends there, I wanted to introduce him。
But he rejected me。
I'm like, "Are you serious?"。
One night when I was overthinking my overthink。
God spoke to me。
He said, "He's an adult now, actually he's 26 when he moved out。
You're not his mom either。
It's okay that he can live by himself。
He can flourish by himself。
It really spoke to me that night。
Why am I overthinking?。
My brother already said he would like to take charge of his life。
He doesn't need my help。
Why do I not have peace to just let him flourish in the UK?。
In fact, that's my personality。
Because my parents always taught me the responsibilities as an elder kid。
I need to take care of my younger brother, my younger cousins。
That's how I grew up。
I worry a lot when my brother is trying to do his own thing and out of my sight。
Last year I went with my dad to the UK to visit him。
I saw how happy he is。
He told me he planned ahead financially。
That allowed him to have some time, not to rush himself to find a job。
But really think about what he wants to do there。
With his life, with everything。
Seeing him that at peace and enjoying his life。
Makes me really want to praise God for how he has been。
With him, growing up and also taking care of him in the UK。
Even though I can't see, but I know that God takes care of him。
So it was really a very humbling experience。
Just to let go of my control on my brother。
And see how he can flourish there。
I know each one of you might have different parts。
Maybe not as a sibling。
But there are a lot of things that we want to take care of。
We think that's our responsibility。
Because this is how we are taught to be。
But I wonder if there's anything you would like to just let go。
And submit that to God and allow him to intervene。
And take care of the rest of your families。
So I wonder how the things can be different with God's intervention。
Let's go back to Abraham's story a little bit。
The change, I don't know whether you are aware of where the change comes from。
You have been doing your own thing。
And having Ishmael for a few years already。
But God can only intervene when Sarah voices out something is wrong。
So at the start of the story we see that。
Sarah saw how the two boys were playing together。
And she thinks something is wrong here。
And she voices out to Abraham。
And then after that God starts to speak to Abraham on this matter。
We see that, as I mentioned before, Abraham took a relatively passive role。
And we can see that he doesn't want to send the boys away。
Because he might not see that as a problem。
But we can only resolve a problem when you acknowledge there is one。
If you don't want to acknowledge it, nothing will be changed。
So Abraham's position is not new to us。
I want to address something, particularly in our culture。
In Chinese culture, there are a lot of people who like to avoid conflict。
Many of us have huge conflict avoidance。
We want to maintain the harmony at home and keep everyone together。
But the harmony on the surface is not exactly what we want。
We do not have peace just having harmony on the surface。
And seeing the tension, like my family's tension on the table。
It's not true peace, right?。
And also we like to greet each other with blessings in the beginning of the year。
That's a good thing to do, but let's not settle with that。
Let's not just settle with saying some blessings。
But actually be a blessing to the people around us。
So I wonder how we can actually be a blessing in our family。
When there are things that we might not be able to control。
I want to share a story with you, I struggle with that。
But I feel I want to share with you today。
My family is not, I struggle with my family basically。
My parents are divorced, and before they divorced。
They took a really long time with a lot of conflicts at home。
I know you might not expect this in Chinese New Year。
But anyway, I'll just share。
So one night, they were having a really intense fight with each other。
My brother and I were sharing a room at that time。
And then we overheard their fight。
And then we were not sure what to do in the room。
So as I said, my brother is a huge conflict avoidant。
And he was like, "Oh, I can't deal with that"。
And then he also said, "I'm not sure whether you can deal with that as well"。
Because I have always been the firecracker at home。
I make troubles and I stir things up。
And then I was like, "Yeah, maybe let's wait"。
But it takes so long, it's like until 1am, it's not resolved yet。
And I'm like, I prayed and I have peace。
And I go out and talk to my parents。
And then what I did was just simply calming them down。
I said, "You need to calm down right now"。
And it's 1am in the morning and we're not heading anywhere。
And I don't know what will happen。
That's all, and then I try to talk to them。
And they calm themselves down。
And decide to have a discussion later when they are calmer。
So, that's the case, I didn't do anything。
But the next day, my dad spoke to me。
I am the only Christian at home。
And my dad spoke to me。
And he always be a little bit unsure whether he likes me as a Christian。
Because he just doesn't believe that。
And don't know what I'm doing in church。
I'm always in church。
But he spoke to me that morning and said。
"Now I see how God works in your life"。
And you were never that calm in conflicts。
But you did that very well last night。
And so I wonder, in the midst of our family dynamics。
In the midst of different things going on in our family。
How do we be the one that stands in front of God。
And be the person that can minister God's goodness in our family。
So I know that it's uneasy to do that。
It's uneasy for me to do that as well。
As we attend to the bigger gathering。
There's too many things going on。
But I wonder how we can do that。
I want to encourage you with what Paul says to us。
He describes us as God's temple。
And the Holy Spirit dwells in us。
That means people actually can meet God through us。
Because we are God's temple。
In the past, people can only go to the temple to pray to God。
To ask the priest to have sacrifice。
And now, since Jesus Christ has come。
And gave us the Holy Spirit。
We are the temple。
And people see God through us。
So as we are。
Probably many of you will be going to family gatherings。
I want to encourage you that。
There's a significance in you。
And because God is in you。
So I don't know how you can do that。
You might feel I'm not that significant in my household。
And I don't have much to say。
But God does not look contempt on you。
He sees your role。
He sees that you are important to your family。
As your family members will see him through you。
So。
I would like to pray for us。
So can I invite you to stand?。
Let's start with a little bit of reflections on ourselves。
Let's think about what role do we hold in our family。
What relationship do we have?。
How are we doing with interacting with the people?。
No matter what's going on。
We know that God is with us。
He sees our situation。
He sees those unspoken things。
Even though we might not want to acknowledge。
Thank you。
Holy Spirit we want to invite you to be with us in our family。
We acknowledge that we are imperfect。
We mess things up。
But your grace is enough。
May you reveal to us。
Is there any area we need your help on?。
We don't necessarily need to。
We solve everything by ourselves。
But you are the father of our household as well。
So may you speak to us and allow us to see。
What we can bring your love and your grace to our family。
Perhaps some of us notice something is wrong。
And we are unsure how to say about it。
I pray that your wisdom and your strength is in us。
May you give us strength。
Give us the words on how to communicate with our family。
With love, with patience。
Some of us may be avoiding some difficult decisions or conversations。
God we pray that you will guide us。
And allow us to have the courage to bring you to our family。
To bring you perhaps some of the solutions to our family as well。
So Lord, we need you because we are imperfect。
We don't know everything。
We don't know how to handle every situation that we are going through。
So Lord, we pray that you will come with us。
Perhaps some of us feel that we are nobody in our family。
We can't really decide or contribute。
But we know that in you we are not like that。
We are important, we are significant as your children。
So Lord, may your goodness flow out from us。
May you use us in our family。
To extend the real blessings to the people around us。
As we gather, we pray that your goodness, your love, your faith will go with us。
And you will minister to the people around us。
To those who don't know you yet through us。
So Lord, may we be your temple。
May you show your goodness to the people around us, to our family。
Help us and be with us。
We pray in Jesus name。
Amen。
Thank you。
Why don't we sing and declare this together。
