Good morning, everyone.。
It is such a treat to be here。
and to share God's word with you。
and yeah, and just to worship together.。
As Andrew said, Marian and I delight。
in worshiping here every Sunday.。
And every Sunday, God says something, speaks to us.。
And we normally sit over kind of in this area over here。
where Sarah and Raul, a little bit this side of Carl.。
And it's not a special place, of course.。
He'll speak to us in any part of the room.。
But God speaks.。
And one of the things I believe he's saying this morning。
is just how much he loves you.。
And that when he looks at you, he sees something of beauty.。
So before we start in anything, know that.。
Know that God is here and he speaks.。
Now, when, I was gonna call you Father Andrew,。
but you're Pastor Andrew.。
Hello.。
When Pastor Andrew asked if I would preach last month,。
I had to really think about it for a little bit。
because I knew that February was gonna be a very tough time。
for the work at the university.。
And so I told him I'd go away and pray about it。
and think about it.。
So I went away, prayed about it and thought about it。
and thought about it some more.。
And, but you know, it's very difficult。
to say no to Pastor Andrew.。
And it's especially difficult to say no to Pastor Andrew。
when the Holy Spirit gives you a title of yes。
in your sermon.。
And that's what we're talking about today, getting to yes.。
Because as I prayed, I felt this was the topic,。
getting to and staying at yes.。
The, what that means exactly for each one of us,。
I'm not sure.。
I think as a community globally and here in Hong Kong,。
we're coming out of a period of no, a season of no,。
where it was no, lots of restrictions.。
And now we're emerging into this season of yes.。
But what does that look like?。
And what does it look like for you。
in your getting to yes with God?。
Because that's what we're focusing on.。
For some of us, it might mean this morning。
that that might be the big yes to follow Jesus Christ.。
Maybe you're here and you haven't yet said yes to Jesus.。
And my prayer is that you would,。
because there is so much joy。
and a beautiful journey awaiting you.。
It may be that you've said yes,。
and probably for most of us, it is we have said yes.。
But maybe there are pockets of our lives that are nos.。
And on this first Sunday of Lent,。
as we make our way to Easter,。
what would it look like to be all in,。
to be completely a yes?。
What would it look like for parts of your lives,。
which may be a no, to be positioned, repositioned as a yes?。
Or maybe it's a situation.。
Maybe it's in a relationship,。
and you're feeling God is leading you to a yes.。
Or maybe He's leading you to yes to wait on a relationship.。
Or maybe it's something at work.。
Last week, Pastor Andrew preached on courage.。
And maybe you feel God's leading you somewhere,。
but it's a bit scary, and you need that courage.。
I don't know what it is.。
But I do know this, that getting to yes,。
truly getting to yes, not just with our mind。
and with our word, but with our heart,。
is sometimes difficult.。
So that's what we're gonna talk about today,。
is how do we get to yes in those challenging areas?。
In the 1990s, Marian and I lived in London.。
We went to Alsos Church, and John Stott was there。
different times during that period.。
And one night, he just mentioned kinda casually offhand。
that Peter, three times, had said no to Jesus.。
Once on the road to Jerusalem,。
once in the upper room at Jerusalem,。
and once in a small town of Joppa.。
And at the time, it just kinda stuck away.。
I thought, that's kind of interesting.。
But in the last few months, as I've been going through。
a particular challenging part in my life,。
I have found these times to be encouraging and challenging。
to help me begin to shift, as Peter did,。
his no's to a yes.。
So what I'd like to do this morning is to do that,。
to look at the scripture, to look at how Peter said no,。
but then eventually was able to say yes,。
in the hopes that it might encourage you.。
And in the hopes that it might move us all to a yes。
as we get ready for Vision Sunday,。
as we go into this Easter Lenten journey.。
Does that sound okay?。
- Yes. - Yes.。
- Yes. - Good.。
It's kinda hard to say no, isn't it?。
All right, so I'll be, no.。
Okay, so we'll go to the scripture.。
But before we go to the scripture,。
as Andrew said, that I work with a group。
at University of Hong Kong, HKU,。
called Faith and Global Engagement.。
Work with Carl there.。
A couple of our other people were here。
earlier in the morning, but Faith and Global Engagement.。
And the area that I work on the most is,。
as Pastor Andrew said, character leadership.。
Now, a good part of character is reflection,。
that you have to reflect on your character。
as your character step-by-step strengthens.。
So what we're gonna do is,。
I thought I'd show you a little bit of。
what we are at Lead for Life as a program.。
So if we go to that slide.。
This is actually a photograph that was taken last weekend,。
just this last Saturday.。
Now, some of you may recognize your faces in there。
because there are a number of you from the Vine。
who are leaders, who are mentors in the program.。
And you'll see there right in the middle, our neon sign,。
and behind our neon sign, a Benedictine monk.。
Now, what is a Benedictine monk doing there at HKU?。
So the topic was meditation, wellness, and leadership.。
Because we don't often connect meditation and leadership,。
and yet the best leaders are reflective,。
they're contemplative.。
So we try to teach our students how to reflect well.。
And we use an iceberg metaphor.。
So as we look at this iceberg metaphor,。
then you'll see that there, there's your iceberg,。
and then the reflection reactions on the right.。
Now, our senior research director,。
our project manager at Faith and Global Engagement,。
Hualun, he does a great job at getting people to understand,。
getting students to understand how do you reflect on things.。
And the reason I'm saying this to you。
is because I want us to use this tool。
to reflect on Peter's nose,。
so that we can really reflect in our lives。
and see what they have to teach us.。
So basically, at the very top,。
and we all know that the iceberg metaphor。
is you only see the tip of the iceberg, right?。
The bulk of the iceberg is below the surface.。
And that's how it is with our lives too, right?。
People only see a tip of us,。
but the bulk of us is in our heart.。
And that's where the heart of the matter is.。
And that's where change happens, okay?。
But if you go through, first of all,。
you come across a topic and it looks interesting.。
So you say, hmm, that looks interesting.。
So hmm, three nose from Peter,。
that might be interesting, right?。
And then you go to the ah.。
And the ah is, that could be useful.。
That could be useful.。
So maybe when I look at the three nose of Peter,。
it might be useful for an area in my life。
where I have a no, right?。
Now, when Walloon does this with us,。
he makes us do the noises.。
He makes us do the sounds.。
Okay, so you guys ready for this?。
11 o'clock, you've already had your coffee.。
You're good to go, right?。
Okay, so when we see something might be interesting,。
we say, hmm, that's interesting.。
And then we go down to the ah.。
That might be useful.。
But now we gotta go below the water, right?。
And when we go below the water,。
we get to that moment that we all have heard of, aha.。
Okay, so it goes, hmm, ah.。
Aha, you guys are brilliant, you're real.。
Definite material for character leadership.。
We'll sign you up.。
And the aha is where we're going to be going today。
because we're gonna be going below the surface.。
We're gonna be going,。
we're gonna be looking at the surface scriptures.。
We're gonna be looking at hopefully something that's useful。
but where we want to go is into our hearts。
because that's where the Holy Spirit works。
and that's where true joy and beauty。
and fullness and flourishing and all that happens.。
So using this, let's go on now to the three times。
that Peter said no.。
So the first one we'll look at。
is found in Matthew 16, 21 to 23.。
And here, basically, Peter is saying no to the cross.。
And so as we read this, it says, from that time on.。
So you might wanna just keep that phrase in your mind,。
from that time on.。
From that time on, Jesus began to explain to his disciples。
that he must go to Jerusalem。
and suffer many things at the hands of the elders,。
the chief priests and the teachers of the law,。
and that he must be killed。
and on the third day be raised to life.。
Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him.。
Never, Lord, he said.。
This shall never happen to you.。
And Jesus turned and he said to Peter,。
get behind me, Satan.。
You are a stumbling block to me.。
You do not have in mind the concerns of God,。
but merely human concerns.。
Okay, never a good position。
when Jesus is calling you Satan, right?。
But what can we learn from this?。
Now, remember, these are friends,。
and friends have a beautiful way。
of talking directly to each other.。
And they are talking very directly to each other.。
And there is a direct exchange between the two.。
But what can we learn?。
I think to learn, we need to go back a few passages earlier.。
On the road to Jerusalem,。
this is leading up to the crucifixion.。
This is the last time Jesus is going to Jerusalem.。
On the road earlier, Jesus had turned to his disciples。
and he had asked the question, who do people say I am?。
He's something of a celebrity, crowds are coming,。
and he wants to know, who do people say that I am?。
And the disciples say, well, some say that you're Elijah,。
and others say you're a prophet.。
And then Jesus asks the core question for all of us.。
And he says, who do you say that I am?。
And Peter says, you're the Messiah.。
You're the son of God.。
You're our Messiah.。
And Jesus says, blessed are you, Peter,。
because that was revealed to you.。
Now, that's just a few passages earlier, right?。
And then we hit this moment, this big no.。
So what is Peter saying no to?。
I believe Peter is saying no to Jesus when he says,。
no, that's not how the Messiah works.。
You don't know how the Messiah works, Jesus.。
Yes, you're the Messiah, but this is not how it works。
with crucifixion, with the suffering,。
with people turning on you.。
This is not how it works.。
Basically, what Peter is saying no to。
is he's saying no to the way of the cross.。
He's actually saying no to the way that got all of us here.。
So he's saying no to a big thing.。
And he's saying no to the cross。
because he's saying no to the how.。
And I get this because I say no the same way.。
I often say no to the how of God is working.。
And often it's because it's the way of the cross.。
Sometimes I'm like the proverbial CEO or leader who says,。
he says, let's all work together and do it my way.。
And I kind of feel that sometimes with God, right?。
Maybe you've worked with one of those leaders,。
but I feel that way sometimes with God.。
It's like, okay, God, let's work together and do it my way.。
But that's not how God works, fortunately.。
And where do we go from there?。
I find this really challenging in a specific area of healing.。
In the area of healing.。
I grew up born, raised in Nigeria.。
My parents were medical missionaries.。
I believe in the power of healing。
through the medical practices and the gifts of healing。
that are given to our medical people.。
I believe also in the Bible and the stories that I see。
of people bringing people to Jesus to be healed.。
But whether you bring them to a hospital。
or you bring them directly to Jesus,。
you're bringing them ultimately to God.。
And this last year has been a tough one.。
My dad's 96.。
He's an amazing man.。
He's kind of like a Caleb。
and take the next mountain type man,。
but he's 96 and he's been going through some challenges.。
My brother also was in the hospital。
with some very tough times.。
Had other areas in our family and in our extended family。
where we've been crying out and saying,。
"God, this is not how it works.。
"God, this is how it works.。
"I'll quote you your word, God."。
And say, "Your family gets sick,。
"you bring them to God and they get healed."。
But it wasn't kind of working that way。
because God is God.。
And as I was looking and struggling this。
and Mary and I were going through some of this stuff,。
then I thought about when our kids were growing up.。
We were blessed to have three adult children.。
And when they were growing up, we prayed for them.。
Mary and I prayed for them。
that they would become people of character.。
We wanted them to be strong strength character,。
people of character.。
Kids being kids, they got into all types of trouble, right?。
And got into all types of situations.。
Some of them not of their own, it's just life, right?。
But they would get into challenging situations.。
And so when they would get in those challenging situations,。
we would pray, "God, get them out of that situation quickly."。
And we would pray for them,。
make them children of character.。
And at some point I felt like God was saying to me,。
"What do you want?。
"Do you want them to be children of character。
"or do you want me to take them out of the place。
"where they're gonna learn their character?"。
And so Marian is a much quicker learner than I am.。
And so together we begin to learn。
that maybe there's a different way to pray.。
Maybe we can pray a how prayer。
when we don't understand God's how,。
but maybe it's a different how.。
And so I wanted to offer you this prayer.。
It's a short one, but it goes like this,。
"Lord, how do you want me to pray?"。
And then that begins to shift things a bit.。
There's a beautiful 14th century classic。
called "The Cloud of Unknowing."。
And in there he says, "Short prayers pierce heaven."。
Short prayers pierce heaven.。
Can I hear an amen?。
I pray too long sometimes.。
But short prayers, particularly in these situations,。
there's a time for all prayers,。
but there's, particularly in this situation,。
this short prayer, "Lord, how do you want me to pray?"。
Because here's what it does.。
It begins to open up and shift things.。
Earlier when we were praying,。
Andrew had a picture of this car in a parking lot。
that was kind of trying to get out。
of a very narrow Hong Kong parking place,。
and it was on this 20-point turn, back and forth,。
couldn't get out, right?。
And it kind of is a picture for maybe some of us.。
We may feel stuck.。
We may feel stuck in one of these situations.。
This may be where your no is.。
It has been for me.。
But then when you begin to pray,。
how do you want me to pray?。
How should I pray, God?。
Then it begins to unleash something in us,。
this hope and this courage.。
If we look again at the passage,。
there's this beautiful truth。
that Jesus says to Peter at the end,。
"You are a stumbling block to me."。
And then he says this,。
"You do not have in mind the concerns of God,。
"but merely human concerns."。
Now think about that for a moment.。
God has concerns.。
Have we asked him what his concern is?。
Because sometimes we're caught up in our human concerns,。
and these may be very good human concerns,。
a family member that needs healing.。
But it's a beautiful thing when we can say,。
"Lord, how do you want me to pray?。
"What are you concerned about?"。
And then it begins to open things up.。
That was Peter's first no.。
Okay, let me pause there.。
Is this making sense?。
Yeah, it's okay?。
It's good, you're still saying yes?。
Okay, all right, that's good.。
So let's go on to the second one.。
This one happened on the road to Jerusalem.。
The next no happens actually in Jerusalem.。
And that next no comes from John.。
And John chapter 13, three through eight.。
And this no is taking place in the upper room.。
So they're in Jerusalem, night before crucifixion,。
and it's the foot washing.。
So we have here, "Jesus knew that the Father。
"had put all things under his power,。
"and that he had come from God and was returning to God."。
Okay, I'm just gonna pause there.。
That is a beautiful description of Jesus as our leader.。
He had all power.。
And he knew where he would come from。
and where he was going.。
He was grounded, right?。
And then in this power, he picks up the towel,。
the symbol of service.。
That's something we're trying to help our students。
understand, that it's the powerful that serve.。
It's the powerful that are able to do that.。
Thomas Merchant says, "The sign of humility is strength."。
And it's okay.。
So that's a different sermon.。
I'll go into that in a later one.。
But I want you to understand that。
because this is the context where then Jesus,。
then it says, "He poured water into a basin,。
"and he began to wash his disciples' feet,。
"drying them with a towel that was wrapped around him.。
"He came to Simon Peter, who said to him,。
"Lord, are you gonna wash my feet?。
"And Jesus replied, you do not realize now what I'm doing,。
"but later you will understand.。
"No, said Peter, you shall never wash my feet.。
"Then Jesus answered, unless I wash you,。
"you have no part with me."。
Okay, strong exchanges again, right?。
Don't you love Peter?。
It's rarely just a no.。
You know, it's a never, not, whatever, you know?。
There's something going on here.。
And there's something in his vehemence.。
You'll see this in the third note too.。
Because I think what's going on here。
is it's touching something below the waterline.。
This is now getting down to the heart.。
Something is changing with Peter.。
Do you remember those first four words I was talking about?。
From this time on, he began to teach.。
In other words, he started changing his teaching,。
and Peter was struggling to catch up。
because that's not what we had talked about before.。
Here, it's normally the servant in a night like this.。
At the Passover, who would serve them.。
But now it's Jesus, and things are changing.。
And change is hard, and it cuts to the core.。
And we wanna say no immediately,。
when maybe we need to say yes.。
And that's a little bit what's going on here.。
But honestly, I don't know what Peter is saying no to.。
I'm not sure, really.。
At first I thought, well, he's saying no。
because he doesn't want to become this type of Messiah。
that's gonna lead and get down on the ground。
and wash people's feet.。
Because if he's doing it, I'm gonna have to do it too.。
But maybe it's not that simple.。
Maybe he doesn't wanna be served by Jesus.。
And that's the gospel, right?。
The gospel's not only giving love, but it's receiving love.。
And if we can't receive love, we can't give.。
And if we can't give, we can't receive.。
If we can't serve others, we can't be served.。
If we can't be served, we can't serve others.。
I think maybe that's it, but I'm not sure.。
Sometimes we used to have foot washing services,。
and no one wanted to take off their shoes。
because they didn't like their feet, right?。
Maybe this Peter is like, "I don't think so, not tonight."。
But I think there's something going on here, D.。
What I do know, what I do know。
is that Peter is not tracking with what's going on.。
He's not understanding what's happening.。
And the way we know that is because Jesus says that.。
He says to him, "You do not realize what I'm doing,。
"but later you will understand."。
You don't realize what I'm doing, Peter,。
but later you will understand.。
In other words, Jesus is saying, "Trust me, trust me."。
And this is the next prayer, and it's a very simple prayer.。
It's a prayer that says, "Lord, help me to trust you."。
The word trust has been at the front of my prayer journal。
for the last 14 months, and I'm still learning.。
It will probably be there tomorrow.。
Trust is key to our relationship.。
Last Thursday night, Mary and I were having a conversation,。
and it was a tough one,。
and we were trying to figure out what to do.。
We're trying to understand what was going on.。
And in the end, we came up with,。
"We're just gonna have to trust God in this."。
And that may be where you're at.。
And if you are there, I wanna give you a prophetic word。
straight from Jesus, where Jesus is looking at you。
and he's saying, "You don't realize what I'm doing,。
"but trust me, you will.。
"You will, you will realize."。
Peter did.。
Peter got to a yes.。
He got to a yes on the cross.。
He went to his own cross.。
He got to a yes with preaching the cross in Pentecost.。
He got to a yes here.。
He let Jesus wash his feet, and he preached about service。
and receiving and giving it.。
Trust, that's the second.。
No.。
Now the third one.。
We'll go on to the third no.。
Still okay?。
Yeah, still working?。
Okay.。
Let's keep praying for each other and praying for me。
as we hear what it is that the Holy Spirit is saying to us,。
because now I think we're getting。
a little more challenging, okay?。
'Cause now we've been at the level of,。
"Hmm, that's interesting.。
"Jesus' best friend or one of his best friends。
"said no to him, and I've got a no, okay,。
"so it's probably gonna be okay.。
"That's interesting.。
"Hmm, those prayers might be useful."。
Not, "Hmm, ah, those prayers might be useful."。
But now we're down to the waterline,。
and now we're down to what's really going on in our hearts.。
We're going to the bulk of the matter.。
Now in these two no's,。
there's been something they've had in common,。
which is a little bit troubling to me.。
We'll see that in the third no, very clearly.。
And so let's go on to the third no。
and recognize that we are plunging below the water here.。
Okay, so when we go to the third no, we're in Acts 10.。
Now a lot has happened before this passage.。
The last, the second no, was right before the crucifixion.。
Then came the crucifixion.。
Then came the resurrection, the lead up to Easter,。
which we're in right now, to Lent.。
And then came the Pentecost,。
the glorious day of Pentecost,。
where the Holy Spirit fell,。
and there was joy and there was a spreading out.。
And then came persecution,。
and there was more spreading out, but in a different way.。
And then came Peter in a little town named Joppa.。
And it says he was there and he kind of tarried there.。
He waited there for a while.。
And while he was waiting, this happened.。
About noon the following day, as they were on their journey。
and approaching the city, Peter went up on the roof to pray.。
He became hungry and wanted something to eat.。
And while the meal was being prepared, he fell into a trance.。
He saw heaven opened and something like a large sheet。
being let down to earth by its four corners.。
It contained all kinds of four-footed animals,。
as well as reptiles and birds.。
And then a voice told him, "Get up, Peter, kill and eat."。
"Surely not," Peter replied.。
"I have never eaten anything impure or unclean."。
The voice spoke to him a second time.。
"Do not call anything impure that God has made clean."。
This happened three times.。
And immediately the sheet was taken back up to heaven.。
Okay, Peter's back on form, right?。
Surely not, I've never done this.。
What's the issue here?。
What's the issue of this vision?。
This grand, great, vast vision of open doors and love.。
The context is that at this time,。
Christianity is still part of Judaism.。
It hasn't left Judaism.。
It's part of Judaism, it's a sect within Judaism。
that believes that Jesus is the Messiah.。
And in that context,。
they're still following all the dietary laws,。
all of this which basically went against the dietary laws。
of the Jews at the time.。
And there's something even bigger happening,。
which we're about to find out.。
Because this is not about food.。
The vision is about people.。
And we see that in the first line,。
they were on their journey.。
Now, who was the they?。
The they was a group of Gentiles。
coming from a Gentile named Cornelius.。
Because at this time,。
there were the Jews and there was everybody else, right?。
The Gentiles, most of us in this room I'm gathering.。
And basically the word, the promise was for the Jews.。
Now, there was a man named Cornelius, a great leader.。
And he loved God and he was praying to God.。
And he was praying to God over here,。
saying God, calling for God's favor.。
And God told him,。
"Look, there's another guy over here named Peter."。
So he's also praying.。
Now, here's what I found.。
When you have two people praying in two different camps,。
a bridge is about to be built, right?。
Because that's how bridge building works.。
And if you're in a situation like that, pray.。
And pray that someone on the other side is praying.。
And then that bridge becomes together, right?。
Because here's the thing.。
God is opening up the doors to the Gentiles.。
He's opening it up to everyone.。
He's opening up the vision, the good news, the life,。
flourishing, all of that to all of us.。
And he's saying, "Here it is, Peter.。
"It's for everyone."。
And Peter is saying, "No," three times.。
This is the hardest no for Peter.。
So it's three times he has to be challenged.。
But he does say yes.。
He shifts to a yes.。
He goes downstairs.。
He goes downstairs and this they,。
in that first line, has arrived now.。
They say, "Will you come to our house?"。
That's also not allowed for Peter。
to go into a Gentile's house.。
He says yes.。
He goes with them.。
He goes into the house.。
They say, "Welcome."。
And he says, "You know I'm not supposed to be here."。
They said, "Yes, but thank you for coming."。
And then they begin to worship.。
And the Holy Spirit falls in power.。
And Peter is amazed.。
And he says, "The Holy Spirit is for everyone.。
"It's for all of us."。
And then in Acts 15, there's a big meeting。
of the church about this issue.。
And there's two people there you may have heard of,。
Paul and Barnabas.。
And they've come back from a mission.。
They're saying, "The Gentiles are welcomed as well.。
"Everyone is welcome."。
And there's a conference, right?。
There's a little controversy going on there.。
And Peter stands up and puts his influence。
behind Paul and Barnabas and us,。
and says, "I've seen the Holy Spirit work in them."。
We can't call anything impure,。
which God has called clean.。
That's the vision.。
And that's an open vision.。
And what does that say to us?。
Are there any that we have called impure,。
unclean, not quite fully in,。
that we should fully welcome?。
My mom used to say growing up,。
there's always room for one more at the table.。
But it doesn't just invite people to worship.。
It doesn't just invite people to the table to fellowship.。
When you invite someone at the table,。
you give them a voice.。
They can tell their story.。
You share their story.。
It becomes one.。
That's the vision that Peter is struggling with.。
And it's a vast vision.。
Are there people of different lifestyles。
that we say, "You can come this far, but no further?"。
Are there people of different faiths。
we say, "You can come here, but not there?"。
Are there people we'll say, "We'll meet you here,。
"but you won't be in our home?。
"I won't go into your home?"。
Do you see the vision that Peter is working with?。
And thank God he got to yes, or we wouldn't be here.。
Well, there'd be maybe another way,。
but it was the vision of yes.。
And so that is the vision.。
We're going much deeper now, right?。
And now we're coming to that area。
that I said I struggled with, with the three nos.。
Because when I begin to really unpack this text,。
and when I really begin to have the text,。
ask the text to work on me as I was working on it,。
then I found something in me that I didn't like.。
And it might be something, and I think at some level,。
it's probably in all of us, and that is controlling.。
We want to control things.。
Particularly in uncertain times,。
we want as much control as we can get.。
And so we kind of put that on God, right?。
We quote verses to God, or we tell God how to do things.。
But when Peter said yes to the cross,。
he was saying, "Not my will, but your will be done."。
And when he said yes to the towel,。
he's saying, "I don't really understand,。
"but I'm gonna trust you on this."。
And when he says yes to the vision,。
he's saying, "Whatever you want to do, do it."。
(silence)。
So let's go back to our iceberg.。
Because on the iceberg, we've now gone below the waterline,。
and we're down here at the aha.。
But what we've just said, if we really put into practice,。
it's gonna take courage.。
And thankfully, Pastor Andrew preached on that last week.。
It's also gonna take each other.。
It's gonna take everyone in this room.。
And thankfully, there's a fourth level to the iceberg.。
And the fourth level is ahaha.。
Just to add a little bit of joy on the journey as we go.。
But so this is the ahaha.。
Now the ahaha is, it's kind of hard to say that。
without smiling, so it's you and me.。
It's not just an aha moment for you.。
It's an aha moment for us.。
And so as we come into this journey to Lent and Easter,。
as we come to get ready for the Vision Sunday as a church,。
it's basically saying, we want this ahaha, right?。
We wanna be open, fully opened.。
So here's what I'm gonna do.。
I'm gonna close with another simple prayer.。
But this prayer, I'm gonna invite us to do more communally.。
And because we need, we need each other.。
We can't do this without the Holy Spirit.。
We can't do this alone.。
We still need courage as we go through it.。
When I was in college, in university,。
then I was about the same age as actually 11。
of the students we work with.。
And so I was 19.。
And as I was there in my second semester。
of my sophomore year, I went to a church on a Sunday night.。
And I remember it's a small town in Texas, Waco,。
probably never heard of it.。
And a small town in Texas.。
And I went to a church on a Sunday night.。
I remember it was raining.。
I was obviously late because the pastor。
was already preaching when I came in.。
And I sat in the back row and the pastor was preaching on,。
I've been crucified with Christ.。
It's no longer I that live,。
but Christ that lives in me, from Galatians, from Paul.。
And he kept saying, what does that mean?。
What does that mean?。
And at the very end, he said, this is what it means.。
And then he gave us this prayer.。
And this prayer is a yes prayer.。
This prayer says, whatever you want me to do, Lord,。
I will do it.。
And so he said, so go home tonight and pray this.。
So I did, with all the courage and risk of a 19 year old.。
And then about four or five days later,。
I got a call from an organization saying that。
the person who's supposed to go to Haiti next semester。
can't go.。
We saw that you had international experience.。
Would you like to go?。
And it's hard to say no, right?。
You have to say yes.。
That prayer has led us around the world for Marian and I.。
It's led us to London.。
It led us to Bonn.。
It led us to Zurich.。
It led us to Hong Kong 11 years ago.。
It's led us right now to our current work, Marian's work,。
and then my work at the university.。
So I want to offer it to you as a guiding prayer,。
as a yes prayer, as a prayer that maybe。
we can pray all together.。
So what I want to do now is do that with your permission.。
So let's just close in prayer.。
Felt led to do this。
starting in a time of silence.。
I felt God was saying that one thing we could give each other。
is prayer, and so gave these prayers today.。
But first of all, I want you just to be still.。
Life is hectic.。
Just be still.。
Enjoy the stillness.。
You're in a safe space.。
And then to begin to orient your mind towards God.。
And then to be attentive to what God might be saying.。
Attention is one of the highest forms of love.。
And then to receive.。
And the first thing I would invite you to receive。
is the love of God.。
Just to feel how deeply he loves you.。
He loves you.。
And then in that context, just begin to talk to him.。
Talk to Jesus as a friend.。
Talk directly and listen.。
And if the spirit is leading you, maybe pray this prayer.。
If the spirit's not leading, just wait.。
Maybe there'll be another time.。
But to begin to pray.。
If there's an area of no in your heart,。
you identified it right away,。
or maybe you identified it as we began to talk,。
maybe go there and ask God how you should pray.。
And trust him.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
