Wow, how do we follow that up? We'll try, I'll try. I just want to say good morning to everyone。
watching online. I want to just send some love to my parents watching from Toronto, Canada.。
And Overflow, I can't see you, but I can see through the walls. I know you're there. And so。
Upper House, I welcome everyone. You know, if you're just joining us, we are in this incredible。
series. And I think there's never, we should always be talking about the Holy Spirit. So we've。
been talking and thinking and wrestling with our understanding with the Holy Spirit. And let me。
summarize, if you have not been here, what we've been covering, what we've learned together. We。
learned that the Holy Spirit is a person and not a force that we can conjure any time because we。
want something. But the Holy Spirit as a person dwells in us as believers to illuminate and reveal。
to us who God is. That's what we talked about last time. But also the Holy Spirit reorders and。
restores all the chaos that is within us and happening around us. The Holy Spirit comforts。
and restores and heals us as our elder Susanna spoke about. And for us, if we are serious and。
we want to experience and encounter the work of the Spirit, then we have to have a willingness,。
a surrenderedness to say, "Lord, give it to me. I am here to hear whatever you have." And so today,。
I want to focus on the work of the Spirit in our personal life, but also in our congregational life.。
So in my preparation, I kind of look back on my own faith journey. I'm going through a midlife。
confusion. Some call it midlife crisis, whatever, right? Whatever it is, it doesn't matter. But I'm。
grateful for this life that I have with you, but also just what God has given me. And so when I。
look back, I look back when I was a new Christian. I came to Christ when I was 16. And looking back,。
I know the Holy Spirit was with me every single step of the way, illuminating, teaching me,。
showing me how to be a better person in His eyes from His perspective, but also teaching me。
what it meant to live in the Word. And when I look back, as much as God was there, the Spirit of God。
was there, who was also there were my boys. And so I want to show you this photo for... This was。
the day I got baptized. And I know, you know, and looking back, I cannot separate my growth and my。
love for God and Jesus and the Holy Spirit from the friendship that I've had with these boys.。
And to this day, we still meet up. And as 16-year-olds, we spent time just goofing around,。
laughing, playing sports. But what was really memorable for me was every week, we would spend。
three, four hours in God's Word. And so I am grateful to God for bringing these guys into my。
life. And so from there, I grew up a bit into my 20s. And as a young adult, I spent all my 20s and。
my 30s here, and hopefully I spend my 40s here. But it was different in that time. The Holy Spirit。
was still present, but He showed up in our times together. So if you, some of us in this room,。
you know exactly what I'm talking about. I want to show you a photo. And every week, God's presence。
would show up. He would intimately, but yet publicly manifest Himself, bringing us to our。
knees. And it was a scary time because the love of God was so tangible, was so evident. And actually,。
I was scared to come to church on Sundays because I just was still recovering from what God had。
shown me the week before. But there was such a reverence in the air, but not just in the air,。
in our lives. There was an overflow where after meeting, after worshiping, and these photos,。
they're not great photos, but they're not, this is pre-iPhone. We had digital cameras, and therefore。
it was shaky. But these photos represent for me a desperation, a hunger, a thirst that said, "Lord,。
if you don't show up, I can't even imagine a life where you don't show up and meet us today."。
And so I would say that God's presence changed us. And a lot of us here in this room are here。
because God done something in us in that time, and that still carries forward within us.。
Fast forward to recent years, fast forward actually to a few months ago. This was a photo。
that I took from the stage here of our prayer meeting together, and it was a beautiful time.。
And it is right now, we are in the midst of this time where I realized that if we want a maturing。
faith, then we have to find a balance between our own personal walk with God, our prayer time,。
our reflection time, our wrestling with what God is doing in our life. But equally, the older I get,。
the more we meet, I realize how much I need you guys so that we can worship and wrestle and pray。
and seek God together and to witness what the Spirit is doing amongst us, even just right now.。
And even if you are online watching, you felt that. I know God is speaking to each of us in。
such different ways, and that is what I live for. That is, I pray, what you would also desire every。
time you come before God, but also when we meet. And so I comprehend now that the spiritual reality。
that we live as Christians, it's this simple maybe, that the Spirit of God, He works in both。
a personal setting, but also our communal setting. And sometimes we forget that, and they are not。
mutually exclusive. So our discipleship with Christ is enriched, it's mature in so as much as。
we can accept and invest into both realities, that we take our faith seriously, but we also take the。
times that we have with God faithfully, meaning that it is possible that we experience God every。
single day of the week and not just here. So that's quite ideal, but that's also our lived reality.。
But usually, what gets in the way, church? What gets in the way? Someone at the last service said。
life, and that is so true, but what actually gets in the way is us most of the time. As Christians,。
we have this very human tendency to emphasize one at the expense of the other. Now, let me know if。
this rings true for you. What happens is that sometimes, because we have such a passion for。
what God does in our life personally, that it is easy sometimes to come here to service, not being。
too bothered about what God's going to do. And so kind of we check out or we think about what's。
coming up next. But equally, there are times where we focus so much on what is happening here.。
We live for this day. It's like, "Oh my gosh, Sunday, I'm going to come. The Holy Spirit's。
going to wreck us and work in us." But then the danger sometimes is we forget that God is still。
moving. What we just sang, even if we forget it, even if we don't feel it, God's love is as steady。
as the rising sun. And so I wonder, why do we expect the Spirit to come in one of these。
situations and not always both? Why do some of us only experience God here, or why do some of us。
only really feel like we meet God at home in the solitude of our closet, our room? And that's why。
I want us to think about today. I get the sense that even though there's a discrepancy, even though,。
yeah, nothing's perfect, but what I want to bring up before us today is, could it be that our。
expectations, our understanding, our preferences for the Holy Spirit can limit and get in the way。
of what He wants to do in our life, but also when we gather together? And so I want to ask you,。
when you open up God's Word, whether it's here or whether it's at home, do you carry the same。
expectation and anticipation as you do right now on a Sunday, that God will show up and He will。
satisfy you? Likewise, I want to ask you, when you gather in like this right now on a Sunday together,。
do you believe that God will personally speak directly to you as He does in your one-on-one。
times with Him? So the central question that I think a lot of us ask is, why can't I sense God。
in both places? And so I want you to ask, as we trek, as I preach today, as I share God's Word,。
I want us to think about, is it possible for us to experience God both in our private life。
and also our communal life? We're going to explore this tension and question through。
1 Peter chapter 4, and what I would like to offer is I want to highlight three habits that we have。
as Christians, as a church, that limit and stifle and hinders, that prevents the Holy Spirit from。
working in our life, whether it's personal or communal. And so everything I have to do,。
everything I have to say, has to do with how you and I relate to the Holy Spirit.。
You trekking with me, you guys okay? So I'm going to read 1 Peter chapter 4, verse 7 to 11. I'm。
reading from the NRSV. "The end of all things is near. Therefore, be serious and discipline。
yourselves for the sake of your prayers. Above all, maintain constant love for one another,。
for love covers a multitude of sins. Be hospitable to one other without complaining. Like good。
stewards of the manifold grace of God, serve one another with whatever gift each of you has。
received. Whoever speaks must do so as one speaking the very words of God. Whoever serves。
must likewise do so with the strength that God supplies so that God may be glorified in all。
things through Jesus Christ. To Him belong the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen."。
Now at first glance, this might seem like it has nothing to do with what we're talking about,。
but just as we unpack, I know God's going to reveal. And you know, today I just want you to。
take away one thing. I'm going to share three things, but I just want you to take away one。
thing. And so here, Peter is painting a broad picture of life in the early church. Peter was。
encouraging the church to remain faithful and steadfast, to keep on loving each other consistently。
and constantly, to keep prayerful and vigilant because even though there's persecution, even。
though we do not know when Jesus is coming back, Peter is saying, "Do not stop meeting like this。
because we need it." There is an urgency. We don't know what's going to happen, but what we have now。
is what we need. And so we're going to pick up from verse 9 where he says, "Be hospitable to。
one another without complaining." Peter here is suggesting that one of the many ways we as。
Christians can express love to one another without complaining is to be hospitable.。
For Peter and the early church, hospitality was a tremendous privilege. That means it was a。
privilege to express welcome, to offer food, to offer shelter for anyone coming through. For you。
can be a Christian, you can be a stranger. And back then, people offered hospitality to even enemies,。
praying that through this meal, after this meal, the Holy Spirit would work within us and we would。
leave differently. And so for the early church, in ancient church culture, there was a cultural。
expectation and an obligation to offer hospitality. So scriptures like Acts 14, Hebrews 13,。
says that some, while hosting, while entertaining, have entertained angels without knowing it,。
meaning that they were blessed in the presence of whoever came through. In Matthew 25, Jesus says,。
"By extending your welcome, by extending yourself as an embrace to the stranger, to the believer,。
to the least of these," as in to those who need it, "it's as though you are loving and hosting。
and welcoming the Lord Jesus himself." I take that seriously. I don't know if you've paused to think。
about that, but it's mind-blowing. And so Jesus promises, actually, that no matter how small or。
slight the kindness that you show the stranger, it will not go unrewarded. So I want to link this。
back and tie this back to what we're talking about. Is it possible to experience the Spirit both in。
our life as well as our church life? Now, hospitality is essential. It's a privilege. It's an obligation.。
And it shows our love. And honestly, the truth is, it's difficult. Why? Because it's inconvenient。
and it takes a lot of effort. Can I actually... This is not scripted, but this is what happened。
last night. A friend that we haven't seen in a year and a half just decided to surprise us。
at our house. He brought a gift, and we had no plans of entertaining last night. But you know what?。
Being hospitable is inconvenient. It takes a lot of effort. But you know what? At the end of the night,。
we were so blessed. I hope our friend was blessed. I don't know. I'll ask him later, right?。
But the point is, what if the person we are hosting is the Lord Himself? Would we not make。
that effort? Would all the inconvenience in the world be okay and worth it? The truth is, the Holy。
Spirit, He doesn't always come announced. I mean, we would like it to be like that, but that's not。
the case. He shows up unexpectedly, but He also shows up when we are aware, when we acknowledge。
that we are with Him. So if, church, you and I want to host the Spirit, we want to experience the Spirit,。
then what does it mean for us to welcome Him in our thoughts? What does it mean for us。
to show up to work, show up to school, go back home, and say, "Lord, I want You to come and visit us"?。
And so, can I propose a very simple way of living, that every time you open up God's Word when you're。
by yourself, every time you come here, I know sometimes some of you rush to get here, but even so,。
when you wake up, you can say this simple prayer. You can say, "Holy Spirit, You are welcome in this place.。
As we gather, Lord, please join us. Come and dwell with us. We want to serve You. We want to worship。
You. We want to hear everything You have to say to us concerning us about this life, about death,。
about everything. Can we sit down? And if it's okay, Lord, please don't leave yet. Please just stay。
with us." Church, what if this was our collective way of life? What if this habit of welcoming。
and saying that, "You know what, Lord? It's okay that I'm going to be inconvenienced for the rest。
of this week. It's okay that I'm going to push back all my scheduling, but if I can host You,。
if I can welcome You and You stay with me, then I think that's worthwhile. That's how I want to live."。
So, church, we're going to continue to verse 10 and 11. Peter says, "Like good stewards of the。
manifold grace of God, serve one another with whatever gift each of you have received." I will。
come back and talk about gifts. "Whoever speaks must do so as one speaking the very words of God.。
Whoever serves must do so with the strength that God supplies so that God may be glorified in all。
things through Jesus Christ." Peter reminds the church here, saying that, "For everyone who has。
come to know the Lord, for everyone who has received the undeserved mercy and graces of God,。
I want you to be diligent and faithful in figuring out what your gift is, and I want you to serve the。
body of Christ because time is short." Jesus is coming back, and He says, "Whatever gift you have,。
use it as God gives you the strength, as God gives you the time and space to lavish and build up the。
church." And Peter calls us to be good stewards because, basically, these gifts are not ours to。
keep. They are given to us so that we could use it lavishly, generously on other people so that。
His church may be healthy and flourishing. And so, what I want to just pull back here and just。
talk about gifts, and I want to take us to 1 Corinthians 12, verse 4-7. The apostle Paul。
teaches that the Holy Spirit gives spiritual gifts to every believer so that every believer。
has a part and a place within the body of Christ so that the church may continue to be healthy.。
And it is our responsibility to figure what that gift is, what the spiritual gift is so that we。
may give. And so, I'm going to quickly go through some of these gifts that the Spirit gives us. I'm。
going to pull from Romans and Corinthians and Thessalonians. And so, the Spirit gives us the。
ability to teach, to minister, as in to serve, to evangelize, to share the good news, to pastor, to。
provide leadership like our elders and deacons do, to encourage one another, to prophesy. Something。
we talked about last week is not predicting the future, but to call out the spiritual realities。
in which we live in, to admonish. Some of us have this gift of being so patient that you can correct。
me when I am in the wrong. You have that grace about you. That is to correct and admonish,。
to express hospitality, to have mercy, to be generous. And so, church, if we desire, if you。
and I desire this morning to host the Spirit of God in our private life, as well as here every。
single day, every single week, then I ask you to take this spiritual reality, what Paul and Peter。
is talking about, seriously, as in you have a gift, but will you use it? You know, every year,。
unfortunately, we talk, and you tell me how burnt out you are, and I completely understand,。
because sometimes we feel that, "Why am I doing everything, and everyone else, they just come?"。
You know, and likewise, I think it does not fall on Pastor Andrew or the leaders or our small group。
leaders or our volunteers to make sure that the church is flourishing. All of us have a role,。
and I want you to really be diligent in thinking about this. So, how does this look like? Well,。
personally, let me tell you, it's really simple. Go home, look up every gift that is in the New。
Testament or Old Testament, and say, "Lord, what have you given me?" And ask Him for the opportunity。
to start serving, start using it for the sake of building up the church, for the sake of sharing。
with each other and others who do not know Jesus Christ, the mercies of God. So, communally,。
I would encourage the same thing. I would ask you to figure out what your gift is and just。
serve. When you go to work, when you go to school, when you go home, when you come here,。
when you join your CG, offer to address the needs and meet the needs of others. We can take someone。
out for coffee. We can pray for them afterwards. We can teach others how to love God. But, you know,。
my boys, they taught me how to resist temptation. We talked about all the practical needs that we。
would encounter in life. We can show hospitality to those who can never pay us back. We can be。
a listening ear. We can write a letter of encouragement to someone in prison or someone。
suffering or someone grieving. We can sit with them. And also, we can just extend the mercy that。
we've received from God and forgive someone who we don't want to forgive.。
And so, I want to just highlight one more thing that Peter is talking about here.。
Peter wants the church and us to know that our Christian faith is not meant to be a depository。
of everything God has given us. Rather, Peter envisions the church to be channels in which。
God's grace and everything God has given us that we would be channels and it would flow outwards to。
those who need it, to those who need to experience the love of God. And so, I want to say that we are。
not meant to be depositories or terminals of God's grace, but we are to be channels of Him and。
everything He wants to do. And we can be channels when we use our gifts, when we come together and。
acknowledge that I have a part to play here, that I can make the Vine Church even healthier or in a。
place where we can receive from God even more if I do this, if I can offer this. And so, church,。
if we come to church and we come to our gatherings focused solely on what we can receive, what we can。
get of it, and I think there are seasons where that is how, that's okay. But if it becomes a habitual。
way of life and way of thinking, then definitely we will limit, you and I will limit the work of God。
in our midst. We will limit what God can say to us because we're just so focused on ourselves。
and not the others. Last week was a beautiful example of what happened. And actually, Andrew。
asked the staff a week in advance to pray what words and pictures that God might be giving us。
for you, for the church, throughout all three services. And as a response, a lot of us just came。
and just in faith shared. But what happened next was what the Spirit, really what we're talking。
about. You receive the Word of God, you responded, and as an overflow, all of us started praying for。
each other. And so, this is a beautiful example of how God can use each of us to minister, and we。
leave blessed, we leave different, we leave changed. So, when you and I forget that we are members。
of one another, we neglect the role that we have a gift to give, then we will limit the work of God.。
So, up till now, I think I'm doing okay in time. But I do have one more thing I want to share with。
us. I want to share a habit that we sometimes, a lot of times, practice without knowing that。
individually we can limit and stifle the work of the Spirit in our own lives. I want to take us to。
1 Thessalonians 5, verse 19. And this here, Paul says, "Do not quench the Holy Spirit."。
I've always been apprehensive and intimidated by this verse, and I've never bothered to actually。
look into it. But this week, I did because I think it has a contextual relevance for what。
we're talking about here. Paul was addressing the church to be mindful of our own hearts and our own。
selves, that it is very easy for us not just to limit or to stifle the Spirit's work in our lives,。
but actually, if the Holy Spirit is a person with personality, that He can be blessed,。
He has a character, He can be loved, then equally, like any of us, the Holy Spirit can also be。
grieved. He can be upset. And so, I want to, in a lighthearted manual, but an honest sharing with。
you, I want to just go over what quenches the Spirit, what actually grieves the Spirit. And I。
want to just disclaimer and say that this, I'm talking about all of us, that this is not, I'm。
not pointing fingers at anyone, I'm actually, this is how we can grieve the Spirit. Our sins,。
the way we selfishly live for ourselves, the fact that a lot of times we ignore,。
like blatantly ignore, and we forget that God is here with us, that the Holy Spirit is with us.。
Our lack of expectations in life sometimes, that we say, "You know what? I'm just going to coast。
through life because in a way we've given up." I think this, as a father myself, I would be sad。
if my sons and daughters gave me that attitude. Our idolatry, our preference, our chasing after。
influence and reputation and power and a career over the fact that the Holy Spirit desires to。
spend time with us. Sometimes when we kind of exercise our man-made rules over people,。
when Jesus has taught us simply how to love each other, how to respect each other, how to forgive.。
And for all of us, our words grieve the Spirit, especially when we talk behind someone's back,。
when we gossip. And because a lot of times we don't want to deal with each other, so we just。
kind of give people the cold shoulders. We use our words hurtfully, and we express an unsympathetic。
criticism attitude, this spirit of criticism, which will kill anything. And that, I think,。
does grieve the Spirit. So church, I just want to name these few because I think when we knowingly。
practice this, or we are made aware but we do not repent, then we naturally will stifle,。
and we deceive ourselves from thinking that the Spirit is working within us when He cannot. There。
is no room. It's not that He doesn't want to, but it's just we're not letting Him because we would。
rather stay in this space. And so with that note, church, I want to bring us back to this question。
that we've been asking ourselves. Can you and I experience the Spirit in both our private life。
and our communal life? And the answer is yes. Yes, we can. It is very possible to experience both。
because, well, because it is possible. But I want to say that it is only possible if we are willing。
to grow in our awareness, to grow in our relational awareness to how we are currently interacting with。
the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit through Mondays all the way through Sundays. That if you。
and I are able to cultivate and keep a hunger and thirst for the Spirit of God and what He wants to。
do, then yes, definitely, I think we can encounter God every day, all the time, in every season.。
However, church, if we ignore everything I've said, it's not about me, but if we ignore God's。
Word today and what He's saying to us as a church, then God will seem to be only in one place at a。
time and not both. You get me? So I want to summarize and ask you these questions. I want。
you to take away the three habits that we have that sometimes we limit the work of the Spirit。
in our life. And I want to just ask you these things again. Maybe you want to write this down.。
You can just screen capture this. But I want to ask going forward, will you host and welcome the。
Spirit of God in your life? Whether you're reading the Word yourself, whether you're coming here,。
whether you're going somewhere with human beings, will you say, "Lord, I want to welcome you. Would。
you come with me? Would you come with us?" Second question I want to ask us is, will you commit to。
being channels of God's grace and His work and His mercy in your life rather than be terminals,。
than to be destinations? And I want to ask you, will you quench the Spirit? I mean, actually,。
I worded that wrong because we will grieve the Spirit, but what will we do about that?。
So church, I want you just to stand with me. I want to pray for us before we go.。
I want to pray for you online. I want to pray for you if you're outside in the overflow.。
And I'm just going to list out some habits, and if that is you, I want you maybe just,。
if you can just focus, maybe you can just maybe close your eyes, maybe you can just ignore。
the person beside you. I want you just to maybe open your hands if this is you.。
If you desire to see the Spirit's work more in your personal life and your congregational life,。
if you want to grow in this awareness of the fact that reality that the Holy Spirit is with us。
everywhere we go, and He is constantly wanting to spend time and speak to us, if that is you,。
if you want to be more aware, then I want you just to open up your hands。
while no one is looking. It's between you and the Lord.。
And I think for some of us, if you are really scared of being inconvenienced,。
you are scared of putting in the extra effort, you are scared of failing. What if I do this。
wrong? What if I don't get it? I'm not mature enough. I'm not spiritually experienced enough。
to host, to serve, to give. If that is you, I just want you to open up your hands.。
If in our time today you realize that you may have grieved the Spirit in your life,。
in your thought life, in how you treated others, I don't want you to condemn yourself right now,。
but I want you to remind you that the Holy Spirit does not condemn you. He is gentle,。
He is steadfast and faithful to show this to you so that you may no longer limit,。
but rather you can empower and say, "Lord, would you come?"。
And so if this is you right now, you know that you've grieved the Spirit,。
then would you pray with me? If you want to be more aware, would you pray with me? If you want to,。
starting now, to host and welcome the Spirit wherever you go, then would you pray with me?。
We're going to pray Psalm 139 together, as David said.。
So Lord, would you search our hearts right now, oh God, because you know our hearts.。
Would you show us if there are any thoughts or ways or habits that limit and stifle your work,。
your good and loving work in our life, then would you turn us away from that?。
Would you help us, empower us to do something different so that we do not limit your work,。
but we rather enable and welcome you to continue to stay with us and work with us?。
And would you lead us towards you, Father?。
And so Lord, we ask that as we go from here, as a response, Lord God,。
would we be channels of your mercy and your grace?。
Father, we desperately yearn to experience you both in our faith,。
just as we can experience you together, Father, that there'll be no difference。
because you are through and through here with us and for us.。
You work and minister through us.。
So Father, we surrender ourselves and we want to now just give ourselves to you.。
So church, as we respond, as we worship, before you leave here,。
say, Lord, I want to be a channel.。
I want to welcome you. I want to host you.。
That is my prayer for the rest of this life.。
And so Father, we thank you for hearing us.。
Thank you for your word.。
Would you be glorified in our midst as we be channels of your love and grace in this world,。
in this city, in this time, Jesus, in your name we pray.。
Amen.。
