Lord, we thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everybody says, amen.。
Can we thank our team?。
Wonderful.。
Have a seat, have a seat.。
Say hi to somebody, say hi to someone.。
Hi to everybody in the overflow.。
It's great to have you with us as well.。
Welcome to us.。
And so good to see you.。
Anybody online, it's great to have you two with us.。
We are so glad you're here.。
How's everybody doing?。
You're right?。
We are in week two of our Exodus series here at the Vine,。
and we're studying the book over Exodus over the next。
six months or so.。
And this week, we actually get into the text itself.。
This week, we find ourselves right at the beginning。
of Exodus chapter one.。
And this week, we're also unveiling for you。
a couple of tools that we've created in this series。
so that you can really dive deep into Exodus.。
You see, for us, our heart is is that Exodus。
is not just a sermon series that you come to.。
Exodus is a book that you study yourself。
over these next six weeks, next six months.。
And we want you to find yourself opening the pages。
of scripture during the week.。
We want you to be thinking and reflecting。
about the things that we speak about on Sunday.。
But more than that, we want you in the text itself.。
And I feel like if all you do in the series。
is come on Sunday and listen to me or other preachers。
unpack a text, that's one thing.。
But if you're then diving into the scriptures yourself,。
if you're then asking God for Exodus yourself,。
if you're opening the word during the week。
and saying, God, I need this, this is a reality of my life,。
I can tell that I've got some slavery that I'm a sin to,。
that I'm broken and holding back from,。
and Lord, I want freedom myself, and I'm opening the pages,。
and I'm grateful that I get what I get on Sundays,。
but that's not enough for me.。
I want the scriptures to come alive for me.。
- Yeah.。
(laughing)。
- Oh, we got some ways to go.。
That's good.。
So we've created a couple of tools to help you。
to get into the word.。
First of all, I want you to know this series is structured,。
I told you last week is 24 weeks.。
We're gonna structure it in two segments of 12 weeks each.。
So between now and the end of June is part one.。
Part two will begin at the end of August,。
and we'll go all the way to the middle of November.。
There'll be a break for the summer。
for about six weeks or so in July and most of August.。
But we're breaking it up in two big blocks.。
Now, one thing that I also said last week。
is that the whole book of Exodus。
is structured around five movements.。
That's the way it's written.。
It's written in these five movements.。
It's also the way that we believe that all Exodus。
from any slavery into freedom happens in our lives。
through these five movements.。
God uses them today,。
just like he did for the Israelites back then.。
And those five movements, as we talked about last week,。
are slavery, promise, liberation, identity, and home.。
And so we've structured this whole sermon series。
around those five movements.。
So we want you to be able to track every single week,。
where are we in the book of Exodus?。
Like what passage are we in?。
We also want you to be able to track with these five things。
to help you to know how we're progressing。
through that journey.。
So in order to do that, we've created a tool.。
We've actually made a bookmark for you。
that you can either put in your physical Bible,。
or you can put in another book,。
or you can stick it on your fridge.。
The bookmark looks like this.。
That's the front and the back of it.。
And what you'll see, every single week,。
it has the date of that Sunday.。
It has the topic that we're speaking about,。
but most importantly, it's got the passage of scripture。
we're preaching from or looking at as a church。
on that Sunday, so that in preparation, you can pray,。
you can read that passage for yourself.。
You can come on a Sunday already soaking in the word of God.。
And what you'll notice here is we've got the five movements,。
slavery, promise, liberation, identity, and home.。
So again, you're able to track through the whole series.。
So if you miss a couple of weeks。
and you're coming back to the vine,。
maybe you're away for business or whatever, or holiday,。
you come back, you might be like,。
"Where are we in the story?"。
Well, you've got this.。
It'll tell you exactly where you are.。
It'll tell you what passage we're in,。
and it will tell you which movement we're a part of.。
Is that helpful?。
You will get that next week.。
Yeah, babies.。
You gotta come back for that piece.。
You gotta come back for that one.。
We're gonna hand that one out to you guys this week.。
But we do actually have something。
for you to take home this week,。
and I'm really excited about this.。
Again, our heart in this series。
is not just that you hear something on a Sunday,。
but you'll begin to study Scripture yourself.。
And so one of the ways that we've done that,。
our creative team have done an amazing job.。
We have created a coffee table book for you on Exodus,。
and particularly Exodus part one,。
between now and the end of June.。
What this is is a beautiful book。
filled with incredible images and resource.。
Some of the stuff that we took ourselves。
as part of the filming, others that we have licensed.。
But what's most important in this。
is that every chapter is a devotion that we've written。
that connects to a specific passage。
that we're preaching that week.。
So the whole point of this。
is that we want you to come on Sunday,。
hear what's said on Sunday,。
but then we want you to go away。
and read a deeper reflection。
on what we spoke about on Sunday in your own time.。
These are written in a way。
that you can't do this in five minutes.。
This is not a brush your teeth devotion.。
This is a 15 to 20 minute,。
read it, pray about it, soak in it,。
which is why we've made it a book.。
It's something that you can keep at home,。
put in your living room, put by your bed,。
whatever you wanna do, and utilize it that way.。
These devotions have been written。
by one of our congregation members.。
His name is Chris Webster.。
He comes to our 2 p.m. service.。
He is a phenomenal writer, theologian, and thinker.。
And his reflections, he wrote,。
I actually reached out to him four years ago.。
I'm like, "We're gonna do this crazy thing。
"called the Exodus project.。
"We're gonna do this whole thing.。
"We're gonna make films.。
"I'd love you to write a devotion。
"for every single week of the series."。
And so he went away.。
He was very grateful that we delayed, by the way,。
so he could keep writing.。
And he went away and he wrote all the devotions,。
and he wrote them without knowing。
what I was gonna say on a Sunday.。
So it sits completely separate to what I'm gonna teach you,。
which is why it's a beautiful compliment for you.。
And here's the amazing thing.。
You get to take one of these home today, okay?。
We have one of these for every single person here,。
and it's completely free.。
Yes, completely free for you.。
You know, one of the things that we realize。
here at The Vine,。
we're a broad socioeconomic demographic here,。
and we don't want anyone to miss out on this resource。
if you can't afford it.。
So we decided to give it away for free.。
There is a catch, though, two catches.。
Number one, we only have enough。
for physically everybody across our three services.。
So what I do not wanna see after the service。
is you walking away with 20 copies like this,。
'cause you wanna give it to your friends and family。
who don't come to The Vine, okay?。
This is for us here at The Vine.。
We got enough copies for every single one of you。
to take a copy, but please do not take more。
than just your own personal copy this week.。
If we have any left over at the end of this week,。
we will make them available next week,。
and you can take as many as you want next week, okay?。
But for a starting point, just one today, is that okay?。
Here's the second little catch.。
Although I say it's free, and it is,。
if you would like to make a donation towards its cost,。
we would be very helpful,。
and that would be very good for us.。
So we're suggesting $100 donation for this。
if you would like to.。
You don't have to, again, hear my words.。
Please take it home for free, okay?。
But if you are able to, and you'd like to give 100,。
or maybe more than that,。
to help with the cover of the printing of it,。
we would love for you to do that.。
You're gonna get this.。
It's gonna be on the second floor after the service。
in the upper house.。
Hey, everybody in the upper house, you get a copy as well.。
Just come down the stairs after the service,。
and you can grab it from the lobby here.。
You don't need to rush.。
There's enough available for everybody.。
Is that awesome?。
- Yes. - All right, all right.。
So, now, there's another reason。
why we've made you this amazing resource。
that we wanted to generously give to you today,。
because it actually connects。
to what the starting point of Exodus,。
the book of Exodus, is all about,。
because the cultural and contextual backdrop。
to the first verses in Exodus。
is the idea of abundant blessings。
that have been handed and given out.。
The book of Exodus begins right off the back。
of the narrative from the book of Genesis.。
There's no break.。
They flow from one to the next.。
And what we see right at the end of Genesis。
is something that has happened to Joseph,。
Joseph, the 11th son of Jacob,。
Jacob, who's the grandson of Abraham.。
And we see right at the end of Genesis。
that Joseph is sold into slavery by his own brothers,。
and he is trafficked to Egypt.。
And although his circumstance is a terrible beginning,。
God's favor and honor is on Joseph.。
And whilst Joseph is there, Pharaoh has a dream.。
And Pharaoh's dream is very disturbing to him.。
And he asked for his own court,。
magicians and astrologers to interpret the dream.。
No one can interpret the dream.。
And somebody says, "There's a Hebrew in our land。
who has been able to interpret other dreams。
for other people.。
He might be able to interpret for you."。
So Pharaoh calls Joseph to him,。
and Joseph interprets the dream through the power of God.。
And in the dream, Joseph sees。
that what God is saying to Pharaoh。
is that there is a time coming of abundance。
and a time coming of famine.。
And Joseph basically says to Pharaoh,。
"Hey, we need to start storing up food now。
in the time of abundance,。
because the time of famine is coming.。
And if we don't have those resources available,。
then we're gonna really suffer in famine."。
Well, Pharaoh agrees, believes in Joseph.。
In fact, he actually empowers him。
to become the number two person in power over all of Egypt,。
in particular, over the land of Egypt.。
And so Joseph goes and he builds storehouses.。
He begins to take the grain.。
He stores it there.。
And when the famine years come,。
the nations around Egypt are really suffering.。
Famine hits hard, and it hits the people of Egypt hard too.。
But because of Joseph's insight, his wisdom,。
and his hard work,。
there is the abundance available for Egypt.。
Now, at this time, Joseph then goes to Pharaoh.。
And he says, "Look, my family,"。
talking about his father, Jacob, and his remaining family.。
At that time, there was about 70 people in Jacob's family.。
Joseph goes to Pharaoh and says,。
"Can I bring Jacob to Egypt?。
Can I bring him here as a refuge?"。
'Cause this land has an abundance right now.。
And basically, Pharaoh,。
because of all the incredible things。
that Joseph had done for him, Pharaoh agrees.。
And at that point,。
Jacob and his family are able to travel to Egypt.。
Now, I'm gonna show you a map.。
This is a modern map of Egypt.。
We're gonna use this map a lot throughout our series.。
It is a modern map rather than one in the ancient times,。
but that's because it connects。
to a lot of what we're gonna be teaching for us.。
This area up here roughly was Canaan。
at the time of the beginning of the book of Exodus.。
The modern day Israel wasn't yet boundaried like this.。
They lived in this area up here.。
And so it was from there that Jacob。
and his 70 people would travel.。
Now, this is Cairo, the modern day city of Cairo.。
This is the Sinai Peninsula。
where a lot of the Exodus narrative takes place.。
This is Mount Sinai right about down in here.。
Now, very importantly, when Jacob and his family comes,。
right around about here is a land called Goshen.。
In fact, we've got another map here。
that makes that clear to you.。
This area right here became known in the Bible as Goshen.。
And Goshen was the area that Pharaoh gave to the Israelites。
to be able to settle in.。
And this is where Jacob came.。
This is where Joseph would have spent time as well.。
And this is where the Israelites。
were able to take refuge during famine.。
They were able to receive the food。
that had been prepared for them.。
And this is the starting point of Exodus chapter one.。
We're now gonna start our journey.。
Are you excited?。
All right, here we go.。
Exodus one, verse one.。
These are the names of the sons of Israel。
who went to Egypt with Jacob, each with his family.。
Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah,。
Iscah, Zebulun, and Benjamin,。
Dan, Naphtali, Gad, and Esher.。
The descendants of Jacob numbered 70 in all,。
and Joseph was already in Egypt.。
Now Joseph and all his brothers。
and all the generations died.。
But the Israelites were fruitful and multiplied greatly。
and became exceedingly numerous。
so that the land was filled with them.。
Now I said last week that one of the things。
the author of Exodus, Moses,。
who also authored Genesis, the same person,。
he's writing the book of Exodus using language and imagery。
that connects to the Genesis creation event。
of Genesis one, two, and three.。
And right here at the start of the book of Exodus,。
we see a great example of this.。
I wanna read to you verse seven once again.。
It says, "But the Israelites were fruitful。
"and multiplied greatly and became exceedingly numerous。
"so that the land was filled with them."。
The words that Moses is choosing here are very specific。
'cause he's linking what the starting point is for Israel。
at the beginning of Exodus to the call that humanity had。
in Genesis chapter one and the call and the blessing。
that God gave humanity.。
Let me show you Genesis 1, 28, which also Moses wrote.。
"God blessed them and said to them,。
"be fruitful and increase in number,。
"fill the earth and subdue it,。
"rule over the fish of the sea, the birds of the air,。
"over every living creature that moves on the ground."。
So exactly what Moses is doing here。
is he's saying at the beginning of the Exodus narrative,。
there is this connection to the beginning。
of God's call on humanity where God said,。
"I'm gonna bless you.。
"I'm gonna bless humanity, male, female,。
"I've created you, you're made in my image。
"and you're gonna be a blessing.。
"And here's the blessing,。
"you're gonna be able to multiply,。
"you're gonna be prosperous,。
"you're gonna be able to fill the earth."。
And so when Moses starts Exodus, he says,。
"You need to know that my people are in a blessing.。
"You need to know where they are.。
"They're in this place where they're receiving。
"a great blessing from Egypt.。
"This place is abundant blessing to us.。
"And in that, we're living out the call of humanity。
"right in this land."。
Now we know what happens next in the story.。
We know that slavery comes.。
But it's really interesting that Moses,。
before he tells us about that,。
he starts with the Genesis 1 and 2 picture.。
In other words, it's like, almost like Moses is saying,。
"Our time in Egypt for 380 years before slavery happened。
"was like our garden of Eden.。
"It was an abundant place.。
"We had favor there.。
"Pharaoh liked us.。
"There was a beautiful environment."。
Now, yes, that turns into Genesis 3.。
That turns into the slavery that's to come.。
But the starting point is good.。
And some of you resonate with this in this room.。
The journey that there is。
between sometimes something starting well。
and ending up really bad.。
Some of you in here, it's like a relationship.。
It started so well, but it's turned bitter,。
and it's painful now.。
For some of you here, it's like a job.。
The job started great.。
You loved it at the start.。
It was a great blessing to you.。
But now you've become bitter, and it's annoying,。
and you hate it, and you wanna do something else.。
It's interesting how fickle the human experience is.。
And Moses wants to pick up on that right at the start。
and say, "Know that there was blessing.。
"Know that there was favor.。
"But it's so easy for that favor to change in a heartbeat."。
Now, at this point, all we have is Moses' word。
that this happened to Israel and happened to Egypt.。
But what actual evidence is there?。
I mean, before we look at anything else in the Exodus story,。
surely we have to start by saying,。
"This is actual historical truth.。
"We need to know that this is not just。
"some fairy tale myth, but it actually sits。
"in some actual historical truth."。
We're not gonna just take Moses' word for it.。
What is there in Egypt itself today。
that helps us to understand that this is the reality。
for God's people, that this actually took place?。
Well, here's an amazing thing.。
When I started researching this whole project for Exodus,。
and I was researching about the evidence that exists,。
I discovered a really interesting thing.。
There's hardly any evidence in Egypt。
that Israel even lived there,。
let alone that the Exodus happened.。
There's very, very, very little evidence at all.。
And that should concern us.。
Because what is this thing then?。
Is this book just some story that's been made up?。
Or does it root itself in actual archeological evidence。
and actual historical events?。
Well, to answer that question,。
let me take you now back to Egypt.。
(dramatic music)。
The first thing you need to know about the Exodus。
is that it's more than just an event.。
In fact, it's perhaps the most significant demonstration。
that we have in all of our scriptures。
of God's dealing on a daily basis with humanity,。
of his power and control over nations,。
and of course, his ability to literally change。
the course of history.。
But the Exodus is more than just old history.。
It's also alive still today.。
I mean, it's celebrated regularly by Jews。
at the Passover every year, and by Christians at Easter.。
But perhaps more than that,。
the Exodus has become a metaphor for revolution,。
for those of oppression。
to the social injustices of the world.。
I mean, from Mahatma Gandhi, from Martin Luther King Jr.,。
from Bob Marley, all of them have evoked。
the imagery of the Exodus,。
and have spoken about Moses' cry, "To let my people go."。
All of which is fascinating。
when you consider one sobering fact.。
There's actually very little archeological evidence。
that Israel was ever in Egypt,。
let alone that the Exodus actually happened.。
I mean, could it be that the Exodus is some fairy tale myth。
invented by religious leaders to teach us a moral。
about good versus evil, oppression versus freedom?。
I mean, could it be that we've been believing a lie,。
albeit a very inspiring and motivating one?。
Well, to begin to answer that question,。
I've come here to Beni Hassan,。
a small village just south of modern-day Minya。
in Middle Egypt, to a series of remote tombs。
that are cut into the hillside。
to uncover perhaps the only physical proof。
there is in this whole country of Semitic people。
arriving in the land of Egypt itself.。
This is a breathtaking place to bury your dead.。
The people buried here are actually。
from the elite class of nomachs.。
They were provisional governors here。
in the Middle Kingdom period,。
about 4,500 years ago.。
Now, there are 39 tombs here in Beni Hassan,。
and each one of them has an outer court,。
an inner pillared room, and then a shaft。
that leads down to the burial chambers.。
But we haven't come all this way。
for me to show you things that are dead and buried.。
Today, we've come here so I can show you something。
that is still very much alive.。
These tombs are covered from floor to ceiling。
in vibrant, beautiful, living art.。
The paintings here depict everyday scenes。
of the common life of this area at the time,。
as well as stories about their history and livelihood,。
their homes, and their culture.。
Standing in the tomb here, I really get a sense。
of the sheer scale of this place,。
which is why it's a little bit boomy and echoey.。
But when you look at the beauty in the art here,。
it amazes me 'cause it tells me something。
about the culture of this people,。
that at the end of their lives, when they bury themselves,。
they want to be surrounded with story.。
They want the future generations to come here。
and not learn about how they died, but how they lived.。
They wanted to tell them about their experiences。
and help them to get to know them personally.。
I mean, this blows my mind.。
I mean, us in the West, when we die,。
we just erect a tombstone with a couple of words on it.。
But in this culture, they wanted to really communicate。
the heart of who they were to the future generations.。
And as a storyteller myself, this truly just inspires me.。
And it's actually amongst all of this storytelling。
that our Exodus journey truly begins.。
This might be a small section。
of the overall paintings in these tombs,。
but its significance to us cannot be overstated.。
What you see here are figures wearing a fashion。
that is completely different to any other people。
depicted in these tombs.。
Their upper bodies are covered,。
and their clothes are of a striped red and spotted nature.。
This was the clothing of the Semitic people of the time.。
And the scene here depicts a story of Asiatic migrants。
arriving in Egypt with the hopes of starting a new life,。
making this the only recorded history we have。
in the whole of Egypt of the arriving presence。
of a Semitic people in this land.。
From religious fairy tale myth。
to recorded historical evidence,。
these tombs tell us a story we all need to hear.。
God's people did indeed come to this land.。
But the question remains, did they actually settle?。
Well, to answer that question,。
I need to take you about 200 miles north。
to a land that the Bible calls Goshen.。
(dramatic music)。
These fields behind me here may not look like much,。
but hidden underneath them。
is some of the most significant archeological evidence。
for the existence of God's people here in Egypt.。
This area around me is known as Goshen.。
It's found actually in Genesis 47,。
as well as in Exodus chapters eight and nine.。
And Goshen is the very place where God's people lived。
for the 480 years that they were here present in Egypt.。
Now, unfortunately, much of that evidence。
is still under the ground here.。
But there is one place,。
not too far from where I'm standing right now,。
where they've been able to excavate.。
And what they found there is truly significant.。
Unfortunately, it's not a public place,。
so I wasn't able to get in there and film,。
but we were given some footage.。
And that footage reveals to us。
what it would have been like for God's people。
to live in this land.。
These pictures and artist renderings。
show what is essentially the site。
of an ancient home here in Avaris.。
In the excavation, you can clearly see various rooms,。
as well as the walls。
and the general structure of the house as a whole.。
Now, the form of the house is not in the style。
of Egyptian homes in the time of the Exodus,。
but it's actually North Syrian in its form and construct,。
the area that the patriarchs were originally from.。
This particular house has become known。
as the House of Jacob,。
and archeologists have found something fascinating。
in the garden surrounding it,。
a portico with 12 pillars.。
Is this coincidence, or is it further evidence。
of the presence of the settlement of a Jewish people。
celebrating in their architecture。
the 12 tribes of their generation?。
Either way, the home that is being discovered。
not too far from where I'm standing right now。
proves to us something beyond the shadow of a doubt.。
You see, Beni Hassan showed us。
that a Semitic people arrived in Egypt.。
The House of Jacob shows us that they settled here.。
(dramatic music)。
- It's a really important thing。
that we can base the story of Exodus。
in actual recorded history for us.。
But as I said earlier,。
sometimes the fate and the blessings of somebody。
can change in a heartbeat.。
And as is so often the case when a immigrant group。
grows to prominence and power within a nation,。
the majority group of that nation can often fear。
and respond in tragedy and evil.。
And that's exactly what we see happen here.。
Let me read on from verse eight.。
Then a new king, and by king, when it's mentioned here,。
it's always referring to a pharaoh.。
Then a new pharaoh, who did not know about Joseph,。
came to power in Egypt.。
"Look," he said to his people,。
"the Israelites have become much too numerous for us.。
"Come, we must deal shrewdly with them,。
"or they will become even more numerous.。
"And if war breaks out, we'll join our enemies。
"and fight against us and leave the country."。
The pharaoh begins to freak out,。
that this pharaoh has no connection to the Jewish people.。
He has no connection to the pharaohs of the past。
who were influenced by Joseph and his wise decision-making.。
He has no connection.。
It's been over three generations have passed。
as this person now comes into power.。
And because he's got none of that connection,。
he just sees this Israelite group。
as a massive group of people。
that he knows are not Egyptian, and he fears them.。
Now, it's really interesting,。
'cause Moses uses a specific word in verse 10。
to describe this.。
He says, "Come, we must deal," this is pharaoh speaking,。
"Come, we must deal shrewdly with them."。
That's exactly the same word that's found in Genesis three,。
when Moses writes about Satan as a snake.。
He says the snake was more shrewd or crafty。
than any of the other animals.。
Remember, this is still Moses writing.。
He takes that same word that he applies to Satan,。
and he puts it right on pharaoh straight away.。
And basically what he's saying here is pharaoh。
is in this narrative going to be like for us the snake.。
He's going to be the one。
who is gonna have influence over us,。
and he's the one that's gonna make decisions。
that are of the enemy, not of God.。
And Moses wants us to understand the satanic influence,。
the evil that sits behind all the things。
that pharaoh does next.。
Let me read it to you from verse 11.。
So they put slave masses over them。
to oppress them with forced labor.。
They built Pithom and Ramesses as store cities for pharaoh.。
But the more that they were oppressed,。
the more they multiplied and spread.。
So the Egyptians came to dread the Israelites。
and worked them ruthlessly.。
They made their lives bitter with hard labor。
in brick and mortar, and with all kinds of work in the fields。
and in all their hard labor,。
the Egyptians used them ruthlessly.。
There's this power that comes from Egypt on Israel.。
They're thrown into slavery,。
and that slavery is painful, it's hard,。
and it's in the totality of who they are.。
Now, I want you to see something really important here.。
What Moses is trying to communicate to us as we read this。
is a simple starting point of slavery.。
He's trying to help us to understand。
that there is a key starting point。
that happens so often in slavery,。
and that's the starting point of insecurity.。
You see, Pharaoh here acts insecurely before his people.。
He looks at this migrant group who've grown to a big size,。
and they've never done anything to make Pharaoh。
think that they're gonna rebel against him,。
but he's so afraid of that,。
and in his own insecurities of losing control。
and losing his own power,。
he decides to suppress them。
in order to make sure that he would increase.。
And what you need to know is that insecurity。
is so often the primary brokenness。
that actually enslaves and oppresses other people.。
Say that again.。
Insecurity is primarily, often,。
so often the primary brokenness。
that is the driving factor。
that would enable people to be enslaved and oppressed.。
That's what insecurity does.。
And Moses is trying to get us to know this。
because actually throughout the whole Exodus journey,。
you're gonna see time and time again。
the issue of insecurity rising up。
and then the issue of needing to deal with it before God.。
This is why one of the movements。
of the five movements of Exodus is all about identity,。
because when our identity is broken,。
we operate out of a place of insecurity.。
And insecurity happens because we look at ourselves。
and we look at others and we make comparisons between them。
and we make assumptions between them.。
And you'll recognize in your own life。
that your insecurities will always tempt you。
to suppress others in order to elevate yourself.。
Are you guys with me?。
And if that's the case,。
here's the key that Moses is giving us。
right at the start of the story.。
He's saying, if there's one thing that you could do。
to align yourself to the process of Exodus,。
if there's one thing you could do to position yourself。
for more freedom in your future,。
it's deal with your insecurities.。
And how do we deal with our insecurities?。
We don't deal with them。
by trying to become more secure in ourselves.。
We don't try to convince ourselves。
that we're actually not as bad as we think.。
We don't try to convince ourselves。
that we've got power ourselves.。
No, what we do, this is what the Bible says,。
the only way you free yourself from insecurity。
is not finding security in yourself,。
but finding more security in God.。
By actually looking out of yourself and looking to Him。
and saying, I will follow Him,。
I will trust Him, I will put my promises,。
my life, my faith in Him.。
As I find my security in Him,。
I'm able to deal with the insecurities that sit in me.。
See, as we become more secure in Christ。
and who we are as His children made in the image of God,。
we become less a vehicle of slavery and injustice。
and more a vessel of freedom and grace.。
That's the journey of Exodus.。
And Moses is saying, get that right here,。
right at the start.。
And I wanna speak that over every person in this room.。
If there's one thing I invite you to deal with。
over the next 24 weeks is to bring your insecurities to God.。
He's got you.。
And He, let me say it this way.。
There is no other name more powerful than the name of Jesus.。
We just sang it, but we sing it.。
Do we believe it?。
And if we believe it,。
then we're able to move away from our tendency。
to enslave and oppress others。
and become more like Christ。
wanting to bring freedom and grace in this world.。
And there's an army rising up。
of people that are willing to do that.。
That, my friends, is an echo of Exodus.。
Now, what does this slavery feel like?。
What was it like to be found in slavery in those days?。
What was it like to actually be oppressed?。
Was it just a physical thing or was it much more than that?。
And were men and women enslaved in the same way?。
Well, to answer those questions,。
let me take you back once again to Egypt.。
We are introduced to the starting point。
of the Exodus narrative in Exodus 1:8-11,。
where we learn of a new king who comes to power in Egypt。
and immediately places Israel into slavery.。
I mean, literally overnight, their freedoms are gone。
and they're suddenly thrust into forced labor,。
constructing storehouses。
as well as temples of Pharaoh across the land.。
One such temple is here at Tel Basta,。
some 80 kilometers northeast of modern-day Cairo.。
Built for the worship of the feline goddess Bastet。
some 3,500 years ago,。
the temple now lays here in ruin。
but gives us a unique insight。
into the kind of slavery the Jewish people were placed under.。
Standing here today and being surrounded by all of this。
is an incredibly rare privilege.。
I mean, these are 3,500-year-old antiquities.。
And being here, I get a great sense of the grandeur。
and the size that this temple would have been.。
It would have taken thousands of slaves years to construct it.。
And take, for example, the granite here.。
This granite is not from around here.。
It's probably from a quarry about 1,000 kilometers away.。
So the slaves would have had to have dragged this here。
and then shaped and constructed it on site.。
I mean, that's incredibly backbreaking work。
in the harsh climate of this land.。
Not only this, but the slaves also would have had。
to spend their days carving out idols of gods。
that they refused to worship。
and worldviews that they refused to accept.。
Case in point is seen here.。
This is the image of Ka.。
It's two arms pointed to the heavens,。
which in ancient Egyptian religion symbolized the soul.。
But notice something.。
There's no head and no real body to it.。
And that was on purpose,。
'cause this was communicating that our connection。
of our soul to the gods is devoid。
of any of our personal identity.。
Now, think about the Jewish slaves and their worldview.。
They worshiped a god that they saw as a good father,。
who they understood created them in the image of their god.。
So the idea of kind of taking away the identity。
from our worship of God。
would have been actually deeply offensive to them.。
All of which actually raises a really important point。
for each of us to reflect on。
as we think about our own journeys from slavery to freedom.。
You see, slavery is never just merely physical.。
It involves the whole of who we are.。
The mental, emotional, and social toll on the Israelites。
in constructing this temple was just as cruel。
as the physical toll that was required to do it.。
And I think actually that that was the main point.。
You see, in constructing this temple,。
it was designed not just to break。
the Jewish people's physical backs,。
but their spiritual ones as well.。
There was one further aspect of slavery。
that was unique to the Israelites here in Egypt。
and actually profound for shaping。
the whole of the Exodus itself.。
And to tell you about that,。
I now need to take us from the temple here in Tel Basta。
to the remote turquoise mines of Sinai Peninsula.。
The Sinai Peninsula is nicknamed the land of turquoise。
by the local Egyptians that live here.。
The mining of it dates back to the first dynasty。
when Egyptians sourced it from the coastal mines。
and mountains of this area.。
And while much like today,。
it was originally used for jewelry and ornaments,。
its adoption by many pharaohs created a mythology around it。
centered on the idea that the stone was a protector。
and bringer of good fortune.。
So many Egyptian women wore the stone。
in hopes of becoming pregnant。
that the goddess of fertility, Hathor,。
was eventually called the mistress of turquoise.。
(gentle music)。
The turquoise that is mined in this area。
is some of the purest in the world。
and it really is so vivid and so beautiful.。
But as is often the case in life,。
sometimes the things that are most beautiful on the outside。
are actually distracting us。
from the things that are dark within.。
This is a small example of the mines。
that are found scattered in the mountains in this area.。
Now, the actual turquoise itself is mined from the veins。
that you can see here in the ceiling and on the walls。
and then sent for processing at the plants in this region.。
Now, the earliest evidence suggests。
that the mining was done here。
by local Sinai inhabitants at the start.。
But as the turquoise gained in its popularity and demand,。
they needed to ship in some additional labor force.。
So it was here in the hills of Sinai。
that many Jewish slaves were forced to come to work,。
spending countless hours in cramp and awkward conditions,。
often in the dark, digging and excavating。
for the precious stone that would go on。
to adorn the rich and powerful.。
And here is what is important about all of that.。
You see, unlike the muscle and brawn。
that was needed to construct the temple in Tel Basta,。
the work here in these caves was intricate and detailed。
and very repetitive.。
It was work that was done largely by women.。
I want you to think on this.。
Imagine a thousand enslaved Hebrew women in these caves,。
working day in, day out to mine a precious stone。
that would go on to be adorned by Egyptian women。
to symbolize their freedom and power.。
And if that wasn't kind of ironic enough,。
the actual ancient Egyptian goddess of justice。
came to be symbolized by turquoise.。
Yeah, the goddess of justice.。
I think for the Jewish women enslaved in these caves。
for hours upon hours, surely turquoise was anything but.。
So slavery impacted both men and women alike,。
whether it was in temples or in caves,。
in cities or in deserts,。
the Jewish people were placed under a brutal regime。
that impacted their mental, physical, social,。
and spiritual lives.。
Indeed, the oppression was so strong。
that in order to stop it,。
it would require an equal but opposite force。
that was so powerful that actually the whole of history。
itself turned on its axis.。
And how did that power begin?。
Well, Exodus chapter one introduces us。
to two Hebrew unnamed midwives。
who have the courage and the audacity。
to finally stand up against an empire of injustice。
and draw the line in the sand and say enough is enough.。
Deliverance so often begins in the most unlikely of places.。
Would you like to meet these two women?。
- Yes. - Yes.。
- Yes.。
- Exodus one, starting in verse 15.。
The king of Egypt said to the Hebrew midwives。
whose name was Shifra and Pua,。
when you help the Hebrew women in childbirth。
and observe them on the delivery stool,。
if it's a boy, kill him,。
but if it's a girl, let her live.。
The midwives, however, feared God。
and did not do what the king of Egypt had told them to do.。
They let the boys live.。
Just a few verses here that Moses includes,。
but this is the most incredible turning point。
in this whole story,。
because the very first people that stand up。
against an evil empire and an evil regime are two women,。
two women who have the courage。
when Pharaoh has told them to do something,。
and remember, they're slaves,。
so they actually have no choice whether they do it or not.。
They're expected to carry it out.。
They decide that enough is enough。
and it's time to make a change,。
and Moses, who's writing this,。
it's fascinating to me because Moses was steeped。
in the culture of patriarchy.。
He understood the culture of patriarchy。
and the way that men were seen as the movers。
and the shakers and the change agents,。
and he says, "You need to understand,。
"before I'm even on the scene,。
"the people that really change history are two women,。
"two women that are willing to stand up。
"at a time when they so easily。
"could have just turned a blind eye。
"and say, 'This slavery is wrong.'"。
The Bible describes them here as Hebrew midwives.。
Now, the profession of being a midwife,。
midwifery in those days, was incredibly important.。
In fact, in the ancient Near Eastern time,。
particularly in Egypt,。
infant mortality rates were incredibly high,。
so the profession of being a midwife was very respected,。
and often family would put their trust。
in a particular midwife to ensure。
that their child would be delivered alive or not.。
In other words, they saw that the midwives。
held in their hands literally the power of life and death,。
and in Egypt in particular,。
these midwives were deeply revered.。
They were revered because of the superstitious。
and supernatural belief that the Egyptians had。
around life and death and birth and that sort of thing,。
and so they would see these midwives。
as actually very important people within society.。
Now, we know that these particular midwives are actually,。
'cause they're Hebrew, they would have been slaves.。
Now, because Pharaoh deals with them,。
it shows both the respect to the role they had,。
but it was also likely that these two midwives。
were midwives within Pharaoh's wider harem,。
probably within his house in particular,。
and he says to these two Hebrew women,。
"Hey, when the men are delivered,。
"when you deliver a boy, kill him right there。
"and right there."。
Now, you might think,。
"Why would a Hebrew kill another Hebrew in those moments?"。
Again, you got to remember, this is slavery.。
This is a time when when you're given an order,。
you never doubt it, and you do what it says.。
Not only that, though, history will tell you。
that so often when a majority culture。
wants to do a genocide on a minority culture,。
so often that power will get members of the minority culture。
to carry out the genocide itself.。
That has happened throughout human history,。
and here we see another example of it.。
And so Pharaoh expects these two women to act.。
Now, the other interesting thing。
about being a midwife in those days。
is that midwives themselves were chosen for that role。
largely because they were infertile and barren.。
These are women that weren't able。
to bring their own children into the world,。
and because of that, they were then selected。
to bring the children of other people into the world.。
Now, you can imagine that could either be viewed。
as a bit of an embarrassment, a bit of a shame,。
or that could be viewed as a great gift.。
And we don't know what it is。
for these two particular women,。
but we do know that they are childless.。
We do know that they have no families of their own,。
and we know that there are slaves within Pharaoh's harem,。
and they're responsible for now committing genocide.。
And they decide that this is not what they're gonna do.。
And I want you to see why.。
It says here in verse 17,。
"The midwives, however, feared God."。
There it is.。
Very simple thing, feared God.。
And this fear of God was greater for them。
than the fear of Pharaoh.。
And by fearing God, they're not,。
this word is actually repeated a lot。
throughout the Old Testament.。
It's not about this idea of afraid or scared,。
but feared God is the idea of reverence and awe。
and worship and respect and humility of saying,。
"God is all-powerful.。
"He is all-holy.。
"We're not, and we need to worship Him,。
"respect Him, be in awe of Him."。
That's the idea of fearing.。
And what Moses tells us here is that these two women。
who are named Shiphrah and Puah,。
these two women are actually fearing God.。
And because they fear God,。
they're able to take a stand。
against what's happening to their people,。
and they're able to take a stand。
against what they've been told to do,。
which is to do genocide.。
Now, here's the important thing.。
All of this is Moses trying to communicate to us。
one really critical piece。
right at the start of the Exodus story.。
He's trying to say,。
no matter how powerful slavery might be,。
no matter how powerful the force of slavery might be,。
there exists in the world a power that is greater than it.。
And that power is the courage。
that comes upon us as humans。
that is fueled and driven by our fear of God.。
And that courage enables these two women。
to realize that despite how strong slavery was,。
it did not remove the power of their choice.。
They still had a choice.。
And their choice was obey Pharaoh's order and live。
or disobey Pharaoh's order and die.。
And they choose death to themselves。
so that others might live.。
Now, I want you to see why this is really important.。
Note this.。
The Hebrew midwives choose death for themselves。
so that others might live.。
That is the exact opposite of what insecurity does.。
Insecurity ensures a life for yourself。
through the death of others.。
Are you with me, church?。
Do you follow this?。
And so what Moses is saying is。
there's Pharaoh in insecurity。
who's enslaving the Israelites。
and calling out for genocide.。
Here's two women who stand up against it。
because they decide that they have the courage。
in their fear of God,。
that they're saying he is more powerful,。
he is more honorable,。
I'm gonna listen to him over anything else.。
And they're willing to even sacrifice their own lives。
so that others might live.。
That's the exact opposite of insecurity.。
And Moses is saying, check out the power of these women.。
That when you're willing to stand in the gap。
against injustice,。
when you're willing to stand in the gap against enslavery,。
when you realize that you still have the power to choose,。
then Exodus happens.。
The beginning of our Exodus story。
is the incredible story of two women。
who make an overtly political decision。
to stand against the political authority of their day。
and fear God first.。
And that changes everything.。
That literally is the starting point of everything.。
The courage to choose life over death.。
And what Moses is asking of everybody reading this,。
right at the start of the story,。
it's essentially this,。
whom ultimately will you serve?。
Come on church.。
Whom ultimately will you serve?。
Will you serve me?。
He's saying, this is God,。
will you serve me or will you serve her?。
Will you serve life or will you serve death?。
Will you serve the things of the flesh in your soul。
or the flesh in your sinful nature。
or will you serve and fear me and want to please me?。
Which will you choose?。
He's basically saying.。
Because here's two women。
who are under the oppression of slavery from Pharaoh。
and they make a choice for life.。
And then there's us.。
And we have to think,。
are we in such a situation that they're in?。
Like are the choices that we're making ones。
where we could literally die?。
And yet how often do we choose death over life?。
Yet how often do we choose to remain enslaved。
rather than move into life?。
You see, Shifra and Pua teach us。
that we don't have to be passive in the face of evil.。
Shifra and Pua actually teach us。
that we don't have to adopt the role of victim in a story.。
Shifra and Pua actually teach us that when we fear God,。
we can find the courage inside of us。
to actually stand against the darkness of our day。
and say enough is enough。
and flex the one muscle that always breaks through。
and that's the muscle that is no.。
This is enough.。
This is done.。
We are not gonna do what you say.。
And in the beauty of this, Exodus begins.。
And I want you to see what God is doing here.。
And this is so beautiful to me.。
You see, note this.。
The very instruments that Pharaoh had chosen。
to carry out his plans。
became the very instruments that God uses。
to thwart those plans.。
Isn't that powerful?。
Because Pharaoh wanted to use the women to kill the kids.。
That was his desire.。
He wanted to use these women to kill the kids,。
to kill the men that were being born.。
And God steps in and says,。
I'm gonna use those very instruments to change the world.。
I'm gonna use those very instruments。
to be the starting point of no.。
I'm gonna use those very instruments。
to be the beginning point of all that I'm gonna do。
in the rest of the story.。
You see, what Pharaoh wanted to do。
was bring women under subjugation.。
Notice this, women who are the carers。
and the givers of life are chosen by Pharaoh。
to be the destroyers of it.。
And these women say, no, that's not our role.。
That's not who we are.。
We are not the destroyers of life.。
We're the carers and the givers of life.。
And these two midwives say, we're the deliverers of life.。
And I want you to see the powerful prophetic thing。
that's happening here.。
These two women are basically saying,。
our role is to deliver life and not death.。
And so right at the start of the story,。
you see two women delivering Hebrew children to life.。
And this is a prophetic announcement。
of what God's gonna do next in the story,。
where he delivers a whole nation from death to life.。
But in the starting point,。
it's a microcosm on these two women.。
And I think essentially what they're saying is this,。
hey, we're all midwives.。
We're all midwives.。
And we might not be delivering children,。
but we are delivering choices.。
The most spiritual act you will ever do。
is the act of a choice.。
Right at the end of the Exodus,。
and I'm jumping forward a little bit,。
Moses stands before his people and he says,。
today I give you life and death.。
Choose life.。
He says, me and my household, we're gonna choose life.。
And I wanna stand before you。
at the beginning of your own Exodus.。
As you thought about your departure point last week,。
and you think about Exodus that's ahead here,。
and I know the stories,。
oh, Angie, if only you understood。
the slavery that you're under.。
And here's two women,。
already under the slavery。
of a patriarchal society and culture,。
but equally under the slavery of Pharaoh and Egypt,。
who say we still have the power to choose life.。
My prayer for you as you start this journey。
is that you would find in the fear of God,。
in your relationship with Him,。
the courage you need to say no。
to whatever it is that is enslaving you.。
The courage that you need to say,。
I'm gonna make better choices.。
The courage that you need to say,。
I'm not gonna be tempted by that sin anymore.。
The courage that you need to say no。
where you have been saying yes.。
And as you take that courage,。
you align yourself to the freedom that comes,。
not with the insecurity that wants to enslave,。
but the fear of God that wants to bring life.。
Can I pray for you guys?。
Would you stand with me?。
Let me pray.。
Father, I thank you so much for Shifra and Pu'er。
and for the legacy they leave behind to us.。
I thank you so much, Lord,。
for the way in which they live their lives.。
I thank you that we have,。
in Moses' recounting of their story, their names.。
It's fascinating to me that we never hear the name of Pharaoh。
but we are given the name of these two women.。
And so for 3,500 years, they've been known.。
And we know their names because they decided。
that they still had a power of choice.。
And they were willing to go to their death。
so that others might live.。
They were willing to sacrifice their freedom。
so that others might find freedom.。
And as Moses brings us to the picture of these women,。
he's really bringing us to the picture of ourselves.。
And he's saying, who it is。
that you're ultimately gonna follow, me or Pharaoh?。
Are you ultimately gonna think you're a victim?。
Or are you gonna realize that because my spirit is in you,。
same spirit that raised Jesus from the dead in you,。
that together we can work towards freedom。
and the chains can break.。
There is no greater name than the name of Jesus.。
And as we put our security in him,。
we find ourselves becoming vessels of freedom and grace.。
Father, I wanna pray that you would move。
over each person here now.。
And Father, I ask that you would give them courage, Lord.。
Courage for the journey ahead in Exodus.。
Courage to say no to the things that they need to say no to,。
yes to the things they need to say yes to.。
Courage to stand against the work of sin in their lives.。
Courage in the fear of you to know that they don't need。
to be giving in all the time to the temptations around them.。
Courage to start making better choices,。
better decisions for their families,。
for their marriage, for their children.。
Courage for their marriages, for their relationships.。
Lord, I pray you'd fill us with the courage。
that you filled those two women with.。
That in our fear of you, the awe, the worship,。
and the majesty of you,。
your spirit would work to set us free.。
I encourage you just to bring that before the Lord。
in your own way right now.。
Ask for his courage.。
Commit yourself in fear of him, in that awe,。
in the respect and the wonder of him.。
And through that,。
put yourself right at the starting line。
of everything that he wants to bring to you.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
