Have a seat, have a seat.。
My name's Andrew, I'm one of the pastors here,。
and you're relatively new to the Vine.。
We're so glad you're with us.。
We're in week two of a four-week series。
on the topic of personal transformation.。
And this idea in scripture。
that one of the primary ministries of Jesus。
is to, through his spirit and his truth,。
take us from the people that we are right now。
to the people that he longs for us to be,。
the people he's created us to be.。
And we're basing this series in Ezra, the book of Ezra,。
and specifically this moment of pivotal history。
for Israel's people,。
where they've been taken out of their exile in Babylon,。
the 70 years of exile in Babylon,。
and now released by Cyrus, the king of Persia,。
to go back to Jerusalem,。
and they're standing there in the book of Ezra。
in the rubble of Jerusalem,。
where Jerusalem, some 70 years before,。
had been this glorious city.。
The Babylonians had come in, pulled down the wall,。
destroyed the temple, 70 years in exile.。
Now the Jewish people,。
back standing in the rubble of the city they love.。
And as they're standing in that rubble,。
they hear the taunts of the enemies around them.。
And those taunts say, "Can you see the rubble around you?。
"Can you see how burnt out the stones are?。
"Can you see what was once glorious。
"now lies in ruin around you?。
"Can life ever come back to these burnt out stones?"。
And we said last week that for Israel, so for us,。
that there's things that lie in ruin in us,。
rubble that we're aware of in our own lives.。
Perhaps something that's happened to us in the past,。
something that we're not proud of.。
Perhaps the mistakes we've made,。
or maybe mistakes others made to us.。
Trauma that's embedded, hurt and shame,。
failure, pain, whatever it might be.。
But I think all of us can recognize。
that there's some things in our lives that lie in ruin.。
Rubble that we're asking ourselves,。
"Can anything good ever come from this?"。
That we wrestle, don't we, with sometimes recognizing。
that we're not the people that we wanna be.。
And we think, "You know what?。
"I can never be the person that I wanna be.。
"I can never be the person God wants me to be.。
"'Cause I've got this rubble and this ruin.。
"And have you seen it?"。
And if you could see it,。
you'd know that nothing good could ever come from this.。
What we saw last week in Ezra chapter three。
is this beautiful moment where the builders。
bring out the first stones to begin to rebuild the temple。
that had been destroyed some 70 years before.。
And as they bring it out,。
there's this sense of that question hanging over Israel.。
Are you going to agree with the taunts of the enemy,。
see the rubble around you,。
and think nothing good could ever come from it?。
Or are you gonna get a new mindset。
and then recognize that there is that rubble,。
but believe that in the power and in the mercy of God,。
the rain that falls by the Holy Spirit,。
what was rubble in this moment。
can become a new building in the next.。
And last week, I shared with you some ways。
in which I think God begins this process。
of personal transformation in our lives。
in those areas that we recognize。
have that ruin and that rubble.。
And I wanted to summarize four things specifically。
that we talked about last week,。
just to help you get a sense of where we are in this series.。
And then we're gonna go from there.。
Here's the first thing we learned last week.。
Any process of personal transformation doesn't begin。
until we take an honest and sober look。
at the rubble that exists in our lives.。
We must understand and own what needs to change within us.。
No one has ever changed or transformed。
without first saying there's something inside of me。
that needs to change.。
And it's a sober thing to recognize。
that there is rubble and ruin,。
not to try to hide it,。
not to try to pretend it's not there,。
but to say, "Lord, I recognize it,。
and I know I can't do anything about it,。
but Lord, I bring it to you."。
We saw last week, number two,。
that God's work of renewal begins in the rubble.。
It's the very place where he does his best work.。
He doesn't remove our rubble, he restores it.。
The beautiful thing that we saw last week。
that those first kind of stones。
that were laid by the builders。
were out of that burnt out rubble。
where people thought nothing good could ever come of that.。
That becomes the stone the builders rejected,。
becomes the cornerstone.。
The things in our lives that we think,。
"Oh man, if only I could just get rid。
of all of that gunk and stuff."。
That's the stuff that God's playground.。
He looks at that stuff in your life,。
he rolls up his sleeves and says,。
"Come on, we're gonna do something。
with what you thought could never be transformed or renewed."。
Thirdly, we saw this last week,。
as Christians, worship must begin a process。
of transformation, not just complete it.。
When we are in the rubble,。
our worship should focus on the character of God。
over the circumstance of the world.。
We often worship as a response,。
worship out of the overflow。
or the outcome of something God's done.。
God's answered that prayer, he's come through for me,。
he's done that miracle, out of that I find worship.。
And that's absolutely right,。
we should worship out of outcome.。
But what we see in Ezra chapter three。
is that the Jewish people, the Israelites,。
began worship long before they saw an outcome.。
They lay the foundations of the stone。
through this act of worship, giving praise and glory,。
not because of what they can see with their eyes,。
not because of some thing that they're expecting God。
to do in the future, they praise for the character of God。
over the circumstance they find themselves in.。
And every move of personal transformation in your life。
will happen as we shift towards this worship。
of his character over our circumstance.。
Not an easy thing to do,。
but something glorious when we do it.。
And here's the fourth thing, we said this,。
we must understand that God's renewal takes time.。
It is a journey of many small, obedient decisions。
within a much larger framework。
of God's purposes in our lives.。
We would love a magic wand to be waved。
and suddenly that trauma goes, but the reality is,。
so often it's those small little steps。
that we take each day when we stay obedient。
to the thing that God's called us in our lives,。
that God shapes a masterpiece over time.。
Some of the most important things。
that God will ever do in your life,。
it's gonna take some time.。
And sometimes opening ourselves up。
to the journey of that process is primary。
in this season of transformation in our lives.。
So that was last week, if you weren't here last week,。
you can jump back online, you can hear it,。
or you can just take a photo of that slide。
and go, I've got it, all right?。
So last week, we focused on this idea。
that personal transformation begins with this.。
Today, I wanna talk about, as we continue this passage,。
I wanna talk about the environment。
by which personal transformation truly happens。
and how we here at The Vine might be able。
to create that kind of environment together.。
And to tell you about that, I wanna share a quick story.。
In my early 20s, I worked for a recruitment company.。
It was a headhunting firm,。
an international headhunting company。
that had offices in New York, in Hong Kong, and in Tokyo.。
And it just so happened that when I was about 23 years old,。
most of my clients, most of my candidates。
were based in Tokyo.。
So every eight weeks, I would have a business trip。
up to Tokyo, and for Monday to Friday,。
I would be in the Tokyo office,。
and I'd be meeting with my clients,。
meeting with my candidates and doing all that,。
then I'd come back to Hong Kong.。
But on this one particular trip,。
the company up in Japan asked me to stay for two weeks,。
which meant that I was gonna, for the first time,。
stay over the weekend in Tokyo.。
And I had come to Christ about three years prior to this.。
So I came to Jesus at university。
when I was in my early 20s.。
Now I'm 23, I'm in Tokyo, I'm staying over the weekend.。
And I decided I wanted to go and visit a church,。
not knowing anything really about the Christian context。
in Japan or about churches in general.。
And you also have to remember,。
I'm kinda dating myself here,。
but this was quite a while ago, okay, when I was 23.。
So the interwebs was not quite the thing that it is today.。
It existed, okay, we used it,。
but there was no Google Maps,。
there was no kinda stuff like that,。
none of that existed yet.。
So I did the smart thing,。
I turned to my Japanese colleague in the office,。
and I said, "Hey, would you make some phone calls for me。
"and find out if there's a church near where I'm staying?"。
And he's like, "Oh, Anjusan, Anjusan, okay, okay."。
(audience laughing)。
So he makes some phone calls across the day,。
and at the end of the day, he comes to me,。
he's like, "Oh, Anjusan,"。
he goes, "I find a church for you."。
And I'm like, "Oh, that's great."。
He's like, "It's only a 10-minute walk from your hotel。
"where you're staying, fantastic."。
He says, "It's on the 14th floor。
"of this industrial building,"。
and he gave me the details, he wrote it all out for me.。
So sure enough, on the Sunday,。
I think the service started at like 9.30 or 10,。
I can't fully remember,。
but I was there on time, got in the lift,。
I went up, the doors of the lift opened on the 14th floor,。
and I looked at what was in front of me,。
and I immediately began to think,。
I might need to fire my colleague.。
(audience laughing)。
In front of me was this old Japanese lady,。
beautiful lady, probably in her late 70s, early 80s,。
wearing a very formal Japanese outfit,。
hunched a little bit because of her age.。
When she saw the doors open, her eyes just lit up.。
She was so excited.。
She's like, "A foreigner has come to our church.。
"Like, revival is breaking out."。
And she gives me like this little brochure。
that was all in Japanese.。
She opens this door and leads me into this room.。
I go into this room.。
There's probably about 50 chairs in this room,。
a small kind of room, about 50 chairs.。
There's about 15 people standing in the room.。
As I come in, all 15 people turn around,。
and I immediately realize that the youngest person。
in that room, other than me, was probably about 78.。
(audience laughing)。
And they were all super conservative, old Japanese people.。
And they all stared at me with eyes lit up,。
just like the lady at the entrance.。
And they all rushed over me,。
and it was that awkward moment when you're not Japanese,。
you don't know what to do.。
It's like, do you bow?。
They're all bowing.。
They're all welcoming me.。
They're speaking Japanese.。
I don't speak Japanese.。
They obviously don't speak much English.。
Super awkward, but everybody's being super friendly,。
super nice, and I'm like, "Okay, I guess I'll go."。
I can't leave now.。
That would be the worst thing ever.。
See you guys.。
Nice to, you know.。
So I'm like, I'm stuck.。
Anyway, this guy, probably about 82, 83,。
he grabbed me and he pulled me down the aisle.。
He stood next to me.。
He's like, "Oh, oh, oh, oh," you know, like this.。
(audience laughing)。
And then worship started.。
Now, when worship started, half of the congregation。
got up on stage, 'cause they were the worship team, right?。
So there was like six of us left, six on the stage.。
They had like keyboardists and drummers。
and guitarists and singers.。
Over the next 15 minutes,。
it's hard to describe to you that experience,。
but I would say it like this.。
It was very easily the worst worship。
I have ever heard in my life.。
Like not just 23, but now that I'm 50, okay?。
The worst, the guitar player, he gets so old,。
he could barely fret a chord, okay?。
The pianist, I think, was deaf。
because they were pounding the keys as hard as they could.。
The drummer must have probably been able to drum。
50 years ago, but right now,。
he could not find a rhythm at all.。
And I realized every single person had decided。
that they had a song they wanted to bring to worship,。
but none of them have talked to each other about it,。
and they're all just playing whatever they want to play.。
And I haven't even told you yet about the singers.。
(audience laughing)。
They were terrible.。
Like so bad, like couldn't hold a tune,。
couldn't do anything.。
And I'm standing there thinking,。
this is the worst thing I've ever heard.。
And I turn to the guy next to me,。
and I'm about to go like,。
(imitates guitar playing)。
you know, like this.。
And he's like, he's like lost like 30 years.。
He's jumping up in the air,。
his arms are pumped up in the air,。
and I'm thinking, what is going on?。
For me, this is the kind of worship。
that makes Jesus not want to come back to the world.。
(audience laughing)。
It's the kind of worship that keeps Jesus away.。
I don't want to be anywhere near those humans.。
But this guy's going like crazy,。
and he's shouting something.。
Here's what he's shouting.。
He's going, he's saying,。
(imitates guitar playing)。
He turns to me, he grabs me by the arms.。
(imitates guitar playing)。
He looked like really angry,。
like (imitates guitar playing)。
I'm thinking maybe, I have no idea what (imitates guitar playing)。
but I'm thinking maybe it's the name。
of the actual worship pastor。
who was sick and didn't show up that day.。
And he's like, oh, Tenkuo Saku, where is he?。
I'm like, yes, Tenkuo Saku, I wish he was here too.。
But he's screaming.。
And the reason why I remember Tenkuo Saku。
is 'cause he said it like 100 times,。
top of his lung, Tenkuo Saku, Tenkuo Saku.。
Monday morning, I'm back at the office,。
and I find my colleague.。
(audience laughing)。
And after slapping him around a little bit,。
I said to him, I said, can you define a word for me?。
I heard at this church this word, Tenkuo Saku.。
What does Tenkuo Saku mean?。
And he's like, oh, this is interesting.。
This is not a standard Japanese word.。
It's not a word that I know,。
but it's a conjoint of lots of things coming.。
He starts to explain all this stuff.。
And he's like, it's like lots of different ideas。
brought down into this one word.。
And I'm like, okay, well, what are the ideas?。
And he said, well, there's a shaking, a tearing,。
and then there's like the sky.。
So I said, you mean it's like a shaking the sky?。
He's like, yes, yes, but also like tearing,。
wanting to tear the sky.。
And I'm like, could it be like heaven,。
like tear the heavens, shake the heavens?。
He's like, yes, yes, yes, like shake the heavens.。
It's funny, isn't it?。
How you can have, two people,。
can have exactly the same experience,。
but have completely different reactions。
and perspectives of it.。
I show up in this church with my baggage of worship。
that I had, which was the vines worship.。
Oh yeah, great musicians, perfect sound.。
Everybody in tune, actually playing the same song.。
Singing in tune, the beautiful sense。
of God's presence among.。
I mean, this was me.。
That's what constituted good worship.。
Are you with me?。
So I walk into that room, knowing the baggage,。
having the history of that kind of worship,。
and I'm experiencing what I'm experiencing.。
And I'm thinking, this is not worship at all,。
but the Japanese man next to me,。
who maybe has never heard any other kind of worship。
than what was happening in that room.。
Maybe that church always, that's just been the way it is.。
It's a bit of a free for all, but he's standing there。
and he's like, I'm not here to hear skillful musicians.。
I'm here to praise the one that saved me.。
And I'm gonna stand here and go,。
take in new Osaka, rape open the heavens Lord,。
bring your glory to this earth.。
And I don't care what the musicians are doing。
and how it sounds, it's about my heart。
and honoring the one, even if we're not honoring him。
with the skills.。
Rip open, shake open the heavens.。
I, I wanted to run away.。
That church, we're running in.。
I wanted to weep.。
They wanted to worship.。
And as we get back to this moment。
that Ezra's describing for us in chapter three,。
as this incredible things happening。
with the rebuilding of the temple,。
almost exactly the same thing happens here.。
And as we begin to unpack the reality。
of what is happening in these moments,。
I think we can see something quite profound。
that might help to shape our personal growth in moment two.。
Let me read this to you from Ezra three,。
picking up from where we read last week.。
When the builders laid the foundation。
of the temple of the Lord, the priests in their vestments。
and with trumpets and the Levites,。
the sons of Asper and the symbols,。
took their places to praise the Lord。
as prescribed by David, King of Israel.。
With praise and thanksgiving, they sang to the Lord,。
he is good, his love endures forever.。
And all the people gave a great shout of praise。
to the Lord because the foundation。
of the house of the Lord was laid.。
Now listen to this.。
But many of the older priests and Levites。
and family heads who had seen the former temple。
wept aloud when they saw the foundations。
of this temple being laid.。
While many others shouted for joy.。
No one could distinguish the sounds of the shouts of joy。
from the sound of weeping。
because the people made so much noise.。
Father, as we open this up for each person here,。
I pray that Lord, you would do something profound for us。
as we honor the reality of every person's story.。
And we thank you for this in Jesus' name, amen.。
One group of people, two very different reactions.。
The whole group seeing the same thing.。
They see the rubble of Jerusalem lying around them.。
They see the stones being brought in。
to be laid in the temple.。
Everybody seeing the same thing,。
two very different reactions.。
On the one side, there are these older people.。
Now, actually, Ezra tells us something。
really important in the text.。
He says, they're so old, he doesn't quite say it that way,。
but that's my way of saying it.。
They're so old that they actually had seen。
the former temple.。
Now, remember the history here.。
They were in exile for 70 years.。
So anybody returning back to Jerusalem。
who was over the age of about 74。
in their early 80s into their 90s,。
they would have seen the former temple.。
Not only that, but they probably would have worshipped。
in the former temple.。
And they would have seen this glorious temple.。
There's an image here coming up behind me,。
which is just this beautiful artist's rendition。
from the Bible Society。
of what that temple would have looked like.。
It was one of the most glorious architectural wonders。
of that ancient world.。
And these people, these older Israelites,。
Levites and priests and family heads,。
had, with their own eyes, seen the glory of that temple.。
Not only that, but they would have experienced。
the power of God's presence within it.。
Now, I wanna just give you a sense。
of what the power of that presence was like。
by reading you the short passage。
about the dedication of the first temple.。
Now, this was years, years before.。
Obviously, none of these people were there for that moment.。
But this is the moment where Solomon dedicates the temple,。
that temple you're seeing on the screen.。
This is 2 Chronicles 7, verses one to three.。
When Solomon finished praying, fire came down from heaven。
and consumed the burnt offering and sacrifices,。
and the glory of the Lord filled the temple.。
The priest could not enter the temple of the Lord。
because the glory of the Lord filled it.。
When all the Israelites saw the fire coming down。
and the glory of the Lord above the temple,。
they knelt on the pavement with their faces to the ground,。
and they worshipped and gave thanks to the Lord,。
saying, "He is good.。
"His love endures forever."。
So here's the interesting thing.。
The older Levites and priests now, in Ezra's time,。
obviously, they weren't there in that moment。
of the first dedication of the temple,。
but 'cause they're the Levites and the priests,。
they know the story, they know exactly what's happened,。
they know what was happening,。
and they're now standing in the rubble of that temple,。
and they're weeping, and they're weeping because guess what?。
The people of Israel are singing the same song,。
but it's not having the same result.。
Notice in the Ezra passage,。
as Ezra, if you bring it up on the screen.。
Ezra said that the people sing the same thing.。
"He is good, his love endures forever."。
And these older ones who know that that was sung。
when the first temple was laid,。
they're looking at this second temple,。
and they're like, "Are we crazy?。
"Can you not see the rubble that's around us?。
"I remember what it used to look like.。
"I remember in my mind the glory of this temple.。
"I felt the power of the presence of God。
"who filled that temple up until the moment。
"that the Babylonians tore it down,。
"and now we're standing here, and you're going,。
"'Woo-hoo, he is good,' and they're thinking,。
"'No, everything is lost.。
"'It's all gone.。
"'This is not good.。
"'We saw it before.。
"'We knew how great it was,。
"'but right here, it isn't great anymore.'"。
They're weeping for what they have lost.。
They're weeping, not looking forward and going,。
"Hey, here's what God's about to do."。
They're weeping 'cause all they can think about。
is what they've lost.。
They're not in a situation where they're thinking。
about what they're about to gain.。
They're weeping because of just all the things。
that they've already lost.。
I wonder if that resonates with any of you here.。
I know it does for me.。
I know it's quite easy to think that my best years。
of my life are already in the rearview mirror,。
like those moments back in the old days.。
Some people in my generation and above,。
we have this phrase, if you're young here,。
it will annoy you, I'm sure, and you've heard it.。
Many times, "Oh, in our day."。
Well, if only you'd been in my time.。
In our day, there was no social media.。
People actually talked to each other.。
It was great.。
We actually had community in my day,。
whatever it might be.。
We know what it's like, isn't it,。
to look back on the past with rose-tinted spectacles,。
to look back and go, "Oh, man, I remember those days.。
"Oh, that was great.。
"It's not so great anymore, but it was awesome back there."。
We do this not just in terms of history and experience.。
We do this in terms of relationships.。
How many of us here might be honest and say,。
"Man, I wish my husband would be like he was。
"when we first got married.。
"I wish my relationship was as romantic。
"as it was when we first started dating.。
"Now it feels like my spouse doesn't even look at me."。
As humans, we have this tendency to always look back。
on the things in the past with these rose-colored glasses,。
kind of being selective about what we remember。
and trying to pull that to kind of say something。
about what it is today.。
But when you look back and all your focus is。
back to the glory of something in the past,。
here's what happens.。
You become blind to the importance。
of your presence in the future.。
You just get consumed by all this stuff over here,。
and it stops you from actually moving forward.。
See, in seasons of personal transformation,。
it's tempting to idolize the past,。
demonize the presence, and fear the future.。
It's really tempting for us to do that.。
And this is, I think, what the older Israelites。
and the priests are in danger of doing in this moment.。
They're idolizing the past.。
"Oh man, if you had seen that previous temple,。
"if you had seen the power that was there,。
"oh, and you think this is good,。
"you're worshiping to this?"。
It's like me in that church in Japan.。
"Really, you guys, you're worshiping to this?"。
And there's this moment, isn't there,。
where we bring the baggage and we say,。
"Well, if it's not like it was back then,。
"well, it can't be any good."。
And the priests and the Levites,。
they're in danger in this moment of weeping。
from completely missing the new thing God wants to do.。
And they're so connected back to the pain。
of what they've lost that they can't even see。
what they're about to gain.。
Not only that, but I think they're also in danger。
of wanting to stop the others from building.。
Like, "There's no point even trying.。
"We can't get back."。
That was the glorious moment.。
That was the great temple.。
Look, just put your tools down.。
There's no spirit here.。
There's no power here.。
Let's just give up.。
We're just singing words without anything.。
They're in danger of allowing the missing。
of the thing in the past to actually begin to say,。
"We're not even gonna bother。
"to move forward with the present."。
See, when you allow the grief of your past。
to continue to speak louder to you。
than the hope of your future,。
you are always going to end up in a situation。
where you're likely to resist and to not embrace。
the very transformation that God wants to do in your life.。
And in this moment, I think this is where。
these older people are, two feet here,。
and God's here saying, "Watch what I'm about to do."。
But we can actually resist the transformation。
God wants to bring us.。
If we're trying to get ourselves back。
to an old version of ourselves.。
The Hebrew word for restoration in Scripture。
is not go back.。
You know, like you think about it with a car.。
What is it like to restore an old car?。
The idea is to make it look as good as it did originally.。
That's not the Hebrew word.。
Restoration in Scripture is not about trying。
to get you back to the perfect image。
of the thing in the past.。
It's actually about taking you forward to the new thing.。
Paul would say, "Anybody who's in Christ Jesus is what?。
"A new creation.。
"The old is gone.。
"The new has come."。
But here's the older people in Israel,。
and they're weeping for what has been lost。
when God's saying, "Can't you see what you're about to gain?"。
Now, stay with me for a second,。
because I'm not saying that weeping is wrong.。
I'm not saying that mourning is bad,。
that we shouldn't feel emotions and hurt and pain,。
and we shouldn't pray.。
In fact, it's completely the opposite of that.。
Scripture has so much to say about the wonder。
of what it is for us humans to feel and have emotion。
and to know pain and to know trauma。
and to have to try to process it.。
Jesus, in the Sermon on the Mount,。
Matthew 5:4, says to everybody around him,。
he said, "Blessed are those who mourn,。
"for they will be comforted."。
In other words, it's okay to have pain.。
It's okay to look back and go,。
"Man, that was something great there that I've lost."。
It's all right to feel the disappointment and the hurt.。
In fact, the Christian religion。
is one of the most beautiful religions,。
because rather than trying to simply explain our suffering,。
the Christian religion has a God。
who joins us in that suffering.。
That's a radical thing.。
There's no other religion,。
there's no other faith in the world where that happens,。
where God will come and be a part of the pain。
and the suffering of this world.。
Jesus himself weeps out loud, bitterly,。
when his best friend, Lazarus, dies.。
He feels the pain, and he doesn't try to hide it.。
Even though he knows he's about to bring him back to life.。
Hit your head around that one for a moment.。
He weeps in the Garden of Gethsemane,。
knowing the weight of what it's going to be。
to take the sin of the world on his shoulders。
in a desperate cry before his father,。
if there's any other way,。
and he weeps and weeps in that moment,。
and yet he knows that the Lord, his father,。
is still going to be glorified.。
He knows the victory's there,。
but he still finds a place to weep.。
This is the beautiful thing about our faith.。
In Jesus, we do not just have a God of the sufferers,。
we have a God who suffers.。
Come on, church.。
That's a profound thought.。
That means that in my suffering, in my pain, in my hurt,。
in the things that I'm holding in my spirit,。
I've got a God who understands that.。
I've got a God who's not sitting on a cloud going,。
"Oh, yeah, yeah, you suffer, that must be hard."。
I've got a God who's walked in my shoes,。
knows that pain, felt it himself,。
worse than I will ever find it.。
And so I have somebody to turn to。
who understands what's going on in my life。
and can meet me in the reality of the pain。
and the brokenness that I feel.。
That liberates me to mourn.。
That allows me to bring my grief.。
This is why we have the lament Psalms in the Psalms.。
It's why we have these beautiful poems。
where God's people say, "Why have you forsaken me?。
"Where are you, God?。
"Why have you left me?。
"Why have you gone?"。
And we begin to have these beautiful expressions.。
And if I was writing the Bible and putting it together,。
I would have taken those things and left them out.。
Like, "Oh, that's a bit harsh.。
"You can't speak to God that way.。
"Let's just put that one aside."。
No, no, they're in the Scriptures to give us permission。
to bring our big feelings to God,。
to not bury them under the ground。
or try to push them away or pretend that they're not there.。
We have a God who's joined us in our suffering.。
Our suffering always has a place with him.。
I don't need to run from it.。
I don't need to hide from it.。
Equally, though, I don't need to let it overwhelm me。
to the point where I can no longer see。
what God's doing in the midst of it.。
You see, when we weep before God, here's what we do.。
We acknowledge our humanity and his divinity.。
We proclaim through our tears, faith and trust。
that he alone is able to comfort and heal.。
That's the wonder of what it is to weep.。
That's the beauty of what it is to offer it.。
And in this moment, yes, I do think that they're weeping。
because of what they feel they've lost,。
but I think there's a bigger point。
to their weeping in this moment.。
They're weeping because they realize。
that they are aligning themselves to the pain。
that is on the father's heart.。
You see, they're weeping for what I would argue。
is something called godly sorrow.。
Gotta remember the history again.。
For 70 years, they're in exile.。
And during that time, they're reflecting。
and they're thinking about what happened.。
And they're asking one critical question.。
Why did the walls come down around Jerusalem?。
Why did the temple get destroyed?。
And the prophets and the artisans。
and the writers of the Psalms in that time,。
Psalm 131, by the rivers of Babylon,。
we sat and wept when we remembered Zion.。
Their writers and their poets and their artists。
helped them to understand that the reason。
why they're in exile is not because God's abandoned them,。
not because God's turned his back on them,。
which is what they thought originally,。
but as they process it, think about it,。
spiritually God speaks in them,。
they realize they're in that place because of their choices.。
And the prophets begin to say, idolatry and injustice.。
Idolatry in terms of how they were sharing their heart。
no longer with Yahweh, but with other gods and deities.。
Injustice where through that,。
they were treating themselves and others around them。
poorly and wrongly.。
And because idolatry and injustice。
was so ripe in their midst,。
God brings the actions, the consequences。
to their sinful choices.。
And I think what's happening here for the older priests,。
as they're standing in the rubble, they're weeping,。
not just because they feel like they've lost something,。
they're weeping because they realize this is our fault.。
We did this, us.。
And I think there's something happening in their hearts。
that is aligning them to the heart of God.。
They're beginning to see sin the way that God sees it,。
and they're beginning to bring these tears of repentance,。
these beautiful, this is not the kind of tears of like,。
"Oh my gosh, I'm so bad, I've screwed up,。
"I'm such a terrible person."。
This is like, I see finally what God sees about brokenness。
and idolatry and injustice, and it is not right.。
And it breaks my heart like it breaks God's heart.。
And it breaks me even more 'cause I realize。
I was the one that did this.。
And Lord, I weep because as I look at the rubble,。
I know that we brought the walls down.。
And this profound sense of godly sorrow,。
not to beat myself up 'cause I'm the worst in the world,。
but a beautiful recognition that I finally agree with God。
and I know that he can liberate me,。
that he can forgive me and give me grace and mercy。
brings me to tears.。
Some of you here, it's really important you hear this,。
some of you here, your own journey。
and personal transformation will not begin。
until you actually have the courage to agree。
with how God sees sin and really, truly grieve。
its persistent presence in your life.。
I know it's not an easy word, but that's truth.。
Some of us, until we actually find ourselves。
like those Levites and the priests, man,。
I'm so sorry, Lord.。
I'm finally admitting and owning that this happened.。
And Lord, I come to you because I have the courage。
to agree with you in how I see myself.。
I'm sorry, Lord.。
But I'm not just sorry as in like, oh, I'm the worst.。
I'm sorry because I know I don't deserve it,。
I don't understand it, but there is grace。
and there is mercy in you and you forgive me。
and when I know that I don't deserve your forgiveness,。
but you give it to me, it makes the tears come more.。
And there's this beautiful moment。
where these people are weeping,。
maybe for the first time,。
and saying, Lord, would you forgive us?。
I love how the fact that Ezra takes that moment。
and he tells us that right alongside of it,。
there's a whole bunch of young people praising Jesus,。
praising the Lord, so excited about what's happening.。
Both of these things are right in the same moment.。
It was right for the older people to go,。
oh man, I've lost something.。
Oh man, we've done something.。
Lord, we're sorry.。
But it was also right for the young ones to stand around。
and go, isn't he good?。
Isn't he great?。
He is good.。
His love does endure forever。
'cause he's about to start a new process within us.。
This starting point of weeping。
is the beginning point of praising.。
As we bring weeping and worshiping side by side,。
something truly transformative begins to happen in our lives.。
We truly begin to become the people。
that God has always called us to be.。
This is the very soundtrack to what change is in our lives.。
We often think that personal transformation is linear.。
I'm just gonna have a season of weeping, weeping,。
weeping, weeping, and then boom, I'm in eternity of praise.。
The human experience isn't that way.。
Our human experience is weeping and worship side by side.。
Days where we feel great, days where we're struggling.。
Maybe even in the same day, moments of joy。
coupled with moments of grief.。
And what we're seeing in this passage。
is when we allow that to happen,。
when we don't shy away from it,。
when we don't try to bury it,。
when we bring worship and weeping mingled together,。
something profound happens.。
And the greatest moments of personal transformation happen。
when those two things are allowed to exist。
in our lives together.。
Some of your greatest joys can only be formed。
out of your deepest pain.。
Come on, church.。
Some of your greatest joys can only be found,。
forged in you out of your deepest pain.。
When I was 32 years old,。
I received the diagnosis of azuspermia,。
which means that I am unable。
to father children biologically.。
And this was at the end of an eight-year journey。
when my wife and I were trying to have biological family,。
all the dreams that we had in our heart for children.。
I've told this story many times.。
But that was my deepest pain.。
I began to second-guess who I was as a man.。
I began to second-guess who I was as a husband.。
I really struggled with not liking God in that moment,。
feeling like, why did he create me。
with a desire to have a family。
and then make me physically unable to do it?。
Like, is God some joker up in heaven。
who's just having fun playing with my life?。
I was in this place of darkness, deep hurt, and deep pain.。
And in those days, I found it really hard to readjust.。
But I can't even begin to describe to you what it was like。
the moment that my wife and I showed up at Mother's Choice。
and we met Mia, our adopted daughter, for the first time.。
The greatest joy I have ever experienced。
in this little half-Nepalese and half-Indonesian,。
gorgeous little 16-month-old girl.。
And although I thought my family would be built biologically,。
God has built this family through other ways。
that are beautiful and profound.。
And my greatest joy, Mia, has come from my deepest pain.。
And it's a wonderful thing.。
Worship and weeping side by side.。
And I love the way that Ezra describes this for us。
in this moment, 'cause I think this is really important.。
Verse 13, "No one could distinguish the sounds。
"of the shouts of joy from the sound of weeping。
"because people made such a noise."。
Could you imagine the moment where you're before this rubble。
and everybody is either praising at the top of their voices。
or wailing and weeping at the top of their voices,。
and these things come together in such a way。
that they blend together and create this other kind of sound。
where you can't distinguish between the two.。
One of the ways I would describe it to you is this.。
Worship and weeping may be different notes,。
but they are found on the same scale.。
And when they play together, they produce this unexpected。
but profound harmony.。
That is the sound of restoration.。
And could you imagine a community where both weeping。
and worshiping can happen as much as it happens,。
so much that it all blends in together。
so that no one stands out?。
I mean, I don't know if you've ever been。
in one of those church services, maybe here at the Vine,。
where you're standing around and suddenly someone next to you。
starts wailing their eyes out.。
It's like, "Oh, that's awkward.。
"Oh, that's kind of weird.。
"Why is that person doing that?。
"I'm kind of uncomfortable right now."。
Or maybe you come into church here on a Sunday。
and you're feeling like, "Man, that was a tough week.。
"Things are going really bad."。
Maybe you've just had some bad news and you come in,。
and the person you happen to sit next to you。
is the one who's the happiest and the loudest。
in their worship, and you're like,。
"Oh my gosh, Lord, I want to run away."。
When it's just one or two people,。
it stands out and feels awkward for everybody.。
But imagine a community where everyone has permission。
to worship or weep, where everyone can come to church。
with whatever's going on in their lives。
and go, "This is a safe place for me to let it out.。
"This is a safe place for me to put my hand up。
"and say I need prayer.。
"This is a safe place to weep。
"because there's some godly sorrow。
"that I'm wrestling with in my life.。
"This is a safe place to praise as loud as I want.。
"I can do it because everything is happening together,。
"whether in our gatherings like this,。
"in our small groups, no matter how it might happen,。
"there's such a cacophony of worship and weeping。
"that a harmony is created and everybody can grow。
"because they're welcomed, they're safe, they're loved,。
"and they can be just who, in that moment, they are."。
That, my friends,。
that, my friends, is worth a golf clap.。
Nice par.。
That, my friends, is church.。
That's what I want the Lord to read.。
So I'm gonna close with this.。
I'm gonna close with three ways。
that I think we at The Vine can actually invest into this,。
that we can make a space here for restoration and renewal.。
Here it is.。
Number one, we should always treat people around us。
with dignity, respect, and value.。
Can I have an amen?。
- Amen.。
- Isn't it wonderful that people can come in here。
smelling really badly?。
Isn't it wonderful that people can come in here。
really down and depressed and heavy?。
Isn't it wonderful that people can come in here。
with a promotion that week, praising Jesus?。
Like, it's amazing that we can respect people,。
that one who sings really loudly behind you out of tune。
and you wanna turn around and go, "Who are you?"。
Isn't it wonderful that they can be here?。
Isn't it wonderful that the person next to you。
can wail and cry and you not feel awkward about it?。
Isn't it wonderful that you have a senior pastor。
who claps really loudly all the time。
and it really annoys you?。
(congregation laughing)。
Amen?。
- Amen.。
- Isn't it wonderful?。
- It is.。
- That we can be together and be ourselves。
and not have to pretend to be anything else.。
But that will only happen when we feel safe of one another.。
And that will only happen if we give respect。
and dignity and value that every person here。
made in the image of God should demand from you.。
Here's the second thing.。
While our worship should be orderly and respectful,。
Paul writes about that in 1 Corinthians 14,。
we should not expect or force people to believe uniformly.。
We should not expect people to put their hands up。
if they don't want to,。
open their hands if they don't want to,。
sing aloud if they don't want to.。
We should allow space for people to express who they are。
and how they wanna worship in this moment.。
Worship and weeping side by side.。
The worst thing we could do is try to conform people。
to a certain way.。
That doesn't mean we can't have good discipleship,。
we can't have metrics, we can't have culture,。
we have all those things, but our heart is to say,。
we're not trying to conform you to behave in a certain way,。
we're trying for you to feel like you can come in here。
and shake the heavens,。
and whatever that might mean for you.。
Here's the third and final thing.。
Because the God we worship knows us。
better than we know ourselves,。
we should not pretend in God's presence.。
And I think that's something that I think。
I struggle with sometimes, and I'm sure you do too a bit.。
I'm just gonna shove that under the carpet,。
I'm just gonna pretend that that's not there,。
I'm just gonna like, I don't wanna embarrass myself,。
I don't wanna stand out.。
So I'm just gonna put my hands up and sing,。
but I'm feeling like I need to weep.。
Or I'm gonna praise, but the people around me。
seem like they're having a really hard time,。
so I better just calm down.。
How beautiful it would be if we realized。
that in God's presence, because he knows us。
better than anyone, we don't need to pretend.。
In his presence is the only place in this world。
where you are completely free to be who you are.。
Everywhere else, in your workplace,。
in your family, in other places,。
you will find pressure to try to conform to something.。
You do not need to conform in God's presence。
to anything other than Jesus Christ.。
Imagine what that would feel like.。
That would be a community of transformation,。
where people could come in here and heal and receive。
and have promises and forgiveness and life and celebration。
and together we would become the people。
that God has called us to be.。
Takenu osaku, shake the heavens, Lord.。
Would your power come down and change us, amen?。
