And we pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone say, "Hey, can we thank our worship team。
who so humbly lead us each week?。
Have a seat."。
My name is Andrew, I'm one of the pastors here.。
We're glad that you're with us.。
If this is relatively a new thing for you。
to come to church,。
or if this is a new thing to come to the Vine,。
we're so glad that you're with us.。
We have three services on Sunday, 9, 15, 11, and 2.。
And it's a real privilege for us to have you。
a part of the two o'clock service here this afternoon.。
I've been saying this for a little while。
since I returned from my Camino de Santiago,。
my big pilgrimage hike through Spain,。
an 800 kilometer journey from the south of France。
to the northwest of Spain.。
But I've been sharing with you。
that one of the great highlights of the Camino。
is getting to visit some of the cathedrals and churches。
along the pilgrimage, along the way.。
The walk takes about 30 to 40 days,。
depending on how you do it.。
But along the way, you come to some of these crazy cities,。
big, beautiful cities, Pamplona, Burgos, Leon,。
and of course, Santiago de Compostela。
when you get to the end.。
And each one of these huge cities。
has these beautiful cathedrals.。
Some of the most amazing cathedrals。
that you'll ever likely see.。
Just beautiful places, massive expanses of sacred space。
where people for hundreds, if not thousands of years。
have been gathering in that place。
to worship Jesus and walking into some of these。
majestic cathedrals really takes your breath away.。
It's really a profoundly powerful thing.。
But the great thing about the Camino。
is that it's not just in the major cities。
that you get to experience that.。
There are churches throughout the whole of the walk.。
Every day you're going through maybe two or three。
different villages during the walk.。
And each of those villages will have a church。
and those churches will be of a pretty decent size.。
And you'll go inside of them, they're usually always open.。
Most of these town or village churches。
would have beautiful wooden pews,。
beautiful paintings around the walls,。
some iconography, crosses, lots of candles burning.。
Maybe they seat anywhere from say 70 to 80 to 100 people.。
And these were beautiful places as well.。
But also in the more rural parts of the Camino,。
in places where you're kind of not anywhere near a town。
or a village or a big urban center,。
where you've been walking perhaps for hours。
in a very quiet rural place,。
you might stumble across what I guess you would say。
would be an old rural church.。
Probably one that's not been used for a while.。
Maybe it's been derelict for a number of years.。
You can kind of tell because it's a building。
that's literally practically falling apart.。
Maybe the church roof might have holes in it。
and maybe there's lots of growth around it。
in terms of weeds and the plants and trees around it.。
And these things look run down.。
But these were the churches that I liked the most.。
Because these were churches that were rarely visited,。
not many people would go in them.。
And I would find these rural churches,。
I would go inside and I would be the only person in there.。
And I'd probably be the only person in there。
for 20, 30 minutes.。
And I would sit there and just read and pray。
and think and reflect.。
And I found like in the busyness of the Camino,。
which is a very social and busy thing,。
it was so nice to have these kind of run down,。
derelict, abandoned, if you will, churches。
to go and spend time in, in prayer and solitude.。
Well, on this one particular day,。
maybe about seven or so days before the end of my walk,。
I was cresting up a hill in a very rural area.。
I'd just come through some farmland。
and I crested up this hill.。
And as I did so, to the right of me。
was one of these run down, derelict church buildings.。
It was just a small little building。
that was behind a stone wall and tucked into these trees.。
And it looked quite dramatic.。
So I took a photo of it.。
It's this little kind of stone hut type thing right here.。
And I looked at it and it didn't look particularly。
like anyone had been in there for a long time.。
It was behind this stone wall.。
But I decided I was gonna go in and pray.。
So I took off my backpack and put it down.。
And I climbed, kind of scrambled over the stone wall.。
And I walked into this derelict building.。
Inside, I didn't know what I was expecting to see,。
but I was expecting to see a lot more than I did.。
Inside, it was pretty much abandoned and kind of run down.。
And there was really nothing there.。
In fact, I took a photo of it.。
So here's what it looked like on the inside.。
It was just this kind of concrete, cold building.。
There were no pews.。
There was just this concrete altar at the front.。
There was this old wooden cross on the wall.。
You could tell that the rain and the wind had seeped in a lot。
and there was like dew and mold all over the place.。
And it was kind of a bit smelly。
and it just wasn't a very nice particular place.。
And after about five minutes in there,。
I was feeling kind of creepy。
and like I didn't wanna be in there.。
So I just prayed a really quick prayer,。
maybe like a couple of minutes.。
And then I moved on, got my backpack。
and kept on walking along the path.。
I walked about another five kilometers.。
And by then I was like, I think I'm done for the day.。
I'm pretty comfortable.。
I've walked quite a long way today.。
And I came to this village with this big church.。
And the church was actually quite well known。
for welcoming pilgrims in.。
And you could sleep on the floor of the church。
for a very small donation.。
So for around about like three or four euros,。
you could do a little donation。
and you could sleep on a mat on the floor,。
the cold floor of the church.。
But the reason why people would go and do it。
is because there were these monks that ran that church.。
And the monks were famous for their cooking.。
And every night they would cook a communal meal.。
And if you're a pilgrim,。
you're starving by the end of the day.。
And this idea of these monks cooking you a meal。
is like super cool.。
So I went in, I paid my three or four euro donation.。
I had my little mats on the stone floor of the church.。
And then that evening, of course,。
they cooked this incredible meal and we sat down.。
I sat down next to this man and I got chatting with him。
and his English was pretty good.。
And we got chatting together.。
And it turned out that he was the local priest。
of the local parish of that area.。
Now, I didn't tell him I was a pastor or anything like that,。
but it was fascinating to talk to this guy。
who was this priest of this area.。
And as we were talking and stuff, I was like,。
oh, you never guess what, earlier today,。
as I was walking here, I came across this rundown,。
abandoned, derelict church.。
And I got my phone out and I showed him these two photos.。
And as I did, his eyes lit up.。
He's like, that's my church.。
I'm like, what?。
He's like, yeah, that's my church.。
I said, you mean this one is your church?。
I said, you look after this church?。
You are not doing a good job。
of looking after your church, okay?。
This thing smells, it's rundown, it's damp.。
Don't worry, I didn't say that to him.。
But that was what I was thinking on the inside.。
That was my inside voice。
that luckily I kept inside in that moment.。
But I'm thinking like, that's crazy.。
And I said, well, tell me about this church.。
He's like, yeah, yeah, yeah.。
Well, so each Sunday, he's like, I prepare a sermon.。
And then me and my dog,。
we walk the five kilometers to this church.。
And he says, we go in there.。
And he says, look, on some Sundays,。
there is a revival and maybe five people come.。
I'm like, five people?。
He's like, yeah, yeah, yeah.。
Some Sundays we get five people.。
He's like, so excited.。
And he's like, but often what would happen is,。
on most Sundays, it's just me and my dog.。
And then he says, on half of those Sundays,。
my dog doesn't even bother to come with me, it's just me.。
And he says, I prepare a sermon every Sunday。
and I show up there.。
And if somebody comes, then I share my sermon with them.。
And we do the pastor or the priestly rites.。
But if no one comes, then I just sit there and pray.。
I'm like, you do this every Sunday?。
He's like, yeah, every Sunday, I prepare a message,。
go there, if someone shows up, great.。
If not, I just sit and pray.。
I said, how long have you been serving in this church?。
He said, and this is literally what he said.。
He said, oh, not too long.。
He said, about 38 years.。
I said, what?。
I said, what do you mean?。
He's like, yeah, about 38 years, he said.。
I said, you've been serving this church for 38 years。
and you prepare a sermon every Sunday.。
And on the majorities of Sundays, no one shows up?。
Well, we got talking about other things。
and kind of the evening went away.。
But I remember like that night as I'm lying。
on the cold stone floor in my little mat,。
I remember thinking to myself this, man, what a waste.。
Like I'm sure this guy is like a really nice guy.。
He was nice, he was funny, he was a good communicator.。
I was like, I'm sure he preaches great sermons.。
Like what a waste of his gifts。
and what a waste of his talents.。
It must be so frustrating for him。
to feel like such a failure.。
I remember lying there thinking like,。
I need to pray for this guy, you know?。
I need to pray that real revival comes。
and that his church becomes a success, right?。
And so I committed myself that night,。
I'm gonna pray for this guy.。
I'm gonna pray every, the rest of my days of walking,。
I'm gonna remember him and pray for him.。
The next morning we woke up and we rolled our mats up。
and the priest gave us hugs and wished us all the best。
and we started walking on the path of the Camino。
for the next day.。
And as I did, I fell into prayer at some point。
and as I fell into prayer,。
I thought of this man straightaway, this priest,。
and I was about to start my prayer.。
You know, Lord, just bless this man.。
He must be so over things.。
He must be like feeling like such a failure,。
Lord, fill him with your love, you know?。
Like I had the best prayer ever for this guy, right?。
As I'm beginning to pray for him,。
you know like those times when you're praying。
and like God shows up, right?。
Anyone ever experienced that?。
No?。
You know like when you pray, God comes and shows up。
and it's like part of your prayer, anyway.。
So I'm praying and God shows up and he shows up。
and he's like typical like, like he slaps me,。
like metaphorically slaps me, okay, across my face.。
Like and immediately I knew it was like。
one of those moments where the Lord was not happy with me。
and where I realized that there was something going on。
in my attitude or my thinking that wasn't quite right.。
And so he began to speak to me and I took out my phone。
and I started to write down as I often do。
and I feel like God's speaking to me,。
writing down kind of things he was saying。
and it wasn't easy what he said.。
Let me read it to you.。
He said this.。
He said, "Andrew, you need to redefine。
"what you think is successful in ministry and what is not.。
"Your attitude is wrong and your thinking flawed.。
"I have not called you to be successful,。
"I have called you to be faithful.。
"And last night I put beside you one of my favorite examples。
"of this kind of success in my kingdom.。
"You were fortunate to be in his presence."。
Which was deeply challenging to me。
because I thought he was fortunate to be in my presence.。
'Cause I'm a great pastor of a big church in Hong Kong。
and we have lots of people come on a Sunday.。
And I thought this guy needs to learn a few tips and tricks,。
how to get the people back with great stories.。
But I was the one fortunate to be in his presence.。
And it was almost like I was in his presence.。
And it was almost like God was saying,。
"I'm looking down, Andrew, on you and this guy.。
"And if you were to judge success in the kingdom。
"in worldly perspectives, then yeah,。
"you're doing a great job.。
"But if you actually wanna judge your ministry。
"by the successful standards of the kingdom,。
"this man is the one you need to be spending time with.。
"Because I don't look at things the way that the world does.。
"And this one is faithful."。
As we continue to think about what it is for us。
as a church community in this season。
to move into uncharted territory and uncharted waters.。
We've been saying in this series。
that we've been doing here at the Vine。
that this whole series on Acts is about。
how do we posture our hearts。
for the season that's ahead of us.。
And if God is taking us into uncharted waters,。
we have to realize that right at the start,。
we need to redefine for ourselves。
what success is gonna mean for us in this season.。
And if we don't redefine for us what success means,。
then we're gonna head into an uncharted season。
and into uncharted waters,。
thinking that we know what we want God to do。
or what we think will define for us what success is.。
And when that may not happen,。
we'll walk out of this season feeling deflated and upset.。
And actually there is so much here。
that I think we have to realize。
is that we so often hold on to a worldly perspective。
of what success is,。
whether that's for the church communally,。
whether that's for you individually,。
and particularly here in Hong Kong,。
we so drive ourselves by that thinking。
of what we think success should look like。
when actually when it comes to the kingdom of God,。
it's anything but.。
It's like a procession of death。
getting actually met with the true procession of life.。
If I was to put it as simply as I could,。
I would say it this way.。
I would say that if we really wanna be the people in Hong Kong。
who are ready to move when the Holy Spirit speaks,。
we will have to release the pressure to succeed。
with the priority to be faithful.。
Come on, church.。
We will need to release the pressure。
that we feel all the time in this city。
to be successful, defined by however that might be,。
and we will need to embrace the priority。
to put in our lives a priority to be faithful。
to whatever it is that God has called us to do。
over and above looking successful。
in how the world might deem that and look at that and say.。
Not that there's nothing wrong with achieving things.。
Not that there's nothing wrong with doing well。
and getting promoted and having a good life。
and having a great job.。
There's nothing at all wrong with that stuff.。
The problem is though,。
in the terms of how we often think of what success looks like。
in the corporate world or just the world that's out there,。
when we take that and apply that to God's kingdom,。
it's like trying to put a square peg in a round hole.。
And while there's nothing wrong。
with a sense of worldly success in our lives,。
where we want to be found is faithful.。
And what we have to understand。
is that sometimes a commitment to faithfulness。
will actually look very different。
to what worldly success looks like.。
In fact, I would define it like this.。
I would say success in God's kingdom。
is not found in the abundance of achievement,。
it's found in the faithfulness of obedience.。
It's not found in the abundance。
of the things that we achieve in life.。
It's actually found in just being faithful。
to the small thing perhaps。
that God has asked us to be obedient to.。
During Vision Sunday, back at the beginning of March,。
as I kicked off this season of Unchartedness with us,。
I shared about that picture of an early pioneer boat.。
Remember this, the pioneers, the early settlers。
that would get on a boat and they would push off。
and they'd be going out in search of new lands,。
lands that have never been discovered before,。
where there were no maps or anything for the waters。
in which they were sailing into.。
And they would go with that mixture。
of excitement and nervousness.。
And I shared on that Sunday the picture。
of like the captain who's leaning forward。
in the bow with the telescope,。
looking out towards where the new lands might be.。
But then all these other sailors on the ship。
who are each doing their own little part on the ship。
so in order the boat to go in the direction。
that the captain actually wants the boat to go in.。
One of the things I didn't share that Sunday though。
is in the days of the early settlers。
when they were sending out these boats,。
the majority of the boats would go out。
and come back having discovered nothing.。
Maybe they had two months of supplies on the boat。
when they set out from port.。
And at the critical time,。
they realized that if they kept going,。
they would all die 'cause their stuff would run out.。
So they have to turn around and go back to harbor。
before anybody else would starve.。
So they had to make these judgment calls all the time.。
And the majority of the boats that went out。
would return having discovered nothing.。
Can you imagine if you were in the boat,。
if you were one of those sailors。
who had gone out for two months and had found nothing。
and came back to the harbor empty handed,。
you'd be feeling upset, you'd be feeling frustrated.。
You didn't achieve the thing。
that you were hoping to achieve.。
We gotta be very careful。
and we have to think about this really importantly.。
For us at the Vine is we're launching out。
into uncharted waters.。
The temptation for us is going to be。
always to discover the land.。
As if like the whole purpose of setting out。
is to discover this thing out there.。
I want you to know this,。
when God calls a church into uncharted seasons,。
He is not promising the spectacular.。
He's not promising that there's gonna be。
suddenly something amazing up ahead.。
There may be, there may not be,。
the promise, the focus for us。
is not on what we might achieve.。
The focus is if we're being faithful。
in what He's asked us to do.。
We saw this beautifully last week。
when promise preached on Ananias and Paul.。
And when we saw Ananias, right?。
Who God calls him to go to Paul,。
but God doesn't give him how it's all gonna turn out.。
He doesn't say, "Hey, this is all gonna go well for you.。
"Everything's gonna be great.。
"You're gonna be fine.。
"I know he's scary and he's been killing people like you,。
"but don't worry."。
God didn't reassure him of any of that。
like promise said last week.。
But what Ananias was called to do was to go.。
And Ananias was faithful to go.。
And if we, as we start this season as a church,。
are kind of saying,。
well, we're only gonna go if it's worth it.。
We're only gonna go if we're gonna discover。
the thing that God has for us.。
We're only gonna go out there。
if that's the way.。
In other words, if we become outcome focused,。
what we've done is we've put ourselves。
like the captain in the bow。
rather than putting ourselves in the heart of the ship.。
Our role is not the captain.。
That is Jesus.。
Jesus is the one who, as we head out into the unknown,。
he's the one steering the ship。
by the power of the Holy Spirit,。
telling us where to go.。
And we, our concern is not the eventual outcome of that.。
Our concern is are we doing and steering the ship。
in the direction he wants us to?。
Is this making sense to you?。
As soon as we start over focusing。
and over emphasizing on what's out there,。
we'll end up standing on the deck of the boat,。
staring out into the horizon。
and not steering the ship at all.。
Success and failure are words reserved for the captain.。
The words reserved for us is faithfulness.。
Faithfulness is what the servants do.。
When Jesus says, "Come and follow me,"。
he's inviting us into a journey of being found faithful.。
And while there may be for some of us in this room。
in the season ahead, amazing, spectacular, incredible things。
and of course we believe and hope and pray。
that that will be the case for some of us,。
the reality is for many of us in this season of Uncharted,。
there may not be the dramatic around the corner.。
But whether there is or there isn't,。
God looks and he turns to you and says,。
"Here's what I call of you.。
"Here's what I require of you.。
"Here's what I'm asking of you.。
"That the very small thing。
"that I've already placed in your hands,。
"the very thing that to everybody else。
"might seem everyday, might seem ordinary,。
"might even seem mundane, that's the thing.。
"That through hundreds and thousands of people。
"who commit to the daily following of Jesus,。
"the faithfulness in the small things,。
"God then does the big thing."。
And this invitation to us is so important and so profound。
because it's an invitation to life,。
which seems so counterintuitive。
to what the world might try to tell us.。
Life is found in the abundance of bigger and better.。
The kingdom says life is found。
in the simple small sacrifices of being found faithful.。
Like a priest who prepares a sermon every Sunday。
even though he has no people in his church.。
Or like a parent who has faithfully prayed。
for their adult child to come to Jesus,。
but year after year it seems like that child。
is just getting further and further away.。
Like the small business owner。
who's faithfully making sacrificial decisions。
that no one will ever know。
in order to ensure that the business。
would be able to stay afloat in a tough market.。
The day by day faithful decisions。
of what God has put in our hands.。
When we live like that,。
God says you are lucky to be in that person's presence.。
What I love about the book of Acts,。
which we've been studying in this series,。
is that the book of Acts。
is not actually how it appears when you read it.。
The book of Acts as Luke presents it。
of course is presenting this story。
of these incredible men。
who are almost like super apostles, right?。
The ones that do amazing things.。
People like Peter and Paul and Barnabas and Silas and James.。
These great early leaders of the church.。
And Luke as he's presenting the work of the early church,。
he's highlighting the amazing things。
that these great people do in the faith.。
And when we read the book of Acts,。
it's tempting for us to kind of think。
that the reason why the church in Acts,。
the early church, grew to such power and prominence。
is because only of these amazing few。
that do such great things.。
But actually dig a little bit below the surface。
in the book of Acts and you'll realize。
that the thing that actually grew and sustained the church。
wasn't the big amazing super apostles,。
it was those in the towns and the villages。
who were a part of the church。
who day in, day out built God's church.。
The unknown, the unmentioned.。
Did you know that one of the most prominent churches。
in the whole of the time period that Acts covers。
is the church in Antioch?。
It's the church where people were called Christians。
for the very first time。
because of the way that they were living their lives.。
That church was not founded by any of the apostles.。
We don't even know the names of the people。
that founded the church,。
but that church was the most prominent church。
in all of the book of Acts,。
founded by a bunch of people。
who will never know their names,。
but they were found faithful.。
Every once in a while, as Luke is presenting。
the story of these amazing apostles and what they did,。
he drops into the narrative a glimpse。
of some of these kind of not known,。
not really celebrated, kind of know nothing type people。
who because of their faithfulness。
do something truly profound.。
And I wanna share one of those stories with you.。
It's an apostle by the name of Jason.。
So he's not an apostle.。
It's a person by the name of Jason.。
And Jason lives in a town called Thessalonica.。
And Thessalonica was one of the towns。
that Paul and Silas came to。
in the middle of their second missionary journey.。
And during this journey,。
they visited a whole bunch of places。
and they come to the city of Thessalonica.。
And in Thessalonica, Paul and Silas do。
what they would always do in their missionary journey,。
and that is go to the synagogue。
and start to share Jesus with the Jews living。
or are a part of the synagogue there.。
And as they do that, things begin to happen in the city.。
And I wanna pick up the story from that point.。
So this is Acts 17, starting in verse four.。
Some of the Jews were persuaded by Paul and Silas。
in their presentation of the gospel。
and joined Paul and Silas,。
as did a large number of God-fearing Greeks。
and not a few prominent women.。
But the Jews were jealous.。
So they rounded up some bad characters from the marketplace,。
formed a mob and started a riot in the city.。
They rushed to Jason's house in search of Paul and Silas。
in order to bring them out to the crowd.。
This is the first time we hear of this person, Jason.。
And here's what takes place.。
We don't get any backstory about Jason whatsoever.。
Luke doesn't give us any details.。
But because we understand a little bit。
about how the churches were formed。
and how the church was run at that time,。
we can make some pretty good guesses。
about the sort of person Jason was.。
First of all, he had obviously had enough wealth。
whereby he had a home that was large enough。
to have people like Paul and Silas and others。
come and stay and live with him.。
That wasn't a given.。
So he's a man of relative successful career background。
and a bit of finance.。
We also know of course, that he's a believer in Jesus.。
And it's very likely that he was already a believer。
before Paul and Silas showed up.。
Paul and Silas did not found the church in Thessalonica.。
The church was already active and going.。
It's possible, we don't know,。
but it's possible that Jason was one of the people。
on the church in Jerusalem.。
And that when persecution came to Jerusalem in 70 AD。
and the church spread out into the Greek Roman Empire,。
a number of the believers ended up settling in Thessalonica.。
So whether that was Jason or not,。
we know that he settled in this village, in this town, sorry.。
And as he settled in this town,。
he starts what we can assume is a church in his home.。
We can assume this because when the mob。
are searching for Paul and Silas,。
they choose to go to Jason's house and looking for him.。
In other words, they must have known that Jason。
was holding or hosting some sort of Christian community。
in his home in Thessalonica.。
So peel back the curtain for a sec.。
Here's Jason and he's kind of like a nobody.。
He's done well in business, he's made some money.。
He's come to faith at some point in his life。
through some way and he started running a church。
in his home.。
Now that church is gonna be small.。
I mean, Thessalonica was hostile to the gospel.。
It was a hard place for people who believed in Jesus.。
So maybe there were five people at the church,。
maybe there were 10 people, 15,。
we don't know the numbers at all.。
But it's a little bit like my priest in the Camino.。
Jason faithfully preparing a message every week。
to sit with the people that were coming to his house。
to hold onto the hope that this Jesus。
was actually the Messiah in the middle。
of the Greco-Roman Empire.。
But then one day something amazing happens.。
One day all of Jason and the church's prayers were answered。
'cause they had been praying that God would send them。
some success.。
They had been praying that God would do something special。
in their city and now Paul and Silas has shown up.。
Paul, the apostle Paul, the one that everybody。
had heard stories about who was persecuting the church。
and then came into this dramatic encounter with Jesus。
and was now powerfully doing miracles for God。
in the Greco-Roman Empire.。
He's now shown up in Thessalonica.。
And you can imagine for Jason and his little house church,。
they're like so excited.。
Finally, success is gonna come for our ministry.。
Finally, people are gonna come to faith.。
And Luke says to us that actually some success does come.。
Some of the Jews come to faith in the synagogue,。
some prominent women come to faith, which is great.。
A large number of Greek people begin to believe in Jesus.。
And so there's this mini sort of revival taking place。
and Jason must be so excited about this。
and then something happens.。
Notice in verse six, it says this,。
"But when they did not find them,"。
this is the crowd looking for Paul and Silas,。
"they dragged Jason and some other brothers。
"before the city officials and shouted,。
"'These men have caused trouble all over the world。
"'and have now come here,'。
"and Jason has welcomed them into his house.。
"They are all defying Caesar's decrees,。
"saying that there is another king, one called Jesus."。
Jason's life has just become a nightmare.。
What he thought was revival,。
what he thought was a definition。
of what success would look like,。
suddenly, because they can't find Paul and Silas,。
he's dragged before the courts.。
He's dragged before the very people。
had the power to sentence him to death.。
And when he's dragged in front of them,。
notice what happens.。
They begin to accuse Jason。
of what they were accusing Paul and Silas of.。
They can't find Paul and Silas,。
so they have to find somebody to take the heat,。
somebody to take the punishment。
for the crime that they had for Paul and Silas.。
And so Jason and the brothers in his church。
are the ones who begin to take the punishment,。
who are the ones accused of doing the things。
that Paul and Silas were doing,。
even though they hadn't done them.。
And they're accused and they're brought before the court。
and the punishment is being given to them。
rather than Paul and Silas.。
It's like Jason is now having to stand in the gap。
on behalf of Paul and Silas,。
and he's the one being slandered.。
He's the one being told he's a criminal.。
He's the one who's being punished。
for what's happening in the city.。
Not only that, but notice what happens next in verse eight.。
It says this.。
It says, "When they heard this,。
"the crowd and the whole city officials。
"were thrown into turmoil.。
"Then they made Jason and the others post bond。
"and let them go."。
This phrase, post bond.。
This is a really interesting thing。
that happened in those days.。
What would happen is that you get dragged before the court,。
you get accused of all these crimes.。
You're supposed to have the punishment for those crimes,。
but you could pay a extortionately high price,。
spend money to buy yourself out of that punishment.。
To basically buy, to pay the price。
so that that punishment no longer applies。
to Paul and Silas.。
So this is quite profound because now Jason。
is not only suffering on their behalf,。
being accused for what they should have been accused for,。
he's now paying the price so that they can go free.。
And that price was a high price.。
It was a very extortionate amount of money.。
And most people didn't pay it。
'cause it was so stupidly expensive,。
and therefore you'd have to suffer under punishment.。
But somehow Jason and his brothers get this money together.。
They pay the bond price so that Paul and Silas。
could go free.。
Think about this.。
I wonder if that reminds you of anyone.。
I wonder if that reminds you of someone called Jesus。
in Jerusalem who's himself arrested。
and put on trial for crimes that he didn't commit.。
Who is put before trial before all the people,。
slandered for things that he had not done,。
silent before those that were accusing him.。
And one who eventually is taken to the cross。
and nailed to that cross,。
having to pay the high bond price。
so that those, you and me, who should have been punished。
are now set free.。
Interesting, isn't it?。
That in the Christian faith,。
the greatest symbol of hope and life, the cross of Jesus,。
is actually by its very definition,。
the antithesis of success in the world's eyes.。
In fact, the cross looks like failure.。
It looks like everything didn't work out.。
In fact, it looks so much that way。
that the people in the world were mocking and laughing.。
Call yourself the king of the Jews.。
You can't even save yourself.。
But actually, when God looks at the cross of Jesus,。
God looks at it with a different definition of success.。
And he looks down on his son Jesus。
and he says, "This one has remained faithful.。
"This one has been faithful。
"to the things that I had called him to do."。
Oh, there was that time in the Mount of Olives。
when he wrestled.。
Oh Lord, if you could take this cup from me, please take it.。
"But your will be done," Jesus says.。
And when God looks at the cross of Jesus,。
he sees the most successful thing。
that has ever happened in the kingdom.。
Somebody who was so faithful。
that he was willing to forgive all of the world's sin,。
that the bond price was paid by his blood。
so that everybody else would go free.。
The cross is this beautiful picture, powerful picture,。
of what success looks like in God's kingdom.。
One man who is found faithful.。
So now here's Jason.。
Jason, who was thinking success was gonna look like this,。
and there was a little bit of that。
looking like it was happening.。
But then is suddenly brought to his own moment of the cross。
and Jason having to walk the very same path。
that Jesus walked on behalf of Paul and Silas.。
I don't know about you, but if I was Jason,。
I would have been very tempted。
to be a little bit like Judas,。
to say to the magistrate,。
"Hey guys, okay, you couldn't find him in my home.。
"That's 'cause I know where he is.。
"In fact, if you let me go,。
"if you follow me, we'll go to the marketplace.。
"The man that I go up to and kiss, that man's Paul."。
He could have taken the Judas route.。
I think Jason could have also taken the Peter route.。
He could have gone, "I don't know Paul and Silas.。
"I don't know who they are.。
"Pfft, who, Paul and Silas?。
"I don't know Paul and Silas.。
"Do you know Paul and Silas?。
"Oh, we don't know Paul and Silas."。
Right, he could have denied even knowing Paul and Silas.。
I think Jason had a lot of outs.。
He had a lot of ways that he could handle this.。
He didn't have to spend all his money。
to pay the bond price so that they could go free.。
But here's Jason, a nobody,。
running a small church in the city of Thessalonica,。
a city hostile to the faith.。
He decides, "Even if it's gonna cost me,。
"I'm gonna be found faithful."。
And so he makes small decisions。
that have big ramifications.。
Now, here's the other interesting thing.。
The narrative, Luke writing the story,。
suddenly that night, Paul and Silas,。
they flee Thessalonica,。
and Luke follows now Paul and Silas' story again.。
And the spotlight shifts away from Jason and Thessalonica。
to Paul and Silas, and the next thing they do,。
the next great place they go to,。
and the next great miracle they do,。
here's the thing, though.。
Jason remained behind.。
Oh, we don't hear this story.。
This story's not told us in the book of Acts,。
but if you dig a little bit below and have a think about it,。
Jason remained in Thessalonica.。
I mean, he remained there.。
He had nowhere else to go.。
He wasn't off on some great crusade.。
He was the one who just spent all his money。
to enable Paul and Silas to go.。
He was the one whose reputation has now been slandered,。
and he's the one who's got to now live in the very town。
where he's become famous for all the wrong reasons.。
He's the one who's gonna have to now suffer。
day in, day out for the faithfulness。
that he's shown to the kingdom of God.。
Now, we don't know because Luke doesn't tell us,。
but a number of years later when Paul is in prison,。
and he's thinking, how do I leave a legacy?。
What are the churches I need to reach out to and encourage?。
He writes two letters to the church of Thessalonica,。
one and two Thessalonians that we have in our scriptures.。
So something happened through the faithfulness of Jason。
that would grow to such an extent。
that Paul eventually would write these letters。
to the church to encourage them and inspire them.。
The church didn't die out.。
The church thrived because one man was faithful.。
The vine itself has been built over some 30 years now。
by men and women that have been incredibly faithful.。
This church has not grown just because。
there's been a few people with a gift。
who have stood on a stage or a platform in the spotlight。
and done something.。
This church has grown and has done what it's done。
in our city in the humble ways that we have。
off the back of hundreds of Jasons over the years.。
Paul and Silas needed Jasons in their ministry.。
The vines needed them in ours.。
Let me introduce you just briefly。
to two of those Jasons in our midst.。
This is Auntie Hing and Auntie Heng.。
Auntie Hing and Auntie Heng may not be familiar to you,。
particularly here at the two o'clock。
when we don't have children's ministry available,。
but Auntie Hing and Auntie Heng have run the creche。
at our church pretty much every Sunday for 30 years。
here at the vine.。
For almost 30 years, these two ladies。
have served our creche ministry at the vine.。
They have sat and looked after the youngest。
of the children of our church for almost 30 years.。
If you've been coming to the vine for any period of time。
and you've had a young child, a toddler or below,。
here at the vine, these ladies have looked after your child.。
These were the ladies that spoke faith into your children。
before anyone else did.。
These were the ones who never did it for spotlight,。
fame, never did it so that we'd put their photo。
up in front of everybody.。
In fact, when we told them we were doing this,。
they ran away.。
But for 30 years, Jesus would say to us at the vine,。
we were fortunate to be in their presence.。
These two lovely ladies have just resigned.。
They've come off of our staff now.。
We took this photo just a few weeks ago。
as we were celebrating them for their years of service.。
They've both resigned and they're retiring。
and they're wanting to spend more time with their families。
and do a bit of traveling to visit their families overseas.。
We honor them, we bless them.。
I think when the Lord looks at these two women,。
he says like he did at the end of the parable。
of the talents, well done, my good and faithful servants.。
You are faithful in the small things.。
Now come and share in your master's happiness.。
And how about for you?。
How is it that you are being called to be faithful?。
What is it that God has put into your hands?。
What are some of the small things that he has blessed。
and given to you and challenged you with?。
We often say here at the vine。
that large doors swing on small hinges.。
And this church is filled with these incredibly small hinges。
like me and you.。
People who have been tasked by God to do one thing,。
something, and maybe it's a small thing in our eyes,。
but you need to understand this,。
that the small things for us are not small for God.。
In his eyes, it's actually those things。
that become the moment by which our souls are shaped。
and we're able to see the value of the kingdom of God。
and the treasures that are within it.。
That's the beauty of the small things,。
our faithful commitment to that.。
And perhaps as we start this season,。
we need to resist a little bit of that desire we have。
for the bigger and the greater and the better。
and actually realize that the one small thing。
that everybody else might think is nothing much at all.。
As we remain faithful to that,。
God can lead us where he wants to lead us.。
It was of course Mother Teresa。
who said that famous thing, didn't she?。
"Not all of us get to do great things,。
"but all of us can do small things with great love."。
And I think that in many ways is the heart。
of what this passage around Jason is all about.。
A man who did small things but with great love.。
Love for his city, love for Paul and Silas,。
love for the gospel.。
And as we think about us beginning this journey。
that's ahead of us,。
what are some of these small things that we can do?。
In that evening when I was having dinner with the priest,。
I asked him at one point, I said,。
"Have you ever felt like giving up?"。
Which seemed like a reasonable question。
to ask a man who was pastoring a church。
without any people in it.。
And I asked him the question,。
he stood there or sat there。
and just kind of thought about it for a bit。
and he said these beautiful words.。
He said, "Let me be honest with you."。
He said, "There have been many times。
"when I've asked the Father why.。
"Why does it appear that there's not a lot of fruit。
"in my ministry?。
"But I've come to tell over the years。
"that God very rarely answers the whys of life."。
He said, "In fact, the why is his concern, but not mine."。
He said, "My concern is the thing he's asked me to do。
"and that I will not give up on."。
There's a moment in the Old Testament。
where God calls Nehemiah to rebuild the walls。
around Jerusalem.。
It's this beautiful thing that God asks Nehemiah to do.。
And as a leader of Israel at the time,。
it was an incredibly hard project.。
And you can look through his story。
to see how many times he wanted to let it go,。
how many times he faced opposition,。
how many times it cost him dearly。
to see through that project.。
And there's this one point where Nehemiah is so worn down。
by the challenges and the opposition。
that he actually turns to God and he says this,。
"Lord, I cannot do this on my own."。
So he says, "Strengthen my hands."。
In other words, I wanna be found faithful,。
but I know that this is such a challenging time.。
There's so much criticism, so much attack.。
I feel so worn down.。
I don't think I can do it on my own strength.。
So he turns to God and he says, "Strengthen my hands。
"'cause you put something in these hands.。
"And you put something in these hands。
"that you're calling me to be faithful to。
"and I need your help.。
"So would you strengthen my hands?"。
Every single person in this room,。
God has placed something in your hands.。
Sometimes when you compare it with others,。
you think what you've got in your hand is nothing.。
God doesn't look at that.。
He doesn't compare things like that.。
He looks at you and says, "I've placed that in your hand.。
"I've placed that in your hand.。
"I've placed that in your hand.。
"I've placed that in your hand."。
And here's the mere definition of success.。
Here's when God will look over you and say,。
"Well done, my good and faithful servant."。
He'll just say, "Have you been faithful?。
"Have you just been faithful。
"with that little thing I put in your hand?"。
And if you're feeling like you're about to give up,。
simple prayer, "Strengthen my hands."。
Can I pray for you for that?。
I wonder whether you would stand with me。
and let's just come before the Lord together as a community.。
Maybe as you just quieten your heart before him.。
Perhaps you are like me many times in my ministry,。
in my life,。
where you felt like turning around, giving up.。
For some of you, maybe it's a relationship.。
Maybe there's been a really challenging relationship。
in your life and maybe for some of you, it's your marriage.。
Maybe it's a relationship with a boss。
or maybe it's a family member。
and you're so tempted to give up on it.。
Some of you have been praying for your children。
to come to faith and you're so, so close to giving up.。
Some of you have been trying really hard in something。
and you felt like you'd been faithful and you have been.。
And it feels like that there's no fruit,。
just like that priest on the Camino.。
He must have many times said, "Why do I even bother?"。
It's easy for us, I think at times,。
because faithfulness is a counter-cultural call.。
We're living in a day and age now。
where faithfulness is not cool.。
Actually, the cool thing is,。
is to change your job every three seconds.。
The cool thing is not to actually put roots down.。
The cool thing is to be fancy free,。
just to travel and do whatever you want.。
The cool thing is to give up.。
The cool thing is to just let go.。
The cool thing is to not be tied down.。
But the Bible says is that the kingdom of God。
is against the pressures and the spirits of this age.。
Perhaps for some of us in this room,。
there's a fear of commitment.。
There's a fear of staying the course.。
And I wanna speak over you。
that the Lord is calling for His church。
and He's saying, "Will I find it faithful?"。
And so I wanna pray over you here this afternoon.。
If this is resonating for you,。
if you realize that there are some challenges。
in this space for you,。
if you feel like you're exhausted and worn out,。
you wanna give up,。
if you feel like running in the other direction,。
totally understandably I know,。
'cause I feel like that many times too.。
I wonder whether you just open your hands before you,。
just in the quietness of this moment。
and whilst all our eyes are closed.。
And by opening your hands in front of you,。
you're just opening your hands。
and you're gonna say that prayer that Nehemiah prayed.。
Lord, would you strengthen these hands?。
I feel like giving up.。
I feel like turning away.。
I feel like not sticking the course.。
It's been difficult.。
It's been hard.。
The Lord knows the pain that you've been through.。
The Lord sees that pain and He loves you。
and He knows it's not easy.。
There's Jason before the people, paying the bond price.。
Christ on the cross, the ultimate price paid。
for the glory of our forgiveness and freedom.。
And I believe in this time,。
He's looking for a church that's faithful,。
not a church that's successful,。
not at least in terms of how the world defines it.。
So Lord, I wanna pray for the men and women。
in this room right now whose hands are open before you.。
I wanna pray by the power of the Spirit。
and the hope that there is and the procession of life。
that comes against every procession of death.。
And Lord, anyone in this room who's worn out, tired,。
who's struggled to stay the course,。
Lord, we wanna pray right now, strengthen their hands.。
In the name of Jesus, we pray, strengthen their hands.。
Lord, whether that's for work,。
whether that's for marriages,。
whether it's for relationships,。
whether it's for their relationship with you,。
whatever part of their life that resonates with,。
but Lord, I wanna pray that you would strengthen them。
for the course that you have set them, Lord.。
I wanna pray that whether they see breakthrough or not,。
they would say, the Lord has asked of me this one thing,。
and I will be found faithful,。
that I have a heart and a desire and a hunger,。
no matter what it might cost,。
no matter how challenging it might be,。
I wanna be successful in the eyes of the kingdom,。
even if that means failure in the eyes of the world,。
strengthen our hands, Lord.。
Strengthen your hands of your church, Lord.。
And I wanna pray that joy would be released,。
that Lord, it might not be easy,。
the path that might be ahead,。
uncharted waters don't guarantee us an easy time,。
but I wanna pray for joy in the journey, Lord.。
Just like that priest who was so,。
his eyes lit up when he saw an empty church,。
I pray these people's eyes would light up。
as they stay faithful to what you've placed in their hands.。
And we pray this in Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
