[MUSIC]。
Imagine with me for a moment, a church.。
This is not a church in the singular, on its own and distinct,。
but a church in the plural, united across a nation, joined in purpose,。
focused on building up God's kingdom, one life at a time.。
It is a church that has at the heart of its DNA,。
the grand narrative of the redemptive story of Jesus Christ,。
and that celebrates in the freedom and grace that such a story brings.。
This church is not constricted by the walls of a building,。
but actively engaged in the community it is planted in,。
desiring for God's kingdom to take root and bear fruit in local soil.。
A church that sees salvation as holistic,。
transforming God's people for God's work,。
and equipping a generation to represent God's heart。
to the poor, the weak, the oppressed, and the persecuted.。
Imagine this church committed to seeing the family as integral。
to all that it's called to be and do,。
involving intentional, committed, and authentic relationships across all levels.。
It is the sort of place where both the young and the old feel cared for,。
supported and equipped.。
A church where people of all backgrounds and traditions come to feel at home,。
a cultural mosaic that honors and embraces a richness in diversity。
that marks us as the body of Christ.。
It is a church that is willing to innovate and express faith creatively,。
reflecting the boundless limits of God's creativity as glory to Him.。
A place where people gather, hungry for the presence of God,。
and passionate to see this invade all aspects of their lives,。
where they seek to develop an intelligent, spiritual faith,。
rooted in God's Word and driven with prayer.。
A church that does not make its Sunday services the exclamation mark of its existence,。
but instead the comma in its ongoing sentence,。
a time of service, love, and engagement。
that inspires and emboldens all equally for the conversation that lies ahead.。
A church that cares, disciples, rebuilds, renews.。
This is our city.。
This is our church.。
This is our home.。
Good morning everyone. How are you doing?。
It's one week to Christmas and you see the weather, it's finally right.。
We're finally in the right kind of weather, right?。
Yeah, okay. Some of you enjoy it, I can see a few of you.。
The others are like, "Oh, it's too cold, it's too cold."。
So if you feel it's too cold today, I hope you would enjoy the embrace of God in the house here today.。
All right, why don't we stand? Let's stand.。
And all of you standing in the back, are you gonna like come and grab a seat?。
Oh, okay. Anyway, we love you very much.。
But we're here to worship Jesus today. I'm so excited you're all here.。
We're gonna pray into this.。
Like, "Oh, come all you faithful," right? Why don't we pray?。
Father, we welcome your presence in this house today, Lord God.。
We are so excited that we get together as a church after a week apart.。
And God, we just pray that today as we sing to you, as we worship you,。
I pray that our focus will be solely fixed on you, Jesus.。
There's so much we brought here with us today.。
But God, today as we celebrate the season of Christmas, we want to be reminded once again, Lord God,。
we want our hearts to be turned to you.。
So come, Lord, I pray that you would grab attention here in this house today.。
Lord, let this time we will sing as we sing to you, Jesus.。
Let we just spend time with you, focus on you.。
Let us lay down everything else before you.。
God, we're here for you, and we're ready for you, Lord.。
In Jesus' name, everybody say.。
[Music]。
O come.。
O come, all ye faithful, joyful and triumphant.。
O come ye, O come ye to Bethlehem.。
Come and behold him, born the King of angels.。
O come, let us adore him.。
O come, let us adore him.。
O come, let us adore him, Christ the Lord.。
[Music]。
Sing, choirs of angels, sing in exultation.。
O sing, all ye citizens of heaven above.。
Glory to God, glory in the highest.。
O come, let us adore him.。
O come, let us adore him.。
O come, let us adore him, Christ the Lord.。
[Music]。
Yeah, Lord, we greet thee.。
Born this happy morning, Jesus, to thee be all glory given.。
Word of the Father, now in fresh appearing.。
O come, let us adore him.。
O come, let us adore him.。
O come, let us adore him, Christ the Lord.。
O come, let us adore him.。
O come, let us adore him.。
O come, let us adore him, Christ the Lord.。
We'll praise your name.。
We'll praise your name forever.。
We'll praise your name forever.。
We'll praise your name forever.。
Christ the Lord.。
One more time.。
We'll praise your name forever.。
We'll praise your name forever.。
We'll praise your name forever.。
Christ the Lord.。
O come, let us adore him.。
O come, let us adore him.。
O come, let us adore him, Christ the Lord.。
[MUSIC - "I'M NOT GOING TO DIE"]。
[MUSIC - "I'M NOT GOING TO DIE"]。
[MUSIC - "I'M NOT GOING TO DIE"]。
O holy night, the stars are brightly shining.。
It is the night of our dear Savior's birth.。
Long lay the world in sin and error pining。
till he appeared and the soul felt his word.。
A thrill of hope the weary world rejoices。
for yonder breaks a new and glorious morn.。
Fall on your knees.。
Oh, hear the angel voices.。
Oh, night divine.。
Oh, night when Christ was born.。
Oh, night divine.。
Oh, night, oh, night divine.。
Truly, truly he taught us to love one another.。
His law is love and his gospel is peace.。
Chain he should break for the slave is our brother.。
And in his name all oppression shall cease its guide.。
Sweet hymns of joy in grateful chorus raise we.。
Let all within us praise his holy name.。
Christ is the Lord.。
Yes, you are.。
All praise his name forever.。
His power and glory evermore proclaim.。
His power and glory evermore proclaim.。
Fall on your knees.。
Fall on your knees.。
Oh, hear the angel voices.。
Oh, night divine.。
Oh, night when Christ was born.。
Oh, night divine.。
Oh, night, oh, night divine.。
Oh, night divine.。
>> I love that song.。
It's a Christmas song.。
But it sings about God's goodness to us and his love。
towards us.。
What better way did he show us that than when he came.。
So, yeah, let's just worship him.。
Amazing love.。
Amazing love.。
Amazing love.。
Amazing love.。
Amazing love.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
You're so good to me.。
Behold the cross.。
Age to age.。
And hour by hour.。
The dead are raised.。
The sinner saved.。
The work of your power.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
You're so good to me.。
God, you're so good.。
Yes, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
You're so good to me.。
I am blessed.。
I am blessed.。
I am whole.。
I am real.。
I am whole.。
I am saved in Jesus' name.。
Yes, we are.。
Highly favored, anointed.。
Fill with your power all the glory in Jesus' name.。
I am blessed.。
I am called.。
I am healed.。
I am whole.。
I am saved in Jesus' name.。
Highly favored, anointed.。
Fill with your power all the glory in Jesus' name.。
And should this life bring suffering, Lord, I will remember.。
What Calvary has bought for me, both now and forever.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
You're so good to me.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
You're so good to me.。
I am blessed.。
I am blessed.。
I am called.。
I am healed.。
I am whole.。
I am saved in Jesus' name.。
Highly favored, anointed.。
Fill with your power all the glory in Jesus' name.。
I am blessed.。
I am called.。
I am healed.。
I am whole.。
I am saved in Jesus' name.。
Highly favored, anointed.。
Fill with your power all the glory in Jesus' name.。
Last time, God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
It's a lot.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
You're so good to me.。
I'm just wondering as we were singing, when we say these words。
or when we sing these words, God is good, you're so good to me.。
I just want to do a survey here in this room.。
You can open your eyes right now.。
If these words, God is good or God is good to me,。
if that means something to you personally,。
can I have your hands raised all across this room?。
All right.。
Okay, let's keep your hand up there.。
Let's keep your hand up there.。
So this is personal to you, I assume, right?。
Because you said that means something to me personally.。
If that's the truth, then what I want to do is we're going to sing。
God is good one more time, and I want you to mean it like this is。
personal to me.。
God, you're just so good to me, to me.。
I love you, God, because you're so good to me,。
and I'm here to sing this praise to you.。
I'm here to worship you today because you are good.。
Can we do this, church?。
Can we do this one more time?。
Let's do this.。
Let's worship him all across this house.。
Come on, church.。
Let's give it up this place.。
Let's do it.。
Let's sing this, church.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
You're so good to me.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
You're so good to me.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
God, you're so good.。
You're so good to me.。
God, I thank you.。
You're so good, and your goodness has nothing to do with us.。
Your goodness has nothing to do with how good we are.。
Your goodness has nothing to do with how much we've done to earn it.。
God, you're just so good for who you are, and we praise you for that.。
We love you, God.。
We worship you today because you are just so good.。
With or without us, you are good forever.。
Yesterday, today, you are the same.。
You are just that very, very good God, and we praise you, Lord.。
You are so good that when we are not good enough, you are not here to punish us,。
but you send your only son to die for us on the cross.。
So, God, forever, you deserve our praise.。
You deserve our worship, Lord God, and we're here to give you that praise and worship, Lord.。
We praise you.。
We thank you, Jesus.。
We love you.。
In your name we pray, and everybody say, "Amen."。
All right.。
Let's give it up to God, all right?。
Hallelujah.。
All right, now, we could be seated, but if you were here in the last couple of weeks,。
you know that this is Advent, and you see these beautiful candles in front of the stage.。
Our worship has not ended yet.。
While we're seated, we are going to continue to worship God with something called liturgy.。
That is something that has been passed down for years or centuries in the church.。
So what we're going to do is every week we're reading some scriptures.。
Someone is going to come up and lead us in a moment, and we have these candles that represent。
hope, love, peace, and joy, and we're lighting it each week.。
So this week we have Deborah coming to lead us to read the liturgy, and also we'll be praying in a moment.。
So thank you, Deborah.。
Jesus said, "I am the light of the world.。
The one who follows me will not walk in darkness, but have the light of life."。
We'll light this candle as a sign of the coming light of Christ.。
[Lighting the candle]。
We're praying for the fire of the Holy Spirit.。
Like I sometimes need to be shaken up before the fire could be released.。
Okay.。
Ah, it's coming.。
Thank you for your prayer.。
Hallelujah.。
Why don't we continue.。
It is too small a thing for you to be my servant to restore the tribes of Jacob and bring back those of Israel I have kept.。
I will also make you a light for the Gentiles, that my salvation may reach to the ends of the earth.。
Come, Lord Jesus, our light and life.。
Until that day, let us walk in the light of the Lord.。
Why don't we pray together, and thank you, Deborah.。
God, we thank you so much because you are that light, because you are here to bring light to us.。
So, God, I just pray as we are entering into this season of Christmas, God, I just pray that if there's still darkness in us,。
we pray that you would release your light in those areas of our lives.。
And may we continue to put our focus on you each day as we go about life.。
And in Jesus' name we pray.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Thank you.。
So, right now, we just want to say hello to some of us here who come for the very first time.。
If this is the first time you come and join a service, we would love to say hello to you.。
You could just let us know where you are, and we would love to give you a warm welcome.。
Hi.。
Yeah.。
And you could also scan this QR code on the screen, and there's a very short form just to leave some basic information with us,。
and we will stay in touch with you.。
So, the code is there.。
And today we are very happy because we have some special friends joining us.。
They came all the way from the United States or Hawaii.。
It's the YWAM team.。
They're here to lead our children today in K4C.。
So, why don't we also stretch out our hands to pray for our children.。
God, we thank you for children.。
Thank you.。
They remind us so many things.。
They remind us of simple faith and a lot of things in our lives.。
But, God, today we want to pray for them.。
We want to bless them that they will continue to encounter you at K4C.。
I pray for the team.。
I pray for our children.。
I pray for a wonderful time for them today in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
All right, parents, you know where to go.。
Zero to two at the back, three to five, or six to 12 over there on that side.。
If you're here staying here, why don't you turn to your neighbors and just share a few things with them.。
How's your week so far?。
Like, let's have a chat with someone.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
Awesome, awesome.。
Totally feeling the season so far, huh?。
Great.。
As usual, we have a couple of announcements for you.。
And we'll start with this coming Tuesday.。
We have a prayer meeting.。
Actually, it's a monthly prayer meeting.。
We're having it every month on one of the Tuesdays.。
And it's in person.。
So it will happen here.。
The slide is coming up in the back.。
It starts at 8 p.m.。
I almost wanted to say a.m., but we start at 8 p.m.。
So grab dinner and then come join us to pray, not just for ourselves or our church, but also pray for the community around us or the city we're in.。
And then on the 25th, that's next -- what do you call it?。
Not next Monday.。
Do you call it next Monday?。
Anyway, okay.。
You know next Sunday we have the Christmas Eve service?。
But then on the 25th, like we've said before, we have the Christmas service.。
So 9.30 and 11.30 a.m. as usual.。
We'll see you there.。
We love to see you there.。
And after service, we have the cookie feast.。
And, yeah, so anybody else you can bake or you love cookies?。
No, none of you?。
I don't believe it.。
I know you're all secret cookies lovers.。
Or, you know, we don't have to just eat cookies.。
You can bring in whatever, like from bakery, whatever pastries, whatever you love, we can bring and share.。
It's the spirit of the season to really share.。
Nobody should spend Christmas alone.。
Amen?。
Yes.。
Okay, now enough feasting.。
I have something else to talk to you about.。
After feasting, after this whole season, in January, every year at the Vine, we do a churchwide annual fast.。
That is next year or next month.。
We start in January on the 8th all the way until 28th.。
It's about 21 days.。
And if you are asking the question, oh, why are we fasting?。
I do want to tell you that, you know, fasting has been something that Christians have been doing for centuries.。
You know, Jesus taught his disciples.。
When he taught his disciples, Jesus didn't say, "If you fast."。
Jesus says, "When you fast."。
It means he assumes his disciples are doing it on a regular basis.。
And if you're not doing that on a regular basis, it's okay.。
We still love you.。
Jesus still loves you.。
But it's also a very great spiritual practice for us to start or to try.。
And don't worry.。
It doesn't mean you're not going to eat for 21 days.。
It's not like that.。
There are many, many different ways to fast.。
Complete or full fast is just one of the many ways.。
Some people choose a partial fast.。
Somebody does something like, what do you call it, a Daniel fast.。
For 21 days, they have a certain diet.。
They avoid certain things.。
So the main thing, it's not about what you eat or what you don't eat.。
It's about refocusing on God.。
It's about, you know, putting your focus less on yourself, less on what you want,。
less on what you need, but put your focus on God and say,。
"God, I want to humble myself before you.。
I want to tune in so that I can listen to your voice even more.。
And we want to worship you even more."。
And we're not just doing it as individuals.。
We're doing it as a church.。
We see stories after stories in the Bible when God's people join together in a fast.。
God will speak to them.。
God will do amazing things in them.。
And at the beginning of the year, that's what we want to do.。
We say, "God, we want to dedicate this whole year to you."。
And this is a posture.。
We want to come into a time of fasting to seek you together.。
And again, food is just one of the many things you can fast.。
Nowadays, there are so many things that are fighting for attention,。
that are stealing our attention from God.。
And maybe perhaps you know what those things are for you,。
and those are the things that you can lay down for 21 days for Jesus.。
Social media has been one of the very popular options recently.。
I'm not saying that you have to do it, but that's just one of the examples that I can give you.。
And so as we are feasting in the next couple of weeks,。
you can spend some time in your quiet time.。
"God, what would you like me to fast in January?"。
That's a good time to think about it as well.。
In the next couple of weeks, we'll give you more updates about this.。
Are you good? Okay.。
Yeah? Hungry? That's okay.。
Yeah, let's go and eat a feast before we start the fasting.。
But yeah, so now we're going to continue our worship with our offering.。
As volunteers, our welcome team are passing down the buckets.。
If you're using cash or checks, you may grab one of those envelopes on the seat,。
and you can write on them so you could get the tax receipt.。
Or if you're using any digital means, they're all on the wall.。
QR code, scan it.。
We all are very used to it nowadays.。
It's such a beautiful time in Christmas, remembering when we give,。
when we're thinking what we can offer God,。
that we remember God has offered us his one and only son here to come on earth,。
to go through all the mess, right?。
We're having this sermon series called "Christmas,"。
and we're going to be going through all the mess, going through all the trouble,。
and to die for us on the cross, a very horrible death,。
so that we could be with him, so that we can experience his generosity.。
So that's what this season is all about.。
So let's respond to that kind of generosity in our worship, in our offering.。
Why don't we pray together?。
Father, we thank you for your generosity, your ultimate generosity.。
You gave your one and only son.。
God, we know we can never outgive you, and we celebrate that.。
We celebrate the fact that we have a good, good father, a generous father.。
We know everything we need in our life, you already knew before we even asked.。
So God, today, as we come here, this is not just an act of generosity.。
This is an act of faith, knowing that as we put in these resources,。
as we give them back to you, as we put these in the buckets。
or through online or whatever way, God, we know, first of all,。
you will continue to be our provider.。
And we also know that you are going to multiply these resources。
to bless so many other people around us.。
So God, we just pray your kingdom come.。
We pray that you will continue to grow that kingdom on earth。
through our small partnership with you.。
God, we thank you, we love you.。
In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.。
Now, I am so excited to welcome to the stage our friend June.。
She is going to bring the message to us today.。
And where do you want me to put this?。
It's here, it'll be fine.。
Why don't we stretch out our hands and let's pray for June.。
God, we realize in the last couple of weeks as we talk about this Christmas,。
a lot of us, we are also sharing the mess in our lives as well.。
But Father, we know in our stories, in the story of the Bible,。
we saw how you always act and work in our midst.。
And so, yeah, Father, we just pray that today this mess we are sharing。
will become a message in our lives.。
We just pray you would release your word in and through June。
and to bless our hearts to change our lives.。
In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.。
Thank you, Chapman.。
Welcome to Divine Yuen Long and let me introduce myself.。
I'm June. I'm one of the staff here.。
Normally, well, actually my role is to look after the family and kids ministry.。
And I'm honored today to share my story with you today.。
So, when I was young, well, actually right now,。
I don't really celebrate my birthdays because it fall on a festive day.。
And people are already having parties and stuff like that.。
So, I'm happily crashing their parties and make it my birthday party.。
And just to have fun and, you know, celebrate together.。
But one of the reasons why that is because, obviously,。
it was a festive day and people are already celebrating.。
But another reason is that it might be because of one of the stories。
that I had when I was young.。
So, when I was young, I'm not a very sociable person.。
I don't have a lot of friends. I have very low social skills.。
And so, when I was in third grade, I already don't have a lot of friends.。
So, I decided this year I'm going to have my first ever birthday party.。
I'm going to invite the many numbers of friends that I have at school。
and my cousins to come to my place and just have a good time.。
They don't know each other because some were from my home,。
some were from school, you know, they were in different parts of my life.。
But, you know, I don't know if they planned it together.。
One by one, they started to cancel on me on the day of the birthday party.。
So, at that time, I was heartbroken.。
I just sleep it off pretending nothing has happened.。
But actually, what I was feeling was rejection.。
And I didn't know it at that time.。
But as I grow, I realize that rejection is everyone's story.。
No matter you are a few months old or you are 900 years old,。
it is something that we have to go through every day.。
Maybe you start your rejection getting rejected。
when you want to go to someone's home and your parents said no.。
Maybe you were rejected because you want to sleep at 10 o'clock tonight。
and your parents said no.。
Maybe you were rejected when you proposed to someone,。
maybe for your visa application.。
There are many opportunities where we would put ourselves out there。
to be vulnerable and what we received was a rejection.。
Some rejections are easy to let go.。
Sometimes we can just move on with our life easily.。
But there are emotions that are hard to let go.。
It's not because those are big incidents,。
those are big things that it's very hard to let go.。
Sometimes they are just tiny things.。
But when we get rejected,。
it's not that they are rejecting the incident itself.。
It felt like they are rejecting me.。
Me as a person and my worth and my worth to be at a certain place.。
The passage that we are looking at today。
is about the story of Jesus being born in Bethlehem.。
Unlike the perfect and simplified version of a children's nativity play,。
the details of the Christmas story actually revealed God's heart for us.。
How is that connected to my story of rejection?。
When the angels and the hosts all celebrate and sing together。
when Jesus was born,。
how can it connect that to my story of rejection?。
So let's have a look at today's scripture together.。
It's from Luke 2, verse 1-5.。
In those days, Caesar Augustus issued a decree。
that a census should be taken of the entire Roman world.。
That was the first census that took place。
while Quirinius was governor of Syria.。
And everyone went to their own town to register.。
So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea。
to Bethlehem, the town of David,。
because he belonged to the house and line of David.。
The story begins by setting the time, character, and location.。
Luke not only describes the birth of Jesus,。
but also connects that with a historical event.。
The Roman Empire was ruling over Israel,。
and that with one degree, the whole world,。
meaning the whole Roman Empire,。
had to pack their bags and go and return to where they belonged to.。
So regardless of their social status。
or what was going on with their life, they all had to go.。
So Joseph and Mary set off to their journey,。
and the journey described in the passage was not a short one.。
It would have taken approximately three weeks.。
So because if you look at it in the map,。
it would be a straight line from Nazareth to Bethlehem.。
But however, they couldn't go through Syria.。
They had to detour a little somewhere.。
So that actually took around three weeks.。
And not only that, the danger and the trouble of traveling so far。
was actually really tough for both of them.。
Well, I got a chance to visit Israel in August,。
and I had experience of hiking, you know,。
at the outskirt of the desert of Judea,。
and I actually hiked with my life,。
as if actually my life depended on it as I hiked,。
because it was so hard and so difficult and so treacherous.。
I remember as I-- normally when I hike,。
I would follow the guide very closely,。
because if I don't, I would get lost.。
I would not know my way around the world.。
But at that time, when I hike, I let go of the guide.。
I let go of the whole group.。
I'm just trying to stay alive.。
I had my water bottle with me.。
I'm holding it as if I'm holding my baby,。
and I just try to keep up and try to stay alive.。
And actually the hike was easy--。
was hard for young individuals like you and I.。
But imagine, Mary at that time, she was pregnant,。
and had to travel from one place to another.。
And of course, there were many debates。
over whether they start their journey in summer or winter.。
And probably most of the time, most of the debate,。
they were leaning towards winter.。
So they don't have to deal with the scorching heat。
or the temperature, but what they had to deal with。
was the extreme temperature differences,。
what they had to deal with was the rocks and the burglars。
that were hiding and they were trying to overtake。
or try to rob the passerbys.。
And there were lots of dangers along the way.。
In addition to their personal pressures,。
Mary had to carry the burden of being an unwed woman。
from the very beginning.。
Throughout those nine months,。
she likely to face a lot of gossips and accusations.。
They faced disbelief and judgment and rejection。
from those who doubt the story.。
The accumulated stress during those months。
must have been overwhelming.。
They might have originally hoped for a quiet and private birth,。
but their plan didn't go expected.。
In the midst of all these pressures,。
they had to travel from Nazareth to Bethlehem。
and with Mary physically pregnant and unable to hide it.。
Can you imagine what went through Mary's head?。
Maybe she would have thought,。
"God, didn't you told me the plan?。
"Didn't you get me, you know, the Holy Spirit,。
"pregnant me with a baby?。
"Isn't it your dream?。
"Give me the dream and vision for me to carry it for you?。
"Didn't you also said it to your husband。
"that not to be afraid?。
"How can your dream and your vision coming down like this,。
"into this mess like this?。
"Aren't you the wonderful God who could help me。
"and prepare everything for me that you gave me this vision。
"and now everything seems to be a mess?。
"How could this be?"。
I don't know if you resonate with what Mary had experienced.。
Maybe God has given you a dream or a vision。
or something to work toward,。
but in the middle of it, it gets so messy。
that you doubt if it ever going to happen。
and doubt if God ever had spoken to you like that.。
But one of the things that this mess。
was actually planned by God.。
We in our limitation can only see so far,。
but God with his unlimited resource,。
unlimited vision can see past our mess.。
This mess was intended so that we could experience him.。
It is not that the mess was something out of God's control.。
It is a mess that was planned so that we could experience God.。
So let's keep on looking at the next passage.。
From Luke chapter 2, 6 to 7.。
"And while they were there, a time came for her to give birth.。
"And she gave birth to her firstborn。
"and wrapped him in swaddling clothes and laid him on a manger,。
"because there was no place for them to be in the inn,。
"because there was no place for them in the inn."。
Having no place is a remarkable statement.。
Why was there no place?。
Did Joseph not book a room in advance?。
Was there no hotel?。
Did he try Airbnb?。
He should. It's quite useful.。
However, as we mentioned earlier,。
Joseph and Mary was not going on a trip.。
They were not travelling.。
They had to go back to where Josh Joseph came from,。
that going back to where he came from.。
And so it would probably be going back to his family,。
to his relatives, to his uncle and aunt,。
probably someone that he know.。
And so when they travelled back to Bethlehem,。
they would not go for an inn.。
They would not go for someone they don't know.。
They would have expected to go back to their family.。
They would have expected their family to open up their arms,。
to embrace them completely,。
especially for Mary,。
that she has been pregnant and is about to give birth.。
She would have anticipated a place。
where the family would welcome her in。
and just give her a place to stay。
and to give birth in a safe environment.。
However, as Joseph going door to door,。
asking for a room and they say no,。
it was not because of the only innkeeper that was heartless.。
It was actually the community of where Joseph was from.。
And to add on to that,。
they did not just reject two healthy individuals.。
They were rejecting a woman who was about to give birth.。
If there are mothers and fathers in the room,。
if you've experienced the hectic and the nervousness。
of your spouse giving birth,。
it would be hard to imagine。
that when Joseph had to take Mary door to door。
and all the answers was a no.。
No, you cannot stay here.。
No, even if giving birth is a life and death event,。
we will not make room for you.。
That you have to give birth where animals eat.。
The first Christmas is not of a picture perfect one.。
It was one about rejection.。
The saviour of the world was not welcomed at the beginning.。
No one was willing to make room for Mary to give birth to Jesus.。
And his rejection didn't stop there.。
Time and time again, people rejected him.。
The Jews cast stones at him.。
The Christians at him.。
People at his hometown tried to throw him off the cliff.。
The religious leaders criticized him。
because he hung out with the wrong people.。
He hung out with sinners and with people of the margins.。
His own disciples who followed him,。
who saw all his great acts,。
who had been loved by Jesus,。
one self-sought him out。
and the other refused to acknowledge him, to know him.。
His friends, his family and religious leaders all rejected him.。
Even ourselves.。
Before we started to accept Jesus,。
we ourselves have rejected him.。
We did not regard him as our saviour.。
We tried to fix our lives with our own ways,。
hurting others and ourselves along the way.。
Even now, when we have become Christians,。
we will fall into rejecting him when we kept him at bay,。
hiding from him, not acknowledging his sovereignty over us.。
Jesus fully understands the pain of being rejected,。
the hurt of not being recognized or heard,。
the isolation, the shame of not being included.。
He fully understands it.。
And that's why I know that he can fully understand me.。
I'm an only child and from a young age,。
I learned my social skills through observation.。
But instead of learning how to make friends,。
my mind started to collect evidence。
of why people wouldn't want to be friends with me.。
My parents at that time were busy with work。
and communication or affirmation was not their priority.。
And so all these have created a wall between me and people.。
I could think of a million ways or a million thoughts about me。
why people wouldn't hang out with me or give me that opportunity.。
In my head, there were reasons why I'm not loved.。
In order not to be rejected, I reject other people.。
I start to collect evidence of why people wouldn't want to include me.。
So before I go for that position or I try to reach out to those people。
or I try to join in that activity,。
I would think of reasons why I shouldn't do that.。
And I say, "Jun, you cannot do that.。
You are not accepted. You will not be loved.。
Let's stay where you are."。
And so with all these experiences and rejections,。
a rejection at myself and rejection at other people,。
I put that with my experience with my God.。
I project what I've experienced to how God would have loved me as well.。
I know that God loves everyone unconditionally, but then...。
But then...。
I know that God would love me, but how could He love me if I have all these faults?。
I know God would love me, but He would love the good part of me.。
Let me fix my fault first.。
Let me fix my failures first.。
He would love this good part of me.。
And the parts that I have rejected myself, I'm just going to hide.。
I'm just going to stay where I am.。
And so for the longest time, I did not experience the love of God.。
Because of how I've experienced my love in this world.。
I find that as I've rejected myself,。
I have rejected others' love for me and God's love for me.。
And because of rejection, I've isolated myself。
and carried the burden of always living on edge。
in the fear of more rejection.。
It felt like I'm walking on a tightrope.。
I'm longing to reach to the other side,。
to make friends, to be connected, to have that opportunity.。
But I'm also carrying this heavy burden of the fear of being rejected,。
of the fear that actually what I rejected myself is going to be used against me.。
And I've walked on this tightrope for the longest time.。
But Jesus understood all of that.。
Jesus understood the fear and burden caused by rejection。
because He has been rejected.。
He understands my defense mechanism because He had lived in this world。
and He understands my limitation as a human.。
Jesus showed me through the story of His messy birth。
that He is not looking for a grand entrance。
to get all the glory and all the love from people.。
He is willing to be born in a smelly, disease-ridden place,。
showing me that He is willing to accept me,。
no matter how dark and rotten I feel I am.。
I've learned that the first step to be healed from the wounds of rejection。
is acceptance.。
I have to accept that I am fully loved by God.。
To accept that with my flaws and all, I am worthy of love.。
And it is a decision I have to make before I feel anything.。
It's not that, "Oh, I feel the love of Jesus so I know that I'm fully accepted."。
If that is the case, then I will be going around collecting evidence.。
"Oh, today I received this so Jesus loves me,。
but today I don't have that so Jesus doesn't love me."。
And I will be comparing and I will be collecting evidence.。
I will never be filled because I'm looking at this realm。
and I try to find that if I'm still worth it or not.。
So in order to be fully accepted, I need to make a decision to go,。
"Hey, I decided that no matter what happens, no matter what I see,。
I accept that Jesus loves me unconditionally.。
He loves me as a person. He loves who I am, the person that He has made.。
He knows that I am worth it."。
And so that is the first step for me to know that I am accepted.。
We can sing the songs of boundless love a million times。
and it would only carry meaning if we could accept that the deep,。
the depth and the width of His love on each and every one of us.。
There is no flaws and no brokenness and no imperfections。
that can separate His love for you and for me.。
Every time a sneaky, intrusive thought would come in to tell you that。
there are reasons for you not to be loved,。
there are reasons for you not to be accepted,。
but you've got to make a decision and let the Holy Spirit to lead you,。
to guide you to say, "But this is not true.。
This is not what the Bible says.。
This is not what God's love looks like."。
And so with that thought, I began the journey of my restoration.。
Because I'm accepted in Christ, fully accepted,。
I have the courage to show my authentic self to people around me.。
I allow them to see my flaws, my mistakes and my imperfections,。
knowing that since the Most High has accepted me, I can have no fear.。
Even though they can still reject me, I am always fully known and fully loved.。
You are fully known.。
All your things that you feel you're good at,。
all the things that you feel you're not good at or not enough,。
you are fully known and fully loved.。
This love is not because of how good you are.。
It is because of how deep His love for you is.。
So as I open myself to my community,。
and specifically to community in Christ,。
they show me that this love actually exists in this world.。
They show me that not because they are able to do that in person,。
but because each and every one of them has received the love of God,。
the grace of God, and they are extending it to the people around them.。
They don't make use of my mistakes as a reason to reject me,。
but actually they've stayed by me,。
and even though I was about to run away.。
And I've seen this in this community.。
I've seen people walk the extra mile.。
I've seen people going out of their comfort zone to make friends.。
And I've got to say, to reach out and make friends or to be known。
is a very risky thing, because you are putting yourself out there, being vulnerable.。
What if people say no when I say hi?。
What if people just turn their shoulders?。
What if when I try to say I want to join in their lunch, they would reject me?。
But remember, because you are always fully known,。
you will always be accepted in Christ's community.。
You are also accepted and welcome if you want to sit at my stage.。
It's okay.。
So with that, I would love to extend my message to you。
to tell you that God loves you very much.。
And I would like every one of you to stand up and just to receive the prayer.。
And would the band please come up as well.。
Today we talked about Jesus' unconditional love for each and every one of us.。
We've talked about how he understands us in our pain of rejection。
and wounds that we have created because of the way we have experienced this world.。
We've shared about in the midst of all this messiness, God sees and understands.。
And he loves you.。
And I would like everyone to close their eyes.。
Maybe there are questions that you have in your mind about, you question about his love for you.。
Maybe there are experiences in your past that has caused pain,。
but you have hid it and you have suppressed it.。
Maybe times that you've been rejected so much that you wouldn't want to come out。
and the world seems very unsafe for you because you don't know if you'll be rejected or not.。
If you are struggling with that, if your friends are struggling with that,。
I would like you to open up your hands.。
I would like to pray for you.。
If you long for healing from rejection, I would like to encourage you.。
Allow yourself to be accepted.。
You are safe in God's perfect love.。
There is no judgment, no condemnation.。
You are free to be yourself in God's love.。
It is when we are truly ourselves before him that our wounds can begin to heal.。
So come before him just as you are.。
Open up your hands as a sign of receiving this love.。
And I would like every one of you to be part of that.。
If you are ready to pray for other people,。
I would like you to put your hands on their shoulder and just to pray for them.。
Pray for them to receive and experience God's boundless love for them,。
to experience God's healing for them.。
So if you want to pray for other people, you can open your eyes and put your hands on。
those that have opened up their hands.。
[music]。
[whispering]。
[music]。
[music]。
Thank you, Father.。
Thank you, Father.。
We receive your love.。
We receive your unconditional acceptance and love and healing.。
May what you have planted in our heart today grow and prosper.。
May we walk out this room knowing that wherever we are,。
however we might feel about ourselves, you always love us.。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
