by your word this afternoon.。
In your name we pray, amen.。
- Amen.。
Thank you, promise, for that, I think.。
(congregation laughing)。
Good afternoon, church, how's everyone doing?。
Yeah, upper house, I see you.。
Actually, no, I don't see you, but I know you see me,。
so I wanna say hi.。
Hey, greetings, especially for those of you。
who just put up your hand,。
this is your first time at the Vine.。
Check out the newcomers, you get to meet us,。
some food, drinks.。
Just a little bit about myself.。
My name is Justin, one of the pastors here.。
I know we have many, but that is our Vine family.。
The Vine has been my home for almost two decades now.。
I've come to Hong Kong, I grew up in Canada,。
came to Hong Kong as a young adult, served here,。
got involved, got to know a bunch of people,。
met my wife here, got called to be a pastor。
and still walking this path now.。
And some of you actually recently asked me,。
you know, with all honesty,。
it's like, Justin, what do you do here?。
Let me answer that, I think this is a good time.。
I am Pastoral Care Pastor, what does that mean?。
Simply that when you email me, when you email us,。
I reply and together with the pastoral team,。
we find ways to support you, whether you're getting married,。
whether you want a visit, a prayer,。
that's why we're here for,。
so do reach out if you feel like that.。
Yeah, so we're almost through our series in this year.。
We're almost through our series in forgiveness.。
This is week five of six.。
Pastor Ellison's gonna come back next week。
and wrap it all up.。
And so can I just see a show of hands,。
who's actually been here?。
Don't be shy, don't be shy, all right.。
So that's most of us actually.。
And so what have we talked about?。
We've talked about the importance of forgiveness,。
what it is and what it isn't,。
that we cannot forgive on our own strength.。
And of course, Christianity is the central tenet。
and one of the pillars of Christianity。
is that forgiveness renews us.。
Without forgiveness,。
Christianity would not make that much sense.。
Grace would not make that sense.。
And last week, Pastor Jennifer and Pastor Jess。
and Allison and Charles reminded us。
that we actually, a lot of times, many times,。
probably all the time, we need each other。
to help us on the journey of forgiveness.。
We need help, we need to be forgiven。
and we also need that encouragement。
to keep on walking this road.。
And church, I'm gonna,。
this is the most confident I'll be today。
and I can just probably read your mind and say,。
you know what, it has not been easy.。
This series has not been easy.。
Even preparing this message has been so difficult。
because forgiveness is a reality,。
it's a shared reality that all of us。
must diligently work through and work hard at.。
Forgiveness doesn't just come through a prayer or two,。
it doesn't come with just attending worship。
and God does something, it's a journey.。
It takes hard work, it takes thoughtfulness,。
it takes our faith, it takes the community。
for us to walk through this.。
So I want to encourage you, you're not alone.。
We walk through it together.。
And so today, this week, week five,。
we want to explore what it means。
for us to receive forgiveness.。
So it really is about us today.。
I wanna talk about you, I wanna talk about me。
and I want to invite you, wherever you are in this journey。
right now, forgiveness in your life, what season.。
I want you to just be able to tangibly say,。
yes, this is what I'm gonna do about it.。
Now, I'm gonna take you through a journey,。
I'm gonna highlight three really complicated。
and difficult factor that causes us difficulty。
when it comes to receiving forgiveness for ourselves.。
And so I wanna ask you right now,。
what is your sermon strategy game?。
So I know I saw some eyebrows here.。
So when you come to church, how do you receive God's word?。
You know, do you take notes?。
Are you a note taker?。
I'm a note taker, I write everything。
that ever has been pre-preached.。
And I go home and I reflect on it and I pray about it.。
Whereas some of us just listen and you absorb。
and you're like, you know, this is what I need to do.。
And so I wanna encourage you, whatever your sermon game is,。
however you receive God's word,。
I've been just preparing this message for weeks.。
And my only prayer is that I believe。
that God's just gonna show us one thing.。
And I just pray that you would have the courage today。
to lean into this, to just say, yes, Lord,。
this is where I'm at, I'm not ashamed,。
I will not be ashamed, I'm just gonna act and respond.。
Okay, and so I want to just center our entire conversation。
in how to receive forgiveness for ourselves。
on this beautiful gospel story。
in Luke chapter seven, verse 36 to 50.。
So before I begin, I just wanna summarize.。
I think some of us appreciate summaries.。
This account is between Jesus and Simon the Pharisee.。
Simon the Pharisee invites Jesus to his house。
and there's always a surprise.。
This sinful woman comes unannounced。
because she desperately wants to see Jesus.。
This is where we're at.。
And so as we read this, as we listen to this passage,。
I just want you to consider one thing.。
I want you to think about why is it。
that some of us can love God more than others?。
You ready?。
All right, I'll take that as a yes.。
All right, so chapter seven, verse 36.。
When one of the Pharisees invited Jesus。
to have dinner with him, he went to the Pharisee's house。
and reclined at the table.。
A woman in that town who lived a sinful life,。
she was a prostitute, learned that Jesus。
was eating at the Pharisee's house.。
So she came there with an alabaster jar of perfume.。
As she stood behind him at his feet weeping,。
she began to wet his feet with her tears.。
Then she wiped them with her hair,。
kissed them and poured perfume on them.。
When the Pharisee, that is Simon,。
who had invited Jesus, saw this, he said to himself,。
"If this man were a prophet,。
"he would know exactly who is touching him。
"and what kind of woman she is, that she is a sinner."。
Jesus answered him, "Simon, I have something to tell you.。
"Tell me, teacher," he said.。
"Two people owed money to a certain money lender.。
"One owed him 500 denarii and the other 50.。
"Neither of them had the money to pay him back,。
"so he forgave the debts of both.。
"Now which of them will love him more?"。
Simon replied, "I suppose the one。
"who had the bigger debt forgiven.。
"You have judged correctly," Jesus said.。
Then Jesus turned to the woman and also said to Simon,。
"Do you see this woman, Simon?。
"I came into your house.。
"You did not give me any water for my feet,。
"but she wet my feet with her tears。
"and wiped them with her hair.。
"You did not give me a kiss,。
"but this woman from the time I entered。
"has not stopped kissing my feet.。
"You did not put oil on my head,。
"but she has poured perfume on my feet.。
"Therefore, Simon, I tell you,。
"her many sins have been forgiven。
"as her great love has shown.。
"But whoever has been forgiven little loves little."。
Then Jesus said to her, "Your sins are forgiven."。
The other guests began to say amongst themselves,。
"Who is this who even forgives sins?"。
Jesus said to the woman,。
"Your faith has saved you.。
"Go in peace."。
When we read this, we can see that the response。
of Simon the Pharisee and the sinful woman。
cannot be any more different.。
And so the question I asked you was,。
how come some people can love God more than others?。
Well, I want to bring us back to verse 47,。
where Jesus says, "I tell you,。
"her many sins have been forgiven。
"as evidenced by the way she's loving.。
"But whoever has been forgiven little loves little."。
So for the woman, from the moment this woman。
came bursting into Simon's house uninvited, unashamed,。
her actions revealed that there is nothing。
too good for Jesus.。
How could she love?。
It's because she was grateful.。
She was indebted to Jesus,。
who was the one who forgave her for all her sins.。
Everything that she's done, Jesus forgave and said,。
"Go and live this new life in freedom away from sin."。
And so I think the critical difference。
was the woman was fully aware of her sinfulness。
and that she did something by coming to Jesus.。
And the way she acted is because she is so grateful.。
Now, by contrast, I think from our perspective,。
while Simon was cold, he's a bit rude,。
he was a bit disrespectful because he did not attend。
to the common courtesies that the Pharisees。
would have known to do, such as washing a guest's feet,。
such as greeting your guest with a kiss on the cheek,。
and also by anointing your guest's head with oil.。
And so I think Simon, he acted this way。
because he did not feel like he had。
to acknowledge his sinfulness,。
and that he probably did not comprehend the depth。
of God's forgiveness for this man.。
And so if I were to read this further together,。
can you imagine what if, what if in that moment,。
you know, Simon invites Jesus to his house,。
and suddenly Simon realized the depth of his depravity,。
his sinfulness, and he turned to Jesus,。
and he said, "Jesus, I want what she's having."。
Imagine if that's happened.。
That might have happened, but we don't know.。
And I think we can say that in this story,。
that forgiveness, being forgiven,。
and being able to receive that forgiveness。
has everything to do with how we love each other,。
how we forgive, and whether or not we will,。
are willing to extend forgiveness to one another.。
This story, when I was preparing,。
brought me back many, many years ago, when I was 16.。
I was running away from God.。
I knew God existed.。
I was a liar.。
I stole.。
I just wrecked all the relationships in my life。
to a point where luckily we moved houses twice,。
so I don't have to deal with the chaos I left.。
But when I think back, you know, when I was saved,。
God became everything.。
I was like that woman.。
I worshipped, I wept.。
I just did not care what people thought.。
My friends and I, we just went to worship the Lord。
when we could have been doing other stuff.。
But then, of course, as we grow up, as I grew up,。
we encounter life, and life gets difficult.。
Things happen, our thoughts change, our values change,。
our belief change, they get challenged.。
And more and more, I hate to admit this,。
but sometimes I come to church,。
I come to worship the Lord。
with this Simon kind of attitude.。
I cross my arms sometimes.。
I'm a bit apathetic.。
My heart is cold.。
I'm forgetful at what God has done all of these years.。
He has never left me, but yet I just feel like,。
I don't feel much.。
And so therefore, I'm kind of like Simon,。
and I don't know if you can put yourselves in that,。
your shoes, and so I say all this。
because this story radically reframes。
the way we understand forgiveness.。
Because according to this story,。
if we want to receive forgiveness for ourselves,。
then it's going to require love.。
And we cannot understand and comprehend love。
until we understand how much we are forgiven.。
And so I want to just propose today。
that our starting point is that。
each of us have to think about。
our ability to receive forgiveness from God,。
our ability to receive forgiveness from each other,。
and I want to just highlight the three things。
that always gets in the way.。
I want to just bring them up to you。
so that all of us today will not shy away。
from critically analyzing and examining。
how are these three things affecting us right now.。
Because if we just don't do that,。
then we will get lost,。
then we just kind of just get cold,。
we kind of end up like Simon a bit.。
And the three things I want to talk about。
is how our sin, our excuses, and our guilt。
impact and hinder our ability to receive forgiveness.。
So the first thing when we talk about our sins。
is that I just, you know, I want to say and state。
the obvious, that the reality is that all of us sin.。
Sin is the reality, the nature,。
our normal human everyday experience.。
We cannot separate ourselves from this reality.。
Isaiah 64 reminds us, verse four,。
"All of us have become like one who is unclean,。
"and all our righteous acts are like filthy rags,。
"and like the wind, our sin sweeps us away."。
The scripture says that as long as we are in。
this temporal, decaying body, sin will dwell in us,。
sin dwells in us, and that we will continue。
to commit inexcusable acts against God,。
against one another, against creation.。
And if we allow this sin to be unchecked,。
unrepented for, then we will experience。
dire and long-term consequences.。
And some of us have already experienced this.。
You know, sin disconnects us.。
Sin erects emotional barriers between us。
so that we cannot actually communicate, we cannot connect.。
Our sin causes us to act on our darkest, insatiable desires.。
It causes us to act out in our hatred,。
our jealousies, our self-righteousness.。
And if we allow sin to lead us,。
then we will continue to hurt and manipulate,。
control, abuse, and we will always seek retribution.。
But church, I want to, once again, just,。
I want to come back to the gospel.。
The good news is no matter how dark it gets,。
no matter how much sin controls us,。
the good news is that we are all, like this woman,。
equally placed to receive God's free。
and merciful grace in our life.。
That means all of us have the opportunity。
to be set free, to be forgiven,。
to be released on the potentiality。
to have a new life with Christ.。
And that's why he died for us,。
so that we can experience this.。
1 John 1, verse nine reminds us,。
I know we've read this in this series,。
but this is such, this is a scripture that you should,。
and all of us should memorize.。
It says, "If we confess our sins,。
"God is faithful and just and will forgive us of our sins。
"and purify us from all unrighteousness."。
This means that as we confess,。
as we come to the Lord acknowledging our sinfulness,。
the Holy Spirit will renew us, restore us, heal us.。
And this promise is as sure as the rising sun。
and the setting of the sun.。
However, this is conditional,。
depending on what we make of our sin,。
what we do with our sin.。
Because, church, once again, if we ignore the reality。
that sin is always against, working against us,。
and that sin dwells in us,。
then our lives will remain miserable,。
it will be burdensome, it will not be a pleasant journey.。
And all of us have experienced that.。
And our tendency to not adequately,。
as in to not honestly face and confront our sin reality。
is probably the cause of a lot of my internal stress。
and suffering, anxiety,。
and eventually, whatever happens in here,。
you will feel it, you will know it。
through my words and actions.。
And so, church, we ask, how should we respond then?。
I want to just say something very simple.。
I think we can respond by accepting our propensity to sin.。
Now, I'm not advocating an acceptance。
of our sinful lifestyle and that we continue in it.。
I'm saying that we should accept by examining。
and being honest to say, you know what?。
My sin has caused so much hurt。
and it continues to wreak havoc in these certain ways.。
And if we need further proof,。
our very attempt to avoid the reality。
and the consequences of our sin。
is actually symptom of our sinfulness.。
Because sin wants to keep us in the dark.。
It does not want our dirtiest deeds exposed.。
Sin also prevents us from seeing clearly.。
It distorts our vision.。
We do things out of ego, selfishness.。
I've already been in that.。
And sin keeps us from doing。
what we truly, genuinely want to do.。
And so, church, today, this afternoon,。
if you are serious like me,。
that you want to follow Jesus for this rest of this life,。
you want to be faithful,。
then can I say to take your sin and our sin seriously。
and to take time and to examine。
how it is at work in our life?。
I would say that acceptance is the immediate。
and also long-term solution for us。
because as we journey, as we find comfort。
in the spirit and what God is doing,。
we encounter Jesus.。
And just like this woman,。
we meet Jesus and he forgives us.。
And we experience freedom.。
A second thing that hinders our ability,。
I think, to receive forgiveness,。
that we don't talk about enough,。
is our tendency to make excuses.。
As broken people, as sinful people,。
we cannot help but to habitually make excuses.。
We make excuses or we excuse ourselves。
out of doing something because, you know why?。
Because generally and probably most of the time,。
we're just afraid to face the truth.。
We are afraid to confront what we've done。
and how things really are.。
So what we do is we lie。
and we say deceptive things。
in order to make us feel better。
and to maintain this appearance。
of being good, moral people.。
Sometimes we run away.。
Sometimes we take substances to numb ourselves。
so that we can ignore what is actually happening.。
And so this, our incredible ability。
to excuse ourselves from wrongdoing。
is gets perpetuated by rationalizing, by blaming,。
by trying to put together obsessively the perfect excuse。
so that we don't have to deal with God,。
so I don't have to say sorry to you.。
When I think about Simon's distancedness。
when the day that Jesus visited him,。
I think that Simon must have told himself certain excuses.。
He must have rationalized where he stood,。
you know, because he was a Pharisee,。
so he knew and he probably said to himself,。
"Well, I'm religious.。
"I attend to the temple, I teach, I tithe,。
"I do everything I'm supposed to.。
"I have memorized the Torah."。
You can ask my colleagues here.。
They know me.。
And if Simon kept on saying that。
and carrying with that narrative,。
then there's actually nothing for him to repent of.。
He has done no wrongdoing.。
And I think this, in Simon,。
I think there is a cautionary lesson here。
that as Christians, it's really easy for us。
to come here on a Sunday。
and never have to actually deal with our sin。
because we're very vague about our sin.。
You know, we're very general.。
We're not actually trying to specifically call out。
how we've hurt each other.。
And so we can come here and just say,。
"I'm sorry, God," but we go away just deceived。
because we actually haven't asked for forgiveness.。
We actually haven't rectified our wrong.。
And so how should we respond to our excuses?。
Well, I'm gonna quote the great C.S. Lewis。
because he offers a little bit,。
well, not a little bit, but very helpful thoughts。
on how we can counter our excuse-making.。
The first thing C.S. Lewis would call us to do。
is to remember that God knows of all our actual excuses。
even before we say it.。
You know, because if Jesus was the one。
that died in our place on the cross,。
he died for our sins and our excuses。
and everything that causes us to be disconnected。
so that we can be forgiven,。
so that we are not condemned for the same thing.。
I think this is why the sinful woman。
was able to run to Jesus because she knew。
that she would be free if she came to him.。
And I think the surest way,。
another way that C.S. Lewis would call us。
to counter our excuse-making is to simply believe。
that Jesus is willing and wanting to forgive us.。
You know, after years of making excuses,。
after years of making excuses,。
of living in these false narratives。
because we just don't wanna deal with the pain。
and we don't want the suffering,。
we'd rather just run away,。
we start believing the very things that we say.。
And the incessant anxiety to make excuses。
eventually causes us to believe a false gospel.。
It starts making us believe that God will not forgive us.。
But today, the good news, based on Luke 7,。
we realize and you realize,。
I want you to know that if you come to God today。
and ask for forgiveness, you know he will say,。
"I will, I will forgive you, I will set you free."。
And the third factor, the third thing I want us to address。
that is a bit more complex, a bit more difficult。
is to talk about our guilt.。
You know, to what extent does our guilt。
hinder our ability to receive forgiveness?。
You know, because I think all of us can agree。
that there are so many moments in life。
when we are overwhelmed by our guilt。
because of what we've done, what we continue to do,。
even though we try to stop, what we've done in secret,。
when we told ourselves we need to stop doing this,。
and all the ways that we've hurt people。
and we've left just bodies behind us。
but we don't wanna deal with it.。
And that guilt, if we don't look at it honestly,。
it turns into shame, it turns into stress,。
it turns into fear, it turns,。
it just causes us to want to hide.。
And then we spiral into this place。
where we eventually start believing that,。
you know what, I'm so unworthy, I am unlovable,。
I'm actually unforgivable.。
And we live like that, I think a lot of us。
just live like that.。
You know, think about Simon, Simon invites,。
he had perfect intention to invite Jesus to his house,。
and what happens, Jesus is like, Simon,。
you didn't do this, you didn't do this,。
you didn't do this, imagine the guilt。
that the guy would have felt, and maybe that's why。
he couldn't say anything else, he didn't know what to say,。
he was just stuck.。
And you know that as hard as we've tried,。
we've probably come to the same conclusion.。
We've tried to get rid of our guilt,。
but we realize we don't have the power,。
we don't have the authority to forgive ourselves。
or to release ourselves from our guilt,。
otherwise there would be no need for Jesus to die for us.。
But equally true, we've also, I think, realized。
that we cannot mitigate or lessen or get rid of our guilt。
by just being more disciplined, more balanced,。
by our own effort and strength and willing。
that the guilt goes away.。
And so Paul omits exactly the state we're in,。
he says, what a wretch, what a wretch we are.。
We are consumed and overwhelmed by this sin and guilt。
and who can rescue us?。
And so perhaps of just thinking about,。
well, how do I get rid of this guilt, Justin?。
I want us to maybe think about it。
as how do we work at our guilt?。
How do we take steps towards God where we say。
this is the guilt we have now,。
Lord, can you help me deal with this?。
Walk with me, teach me how to let this go。
so I'm not led astray by my own guilt。
and all these feelings having to do with it.。
And so I think how we can respond is we start in Romans 8.1。
and Paul says, there is therefore no condemnation。
to those who are in Christ Jesus.。
This scripture reminds us of the gospel once again。
that we are no longer condemned。
because of what Jesus did on the cross.。
Because he died for us,。
he did something that we can never do for ourselves.。
And so that Jesus died the most gruesome。
and violent, unspeakable death as the only son of God。
in our place so that we can know what freedom from guilt is。
so that we can live on the resurrected side of the cross.。
And each time we confess our sins to God,。
he doesn't condemn us but he gives us the Holy Spirit。
and through the Holy Spirit, we are renewed,。
we are set free.。
And so this sinful woman could approach Jesus。
because despite everything that she's done,。
all the shameful things that she does not want to say,。
she knew that she didn't have to hold up any excuses。
and that for all the guilt and shame,。
she knew that Jesus would forgive her.。
And she came boldly because of that.。
And so church, I want to raise and propose a question。
that I think for the rest of our life, we should wrestle with。
that we should be aware and should be asking ourselves。
concerning guilt.。
And this question is super important。
because this question is,。
is the guilt that you feel right now。
a conviction of the Holy Spirit。
or is the guilt and the condemnation you feel。
something that the devil is causing you to feel on purpose?。
Because sometimes if we don't think about this,。
if we allot everything to God and what he's doing,。
when bad things happen, we think that this is God leading us。
because there's no other option.。
But actually there is another option.。
There's another realities that we live in this world。
where Satan is the prince。
and that he does influence many things.。
And so we cannot be naive about this.。
We cannot be ignorant.。
And I think guilt is such a practical real entry point。
to understanding is God's truth and what he's saying.。
Do I believe that?。
Or will I allow myself to just be swept away。
by what the enemy is doing?。
He wants to keep us in the dark.。
He wants us to just continue to be condemned。
and live in darkness.。
And so how do we discern this?。
Today I want to just propose one thing.。
I want to invite you to allow the Spirit。
to open up your heart, open up my heart。
to show us what is true。
so that we can authentically seek change.。
Because in all these years, we've lived with our excuses.。
We've lived with sin.。
It's like living without an arm,。
living without a feet, living with this like ugly wound.。
This is how a lot of us have been living.。
But we don't have to live like this.。
And today I want to share the good news。
that perhaps guilt could be a gift of God to us。
if we allow it.。
Because through guilt,。
we can journey into an awakened state。
where we realize I don't have to live in sin.。
I don't have to keep on giving excuses。
and to pretend that my life is perfect when it's not.。
And so guilt has the potential to bring us closer to God,。
to experience his kindness and his mercy.。
And guilt makes us aware of what we actually need。
to be forgiven for rather than what we think we need.。
And finally, guilt is a gift that enables us。
to know and experience God's so amazing grace。
because he knows how much we need it.。
So now let me just tie everything together so far, okay?。
If I were to propose an idea that encapsulates。
how we can counter our sin, our excuses, our guilt。
in one practice that the church has been called to practice。
through the generations,。
it would be the practice of confession.。
And I'll be the first to admit that I think as a church,。
we don't talk about confession as much.。
I grew up with confession 'cause the people around me,。
we just knew the importance of it.。
And so I remember it and I want us to remember it.。
I want us to know about confession。
because it's a matter of life and death.。
You know, I don't know if you follow church news,。
but in recent years, there's just been so many scandals。
involving Christians, pastors, people we respect。
and followed for many years.。
And I just think, I was thinking this week that,。
you know, what if these pastors。
in the community practiced confession?。
Then maybe these churches and these communities。
could have mitigated just the chaos,。
the internal inside secret chaos that we all carry.。
We could have mitigated that。
and we could just avoid all these news scandals.。
And I want you to remember this verse.。
I think this is one of those verses, once again,。
I've just committed to my memory.。
It's James 5, verse 16.。
And I want you to hear this in this context。
of what we're talking about.。
If you're serious about wanting to be free,。
wanting to be able to receive forgiveness。
and to be able to love again freely and unashamedly,。
then listen to James.。
James says, "Therefore, confess your sins to each other。
"and pray for one another so that you may be healed."。
See, confession is God's idea.。
Confession is God's way of not allowing the church。
to be sucked and destroyed by sin.。
Confession is a way in which we can bring our sin,。
our guilt, whatever it is,。
that keeps us from being forgiven,。
that keeps us from God into the light。
so that there's no more excuses.。
And that we would, in confession,。
see things for what they really are and not be ashamed,。
but knowing that God forgives us.。
And so I think how James and how confession is practiced。
is that we are to go to one another。
because as brothers and sisters in Christ,。
we represent Christ to each other.。
We represent Christ and light and salt to the world, right?。
So in confession, we just go up to someone。
and we say, "Hey, I wanna be frank with you about my sin.。
I wanna be frank about my excuses.。
I wanna tell you how my shame and guilt。
has been at work in me."。
And James says, "We then, rather than just judge。
and just be in shock, we pray for another."。
And can I say what I'm about to say,。
this is what defines Christianity.。
When you confess and you pray for another。
and you know that God is in that conversation,。
the miraculous happens.。
You get freed, you experience God's grace。
and there's no theology.。
I don't have words to explain that moment.。
But all I can say is that as Christians,。
if we do not confess our sins, if we do not repent,。
if we do not ask for forgiveness, then we do not grow.。
Because forgiveness and asking for forgiveness,。
confession is a discipleship issue.。
If Jesus says it's important,。
then I think we should take that a bit more seriously.。
(sips tea)。
I just want to maybe share a little bit.。
You know, I have three beautiful children,。
two are here right now.。
And I think since having these three children,。
I've learned something about myself.。
I've learned that I have road rage。
even when I'm not driving.。
And it sucks, it really is terrible, you know?。
And I think, unfortunately, fortunately,。
my wife, my helper, my three children。
are the ones that actually see this part of me.。
And the hardest part, I think, every day, every week,。
every month is to have the courage to say sorry.。
It's to have the courage to apologize。
for what I've done wrong.。
You know, of course, before I get to that point,。
there's a lot of excuses, there's a lot of excusing,。
there's a lot of guilt, a lot of just fantasizing,。
what if, you know, the first worst case scenario is。
what if my children don't forgive me?。
You know, but you know what causes me to do this,。
to ask for their forgiveness?。
It's that I cannot move on otherwise.。
I can't live my life, I cannot continue another day。
knowing that we are disconnected,。
knowing that my sin, my excusing, my guilt, my shame,。
my acting out is causing us to have,。
keeping us from having a good relationship,。
a healthy relationship.。
And so it's the possibility,。
even the slightest possibility of shalom,。
of reconciliation that I say, you know what, screw it,。
I'm gonna run to Christ, I'm gonna do this.。
I wanna quote what my wife said recently.。
It's just a truth bomb, she didn't realize she said this.。
We were teaching marriage prep together。
and we were, week four, the last week,。
we talked about the importance of forgiveness。
and working out all our stuff.。
And she said this, she said,。
"Even if things are dead inside, forgiveness revives them."。
And I think you can replace forgiveness。
with repentance, confession, asking for forgiveness,。
extending forgiveness.。
And the reality is, just like the sinful woman,。
I want us to come back to her。
because she models what all of us need.。
We need an openness, a belief,。
a genuine belief that God will forgive us.。
And we need to know in faith that when we go,。
that he will free us and liberate us。
like nothing we've ever experienced.。
And this is the mystery of our Christian faith.。
This is the grace of our Christian faith.。
And this is why to this day,。
as hard as it is to be a Christian,。
I'm still a Christian because I've experienced。
God's grace coming through confession,。
through asking for forgiveness and being forgiven.。
I don't know if you can recall the last time。
you were forgiven for something.。
You know, that just sets you free.。
It causes, you're just lighter.。
And I know I said, I can't really explain in theology。
and words what that feeling is like, but let me try.。
So when you confess, when you ask for forgiveness,。
when someone forgives you,。
it is just the most surprising feeling.。
You're like, what?。
What?。
What?。
And you experience this unconventional release and relief。
that you're like, wow,。
that you just cannot anticipate until it happens,。
until in that moment someone says you're forgiven,。
until you feel like the Spirit just released you。
of many years of guilt.。
And you will never regret this decision.。
To confess and to receive forgiveness。
is like having the pain of a toothache suddenly gone。
because the dentist has removed that tooth.。
And you feel that gap of openness.。
And when you eat ice cream, you feel the chilling numbness。
and you're so glad that it's not pain.。
It feels unfamiliar because this world tells us。
that you should not forgive.。
Eye for an eye, right?。
Our love, our relation is conditional.。
If you treat me well, I'll treat you well.。
But actually that is not what Jesus came to teach us.。
He taught us the very opposite.。
He said to take a risk.。
He says to trust me, to lean into me,。
and I will teach you how to live this life。
with a yoke that is light, that is not burdensome.。
And so I just pray, church,。
that you would be willing to give this a try。
because if you do not,。
we lose out on an opportunity of growth.。
Worship team, can I invite you up?。
I want to conclude, church, to remind us。
that the journey of forgiveness,。
the journey of the Christian faith,。
it is a long journey.。
It is an ongoing journey.。
It is actually a marathon.。
But what keeps us running is that whenever we fall,。
whenever we get tired,。
whenever we need some kind of encouragement,。
Christ meets us through the church.。
And therefore we can get healing.。
We can ask for forgiveness.。
We can be encouraged.。
The Spirit fills us up.。
The Word of God encourage us, and we keep on going.。
And so, church, I, you know,。
sometimes I think, well, what do I want to do with my life?。
My simple answer is I just want to finish well.。
I want to be faithful to Jesus.。
I want to serve the church as I can.。
But I want to be faithful.。
And so, church, I want to remind us。
that if you are serious about being a Christian,。
then just, you have to be patient,。
as God is patient to us,。
because growth and clarity comes in time.。
It doesn't come right away.。
And, church, I just, lastly, just want us to remember。
the difference of the sinful woman and Simon the Pharisee。
and how they responded.。
Because the woman was able to accept her sinful life.。
She was able to repent, and as a result,。
she was just set free.。
She was so grateful that she was forgiven。
that she decided that wherever Jesus is,。
I'm going to be there.。
I'm going to anoint his feet.。
I'm going to weep.。
I'm going to worship him.。
I'm going to give the best of what I have to Jesus。
because she is so grateful.。
And therefore, she can love.。
Now, Simon, I think at that point in this story,。
he remained in a bit of darkness.。
He wasn't fully able to live the life fully。
because maybe, perhaps, of his understanding of his sin,。
and he didn't understand how much God yearns to forgive him.。
And so I pray, church, I want to ask you to stand.。
I'm going to come back to that prayer I shared with you.。
My only prayer for you today, this afternoon,。
is that you would have courage to come to Jesus this afternoon,。
just like this woman,。
that you would seek to be released and forgiven from your sin,。
that you can just say, "Lord, I don't have any more excuses.。
I don't need excuses because I'm with you."。
And would you say, "Lord, Holy Spirit,。
would you help me to work at this guilt by confession?。
Would you help me to just lighten this load I've been carrying?。
Would you give me an opportunity to say sorry,。
to rectify, to go to someone who I've hurt,。
and just start this conversation of reconciliation?"。
Whatever it is, church, I just want to invite you and to imagine.。
I want you to just imagine the Jesus that this woman poured her tears upon,。
this Jesus that no longer condemns her,。
this Jesus that set her free and said, "Go and live this new life."。
I want you to come to this Jesus this afternoon.。
I want you to consider just that one thing the Spirit is showing you right now,。
so that you can just say, "Lord, help me to see this from your perspective."。
Or maybe some of us, we just need to respond in adoration today。
because you recognize how much you've been forgiven.。
And so, church, would you go out and encourage?。
Would you worship with your heart?。
Would you continue just to be steadfast and say, "I'm in it to win this marathon"?。
So, Jesus, would you walk and run with us, we pray?。
Amen. Let's worship, church.。
[Music]。
