Good morning, everybody.。
Good morning.。
Happy New Year.。
Here we are at the start of a new year.。
Thank you, Carla.。
Beautiful.。
All right.。
It's good to be back.。
My family and I, we've been away on sabbatical for a little while, and so it wasn't very。
restful when you're traveling with two little kids, but we had a lot of fun family time。
together.。
But I'm so glad to be back with everybody and getting into the swing of things, Christmas,。
and of course, looking towards 2024.。
We're going to be in Philippians chapter three today, so if you want to follow on the screen,。
it's going to come up on there, or if you have a Bible or a device that you can read。
from, I'm going to invite you to listen as I read Philippians chapter three, starting。
in verse seven.。
Word of the Lord says this, "But whatever were gains to me, I now consider loss for。
the sake of Christ.。
What is more, I consider everything a loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing。
Christ Jesus my Lord, for whose sake I have lost all things.。
I consider them garbage that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness。
of my own that comes from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness。
that comes from God on the basis of faith.。
I want to know Christ, yes, to know the power of his resurrection and participation in his。
sufferings, becoming like him in his death, and so somehow attaining to the resurrection。
from the dead.。
Not that I have already attained all of this, or already have arrived at my goal, but I。
press on to take hold of that which Christ Jesus took hold of me.。
Brothers and sisters, I do not consider myself yet to have taken a hold of it, but one thing。
I do, forgetting what is behind, straining toward what is ahead, I press on toward the。
goal to win the prize for which God has called me heavenward in Christ Jesus."。
So here we are, church, on the cusp of a new year.。
Goodbye 2023, hello 2024.。
For some of us, New Year's Eve is very exciting.。
Let me tell you how it's going to go down at my house tonight.。
After services today, I'm going to call Dobro's, I'm going to walk over to that little shop。
in Wan Chai, pick up my pizzas, we're going to go home and have pizza for dinner because。
it's super easy, put the kids to bed, I'm going to open a bottle of wine and then doom。
scroll Instagram for a little bit until I get a bit tired, then I'm going to put on。
a movie, I'll fall asleep on the sofa inevitably, wake up at 1am or the baby will wake me up,。
take a look at my watch, oh it's 2024 and go back to sleep.。
I know how to party, that's how it's going to go down at my house.。
But for you, for you out there, maybe you have champagne in the fridge right now, I。
know Hudson does, definitely.。
Fancy dress party to attend later.。
Perhaps some of you in this room or watching online, you're planning to ask the big question。
tonight, okay?。
Some of you today are going to be ringing in 2024, okay?。
And it's all going to be good, it's going to be a celebration.。
Maybe that's you tonight, I don't know.。
For some of us, 2023 has been a great year.。
You've hit your goals, you've landed that dream job, you've met the person that you've。
been wanting to meet.。
And as you look ahead, it's looking good.。
There is so much to look forward to.。
So tonight, as Prince tells us to do, we're going to party like it's 1999.。
However, dates like New Year's Eve are difficult for some of us.。
Because instead of looking forward to celebration and the excitement that's to come, tonight。
you're going to be reminded of how tough the past year has been.。
And as you look ahead, the forecast is just more disappointment.。
And 2023 hasn't been kind, and it's hard to see how things are going to change.。
And so Christmas Eve, New Year's Eve, dates like this, it's just a painful reminder of。
pain and sadness.。
So as we look towards 2024, I'm not here to tell you today it's just going to be a best。
year ever, okay?。
I'm not going to say that because I have no idea, we have no idea how this year is going。
to turn out.。
Like I said, for some it's going to be awesome.。
All your hopes and dreams and prayers are going to come through.。
But for some it's going to be a storm.。
And I don't know if things are going to get better.。
But wherever we are in this journey, my hope for today, as we end this year, is going to。
be an encouragement and a challenge for everybody.。
And yes, I understand we don't have to wait till New Year's Eve to do something like this,。
but today is Sunday.。
We are gathered.。
It does happen to be New Year's Eve.。
So we have an opportunity to hear from the Lord about the things that have passed and。
the things that are yet to come.。
And what I do know is this, what I do know is no matter what life looks like for you。
right now, in this moment, in this season, there is an attitude, there's a frame of mind。
and a faith that Jesus wants us to step into as we look towards 2024.。
A foundation for us to build the next 365 days on.。
Some framework for you to think about as we step into the fast.。
And so whether or not 2024 brings you to the top of the mountains where you're celebrating。
or leaves you struggling in the valleys, we can be sure about our goals and our purposes。
for this year.。
So let's go back to the passage we're looking at today.。
Let's see what it has to say.。
Verse 7, "Wherever were gains to me, I now consider loss for the sake of Christ.。
What is more, I consider everything a loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing。
Christ Jesus my Lord, for whose sake I have lost all things.。
I consider them garbage that I may gain Christ and be found in Him, not having a righteousness。
of my own that comes from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness。
that comes from God on the basis of faith."。
So let me ask you this.。
If someone were to ask you, "How do you measure how successful your year has been?"。
What would you say?。
I'm preaching for this iPad and it messes up on me.。
Hang on a second.。
Normally I use paper.。
New year, new me.。
It's not working out so far.。
Hang on.。
Okay, here we go.。
Okay.。
What would you say?。
How would you measure how successful your year has been?。
What would be your answer?。
Well, if you're a fan of musical theater, you might say this.。
In daylights, in sunsets, in midnights, in cups of coffee, in inches, in miles, in laughter,。
and in strife, 525,000.。
Many times when we look at life, we measure it by achievements, things we have done.。
So as you look back towards 2023 and how successful it was, you might start by asking yourself。
the question, "Did I achieve all the things I set out to achieve?。
Did I hit all my goals?"。
Right?。
The internet, social media is going to be full of memes about this.。
You know the ones that say, right, "How it started, how it's going," right?。
And so as the year comes to an end, okay, not great for these guys, okay?。
You promise.。
As the year comes to an end, you might have been on this process yourself, seeing how。
well you've hit your 2023 goals.。
Now goals can be a good thing.。
In fact, here at the Vine, as a church, as a ministry, we have a process for setting。
goals for ourselves personally and professionally, right?。
We do this as a way to keep focus on the things that are important.。
It gives us a way to measure whether or not we're heading in the right direction, keeps。
us accountable to the things that we said we were going to do at the beginning of the。
year.。
And when we hit those goals, it's awesome, right?。
Setting that new personal best for a fitness goal and finally reaching that, that's great.。
Buying the dream car, getting that promotion, paying off that debt, whatever it is, when。
we reach our goals, there's an undeniable sense of achievement.。
It feels good.。
And so now as you look towards 2024, you might have already made a list of goals, resolutions。
to start the new year with.。
We make these declarations of the things we want to achieve at the beginning of a new。
year.。
And like I said, it can be a good thing.。
In fact, for some of us in this room and some of us watching online, you'd be doing yourself。
a great favor by setting some real goals this year so that the next 365 days don't just。
go aimlessly sailing by.。
At the same time though, if we make reaching these earthly goals the only thing, if hitting。
goals is a standard that we focus on, I don't think that's very healthy either.。
And I don't think that's the way Jesus calls us to live our lives.。
And by the way, statistics show us that only 9% of people who make resolutions manage to。
see them through till the end of the year, which means that for most of us this year,。
we've already failed before it started.。
Which is why when Paul says, "But whatever were gains to me, I now consider loss for。
the sake of Christ," it's absolutely ridiculous.。
Because this was a man who had hit all his goals.。
This was a man who achieved everything you could imagine to achieve and then some more.。
Listen to how he describes himself in Philippians chapter three a bit earlier, just the verses。
before this, 4 to 6.。
"If someone else thinks they have reason to put confidence in the flesh, I have more.。
Circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew。
of Hebrews in regard to the law, a Pharisee.。
As for zeal, persecuting the church.。
As for righteousness based upon the law, faultless."。
In 2023 translation, this is what he's saying.。
"If you think you've done a lot with your life, trust me, it's nothing compared to what。
I've done.。
I'm the best of the best.。
I'm the creme de la creme.。
If you look at my resume, it's perfect.。
I'm the guy you aspire to be.。
I've done and achieved things you can only dream of doing yourself."。
But there's something important to note here.。
As much as he's achieved, what Paul is saying here, it's not the things that he achieved。
are of no value at all.。
He recognizes that these goals, these achievements he has are of great value.。
They are important.。
These things were precious to him, but yet he's still willing to throw it all away.。
In other words, what Paul is saying, Paul is not throwing away rubbish in order to gain。
Christ.。
He is throwing the things away that were extremely important to him in order to gain Christ.。
This is why his testimony is so remarkable.。
What Paul is saying that the best achievements he's gained in his life have become meaningless。
to him, that all the goals that he's reached are rubbish.。
Why?。
The answer is powerful but simple.。
He has a new goal, and that's Jesus.。
So in a world and a culture that puts so much focus on achievement, it seems like such a。
ridiculous thing to do, especially if you've achieved so much.。
But this is exactly the challenge that lies before us today.。
So let me ask us this, church, before or ahead of all the goals you want to see happen in。
2024, are we willing to put Jesus first?。
Paul's not talking about giving everything for the sake of nothing.。
There's a reason and a motivation.。
He hasn't gone crazy, although some might say he has lost his mind, but there's a motivation。
to do what he is doing.。
He is willing to give up everything because he has found something that's worth more than。
all these things put together.。
And Paul is giving up everything because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus,。
my Lord.。
Paul is giving up everything so he can walk in true righteousness.。
You see, he recognizes he had a righteousness once.。
He was perfect, he says, in following the law.。
But his righteousness wasn't one from God.。
It was one that was done by his own power.。
But now he recognizes there's a better righteousness, one that he could never achieve on his own,。
one that can only be given through life in Jesus.。
Paul is giving up everything so that he could have a life that is not defined by personal。
achievements, but is a life that is lived, defined through faith in Christ.。
He's choosing to give up even the best things so he could receive something better.。
At the risk of repeating myself, we have to understand Paul gave up everything, everything,。
his comfort, his reputation, the trajectory that was his, his money, his power, his identity,。
so that he could have a deeper and more intimate relationship with Jesus.。
And where do you think he got this example from?。
Because by the way, isn't this what Jesus did for us?。
Isn't this what we just celebrated at Christmas?。
Jesus who gave up his position in heaven, who made himself nothing, taking on the nature。
of a servant, humbled himself, becoming obedient to death, even death on a cross.。
Why?。
So then he could pave the way for us to have an intimate relationship with him.。
So let me ask this again.。
I'm going to phrase it more directly towards ourselves this morning.。
Are you willing to let go of all things, even your best things, even your most precious。
things in order to gain Jesus?。
Could this be the one goal you give yourself above all other goals?。
If the answer is yes, and I hope it is, we're going to talk about how to do this a little。
bit.。
Because after, like I said, after giving up our most precious things, we gain something.。
This passage gives us new goals to aim towards.。
Paul says this, "I want to know Christ, to know the power of his resurrection and participations。
in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, and so somehow attaining to the resurrection。
of the dead."。
So like I said, if you want some new goals for 2024, if you're looking for some framework。
to walk towards in your fast, this might be helpful for you right now.。
First thing is this, to know Christ.。
To know Christ.。
When Paul speaks of knowing Christ, this of course is more than just a general knowledge.。
It's more than just an intellectual awareness.。
But to know Christ is to be in relationship with him.。
Many of us in this room, we might know a lot about who Christ is.。
In fact, we might know a lot about a lot of people.。
I follow Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson on Instagram, right?。
And I know sometimes he posts what he's doing.。
I wouldn't say I know him.。
I mean, I know we have a similar physique, but apart from that, I don't know him that。
well, right?。
So I wouldn't say I was friends with him.。
So I'll say this again.。
To know Christ means we have to be in relationship with him.。
Not just being a part of a church, not just coming to Sunday services, attending Bible。
studies.。
The call here is not to know about Jesus, but to know him in a way that actually shapes。
and directs your life.。
My family in Christ.。
Do you truly know Jesus?。
Now, in order to truly know Jesus, you must also participate in this next step, to know。
this thing, to know the power of his resurrection.。
The most powerful display of God's love was shown to us when Jesus sacrificed himself。
on the cross.。
But the most powerful display of God's power was shown to us when Jesus was resurrected。
from the dead.。
And so if we truly want to walk in the life-changing relationship with Jesus in a way that actually。
shapes and directs our life, if we really want that, we have to understand that we do。
that by the power, the same power that raised Jesus from the dead lives in you.。
That's what empowers you to live a life-changing relationship with Jesus.。
But again, I think this is something we sometimes underestimate or forget about.。
We do.。
We underestimate what we can do in the name of Jesus.。
So we forget about this resurrection power.。
It makes us timid in our faith.。
We get scared.。
We start to think that there's certain things that God can't do.。
But let's not forget, church, with God, what things are possible?。
All things are possible.。
The biggest mountains of struggle in our lives that seem so insurmountable, God can move。
that mountain.。
All things.。
But here's the great mystery.。
At the same time, the power of resurrection in our lives also works in more subtle ways.。
Resurrection power might work in your way, in your life, like giving you encouragement。
in time of need.。
It might give you the courage to have that conversation with the person that you know。
is struggling in their faith.。
It might give you the wisdom and the patience to sit next to someone who's going through。
pain.。
It might give you a generous spirit to give away things, to help someone without anyone。
ever knowing a thing about it.。
It might not be as loud, but it's definitely as powerful.。
So my question for us in this, do you want to know the power of resurrection in your。
life?。
Do you want to know Jesus, and do you want to know the power of his resurrection in your。
life?。
All this, of course, is gonna ask something for us.。
And it's going to require you to, and Paul says, participate in suffering.。
Now why would we want to participate in suffering?。
If we truly want to know Jesus and his power, then it's not just all about warm, fuzzy feelings,。
walking in his blessings, being encouraged, gathering community, as beautiful and as necessary。
as these things are.。
There is also, church, a call to suffer.。
To know Jesus fully means we must be able to relate what it means to suffer.。
Jesus himself says this, "Don't be surprised if people hate you.。
Take up your cross, then follow me."。
To the rich young ruler, he says, "If you want to follow me for real, sell everything,。
then you can come and follow me."。
Suffering is one of those Christian characteristics, one of those things of Christian life that。
we would like to conveniently ignore.。
But scripture tells us clearly we must be willing to embrace it.。
In other letters of Paul, in other books and parts of the Bible, it tells us that we have。
to go through things like endurance, refining, and perseverance, things that are not pleasant。
at the time when we go through them.。
They are painful, but is necessary for our righteousness.。
Now don't hear me wrong.。
I know, okay?。
We need to look after ourselves.。
Practicing self-care is an essential skill for our lives.。
I'm not calling us to look, search for suffering and just go through suffering for the sake。
of it.。
However, I do think there comes a point sometimes when self-care turns into selfishness or even。
self-indulgence, which means that every time something hard comes up, everything, you know,。
a tough road is up ahead, our natural inclination might be to avoid it.。
And we start to think, "Well, surely God's not calling me to step into this direction.。
That's gonna be hard.。
That's gonna cost me something.。
It's gonna be difficult."。
But church, let's not forget, we follow a Savior who was always willing to step right。
into the middle of suffering, who wasn't afraid of the storms.。
We follow a Savior who never shrunk back from doing the difficult thing.。
Therefore, as His followers, we need to learn how to embrace suffering as a way of getting。
to know Jesus better.。
We need to learn to be comfortable in navigating through the difficult things in life because。
the truth is the world around us is in a constant state of groaning.。
And the effects of sin in this world are still very much at play.。
Therefore, learning how to go through suffering means learning how to see Jesus in the midst。
of pain and inviting others to do the same.。
And the key to all of this, Paul tells us, it's becoming like Him in death.。
Again, it doesn't seem to make sense.。
If we want to gain something, we have to die.。
If we want to gain Jesus, we have to die.。
How does death lead to gain?。
Well think about it this way.。
What was Jesus' biggest achievement when He was here on this earth?。
What would you say that was?。
He did a lot of miracles, fed 5,000 people, walked on water, healed people, healed the。
sick, even resurrected the dead.。
But the biggest achievement, I might put to you, that Jesus achieved on this earth was。
in fact His death.。
Because Jesus dying was a shock to everyone.。
Nobody expected Jesus to die.。
Not even the enemy expected things would work out that way for Jesus on this earth.。
But He had to die.。
He had to die so that we could live.。
He had to die so that sin could be defeated.。
And so brothers and sisters, in the same way, in order for us to truly know Christ, we too。
have to die to the sins in our lives.。
To be in a true relationship with Jesus is to die to the things that hold us back from。
Him.。
Why is death so important?。
Because without death, there could never be resurrection.。
Without dying to the sin in your life, you will never be able to experience what a changed。
life looks like.。
You want to break free from the sins that were holding you back in 2023?。
The only solution is to die to them.。
And we do this by renouncing and repenting of our own selfish desires so that we can。
say yes to the path that Jesus wants us to walk down.。
And unless we do, we will never know freedom.。
You will never know what the new and resurrected life feels like.。
You will never know what it feels like to live life and life in the full as Jesus has。
promised us.。
We embrace these things.。
We embrace suffering.。
We embrace even death because we know that death does not have the final word.。
And resurrection is a reality, a promise that is to come for those who are in Christ.。
We can embrace death.。
We don't have to be afraid because death has been defeated.。
Now, if all that sounds challenging, it is.。
These things are challenging because these are things we'll never be able to obtain,。
to embrace, to fully grasp in our lifetime.。
You see, what we've been talking about is not just goals for 2024.。
These are goals for life.。
This is how Paul describes it.。
Not that I've already obtained all of this or have already arrived at my goal, but I。
press on to take hold of that which Christ Jesus took hold of me.。
Brothers and sisters, I do not consider myself yet to have taken hold of it, but one thing。
I do, forgetting what is behind, straining toward what is ahead, I press on toward the。
goal to win the prize which God has called me heavenward in Christ Jesus.。
The journey to intimacy with Christ, the path of discipleship, a relationship with Jesus,。
the goal of knowing Him is going to be a lifelong pursuit.。
It's something that we have to be willing to walk in daily, which is why Paul tells。
us three times, "Press on, strain toward, press on, keep going."。
And in order for us to press on in this journey, we cannot let the things of the past hold。
us back.。
Forgetting what is behind, we strain towards what is ahead.。
This is why this is a message and a challenge, like I said, hopefully for everyone.。
Because if 2023 was the most amazing year for you, good for you, and what a blessing。
that was.。
And I don't mean that in a condescending way, really.。
But even so, even if 2023 was the most amazing thing for you, press on.。
Don't sit back and bask in the glory of the past, but be reminded that there is still。
so much more ahead, that God can do things that you haven't even seen or imagined.。
Be thankful for the things God has done, but keep looking forward to what is yet to come.。
And if 2023 was a tough season for you, the encouragement is the same.。
Press on.。
And I know the pain must have been real, and the loss you suffered was unimaginable, and。
it cut so deep, and you don't really even know how to take the next step forward.。
But know this, Christ Jesus has taken a hold of you, and He will never let you go.。
And I hope that you are walking in a community around you, a community that truly is able。
to walk with you through pain, so you are not alone in this.。
And as you look ahead, as fuzzy and dark as the future seems, as painful as you might。
anticipate it to be, be encouraged too, to know that there's a prize that awaits you.。
And in the great mystery of God's love and grace, I pray that you will find peace and。
healing in Jesus.。
So this is the challenge for us as we walk towards 2024.。
This is what God is calling us to, not just for this year, but for our lives as we continue。
on in this journey.。
So as we end, actually, I want to open up some space for God to speak to you, right?。
This is just a message from me.。
I'm just a person here speaking to you guys.。
I don't know what you've been through, but God does.。
And there's something that God wants to speak to every single person here tonight, here。
this morning, watching online, wherever we are.。
So we need to open up some space for God to be able to do that.。
I have no idea, but I do know that God wants to speak to you.。
So if you have something you can take notes with now, maybe it's on your phone or something。
that you write with, there's going to be some questions, reflections that we can use to。
guide our time in this.。
We're going to take some time actually right now to do this, but you can also take a picture。
if you want some more time throughout the rest of the day as we look toward 2024 to。
do this.。
And the team are going to play some music, but let's just open up our hearts right now。
and put distractions aside and ask God to speak to us.。
So Lord, here we are.。
Lord, we want to put aside some time right now.。
Every single person in this room is precious to you.。
Every single person in this room is a child of yours, whether they've realized it yet。
or not.。
And you are holding out your hand.。
That's the picture we got this morning, church, of Jesus holding out his hand, offering it。
to us.。
Father, I pray that you would give us the strength and the courage now to take you by。
the hand.。
Holy Spirit, I pray that you would come speak to us as we look ahead, as we strain towards。
the remaining time we have on this earth.。
Help us to put you first.。
Help us to know what a true and intimate relationship with you looks like.。
Help us to die to the things that have held us back from you.。
Walk with us through our suffering and help us to be a comfort to those around us as they。
are suffering.。
Speak to us in this time, Lord.。
We open up space for you to guide us and to lead us.。
Let's just spend some time in prayer on your own, church.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
Jesus, I thank you for speaking to us.。
I thank you that as we gather together as family, Lord,。
you are in our midst.。
The most amazing thing about you, Jesus,。
is that even as we leave,。
you continue to be with every single one of us。
and our families and the people we love。
and the things that we carry in our hearts.。
And so Lord, for the things of 2023,。
we leave them in your hands.。
And I pray comfort where comfort is needed.。
I pray strength where strength is needed.。
I pray thankfulness where thankfulness is needed.。
I pray hope where there's been hopelessness.。
And as we look ahead, Lord,。
as uncertain, as unknown as it might seem,。
I pray that you would give us the faith to know that。
if you are guiding us,。
even though if we go through difficult times,。
through difficult things, we are not abandoned.。
It may be part of your plan,。
but I pray that every decision we make,。
each and every day as Jethro was praying just now,。
as Justin's been praying,。
would be a decision to walk hand in hand with you,。
to get to know you better.。
(gentle music)。
So Jesus, thank you that you never give up on us.。
No matter what comes ahead, Lord, we trust you.。
We trust you fully.。
Lead us, guide us, protect us with your love.。
And we pray these things in Jesus' name, amen.。
Let's respond by worshiping Jesus together, church.。
You can stand or you can remain seated.。
And the worship team's gonna continue to lead us。
in some songs of worship.。
[MUSIC]。
