"O come, O come, Emmanuel, and ransom captive Israel,。
who mourn in lonely exile here,。
until the Son of God appears."。
I wonder if you can hear the longing。
and the crying out for change。
that is found in those beautiful lyrics。
of that famous carol and in the visual imagery。
that our creative team created in that opener for you.。
Because this longing, this crying out。
for the Son of God to appear。
is what sits at the very heart of the Advent season。
that we enter into today and over the coming Sundays。
that lead up to Christmas morning.。
Advent itself is driven actually。
from the Latin word adventus,。
which literally means arrival or coming.。
And here at The Vine over the last many, many years,。
we've always celebrated this idea。
that we must prepare ourselves as a church。
for the arrival of Jesus who is born on Christmas day.。
And so Advent in our celebrations here at The Vine,。
for as far back as I can remember,。
have always been about this thought。
that Christ was born on Christmas day。
and we need to prepare ourselves for his arrival.。
And so all of our sermon series。
and everything we've kind of preached during this season。
has been out of the gospels,。
out of the story in Matthew and Luke。
of Jesus's birth and the prophetic ways。
in which that birth happens。
and the miraculous things that take place in that moment.。
But here's the reality.。
The birth of Jesus is actually just one side。
of the whole Advent story.。
In fact, the season of Advent historically。
in the global church for over 2000 years。
actually contains two sides to its story.。
Yes, it is the side of the story。
of the arrival of Jesus as a child in Bethlehem,。
in the manger and everything that we've celebrated usually,。
but it is also the story of Jesus coming back。
to the world again at the end of all things。
as a conquering king.。
Advent, if you will, holds intention。
these two parts of the Christmas story.。
Christmas, you may not realize,。
is not just about the birth of Jesus.。
The birth of Jesus starts the redemptive story。
of Jesus Christ.。
And so Advent as a season for the church。
also looks forward in longing for the reality。
of the return of Jesus at the end of all things.。
And when he comes back, he will, if you will,。
complete that total story of redemption,。
of humanity and creation.。
Advent is the wonder of longing。
for Christmas to be complete.。
It celebrates the birth and the return of Jesus.。
If you will, Advent is kind of emphasizing the bookends。
around the redemptive story of Christ,。
his birth and his return with the idea。
that if you could really understand。
what is there at the end of all things,。
if you can really understand what it's like。
to long for Christ to come and step back into this world,。
if you can understand that, that actually critically。
helps you to fully understand what happens on Christmas day.。
Or I would say it a little bit more challenging。
to you in this way.。
If you really want to live as best you can。
as a Christian in this day's world,。
you don't need to know just only。
how your Christian story began,。
you also need to know how it will end.。
For once you see what Christ does at the end of all things,。
it makes everything that happens now。
come in to the right focus.。
I don't know about you, but I'm the sort of person。
that actually enjoys watching a movie。
the second time more than the first time.。
Is anyone else like that?。
Like when I watch a movie for the first time,。
I have no idea how that movie's going to end.。
And of course that creates an excitement。
when you're watching it, you're wondering。
how it's all gonna turn out at the end,。
but it also, at least for me,。
creates a little bit of anxiety.。
I don't know how this is all gonna play out,。
and I don't know if it's gonna end。
in a way that I'm gonna be happy with.。
Will it all resolve?。
Will I leave the theater at the end of watching the movie。
feeling like all my expectations were met?。
And so when I watch a movie for the first time,。
I'm kind of excited, I'm kind of nervous,。
I don't know how it's gonna turn out.。
When I watch it the second time, I know how it ends.。
And because I know how it ends, it informs so much。
of how I watch it for that second, third, fourth,。
or fifth time.。
It's fascinating to me that when I know。
how the movie's gonna end and resolve itself,。
I actually enjoy it so much more.。
And I get to see all the little nuances。
that I missed the first time I watched it.。
All those little things that the director included。
about characterizations and conversations。
and little plot turns and twists。
that actually when you've seen it before,。
you watch it and you go, ah, I know what that's really about.。
Oh, I know what's gonna happen to that character。
later on, right?。
And it brings this whole different perspective。
to the movie as a whole.。
I found for me when I watch a movie a second or third time,。
when I know how it ends, I actually find more purpose。
and joy in the journey itself.。
And I think it's exactly the same for the Bible,。
for our scriptures.。
I wonder if you've ever wondered why the Bible。
doesn't finish with the letters of the New Testament,。
these incredible letters that the writers write。
about how to live now in the reality of the life,。
death and resurrection of Jesus。
and letters that were written by the apostles。
into the churches to help them to understand。
what life is like now because of all that.。
Why didn't the Bible just finish with those letters?。
No, it doesn't.。
The Bible actually finishes with this crazy revelation。
that God gives John on the island of Patmos。
where he sees this apocalyptic vision。
of what the end of the world is going to be like.。
And he writes down all these crazy imageries。
and all these things that he senses God has given him.。
And right at the end of that book。
in chapters 21 and 22 of Revelations,。
John shows us what our end of the movie is like.。
And he paints this beautiful picture。
of how all the world is gonna be made new。
under this new Jerusalem that comes down to earth.。
And he shows us this picture of a new city coming down。
from heaven to earth, fulfilling Jesus's prayer。
when the disciples said, "How should we pray?"。
He says, "Pray that heaven will come to earth."。
And we see in Revelation 21 and 22。
that that's exactly what happens.。
Heaven literally comes to earth in this new city.。
And we find Jesus in the fullness of his presence。
living for all eternity in that city.。
And not only that, but in those last chapters,。
we see that every tribe and every tongue,。
every race and every background。
is there in unity together, praising God.。
And not only that, but because God is there in his fullness,。
we suddenly see the end of poverty,。
the end of pain, the end of suffering,。
the end of need for anything other。
than the incredible presence of God.。
We see the end of sin, literally,。
and therefore the end of death.。
And all that is in this city is a river that flows,。
a river of life.。
And there are trees on either side of this river。
and there are leaves for the healing of the nation。
and everybody who's a part of this city。
knows for the final time for the rest of their lives,。
the fullness of Shalom,。
what the peace of the Lord is all about.。
It's a glorious vision.。
And the Bible finishes on that vision.。
It's almost like God is peeling the curtain back。
and going, "Hey, this is how the movie ends."。
And in the same way that I enjoy movies so much more。
when I know how they're gonna end,。
'cause I can find more purpose in my joy of watching it,。
so I think God pulls the curtain back。
and shows us the end of all things,。
shows us Christ returning so that we can find more purpose。
and joy in how we live today.。
That, my friends, is Advent.。
That is the joy of this season.。
You see, the way we live today is not just informed。
by what we read in the Gospels.。
As important as the Gospels are,。
it's not just informed by what we see in the life。
and the death and the resurrection of Jesus.。
Actually, the Bible presents to us。
another way of understanding how to live today.。
It's done by seeing what is gonna happen。
at the end of all things。
and wanting to live on behalf of that vision today,。
saying, "If this is the future that we're heading into,。
"then how can I live today with purpose,。
"with promise that gives honor to the future。
"that God is gonna bring to all of creation?"。
So listen to this, church.。
Anytime that you fight for justice today,。
anytime you care for the poor, you give to the needy,。
you walk with the broken, you stand for the abused,。
you help the vulnerable,。
anytime that you liberate the oppressed,。
anytime that you find yourself being a voice of peace。
and collaboration and unity amongst people。
that don't like each other,。
you're beginning to live as if God's future is now.。
You're beginning to stand in such a way。
that you say, "Advent matters.。
"This longing that I have inside of me。
"for the coming of Christ again,。
"I can begin to show the world。
"what that place will look like."。
We can't create it now,。
but we can begin to prophetically live in such a way。
that people would say, "That's a future。
"I wanna be a part of."。
Oh, I'm getting excited.。
You're not, but I am, that's okay.。
(congregation laughing)。
That's because we wanna live。
on behalf of this grand vision today.。
This, my friends, is Advent.。
Not only the celebration of a Savior。
who stepped into the world as a child,。
but also the longing for the future arrival of a Savior。
who will step back into the world as a king,。
and then living on behalf of both of those realities today.。
That is Christmas.。
Christmas is so much more。
than just the reality of Jesus coming as this child.。
Christmas opens up for us a much bigger, wider,。
larger, redemptive narrative。
that when we celebrate。
in what has been pulled back from that curtain,。
and we know how the movie ends,。
and we live on behalf of both the birth。
and the return of Christ,。
we begin to show the world something different.。
Christmas should be the most transformative season。
in the life of the church than any season,。
because it is Christmas that our story begins。
and leads us towards its ultimate culmination.。
So it shouldn't surprise us。
that when the New Testament writers。
are writing about the life and the death。
and resurrection of Christ,。
and when they're writing the letters to the churches。
to encourage them,。
that there's this growing sense among the early church。
that they're desperate for the story。
to have its completion,。
that they're desperate for Christ to return.。
And so the New Testament is filled。
with all of these different speeches。
and ideas and writings about this return of Christ.。
There's a longing in the early church。
that Jesus would come back,。
because they realize that despite the fact。
that Jesus has been here in his life,。
death, and resurrection,。
despite the fact of his ascension。
and the sending of the Holy Spirit,。
there's still something that's unfinished in the story,。
not unfinished in the idea of salvation.。
It's important that you get this.。
See, salvation has been received to us in its fullness。
in the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus.。
Sin is conquered, sin has been overcome,。
and anybody who gives their life to Jesus。
and asks for the forgiveness of their sins。
is fully saved by him.。
Yet we also realize, don't we,。
that there's still an influence of sin on our lives.。
There's still an influence of sin in the world around us.。
And you see, the early church felt this.。
They saw the profundity and the power of salvation。
here in its fullness,。
and yet they recognized that there was still。
so much brokenness, sometimes within them,。
and a lot of times within their world.。
And they therefore cried out,。
Lord, if you could just return。
and do what you have promised that you will do,。
everything will find its rightful place.。
This is why right at the end of our scriptures,。
literally the very last thing that's written。
at the end of the Bible in Revelations 22,。
starting in verse 20, it says this.。
"He who testifies to these things says,"。
this is Jesus speaking, "Yes, I am coming soon.。
"Amen, come, Lord Jesus."。
Our Bibles finish on this incredible prayer,。
Maranatha it is in its original text,。
which means come, Lord Jesus.。
And if you were here last week,。
you'll remember this is not the come, Lord Jesus。
in the sense that right now,。
we don't have enough of your presence.。
We said last week, right,。
that the fullness of the presence of God is in us。
as we come to relationship with Christ.。
The fullness of the presence of God is in this world。
in its omnipotence.。
This is not a crying out for more of some sort。
of momentary infilling.。
This Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus,。
is a crying out for Christ to return,。
crying out for that Revelation 21, 22 picture。
so that the world would know the shalom。
that God has always promised it.。
This is the church saying, we are not satisfied.。
There is more.。
I love this idea because when the New Testament writers。
write about this, they understand that the world。
is still not quite as God desires it to be.。
And this fueled their evangelism.。
This fueled their compassion.。
This is why they were just and hopeful.。
This is why they spoke into all areas。
of the Greek Roman society.。
This is why the gospel went out from Jerusalem,。
Judea, Samaria, and to the ends of the world。
because they realized that they had a role to play,。
that because Christ is coming back,。
because there is the river of life,。
because sin will be gone, because all the nations。
will come together and worship God,。
there is work to do today.。
So if Christmas is anything for us,。
if Advent is anything for us,。
it should be the most mobilizing season。
that the church experiences.。
It should light a fire inside of us to say,。
there's a story that needs to be told to this world。
because right now we're sitting between these two bookends.。
He's come, He is coming.。
And we're in this moment,。
which is one of the most precious moments of history。
where we've seen Him, we know Him, and He will come again.。
The New Testament and scholars,。
as they've studied the scriptures,。
they've coined this term that we all live in。
as this idea of the now but not yet.。
It's an academic term, but it's helpful, I think.。
The now but not yet is the season that we're in.。
The now but not yet is the longing and the cry of Advent.。
Now in the sense that Christ has come,。
and as Carla shared during our communion time,。
was on the cross and said those words, it is finished.。
That the wages of sin are death,。
but because of Christ and His resurrection,。
those wages have been paid for.。
We now know the fullness of life in relation to Him.。
It is done, that's the now.。
But yet there is this not yet.。
There is the reality that sin is still at work,。
there is this reality。
that we still see brokenness in the world.。
There is this reality that people still suffer,。
that there is still death,。
and that longing inside of us for that reality。
that we see at the end of Revelation 21 and 22,。
and that glorious picture of the return of Christ.。
That sits on our hearts together as well.。
And so we're in the now, we're in this not yet,。
and as we sit in the middle of that,。
that's where we find Advent.。
That's where the Maranatha cries from our spirit.。
Come, Lord Jesus, 'cause I wanna see my family revived.。
Come, Lord Jesus, 'cause I wanna see my businesses.。
I wanna see the workplace.。
I wanna see everybody that I know know you.。
Come, Lord Jesus.。
This is the crazy thing about the now but not yet.。
Christ is coming again.。
And because he's coming again,。
that should change everything now.。
There's so many ways of thinking about this in Scripture,。
but I wanna read you one of the passages。
that I find most helpful,。
particularly when it comes to the idea。
of Christmas and Advent.。
And this is found in Paul's writings。
in 1 Corinthians 13.。
And if you're just journeying。
or beginning your journey of faith here,。
maybe this passage is well-known to you。
just from the weddings you've attended.。
It's often the passage that's read at weddings.。
If you've been a Christian here for many years,。
you'll know this passage.。
The first seven verses are this beautiful chorus about love,。
and it's one of the most celebrated sections。
of Scripture that we have.。
But I wanna read the following verses。
after those first seven.。
This is verses eight to 13.。
And in these verses, we see a slightly different story.。
In fact, Paul goes from this glorious idea of what love is。
to the reality of the now but not yet time。
that we're living in.。
And when you read them, it feels a little bit jarring,。
but when you open up what Paul's trying to say,。
everything begins to fit together.。
These verses I'm about to read, if you will,。
if you're here and you have an older sibling,。
and this happens quite a lot in our culture in Asia,。
if you've got an older sibling。
and your parents think that the sun shines out of them。
all the time, and you've always felt like。
you're in the shadow of your older sibling,。
then you'll resonate with these verses, okay?。
'Cause these verses are in the shadow。
of that amazing section on love,。
but there is so much wonder here.。
Let me read this to you.。
1 Corinthians 13, starting in verse eight.。
Love never fails, but where there are prophecies,。
they will cease.。
Where there are tongues, they will be stilled.。
Where there is knowledge, it will pass away.。
Notice this, for we know in part and we prophesy in part.。
But then he says this, but when perfection comes,。
the imperfect disappears.。
You see, when I was a child, I taught like a child,。
I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child,。
but when I became a man,。
I put these childish ways behind me.。
Now we see, but a poor reflection as in a mirror,。
then we will see face to face.。
Now I know in part, then I shall know fully,。
even as I am fully known.。
And these three things remain, faith, hope, and love.。
But the greatest of these is love.。
I love how Paul begins this,。
this whole section he's speaking about the now,。
but not yet tension of how Christ has come,。
and yet we long for him to come again.。
Look at what he says at the start.。
He says, love never fails,。
but where there are prophecies, they will cease.。
Where there is tongues, they will be stilled.。
Where there is knowledge, it's gonna pass away.。
For we know in part, we prophesy in part,。
but when perfection comes, the imperfect disappears.。
He's saying this, look, we need to understand。
that we're longing for a time where perfection comes.。
He's speaking there metaphorically。
about the return of Jesus.。
And when perfection comes, all this imperfect stuff。
that we're feeling right now, it disappears.。
And he names some really amazing things.。
He talks about prophecy,。
and he talks about wisdom and knowledge,。
but he says, you need to understand。
that even in the prophetic,。
even in the wisdom and the knowledge,。
we only prophesy and we only know in part.。
We don't know everything he's saying to the church.。
We can't because we're in this now, but not yet.。
There's a longing and there's a crying out。
because we don't have all the answers,。
that there are these gaps.。
We don't know it all he's saying.。
But when perfection comes, everything that's imperfect,。
even all the lack of knowledge and all that goes。
because suddenly perfection is with us.。
He comments again, let me read this to you in verse 12.。
He says it this way.。
He says, "Now, in this time of now, but not yet,。
"we see, but a poor reflection is in a mirror.。
"But then when Christ returns, we will see face to face.。
"Now I only know in part, then I shall know fully,。
"even though right now I am fully known."。
This is so profound.。
I want you to remember, this is Paul writing to his church.。
Paul, who previously was the Hebrew of Hebrews,。
was one of the most learned people。
in the Jewish religion of his day.。
He prided himself on the knowledge of scripture。
and the knowledge of understanding of who God is,。
his character and his life.。
That was what he celebrated.。
And he has the humility now,。
now that he's come into relationship with Jesus,。
now he's come to understand the birth。
and yet the second coming.。
Now he's come to realize the now, but not yet。
that he's sitting in.。
He has the humility to write to his church。
and says, "I know only in part."。
I don't have it all figured out.。
I love this.。
This frees me as a pastor, 'cause I can stand before you。
and say, "I don't have it all figured out."。
'Cause if the apostle Paul didn't have it figured out,。
I don't have it figured out either.。
He writes to his church.。
Now remember, 1 Corinthians is a letter Paul's writing。
in reply to another letter that Paul's written,。
sorry, that the church wrote Paul.。
We don't have a copy of that letter,。
but the letter that the church wrote Paul。
had a list of all these questions in it for him.。
And in 1 Corinthians 13,。
he does try to answer some of those questions.。
But then in this section, he says,。
"But you need to understand, church,。
"even though I'll do my best to give you some wisdom here,。
"we only prophesy in part.。
"We only are wise in part.。
"I don't know it all," he's saying.。
In other words, there are going to,。
in this now but not yet season,。
there's going to be gaps, gaps in our knowledge,。
gaps in our prophecy, gaps in our understanding,。
gaps in our vision.。
We're not gonna have it all sorted out.。
But then he says this, "One day when he returns,。
"we will see face to face,。
"and in that moment, I will know it all.。
"But right now, I don't."。
But then he says this crazy thing.。
He goes this, he's kinda like,。
I almost feel like as he's writing this,。
he leans into the church.。
He leans in and goes, "But guess what?。
"I know one who does know it all.。
"'Cause although right now, I don't have all the answers.。
"Although right now, there are gaps for me,。
"there is one that I know who is coming back.。
"And when he comes back, we're all gonna know.。
"But right now, even though I don't know everything,。
"he right now knows everything.。
"He right now has all the answers.。
"He right now can step in and show himself to his fullness.。
"I may be seeing in a mirror slightly darkly.。
"There's no filter for God," he's saying to the church.。
"There's no break for him.。
"He sees everything fully right now."。
And it's almost like Paul is saying,。
it is okay for me not to know everything,。
because I know the one who does.。
Okay, let me break this down for you a little bit more,。
'cause I wanna show you really the beauty of this,。
and then show you how this links into Advent.。
Has this been helping so far?。
I'm glad I came back.。
(congregation laughing)。
I'm just gonna go back to Spain.。
Walk another 800, no, okay.。
All right, so I apologize up front for my writing,。
but follow this, okay.。
Here's what Paul is saying in 1 Corinthians 13.。
He's basically going, look, he's like,。
there is this world right now that we all know,。
and this world is kinda messed up.。
The word he uses, he says, it's imperfect, right?。
There's this imperfection that's happening right now。
in our world, but then he says,。
you also need to understand that there's this world。
that's coming when Christ returns.。
This is gonna look like a sun, but it's not.。
It's the amazing, redeemed, and renewed world。
that Christ is in the center of.。
And he says, this world, this time, is perfect.。
So right now, he's saying, we know imperfection。
in the future when Christ returns,。
everything will be perfect.。
And he's basically saying, we live right now。
in this now, but not yet tension。
between these two times.。
This is the lot for every human being right now.。
We're sitting in between the imperfect that we know,。
the fact that I don't know it all,。
that there are gaps for me,。
and this perfect return of Christ that's gonna happen.。
And he basically says, you need to understand。
that there, in this time, there are gaps.。
There are gaps for all of us, Paul is saying.。
And the reason why he's trying to teach his church this,。
the reason why I'm trying to teach you it here this morning。
is because it's actually in these gaps。
where Advent is found.。
Let me explain that.。
If you're anything like me, and I'm sure you are,。
we don't like the gaps.。
The gaps during the now, but not yet time。
are the hardest things about this time.。
I don't know about you,。
but I wish I did have all the answers.。
But there are gaps, and there are gaps in our lives.。
Things happen that we have no control of.。
Something takes place in our work that we can't explain.。
There's a breakdown in a relationship, and it's hurt us.。
There are wounds that we're carrying。
that we don't seem to get healed from.。
There are questions that we're holding on our hearts。
that don't seem to get answered.。
There's stuff that we've been doing with God。
that we thought would bring a breakthrough。
doesn't seem to be a breakthrough.。
There are gaps, Paul is saying,。
between the time of the imperfect。
and this perfection that will come.。
But we so as human beings don't like the gaps。
that here's what we do in the gaps.。
We try to fill them with ourselves.。
We try to look within ourselves to try to fill the gaps.。
In other words, we want to control。
what Paul is saying here is uncontrollable.。
We wanna try to fill those gaps.。
So for example, I don't know, Lord,。
when I'm gonna get a job, how am I gonna get a job?。
And we try our very best and we get so stressed。
of trying to work things out.。
Or I don't know, Lord, how I'm gonna save my marriage。
and we're trying our best, but we can't sort it all out.。
We work really hard and we get ourselves。
into places of worry, anxiety, stress, depression,。
because there are gaps, we don't like gaps,。
and we're trying to fill the gaps with ourselves.。
Are you with me?。
And what Paul's writing to the church is,。
no, you gotta understand, we live in the now but not yet.。
This is the cry of Advent.。
You wanna know what Advent is?。
Advent is standing in the gap。
and not trying to solve it yourself.。
Advent is standing in the gap and crying out and going,。
I know in part, but that doesn't mean I'm a failure.。
What it means is that I know the one who knows it all.。
The gap is where the carol comes.。
Oh come, oh come, Emmanuel, and ransom captive Israel。
who mourn in lonely exile here in the gap,。
waiting until the Son of God appears.。
Maranatha, come Lord Jesus, is not an escapism.。
It's not some sort of whimsical idea.。
It is the cry of those that live in the gaps。
who are saying I know and trust and believe。
that there is one who can set all things right.。
The gaps are an opportunity, yes,。
for us to potentially worry and get stressed。
and overwhelmed and depressed,。
but the gaps are also one of the most profound invitations。
you will ever have to a greater relationship with God.。
Could it be that God has given us this now but not yet time。
and given us these gaps that we like to try to control。
and fill so that we can't control and fill them,。
but instead discover Him?。
That, my friends, I believe, is what Christmas is all about.。
It's what Advent is.。
And here's the crazy thing.。
Paul goes, and you know what?。
God in His mercy hasn't left us alone。
trying to maybe some people might be able。
to work this out, some won't.。
He says there's actually three things that God has given us。
that are values, vehicles, ways in which we can reach out。
beyond ourselves towards Him who knows it all.。
Verse 13, and now these three things remain,。
faith, hope, and love.。
The greatest of these, he says, is love.。
This is Paul basically saying you've gotta understand。
something that's really, really important here.。
He said in the place of these gaps, there is faith,。
there is faith, there is hope, there is love.。
We may not have all the answers,。
we may not be able to always get all the answers,。
but it is not that God stands back,。
looks at our gaps in our lives, and goes,。
(laughing)。
Paul's saying, no, no, we're not alone in the gaps.。
We have the gaps.。
I don't know it all, He knows it all.。
One day I will know it all.。
When He comes back, I hope He comes back soon,。
but in this moment, He's deposited by His Spirit。
and by His church and in His Word three things。
that enable me not to have all the answers,。
but enable me to reach out of myself and towards Him,。
enable the gaps to become a place of advent,。
of longing, of wishing, of hoping for the arrival of God.。
Faith inside of me that believes。
that He wasn't just born in that manger as a child,。
but He will come back, and that the curtain。
that is being pulled back in Revelation 21 and 22。
is not just some fantastic idea,。
it's the literal thing that will happen。
at the end of all things.。
Hope, hope that that story is part of my story.。
Hope that even when I feel a long way away from the coming,。
I can trust that God will do what He says He's gonna do.。
Love, love that so fills me and changes me,。
that because I know He was born, I know He's coming back,。
and I know He's here in the fullness。
in His presence right now, I have a place to know。
and feel and encounter love, and because He first loved me,。
I can now love.。
That's why this is the greatest of the three,。
because I now can walk in the love of Christ。
to all those around me, and if I really want to advent well,。
then it's found in how I love true and well.。
Faith, hope, and love.。
Paul says this is it, and I think that's。
the most beautiful summary of what advent is all about.。
This bookends of Christ's redemptive story。
that welcomes us in to the reality that there are gaps, yes,。
and that those gaps are hard and uncomfortable, yes,。
but those gaps can lead us to the one who knows it all.。
If there's not a better message for Christmas,。
then I don't know what there is,。
and my prayer is that you will go。
into your workplace tomorrow and go,。
let me tell you about the bookends,。
because now I know about the bookends.。
Let me tell you about the gaps.。
You've got a gap, I've got a gap.。
We've all got gaps, but those gaps。
don't have to be the end for you.。
They're not the end for me, and although maybe。
those gaps don't get answered the way。
I think they're gonna get answered,。
those gaps are an invitation to find the God of the gaps.。
So here's what I wanna encourage you to do this week.。
I wanna help you to just reframe some things in your mind,。
to find that longing inside of you。
that is what advent is all about,。
and over the next three Sundays,。
we're gonna take faith, hope, and love,。
and we're gonna use these three themes。
as the center point for understanding。
both the birth of Christ, 'cause those three things,。
faith, hope, and love, are framed in the birth of Christ,。
and then see how they are framed in his second coming,。
and as we do that, I pray that you will encounter。
more faith and hope and love in the now,。
but not yet in between.。
So to get you prepared for that,。
here's a little exercise I want you to do this week,。
and by the way, when I say I want you to do it,。
I actually mean that I want you to do it.。
I don't want you just to take a photo of the slide。
and go, "That was a nice sermon today."。
I actually want you to do it,。
because I think it can help change your heart。
and get you ready for advent.。
So I'm gonna kinda get out of the way,。
and you can take a photo of this next slide,。
but let me read you these four reflections。
I want you to think about this week.。
Where and what are the gaps in this now,。
but not yet time that overwhelm me or overwhelm you?。
What are some of the longings that sit within you。
that are far beyond your own ability to achieve?。
Where do you see in your own life。
the tension between the fullness of salvation received,。
and yet the reality of the ongoing work of sin?。
Okay, that's a very personal one for you.。
What burdens do you carry for yourself,。
others, or this world。
that burn a righteous justice within you?。
That's the positive thing.。
That's the, "Hey, let's fight for injustice now.。
"Let's make this work.。
"Let's stand for the poor and the needy."。
What burdens sit within you。
that are like a cry of your heart to help those around you?。
That's the cry of advent.。
In the same way, what sin still overwhelms me at time。
and seems to have a grip on me,。
even though I know it's fully paid for,。
but it still seems to have a grip on me,。
the honesty of that, that's also advent.。
So it's this beautiful reflection。
that we can find in ourselves。
that helps to trigger our understanding。
of where we're at as we enter into this Christmas season,。
where we look at both the birth。
and the return of our Savior.。
Does that sound helpful to you?。
All right, can we just pray together?。
Let's pray.。
Father, as we enter into the season of advent。
here at The Vine,。
and as we focus on faith, hope, and love in the weeks ahead,。
as we celebrate your birth,。
understand this longing we should have for your return,。
putting those two things into balance。
as bookends around your redemptive story,。
and as we find ourselves as Paul。
has so beautifully shown us this morning,。
the gaps that are there,。
and yet the liberation we can have from fear,。
anxiety, worry, depression, from not knowing it all,。
and instead the gaps being a springboard,。
a catalyst towards greater trust, faith, hope, love with you.。
Father, that's my prayer for every person here at The Vine。
and everybody watching online in this moment.。
My prayer is that they would find themselves。
catalyzed at advent this year,。
to find that longing inside of them,。
the crying out within them for the Son of God to appear,。
that the gaps that they are very aware of。
in their lives right now,。
where anxiety and fear and worry。
has been the thing that has driven their sense of the need。
to control the gaps in their lives.。
I wanna pray for releasing right now in the name of Jesus.。
I wanna pray that this advent season。
will be a shift for many in this room,。
for many watching online.。
I believe that where the gaps have created anxiety,。
the gaps are now gonna create faith in the name of Jesus.。
The gaps are now gonna birth hope in their hearts。
in the name of Jesus.。
The gaps are gonna create a deeper love for you。
and for others around them in the name of Jesus.。
What the enemy has stolen from the gaps.。
Lord, I pray that you would recatalyze。
by your spirit amongst the vine over the next three weeks.。
Lord, I pray that you would light that advent fire in us,。
that we would look forward to celebrating your birth。
in the manger of Bethlehem that night,。
but we would also long for your return as a reigning king.。
And that would fuel and drive our purpose and our ministry。
and our sharing of the gospel with our friends and family。
of all the action that you're calling us to do.。
And it would more than anything catalyze the gaps.。
Where we say like Paul would humble himself。
before his church and say, I don't have all the answers,。
but I know the one who does.。
And Lord, if there's anyone in this room。
or watching online right now,。
where they would say they don't know that God.。
Father, I wanna pray that this moment right here。
and the moments over advent as we lead up。
to the celebration of the birth of Jesus。
would be a birthing moment for them.。
Your scriptures speak about a new birth,。
that we become a new creation in you。
when we come into relationship with you.。
So Lord, I wanna pray anyone in this room,。
maybe they've been invited here today。
by a friend or a family member.。
And maybe as they think about Christmas,。
they've always wondered what's this really about?。
Is it just about buying things?。
Is it just commercial?。
Is it just material?。
And they're here today realizing。
that it's about a much bigger story,。
a story that they're swept up in,。
that they are caught up in.。
And if you're sitting here right now。
and you don't know Jesus,。
you are caught up in this crazy story,。
whether you realize it or not.。
And the Bible tells us that Christ is returning。
and that we will see him one day face to face.。
My prayer for you is that you,。
as you face him face to face,。
he would say to you, well done,。
my good and faithful son or daughter,。
my good and faithful child.。
And he will welcome you into that incredible city。
where for all eternity,。
you will be able to spend with him.。
And so I wanna pray just as our eyes are closed,。
heads are bowed,。
if anyone in this room,。
that's your desire today.。
You've heard what we've been talking about today。
and you're like, you know what?。
I realize that the gaps in my life。
are causing more anxiety in me than I would need.。
And I want the gaps to be filled with something else.。
I want that faith,。
that hope and that love that Andrew was speaking about.。
Well, I want you to know that that's available to you。
right in this moment.。
And while the journey of being a Christian。
is a lifelong journey,。
it begins with a simple prayer.。
It's a prayer that just acknowledges。
that you know what the gaps are like,。
acknowledges that you have been living in those gaps,。
that you don't have all the answers,。
that there is sin and brokenness in your life.。
And that prayer is a simple acknowledgement。
that there is one who is perfect,。
one who is full of love,。
one who can save you from that brokenness within.。
And so if that's you,。
I'm just gonna invite you now。
as all of our eyes are closed,。
I'm just gonna invite you to pray.。
And in fact, we're all gonna pray together,。
but if this is you,。
this is you praying this for the first time,。
this is your way of saying,。
I wanna this to build and create。
and have this relationship with Jesus Christ.。
And if you pray this prayer for the first time,。
I want you to either share with the person。
who invited you afterwards,。
or you can come forward and share with our team。
or share with somebody outside afterwards.。
There's lots of people here。
that would love to help you in this journey。
that you're about to step into.。
And so as a church community,。
and if this is for you for the first time,。
all of us are gonna pray this out loud,。
but this is for you too.。
Let's just pray this, Lord Jesus,。
I wanna thank you for dying for me,。
for going to the cross,。
to pay the price for my sin.。
I recognize that I have done some things。
that have hurt you,。
that have hurt me,。
that have hurt others.。
And I ask in this moment that you would forgive me.。
And I invite you to now come into my life.。
I invite you to forgive me.。
I accept your grace.。
And I ask that your Holy Spirit,。
your love and your joy and your peace。
would be in me now,。
now and forever.。
And I thank you for this,。
in Jesus' name, amen.。
All right, we can open our eyes.。
Why don't we give a round of applause for anyone here,。
whether online, in this room.。
May that prayer for the first time,。
we're so excited for you.。
Please do share with the person you came with。
or share with us afterwards.。
We'd love to help you in your walk.。
For the rest of us, well, for all of us,。
why don't we stand together?。
And we're going to just respond together。
in one more time of worship.。
(gentle music)。
