♪ And echoes in our hearts ♪。
♪ The greatest one of all ♪。
♪ His face shines brighter than the sun ♪。
♪ His grace as boundless as the sky ♪。
♪ He reigns with healing in His wings ♪。
♪ He reigns with healing in His wings ♪。
- Imagine with me for a moment, a church.。
This is not a church in the singular,。
on its own and distinct, but a church in the plural,。
united across a nation, joined in purpose,。
focused on building up God's kingdom, one life at a time.。
It is a church that has at the heart of its DNA,。
the grand narrative of the redemptive story of Jesus Christ,。
and that celebrates in the freedom and grace。
that such a story brings.。
This church is not constricted by the walls of a building,。
but actively engaged in the community it is planted in,。
desiring for God's kingdom to take root。
and bear fruit in local soil.。
A church that sees salvation as holistic,。
transforming God's people for God's work,。
and equipping a generation to represent God's heart。
to the poor, the weak, the oppressed, and the persecuted.。
Imagine this church committed to seeing the family。
as integral to all that it's called to be and do,。
involving intentional, committed,。
and authentic relationships across all levels.。
It is the sort of place where both the young。
and the old feel cared for, supported, and equipped.。
A church where people of all backgrounds and traditions。
come to feel at home, a cultural mosaic。
that honors and embraces a richness in diversity。
that marks us as the body of Christ.。
It is a church that is willing to innovate。
and express faith creatively,。
reflecting the boundless limits of God's creativity。
as glory to Him.。
A place where people gather, hungry for the presence of God,。
and passionate to see this invade all aspects。
of their lives, where they seek to develop。
an intelligent, spiritual faith,。
rooted in God's word and driven with prayer.。
A church that does not make its Sunday services。
the exclamation mark of its existence,。
but instead the comma in its ongoing sentence,。
a time of service, love, and engagement。
that inspires and emboldens all equally。
for the conversation that lies ahead.。
A church that cares, disciples, rebuilds, renews.。
This is our city.。
This is our church.。
This is our home.。
- Good morning, everyone.。
Do you feel hot?。
Yes, no, yes?。
There's hot outside but cold inside, right?。
Remember, bring your coat next time.。
Here, this is a tradition of Divine Church,。
the auditorium always so cold.。
No, just because the weather change.。
So, stay health.。
I know that some of us, our brother and sister,。
maybe get sick because of the unstable weather.。
But yeah, here we have got provision and also protection.。
So, pray for those.。
They're not feeling well, but also welcome you guys。
to join us physically today in church.。
So, I think, except the weather is hot outside,。
did you enjoy the hot coffee?。
Yeah, yeah, today is our very first time。
to have coffee serving.。
So, they're still in busy.。
Can we give a big hand to our coffee team?。
Yeah!。
(audience applauding)。
One man coffee team.。
Now, we're recruiting new member to serve.。
So, they're very good heart.。
And hopefully, this is the last coffee。
so we can start the service.。
(laughing)。
But you guys can still enjoy coffee after service.。
So, yeah, we have so many good brother and sister。
like you guys to serve this home together.。
Hey, actually, today is a very special Sunday.。
Today, we step into, we call it Holy Week.。
This is the tradition of our church.。
Today is Palm Sunday.。
Palm Sunday is to remember how Jesus go into Jerusalem。
before he die for us.。
So, may I invite you all to stand?。
I would like to read one scripture to you all。
and see how Bible say about when Jesus go into Jerusalem,。
how people welcome him into Jerusalem, the city.。
Hosanna to the son of David.。
Bester is he who comes in the name of the Lord.。
Hosanna in the highest.。
Let us pray.。
Jesus, we welcome you.。
2,000 years before, you die for many, many of us.。
And today, you remind us how we have that heart。
to welcome you, how we adjust our expectation。
because you ask us to have a white expectation。
to welcome you.。
We praise you because of your grace and love.。
We praise you because of your salvation.。
We praise you because you humble yourself.。
You humble yourself and die for us。
and prepare for your future glory.。
We say Hosanna because we know you are the Lord.。
We say Hosanna because you are the King of King.。
We worship together today here。
because we know you are our God.。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
♪ I see ♪。
♪ I see the King of glory ♪。
♪ Coming on the clouds with fire ♪。
♪ The whole of ships ♪。
♪ The whole of ships ♪。
♪ I see his love and mercy ♪。
♪ Washing over all our sin ♪。
♪ The people sing ♪。
♪ The people sing ♪。
♪ Hosanna, Hosanna ♪。
♪ Hosanna in the highest ♪。
♪ Hosanna, Hosanna ♪。
♪ Hosanna in the highest ♪。
♪ I see a generation ♪。
♪ Rising up to take their place ♪。
♪ With selfless faith ♪。
♪ With selfless faith ♪。
♪ I see a near revival ♪。
♪ Stirring as we pray and sing ♪。
♪ We're on our knees ♪。
♪ We're on our knees ♪。
♪ Hosanna, Hosanna ♪。
♪ Hosanna in the highest ♪。
Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest.。
Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest.。
Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest.。
Jesus, we welcome you.。
Heal my heart and make it clean.。
Open up my eyes to the things I've seen.。
Show me how to love like you have loved me.。
Break my heart for what breaks yours.。
Everything I am for your kingdom's cause.。
As I walk from earth into eternity.。
Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest.。
Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest.。
Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest.。
Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest.。
Hosanna in the highest.。
Hosanna in the highest.。
[MUSIC - "AMAZING GRACE"]。
[MUSIC - "AMAZING GRACE"]。
Amazing grace, how sweet the sound。
that saved a wretch like me.。
I once was lost, but now am found.。
Was blind, but now I see.。
'Twas grace that taught my heart to fear。
and grace my fears relieved.。
How precious did that grace appear。
the hour I first believed.。
My chains are gone, I've been set free.。
My God, my Savior, has ransomed me.。
And like a flood, His mercy reigns,。
unending love, amazing grace.。
The Lord has promised good to me.。
His word my hope secure.。
He will my shield and possession be。
as long as life endures.。
My chains are gone, I've been set free.。
My God, my Savior, has ransomed me.。
And like a flood, His mercy reigns,。
unending love, amazing grace.。
My chains are gone, I've been set free.。
My God, my Savior, has ransomed me.。
And like a flood, His mercy reigns,。
unending love, amazing grace.。
[MUSIC - "I'LL BE THERE"]。
I'll be there just to be someone's hope,。
someone there to shine.。
But God who called me here below。
will be forever mine, will be forever mine.。
You are forever mine.。
My chains are gone, I've been set free.。
My God, my Savior, has ransomed me.。
And like a flood, His mercy reigns,。
unending love, amazing grace.。
My chains are gone, I've been set free.。
My God, my Savior, has ransomed me.。
And like a flood, His mercy reigns,。
unending love, amazing grace.。
And like a flood, His mercy reigns,。
unending love, amazing grace.。
And like a flood, His mercy reigns,。
unending love, amazing grace.。
[MUSIC - "I'LL BE THERE"]。
[PIANO PLAYING]。
I cast my mind to Calvary, where Jesus bled and died for me.。
I see His wounds, His hands, His feet.。
My Savior, all that cursed the tree.。
His body bound and drenched, His tears, they lay Him down.。
And Joseph's tomb, the entrance sealed by heavy stone.。
Messiah still and all alone.。
Oh, praise the name of the Lord our God.。
Oh, praise His name forevermore.。
For endless days, we will sing Your praise.。
Oh, Lord, oh, Lord our God.。
[MUSIC - "I'LL BE THERE"]。
So ring the bell at break of dawn.。
The Son of Heaven rose again.。
Oh, trample death, where is your sting?。
The angels roar for Christ the King.。
Let's do this again, and on the third.。
And on the third, at break of dawn,。
the Son of Heaven rose again.。
Oh, trample death, where is your sting?。
The angels roar for Christ the King.。
Come on, let's praise Him.。
Oh, praise the name of the Lord our God.。
Oh, praise His name forevermore.。
For endless days, we will sing Your praise.。
Oh, Lord, oh, Lord our God.。
Oh, praise the name of the Lord our God.。
Oh, praise His name forevermore.。
For endless days, we will sing Your praise.。
Oh, Lord, oh, Lord our God.。
He shall return in robes of white.。
The blazing sun shall pierce the night.。
And I will rise among the saints.。
My gaze transfixed on Jesus' face.。
And I will rise among the saints.。
Oh, praise the name of the Lord our God.。
Oh, praise His name forevermore.。
For endless days, we will sing Your praise.。
Oh, praise the name of the Lord our God.。
Oh, praise the name of the Lord our God.。
Oh, praise His name forevermore.。
For endless days, we will sing Your praise.。
Oh, Lord, oh, Lord our God.。
Oh, praise the name of the Lord our God.。
Oh, praise His name forevermore.。
For endless days, we will sing Your praise.。
Oh, Lord, oh, Lord our God.。
One more time.。
Oh, praise the name of the Lord our God.。
Oh, praise His name forevermore.。
For endless days, we will sing Your praise.。
Oh, Lord, oh, Lord our God.。
Oh, Lord, oh, Lord our God.。
Oh, Lord, oh, Lord our God.。
[APPLAUSE]。
Praise Your name.。
Jesus, we praise Your name.。
You are our God.。
Jesus, You are our God.。
We praise Your name because You promised.。
We praise Your name because You come.。
Jesus, may You come to us.。
Jesus, Your promise is never-asking.。
Jesus, we thank You for Your coming.。
We thank You for Your grace and Your salvation.。
We thank You for letting us know You are calling us together to praise You.。
When we praise You, You have the glory.。
When Your glory comes, we praise You.。
Lord, we thank You for Your grace.。
When we say Hosanna because we know that You are our Savior and You will die for us.。
And now today, You call us together with our voice, with our heart, with our worship.。
We praise You all together in one voice, in one voice because that You give us the Holy Spirit with us.。
So now today, may You speak to us.。
May You speak telling us how much You love us.。
When we receive Your love, we know how to respond.。
We have that individual salvation but also we as a church, that is Your body.。
We come together.。
You call us church.。
We are Your brother and sister.。
We are the son and daughter of God.。
We thank You for giving us this very special, important identity so that we can praise You,。
replace You in the name of Jesus.。
Amen, amen, amen.。
We give a big hand together to Jesus one more time.。
And also we thank You, our worship team.。
You need us to have a very powerful worship.。
Thank you so much.。
Thank you so much.。
So please have a seat.。
Please have a seat.。
Welcome again.。
I'm Ivan, one of the pastors of Divine Yunlong.。
May I know who is the first time to come?。
If you are first time to join us to come to our Divine Yunlong, may you just wave your hand.。
Wow, hello, welcome.。
That kind of familiar faces, that's first time to join us.。
So welcome.。
I also recognize many of you.。
Yeah, we know each other for a little while or even maybe some of us, you come at the first time to explore,。
to know this church community.。
I would like to invite you to scan our QR code.。
Some of you may join the WhatsApp group before, but this is a new one because of some technical issue.。
We have the technical issue so that we cannot use the old one anymore.。
We cannot send message out from that WhatsApp group.。
So I would invite you all to scan again for this WhatsApp channel.。
From this, we will announce regularly on time to time about our church update,。
some church-wide events and some important information for this WhatsApp.。
So this has a high privacy so you won't see each other's number, but you will join that community.。
If you are not able to scan it right now, we have two screens, that signature TV, you can scan it after our service.。
Okay, next thing is, I would like to update you a little bit about our kids' arrangement.。
After service, as usual, we will pick up our kids.。
But I want to share one thing.。
Like a few weeks ago, actually that is not the first time, like months ago, also happened once.。
We have a little kid, very cute little kid, went away from this building.。
Yeah, but God really protect us.。
So no worry, it's all safe.。
What I want to mention is, during the service, once the service starts, we will close the first door.。
The first door means close to the staircase.。
We will close the door and for the parents, you will have your sticker, right?。
Register your children.。
So when you send your kids to K4C, that means they are safe.。
Of course, when they are with you, they are also safe.。
But we invite you to keep your eyes on your children.。
So after the service, we have five minutes to pick up your kids.。
After you pick up your kids, you can still enjoy our community time as usual.。
But also peace after then, because the door will open for others to leave the church building.。
So is this good?。
So why don't we pray for our children so that they will have a high protection, provision, grace and love, all together with our prayer.。
Father, we thank you so much to have these beautiful children with us.。
They are treasure, they are your daughter and sister.。
They are our family member.。
So Lord, may you protect them, may you teach them, grow them, lead them, and also strengthen us as a church, as a community, as a family.。
We can grow them all together, love them all together.。
May you also strengthen our teachers, they can deliver your love and message to these beautiful little children.。
We pray that in the name of Jesus. Amen.。
So now is your time, boys and girls.。
Enjoy your cars.。
So if you are three to five, go to Miss June as well.。
Six to twelve, also go to Miss June first.。
And then if you are in need, we have a playroom for zero to two years old children with the parents, accompany with them in that playroom.。
We have a live stream for you guys.。
So now it is your time to say hi and yeah, to chit-chat a little bit with your fans behind you and then I will come back to have an announcement.。
Thank you.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
So next week, what will happen next week? Who knows?。
Baptism, yes, baptism. We will have beach baptism in Gold Coast Beach.。
So we have at least five candidates will join our baptism this time.。
So yeah, hallelujah. We will celebrate all together after our English service.。
After English service at 1.15, we have a first coach arrange just leave here.。
Yes, so that's a transportation arrangement, but that need your sign up to reserve a seat for you。
because there's a limited seat, but we can have an other coach if there really have more people would like to join.。
So please sign up as soon as possible so that we can arrange the coach seat for you all. Is it okay?。
Yes, okay. And then next thing is after the baptism, we celebrate all together as adults and of course many kids with us.。
So we will celebrate Easter with our kids all together. So we will have Easter Egg Hunt in Gold Coast Beach.。
We have brother and sister already get prepared to celebrate Easter with all the children with you all.。
And actually, I can see that that children heart in you guys. I think you guys can also hug the eggs.。
Yeah, have a fight with the kids, right? As a family together. Gold Coast, very close.。
So our baptism service will start at 2.15 in Gold Coast and then after that we will have Easter Egg Hunt.。
So please sign up so that we can order more eggs for you guys. Yeah, to make sure kids have enough eggs as well.。
So please join us. We have, I believe that we will have a very great and also best Sunday, next Sunday.。
And also after that, I would like to invite you all to have a lunch, but you need to buy it by yourself.。
We have our, you should bring your own lunch every month. Actually, every fourth week of the month, we will have bring your own lunch.。
We would like to really connect with you all. If you are new, I highly recommend you to join us, encourage you to join us.。
When we come together, if you want to know more church, not how I tell you how the church is, it's really you join us.。
Talk to our people. They are church. This is church. So please join us after service.。
We will set up here right after the English service so that we can enjoy our meal and our fellowship time all together.。
Is it good? Of course, we have coffee right there after the service. Yeah.。
Okay. And so now it's offering time. I would like to invite our welcome team to pass around the offering buckets.。
I would like to again to take this opportunity to thank you all for your generosity.。
Since March, we have our Vision Sunday. We really can see how we all together as one body to support the vision that God giving us.。
Week by week, we see that how you all pour out your heart, your time and also financially to support church.。
And that is Jesus Church and how we can work together in his kingdom.。
So, yeah, we thank you so much for all your willingness and also the commitment to Jesus kingdom.。
So let us pray for our offering so that we can have one heart to see how Jesus can really use that to bless the city, to bless the people around us.。
Let us pray. Father, we thank you for your calling. That is the calling for us.。
There is a very clear lead leading us guidance for us to contribute to your kingdom.。
So long may you use that money. May you use this single contribution into your kingdom.。
May your kingdom come. May you also teach us how to use our time, our talent, our energy, whatever you put in our life.。
That also the offering you're asking us to give. So long may you use it in your goodness, in your will and also to bless the people in this city, in this season.。
We thank you in the name of Jesus. Everyone says Amen.。
So today we have our very beloved brother from Wan Chai. Let us give a hand together to Pastor Justin.。
Yeah, thank you. Every time I see Justin, I don't know why, I just feel a ton of peace.。
I always want to hug you and give you a kiss, but not here because his wife is here today.。
Yeah, somewhere. Yeah, your children. Yeah, children. We love your daddy. Okay.。
And yeah, so why don't we pray for Justin altogether for his preaching today.。
Father, we thank you for leading Justin to give him voice, to give him ideas, to give him wisdom, to give him strength,。
so that today he can deliver your message to us. May you anoint him so that he can fully receive and also pour out the words and your heart to us.。
May you also bless us to open our heart, open our ears to listen to you.。
And then we know how to respond to that words into our life altogether. We pray that in Jesus' name. Amen.。
Amen. Thank you, Ivan. Do I, is this here okay? Okay. All right. Good morning.。
My name is Justin, one of the pastors at the Vine Wan Chai, but I've been here a couple of times.。
I was here three weeks ago. My wife Patsy here. We're here together with our children.。
So thank you for having us. Thank you, Tim, for having us.。
Wherever you are, I know you're watching. Just want to say hi to you and Chris and Elle.。
Hopefully you're having a good time. We miss you. And so, yeah, before we start, I would like to pray for us.。
So I'm just going to pray again. Not saying that you're praying.。
But anyways, I just want to pray for us to receive today's words. So would you pray with me?。
Lord, we ask you to give us a humble heart, a listening heart, a receptive heart this morning.。
Father, I know all of us are going through different seasons. We're going through different obstacles.。
We're going through different things in our lives. We're holding and juggling different things.。
And so, Lord, you know that. And so we just ask you to speak a specific word to each of us here tonight, today, this morning.。
Father, in your name we pray. Amen.。
So I found this out this week. My friend told me that Yuen Long used to be and still is a very rich land for farming.。
And I know for those of us who live in Yuen Long, we work in Yuen Long.。
This is a specialty, especially before the 1980s. There were so many plots of vegetable land.。
There were grains of rice. And this rice and the grain would feed Yuen Long, the people of Yuen Long, but also the people of Hong Kong.。
And so I bring this up not just as a trivial, interesting fact, but I bring this up because it's profound for us today to worship together,。
knowing that we sit on a historically rich land for farming.。
And today we are going to talk about farming. We're talking about the parable of the sower, the seeds, and the soil.。
And I titled today's message, "A Parable on Grace and Listening."。
So right now, I just want to ask you to read with me. I'm going to read Mark chapter 4, verse 1 to 20.。
So I ask you to follow along with me.。
Verse 1. "Again, Jesus began to teach by the sea.。
And such a very large crowd gathered to him that he got into a boat on the sea and sat down.。
And the whole crowd was by the sea on the land.。
And he was teaching them many things in parables and was saying to them in his teaching, 'Listen to this.。
Behold, the sower went out to sow. As he was sowing, some seed fell beside the road, and the birds came and ate it up.。
Other seed fell on the rocky ground where it did not have much soil, and immediately it sprang up because it had no depth of soil.。
And when the sun had risen, it was scorched, and because it had no root, it withered away.。
Other seed fell among the thorns, and the thorns came up and choked it, and it yielded no crop.。
Other seeds fell into the good soil, and as they grew up and increased, they yielded a crop and produced thirty, sixty, and a hundred times as much.。
And he was saying, 'He who has ears to hear, let him hear.'"。
Verse 10.。
"As soon as Jesus was alone, his followers along with the twelve disciples began asking him about the parables.。
And he was saying to them, 'To you has been given the mystery of the kingdom of God, but for those who are outside, everything comes in parables,。
so that while seeing, they may see and not perceive, and while hearing, they may hear and not understand.。
Otherwise, they might return, and it would be forgiven them.'"。
Verse 13.。
"And Jesus said to them, 'Do you not understand this parable? How will you understand all the parables?。
The sower sows the word. These are the ones who are beside the road where the word is sown,。
and when they hear, immediately Satan comes and takes away the word which had been sown in them.。
And in a similar way, these are the ones sown with seed on the rocky places,。
who when they hear the word, immediately receive it with joy, and yet they have no firm rooting in themselves, but are only temporary.。
Then when affliction or persecution occurs because of the word, immediately they fall away.'"。
Verse 18.。
"And others are the ones sown with seed among the thorns.。
These are the ones who have heard the word, but the worries of the world and the deceitfulness of wealth。
and the desires for other things enter and choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful.。
And those are the ones sown with seed on the good soil, and they hear the word and accept it and bear fruit thirty, sixty, and a hundred times as much."。
So this passage may be familiar to many of us. We've maybe heard it many times, but this morning I ask, no matter how many times you've heard this,。
Jesus begins and ends this parable with a very profound and straightforward command.。
He says, "Listen, church, listen to what I have to say. I want you to listen and hear what I'm trying to say to you,。
because I do personally believe there's something inherently important He wants to get us to hear.。
But before we jump into today's sermon, I want to ask you, when was the last time you heard Jesus speak to you?。
I want you just to think about the last time. It could have been this morning. It could have been this week.。
It could have been years ago. It could have been... Actually, I don't know.。
And I want you to think, what did it mean to you that Jesus would speak to you?。
The word that you received, what was that like? Where were you?。
What place in your life did Jesus speak to you, and you just thought, "Wow"?。
I want you to hold this, because I know the basis of many of our lives.。
We, professionally or personally, we do a lot of listening. And I think a lot of us, naturally,。
we listen when we find something important or something that's worth listening to.。
And, you know, as I was thinking about this for myself, I remember one time, I think I heard God.。
It sounded like God, certainly. It matched with Scripture.。
My friends and family also said, "Yeah, this is perhaps God."。
And I decided that, you know what, I'm going to listen to this. I'm going to lean in. I'm going to respond.。
I'm just going to live this out. And here I am, 14 years later, as a pastor at The Vine.。
And that was a time when, in faith, it could have been God. Maybe it wasn't God. I don't know.。
But I trusted it was God. Now, this morning, I'm saying,。
I really actually believe that every opportunity we have to listen can change our life.。
Maybe not in such a radical way that I'm talking about, but every word has the potential to change the course of our heart.。
So that's why today I want you to listen. And I chose today's passage for a very specific reason,。
because this passage calls us to seriously reflect on our state of listening.。
Are we good listeners? Because I think a lot of times I'm a terrible listener. I'm a bad listener.。
But I know I can also be a better listener. And so in this parable, listening is equated to receptivity to God's Word.。
It's being able to take God's Word, to take it seriously, and to contemplate what is God saying to us.。
And so this parable, therefore, calls us to reflect this morning on our ability to listen to God in a way that builds our intimacy with God.。
Because I know this is our theme this year across the two Vine churches.。
And so I want us to reflect on our state of listening, how we listen to God this morning.。
So I'm going to break it down this morning. I'm going to give you some context for this passage.。
I'm going to go into detail about what this passage is talking about, what Jesus is talking about.。
And I want to end this message to share on, for us to reflect on God's grace for us. Is that okay?。
All right. So some context for this passage. In verse 1 to 2, Jesus, as we read, is already in a boat by the shore.。
He's teaching a large crowd about God's kingdom and everything about God and who He is and the mysteries of God's kingdom.。
In verses 3 to 9, Jesus tells us this parable about a farmer sowing seeds and what happens to these seeds.。
In verse 13 to 20, Jesus privately explains this parable to His disciples and other people that were around listening.。
And so the imagery of this parable of a farmer sowing seeds would have been very familiar to first century Christians,。
especially the farmers that were in the crowd listening to Jesus.。
They would have understood just the whole process of what it meant to sow seeds and to the hard work that took to protecting the seed,。
making sure the seed germinates, watering, protecting the crops from the elements,。
and making sure that at the end of the season that there would be yield, there would be a harvest.。
And it was – I can't even imagine being a farmer, but here we are.。
And so there's a few characters, main characters in this parable, and it is the sower, the seeds, and the soil.。
So the sower, of course, is the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.。
Or the sower could be any Christian that preaches God's Word concerning Jesus and God's kingdom.。
The seeds in this parable, the second character, is God's Word or the gospel about Jesus.。
And lastly, the soil, I thought long and hard about this, but the soil, I think today, I want us to think about it as conditions for bad listening and for good listening.。
So that's what the soil represents, conditions for bad and good listening.。
Now, they are – I don't think they're permanent states, but I think they're situations and seasons that we find ourselves in,。
and we can easily move from a season of bad listening to a season of, "Oh, I can hear something. I can perceive something."。
Church, at the heart of what Jesus is teaching about today in this parable sits a discipleship issue.。
Discipleship is a fancy word for our journey with Jesus.。
Discipleship is a process where day in, day out, we learn to pray, we learn to be with God, we learn to worship together,。
we learn to wrestle with God's Word, and we learn to grow in the midst of troubles, persecutions, afflictions, heartaches, suffering.。
And so what Jesus is teaching us today is what happens when we follow him and the process of how we can grow as disciples.。
Jesus wants us to know, and I want you to know, that being his disciples is extremely difficult, and I think you already know that.。
It is challenging. It is difficult. Why? Because we will always encounter barriers and obstacles that prevent us from being with him.。
And as Christians, as I said, we will go through seasons where we grow, we flourish, we just are so excited.。
We wake up and we want to be in God's Word. We want to talk about God's Word.。
But at the same time, we also go in seasons where it is so difficult to hear God's Word.。
It is difficult because I do not want to hear God's Word.。
It is difficult for the circumstances and the obstacles that we are going through,。
but sometimes we are unable to grow, we are unable to hear God's Word, is what this parable wants to teach us about.。
And the last thing I want to say about context is that I think today it is helpful for us to think about our Christian growth,。
our discipleship process that is dependent on two things.。
One, our growth is dependent on the sower. It is dependent on God's grace.。
It is God's grace and his sovereignty and his love for us and the church that we grow.。
And the second thing, we grow because of our own effort, our willingness to hear God's Word,。
our willingness to really trust that the living God wants to speak to me, wants to speak to us today.。
And so it is healthy to think about both as we listen to this parable.。
Okay, are you guys ready? We are going to go into detail on what this parable is speaking about.。
So in this parable, this farmer, he is sowing four batches of seed into the ground.。
And each batch, it is actually the same seed, it falls on four different types of soil conditions.。
And so right now I want to explain to you what each soil condition represents according to this passage.。
And I also want to speak about what obstacles and barriers each batch of seed represents。
and what happens as a result. Okay?。
So the first soil condition is those seeds that fall along the path.。
And so in verse 3 and 4, the seeds fall beside the path where the birds come in。
and immediately they eat up all the seeds.。
And in verse 15, Jesus, when explaining to his disciples, he says that when the Word is preached and heard,。
Satan immediately comes in and takes away what was sown so that there is no chance for the seed to germinate.。
So the first obstacle is in fact Satan, who is aggressive and who is so hostile to any potential disciple to--。
basically Satan does not want anyone to hear God's Word, so therefore he comes and plucks away God's Word.。
And so while we should not cower and live in fear, I think it's wise and prudent though to remember that yes,。
there are forces of evil that are against us, that resist God's Word, that resist us from hearing God's Word.。
And this is a reality that we live in.。
And I don't know about you, but this happens to me all the time, you know?。
Every time we hear an encouragement, something amazing happens in our hearts that we attribute to God,。
then immediately Satan comes in and whispers something and we're reminded of a fear.。
We start doubting, "Is this really God? Maybe it's not even God."。
You know, every week when I'm servicely-- when I'm with you guys, this happens.。
And I think really we just have to remember that not to be scared, but to know that at times Satan does--。
it directly wants to take away and steal away what God is wanting to give us.。
So the second soil condition is the rocky road.。
So in this soil condition in verses 5 to 6, after scattering the seed, the seeds immediately spring up。
because it says in Scripture that they have no depth in the soil.。
And when the scorching sun comes up, this little seed that sprouted, it withers because it had no rooting.。
It had no deep rooting in the soil.。
And when Jesus was explaining this to his disciples in verse 16 and 17, Jesus says,。
"These are the people who hear God's Word and immediately they receive it with joy."。
They are so excited that God is speaking to them.。
But their joy is short-lived because when the sun comes up, when persecution comes,。
when trouble comes on account of the Word, these listeners fall away.。
So the second obstacle is trouble. It's suffering. It's hard times. It's persecution.。
And it's going through these that causes disciples to fall away.。
Now, I want to explain falling away.。
Once again, it's not a permanent state, but falling away, I think, describes an inability to follow Christ in that moment.。
And so we all encounter these moments where we're unable--。
we are unable to sustain a closeness, an intimacy with God, and that's what this soil represents.。
And once again, I want to remind us this is normal. This is not an abnormal--。
like this only happens to 10 or 5% of us. This is a fact of our daily lives.。
And historically, this was a very common problem, a common reality for the early church。
because being persecuted was synonymous with being a Christian back in the first century.。
You know, a lot of Christians, they remained faithful to God even unto death, and we called them martyrs.。
They were willing to die for their faith.。
Now, of course, there were many that stumbled and fell away, and we don't actually get to hear about their accounts.。
And we do remember Peter, right, in the Gospels, and he vowed vigorously that,。
"Lord, I will never deny you," and remember what happens.。
In his humanness, in the light of persecution, he was scared and he fled.。
Now, of course, when we read the whole Gospel, we realize that Peter grew from that,。
and he became one of the greatest disciples, and, you know, it says that the church was built upon him.。
And so maybe not every one of us would struggle or have struggled to a point of death,。
but some of us I know have been persecuted.。
A lot of us have been persecuted because of our faith,。
our family members not agreeing with this lifestyle choice that we made.。
And I know, actually, I've heard of some of you who work in very aggressive work environments。
where being a Christian is actually frowned upon, but yet somehow you persevered, somehow you remained faithful.。
And, you know, for us in Hong Kong, I don't know what the future brings.。
None of us do. I don't know how religious freedom is in the future,。
but I think listening has an impact today.。
Our listening today in God's Word has an impact in how we respond tomorrow.。
So, so far, I just want to recap in these first two soil conditions。
that the ability to retain Jesus' Word meaningfully in these first two soil conditions is temporal。
because, one, the seed never had space to grow,。
and also these two soil conditions, they prevent good listening.。
Now I want to talk about the third soil conditions, which is the thorns.。
So in verse 7, "When the seeds fell among the thorns,。
the thorns immediately came up and choked it and suffocated the seed so that no crop could grow,。
so that seed could not germinate.。
And when explaining to his disciples, Jesus said that these are those who heard the Word,。
but the cares of the world, the worries, the temptation of wealth,。
and the desire for other things prevented the Word, God's Word, from bearing any fruit."。
And so the third obstacles, we're talking about the worries that we have,。
the temptation of wealth, or even affluence.。
And these desires, they distract us, they entice us, they seduce us away from the path with Christ.。
And so the seeds never germinate or grow because we put our resources on all these other things。
and not on protecting God's Word, so allowing it to grow.。
And I hate to mention this this morning, but I have to.。
You know, the things that we're talking about here is maybe our mobile devices, right?。
It's maybe Netflix. It is, you know.。
Some of us, even for good intentions, you know, I overwork all the time, and that's a struggle,。
but yet it pulls me away from God.。
I'm two months to finishing my three-year master's right now,。
but the cost of the last three years has been immense in terms of time away from family,。
time away from God, and I feel it.。
And so there is a cost to our discipleship, and Mark actually highlights,。
and I want you to remember this and think about this in your life,。
that greed and affluence and having enough or wanting more will hinder and affect God's work in us.。
In Mark 10, verse 21, you remember this, there's a rich man.。
He turns away from Jesus' call because he had too much wealth,。
and he didn't want to give up the system in which he exploited the poor.。
And then there was Judas who betrayed his own master, Jesus, for a small, small amount of money.。
And so this morning, I think God would want us to soberly reflect。
why it is so difficult for the rich to enter God's kingdom, right?。
Why it is so difficult, and I think we understand.。
And so if I can pull together so far what we've been talking about,。
this morning we're talking about discipleship,。
we're talking about conditions for good listening and bad listening,。
we're talking about the obstacles that will come in our way,。
in all of our ways, and affect and impact our faith.。
And once again, I want to say that this parable is talking about our spiritual reality.。
This is the tension which all of us will have to learn to navigate,。
and that's why Jesus is saying, "Church, I want you to hear me.。
I want you to listen to what I'm saying to you."。
And actually, this warning, this parable,。
it speaks so much about the scribes and the Pharisees in the Gospels.。
Imagine how many times they heard Jesus preach.。
Imagine how many times they heard God's word, but yet, what happens?。
Satan comes and steals the word from them, and they stop believing, they cannot believe.。
They vigorously reject the idea that God is Lord,。
so they kind of fall away in their discipleship.。
And of course, ultimately, they fell away from Jesus。
because they did not understand what Jesus was doing.。
That is why they couldn't have a relationship, a discipleship with Him.。
And so I want to say and acknowledge that the tension is real.。
And lastly, I want to talk about the good soil.。
In the fourth soil condition, in verse 8,。
"The grains fall on good soil, and these crops,。
they grew in an abundant harvest of thirty, sixty, and a hundredfold."。
When the early church, when they immediately heard of bearing fruit,。
that these crops bore fruit,。
they would immediately equate this to faithfulness to Christ.。
So what this means for us is that to be faithful to Christ requires time.。
It requires a process for seeds to grow.。
It requires overcoming.。
And in terms of obstacles, the last batch of seeds grew to a harvest。
because these listeners were able to understand God's word.。
They were able to wrestle with God's word.。
They were able to trust that God's word would lead them through。
whatever obstacle and hindrances would come.。
And as a result, these seeds, these listeners grew abundantly.。
They grew to a point of surpassing all human understanding.。
And so I think to remain in good soil is to humbly allow God to lead us。
and to teach us what it means to grow deep roots。
so that we do not lose sight of the new life that Jesus calls each of us into,。
which is God's kingdom.。
And so you can see now that the different soil conditions。
that the first centuries Christians navigated through。
is not so much different than the discipleship reality。
that we live in right now.。
And preparing for this message,。
I reflected on the last 25 years of being a Christian.。
I reflected on the last 14 years of working in a church,。
which I think is one of the hardest places to work.。
I think from experience.。
And so I just want to list out in relation to today's parable。
some of the struggles I've gone through.。
It's going to just come up here.。
And you can go through this list,。
and I am sure you can relate to how and imagine how these things。
can cause us to be distracted, could cause us to stumble,。
can cause us to be enticed away.。
But I just want to speak into a few of these personally.。
In the last 10 years, I think all of us have experienced people leaving Hong Kong,。
family, friends.。
That's been hard, especially working in a church.。
But add to that, I've experienced a lot of brothers and sisters。
who walked away from the faith.。
I think they decided that it was just too difficult to sustain discipleship,。
and that is discouraging.。
There are times where I just ask the Lord.。
I would talk to my wife, and maybe I should just do the same.。
It just would be easier.。
Another thing is apathy.。
I think all of us have to be very careful with apathy.。
We get offended. I get offended.。
Something happens, and my heart just gets harder.。
It grows harder.。
It's just less receptive to God's Word.。
When Jesus talked about the rich man having the dangers of being wealthy,。
which I think a lot of us are, would say that we are actually rich when we think about it.。
That is distracting.。
That is difficult to navigate.。
How do I be faithful and enjoy the life that we have?。
I struggle with that. I feel bad all the time.。
Then lastly, I don't think I've been persecuted to a point of death,。
but I remember one time I was trying to help this girl escape。
her abusive relationship with her boyfriend.。
We were in Wan Chai in the coffee shop, and the boyfriend, unbeknownst to us, came,。
but he refused to come in the church.。
It's like he couldn't.。
He was just angry. He was powerful. He was strong.。
He just kept on yelling obscenities.。
I just thought that it was an attack.。
It was Satan using the situation.。
That really scared me.。
All that to say, I think looking back, I can attest to the fact that。
God's grace has always been in these situations when I was going through it.。
Sometimes I just was not aware, but yet God's grace was there leading.。
Yet, I also reflect back on all the effort I had to put in to get out of certain soul conditions,。
certain barriers.。
I think to this day, I'm glad that I stand before you, and I still confess Christ.。
I still love Christ.。
My love looks a little different than before, and I'm okay with that,。
but also I still believe that we have so much to do as a church.。
I share this because I think one of the most difficult things for us to practice as a Christian。
is the very thing that Jesus is talking about in this parable.。
How many of us hurry from event to event, thing to thing,。
especially for us parents or teachers, and there's just always needy children,。
which is a reality, right?。
But there is just so many things, and how many times do we say, "Hey, Lord,。
I'll come back to you later.。
I'll do this later.。
I promise.。
After I do all this, I will come back to you."。
But when you think about it, that's thorns at work, right?。
That's thorns at work in our life, and if there's one thing this morning I desperately want to convey。
to each of us here, what I want to say is that it is extremely easy and effortless.。
It takes zero effort to stop growing and to walk away from God if we choose that.。
It's effortless, and it's very easy to get sidetracked, especially in moments of crisis,。
especially when we are persecuted, when we are suffering, when our hearts are broken.。
But I want to remind us once again that even if our hearts are broken,。
even if we are suffering in this moment and we cannot bear it, God is still faithful,。
and he's still going to scatter seeds generously until one seed hits the good soil.。
It hits our heart, and it grows, and for that, I think it's worth it.。
And recently, I think as an encouragement, I was very encouraged that these three, four soil conditions,。
it actually represents our universal human Christian experience,。
that this doesn't just happen to holy people. It happens to all of us because we are holy.。
We love God, and Satan would do everything to get us off course.。
And so I want to say that no Christian is immune from falling away。
just as no Christian couple is immune from divorce.。
I think Satan will continue to do his work, and we will always have trouble。
once we solve one problem, another problem comes in.。
We know that at work, at the home, in our house, I feel like we fix something good.。
Oh man, the lights are working again, and then we have another problem.。
So this parable, it's in a bleak and black and white way, it reminds us of two realities.。
One, we are either on the way towards Jesus with Jesus, or we are somehow being led away.。
We are somehow struggling. We are somehow caught up in thorns,。
and we are learning to get out of those conditions.。
But I want to comfort you, I'm not going to end this message in gloom and doom.。
I know it is difficult to be a Christian, and I think you know that.。
It is difficult, and that's okay. But it's not impossible because of God's grace.。
So I want to now talk about God's grace for us as a church.。
And God's grace in this parable is an invitation for us this morning to reflect。
and to enter a space of deeper reflection through listening.。
To think about God and how we are with Him through a deeper listening.。
But also listening invites us to a place of deeper surrender, to do things differently,。
to put away and to learn how to be a better listener.。
And I believe by listening we increase our receptivity to hear God's word,。
to understand God's word, so that we can actually ultimately protect God's word growing in our lives.。
And so this morning right now to conclude I want to offer us three ways that God's grace is evident in this parable.。
And the first way is that God's grace reminds us that the kingdom of God is always at work,。
even when we are not aware.。
And this is a hope, this is a promise for us that the sower that is Christ。
will continue to sow seeds and scatter seeds generously until it germinates beyond our wildest imaginations.。
And so Mark is reminding his listeners back then that against any setbacks,。
against any principalities, against any obstacles,。
God's kingdom will still advance and God's kingdom will continue to be victorious.。
So for those of us here this morning, we're listening to God's word,。
we're learning to listen to God's word, we should continue to do so.。
For those of us who are faithful in preaching God's word,。
we continue to share the gospel with our family, with our colleagues, with our friends.。
Let us remain steadfast, let us remain faithful because each seed has hope to grow。
and it just has to hit a good soil.。
And I think a lot of us are here because God's word hits good soil and we heard God and we're here.。
The second thing God's grace reminds us of this morning is God's paradoxical perspective on suffering.。
I think only in God's kingdom does hardship, suffering, persecution enables Jesus' community to grow and advance.。
That our discipleship, our journey with Jesus does not diminish,。
but it actually yields a harvest if we are willing to harvest that.。
And the harvest here in this parable is really to know Him.。
You know, the harvest that triples, that goes 60-folds, 100-folds,。
it's the reality that we can know a living God, to know that His word is true, His promises is true.。
That is the harvest that we desire.。
And so we are able to overcome barriers and obstacles because we believe that the word of God is true,。
that He is true and that He is faithful to us.。
And the last, I think God's grace reminds us in this parable that each of us have to,。
each of us bear the responsibility to stop and to listen.。
That each of us have this responsibility to listen to God's word because our very lives,。
our very faith depends on understanding what Jesus is saying to us.。
I think there are, as I said, I think there's too many ways for us as Christians to fall away,。
for our hearts to feel cold, for us to be distracted and enticed and seduced.。
And so it is our responsibility to figure out whether we want to be in that good soil.。
It's our responsibility to ask God to teach us how do we set deeper roots into the ground。
so that when the sun comes, when persecution comes, we are not blown away easily.。
It is our responsibilities to ask our neighbors to help us weed out some of the thorns in our gardens,。
in our lives so that we can stay focused on Jesus.。
And so church, I want to just lastly say, let us take seriously this responsibility。
so that we can minimize the chances of being uprooted, of being deceived and being enticed away.。
And so this morning, I will really end now.。
I want to just ask us how should we respond, how can we respond this morning?。
Thank you, Owen.。
And this morning, really, once again, I'm talking about our discipleship journey,。
our relationship with Jesus.。
And I think by learning to listen, we are able to understand the four soil conditions,。
the spiritual tension, the reality that we live out our faith in,。
and that we can hopefully avoid some of the traps and we can continue to just grow。
and to enjoy Jesus and enjoy our worshiping of Jesus together.。
And if we do learn to listen, then we can continue to rely on God's Word。
and then we are able to retain the vision of what it means to be Christ followers in this world。
so that we can allow other people and bring other people to experience this harvest.。
And so church, I want to just ask you to really take seriously today。
to take time to stop and pause and to listen to what God might be saying to you this morning.。
Because without God's Word, I think we are only followers by name and by association.。
What makes us--I remember what Pastor John was preaching three weeks ago--。
what makes us salt and light is that we understand God's Word.。
It's God's Word that brings life to us, and it's our ability to share God's Word with others。
that makes us distinctly different and attractive.。
And that is the only really way we can have conversations about God,。
you know, through His Word anyways.。
And so I just want to encourage you.。
I know maybe some of us, we feel that we're in unfruitful soil.。
And to you, if that is you, I want to say do not panic.。
Do not be ashamed. Do not be afraid.。
You know, these conditions that we're in, they're not permanent.。
They're seasons. Maybe it's been a very long season for you.。
But I just want to encourage you, and I want to pray for you in a moment。
that we would find our way back to God's soil.。
We would just hold on to that seed that God has given you.。
And so I just--last thing I want to say that even if we momentarily walk away from God,。
once again, the faithful sower will continue just to sow his seeds。
until his seeds hit the good soil for us.。
And so, Church, can I pray for us? Can I ask you to stand?。
Father, we thank you for your Word.。
And Father, we ask that this morning you would give us the courage to continue just to listen.。
And Father, for those of us who are facing some obstacles, we are facing hardship,。
we find it difficult to hear your Word, we feel distracted,。
we feel there's too many things going on in our lives.。
And Father, I pray for--I pray, Father, that your seed would be attractive,。
your Word in us would lead us out of these moments, Lord God.。
Father, you would teach us how to hear your Word today,。
what to do with your Word today, how to make time to just grow the seed, Lord God,。
that you've given us.。
And Father, I pray that you give us courage each day to live faithfully to you,。
to follow you, Jesus.。
And so, Father, right now we choose to worship you.。
Father, we choose to follow you, and that is our desire.。
And Lord, I just want to pray that your Word would be more desirable than the riches of this world.。
It would be more desirable, more--。
Lord, it would just--Lord, we would just have--。
Lord, we would just want your Word so badly,。
and that we would just learn to treasure your Word in our life.。
That is what I want to pray for us today.。
And so, Jesus, we turn our eyes again to you in worship, in surrender, in reflection.。
So would you lead us in your name we pray, amen.。
Let's worship him together.。
[music]。
Amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me.。
I once was lost, but now I'm found, was blind but now I see.。
With faith I taught my heart to fear, and grace my fears relieved.。
How precious did that grace appear, the hour I first believed.。
My chains are gone, I've been set free.。
My God, my Savior, has ransomed me.。
And like a flood, His mercy reigns, unending love, amazing grace.。
The Lord has promised good to me, His words my hope secure.。
He will my shield and portion be, as long as life endure.。
My chains are gone, I've been set free.。
My God, my Savior, has ransomed me.。
And like a flood, His mercy reigns, unending love, amazing grace.。
My chains are gone, I've been set free.。
My God, my Savior, has ransomed me.。
And like a flood, His mercy reigns, unending love, amazing grace.。
The earth shall soon dissolve like snow, the sun forbear to shine.。
But God who called me here below will be forever mine.。
My chains are gone, I've been set free.。
My God, my Savior, has ransomed me.。
And like a flood, His mercy reigns, unending love, amazing grace.。
And like a flood, His mercy reigns, unending love, amazing grace.。
And like a flood, His mercy reigns, unending love, amazing grace.。
Dear Father, we thank you for your amazing grace.。
Dear Father, we thank you that you called us to come to you so that we can become the good soul.。
That's the willingness.。
And we thank you that Jesus, you know how the reality, it brings the difficulty for us, but you never forsake us.。
So that's not an easy task, because Jesus, you are doing something amazing.。
That's not easy, that's difficult, but you said it's done.。
And that is also will be done on us.。
Lord, may you help us this word today we receive and go deeper and deeper into our heart.。
To be the good soil, that seed can grow deep and deep with your love and grace into our heart.。
That seed is coming to transform us.。
When we have a posture to really welcome your words and your work, work on us,。
you bring the transformation in our life with the grace and love that we receive today, in the coming future, day by day.。
Lord, we thank you for leading us today.。
Thank you for touching us so that we know how to respond to you.。
By the reflection, by receiving love, by leaving out that amazing grace in our daily life.。
We pray that in Jesus name, Amen, Amen.。
Thank you, Justin, to give us amazing message, good reminder to everyone of us.。
And also we will have our prayer team here.。
So don't be hesitant to come to receive prayer and ask for prayer.。
And thank you for worship team.。
Yeah, we have two worship new member to lead us worship today.。
Thank you so much.。
And yeah, so now, please, parents, feel free to bring your kids, buy your food, enjoy your coffee.。
Yeah, I keep, you know, there's a verse say, important things need to say three times.。
So I keep reminding you guys to have coffee.。
This is the third time I remind you we have coffee serving you all.。
So one man bank, but we have, we invite everyone if you would like to serve together.。
Yeah, please talk to us. We can have like to show how that good hospitality to serve.。
Oh yes, don't forget the cost.。
We suggest that you have $30 for the cup of the basic.。
But of course we welcome all the love offering to contribute to this church.。
So thank you so much.。
See you guys during lunch or see you guys next week.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
