in Jesus' name, amen.。
- Thank you, Carla.。
Good afternoon, all of you.。
Most happy to share a word with you.。
Some 30 years ago, exactly this time,。
I continued my post-graduate training.。
By the way, I graduated from Hong Kong U.。
I know that some of you are coming from Hong Kong U today.。
So 30 years ago, I went overseas。
to this very, very small city.。
Okay, don't be offended if you came from that city.。
St. Louis, Missouri Midwest.。
Okay, I was doing an overseas fellowship training,。
and there I learned from a leading expert。
in my medical line, who had contributed tremendously。
in that particular field.。
So he made numerous attempts to introduce。
various new surgical procedures。
that really was the forefront of imagination at that time.。
But he overcame many hurdles and reticules along the way.。
Some of his attempts failed altogether,。
but there are many others that flourished。
and changed the surgical paradigm altogether.。
He always reminded us that not all new things are good,。
but all good things must be new at one time.。
How true.。
So in a sense, my mentor journeyed。
through many uncharted waters in his times,。
where he championed the advance。
of what is now commonplace, keyhole surgery.。
He contributed to bringing a whole new beginning。
in surgical practices.。
And I'm glad that I rode along on that wave.。
In fact, I found this word beginning an amazing word.。
In Greek, it reads, "akhi,"。
which carries the meaning of origin,。
the beginning event, early days.。
And I'm particularly impressed when I read through。
how different gospel writers begin their beginnings.。
So through the beginning of the story of Jesus Christ。
in the Gospels of John, Luke, and Mark,。
I hoped to explore the very subject,。
passing on, ending, and new beginnings.。
John 1, 1 says, "In the beginning."。
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God.。
And the Word was God.。
He was with God in the beginning.。
Now, it is groundbreaking to have a whole new understanding。
of the word logos, which is translated as Word,。
or living Word.。
And to understand that Jesus is that living Word.。
John also asserts that Jesus, the Word,。
was with God from the very beginning.。
And you appreciate how he refers to Genesis。
when he wrote the Gospel.。
The very first verse of the entire Bible,。
"In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth."。
And that was exactly the same beginning.。
We can read the creation account of the beginning。
as a celebration of God's goodness and faithfulness.。
And indeed, when he created, he said, "This is good."。
It is significant to note that all beginnings,。
all our beginnings, are very much anchored in his beginning,。
because he is the one who begins in creation。
in the first place.。
All that we have planned for is already obtained by God.。
And we celebrate new beginnings exactly。
because God has been good and faithful。
from the very beginning.。
How about Luke?。
Here is what he wrote.。
"Many have taken to draw up an account of the things。
that had been fulfilled amongst us,。
just as they were handed down to us。
by those who from the first were eyewitnesses。
and servants of the word."。
From the first, which is the same word as beginning.。
And what an awesome task.。
Handed down is a very strong word。
that is really passing on something precious。
and important to the next one.。
And in fact, in ancient times, including Jewish culture,。
oral tradition is the main way whereby truth。
was communicated along and from generations to generations.。
In fact, passing on of the oral tradition。
was the important basis for the spread。
of early Christianity.。
The gospels, as we know today,。
was actually written much later, probably after AD 70.。
By then, Jerusalem was destroyed by the Roman Empire,。
and the Jewish Christians were actually driven out。
of Jerusalem.。
But through the oral tradition, through the passing on,。
the very core message of Christianity was preserved。
and subsequently written down in the gospel.。
Passing on of truth is a noble task.。
The same significance of passing on。
was also emphasized by the Apostle Paul。
when he wrote to the church in Corinth.。
For what I received, I passed on to you。
as of first importance, that Christ died for our sins,。
according to the scriptures.。
The gospel permeated the entire Greek Roman world,。
and it is by believers who passed on the very truth.。
The next question for us is, as modern day believers,。
what have we got to pass on to others?。
My wife and I planned carefully for what we wanted。
to pass on to our two children, who are now adults,。
well, maybe some years down the road.。
So we drew up a will, which was duly signed。
by eyewitnesses, that our material estate。
would be equally distributed between the two of them.。
But I also wonder whether I've also passed on。
a rich spiritual inheritance to each of them.。
I'm glad that as my daughter entered into marital life,。
we passed on the love that we have。
for each other as a spouse.。
Besides loving God, loving our spouse。
is the single most important calling for us married people.。
As for my son, who is not yet married,。
I hope I can pass on to him my love for family,。
commitment to work, independence,。
and the ability to maintain hope。
in the face of life's challenges.。
I do recognize that my mom passed on to me。
a lot of pessimism and worries for tomorrow.。
So it takes conscious effort to connect with Jesus。
to renew my mind and my perspective。
so that I can bring joy into my own being。
and so that I can pass on joy to people around me.。
How about you?。
There are practical ways that we can pass on。
our love for people, our values, our hopes, and our dreams.。
I came across a few consecutive couples here in the Vine。
who are in the process of adopting children。
into their family.。
What a tremendous blessing that they shall be mutually。
for parents and adoptive children for each other.。
They are passing on the amazing love。
that is originated from our heavenly Father。
who calls each and every one of us into a family.。
And I admire my college mate。
who quit his headmaster job altogether。
to lead an organization that is responsible。
to write up the biblical or religious studies curriculum。
for all the secondary and primary schools here in Hong Kong.。
He's passing on biblical values。
to our very next generation.。
And he bridged many local churches,。
including the Vine at Yuen Long,。
to participate in the program.。
Many congregants volunteer as mentors in these schools.。
And along the way, with wisdom and with respect。
to the entire education system,。
they were able to bring many school students to Christ.。
What do you want to pass on to people around you?。
And while it is still early part of the year,。
how would you like to begin this year?。
Let's shall continue today's sharing on beginning and end.。
In a nutshell, interestingly,。
every beginning is the end of another beginning.。
And every beginning should be aimed。
towards a predetermined end.。
So how are we going to understand this?。
Well, maybe we can draw a reference。
from the book of Hebrews,。
where we are asked to fix our eyes upon Jesus,。
the pioneer and perfecter of faith.。
The root word of pioneer in Greek is that of akhi,。
our key word today, beginnings.。
Whereas perfecter is rooted in the Greek word,。
telos, the end.。
So Jesus sees us through from the beginning to the end.。
So let us throw off everything that hinders。
and the sin that so easily entangles.。
And let us run with perseverance the race marked out for us,。
fixing our eyes on Jesus, the pioneer, the beginner,。
and the perfecter of faith.。
Now we just talked about passing on,。
but paradoxically, sometimes new beginning。
is also about closure of the past.。
Let's refer to the gospel of Mark。
to look at how this interesting interaction。
between endings and beginning.。
Mark one, the beginning of the good news。
about Jesus, the Messiah, the son of God.。
As Jesus walked beside the Sea of Galilee,。
he saw Simon and his brother Andrew。
casting a net into the lake, for they are fishermen.。
Come, follow me, and I will send you out to fish for people.。
At once, they left their nets and followed him.。
Now this is a call for a new beginning,。
but it actually begins with a closure of a prior chapter。
for Peter and the first disciples.。
This calling of the first disciples,。
as recorded in Mark's gospel,。
is not following a particular miracle or a great sermon.。
It begins as a simple call。
to four ordinary people to follow him.。
It's a simple call for ordinary people like us to follow him.。
The Sea of Galilee is a beautiful lake.。
In the first century, the main staple of food。
is actually fish, not meat in that sense.。
The fishing industry in the Sea of Galilee is so prosperous。
that the catch was not only consumed in the local market.。
Fish from Galilee were actually exported as far away。
as Alexandria in Egypt and Antioch in Syria.。
So the fishermen in Galilee competed。
in the larger Mediterranean market,。
demonstrating the skill and probably their mastery of Greek,。
which was the international language。
of commerce and culture.。
So the fishermen Jesus caught。
were not necessarily just dispensable day laborers.。
To survive in the market, they need to be savvy。
and are probably successful small businessmen.。
On the backgrounds of these first generation disciples,。
somewhat like many of us here in this congregation,。
we work hard in the society,。
contributing in our own respective professions.。
Others are working in a booming or challenging business.。
And many of us are bilingual,。
and some are even engaged in international trade.。
Is Jesus also calling some of us,。
or rather all of us who happen to be in this city,。
but yet by his divine purpose?。
But to start with,。
there needs to be some closure to prior chapters.。
The cross is laid on every single Christian.。
The first suffering in following Jesus,。
which every believer need to experience is the call,。
is the call to abandon the attachments of this world.。
As we embark on our journey to follow him,。
we surrender ourselves to Christ in union with his death,。
we give our lives.。
Thus it begins.。
The cross meets us at the beginning of our journey.。
Van Hove wrote very heavy words in his famous book,。
"The Cause of Discipleship."。
When Christ calls a man,。
it bids him come and die.。
Following Jesus is a costly and serious matter.。
Our beginning start with letting go of the past,。
of the old is a kind of death,。
and a picking up of our cross.。
I shared a very similar experience and challenge。
some 40 years ago,。
but with a very dissimilar choice。
from that of the disciples.。
I was about to enter medical school,。
and on that particular summer,。
the theme of the church camp was,。
surrender ourselves to serve.。
So I hesitate to embrace the call,。
and I would not like to end my chapter and my career,。
which has not even started.。
So I wrestled, I made a subtle decision,。
maybe this call is not for me.。
If anything, that should be responded。
to some years down the road.。
Now very sadly, that deferral to some years down the road,。
to avail myself, turned out to become decades.。
In fact, I backslided, I detour,。
and it took a long while for me to come back to Jesus.。
I wondered what my path could have been。
if I had made a different response。
to the call in the first place.。
Well, one never really knows,。
but as I've just shared,。
that chapter has closed,。
be it a bad or a good choice.。
Fast forward, I've been attending this church。
for the past 16 years,。
and I served as elder for the past nine years.。
I still remember the first time。
where we gathered on a hot summer evening,。
and that was without air conditioning,。
in the unfinished auditorium,。
that we attended the very first worship service。
here in the wine.。
The auditorium was as hot as a furnace,。
but our passion drove us to complete the renovation.。
I also remembered in the early days,。
we were so short of cash and funds,。
we didn't even have enough money flow。
to pay our employees' monthly salaries.。
We knelt, we confessed our sins,。
and we prayed for God's favor.。
And it was through the faithfulness of God。
and of the congregation that sometime down the road,。
we were able to pay off the debts,。
and we remained financially stable.。
Here in the church,。
we also witnessed incredible growth。
beyond our imagination,。
with more than 2,400 people。
attending our four Sunday services for a season.。
Yet, we also went through the challenges。
of social movements and the COVID restrictions.。
After COVID, the attendance of one child。
dropped to an average of 1,500.。
How shall we move forward?。
Now, interesting and amazingly,。
it was in this difficulty。
that our very first church plant at Yuen Long was burned.。
Praise God.。
So while serving as an elder。
and chairman of the board through this season,。
it has been instrumental and life-changing for me.。
I want to, on behalf of the past eldership board,。
and including those who have stepped down。
after many years of faithful service,。
and also those who are still serving in the current board,。
we want to thank you, all of you,。
allowing us the privilege to serve。
in areas of spiritual directions,。
governance, financial prudence, and corporate leadership.。
For myself, on a personal note,。
I am stepping down, and I have stepped down, by the way.。
I've stepped down according to the rule of congregation,。
and I take it as a blessing in disguise.。
I did receive the word, "New wine in new wine skin."。
For anything new to happen,。
there has to be an end to the prior chapter.。
How I will serve in the next season。
is something that God will continue to reveal.。
God willing, I do hope that there will be future occasions。
that I may stand on this pulpit。
to share God's word with all of you.。
Paul could proudly say at the end of the season。
that he has fought the good fight,。
he has finished the race, and he has kept the faith.。
However, sometimes we don't wrap up our past properly.。
How do we know that we didn't end well?。
Well, when we couldn't stop thinking about the past,。
but keep on chewing on the hurtful experience,。
we felt angry and frustrated。
because of the sadness or pain in our life,。
and we struggled to encounter God in those difficult moments。
and we declined to enter into new commitments。
in life, in relationship, or in ministries.。
Somewhere last year,。
when I no longer received the honorary academic title。
conferred to me by the university over the years,。
I was really upset.。
I thought, well, I made very significant contributions.。
I thought I mentored many,。
and I inspired many others.。
The list kept going.。
But then I come to my sense,。
well, I've left the academic field。
for good number of years.。
A closure is a closure.。
I can choose to embrace my new role as peers。
to my fellow colleagues,。
including those who are younger than me,。
but who may be brighter or even more skillful.。
I can choose to continue to teach the medical students,。
regardless of whether I have or do not have academic title.。
I can choose to fully commit myself。
to patient care on personal levels.。
I can explore new ventures in life.。
By the way, I learned to play tennis since two years ago.。
It would be helpful for us to consider the features。
of emotionally healthy endings and new beginnings.。
Healthy endings and new beginnings,。
when we can patiently wait for the ending。
and the confusion in between,。
fully aware that it can take much longer。
than we can imagine.。
When we realize that the ending and the waiting。
are closely tied to our maturity in Christ,。
and we can firmly affirm that endings and waiting。
are the gateway to new beginnings.。
If we accept those losses,。
whether it's work, a relationship that comes to an end,。
or even a failed ministry,。
God will work profoundly in and through us。
in the way that the apostle Paul describes.。
So then, death is a work in us,。
but life is a work in you.。
Even Jesus says, "Very truly I tell you,。
unless a canal of wheat falls to the ground and dies,。
it remains only a single seed.。
But if it dies, it produces many seeds.。
If it dies, it produces many seeds."。
I don't know whether you understand。
how the essence of cancer or cancer progression is like.。
In short, cancer cells do not complete。
their original life cycle at the appropriate time,。
according to normal life design,。
but instead becomes vicious cells that drags on,。
and the culprit that endangers life.。
When I was diagnosed with leukemia some years back,。
the idea of target therapy that I received。
was exactly to let the medicine create an environment。
for those cancer cells to die,。
so that healthy cells would reappear in the future.。
When I received the treatment,。
I was literally thinking I was dying.。
It was very, very bad.。
But here I am, recently healthy and strong.。
Praise God.。
Yeah, thank you.。
Praise God.。
Maybe we should ask ourselves,。
if I accept this ending of my current life situation,。
what new things might be standing in the background,。
waiting to come into my personal life?。
What is waiting in the background,。
coming into my personal life?。
When we face the end of a chapter in our lives,。
God's will is not just to change the external environment.。
Rather, he's doing something greater,。
initiating a deeper transformation within us。
that goes beyond our imagination.。
I like the quote by Parker Palmer.。
He says, "On the spiritual journey,。
"each time a door closes,。
"the rest of the world opens up.。
"All we need to do is to stop pounding on the door。
"that just closed, but turn around."。
Indeed, we turn around and push the door behind us。
and welcome the largeness of life。
that now lies open to our souls.。
So, don't pound on the closed door.。
Embrace the new.。
So I want to invite you to do a very prophetic act.。
Okay, I want you all to stand.。
Okay, follow me.。
Okay.。
Stand.。
Okay, because we are reminded we can turn around。
and put the closed door behind us.。
So all of us, turn around.。
(audience laughs)。
Yes, put the closed door behind us.。
Welcome the new life that God has prepared for you.。
Come, please take a seat.。
(audience applauds)。
Well, but then you may want to ask,。
how then should we embark on a new journey?。
Stephen Covey teaches in his best-selling book,。
"The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People."。
One of the habits is paradoxically,。
begin with the end in mind.。
Well, maybe Stephen have Paul's encouragement in mind。
when he writes his book.。
As Paul says, "I do not consider myself。
"yet to have taken hold of it.。
"But one thing I do, forgetting what is behind。
"and straining towards what is ahead.。
"I press on towards the goal."。
In this chapter, Stephen challenges all of us to imagine。
attending our own funeral.。
Wow.。
And we shall hear from our family, our friends,。
our colleagues, and our fellow congregants,。
how they remember us.。
Well, that is indeed a challenge。
because much often we will ask,。
well, what do I want to accomplish by the end of 2025?。
How would I like my family to be like in three years?。
Or what do I expect my ministry to be in five years?。
Maybe slightly longer down the road when I retire,。
what kind of legacy I would like to leave behind?。
Well, we best assure we can and we should。
set short-term goals on the way to our long-term life goals.。
But the author reminds us to focus。
on the ultimate goals that really matter,。
lest we lean our leather against the wrong wall.。
I try to practice this principle in my own life.。
So for the past decade or so,。
we will organize a gathering of friends, family,。
coworkers, and church members every few years。
so that we can celebrate our birthday。
or our wedding anniversaries.。
So about eight years ago,。
we celebrated our 21st wedding anniversary.。
Yay.。
(audience applauding)。
Well, but we also took a very bold step。
to break the news to our guests。
that I was suffering from leukemia.。
And I was about to start my treatment,。
charting into unknown waters at the time.。
So I also took it as a kind of farewell。
in case the treatment didn't go well.。
Fast forward on our recent six years birthday,。
two years ago,。
and we asked our guests to share something。
that they would like to say about us,。
both as an encouragement and also as a measure。
of whether we have passed on something。
that is worth remembering for them.。
If we kind of think deeply,。
how do I want these relatives and friends。
to evaluate my life?。
What kind of husband, wife, father, or mother。
do we want them to remember?。
What kind of friends, what kind of work partner。
are we for them?。
What qualities do I want them to see in me?。
What contributions, what achievements。
do I want them to remember?。
But maybe the pen ultimate question should be,。
will I be called the good and faithful servant。
that I may be invited to Jesus' banquet。
to celebrate together?。
If I look at people closely around me,。
what change do I want to see, make in their lives?。
So if my ultimate goal is to see the transformation。
of the life of others, I should start。
with my own personal choices, my priorities,。
and my life as a believer.。
When Jesus first called Peter,。
he already had an end in mind for Peter.。
It's a call to ministry, and Jesus said,。
"Follow me, and I will make you fishers of man."。
The Greek wording is, "I will make you fishers of man."。
The Greek has the sense of making change to become.。
It's a dual process, and it's a long process。
for Peter and the disciples for at least three years.。
A call can indeed completely change our course.。
About 20 years ago, when I was still living。
and working in Singapore, I received a call from Hong Kong.。
There was an invitation for me to join。
one of the local universities, and we decided。
to take up that challenge for me professionally,。
and for the family to start a new life。
here in Hong Kong again after a 10-year stay in Singapore.。
For me, that was a new beginning,。
where my end goal is to leave a legacy,。
or at least make a difference.。
And returning that call changed the trajectory。
of my whole life.。
God had a wonderful plan.。
When we returned to Hong Kong and were looking for a church,。
we stumbled into Divine Church,。
and Vivian and I had the privilege to serve in this church,。
especially in the Chinese ministry since then.。
Well, that should be considered a surprising call,。
almost unexpected.。
How about Peter?。
What happened to him upon his saying yes。
to the first call by Jesus?。
Did he continue to keep his end in mind。
while riding many ups and downs together with Jesus?。
After three years of walking with Jesus,。
Peter, along with all the other first disciples,。
and he entered into a new chapter。
where they will continue to spread the good news。
in Jesus' absence, because Jesus will soon leave them.。
They are about to begin their own new era.。
John 15 says, "When the Advocate comes,。
whom Jesus will send to you from the Father,。
the Spirit of truth who goes out with the Father,。
he will testify about me, Jesus,。
and you, you also must testify,。
for you have been with me from the beginning."。
So Jesus reminds them that they have been with him。
from the beginning, a long circle,。
and we are back to the beginning.。
Peter and the first disciples had the privilege。
of being in fellowship with Jesus from the very beginning,。
and they have a unique anointing.。
You might have been attending the Vine。
for the past three years, or maybe just three months,。
or even three weeks, or you might have been with us。
from that beginning, be it in Central or in Causeway Bay.。
Regardless, we are blessed to be part of a new season。
for this church.。
We'll be part of a new beginning,。
which Andrew will speak to upon next week's Vision Sunday.。
God values us.。
May we spread the good news and keep in mind the end goal,。
which is a citywide transformation。
beyond Wan Chai and Yuen Long.。
Jesus' final instructions to his first disciples。
are the same instructions to all of us here today.。
You and you must bear witness。
because you have been with Jesus from the beginning.。
Our context may differ, but we are in a new beginning。
that God has ordained.。
The New Testament ends beautifully.。
In Revelation, it says, "I am the Alpha and the Omega,。
"the first and the last, the beginning and the end,。
"Archi and Talos, the beginning and the end."。
I hope that as we celebrate a new season。
for this faith community,。
each one of us will move towards our life goal.。
And my life goal, as Carla has last mentioned。
in her last sermon, don't hold back.。
Yeah, don't hold back.。
I want to give my best of myself to serve。
in years to come, whatever years he allowed.。
May Divine Church continue to move。
towards Jesus Christ has destined for us.。
Keep moving towards our goal。
so that the gospel and the kingdom of God。
will continue to be passed on.。
Let's ask God to speak to us collectively。
as well as individually,。
so that we hear the call so distinctly。
and that we shall follow him boldly.。
Can I invite the worship team?。
Yeah, and I also would like to invite all of us to stand.。
In a moment's time, I would like all of us。
to consider coming forth for a time of prayer.。
Yeah, because even as you hear the word today,。
and if you want a closure to the past,。
ask God to help you close the chapter gracefully.。
And if you want to respond to God。
to head for a new beginning, say yes to Jesus.。
Come and invite Jesus to journey with you.。
And if you want to pass on the blessing,。
including a personal salvation。
that has already been bestowed upon you,。
ask God to help you pass it on.。
So while we respond in worship,。
in a moment's time, I invite many of you to come forth。
and that we shall pray together。
with the pastors and the prayer team.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(music fades)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
