Amen. - Amen. Thank you, Alison.。
Good morning, everyone. - Good morning.。
Morning, morning. So, like Alison said, if you have been involving in CGs,。
you might have known me, but let me introduce myself a little bit.。
So I joined the pastoral team almost for four years now.。
So four years ago, I was the former CG pastor。
who's pastor team leading Yuen Long Church right now.。
Oh, by the way, hi, Tim. I know you've been watching.。
And so he invited me to join the CG team to work on the pastoral team.。
So it was a long journey for me as well, but long story short, I'm here.。
So it's a privilege for me to share the word with you all this morning.。
So I was chatting with my brother last week,。
and I told him that, "Oh, I'm going to preach on forgiveness today."。
And then he laughed immediately.。
He was like, "You? Teaching on forgiveness? Seriously?"。
And yeah, why did he laugh?。
Something that he has been teasing me a lot is,。
like, I think my colleagues will be able to testify as well,。
that I have slightly better memory than average.。
So I remember things.。
So it's helpful for me at work because I remember things,。
gets me more efficient, and also for me to be in a bigger church community,。
it helps me to remember people as well.。
But it's really unhelpful when we talk about forgiveness.。
So my brother has been describing that I have a register to remember,。
like, to write down who has offended me, how they have offended me,。
and it's probably thicker than my Bible.。
Well, FYI, this thing does not exist, I don't have a register,。
but these things do stay in my head sometimes.。
But we have been hearing that forgiveness is not about just forgetting, right?。
And no matter how forgetful you are, there are things that you remember.。
There are things that it is hard for you to let go as well.。
There are times for you to struggle with forgiveness.。
So what I'm trying to say is, if you find it difficult to let things go,。
you are not alone. I'm like that as well.。
These past three weeks, we have been hearing and reflecting。
on the importance of forgiveness, how we have been forgiven by God,。
and what forgiveness is.。
And today, we will look into forgiving others.。
Before we open the Bible today, I have a question for us.。
I wonder, what does it look like when we struggle with forgiveness?。
Those people you need to see regularly, perhaps not someone stepping on your feet。
on MTR, but maybe our colleagues, our family members, our friends,。
or even our brothers and sisters in the church.。
If they have offended you, how would that impact you?。
When you struggle with forgiving them, how would you react?。
And what comes to your mind when you see them?。
Do you just hide your thoughts, hide your emotions,。
and try to act normal in front of people?。
Do you try to avoid these people?。
Or would you want to exclude them from your circle?。
For me, if someone offends me, I would definitely go to the avoidance side.。
If you offend me, I don't want to see you.。
If I see you in a pantry, I will not get water until you walk out the pantry.。
If I see you in the lower house, I would probably go to the upper house.。
But actually, I don't get to decide.。
And if I see you in my family dinner, I would try to get the furthest seat I can。
just to avoid talking to you.。
I wonder if you can resonate with any of these.。
But this is not what God intend us to be, right?。
Especially when it happens in our church community.。
We are brothers and sisters, and we are all part of the same body of Christ.。
So today, we will look into the forgiveness within the church body in our early church.。
Last week, Derek shared one of the biblical examples of forgiveness with us,。
with Stephen getting stoned, and he released his forgiveness to the people who killed him.。
Such a beautiful testimony from one of the followers of Christ.。
And I would like to continue to read that passage, the immediate verses after that.。
So Acts 7.59, "While they were stoning him, Stephen prayed,。
'Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.'。
Then he fell on his knees and cried out, 'Lord, do not hold this sin against him.'。
When he had said this, he fell asleep."。
And immediately after this, "And Saul approved of their killing him.。
On that day, a great persecution broke out against the church in Jerusalem,。
and all except the apostles were scattered throughout Judea and Samaria.。
Godly men buried Stephen and mourned deeply for him.。
But Saul began to destroy the church, going from house to house.。
He dragged off both men and women and put them in prison."。
So the scripture tells us that it was Saul who approved the killing,。
and we know that this Saul is the apostle Paul,。
who later became an apostle and has done a lot for our church.。
"And he killed Stephen."。
Stephen is now with Jesus, he does not need to struggle with forgiveness anymore,。
and in fact, he doesn't need to struggle with anything anymore.。
But how about his brothers and sisters, those who witnessed the killing?。
If we read chapter 6, we can see that Stephen was one of the seven people。
whom the twelve apostles appointed to help with the ministry.。
And the scripture describes Stephen as a man full of God's grace and power,。
performed great wonders and signs among the people.。
Such a faithful brother that they have lost.。
Those who witnessed would struggle with their emotions,。
they mourned deeply for him.。
And there were even more and more people getting imprisoned and killed。
by the Jews and Saul.。
How would the church community feel towards the Jews and Saul in this case?。
Sometimes when we read this passage, we go too fast into,。
"Oh, he's the apostle Paul, has done so much for Jesus later,。
wrote so many letters that we are still reading today."。
And it's true that he's a great apostle that built up the foundation of our faith.。
But perhaps sometimes we miss the perspective from other disciples at that time.。
In their eyes, in the church's eyes at that time,。
he is a murderer who killed a lot of Christians.。
And he is an oppressor as well.。
If I were one of them, if I personally witnessed that my friends are getting killed by a person,。
this is something that I will always remember.。
And I would definitely struggle with forgiving them.。
So,。
but we remember that in the past weeks that we can't rely on our own strength to forgive people.。
This is the good news for us. We don't need to do that by ourselves.。
And God's work in people are amazing.。
As we continue to read, we can see how God moves the people in the early church to forgive in this case.。
"Now there was a disciple in Damascus named Ananias, and the Lord said to him in a vision,。
'Ananias,' and he said, 'He I am, Lord.'。
And the Lord said to him, 'Get up and go to the street called Strait,。
and inquire at the house of Judas for a man from Tarsus named Saul, for he is praying.。
And he has seen a vision, a man named Ananias came in and lay his hands on him,。
so that he might regain his sight.'。
But Ananias replied, 'Lord, I have heard from many people about this man,。
how much harm he did to your saints in Jerusalem.。
And here he has authority from the chief priests to arrest all who call on your name.'。
But the Lord said to him, 'Go, for he is a chosen instrument of mine,。
to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings and the sons of Israel,。
for I will show him how much he must suffer in behalf of my name.'。
So Ananias departed and entered the house, and after laying his hands on him, he said,。
'Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus who appeared to you on the road by which you were coming,。
has sent me so that you may regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit.'。
And immediately something like fish scales fell from his eyes, and he regained his sight,。
and he got up and was baptized, and he took food and was strengthened.。
So we can see that when Ananias hears about the idea of going to find Saul and laying hands on him,。
he was unsure about that.。
Saul was literally still on his way to persecute the church before his conversion.。
The danger is real before we even talk about forgiveness in this case.。
And we can see that Ananias was subtly against this idea.。
See how he called Saul 'this man', not even addressing his name.。
But God explains his plan to Ananias, that Ananias has a role in God's work as well.。
His role is to redeem Saul's life, so in the future,。
Saul can proclaim Jesus' name to Gentiles and other people.。
So we are under the Gentiles category, right? Most of us.。
Can we imagine what happens to us if Ananias disobeyed God at the moment?。
Would we even exist?。
I'm sure God has his own way to work that out if Ananias refused to do that.。
But thankfully, Ananias chose to obey, and he is willing to be part of God's work.。
I want us to pay attention to how Ananias addresses Paul when he gets there.。
The first word he said is, "Brother Saul, this is powerful.。
From this man to brother."。
Ananias knows his assignment.。
The way that he calls him 'brother' demonstrated forgiveness and also full acceptance to Saul,。
that he has included Saul into the church community, which is essential.。
Because Jesus could have healed his eyes, healed Saul's eyes in his own way.。
He doesn't need to send people there.。
But Jesus chose to send someone to do that, to be part of his work.。
Have we thought about why?。
God intended his people to be accepted in his community.。
No matter what terrible things we have done in our life,。
and no matter how unworthy we feel we are, we are all accepted.。
Jesus sends Ananias to Saul to accept him before he even proves that he is a worthy Christian.。
This is powerful.。
Because how can Saul convince the acceptance of the forgiveness of God。
if he didn't experience that from other Christians?。
However, being accepted by Ananias does not mean that the whole community has accepted him.。
Yet.。
I want to continue to read the story as I want us to know that。
it was uneasy for the early church community as well.。
It takes time for the community to go through the forgiveness journey.。
And different people would have their own pace, would have their own journey on that.。
Just like you and me.。
When he, he is Saul, came to Jerusalem, he tried repeatedly to associate with the disciples.。
And yet, they were all afraid of him, as they did not believe that he was a disciple.。
But Barnabas took hold of him and brought him to the apostles and described to them。
how he had seen the Lord on the row, and that he had talked to him,。
and how he had spoken out boldly in the name of Jesus at Damascus.。
And he was with them, moving about freely in Jerusalem, speaking out boldly in the name of the Lord.。
And he was talking and arguing with the Hellenistic Jews,。
but they were attempting to put him to death.。
Now when the brothers learned of it, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him away to Tarsus.。
So the scripture tells us, emphasizing that he repeatedly tried to associate with the disciples,。
but they were afraid of him.。
We can see that Saul's repentance and conversion did not immediately lead to forgiveness。
and acceptance from the whole community.。
People still remember what he has done,。
and probably still wrestling with the loss that they have experienced.。
How would they trust this murderer immediately?。
It indeed takes time and people's effort to encourage forgiveness in the community.。
But here we've got a Barnabas who didn't only offer his own forgiveness to Saul,。
but also to help Saul to be forgiven by other people.。
Barnabas put in effort in helping the community to see what has happened in Saul。
and more importantly to see Saul's new identity as a Christian, as a follower of Christ,。
and to help Saul to be accepted by the community.。
And forgiveness does not mean that what Saul has done is forgotten.。
In fact, what he has done is remembered forever, as it is recorded in the Bible.。
But forgiveness is letting go of our sense of being wronged and offended,。
and to see the person in God's sight, to see them from God's perspective.。
And this act, this act of forgiveness, is to fulfill God's work in our community.。
And at the same time, I want us to see that Saul also takes his ownership of his actions.。
Firstly, he didn't force others to forgive him.。
He didn't say to other Christians, "Oh, you are a Christian. You're supposed to be gracious.。
You're supposed to be merciful. You're supposed to be forgiving."。
These words sound familiar, right? But Saul didn't do it.。
Also, if we read the letters he was writing to the church,。
he has not been hiding the things that he has done.。
He takes responsibility of his own sins and actions.。
And it is important that we know that it is by the grace of God that he has been forgiven.。
Forgiven by God, and forgiven by others.。
Church, this is a reminder to us as well.。
If we have wronged others, take responsibility of our own actions.。
Ask for forgiveness with the posture of asking grace.。
For us who need to forgive others, we are not only doing that for the sake of our mental health.。
There's something more. We are doing the work of God.。
Ananias, with his obedience, becomes part of God's plan to redeem Saul's life。
so that he can become the apostle Paul that God intends him to be.。
And Barnabas and the whole community works together on their forgiveness with Saul.。
Together, they have demonstrated the forgiveness of Jesus to Saul.。
This is the church. This is who we are.。
Starting with a strong foundation of forgiveness.。
Perhaps today in this room, we don't have an apostle Saul for us to redeem,。
but will we lay down our preferences and rights to fulfill God's work within our community?。
I want to share a little bit of my personal story as well,。
which I took a long time to forgive the people in my church community as well.。
It happened in my uni time. I was not in this church yet.。
I was part of a young adults community, just like 180 here, similar.。
So one time we were planning for an event together,。
and then the communication was bad. It was terrible.。
And the event did not turn out as we wished.。
So it ended up like the organizers were having a conflict among us.。
So for sure, I was part of that conflict.。
And then people in our community heard of this conflict among the organizers,。
and people started to take sides,。
which we know is unhelpful when we are involved in a conflict.。
But we were young, right?。
It wasn't that of a big deal at the beginning,。
but things got worse, and then we get to a point that we can't really resolve it.。
So just as I said in the beginning, if I get offended, I will avoid the people.。
So that's what I did. I stopped showing up to my community gatherings.。
And then later, I felt, "Oh, I still want a community."。
I made an even worse decision that I joined another community in the same church.。
My church wasn't that big, just a few hundred people, so we all know each other.。
It was very weird that we show up in the same church,。
but I just went to another community.。
But I am quite stubborn, if I'm honest.。
So I did that for almost half a year,。
until someone from my original community came to me and told me that,。
"Jennifer, you know what? We missed you, and we want you to come back."。
At the bottom of my heart, I wanted to do that as well,。
but at that time, I was not brave enough to do the conversation that I need to do,。
to forgive what has happened, to forgive the people,。
and at the same time, ask for their forgiveness.。
So I was being immature for a few more months,。
and then finally, I got myself together and felt, "I really want to go back."。
So in that period, more people came and asked me to go back,。
to encourage me, "You can do it."。
They are like Barnabas and Ananias in my situation,。
to help me to go back and have conversation with the people.。
So at the end, I did that, I went back,。
and then I have the conversation with my community,。
and we all lay down what has happened,。
and continue to have fellowship together.。
From this experience, I personally experience the power。
of both forgiveness and also unforgiveness in a church community,。
and how a few people's actions can impact the whole community.。
Well, the honest truth is, as long as we are in community,。
as long as we are with people, conflicts will happen,。
and we will need to forgive.。
For Saul as well, after him being accepted, became an apostle,。
he still has conflict.。
He had a conflict with Mark later, and then it leads to splitting,。
and even more conflicts within the early church community.。
But later, they sort that out, the relationship,。
and then both Mark and Paul are having important roles in the early church.。
So what I'm saying is, as long as we are in the community,。
we can't really avoid conflict,。
we can't really avoid the conversation of forgiveness.。
Earlier this year, we have gone through the Ephesians series,。
which is written by Paul.。
There's a passage that Paul writes his reflection about forgiveness.。
Let me read it to you.。
"Get rid of all bitterness, rage, and anger.。
Brawling and slander, along with every form of malice.。
Be kind and compassionate to one another,。
forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you."。
We see, this is Paul's reflection after all the things that had happened in his life.。
It is essential for the church community to forgive one another,。
as the sense of unforgiveness will birth into something else。
that will harm the whole community.。
And forgiveness is hard.。
It's not as simple as just saying, "I forgive you," to each other.。
But it is a hard work.。
We need to do that from the bottom of our heart.。
And there are things that it's really difficult to handle.。
Things like people that broke your trust,。
people who betrayed you,。
or even people who abused you.。
And again, if you are in an abusive situation,。
do seek help from the people you trust.。
But what I'm saying is,。
"I forgive you" does not have the magical power。
to heal all the wounds that are in your heart.。
It takes time, and it takes effort,。
and it takes God's grace for us to do the forgiveness.。
I'm not sure what you are going through right now,。
but you are not alone.。
You don't need to do this alone if you are struggling with forgiveness.。
If you are struggling with forgiving people,。
again, this is hard.。
It takes time and effort to do that.。
But do ask for God's grace and strength to do that.。
He is with you, and only by His power we can do that.。
And if you have offended someone,。
if you need to ask for forgiveness,。
take responsibility of your own action.。
Go find the people that you have offended。
and ask for their forgiveness.。
Make known of your heart to the people。
and ask genuinely.。
And ask again for God's grace and strength to do that.。
And for some of us,。
we might be the people that are seeing the struggle of forgiveness around us.。
If you are walking with people on that,。
let's come around the people who struggle。
because they need the community to help them.。
Be like Barnabas or Ananias,。
that help people, to encourage people to forgive.。
To come around them, to support them,。
because it is a long journey.。
Do not take sides.。
I'm saying this from my very painful experience.。
Try to see the things in God's perspective.。
And try to see that we are doing the work of God.。
And we are doing this together as one body.。
And this is like we are called the body of Christ。
to demonstrate who Jesus is to the people around us.。
So let's demonstrate the love of Christ。
and the power of forgiveness as this is to fulfill God's work.。
So right now, we will hear some testimonies from our own community.。
May I invite Pasajan to facilitate that。
and invite our guests for today, Charles and Alison.。
Thank you, Pasajan.。
And let's welcome, this is Alison.。
Alison and Charles, let's give them a warm welcome.。
Yes, so Alison and Charles, you've both led community groups here.。
Alison, you're currently serving on Alpha。
and Charles, you've been involved, you've been leading a CG。
and you've been involved in Cleansing Stream as well.。
And today, we've heard a story from Jen's life within church community。
and we'll hear different communities from you both.。
And Alison, why don't we start with you?。
Could you share about just a recent testimony of conflict?。
Sure. My story comes from the workplace.。
So ever since I was a teenager,。
I've dreamed of becoming a really kick-butt CEO.。
I don't know if I'm allowed to say the word "butt" but I will just say it.。
And I've had a passion for the corporate world and the business world.。
And for much of the last decade and a half I've been working since university,。
I felt I was very successful and confident in my career.。
You know, in these companies that I worked for,。
every year they would give annual performance reviews。
and I tended to place pretty high.。
So it just affirmed the confidence I had in myself that, you know,。
I'm a good leader, I'm a good worker,。
I'm recognized for my, you know, characteristics at work。
and identified as a high achiever.。
So when this incident came two years ago in the workplace,。
it was extremely hard for me.。
I had the toughest challenge yet in my career。
and I had a horrible relationship with my boss.。
And my relationship with him wasn't always strange,。
but suddenly a year into working with him,。
things took a really bad turn.。
We would often have very big team meetings.。
Who has big team meetings, you know, when you have work?。
He, every time when I spoke up,。
I felt that he would vocally just humiliate me。
and turn the things down I said。
and make it known that, you know,。
what I was saying or suggesting was not the right way.。
And he would get very vocally nasty in front of the whole team。
and say that to me.。
And in other smaller team discussions, it was the same.。
And, you know, he was very condescending in his speech.。
So I felt humiliated, I felt hurt, and I was surprised.。
And I tried to address this in our one-on-one discussions。
and ask him, you know,。
"How do you see me doing better, Mr. Boss?"。
Because obviously there's some issues.。
And it was a very hard discussion.。
He eventually never really gave any clear answers,。
but made it known that he would be hiring someone else。
to take over from my role.。
So that was very difficult for me.。
- Not easy, thank you.。
And Charles, could you share with us your family background?。
- Sure, good morning, everyone.。
I'm sharing a story from my family background.。
So I grew up in a family with a lot of relationship challenges.。
So there's a lot of emotional abuse。
happening within the family.。
And eventually my parents are divorced.。
And my brother and I, after we got into university,。
we moved out of the family just to be on our own。
so that we can have some peace.。
So at first I thought I just, I'm in a clear,。
but because the family didn't really have a common practice。
of forgiveness and apology.。
So I actually needed to learn it much later on。
in my adult life.。
So I will share one example with you, one story with you.。
So this was when I was in my late 30s already.。
And at that time, my father was in his 80s。
and we were all living separately on our own.。
And one year he had a stroke.。
And then of course the family rallied together。
to try to care for my dad.。
And during this time, we found out that he actually。
has been involved in a mess for a while。
and nobody in our family knew about it.。
So in order to help him out, I decided that。
at that time I was still single.。
So I moved back to be with him.。
I packed up half of my belongings.。
I moved back.。
I still kept my place, trying to support my dad。
and try to hopefully, hoping that he will not,。
he will have a new life and not be involved。
in messy situations again.。
So long story short, after about six months,。
I realized that, my brother and I realized that。
my dad is still involved in the mess.。
And I was very upset because I put in a lot of effort.。
My life was really difficult, going to work,。
having two places, having pets to look after,。
like just really chaos.。
So I was really obsessed.。
I packed my stuff and I went back home。
and I just disassociated.。
So it felt like, okay, I'm back in my own place.。
I should be feeling better now.。
And I learned a very valuable lesson during this season。
because when I moved back home for the next six months,。
I was tortured by memories.。
And these are memories of my past wrongdoings,。
things that I've done that I hurt people in the past.。
And these are old stuff as well。
that I thought I have resolved with God.。
I've confessed and I thought I received forgiveness.。
But these memories, for some reason,。
in that season came back and they would replay in my mind。
like movie trailers.。
Imagine you have a movie trailer of your bad deeds playing.。
That's really a torture actually.。
So after about six months, I really couldn't stand it.。
So I was thinking to myself,。
what had actually really changed that this is happening?。
And it still took me about two weeks to realize。
that it might be because I have held a grudge against my dad.。
And at that point, I realized that I really need to forgive my dad.。
And also at that point,。
because it was just a decision to forgive my dad,。
I also realized I was holding a grudge。
based on my own choice as well.。
And the forgiveness was also a choice that I could make.。
So I made the choice to forgive my dad.。
When I made up with him, I totally behaved like normal again.。
And actually, very, very, almost instantaneously,。
all the tormenting videos would stop playing in my mind again.。
So it was a very dramatic lesson for me.。
And Charles, how did that impact you when you were growing up?。
How did you cope with people?。
Because when I was growing up, there was a lot of emotional abuse.。
So I would withdraw.。
I would try to stay away from the pain, the source of the pain.。
And I will grow up to become a very self-reliant person。
because I want to minimize my reliance on people。
so that I will have less pain, right?。
Basically, that's how I coped with it when I was growing up.。
When I grew up, when I was in my late 20s,。
so I learned a very valuable lesson in church life,。
which is to share it with others.。
Like I started to have safe mentors that I can meet with regularly,。
and I share my pain with them, and it really helped me out.。
I even saw a therapist for about, I think, two years.。
So it really helped me out.。
And one other thing, though, is when I was repeating these stories。
over a period of time, I realized I was repeating it over and over,。
and I was still lacking a little bit of stuff to move forward.。
And afterwards, I eventually realized that,。
apart from sharing with people, I need to...。
Forgiveness is the key that was missing in my life.。
So I needed to work forgiveness out into my life as well.。
Yeah, and Allison, I know you worked with a therapist as well,。
but before we go there, how did you cope with that pain in this workplace?。
What did you do?。
Yeah, I think before I got on my knees with the decision to forgive,。
because that was very hard,。
I felt like actually my voice was stolen in the workplace.。
That was very difficult for me.。
I'm usually a very vocal and direct person,。
but whenever there was a team meeting, I would just...。
I dreaded every day going to work,。
and I just felt like I wanted to be invisible.。
I didn't want to be seen.。
And the worst was just seeing team members I hired and trained personally.。
They saw that the political tide was obviously not in my favor,。
so they would turn against me to ensure that。
they would still have a job at the end of the day.。
So it was very hurtful.。
And eventually, I felt like I had no option,。
because I knew I would be replaced,。
was to leave, to leave the company and to leave his leadership.。
But even that was hard, because I would keep seeing him around Hong Kong.。
Turns out we went to the same grad school, me and this boss,。
and he would come up to me and be like,。
"Why do I keep still seeing you, even after you left?"。
And I was like, "Well, I live in Hong Kong too,。
and we went to the same school."。
So anyways, but it was hard, but with time,。
and we can share about the forgiveness journey too,。
as I worked with a therapist,。
with the awesome community around me here,。
and of course, with God's help, all of that changed eventually.。
Yeah, so how did the therapist and the community around you,。
what did that look like for you?。
I sought the help of a career counselor who's also a Christian,。
and he knew me very well.。
And he said, "You know, Alison, this is not who you are in the workplace."。
And he spoke some very affirming, life-giving words,。
and he encouraged me to write down a list of,。
you know, because I said my voice was like stolen,。
you know, of what I'm thankful for,。
and what my identity is in Christ in the workplace.。
And I wrote all this down, and he said,。
"You know, read this aloud to your husband,。
and make sure he affirms you as well.。
He's here."。
And so that helped a lot,。
and it just helped remind me of my identity in Christ.。
My community here at The Vine have been really supportive.。
They kept listening to me when I was really down,。
and, you know, they really encouraged me,。
and told me, you know, "There is a future.。
This is not the only thing,。
that your work situation is not one that is going to stay.。
And as you move on, it will get better.。
This is not the end."。
And they prayed with me, and believed with me,。
and eventually helped me to get to that place of,。
"I want to get rid of this chain holding me back.。
This is not worth it."。
Because I know I could do well in the workplace.。
It was this experience that I didn't want to be stuck in it anymore.。
So I think those things all helped.。
- Yeah.。
And so we hear from both of you how people around you,。
how the community around you,。
be it a therapist, a mentor,。
or the Christian community have really helped you。
to really go through that forgiveness,。
which we've heard it takes time.。
And we know we've heard that you've both chosen to forgive,。
and we just want to hear from you.。
What does walking out this forgiveness in your life look like?。
Alison, why don't you start?。
- Okay.。
I would say it's definitely not an overnight forgiveness journey.。
Even now today, when I think of this person,。
I wouldn't say I've 100% forgiven him.。
But it gets a little bit better every day.。
And just like Pastor Derek shared last week in his sermon,。
it was a decision.。
It started with a decision.。
"Hey, God, I'm really stuck in this.。
I really need your help to forgive."。
Recognizing, vocalizing the pain it caused,。
and a conscious decision not to continuously dwell。
in that hate and resentment circle.。
And I would say that first step already helped immensely。
to let go of the pain and to forgive.。
And if I were to see this leader that I had。
that caused me so much pain right now,。
to come up to me right now,。
I at least wouldn't punch him in the guts.。
Like I would be okay,。
and I would wish God's blessing upon him.。
And eventually moving on to a new workplace。
where I felt like I was healed and restored。
in my identity also helped.。
So sometimes leaving that was also helpful,。
but it was really the Holy Spirit and God。
working in their heart to let go.。
- Yeah, thank you.。
And Charles?。
- I agree with Alison.。
I needed to make the choice.。
For me, because of what the Holy Spirit shared with me。
regarding my past sin against others,。
I find it non-negotiable these days。
with regard to forgiving others。
because I realized I actually needed it more.。
I needed God's forgiveness over my own sins。
more than the other person needing the forgiveness for me.。
So it's a very personal thing.。
I can feel the weight of sin coming back upon me。
when I was unforgiving towards my dad.。
And during even moments these days。
when I was edging back towards unforgiveness。
towards anyone,。
I started to feel the weight again upon my heart.。
So because of that, I also remember,。
there's a parable of the unforgiving servants。
that Jesus talked about,。
that this king had servants。
and there's this servant owed him like a million dollars,。
impossible debt, like 10 billion.。
I think it was a huge amount.。
And the king had mercy。
and just know that he couldn't pay,。
so he forgave him.。
And then the servant turned around。
and tried to chase down $1,000 or $10,000。
from a fellow colleague.。
And it was outrageous.。
So the person was put back into prison to be tormented.。
So when I had that experience,。
I felt like, oh, I was the unmerciful servant.。
So through all these revelation of the spirit,。
I now walk very cautiously.。
Also, I know that after even 20 years。
of being a Christian,。
these days as I'm still working out。
how to overcome,。
working on the process of overcoming sin。
through the Holy Spirit,。
I still inadvertently would hurt people here and there.。
So even for myself, if I'm hurting people,。
how can I not forgive others as well?。
So that's why I am really cautiously。
living out forgiveness in my life on a regular basis.。
Thank you both.。
We've really heard real life stories。
of how they've struggled,。
how they've navigated the conflict。
and the forgiveness journey,。
and really honor you and appreciate you both。
for sharing today.。
We hope that's blessed you.。
And let's give them a round of applause again.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
And now we're going to take some time。
to respond to God.。
So can I invite you all to stand。
and let me pray.。
God, we thank you for that reminder of that parable,。
how we have been so completely forgiven.。
And we know, God, it's not easy.。
But right now we just take some time。
and we pray that through your spirit,。
you will do that next bit of your work,。
that next bit of healing, of restoration,。
of helping us either to choose to release forgiveness。
or to continually choose again and again。
and again and again,。
to lay down our resentment.。
Pray for anyone here who needs that chain of resentment。
to be loosened.。
I pray for anyone perhaps who knows。
that they are the one who needs to ask for forgiveness.。
Holy Spirit, we just come before you now.。
It's your work.。
It's your grace.。
So let us just take a moment to encounter that grace right now.。
