Thank you, Benedict.。
Why don't we put our hands together for Benedict?。
(audience applauds)。
Just want to say up front, just want to say thank you.。
Thank you for your love and support.。
I could feel that while I was sitting there.。
Please continue to pray for us,。
for this project, for our church,。
as we are learning to serve and minister。
to the younger generation in this city.。
What a coincidence that in the last couple of weeks,。
our sermon series was centered on。
a particular person in the Bible.。
And we're not just focusing on him.。
We're focusing on a very particular period of life in him.。
And that's 17 to right now,。
we're coming to about 30 years of his age.。
We've been looking at the young adult。
like timeline in his life, Joseph.。
And we're going to continue.。
When the Bible started describing him。
or when his narrative started, he was 17 years old。
in Genesis chapter 37.。
And now we're at chapter 41, and he's turning 30s.。
It's a little bit, you have to feedback.。
You have to lower the volume.。
Thank you.。
I don't dare to talk right now.。
Okay, okay, much better.。
Thank you.。
Can we put our hands together for Toby and the production team?。
Thank you so much.。
You guys are my hero.。
And so although this guy, Joseph,。
he lived like a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away,。
like not a galaxy, just another country far, far away。
in a very different culture.。
But we know that as we could see in the story,。
there are challenges, there are struggles in his life,。
just as like you and me in a young generation。
in this city right now,。
there are challenges and struggles in their life.。
And so often we could see these kind of brokenness。
or challenges or struggles.。
They start to become part of who we are.。
They start to shape our identity.。
For example, there are people in everywhere, basically.。
There are people who drink too much,。
and we call them alcoholic.。
We gave them a name,。
and that starts to become their identity.。
And people who maybe when they're in front of people,。
they're so insecure that they have to say something。
that is not true to protect themselves.。
They have to tell a lie,。
and we name these people liars.。
We name them.。
That becomes their identity.。
So sometimes the brokenness and our struggles in life,。
they do become part of who we are or part of our identity.。
When I was 18 years old,。
that's quite long ago now, okay.。
When I was 18 years old,。
I did my A-levels exam.。
I remember the last subject,。
the last exam I had to sit was the Chinese oral exams.。
Oh, I can see there are people。
who went through the same thing as me.。
Good for you.。
You don't have to review your age.。
So in the Chinese oral exams and the A-levels,。
there are two parts.。
The first part,。
I'll be given a particular topic on a slip of paper.。
I've got 10 minutes to prepare,。
and then I have to give a three-minute speech.。
Second part is a group discussion.。
And the topic I received that day was this on the screen.。
The best gift for my childhood self.。
That's my topic.。
So when my three-minute started,。
this is how I began that speech.。
If it were possible for me,。
the best gift that I could ever receive。
as a three-year-old kid or child would be my mother.。
I could tell immediately the entire room,。
all the audience,。
their eyes were on me.。
By the way, I mean, by audience,。
I mean there were like two examiners there,。
a male and a female.。
Both of them immediately looked at me.。
And I started sharing a little bit about myself.。
And thanks to my youth pastor,。
who had a counseling background,。
when we were teenagers,。
every week at a youth group,。
he would come and lead some sort of like。
self-reflective exercise.。
We talk about a life,。
like what are the ups and downs,。
and you have to draw a lifeline,。
that sort of things.。
So by the time when I turned 18,。
I was okay.。
I mean, I'm decently aware of who I am,。
what I've been through,。
and I'm decently like, okay,。
I know what's going on in my life right now.。
I know this and that happened,。
and so now I'm like this or that.。
So for three minutes,。
I started unpacking my entire 18-year life。
to these two examiners.。
I told them how I lost my mother to cancer。
at the age of three,。
and how that impacted my life in different parts,。
how there's been constantly a void,。
a loneliness inside of me.。
I've been always struggling with that,。
and how I always wish my mother would be there with me。
when I'm going through all the storms in life.。
And so I could see there's a countdown timer,。
and when it counts down to three, two, one,。
I wrap up my speech with that sentence again,。
if it were all possible.。
For the three-year-old kid,。
I would love to have my mom back.。
And I could tell when the clock stops。
or start like ringing,。
I could see there's a drop of tear。
in the female examiner's eyes,。
and I'm like, wow.。
That's the story I told people when I was 18 years old.。
But that was also the story I told my counselor。
when I was seated in her office on the chair。
a couple years down the road.。
If you were here for a while,。
you probably have heard my story,。
how I struggled in uni and in seminary.。
I struggled a lot, actually.。
I had a little bit of depressive symptoms,。
and I was actively seeing a counselor back then.。
I remember every time I sat in her office,。
we would just talk about things in my life,。
how I'm doing.。
But then I felt I was always constantly。
trying to connect all the things I'm going through,。
all my troubles, all my problems,。
to all the tragedy I had experienced when I was younger.。
I had always been trying to connect。
my current problems to my past circumstances.。
I've been trying to say, yeah,。
because I've been a three-year-old kid without my mom,。
and so I grew up this way, I was super insecure,。
and that's why I had this or that kind of problem.。
And I felt like I've been trying to prove myself,。
or I've been trying to convince her, my counselor,。
that in everything that happened,。
I'm just a victim here.。
I don't know if you've ever felt that in you before,。
that you have to try and explain yourself。
to prove or to show people that you are indeed a victim.。
I've been trying to tell myself, to show myself,。
and to show my counselor,。
I was trying to make her agree with me。
so that she would acknowledge,。
"Yes, Chapman, none of this is your fault.。
"You're just a victim, you lost your mom when you were young,。
"so that's why you're going through all this."。
I was trying to convince her and convince myself that.。
Because after a while, I realized。
I was not the only one having this kind of urge。
to show or prove that I'm a victim.。
Psychologists, they actually research on this,。
and they call this the victim mentality.。
Victim mentality is a learned psychological response。
rooted in this idea called learned helplessness,。
where individuals feel trapped in cycles of perceived victimhood,。
hindering their ability to move forward.。
Rather than being an inherent personality trait,。
it develops through specific experiences。
and cognitive frameworks.。
So we learn that in life, that we're a victim.。
This mindset is characterized by a persistent belief。
that one is powerless against negative circumstances,。
attributing hardships to external forces。
and seeing attempts to change as futile.。
And so psychologists, they did a lot of research on this,。
and they have identified three fundamental beliefs。
that sustain victim mentality.。
Let's go through them one by one.。
The first one, bad things happen。
and will continue to happen regardless of my actions.。
Whatever I do, bad things will just keep happening.。
I can't control that.。
Or number two, other people or external circumstances。
are to blame for someone's misfortune.。
Or in my case, I lost my mom. I couldn't help.。
I cannot control that. I couldn't have her back.。
So I am who I am. This is the way I live.。
And I'm traumatized. I can't do anything about it.。
Or number three, any efforts to create change。
will inevitably fail, making attempts pointless.。
I try to change, but I'm always insecure.。
I can't be more secure because I don't have a mom in my life.。
What do you expect from me? I'm a victim here.。
I'm a victim here. Yeah, I know I fail.。
I know I flunk my exams, but you shouldn't blame me。
because I'm the victim here.。
That's what I went through when I was younger.。
So it says here, "These beliefs trap people in cycles of helplessness,。
making them see challenges as permanent and beyond their control,。
hindering positive change."。
That's why they are always stuck in their tragedies.。
They are always stuck in their struggles.。
For example, perhaps someone feels they're never appreciated by their boss,。
no matter how hard they try,。
no matter how many nights they spend in the office,。
you know, OT, and they're stuck in the career.。
But if you ask them, "Why don't you get another job?"。
They'll say, "No, no, no, no, no.。
I don't know if I can find another job that easy.。
I don't know if I will ever have any boss that will like me."。
They'll say no to you.。
Or perhaps someone has been rejected or hurt in a relationship before,。
and they decided to avoid starting another meaningful relationship,。
not just romantic ones, even normal social relationships.。
They start to hide themselves behind closed doors and say,。
"I'm not convinced that anyone would want to be my friend.。
I don't think anyone would like me.。
I think I'm such a person that nobody would want to be my friend."。
So these people, they're just stuck in that kind of victimhood.。
And when we dive back into Joseph's story,。
and we can see, "Hey man, this is a real victim here.。
Come on. Think about his life.。
He was betrayed by his own brothers,。
suggesting to him that even those who were closest to him in his life,。
even his flesh and blood, his own family, could betray him.。
They could not be trusted.。
And then he was sold into slavery.。
He lost his freedom.。
He lost his power to control over his life.。
He's powerless over his own circumstances.。
And he was falsely accused by the wife of his boss.。
He didn't lie, despite his integrity.。
That led to his unjust imprisonment.。
And even in prison, he met this guy, his fellow cellmate,。
and he thought, "Oh, this guy had a dream.。
I know how to interpret dreams. It just so happened.。
Let me interpret his dream."。
And so he got restored. He got out of jail.。
And I thought, "This guy is going to help me.。
This is my ticket out of here."。
And guess what?。
That cup bearer forgot about him the moment he left the prison.。
So at the beginning of chapter 41 of Genesis,。
the author wrote these words,。
"When two full years had passed."。
When two full years had passed means nothing happened in two full years.。
He was in jail, seated there for the wrong reason.。
He didn't do anything, and he didn't get any help.。
He was there stuck in the prison for two full years by himself.。
Joseph could have asked himself this question like a million times,。
at least a couple hundred times.。
"I wonder if my friend, the cup bearer, is going to mention my name to Pharaoh today.。
Oh yeah, today, he just went out for two days.。
Maybe he haven't really seen Pharaoh yet. That's okay.。
Oh, it's been a week now.。
Maybe he's busy. Maybe Pharaoh is busy.。
Oh, it's been a month. I wonder how that guy is doing.。
And then it's two years.。
Where has he been?。
Has he forgotten about me?。
No news, no visitors, just disappointment in his life.。
If I put myself in his shoes, I would be thinking this.。
First, I wouldn't be sure if I could--。
I'm not even sure if there's any faith left inside of me,。
faith in man and faith in God.。
I think I would have become a very cynical person.。
I might assume the worst in every single one around me.。
I might think that God has abandoned me, so I might as well just do the same to him.。
Or maybe I would just come to terms with a lesser version of God,。
who may still love me, but he's totally incapable of helping me。
or at least getting me out of the prison.。
Or I'll just have to live with it.。
That's okay. I'm a slave. I'm a prisoner.。
Probably I'll be a slave or a prisoner for the rest of my life.。
There's no help. God is--。
He abandoned me, or he's not great enough.。
This is called learned helplessness.。
I'm not sure when we're facing difficulties, challenges in life,。
do we ask these kind of questions.。
A while ago, I was facing some challenges in my life,。
and I recorded some of my thoughts in a notebook,。
and I literally wrote these down.。
I said, "Has my favor run out?"。
Like, "Is God not favoring me anymore? Has my favor run out?"。
"Does he not love me anymore? Does he not want me anymore?"。
"Is he done with me?"。
I have all these dark thoughts in me that I have to battle every day,。
and these are some of the learned helplessness in our lives.。
And these thoughts, they start to change us.。
They start to shape our perspective.。
They will make us see ourselves as a victim or a prisoner all the time.。
We can see ourselves as victim of a dysfunctional family sometimes.。
We can see ourselves as victims of a bad economy。
because there's a trade war going on.。
I'm suffering. I'm the collateral damage.。
And sometimes we can see ourselves as prisoners to physical or emotional abuse,。
and we are caught in a victimhood.。
We're caught in being a victim.。
And so this victim mentality, it is indeed a prison of the mind.。
Let me say that again.。
When we're stuck in these kind of dark thoughts, these victim mentality,。
it becomes a prison for our mind.。
While a physical prison may limit someone's movement or freedom externally,。
this mentality or this victim mentality, it limits someone's internal freedom.。
And we may be walking outside, but inside we felt we're not enough.。
We felt I can't do anything with my life because I don't have what it takes anymore,。
because I'm not good enough anymore, because nobody wants me anymore,。
because I'm a victim, because this or that happened in my life before.。
That's why I am not entitled to a full life anymore.。
It becomes a prison internally.。
And even if circumstances change, and they do change sometimes,。
the victim mentality can keep a person locked in their past.。
Oh yeah, that happened in the past, so I can't imagine there's a future.。
Before I was diagnosed with ADHD, that's exactly how I felt.。
I thought I felt so many times before, I can't foresee there's a future for me.。
I can't see there's any chance of success for me in the future.。
We're stuck in the past.。
It prevents us from stepping into healing or purpose or any new opportunities.。
So Genesis 41 showed us how Joseph was brought out of the physical prison.。
Let's continue with that verse just now.。
It says Pharaoh had a dream.。
In fact, he had two dreams.。
The first one, seven sleek and fat cows came up from Nile,。
they were just eating, and then suddenly there were seven ugly cows came up,。
and they just ate those seven cows.。
First dream, done.。
And second dream, oh, there is this seven healthy grain growing up,。
and then there is this seven ugly, like, scorched grain heads growing up,。
and they kind of like eat it.。
I don't know how grain can eat grain, so.。
I've been imagining this so many times, I still can't understand this dream,。
but anyway, it's a dream, so just live with it.。
So the two dreams are basically the same dream, but they are also two dreams.。
And Pharaoh woke up, and he tried to ask his staff,。
"Hey, can anyone tell me, hey, magicians, hey, you guys,。
you study the stars or whatever, and can you tell me what is this about?"。
Nobody could answer that.。
And suddenly this guy was holding his cup.。
Oh, I remember a guy from the prison.。
He interpreted my dream.。
Oh, my Lord, maybe he could interpret your dream as well.。
And so now we see Joseph was brought out of the prison,。
and he stood before Pharaoh.。
Great for him.。
He was physically taken out of the prison.。
And, of course, Pharaoh asked him to do what he does best,。
dream interpretation, right?。
And so now we know that all those seven, like, fat cows or, like, the healthy grains,。
it represents seven years of abundance that's coming,。
and then the other seven means seven years of famine coming.。
So this is just Joseph doing his thing.。
But here I would like to describe it as what I would call a combo of gifts and talents.。
Joseph didn't just interpret it supernaturally, the dreams of Pharaoh.。
That's a supernatural gift.。
But he also told him, "Hey, Pharaoh, you know, I got a game plan.。
You just have to, you know, during that seven years of abundance,。
you just have to store up everything, and during those seven years of famine,。
we can take care of that.。
This is the game plan.。
Come on, you just need someone who is so smart, who is so mature, who is a mastermind."。
And just so happened he himself is one.。
We see a combo of gifts and talents, supernatural gifts and natural talent.。
The supernatural gift of dream interpretation and his natural talent,。
he's an administrative mastermind, which I'm definitely not one.。
But I know there are a lot in our midst as well.。
But so he was using his God-given gifts.。
He knows dream interpretation that comes from God.。
God provided this ability to him.。
And even his administrative mastermind, that skill, it also comes from God.。
God provided him with the necessary skills and talents for him to get out of prison.。
So immediately he transitioned from prison to palace,。
or he transitioned from being a forgotten prisoner rotting in his cell。
to the second in command in the entire nation of Egypt.。
Two years, two full years of waiting in prison,。
yet it only took a two-minute speech, a two-minute dream interpretation to get him out of there.。
Like, "Wow, God, why don't you give him that dream earlier?。
It just took two minutes and see, I'm out here. I'm good again."。
But here's the thing.。
Although the palace had always been God's purpose and plan for Joseph,。
let me say that the palace has always been God's purpose and plan for Joseph since day one.。
He couldn't see it. Joseph couldn't see the palace while he was in the prison.。
How could he? How could he imagine there's a palace waiting for him。
while he's rotting in his cell, forgotten, nobody remembered him.。
He couldn't see that when he was in his slavery.。
He definitely couldn't see that when his brothers dumped him in that pit.。
We also can't see God's purpose and plans in our life all the time,。
especially when we're in our struggles.。
When we lose a job and couldn't find another one,。
when we were dumped, I guess,。
like your beloved boyfriend or girlfriend decided to break up with you,。
or when there's a serious problem in your health, in your family,。
financially you're struggling,。
when we're in that prison, when we're in that pit,。
there's no way we can imagine we could see the palace that God has prepared for us.。
There's no way that we could see the purpose and the plans that God has for us.。
If I'm honest with you, a lot of times, well not a lot of times, sometimes,。
a decent amount of time, I do feel that.。
Before this Uncharted project came into being,。
for the last couple of months I've been wondering,。
"What am I doing here, God? What am I doing with my life right now?"。
There are times that we're just simply stuck in the prison,。
and in the prison it's so hard to see what's out there for me,。
what God has planned for me.。
And we're like, "God, what am I doing here? Where are you?"。
We're sitting ducked, like we're just stuck here.。
"God, where are you? Where are you?"。
But there's one thing today perhaps we could learn from Joseph.。
When we cannot see God's purpose and plans for us,。
at least we could still hold on to his presence and his provision.。
Let me say that again.。
Joseph, he didn't see God's plans and his purpose for him,。
yet he was holding on to God's provision and God's presence in his life.。
That's what we read in the last couple of chapters.。
We saw that Joseph knew the presence of God was with him.。
He treasured that presence, and he honored God even in Potiphar's house,。
so that he rejected that temptation.。
He's not doing it out of his fear or his respect for Potiphar, his boss.。
He was doing it out of his respect for God.。
He feared God, and he treasured that presence of God that he knew was in his life.。
He wanted to continue to steward that presence.。
And, you know, in his life, we could see that.。
We could see that when he was in the prison,。
and he was interpreting dreams and doing all that,。
he knew he's using heavenly resources, his ability from God,。
allowing him to do so, to interpret dreams.。
He could say, "I cannot do this, but the interpretation of dreams is with God."。
What we know is God providing him that ability to do that.。
He was holding on to the presence of God.。
He was holding on to the provision of God in his life,。
even though he cannot see the purpose and the plans of God in his life.。
But sometimes we give up too soon.。
"Sorry, I'm stuck right now. I thought my career would be taking off.。
I'm stuck here right now.。
I totally cannot see what God is doing, what He has planned for me.。
Maybe I should give up now. Maybe I should walk away from my faith right now."。
Sometimes we give up too soon because we cannot see the purpose and the plans from God.。
But Joseph here, he couldn't see that too.。
He simply held on to God's presence and His provision.。
He asked me, "How do you do that, Chapman?"。
Let me tell you, it is by spiritual discipline,。
which I've talked about a couple of months ago.。
You see, if you don't have spiritual discipline,。
you'll be happily worshipping God in good days.。
And in bad days, you're like, "God, I hate you. You've forgotten about me.。
I don't want you anymore."。
Sometimes my daughters tell me that, and I don't do what they like.。
So I know.。
Spiritual discipline makes sure we stay there in the presence of God.。
We come in front of Him and worship Him every day.。
Like regardless, God, regardless what happens, I'm here to worship you.。
I'm here to draw near into your presence.。
I'm here to stay with you.。
And indeed, it's in your spiritual discipline, it's where you encounter God.。
And when you encounter God, your faith levels start to rise inside of you.。
Sometimes when we're looking at our circumstances, we thought,。
"Okay, maybe I'm not quite sure if God is here. I'm not quite sure God is with me."。
And it's harder even to say God has a purpose for me or a plan for me in my life.。
I know when I'm in good days and I'm getting a promotion,。
when I'm in church, you know, "Oh, Enoch is leading a great worship time.。
Yeah, maybe I can feel that."。
But when my boss says, "Sorry, I'm letting you go."。
When my partner is saying, "Sorry, we have to break up now."。
You certainly don't see that or you certainly don't feel that,。
that God has a purpose, that God has a plan for you right there, right then.。
If it's up to our feelings, we probably would have run away from God.。
But if it's up to our discipline, if we discipline ourselves,。
no matter how hard it is, we come before God and say,。
"God, I'm struggling with this, but I know your presence is still here,。
and I just want to be in your presence."。
Then we meet Him.。
There our faith will start to rise.。
Sometimes it's so hard in our circumstances to say that God has a plan for me.。
I know we need to declare by faith.。
I know that I've read everything about it in the Bible.。
I know that we live by faith and not by sight.。
But if you've been there like I did, you would know it's extremely difficult。
when a circumstance happens in your life that, you know, I'm doomed.。
It's so hard to believe that God still has something for me.。
But if you cannot see God's plan and purpose for you,。
why don't you just simply come into His presence?。
Hold on to His presence.。
Hold on to His provision in your life and allow Him to meet you there.。
Allow Him to speak to you.。
Allow Him to fill you with His Holy Spirit once again.。
It's not when you have stored up enough faith,。
you come to God and declare all those great things.。
It's when you are empty inside.。
You come before God in His presence and you feel,。
"Oh, God, you are filling up that tank of faith again。
because in worship I start to see who you are.。
I start to see your majesty. I start to see your glory.。
I start to feel your love once again.。
Your joy starts to flow in me so I can have faith to declare that,。
yes, I believe there is a plan.。
There is a purpose from God for me, although I don't see it now,。
but I totally believe it."。
It's not the other way around.。
It's not you try to buff up and say, "Yes, I believe."。
No, it's when you're weak, you just simply come before God,。
just as who you are, and you allow the Holy Spirit。
to fill you with faith and love, and you can--。
so that you are able to say those words once again.。
If there's something I'm learning from Joseph, this is it.。
There's so many times in my life I can't see God's purpose,。
I can't see His plans, but I know His presence is still here.。
I know He's still providing for me, and I'm just going to hold on to that.。
God brought Joseph out of the physical prison。
the day Pharaoh summoned him, but that was not the end.。
God wanted to free him from that prison of the mind as well.。
I'm going to read the last bit of chapter 41.。
It says, "Before the years of the famine came,"。
so during that seven years of abundance,。
"two sons were born to Joseph.。
The firstborn, Joseph named him Manasseh,。
and said, 'It is because God has made me forget。
all my trouble and all my father's household.'。
The second son he named Ephraim, and said,。
'It is because God has made me fruitful in the land of my suffering.'"。
God healed Joseph, his wounds in his family,。
by giving him another family, giving him his own family.。
When his first son was born, he named him Forget.。
Who would ever name their kid like that?。
Hey, I'm having a kid. What do you want to name him?。
Forget. Forget him, forget me, forget who?。
Forget.。
But this name Manasseh, it is really significant。
because it describes not just what God had done externally。
to remove him from the prison,。
it also talks about what God is doing internally。
in Joseph to set him free from his past.。
It says, "God has made me forget all my trouble。
and all my father's household."。
You see, forgetting in the Bible,。
it's not just talking about the absence of your memory。
or your memory being erased that you can't remember anymore.。
It actually talks about refocusing.。
It talks about a shift in perspective.。
It talks about a change in focus and a new way to interpret his past.。
So forgetting, it doesn't mean those memories in the past。
suffering was lost or erased. Not at all.。
This word in the Bible or in the Hebrew,。
it could also mean like neglect or like overlook.。
Now he has a new focus. That doesn't matter anymore.。
He's looking at something else.。
He's fixing his eyes on something else.。
And that's the things that God has laid before him.。
You know, we might have been victimized。
in certain circumstances in our lives,。
but we're more than that.。
I don't look at myself and call myself,。
"Yeah, I'm that guy who lost his mom when I was three."。
I just keep reminding myself, "I moved on from that.。
Yes, that tragedy happened in my life,。
but there's so much more in my life.。
I have friends. I have a community.。
I have a family here who loves me.。
I have a family inside that room who loves me as well.。
I'm loved. I'm filled with love.。
God has put all these friends and people,。
I would call family, around me.。
I'm not just that boy who lost his mom,。
who's crying, who is lonely.。
I'm not that boy anymore.。
There's something else God has done in my life.。
I can move on. I can forget,。
not forgetting the fact that my mom did pass,。
but I'm refocusing myself in a new identity.。
That doesn't have to be the only thing。
that defines who I am anymore.。
When Paul wrote this to the Philippians,。
he said, "I should forget what is behind。
so that I could strain forward to what is ahead."。
Again, Paul was not talking about。
whatever happened in the past.。
"I can't remember anymore. Amnesia.。
I don't remember what happened."。
He's not talking about that.。
All those things happened in the past,。
it's still in his memory,。
but now he's not focusing on that anymore.。
He's not trying to base his identity。
on his past achievements or past failures.。
He said, "Now I have a new identity.。
God has called me. Christ has called me.。
I'm running this race. I'm straining forward."。
This is exactly the same, what Joseph is doing here.。
He said, "I'll forget my past.。
I'll forget all those troubles.。
Those troubles, they don't define me anymore.。
I'm not a prisoner anymore.。
I'm not a slave anymore.。
I'm not the abandoned one anymore.。
Now I'm a trustworthy leader.。
Now I'm a father,。
and I'm going to walk in my identity.。
I'm going to walk in my new destiny."。
That's what he's saying.。
And perhaps, some of us,。
we need to remove some of these,。
or forget some of these labels in our lives,。
some of these identities that we held on to.。
Maybe it's time for us to have a new identity.。
That's not the end.。
The second son, he named him Ephraim,。
and said, "God has made me fruitful。
in the land of my suffering."。
It's beautiful.。
The story of Joseph reminded us。
something very important here.。
You see this word, "fruitful,"。
the first time it appeared in the Bible,。
it was Genesis 1, verse 28,。
when God created Adam and Eve.。
He blessed them and said,。
"Be fruitful and multiply."。
You know, being fruitful is the first ever blessing。
that humanity received from God.。
It was always in God's plan for you and me,。
for the entire humanity,。
to be fruitful.。
But because of our rebellion,。
because of our sin,。
sin entered this world,。
pain entered this world,。
suffering entered this world,。
death entered this world,。
and this world had become a land of suffering.。
And yet, Joseph is saying here,。
"God has made me fruitful。
in the land of my suffering."。
You know what? Yes.。
Because of our sin,。
because of the sin of others in this world,。
this is indeed a land of suffering,。
but God has not given up blessing us.。
He has not given up His purpose.。
His purpose is to see us being fruitful in our lives.。
That's why when Jesus came, He said,。
"Yeah, the thief would come,。
he would still kill and destroy,。
but the Son of Man has come,。
and I'm here to give you life,。
and life to the fullness.。
I'm here to give you a fruitful life.。
I'm here to restore the first blessing,。
the first command of God in your life,。
so that you would have a fruitful life."。
So whatever you faced in the past,。
whatever you suffered in your memories,。
that does not matter anymore,。
because God is here to give you a new identity.。
He is here to give you a new future.。
There is a purpose in your life.。
There is a plan in your life.。
Maybe you and I don't see that right now,。
but God says, "I'm here to bring restoration。
to our broken life,"。
so that He's determined God will make you and I。
fruitful in the land of suffering.。
Can I get an amen for that?。
This world is still a land of suffering。
to a certain extent,。
but God said, "I'm determined to make you fruitful.。
I'm determined to be with you,。
to pour out my Spirit in your life.。
I'm determined to bless you."。
And so, if you feel you're in a land of suffering right now,。
like Joseph,。
my prayer for you is that。
you too will be able to stand in front of God one day。
and say, "God has made me fruitful。
in my land of suffering."。
There's something we can learn from Joseph today,。
that we don't always see God's plans。
and His purpose in our lives,。
but if we stick to our spiritual discipline,。
we can still hold on to His presence,。
we can still hold on to His provision,。
and we'll ultimately see that when we walk with God,。
He is the one who makes us forget,。
who makes us refocus, reorientate our mind。
on the new identity that He wants to give us.。
We don't have to be stuck in our past,。
stuck in our trauma.。
Our trauma never gets the final word in our lives.。
He made us forget, you know,。
leave it behind so that we can move forward,。
and we'll finally see that even in the land of our suffering,。
God is going to make us fruitful here.。
This is the good news that we're here to bring。
to Hong Kong, to the next generation,。
to those around us.。
Shall we pray?。
Why don't we stand?。
[Pause]。
I just want to begin praying by saying that。
God knows your pain today.。
Whatever I've said in the last 30 minutes,。
it doesn't mean your pain does not matter to God.。
I'm not saying that.。
It does.。
God is still the God who would hold your tears.。
He's still the one who put His arms around you.。
But He's simply saying,。
"I do not reject your pain, but at the same time,。
I don't want to let your pain define who you are."。
And that's why I'm here,。
and that's what I want to do in your life today.。
Maybe for some of us today, it's time to let go.。
It's time to forget, to reorient,。
reorientate our thoughts and our identity.。
Maybe you're still holding on to something。
that you've experienced in the past.。
Maybe that becomes part of your identity.。
That's how you think of yourself.。
That's how sometimes other people think of you.。
God says it's time to forget and move on,。
to leave it behind.。
If you're willing to let go, He's ready.。
He's ready to do that in your life.。
If you give Him permission,。
He's ready to come and give you a heart surgery today。
so that when you walk out of these doors,。
you see yourself as a new person.。
You see yourself with a new destiny.。
You see yourself with a new identity.。
And we're more than willing to pray with you today.。
I feel some of us, we just need to--。
if you've been asking the question, "God,。
what's your purpose?。
What's your plan in my life?"。
I need to see that before I can trust you.。
Can I gently invite you to give that up as well?。
As a matter of fact,。
we don't always see His plans and purposes for us,。
sometimes only from hindsight, like Joseph.。
Like he could say, "Oh, God brought me to Egypt。
to preserve all of your lives."。
He only knew it from hindsight,。
not that he got a vision or calling。
before he was taken to Egypt.。
No, he didn't.。
Sometimes you will only understand God's purpose。
and plan in your life on hindsight.。
You will only understand after it happened,。
are you okay with that?。
Maybe you're stuck because you want God to tell you,。
lay out the entire plan,。
give you a timeline before you can move forward.。
I invite you today,。
just lean into His presence.。
And His presence allowed yourself。
to gaze upon Him to know how mighty He is,。
so that even when you don't know the entire plan,。
you trust Him enough.。
You don't just trust His plans,。
you trust Him.。
I pray for breakthrough in faith.。
I pray for healing in hearts.。
Come Holy Spirit,。
we make room for you to do what only you can do。
and to do what only you want to do in our hearts.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
