So I have the habit of taking songs and changing lyrics.。
And so even though it's going to be a little bit cringe,。
I'm going to do that for you, okay?。
So I came up with this earlier.。
I was listening to one of the songs playing, and it says,。
"I want to wish you a singed-on firelock.。
I want to wish you a singed-on firelock.。
I want to wish you a singed-on firelock。
from the bottom of my heart."。
Yeah.。
[applause]。
Yeah.。
So, yeah, I know.。
Thank you for making me feel better about this.。
But I have actually a question for us as we get started,。
and it is this.。
What is your favorite Christmas song?。
Now, this could be a Christmas carol.。
This can be a pop song.。
This can be a classical piece.。
And I'm actually not asking a rhetorical question.。
I actually really want to hear from you,。
and this includes you kids.。
You know, what is your favorite song?。
So if you have one to share, just raise your hand,。
and I'll call on you and share with me your song.。
Yes.。
"Last Christmas."。
"Last Christmas."。
[applause]。
Right there.。
You and I.。
It's my favorite.。
Good one, good one.。
Actually, I'm going to talk about that later.。
That was perfect.。
What else?。
What else do we have?。
Yes.。
My son's favorite is "Mistletoe."。
"Mistletoe."。
Okay.。
[laughter]。
So I don't know that one, but I'm sure it's a great one.。
I heard something over here.。
Yes, go ahead.。
"All I Want for Christmas."。
What?。
[laughter]。
Is it that one?。
"All I Want for Christmas is You."。
Yes.。
That's also a good one.。
Mariah Carey.。
Okay, one more.。
Let's do one more.。
Yes, back there.。
What's that?。
"Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer."。
So there's a classic as well.。
So, hey, these are some incredible songs that you chose。
to share with us.。
Thank you so much also for everyone who did that。
who was brave.。
Thank you.。
Appreciate that.。
Now, I don't know if you've ever noticed that around Christmas。
there's all this singing, and there are all these songs,。
whether Christian or in pop culture,。
and there's just something about Christmas that even changes。
our playlists.。
Like on Spotify, it's like the only time where I wrote in。
quite different playlists in the year, right?。
And so why is that?。
What is it about Christmas that brings forth all these songs,。
all this singing?。
And I don't know if you knew, but actually in the Bible,。
there's also three Christmas songs that are part。
of the biblical story.。
So I want to share with you today my favorite song。
and show you something amazing in it.。
So let me take you to Luke chapter 2,。
and starting in verse 8, it says this.。
"And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby,。
keeping watch over their flock at night.。
And an angel of the Lord appeared to them,。
and the glory of the Lord shone around them,。
and they were terrified.。
But the angel said to them, 'Do not be afraid.。
I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all people.。
Today in the town of David a Savior has been born to you.。
He is the Messiah, the Lord.。
This will be a sign to you.。
You will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger.'。
Suddenly a great company of heavenly hosts appeared。
with the angel, praising God and saying,。
'Glory to the God in the highest heaven and on earth peace。
to those on whom his favor rests.'"。
So that part is actually a song that I'm talking about.。
And then continuing in verse 15,。
"When the angels had left them and gone into heaven,。
the shepherds said to one another,。
'Let's go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened,。
which the Lord has told us about.'。
So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph。
and the baby who was lying in a manger.。
When they had seen him, they spread the word。
concerning what had been told them about this child,。
and all who heard it were amazed with the shepherds,。
what the shepherds said to them.。
But Mary treasured up all these things。
and pondered them in her heart.。
And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God。
for all the things they had heard and seen,。
which were just as they had been told."。
So for me, it's fascinating that the birth of Jesus。
brings forward singing, this joy.。
And I don't know if you've ever had this experience in your life.。
You receive some good news and you cannot help but to sing,。
maybe do a little happy dance.。
You know, people do that in different ways.。
And there's just something that is so good。
that just needs to be expressed, you know,。
through singing or dancing.。
But what is it about Jesus, this child that is born,。
that brings forth these songs and this praise?。
You know, what is it? Why is that?。
So I want to share with you some thoughts on that.。
So first, an angel appears to the shepherds in the fields,。
and there's something he says,。
"I bring you good news that will cause great joy。
for all the people.。
Today in the town of David, a Savior has been born to you.。
He is the Messiah, and he is the Lord."。
So the good news is announced by the angel.。
He uses three really loaded and charged words.。
It's like dropping three, you know, bombs with so much meaning,。
basically, on the shepherds.。
And it's even hard to do justice to talk about。
what these three words in that first century context meant.。
Savior, Messiah, Lord.。
I'm going to just very briefly talk about them.。
But there's so much more to it.。
But let me just briefly talk about it.。
The first one is Savior.。
Jesus' birth is good news because he's a Savior,。
because he has come to be born, to die for our sins,。
so that we can be restored back to the Father,。
that we can experience wholeness and also peace in our lives.。
So Jesus is Savior.。
He comes because we need rescuing.。
You know, if there is no need for a Savior,。
no Savior needs to come.。
But Jesus comes because we need it.。
And secondly, Jesus' birth is good news because he's the Messiah.。
There were all these--there were expectations.。
God promised that the liberator would come to set his people free。
and restore them back to prominence and establish God's rule.。
And so now the angel announces to the Israelites this promise。
after 400 years of silence from the prophets,。
that this promise of a Messiah is finally being fulfilled.。
This is incredible news.。
And then finally, we're also told that Jesus is Lord.。
That means that Jesus is God.。
He's God with us.。
And that's very important because it means that he has the power。
and authority to actually bring about the saving and the healing in our lives.。
Because if I die for somebody, it doesn't do anything for anyone really.。
But when Jesus does that, he really has the power and authority to save。
and to move and to act in our lives.。
So it's no wonder that the angels--that they hear this--the shepherds,。
they hear this incredible message from the angels,。
and then the angels can't help themselves.。
And so first there's one, now suddenly a host of angels appears.。
The whole sky is filled.。
A host means it's basically a term actually for army.。
So there's an army of angels, a large group of angels filling the sky,。
and they are singing and praising God.。
They're saying, "Glory to God in the highest heaven and on earth,。
peace to those on whom his favor rests."。
And so the angel songs, it adds further to describing what this good news is.。
So first we had Savior, Messiah, Lord.。
Now we have also the word peace.。
So their song expresses that God's desire for all people is peace.。
Now this could sound very generic, but it's actually a very powerful。
and important concept.。
Underlying this is actually a Hebrew word,。
even though the biblical text is in Greek,。
but it was Hebrews who were writing and authoring this.。
And that's the word shalom.。
And shalom in the shortest, simplest way means wholeness,。
that Jesus has come to bring wholeness,。
wholeness in our relationship with God,。
wholeness in our relationship with each other,。
wholeness in relationship even to creation,。
wholeness in relationship to ourselves,。
because a lot of times we're even at odds with ourselves.。
And so that is what the angel is announcing.。
And you know this peace, this shalom, is actually available to you right now.。
You might not feel that way, but this peace is available to you right now.。
So the peace that Jesus brings, it's different than worldly peace.。
Worldly peace is usually something we have good finances,。
we have good relationships, everything is going right in our lives,。
then we have peace.。
And even then, sometimes we actually don't have peace, right?。
Even if all those things are in place.。
But then when our circumstances change,。
and maybe those things, they fall out of place,。
then that peace is gone.。
And we lack peace.。
But what the angel is announcing is that Jesus,。
he brings a peace that is not dependent on our circumstances,。
that is greater than our circumstances.。
That it does not matter what is going on in your life,。
that Jesus can meet you, and he can give you peace。
despite the storms, the challenges that you are facing.。
And it really is a supernatural thing,。
because we cannot do this on our own.。
It's only something that God can do in our lives.。
So I don't know if you are having peace this Christmas.。
I've been a pastor long enough that I know that there's a lot of challenges.。
Maybe there's relationship problems, maybe there's finance problems,。
family problems, personal failures, health problems, emotional problems.。
All these things that can steal the peace, the hope, the joy that we have,。
they can pull the rug from underneath us in our lives.。
But that's why Jesus came.。
That's why he's born.。
He wants to restore us, to bring hope, to bring peace, to bring wholeness.。
You know, where there's brokenness, where we're a mess.。
And he wants to meet us in our uncertainties, in our questions, in our struggles.。
And he wants to give us his peace and his wholeness。
that only God can give, that nothing else in this world can bring.。
And this peace is found when we have a personal relationship with Jesus.。
And when we learn to just live in this relationship,。
when we learn to live in this trust,。
and learn to walk through things with him and depend on him,。
the Spirit of God brings us peace upon our lives.。
So Jesus, he came, he was born to die,。
because he loves you so much.。
He came, he laid down his life so that we can be forgiven,。
so that our relationship that is broken with God can be restored,。
and to bring just his wholeness and his goodness into our lives.。
And so with Jesus we can face anything.。
He loves you, he's for you, he's not against you.。
He has given everything.。
He was God eternally,。
and he humbles himself, he was born as a little helpless child,。
so that he can reveal to us God's love,。
reveal to us how he feels about us,。
and then ultimately lay down his life for us.。
So that's why Jesus came, to bring salvation,。
to bring his peace, to bring wholeness into our brokenness.。
But it even gets, you know, this news actually gets better.。
The good news of Christ's birth is not just good news for a select few.。
It's not just for the super Christian,。
it's not just for those who always do good,。
it's not for those who've been living this perfect track record life.。
In verse 10 it says, you know,。
that the good news will cause great joy for all the people.。
So this good news is available for all.。
Sometimes we feel it's just for those special people who have their life all together.。
It might even seem that those who are on the margins,。
those who are struggling, that Christmas and this whole Jesus and all this peace,。
that's not for them, it's not for us.。
But when the angel appeared to shepherds,。
who were people who were on the margins,。
who were people, you know, they were not good with social relationships,。
so they had the job as a shepherd.。
And they were marginalized in society, were looked down upon.。
But God chose to reveal this good news to them.。
And by doing that he's saying, you are significant.。
This good news is for you.。
This is not just for people in the center of power。
or for the people who are the majority stockholders of this company.。
This is good news for everyone.。
Doesn't matter what social status, doesn't matter what life record track you're on.。
So this means whether you are Christian here or not,。
whether you are living a good life or you're living a bad life,。
whether you feel close to God or right now God seems as far away as you can imagine,。
the good news of Christmas is for you.。
And it is available to you because it is grounded not in your goodness,。
not in your behavior, but in God's love, his character, his grace and mercy for you.。
He has chosen to love you.。
He has given everything for you.。
He is for you.。
And he is offering us this relationship and this peace to us.。
And so the peace that is available through Jesus is God's gracious and undeserved gift offered to all.。
Doesn't matter who you are.。
Doesn't matter if you feel like you're not qualified.。
It is for you.。
And so that's why this is my favorite Christmas song in the Bible.。
Because this truly is good news for everyone, not just for a few.。
Now what I love about the story is that it's not only the angels singing and praising God,。
but actually they're declaring this great news and they're inviting other people to join and sing.。
And that's also an invitation to us to join in with singing and with praise in this good news.。
Now don't worry, I'm actually not going to make you sing like I did earlier.。
And there's actually something deeper and more important to the singing.。
There's actually deeper parts, so let me explain this.。
In the story we see that the shepherds, they receive that announcement.。
And they could have just gone, "Oh, thanks for letting us know," and they can move on with their lives.。
But they go and they see for themselves that what the angels had is truly true.。
And then they cannot help but also join in singing.。
They receive this good news themselves.。
This good news has moved from kind of this announcement out there to suddenly it's become personal good news.。
It's good news for them personally, not for other people, but for them personally.。
That Jesus is Savior and Messiah and Lord.。
So there's a shift that takes place.。
And the same is true for us.。
This is good news of Christmas.。
It needs to be something that we receive.。
So we need to receive this good news that breaks into the night, even in the darkest nights of our lives, of our souls.。
We can't earn God's love and His saving and holiness bringing work.。
We can only receive it and have Him meet us in whatever it is that is going on.。
Have break into the darkness, the struggle, the pain, whatever it is.。
But we need to receive it.。
It's like any gift.。
It's only yours when you actually take it and receive it.。
So I want to share with you how you can respond to this incredible news of Jesus' saving and peace bringing work.。
And I'm going to go a little bit out on a limb here, kind of like earlier in my message.。
I'm going to use a little bit of a silly illustration, but I think it will make it helpful.。
And it's from what I was saying, the Christmas song from Wham!, "Last Christmas."。
And so, production, can you please play the music?。
Last Christmas I gave you my heart, but the very next day you gave it away.。
This year to save you from tears, I give it to someone special.。
So we've heard these lyrics, right?。
Now, while this song is of course about romantic love and heartbreak and everything,。
we join in singing and praising God by giving our hearts to the one who is truly special.。
Now, we've been giving our heart to other things.。
We think we find peace and wholeness in other things.。
So we go searching, we go scrambling, we try hard.。
We try to find whether it's peace in other relationships,。
we try to find peace in finances, material possessions, and all these things.。
And we're trying so hard, but they just can't deliver.。
They can't do it. They can't bring the peace of God.。
Because we're trying to get these things to do what only God can do.。
And so when we try to, when we basically make those things God,。
and we think that they're going to bring us wholeness, that they're going to make us feel okay,。
we just end in heartbreak.。
Because we've been giving our heart to the wrong things.。
And so this Christmas is an invitation to give your heart to somebody who is truly special, which is Jesus.。
So don't miss the good news of Christmas and receive the good news.。
Give your heart to Him.。
Now some of you might say, "Is this really good news? Is this really true?。
Is this guy just hyping all of this up?"。
Well, ultimately, you can only find out for yourself.。
But I want to actually right now, I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
And you know, Jesus came because He loves you. He is for you.。
And He wants you to know His love. He wants you to know His care.。
He wants you to know His peace. He wants to unfold wholeness, shalom, in your life.。
And He brought us about by dying on the cross for your sins.。
So that you can be forgiven and that your relationship between you and God,。
that is at odds, can be restored and you become part of God's family.。
And so in just a moment, I'm going to pray for all of us.。
But I actually want to invite everyone to stand right now.。
And I want to give an opportunity for those of you who've never given their hearts to Jesus,。
to the one who is truly special.。
I want to actually just give you an opportunity to do that.。
To invite Jesus to come into your heart.。
As I was preparing for this message, I was thinking of myself.。
I became a Christian when I was a teenager.。
And I was struggling. There was anxiety. There was fear.。
And there were sleepless nights for almost a year.。
And then in a conversation with my father, he's like, "Have you ever placed your trust in Jesus?"。
And really what that meant for me was just surrender.。
I just surrendered to Jesus. Like, "Jesus, I can't do it.。
Will you come into my life? Will you do it?"。
So I want to invite you right now, if you've never invited Jesus in your heart,。
and if you want to express with yourself that, "Jesus, I want you. I need you."。
You can just quietly, before you just stretch out your hands,。
you can do it like very minimal, however you want to do it, it doesn't matter.。
You can just express it.。
Say, "Jesus, I want you in my life. I need you in my life.。
I want this peace. I want this relationship with you."。
So you can do that right now.。
Let me pray for you. Let me pray for all of us.。
Jesus, I thank you for every hand stretched out.。
I thank you that you are the true gift of Christmas, the true peace bringer.。
I pray right now that you come into everyone's life who has stretched out their hands,。
who's saying, "Jesus, I need you. I want you."。
I pray that this will be the greatest Christmas,。
that you will make yourself known, that you will reveal your love,。
and that you will bring your peace, your shalom, your wholeness that only you can bring,。
that you fill everyone with your Holy Spirit.。
Thank you, Jesus. Thank you, Jesus, for life's being turned to you right now.。
We praise you.。
And thank you, Jesus, for everyone else here today.。
You know everyone's journey. You know what their Christmas is like today.。
I pray that you would bring your love, your comfort, your peace, your presence.。
Will you show your presence that you are with us?。
And as your presence breaks upon us, as we become aware of it,。
may you fill our hearts with joy and fill our hearts with songs of praise。
that you are the glorious Savior who loves us, who came, that's why he came.。
And so we want to praise you, Lord. So I pray this in your name, Jesus. Amen.。
Amen.。
