So, I'm sure you would agree with me that there have been some pretty incredible inventions。
over the years, the centuries, right, that really have transformed and revolutionized。
how we do things, even the simple things, you know, like a light bulb.。
Could you imagine if we didn't have a light bulb?。
Electricity.。
Even an umbrella.。
Who was thankful for the invention of an umbrella today?。
The World Wide Web Internet as we know it.。
I mean, sometimes we may not be thankful, but I think the majority of us would say technology。
has advanced at incredible paces, and if you're watching online, you get to benefit with that。
as well today.。
Well, one of my favorite inventions has to be the Kindle.。
I love the Kindle.。
Now I know all of you book lovers out there, you know, the ones that like to touch and。
feel and smell the pages.。
Yes, yes, I know, we're getting nods here.。
Heather Rose, I know you're watching online.。
I know you love your books as well.。
Well, I love the books, the Kindles, especially living in Hong Kong, because you know what。
it's like if we have too many books?。
Where do we put them?。
So with a Kindle, you can have hundreds of books, and you do not have to worry about。
storage, right?。
I love my Kindle because I love reading, and I love stories, and stories can be powerful。
tools that really do shape how we think and how we view the world.。
Think of your favorite movie or book.。
When you're immersed in that book or that movie, and you are so engrossed with what's。
happening, you have no idea what's happening outside of that book or that movie, and your。
brain is telling you that you are part of that story.。
Well, there is a term for this.。
It's called narrative transportation theory.。
Did you know that?。
It's true.。
It's amazing what you learn here in church.。
Narrative transportation theory, seriously.。
This suggests that the power of stories can actually change attitudes and intentions that。
are reflected in the story.。
I am 100% convinced this is true.。
When I watch Tomb Raider, I am Lara Croft, and I am abseiling down the IFC.。
Now if you've never watched Tomb Raider, you have no idea what I'm talking about, but the。
point is in our 21st century, with social media, we know that stories impact us.。
It can be negative, and it can be positive.。
I love that Jesus was way ahead of all the philosophers and the psychologists of the。
past and the influencers of the present in understanding how stories draw listeners in.。
They influence thoughts, feelings, and behavior.。
As we come to the end of our series on parables, we have seen how Jesus used stories to disrupt,。
to challenge, and inspire.。
Jesus was not just a great storyteller.。
Jesus intentionally provoked the imagination of his audience to dismantle their views of。
the world, in particular its value system, so that the true nature of God's world would。
be revealed, and that would inspire change.。
Jesus knew that the people that gathered around him, those that loved him, those that hated。
him, and those that weren't quite sure what they thought about him, were far more likely。
to be challenged to look at the world differently when they heard parables, stories that they。
could help see the world, force them to think, make choices.。
Do they embrace this new upside-down value system, or do they ignore it and just continue。
with life as they have always done and face the consequences?。
And this week, we are looking at the parable of the rich man and Lazarus, found in the。
Gospel of Luke.。
So as we open up God's word, as we listen to Jesus' words, let's also be willing to。
dismantle our own worldviews, challenge some of our behaviors, so that we are inspired。
to live a kingdom lifestyle.。
And as I read through Luke now, I want to invoke your imagination.。
We're going to do that through words and art.。
And so as I read, you will see various artistic interpretations of this parable presented。
over the centuries.。
So sit back, look, and listen.。
There was a rich man who was dressed in purple and fine linen and lived in luxury every day.。
At his gate was laid a beggar named Lazarus, covered with sores, longing to eat what fell。
from the rich man's table.。
Even the dogs came and licked his sores.。
The time came when the beggar died and the angels carried him to Abraham's side.。
The rich man also died and was buried in Hades, where he was in torment.。
He looked up and saw Abraham far away with Lazarus by his side.。
So he called to him, "Father Abraham, have pity on me and send Lazarus to dip the tip。
of his finger in water and cool my tongue, because I am in agony in this fire."。
But Abraham replied, "Son, remember that in your lifetime you received your good things。
while Lazarus received bad things, but now he is comforted here and you are in agony.。
And besides all this, between us and you, a great chasm has been set in place, so that。
those who want to go from here to you cannot, nor can anyone cross over from there to us."。
He answered, "Then I beg you, Father, send Lazarus to my family, for I have five brothers.。
Let him warn them so that they will not also come to this place of torment."。
Abraham replied, "They have Moses and the prophets; let them listen to them."。
"No, Father Abraham," he said, "but if someone from the dead goes to them, they will repent."。
He said to them, "If they do not listen to Moses and the prophets, they will not be convinced,。
even if someone rises from the dead."。
So what was Jesus trying to convey to the audience of his day?。
From the previous verses, we can assume that Jesus is addressing the parable to his disciples。
and to the Pharisees, who had earlier been sneering at Jesus when Jesus was teaching。
the disciples that you cannot love God and money.。
And as Jesus begins this parable, we know, or we can just imagine, how annoyed the Pharisees。
were beginning to be with Jesus.。
There are two main characters that Jesus introduces at the start, the rich man and Lazarus.。
And we have vivid descriptions that leave the listeners in no doubt that we have someone。
very wealthy who's living a life of luxury and indulgence in contrast to a man named。
Lazarus, who is living in inhumane misery.。
Even the dogs are mistreating him.。
He's destitute, isolated, alone, hungry, physically and emotionally suffering.。
Now interestingly, this is the only parable where Jesus actually names one of his characters.。
And scholars debate various different reasons why Jesus does this.。
But what it does show is how significant this suffering man was to God.。
Calling someone by their name is very personal.。
It invokes a connection to that person.。
And here, our pearl man is named Lazarus, which actually means God helps, and which。
we see as being prophetic as the story unfolds.。
This is an important reminder to us today.。
And it should be a comfort in a world where it is easy to feel nameless and unknown, forgotten,。
unseen.。
God does know us, he does see us, and he calls us by name.。
Some of you are here today, and maybe immediately you identify with Lazarus.。
You too are suffering in your own ways.。
You don't feel seen.。
You don't feel heard.。
You don't feel known.。
You have huge needs that are crushing you at times, needs that you share and needs that。
you hold, and only you know the weight of them.。
Well, my prayer for you today is as we unfold this story together, that while you're here,。
you would experience the Holy Spirit ministering very personally to you.。
Because as I stand here and I look out at lots of different faces, God looks out and。
he sees every one of you and knows you by name.。
May God minister to you personally, and may you leave here being known, being seen, being。
loved, and with hope.。
Jesus makes this contrast with a nameless rich man who doesn't invoke any sympathy.。
And even though Lazarus is on the doorstep of the rich man, he's lying right in front。
of him, there is no excuse for not knowing that this Lazarus is there.。
But the rich man is portrayed as doing nothing, simply living his life his way every day.。
And then as the story unfolds, we see a dramatic switch in their circumstances, which happens。
when they both die.。
Death comes to us all.。
This would have been a reminder to everyone, it's a reminder for us today, regardless whether。
you're rich, you're poor, whether you obey the law, you don't obey the law, whether you're。
a good person or whether you're a bad person, nobody can escape death.。
There is no escaping death, and there's no escaping judgment after death.。
But there is also hope, and that's what we see in Lazarus.。
Hope also for us as believers in Jesus that despite the challenges that we face now, despite。
the pain or the suffering that we endure, we will know hope, we will know comfort.。
Now Jesus is drawing on the ancient Jewish teachings of that day, which for sure the。
Pharisees would have been very familiar with.。
He introduces his listeners into the afterlife, the concept of paradise and hell, which in。
the Greek is referred to by Luke as Hades.。
It's strong imagery, would have been very familiar, very familiar to the Jewish people。
of Jesus' day, which paints that picture of this great patriarchal figure of Abraham comforting。
and blessing Lazarus while the rich man is suffering and in great torment.。
And again, the power in Jesus' storytelling is that it was relatable to his audience,。
its familiar language, its culture, and its beliefs that were prevalent at their time.。
The Pharisees believed in a bodily resurrection with life after death, where good deeds were。
rewarded and bad deeds punished.。
So they would have had no problem accepting that Abraham was in paradise, welcoming the。
righteous.。
No doubt the Pharisees though, living with an assumed presumption that they were all。
going to go to paradise one day.。
But as Jesus depicts in this particular parable, the one rewarded here and the one punished。
portrays a very different value system, which would have challenged his listeners.。
You see, what is interesting is that the rich man is not portrayed as having committed a。
particular sin.。
Doesn't look like he actually did anything wrong.。
Having money, being blessed with material wealth is not a sin.。
Jesus never said it was.。
Rather it is how we live with what we have.。
And in this case, it is the rich man's inaction and selfish living for himself that Jesus。
is calling out.。
Jesus is not condemning him for being rich.。
This is not a parable against those that have plenty.。
But Jesus' story was showing in the kingdom of God of which Jesus was there to proclaim,。
the poor and the suffering would be comforted and be rewarded as righteous and those that。
lived for themselves would be held to account.。
Not only is Jesus highlighting the lack of action by the rich man, he also portrays the。
rich man's arrogance.。
This is arrogant attitude.。
It continues right after his death.。
His language may be respectful to Father Abraham, but he has this expectation that Lazarus should。
come and serve him.。
It's almost demonstrating this sense of entitlement.。
There is this assumption by the rich man that Lazarus should leave his place of blessing。
by Abraham's side and go over and join him to alleviate his suffering.。
And Abraham's response to this is basically, "No."。
He points out a very different set of values, very different set of values and a sense of。
justice.。
After all, the rich man had already received all his good things on earth as Abraham had。
told him.。
And only then do we see a glimpse of the rich man thinking of others as he pleads on behalf。
of his brothers.。
But again, the response from Abraham implies that the rich man neglected scripture, its。
teachings, and even a miracle of somebody rising from the dead would make no difference.。
I cannot help but imagine how the readers of the Gospel of Luke would have made that。
connection right at the early church between Jesus' own resurrection and how true his words。
would be in their context when even after Jesus rose again, so many refused to believe.。
The kingdom of God was at the heart of Jesus' teaching.。
Not only did his parables focus on helping people to understand how the kingdom functioned,。
but he also challenged people to change their behaviors when seeking his kingdom.。
The Pharisees, many, many of the religious leaders of Jesus' day, they focused heavily。
on the law, or they appeared to do so.。
But they neglected the spirit behind God's law, the heart of God.。
They ignored the real needs of the people around them, and Jesus would not tolerate。
that.。
Jesus was so confrontational to the religious leaders at his time.。
You just need to read Matthew 23.。
I love Matthew 23.。
Jesus absolutely slams the religious leaders of his time.。
They represented the antithesis of who God is, his heart for the poor and the vulnerable.。
The Pharisees themselves played needless burdens on the people, and Jesus called them proud,。
boastful, show-offs, blind fools, pretenders, a brood of snipers.。
The list just goes on.。
In the kingdom of God, the poor, the suffering, the downcast, the oppressed are not unknown。
by God.。
They will be blessed.。
Never think that God is not aware or concerned with those living in poverty, those that are。
vulnerable, those that are suffering or oppressed.。
Scripture's very clear how much God is on the side of the vulnerable and speaks again。
and again for the justice for the marginalized and comfort to those who are in pain.。
And that is a comfort to us.。
The disciples were also present listening to this story, and I wonder what went through。
their minds.。
Did they relate to Lazarus and his suffering?。
Some of them would have had to have left their own material comforts as they followed Jesus,。
suffered their own hardship and persecution along the way.。
But they would have witnessed time and time again of Jesus modeling to them what it means。
to reach out and care for the poor, for the suffering.。
Jesus didn't ignore it, and his disciples could not either, and neither should we.。
Jesus spoke parables to teach about God's world that was in the present and in the future.。
And he lived out this new world by healing the sick, setting the oppressed free, caring。
for the poor, speaking up for the marginalized.。
And the disciples were in the midst of seeing the kingdom of God at work in real time with。
Jesus, and they were challenged also to make their own choices in how they responded in。
their own actions and attitudes.。
Those hearing this parable would have understood it to mean inaction and indifference to the。
poor and suffering were not acceptable in the kingdom of God.。
Never has been, and never will be.。
So what does this actually mean for us?。
How does this parable reshape our worldviews?。
How does it challenge us?。
How does it inspire us to live proactively with kingdom values, and maybe sometimes those。
values that are countercultural?。
I think for many of us, we do respond practically to help the poor and the marginalized.。
We use our resources in various ways, whether it's our time, our finances, our skill set.。
And I know many of you here are very generous.。
I just heard recently that there are a group of you that every Monday you're cooking on。
the first floor in our kitchen, preparing food, and then you're going out and you're。
feeding the homeless.。
And you've been doing that for years.。
I know that many of you work for NGOs or are in professions that care for others, that。
require you to advocate daily for those that maybe are of a lesser social status.。
There are many of you here that are providing extra support to the poor and the marginalized.。
And some of you are in positions of power, of influence, and you are choosing to make。
a difference, to use your resources to help others.。
You will hear us preach and teach from the front about the importance of social justice,。
about how it's important to treat each other respectfully and fairly.。
We will even call each other out when we've witnessed or seen some behaviors that don't。
treat people fairly, and we've spoken about those from the front as well.。
And that's all good.。
And let's keep doing good.。
And let's keep using our resources and making a difference and being a light in this city.。
But what I want to ask us is a question around how easily it is for our attitudes to subtly。
change which actually will affect our response and our relationship to those in need and。
our relationship to God.。
And we need to be on guard of those so we don't find ourselves suddenly acting like。
the rich man.。
I think the first attitude that we need to watch out for is this indifference.。
Indifference can come subtly towards us.。
We see it in this parable, even though the needs of Lazarus are very clearly in front。
of the rich man every single day, the rich man ignores him.。
And I think it can creep into our own lives without realizing it as our hearts can suddenly。
become a little bit hard.。
The reality is the world has a lot of needs.。
It can feel overwhelming at times.。
Many years ago, my husband and I, we set up a charity that was involved in working with。
a country that was facing huge economic collapse.。
We were specifically working with abandoned children.。
We were newly married.。
And honestly, there was a lot of sacrifice that went into setting this up, traveling,。
and not just the time but the money as well.。
And after a while, the demands, the constant demands that we, that I felt, started to get。
to me.。
And it wasn't until after a few years that I realized that actually I had become a little。
bit indifferent to those immediate needs around me, and that a sense of hardened heart had。
crept in.。
And I knew that because I found that I had this subconscious attitude of, "I've done。
enough.。
I've done a lot.。
I'm tired.。
I've done enough."。
Of course, I wouldn't say it, but I realized that that was something that was very real。
in my life.。
And it was only when I actually went to God and said, "You know what, God?。
I need you to break my heart for what breaks yours."。
And as Christians, I think that's something that we have got to regularly be asking ourself。
and praying.。
It's not enough to do it just because it's the right thing to do.。
But if we could regularly ask God, "God, break my heart for what breaks yours," then that。
would keep our hearts soft and that attitude of indifference away.。
The second attitude to be mindful of is entitlement.。
Oh, yes, it's a subtle one as well.。
And I'm sure at various times in our lives, we have had that sense of entitlement where。
you think you deserve special treatment.。
Maybe it's, "I've studied really, really hard and I've gone to a great university and therefore。
I deserve to have that better job with more benefits."。
Or maybe it's a case of, "Well, actually, I come from a first world country and therefore。
I'm a lot more knowledge educated than maybe somebody else."。
Maybe it's, "I don't have enough and you have a lot and so therefore you should help me."。
You see, entitlement has many different levels, but it does creep in.。
The rich man's sense of entitlement, that was clear, seen in his expectation even after。
death when he thought Lazarus should go over and serve him.。
There was no awareness that he had done anything wrong, but rather excuse after excuse.。
But in contrast, we see Lazarus who actually doesn't say a word throughout the whole parable.。
He doesn't complain about his life.。
He doesn't complain or express any resentment with the rich man.。
There's no gloating or suffering now that the rich man is in a different position.。
I'm not sure I would be so gracious.。
So we need to check our hearts.。
We need to check our hearts for that entitlement and we need to have that humility where we。
recognize that actually all that we have is given by God and that everything belongs to。
God.。
And that humility keeps us in an attitude where we are constantly again reflecting and。
choosing to follow God's ways, have his heart so that that's the attitude that we're responding。
to others with.。
But imagine in the city of Hong Kong or the place where you're residing now, if we as。
followers of Jesus decided to adopt the kingdom principles, which saw us acting in generous。
ways, kindness and compassion to everyone around us.。
Recently the Hong Kong tourism board launched a new campaign to encourage people to be more。
hospitable to each other, especially the tourists, right?。
I don't know why, but apparently we as Hong Kongers can be rather unfriendly and rude.。
I don't think that's true.。
But anyway, I actually think it came from this kindness movement that Singapore launched。
a number of years ago.。
They also said that they would like their people to be encouraged to be kinder to each。
other, especially to the tourists.。
We live in such a transactional world.。
Let's be kind because then more people will like us, then they will spend more money and。
that will help our economy grow.。
The world that Jesus spoke about was the opposite.。
This is not how the kingdom of God operates.。
This is not how we should approach our relationship to the poor or those in need.。
Rather when we realize we do not deserve anything and yet God gave everything, that should want。
us to respond in generosity towards each other for no expected return.。
Whether we have plenty, whether we have less, we are all able to lead this city and show。
as we represent God's way.。
And how can we practically respond to this message?。
What does it actually look like when we leave this place?。
Well back in Easter, my family and I, we went to Taiwan.。
We had a couple of days in Taiwan.。
And we were in this particular place one day where we had been dropped off and we were。
looking around a village and we had to then get back to the car that was picking us up。
at a certain time.。
It was a really, really hot day and part of getting back to the car involved walking up。
a very, very, very, very steep hill.。
It probably is about a 10 minute walk up.。
And as I say it was very, very hot and it was also busy.。
There was a lot of people around.。
And I'm there with my son.。
My son is 16.。
And we're walking up on a time, we've got to get to the car.。
And I'm saying to myself, "Oh, I'm so hot, so hot.。
Come on, we've got to get there, got to get there."。
And in front of us, there is this grandma.。
She must have been like late 70s, early 80s.。
And she's pushing a push chair with a four-year-old in it.。
And she's like pushing it up the hill like this.。
And it's hot and I'm looking at her thinking, "Oh, no, this must be really hard for her.。
She's got to push that child all the way up the hill."。
That's what I'm thinking.。
My son, my son is tall and strong.。
He walks in front.。
As he's walking, he looks and with his hand, he grabs the front of the push chair and he。
starts to pull the push chair up the hill.。
And the grandma is like, "Oh, thank you, thank you, thank you so much."。
And the toddler is so excited.。
And you know, I watched my son and I thought, "Wow."。
I was in the same situation and my response was, "Oh, that's going to be tough for her."。
My son's response was action.。
And afterwards when I said to him, "How did you even think about doing that?"。
I was like, "I'm so proud of you."。
And he was like, "Hmm."。
And that is how we make a difference in Hong Kong, where we choose to see the people around。
us and where we choose to act differently, where we choose to allow what God has done。
for us to propel us in many different small and large ways where we can make a difference.。
We all are known and loved by God.。
The sacrifice on the cross is evidence.。
It is evidence that God loves us all.。
The desire for him to be in relationship with us should propel us to love others as he asked。
us to do.。
So I leave you today with a very simple question and challenge.。
Who is on your doorstep?。
And what are you going to do for them?。
Would you stand with me as I pray for us?。
And as we enter into a time of response, the song "Chosen" I believe is a prophetic word。
for us to sing because it talks about having God fill our hearts so that we will lead out。
of God's love and that we would see those around us and respond out of love to those。
around us.。
May this message not just be, "Well, that was a nice message," or not, whatever.。
May this message with the power of the Holy Spirit transform us as a church.。
May we the vine be known for our good deeds, our kindness, our generosity, not because。
it's a good thing to do, but because of the power of the Holy Spirit working through us,。
that transforms a city.。
So Father, as we stand here now, as we ask for your Spirit to empower us to live a life。
where we can bring change, where we can be countercultural at times, where we embrace。
the value system of the kingdom of God, I pray for the Lazaruses in this room right。
now who don't feel known, but they are known.。
And I speak that over you, are known.。
God knows your situation.。
He knows exactly what you need.。
And I pray that you would be filled with the comfort and the presence of the peace of God。
as you leave this place knowing that you are seen by God.。
I pray for our young people.。
I thank you that they are a witness to us.。
And I pray that you empower our young people to see the needs around them and to simply。
show and lead the way of what it means to love and care and be kind to others.。
May we learn from them.。
For us, Father, as we leave, as we look at who you have placed on the doorstep in front。
of us, may we not walk by, but may we take action.。
And may you break our heart for what breaks yours.。
We pray all of this in your name, Jesus.。
