Father, we're just so grateful, grateful that we gather on Sunday here in Hong Kong and。
lift up our hearts and our minds to you to sing these songs that speak of your goodness。
in your life, to hold forth the hope that is in us because of the resurrection of Jesus.。
And Father, I want to thank you for each person here.。
Lord, I thank you that you have called them.。
Thank you, Lord, that no one is in this room or online right now by mistake.。
And Father, I want to pray that as we celebrate Easter together, that your spirit would descend。
upon us.。
Father, we're thankful that in the word Paul would say that the same spirit that raised。
Jesus from the dead is now in us.。
And Lord, I pray that as we open up this idea of you being in us and with us on Easter Sunday,。
that Father, you would come and just begin to speak and minister to each person.。
I pray that no one would leave here today without having felt a personal, a personal。
embrace from you.。
And I thank you, Lord, that you know each person here by name and you love them.。
You know their stories.。
You know what sits on their hearts.。
You know their dreams.。
I pray that they would feel that in your resurrected power, you would come and speak to each one。
personally today.。
Father, we thank you for this in Jesus name.。
Everyone says, "Amen."。
Hey, can we thank our band, our worship team?。
So grateful.。
Have a seat.。
Have a seat.。
Well, welcome to the Vine.。
My name's Andrew.。
If you're new to the Vine, we're so glad you're here.。
Welcome on Easter Sunday.。
And I am just so excited that you would be with us and that we get to celebrate together。
the beauty and the profundity of the fact that we worship a God who did not die, but。
was raised again.。
And you know, there's something very, very special in the fulfillment of a dream.。
I'm going to say that again.。
There's something very special about the fulfillment of a dream.。
And in this room right now, as I look around, there are so many dreams that sit on our hearts.。
For some of you in this room, those dreams are, you're already living them out.。
You've already embraced them.。
You're already walking in them and you're finding great joy in your life as you live。
out your dreams.。
For some of us in this room, perhaps those dreams have only just begun.。
Perhaps you've just started to take the first tentative steps in faith towards the dreams。
that you sense that God has put on your heart.。
Perhaps for some of us in this room, we're still wondering what the dream is.。
Perhaps we're still asking whether God has a dream for us, whether there is a purpose。
to your life.。
And I want you to know that there is a dream that God holds in his heart for you, that。
he longs to impart into you so that you can live a life that you so long to have lived.。
No matter how you might feel in the room today, we gathered together today on Easter Sunday。
to celebrate a long held dream that God had in his heart that now comes into its fruition。
on this day and is now celebrated in the lives of Christians all over the world.。
And the dream is this, that life can actually overcome death.。
Come on church, that life can actually overcome death.。
In 2016, I was reminded of the power that there is in the fulfillment of a dream.。
At the time I was actually in Israel and I was there with a film crew from the Vine here。
and we were filming a teaching series called the story of Jesus, which was a series on。
the gospel of Luke.。
And we had traveled to Israel to film this series in all these different locations.。
In fact, in our shooting production, we had 40 locations over 10 days of shooting.。
40 locations all over Israel in just 10 days, which meant we had four locations every single。
day.。
What this meant was we had to have an incredibly tight and structured shooting schedule.。
In fact, our production manager, Riley, had come up with a shooting schedule that had。
everything literally down to the minute.。
And we had very precise amounts of time that we could spend in the location we were going。
to film.。
So what would happen is we would show up in our big van that we had hired, we'd get to。
the location, we'd jump out the van, everybody would frantically get the cameras ready.。
I would be frantically trying to memorize my lines.。
Somebody would shout action.。
I would stand in front of the camera and do my thing.。
We'd get the shot, we'd jump back in the van and off we would drive to the next location.。
It was crazy.。
Now one of the episodes that we had planned was an episode on the baptism of Jesus.。
And we thought to ourselves, how do we portray the power that there is in the baptism of。
Jesus?。
And we decided that what we would do is we would go to the formal baptism site of Jesus。
on the Jordan River and we would film and interview people getting baptized.。
And we would ask them why they're getting baptized in the Jordan River and what baptism。
meant for them.。
And we thought this would be a great way to help to communicate to the church the power。
of baptism.。
Now three months prior to the filming trip, we took what's called a recce trip to Israel.。
That's when you go and you scout all the locations.。
And I remember on the recce trip, we showed up at the baptism site on the Jordan River。
and it was heaving with people.。
There was probably about 200 people that were getting ready to be baptized.。
There were people queuing up all over the place, getting to be let down into the water。
and to be baptized.。
And we thought this is amazing.。
We're going to be easily be able to capture 20, 30, 40 different interviews from these。
people and it's going to be an incredible episode.。
It was actually the one that we were looking forward to the most in filming.。
So three months later, there we are in Israel.。
We show up at our appointed time to film at the baptism site and no one is there.。
Like no one.。
It was open, but no one was there.。
There was not a tour bus in sight.。
Now this was like day seven of our 10 days of shooting and we were all getting a little。
bit irritated at each other by this point.。
You can imagine a crew that's lived together so tightly over such an intense period of。
time.。
And I remember we get there and we're like, "Where are the people?。
Why are there no people here?。
This is ridiculous."。
And I remember being so angry and frustrated at the crew, at myself, at God.。
I got out of the bus and I left them all behind on the bus and I stormed down angrily towards。
the baptism waters.。
As I get down there, it's completely empty, but I look over to the right and standing。
under the shaded awning are two people, an older lady and her son.。
I walk over to them and I introduce myself and they introduce themselves.。
The lady's name was Perla and Perla was from the Philippines and it was her son that was。
with her.。
Now Perla was even more frustrated than I was, but she had a much better reason for。
it.。
Perla began to tell me her story.。
At the age of five, she had a dream, an actual dream.。
And in this dream, she saw somebody grab her hand and lead her down towards a muddy stretch。
of river water.。
And as she walked down to it, the waves formed a word and the word was Jordan.。
And she was led down by this person in her dream into these muddy waters that said Jordan。
and she gets dunked into the water.。
She comes back out of it and then the person leads her out.。
Now this is a five-year-old girl who doesn't really have a full understanding of what baptism。
is all about, but she shares the dream with her family who are all Christians and they。
get so excited.。
"Wow, you had a dream where maybe it was Jesus who led you into the waters of baptism.。
This is so amazing."。
And from that point forward, Perla had a long held dream in her heart.。
Her dream was that one day she would get baptized in the Jordan River.。
For 70 years, she held onto that dream.。
And she was getting old in her life by this point.。
And they were not from high socioeconomic means.。
And so her son decided that, "Look, we need to do this before she passes away."。
So they managed amongst their friends and family and relatives to scrape enough money。
together to pay for a flight from the Philippines all the way to Israel.。
They had arrived in Tel Aviv Airport that very morning.。
They had jumped into a taxi and done the three and a half hour journey down to the baptismal。
site and they get out of the taxi and no one is there.。
It's completely empty.。
And she walks down to the waters and she's desperately trying to find somebody to baptize。
her and no one's there.。
So she goes into the waters and she starts to baptize herself.。
She takes the water and she's like trying to do this on her head.。
And then she comes up out of the waters and she says to me these words after we'd been。
talking for a while.。
She said, "I got here and I was trying to baptize myself.。
I came out of the water and I'm like, 'There's no priest.。
There's no priest.'"。
That moment, the Holy Spirit rushed through me in a way that I had not experienced before.。
And I said to her, I said, "I know I don't look like a priest, but actually I kind of。
am.。
I'm a pastor of a church in Hong Kong.。
Do you want me to baptize you?"。
You should have seen her face.。
She just lit up.。
And I took her by the hand and I walked her down to the waters of the Jordan River.。
And our film crew captured the whole thing on film.。
Do you want to see it?。
You want to see it?。
All right.。
Here it is.。
Let's have a look.。
I'm from the Philippines.。
When I was little, I'm always going to church with my grandmother.。
I always go to church and hear the Mass.。
I try to go around the world because it's my dream.。
I'm praying that I'm going to see the place where Jesus was born and it's my wish to be。
baptized in that place where Jesus was baptized.。
When we come here and then we go down to the water, no priest.。
But I say to my son, "Take me a picture."。
That just to remember I was here.。
And I get the water.。
I do like that.。
And then I pick up the water and baptize myself like that.。
And I pray a little.。
And then I said, "Oh, there's no priest."。
And then we go up.。
And then I said to my son, "Let's sit down.。
I will pray a little."。
"Please come that you will baptize me here."。
And have you dedicated your life to following him the rest of your life?。
Yes, I do.。
Wonderful.。
That's why I'm very happy.。
So it's my privilege, Ampala, to baptize you in the name of the Father, the Son and the。
Holy Spirit.。
So I'm very lucky today that I'm baptized here.。
I'm 75 years old tomorrow.。
Yeah, isn't that beautiful?。
So I look a lot younger in that film.。
So God spoke to me really powerfully after that moment.。
And here I was so frustrated that I couldn't get my little film made, that I couldn't get。
all the interviews of the baptisms that I wanted.。
And God was like, "Andrew, you worry about such little things."。
And what I was doing was using you to be a part of fulfilling a dream that I had 70 years。
in the making.。
I want you to know that we come to church today to celebrate a dream that has long been。
held on God's heart, the dream to reconcile humanity back to himself.。
And we have 22 people across the day today, 11 at this service specifically, who are a。
living testimony that God had a dream on his heart for them.。
And I want you to know in this room that God has a dream on his heart for you too, whether。
you are a Christian here or not.。
If you're not a Christian here today and someone's invited you here, we're so glad you're here.。
And I want you to know that God has a dream on his heart for you.。
And he's held that dream for years and years and years.。
And he's wondering whether today might be the day where his dream for you is fulfilled.。
If you're a Christian here, God holds dreams on his heart for you too.。
Dreams for you to continue to live in the power of his resurrection, wanting you to。
live in such a way that would bring him glory.。
And he holds those dreams for you as well.。
For close to a thousand years, God held a dream in his heart.。
And he got it created humanity good.。
He had created humanity in his image and humanity had this incredible relationship with him.。
And yet then humanity decided to turn to its own ways, to rebel against God himself.。
And in so doing brought what we term and talk about as sin into the world.。
But really this phrase sin, it just means brokenness.。
It means rebellion.。
It means the things that we do against God's heart.。
And humanity comes and decides to live in that way.。
When that happens, sin comes into the world at that point and the world has changed drastically。
from that point forward.。
The Bible tells us that the wages or the cost of our sin is death.。
And from that moment when humanity turns its back on God, there is a new narrative that。
is in the world.。
It's the narrative of a sin that breaks us and leads us towards death.。
For a thousand years, God holds on his heart this dream that one day he would send a Messiah.。
One day he would send one from himself, a son of God, who would be able to reconcile。
and redeem humanity back to God because this one would be sinless.。
This one would live a life where there would be no sin.。
Because of that would be a perfect sinless sacrifice for humanity.。
And the prophets of old in Israel had prophesied about the coming of this dream.。
And then in the birth of Jesus in Bethlehem, that dream begins to happen.。
And Jesus grows up and starts his ministry.。
And it's amazing how Jesus starts his ministry.。
He decides to start the ministry with a baptism, which is really fascinating because in that。
time baptism was done by John the Baptist.。
And John the Baptist was baptizing people in the Jordan River, the very place that you。
saw in the film there.。
And he was baptizing people as a repentance of their sin.。
People were deciding that they didn't want to align themselves to the story of death。
anymore.。
And they wanted to align themselves to God again.。
And baptism was a symbolic way for them to do that.。
And Jesus at the start of his ministry thinks to himself, "What's the best way that I can。
start my ministry?"。
He decides to go into the waters of baptism.。
Now this is interesting because he did not need to be baptized.。
Jesus is the only one who's ever lived who's never needed baptism.。
As a sinless person, he didn't need the waters.。
So the question is, what was Jesus doing there?。
Well, I think there's two things.。
I think one thing was he was declaring solidarity with broken and sinful humanity.。
He was saying, "I want to align my story with yours so later you could align your story。
with mine."。
And he goes into the waters of baptism as a symbolic gesture of saying, "I understand。
what it is to be human."。
But I think he's also doing something.。
I think more than that, he's actually prophetically beginning to speak of all that was to come。
at the end of his life.。
For at the end of his life on the original Easter weekend, we see a baptisms of sorts。
taking place there.。
Jesus on the Friday goes to the cross, having been arrested, betrayed by his friend, having。
been put on trial for something he did not do, having been beaten almost to death, nailed。
to a cross in excruciating pain.。
And then in that moment, as a perfect sinless sacrifice, taking on all of our brokenness,。
all of the brokenness of humanity then placed upon him, taking on the pain of sin in order。
that we would not have to.。
And in his death, he is then buried.。
Joseph and Nicodemus come and take his body down from the cross, and they wrap him in。
some grave clothes and shrouds, and they place him in the tomb.。
Now they can't complete the burial because it's Sabbath now.。
And so they step away for 24 hours.。
And at the end of those 24 hours, the women come with the spices to continue to anoint。
his body for burial.。
And of course, they walk into the tomb and his body they do not find.。
But the burial is significant because the burial speaks of this idea that Jesus in that。
point separates himself.。
We can kind of call it the lonely Saturday, if you will, a time where he is separated。
from humanity, but also separated from God.。
And in that separation, trusts that God will raise him back to new life.。
And on that third day, when the women arrive, when Peter runs into the tomb and the grave。
clothes are no longer on a body, but on the floor, symbolizing that the thing that symbolized。
sin and death was now discarded and not needed anymore.。
And there's these incredible angels.。
And they say to the women in particular, Mary herself, they say to Mary, "Hey, why do you。
look for the dead in this place?。
Why would you look for the living amongst the dead?。
For he's not here.。
He has risen."。
And they begin to realize that Jesus is no longer held by the captivity of death.。
They understand that in his resurrection, he begins to forge a new path, begins to show。
this incredible idea that in the resurrection of life, death no longer has the final say.。
And so Jesus begins his ministry in a representation of baptism, and he finishes his ministry in。
a moment of death and resurrection.。
And it's the apostle Paul, one of the earliest theologians of the church, who pulls all these。
threads together and makes the connection.。
And he begins to understand what it is that we now do in the symbol of baptism as Christians.。
I want to read this to you.。
It's found in Romans chapter six, starting in verse three.。
Says this, it says, "Don't you know that all of us who were baptized into Christ Jesus。
were baptized into his death?。
We were therefore buried with him through baptism into death in order that just as Christ。
was raised from the dead through the glory of the father, we too may live a new life."。
He says, here's what is happening in the symbol of baptism.。
He says baptism and Easter are completely linked.。
In fact, what happened in that first Easter on the Friday and the Saturday and the Sunday,。
when we come to baptize people, when we come to our own baptism, we are symbolizing the。
movements of Easter.。
Notice the first thing he says.。
He says, "We are being baptized into his death."。
This is really powerful for Paul.。
What he's saying is when we do baptism, we're not just symbolizing something, we are actually。
literally dying with him.。
Our old self that has been dominated by the narrative of sin and death dies with him.。
It goes into death with him.。
When we baptize people, we bring them down towards the water.。
The reason why we do that is because it symbolizes the trust that Jesus needed in his death on。
the cross.。
When he said, "It is finished," and breathed out his last, he was relaxing, going back。
into the arms of God and 100% trusting him that he would rise him again.。
We symbolize that beautiful thing that Jesus does on the cross as we take people down into。
the waters of baptism.。
Jesus taking on our sin.。
Jesus standing in the place where we should have stood.。
Jesus receiving the punishment that should have come to us.。
He stands in the gap and he says, "I don't want your story of death to continue more,。
for there's a new story that can come."。
Then Paul links this to the burial.。
He says, "Therefore, we have therefore been buried with him through baptism."。
Baptism is not just about us aligning to the death of Jesus.。
Baptism is also about us now aligning to the burial of Jesus.。
That's where in the original burial there was a separation that took place.。
So for us, that takes place as we take people down into the waters of baptism.。
What we do is we fully immerse people under the water.。
I like to hold people under there for as long as possible, particularly if they look really。
sinful.。
I shake them a little bit.。
Watch this guys, because this is going to happen.。
We hold people under the water because we're symbolizing a separation.。
For Jesus, the separation was between humanity and him and him and God.。
For us though, the separation is with our sin.。
And we are separated in the burial of Christ as we align ourselves to his burial.。
We separate ourselves from our sin.。
It's like we take the grave clothes off of us and we lay them down once and for all.。
If you were here with us on Friday, when we celebrated our Good Friday services, you may。
still be wearing one of these symbols of the grave clothes of Jesus with you.。
What happens in the burial of baptism is that we finally remove those grave clothes.。
We take them off of ourselves and we throw them away because we do not need them anymore.。
And then what happens is we rise people back up into life.。
Notice how Paul writes this here.。
He says, "Just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, we too。
may now live a new life."。
Notice from verse 5 onwards.。
He says, "If we have been united with him like this into his death, we will certainly。
also be united with him in the resurrection.。
For we know that our old self was crucified with him so that the body of sin may be rendered。
powerless.。
That we should no longer be slaves to sin because anyone who has died has been freed。
from sin."。
Paul does an incredible thing here.。
He's like, "You want to know what happens in our baptism and how it aligns to that first。
Easter?"。
When we bring people out of the water, the water rushes off of them.。
It's like the sin is washing away from them.。
And he says, "When Jesus was raised from the dead, what God was proclaiming over all the。
world was that sin was rendered powerless."。
The Bible says that the wages of sin, the power of sin is death.。
In Jesus' resurrection, he's saying, "Uh-uh.。
Your life is no longer a full stop.。
Death is not a full stop anymore.。
It's merely just a calmer and an ongoing journey because there is now resurrection."。
Sin has been rendered powerless.。
It no longer has the power to define you to death.。
Although it will still, every single day, try to drag you down that narrative.。
But as a resurrected believer in Jesus, we have the same spirit in us that raised Jesus。
from the dead.。
And that spirit enables us to testify that for us, sin is powerless.。
That's the beauty of why we're here, guys.。
That's what we're celebrating in the symbol of baptism, in the beauty of Easter weekend,。
that no longer is death our story.。
This is why, my friends, baptism is always a public act.。
Normally, when we do baptisms here at the Vine, we do it down at Repulse Bay on a Sunday。
afternoon because it's super public.。
There's like hundreds of mainland tourists that gather around with their phones going,。
"What is going on with these people dunking each other?"。
We get a chance to go around and share the gospel with people who watch.。
You see, the reason why it's public is because of this.。
Baptism is a subversive and radical proclamation to the world that there is indeed another。
story than the story of death.。
Baptism is a bold proclamation that there is a new beginning for anyone who wants it。
at any time.。
Anyone at any time.。
That's the beauty of Easter.。
That's what we celebrate as we gather here together, that anybody at any time can come。
into a new beginning, a new life.。
They don't need to do a course.。
They don't need to study for years.。
They don't need to pretend that they're good.。
They don't even need to get better.。
They just need to come before Jesus and say, "Thank you."。
They need to say that, "I recognize that you have taken my sin.。
I recognize that you've been raised again.。
And I know I've got a long way to go to consider myself righteous, but I accept your righteousness.。
I accept the work that you've done on the cross, and it now comes to me.。
And my story has now changed."。
The dream that God holds on his heart for you is ultimately that your story would change,。
that you would not be a lying to the story of death, but a lying to the story of life.。
We have literally died with Christ.。
We have been buried with Christ, and we have been raised with Christ.。
That's what we celebrate today.。
Not the thought of that, not a symbol of that, the reality that that is now our life.。
And because that is our life, baptism is not just a one-off moment that we do and kind。
of forget about it.。
In fact, what we're called to, my friends, is a baptized life.。
We're called to a life that is defined by the realities of what baptism has done.。
See, Easter is a reminder to us that we are to live this baptized life, that we are to。
recognize that we're now aligned to different concepts and different thoughts that God has。
in a different way that God sees the world, that we're aligned now to the dream that God。
has on his heart for humanity.。
And that dream is always reconciliation, resurrection, and renewal.。
That's our story now.。
And when we think of Easter, we should be thinking about it like that.。
Like I'm now living this baptized life, that death is no longer the end of my story.。
There's a new story for me.。
And every day is an opportunity for me to show the power of the Easter inside of me.。
I should be living every day going, "What is it in my world that needs to be reconciled。
today?。
How can I live out this idea that I can be a partaker in the reconciliation of all things?。
Where are broken relationships in my life that need to be reconciled?。
Where are people around me that I can help reconcile with them?。
What is going on in my society that needs to be reconciled?"。
That's a baptized life.。
What about the resurrection?。
What are some things that are dead inside of me right now?。
Maybe for some of you, there's some dead dreams inside of you, and today God wants to bring。
resurrection to them.。
Maybe there are some habits that you're doing right now that you want to die.。
I believe that if you bring them to Christ, he will help them to die for you, and he will。
resurrect new habits for you in place of the old that you've given to him.。
There's always a resurrection that we're anxious for, that we're longing for in our lives.。
What does it mean for us every day to live in the power of Easter and say, "Lord, what。
is it that needs to be resurrected in me today?"。
And ultimately, God is here for renewal.。
At the end of all things, in Revelations 21, it says this, "He will make all things new."。
It doesn't say, "He will make all new things."。
In other words, he's not wiping this whole thing out and starting again.。
He makes all things that are currently what they are right now new.。
People always say, "When you come to Christ Jesus, you are a new creation.。
The old is gone.。
The new has come."。
And if we celebrate anything on Easter, it's renewal.。
It's the idea that I'm a new creation, that what was old and dead in me has now come into。
the fruition of new life.。
That day when I was so angry and upset because my little film wasn't going to get made, Perler。
reminded me deeply that there are things far more important sometimes than just what is。
at our hands in that moment.。
That sometimes God is working behind the scenes, always working behind the scenes, to bring。
people from death to life.。
And if you want to live out Easter, that's the way to live it out, to have a radical。
thought, a subversive thought in your head, "Who am I going to encounter today that has。
been on God's heart for years and years that I might bring some reconciliation, resurrection,。
and renewal to?"。
What a beautiful way that would be to celebrate Easter.。
There's this beautiful thing that Perler says to me.。
She says, "There's no priest.。
There's no priest."。
Because of that, she was trying to baptize herself.。
The Bible is clear that we can't baptize ourselves.。
The Bible is clear that we can't get resurrection life in our own strength, that even our really。
good acts and really good deeds doesn't get us there.。
But here's the hope.。
Hebrews speaks of Jesus this way.。
It says, "In his resurrection, we now have a good high priest for all eternity."。
In other words, Perler's words those days no longer need to be muttered by anybody.。
Nobody now longer has to say, "There is no priest.。
How do I try to do this myself?"。
Because of the death and resurrection of Jesus, we have a good high priest every moment of。
every day so that anyone at any time can change.。
That's what we celebrate, my friends.。
And if you want to walk out Easter, if you want to be people of Easter, may you be people。
who live a baptized life of reconciliation, resurrection, and renewal.。
In Jesus' name.。
Can I ask you to stand?。
I want to pray for you.。
If you were here with us on Friday, over the worship time we're about to have now, I want。
to invite you.。
You can remove your little grave clothes, symbols of grave clothes that you're wearing.。
In a moment, we're going to baptize these 11 incredible people.。
And I want to invite you.。
We're going to do this in a atmosphere of worship.。
There's going to be worship happening here.。
I want to invite you to worship.。
It's not necessarily a spectator thing.。
It's something for us to worship together.。
But as somebody comes out of the waters of baptism, could we give the loudest cheer possible。
for them?。
And as we cheer them, what we're doing is we're saying, "That's also my story.。
That's also who I am.。
I am also one who's gone from death to resurrection because of this Sunday, because of the work。
of Easter together."。
So let me pray for us.。
Would you open your hands with me?。
Father, we just are so grateful that we get to come now to celebrate the beauty and power。
that is in baptism.。
So grateful that Paul was able to pull the threads together and help apply it to Easter。
itself.。
And now we understand why Jesus got baptized at the start of his ministry and went to the。
cross at the end of his ministry.。
Because right at the start, he declared what the work is that he would do, going down to。
death, going into burial so that he could be raised.。
Lord, as we now worship you in the reality of our resurrection, may we do so with great。
joy in our hearts.。
In Jesus' name, everyone stands.。
