Well, hello, hello, hello.。
So I hope you get to meet someone new.。
I hope that you are sitting around someone that you don't often see and then we can get。
to know each other and be connected.。
And actually, next week, there's an event going on that can get you connected as well.。
And that is our Bring Your Own Lunch.。
It is our monthly event where we get together and we, after the service, we all come with。
our lunches and go buy some food and come back up here.。
And it's a time for you to get connected with each other.。
So next week, Bring Your Own Lunch.。
And also today, don't forget, after service today, we are going to have our Feast of Common.。
So if you like, please stay behind, enjoy the game and the songs and the fellowship。
and to get to know someone new as well.。
And actually talking about connection, talking about community, there's one particular community。
that is always in my heart and that is the parents, especially September.。
September is coming.。
If you are not in the education sector or not a parent, September is just not a month。
for you.。
But if you're a parent or if you're stepping into primary one, September is a month that。
we all kind of, you know, have some doubts, have some, you know, tension about.。
And so next week, during our Bring Your Own Lunch, we are actually going to have a primary。
one prep sharing table.。
And what this table is like is that I have invited a few experienced teachers to come。
and to share about what teachers or what parents should prepare and to help them to feel more。
at ease about stepping into September as a fresh primary one family.。
And I've also invited, and if you, if your kid is about to step into primary one, please。
come to this event so that you're able to listen to, you know, experienced teachers。
talking about what are your expectations and what should you think about and what should。
you relax about, right?。
And if you have kids that are already along the way in primary three, four, five, six,。
you can also come and just share your experience.。
You know, it's, this sharing table is not about a one-way talk about, oh, this is, you。
know, what this is going to be about.。
You can think about this, you can think about that.。
No, sharing table is a table we created for us to have a conversation about things that。
is in our mind or in our heart.。
So please come.。
And if your kid is in like kindergarten stage and you want to know what kind of primary。
should I enroll my kids into, is all about fun, it's good for my kid, or should I give。
some, you know, academic expectation from my kid?。
What are schools like when we enroll into those schools?。
You can actually come and have a listen as well.。
So please scan the QR code and there's also poster over there if you want to enroll later.。
And also another very important event that is coming up is our Alpha.。
So last time we have our Alpha and we all have it all together, try Cantonese, the English,。
all in the same room and join it together.。
But this time we are going to have a separate day for our English Alpha.。
Okay, so if you want to join or if you want to invite someone, some of your friends to。
come and join Alpha, please scan for the English, English Alpha.。
We have our own Alpha session this time.。
Isn't it exciting?。
I have often meet friends that have been in, that heard about, you know, Christianity or。
this or church for a long time from their school, from their friends, but they're kind。
of scared or shy to ask questions.。
This is a time for them to come, to come just to learn what this, what church is about,。
what Jesus is about.。
It's a place for them to come and enjoy a dinner and ask questions and learn about it.。
And there are many times when people just come to faith during these casual conversations,。
casual but very important life conversations.。
So please invite your friends to come.。
Please tell them to come or yourself to come along and to join Alpha as well.。
But if you want to serve, if you have a missional heart and you go, actually, when I go and。
talk to people, I'm often very shy about, you know, evangelize or things like that.。
But in this Alpha course, when you serve, you can listen to what people, what people。
thoughts and questions are, and you can facilitate a conversation.。
And there are actually many other different roles in serving Alpha as well.。
So if you want to serve this time, if you experience it, or even if you have not experienced。
Alpha but you know you want to serve, come scan this code and be a volunteer.。
We have a training for you.。
So don't worry if you don't know what it is all about.。
There will be training.。
All right.。
And so it comes to our, we're going to step into our part of worship, which is our offering。
and our volunteers are going to pass around the bucket for the offering.。
Offering is a part of our worship because we realize that everything that we have is。
from God.。
And we just want to reflect that with the resources that we have given us.。
So in the Bible first that it says, each of you should give what you have decided in your。
heart to give.。
You don't need to be worried or you don't have to give, but it is a reflection of what。
God has put into your heart.。
So as the bucket pass around, take the time to think about God's grace for you.。
Think about your connection with God.。
And so as we're doing that, let us pray for our offering.。
Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you that you are a God and you sustain us, sustain us with。
financial income, but also you are sustaining us through all the other different ways as。
well with family, with relationship, with a roof over our head or with many other things。
that you've given us.。
And so we want to give to you as part of our worship, knowing that you are the one who。
sustain us, knowing that you are gracious and generous towards us.。
And we just want to give thanks through our offering.。
And in Jesus name we pray, Amen.。
And so today we have our Pastor Tim sharing with us an important word with us today.。
So let's all stretch our hands towards Pastor Tim.。
I know that there is a word in his mind about worship, about today's sermon that is going。
to change our perspective and our understanding and our hearts about who God is.。
And so Father, we pray for anointing in Tim.。
May the word that you have given him, may the sermon, the wisdom that you have given。
him through his life and through his word is going to bless and change and help us to。
focus on you.。
And so we thank you God for your anointing in Tim and may we open up our hearts and ears。
to listen to what you have got to say to us.。
And in Jesus name we pray, Amen.。
Thank you June.。
Well it's great to be back.。
It's been a month since I've stood here, so it's good to be back.。
When I was in my early twenties, I started a practice of journaling.。
So I'm just curious, does anyone here else journal or am I the only one?。
Okay, we have some people.。
Good, so a few.。
And as I was home this summer in Germany, I saw some of those old journals and I was。
like, "Ooh, this is interesting.。
I want to read."。
And especially about those periods of time where a lot of important things happened.。
So I was like opening my journal, I was reading.。
Some of it is written like okay, but the thing that really struck me and that really stood。
out was just my expression of worship to God as I was reading.。
There was this deep desire and longing to praise God, to give him glory and to honor。
him.。
And so that made me think about different seasons of worshiping, of praising God in。
our lives, in my own life.。
So I've had seasons where praise flows easily, maybe life is going good, I have a lot of。
support around me and everything, and I'm praising God.。
My faith is vibrant and it's awesome and it's amazing.。
But then there's also other times where maybe praising God through our songs, but also through。
our lives is a lot harder, where it's not easy.。
This can be for many reasons.。
It can be maybe we get busy with stuff in our lives, maybe there's other things that。
take on importance that we focus on, and so Jesus moves to the side, to the periphery.。
Maybe we're going through something difficult, like where it's just hard for us to have joy。
and we're just overwhelmed, and so it's just hard to worship and to praise God and to seek。
to honor him and to give him glory.。
And so I was wondering for you, what season are you in right now?。
What is your worship season right now?。
Is it one where you're praising God, where Jesus is at the center, and where all of life。
and all that you do, you want to serve God, you want to love God?。
Or has Jesus moved to the periphery, and for whatever reason, other things have taken over。
and have occupied your heart, your mind, your imagination, your time, your energy?。
Where are you?。
So I want to explore with you through this message a question, that is how is God inviting。
you to renew, strengthen, and deepen your personal worship of God?。
How is he inviting you?。
And so I hope that today through the message, you hear God, you hear from God, and he meets。
you.。
Today, we're continuing in our sermon series, "Bringing Glory."。
Now we started that last week.。
Pastor Chapman kicked off the series, and part of the reason why as a church, why we。
came up with this four-week sermon series, we're already almost halfway through after。
today, was because there was a sense that God wants to take us deeper in our worship,。
in our adoration, in our praise of him.。
That he wants to do something new among us, something fresh.。
And my personal sense was even that this is not just for the sermon series, but actually。
for the remainder of the year.。
God just wants to do something new there.。
So I'm excited about that.。
I don't know how that will express itself or what that will look like, but I'm excited。
about what God wants to do, and so looking forward to that.。
Now since we talk a lot about worship, I also thought maybe it's good to give a definition。
of what worship is.。
I was struggling with that a little bit because there's so many definitions, and some are。
like super long, so I decided to just choose a very simple one, so here it is.。
It's from John Pipe, he says, "True worship is valuing or treasuring of God above all。
things."。
True worship is valuing or treasuring of God above all things.。
So that means that all of our lives, this worship of God is expressed that we treasure。
Him, that we value Him, that we care about who He is and what He desires from us, that。
we seek to bring Him praise and glory.。
And that's in all spheres of life, what we do when we work, how we act in our families,。
but yes also how we sing, how we care for the city, all of those parts.。
And you can see what you're worshiping by seeing what captures the imagination, what。
are you spending time on, what are you spending money on, what are you spending most of your。
efforts on.。
And is God part of that?。
And so true worship is valuing or treasuring of God above all things.。
So this is where God wants to lead us deeper into.。
Now one of the main places that we learn about worship is the book of Psalms.。
Now I love the book of Psalms.。
It's the worship and praise book of the Bible.。
And it has all sorts of different songs and poems in it for different seasons of the soul.。
So some, in January we looked at lament, actually shows that complaining is part of our spirituality.。
We can complain to God and that that is actually an act of faith and that is an act of worship.。
But today we're looking at a different type of Psalm.。
We're going to be in Psalm 96 and I just want to set the context before I'll read it to。
you.。
So Psalm 96, the context is Israel has just returned from exile.。
So they were in Babylon for 70 years and they just got back and it was this incredible saving。
work of God that he did.。
And so people were excited.。
It was amazing and God was very real for people at that time.。
So let's, let me take you to Psalm 96 and starting in verse one it says this, "Sing。
to the Lord a new song.。
Sing to the Lord all the earth.。
Sing to the Lord.。
Praise his name.。
Proclaim his salvation day after day.。
Declare his glory among the nations.。
His marvelous deeds among all peoples.。
For great is the Lord and most worthy of praise.。
He is to be feared above all gods.。
For all the gods of the nations are idols but the Lord made the heavens.。
Splendor and majesty are before him.。
Strength and glory are in the sanctuary.。
Ascribe to the Lord all you families of nations.。
Ascribe to the Lord glory and strength.。
Ascribe to the Lord glory due to his name.。
Bring an offering.。
Come into his courts.。
Worship the Lord in the splendor of his holiness.。
Tremble before him all the earth.。
Stay among the nations.。
The Lord reigns.。
The world is firmly established.。
It cannot be moved.。
He will judge the peoples with equity.。
Let the heavens rejoice.。
Let the earth be glad.。
Let the sea resound and all that is in it.。
Let the fields be jubilant and everything in them.。
Let all the trees of the forest sing for joy.。
Let all creation rejoice before the Lord for he comes.。
He comes to judge the earth.。
He will judge the world in righteousness and the people in his faithfulness.。
So let's see how God might be inviting you through his psalm to renew, to strengthen,。
to deepen your worship of him.。
Now I want to break down a little bit how the psalm works.。
So in the psalm there's three movements of the same thing.。
There's a call to worship and then there's a reason for why we worship God, a call to。
worship, a reason for why we worship God, and a call to worship and a reason for why。
we worship God.。
And so the first call is to sing and then we're told because God is great.。
Then there is the call to scribe to the Lord and then the reason is because he reigns.。
He governs all.。
We sang earlier he is above all.。
I can remember all position, powers, dominions, whatever.。
Thank you June.。
And then the final movement is like there's this call to rejoice to all creation and then。
it says the reason for why we worship him is because he comes, he comes, that God comes。
to his people, he meets his people and to restore justice.。
So that's the movement of the psalm and it gets more intense as you go.。
It's intensifying.。
Now I want us to start off by looking at the first reason for why we worship God.。
And so that we find in verse four and says this, "For great is the Lord and most worthy。
of praise."。
So we praise God because he is great.。
Now our praise is not empty.。
It's not shallow.。
It has substance.。
It has a reason.。
It's based on experience.。
It's based on truth.。
So in Israel's case right now, what just had happened was absolutely incredible.。
They were for 70 years in exile, 70 years living in captivity and God freed them, brought。
them back to their homeland after 70 years.。
So that they could settle there again, rebuild Jerusalem, rebuild the temple.。
I mean, this was an amazing act of power.。
But it was not just God's power.。
It was also God prophesied, his prophets prophesied that he will do that in 70 years.。
So God is faithful to his word.。
So God is great because he's faithful.。
God does what he says.。
But not only that, there's more.。
God also showed mercy.。
Because the reason why Israel was in exile was because he had sinned over and over and。
over again.。
But now God was showing his grace and mercy and was bringing them back.。
And so Israel, the community of faith, God's people worship God because he is great.。
So it's rooted in what God has done.。
It's not just something that somebody says about someone.。
It's because of who he is.。
So God is most worthy of praise.。
Now what's interesting is our worship, worship is always revelation and then response.。
So what that means is we worship God because God in some way, in some form has himself。
made known to us.。
He has revealed himself to us.。
So in Israel's case it was this amazing redemption of bringing them back.。
For us, maybe it's what Jesus has done when we experience him coming into our lives and。
giving us peace and maybe doing some healing work in us.。
And so because of that, we cannot help because God has made himself known.。
He has revealed himself.。
We cannot help but to praise him.。
That's the only response that makes sense.。
But to move into praise, there always needs to be revelation of God showing his love,。
his care, his mercy, his power to his people in their lives.。
And then because of that, we fall on our knees and we say, we worship you, Lord.。
We love you.。
We praise you.。
We adore you because of God working in this way.。
Now when I was studying to be a pastor, I was going through a difficult season.。
I just lost joy in my life.。
I don't know if any of you can relate to that where joy suddenly just seems to have left。
the building.。
It's not Elvis, it was joy who left.。
And I was just really struggling.。
And one thing, looking back on that time, I wasn't praising God much.。
My praise was very little.。
Here I'm studying to be a pastor, my praise was very little.。
And I had an assignment in one of the classes which was to write down my spiritual journey,。
all the ways that God worked, all these turning points and difficulties, and just kind of。
map that out.。
So as I was doing that, I just started being overwhelmed by the mercy, by the goodness,。
by the faithfulness of God as I was looking at my life.。
I was remembering how Jesus freed me from spiritual oppression, where I had anxiety,。
I had fear, I had no peace.。
And Jesus gave me peace.。
I could finally rest.。
Then God in his sovereignty brought me from Germany where I was struggling.。
I was not a good student in Germany, I struggled with the school system.。
It's a little bit like Hong Kong, or at least used to be, where there's not much encouragement。
from teachers about your schooling and things.。
And so I just was not doing that well.。
But then because of basketball I went to the US, but later on looking back I saw that God。
brought me there, because there I met people my age who loved Jesus, who desired to serve。
him and follow him.。
I didn't have friends like that in Germany.。
So suddenly I was in this different, God brought me in this different context.。
I was doing good works in my life.。
Then God called me in just the right timing out of a job in finance.。
I was just about to invest a lot of money for somebody I knew.。
And if that would have gone through, I would have been stuck with it.。
God called me out into a different career path.。
And then I had this incredible experience of serving with YWAM, actually we have some。
YWAM people here, and God confirmed this call in my life.。
And then I felt like, well I probably should go to seminary or something and study so I'm。
qualified to somehow serve God as being a pastor, a missionary, or something.。
But I didn't have any money.。
And then I remember that God provided for me.。
I got a full scholarship to seminary.。
Now if you have ever dealt with seminary, that usually doesn't happen.。
Not only that, God provided for me work as a chaplain at the university for two years.。
So my housing was paid, my food was paid, my internet was paid, my electricity bill,。
everything was paid and I got a stipend on top of it.。
Wow!。
So I was sitting there in my room and recounting what God did.。
Tears started filling my eyes.。
And I said, "Lord, you are so good.。
You are so faithful."。
And I started worshipping him.。
Because he showed me, he revealed to me his goodness again.。
And God doesn't just work in the past, but he always does fresh and new things in our。
lives.。
And there is always new reasons to praise God.。
But we'll get to that in a little bit.。
So if you have the desire to renew and strengthen your worship, one of the things you can do。
is actually look back on your life.。
You know, what has God done?。
And take time, maybe map out your spiritual journey and just allow God to speak.。
You ask God to reveal himself to you.。
Like in a prayer, "God, reveal yourself to me.。
Show me how you work.。
I'm not seeing you right now.。
I'm not feeling you right now.。
You know, show, reveal yourself to me."。
And then as God does that, you know, he moves us to worshipping and praising him.。
Because we can see his goodness.。
We can see who he is.。
That's incredible.。
Now let's go to the part where there's a call.。
So I said there's a call to worship and then there's a reason.。
So let's go back to verse 1 through 3, where it says, "Sing to the Lord."。
It says that three times, "Sing to the Lord, sing to the Lord, sing to the Lord."。
Three times.。
Like, what's up with that?。
Now singing, if you think about singing, it's actually something quite vulnerable.。
I'd be a little bit scared if I needed to start singing here right now.。
I might do it.。
No, I'm just kidding.。
Everybody gets scared.。
It depends on the song.。
There might be a song I'm comfortable singing.。
But if you think about it, when we sing, we're really expressing things from our hearts.。
And the classical thing would be the love song.。
A boy or girl wants to express their love for their beloved.。
And maybe they write a song and then at night, in the whole big building complex, they're。
downstairs with an amp and they're playing the guitar and start singing to their love。
and everybody's annoyed except for the person he's singing to or she is singing to.。
And there's something about words and music that somehow express things differently than。
if it's just words.。
And I find it interesting that God desires his people to sing.。
Not every religion has really singing as a focal point in their practices and their spirituality.。
And on one occasion, I wrote a song, the only song I've ever written, and it was a song。
for my father.。
My father in 2006 was diagnosed with cancer.。
And Christmas was coming up and we knew that this would probably be his last Christmas。
unless God does a miracle.。
Now, Christmas was always special and we all, as a whole family, got together.。
We were living all over the world as a family.。
And so I worked with a youth.。
I was in Germany at the time working in a youth group.。
One of my youth, he was a rapper.。
He actually had a contract with a label.。
So he helped me build a beat on Fruity Loops, whatever that is.。
And so it's an R&B song.。
And so I wrote some lyrics to express to my father what he meant to me.。
Now the lyrics are not particularly good, but they were the right lyrics for that moment.。
So I want to share some with you.。
Okay I'll sing the chorus, but I will not sing the other part.。
So it says, "The first memory of you and me playing.。
It was me behind the door daily waiting.。
I wanted to scare you every time when you came home.。
Never feeling alone.。
I feel safe and secure knowing you love me whatever I do.。
You made me into the man that I am today.。
You told me all about Jesus the Lord and Savior that changed my life and taught me the right。
behavior.。
You gave me so much more, more than I needed.。
Now it's time for me to give it back.。
Hope you feel it."。
And then, I don't know if I can sing it now.。
Thank you, thank you dad for being.。
You were not perfect, but the perfect one for me.。
Thank you always believing, always seeing the good side of me.。
Thank you.。
And so it goes on.。
Now I was not going to do that.。
You guys made me do it.。
How dare you?。
But you know, as we were sitting there and I was singing the recording, I played the。
CD, my whole family was tearing up.。
Because the words plus the music, they just gave expression.。
I was able to narrate back to my father who he was.。
He was the one who pretended like he's scared every time he walks through the door because。
I scared him as a little kid.。
He was the one who made me feel safe and secure that I knew it didn't matter what I did, he。
loved me.。
He was the one who told me about Jesus.。
So I'm just telling him and expressing my thanks.。
You know, in this instance, just words would have not done it.。
It needed a song.。
But now when we think of God, how much more has God done in our lives?。
And through song, we can also narrate back to God who he is.。
And we can bring expression with our whole being, not just our intellect, but with our。
emotions and feelings and all of that, we can express our worship, our praise, our gratitude。
to God.。
So our singing to the Lord offers us a way to give expression to our feelings, emotions,。
and mood where we can say to God what we cannot simply say through words alone.。
So the psalmist calls us to sing to the Lord, you know, to come before him with all that。
we have and to give him praise.。
And in some way, it's also the giving of all of ourselves, you know, because we're not。
just giving him our intellect, but we're giving him everything, all of us, you know, in our。
worship and praise.。
So God calls us to sing, and that's why we sing.。
That's why we sing on Sundays.。
And we express with our emotions and feelings, you know, to God how much we love him and。
who he is.。
But there's a second part I want to get to.。
What do we sing about?。
You know, what's the content?。
Actually verse two and three also give us a little detail on that.。
So in verse two, it says, "Sing to the Lord, praise his name, proclaim his salvation day。
after day, declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous deed among all peoples."。
So to praise the name means to enhance someone's reputation.。
It's like if I say, "June, she's incredible.。
Do you know what an amazing teacher she is in K4C?"。
Like, wow.。
And if I would say that and she's not a teacher or she's not a good teacher, then it wouldn't。
be really meaningful.。
But because she really is a good teacher, you know, so my praise has meaning.。
It has substance.。
It means something.。
And so when we praise the name of God, when we praise his name, we're enhancing his reputation.。
We're saying how incredible, how amazing God is.。
And there's two ways here that we do it.。
First, we proclaim his salvation day after day.。
So we tell of him.。
For Israel, this would have meant to talk about the Exodus, the first one and also the。
second one, and his amazing saving work and the history of the people of God.。
You know, for us, of course, it has to do with Jesus.。
We're talking about Jesus and what he has done and how he has saved us, how he has forgiven。
us, how he's given us a new life, how he's transforming us, how he's working things out。
for the good and leads us into purposes.。
And we're just, you know, proclaiming that.。
It's his saving work as we're singing.。
And again, it's based on real things, you know, and we're enhancing his reputation.。
And then secondly, it says, it talks about declaring God's glory.。
Now, what in the world does that mean?。
So to declare God's glory means to speak of wonders, his work as creator.。
It means to speak of God as king.。
He is sovereign.。
He is ruler.。
Of course, God is savior.。
Now what's interesting that the Hebrew word for glory that's used here, "kabod," is related。
to glorify, to verb, "kavad," which really means to be heavy.。
Actually, it's also used to talk about being fat.。
Interesting, right?。
You're like, "Glory and being fat?。
Like how does that fit together?"。
Well, what it's about is about that the one we're giving glory to because he has weight.。
He's weighty.。
He has importance.。
He doesn't lack substance.。
He's not easily just blown away.。
And so this is part of the concept of glory.。
So to declare God's glory means to declare God's substance, his weightiness, his significance。
among all people because he is the only one, you know, who has this glory to this level.。
He's the most weighty, the most important, the most worthy God.。
And so in our singing, we proclaim and we declare God's glory because he has substance.。
He has, as I was sharing with this example with June, he is the creator.。
He is the savior.。
He has the power to do that.。
Nobody else can do that.。
There's nobody else who deserves this kind of praise or glory.。
So we praise God in this way.。
We declare him glory.。
Now, the psalmist also says, "Sing to the Lord a new song."。
Now what's with this new song?。
What does that all, you know, what does that mean?。
Well, there's a need for a new song because God has done something new.。
And so that's why we need to sing a new song.。
We need to bring God praise.。
Again, that's that revelation.。
God has done something new.。
And then now we praise him.。
And again, the appropriate response is to even write a new song, to give him praise,。
to sing it out to him.。
And it's, you know, it's amazing because a lot of times when these new songs arrive,。
it's actually in a season when stuff has been very difficult and heavy.。
That we needed deliverance, that we needed his help, that we needed his mercy, that we。
needed his grace, that we needed him to act in our lives, you know, so that something。
changes.。
And then he does.。
And then there's a reason to sing him a new song.。
So we worship God with the new songs because God always, is always doing new and good things。
in our lives.。
He's always doing new and good things in our lives.。
So one of the practices that I do is once a week, sometimes every two weeks or so, I。
do try to write down how God has been good.。
And one time I read a challenge that was like, don't just write like five things or 10 things,。
because that's, you know, you'll write the same things.。
Thanks God that I'm breathing.。
You know, thank God that I'm...。
Write down 30.。
You know, 30 ways of how God has been good to you in this past week.。
And it's incredible when I do that, there's so many things that I forgot about or didn't。
notice.。
You know, and again, it's a way to renew our worship of him, to strengthen our worship。
because we see that he does new things every day.。
And there's a couple of verses I want to share with you from Limitations 22 and 23, and it。
says this.。
"The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases.。
His mercies never come to an end.。
They are new every morning.。
Great is your faithfulness."。
New mercies every morning.。
Every day God is doing something and showing us, is being good to us in new and fresh ways.。
We always have reason for new praise, for new worship, because God is good every day,。
doing new things, showing you his love, guiding you, showing you his care, providing for you,。
whatever it may be.。
And so he deserves our praise.。
Now let me highlight to you a theme that actually runs through most of the song.。
In verse 3, it says, "Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous deeds among all。
peoples."。
So our praise is not just meant to be sung here on a Sunday morning, but it's actually。
meant to be sung among all the nations, among all peoples.。
We're supposed to proclaim of his salvation, you know, declare his glory and his goodness.。
And I was like, "How do you do that?。
You know, what does that look like?"。
It's like, do you, like when you're at work, do you like start singing?。
Like, you know, in the middle of the meeting, you stand up and like, what does it look like?。
Of course we can talk about that, but the Olympics actually gave me an example.。
So I want to share with you a photo of Yemisi.。
So this is a German gold medalist in the shot put.。
And it was really surprising.。
Nobody was expecting it.。
And she ended up winning.。
So in one of her interviews in English, she actually praised God through song.。
And she's a gospel singer, so it was good.。
And then on German television, they asked her if she can sing more because they liked。
it.。
And so she got the whole like technical crew like clapping, and she was praising God and。
proclaiming his goodness.。
You know, in German, on the public TV station, it has the rights for the Olympics.。
You know, amazing.。
And then now it's making its rounds on social media.。
So she is proclaiming, you know, salvation and declaring God's glory among the nations,。
among all people.。
Amazing, incredible, and so sympathetic.。
You know, such a, you should look her up and then watch some of these, it's awesome.。
Now when we do that, it's actually meant to raise questions in other people's lives.。
What am I worshipping?。
Why is this person singing like this and talking about this stuff?。
Should I think about this?。
Do I need to consider that?。
And so then in verse four and five, it goes on, it says, "For great is the Lord, and most。
worthy of praise.。
He is to be feared above all gods, for all gods of the nations are idols, but the Lord。
made the heavens."。
So Israel singing proclaims the greatness, the power of God, his salvation, his ability。
to rescue, to change lives.。
And they're singing it not just when they gather, but they're singing it so that it's。
overheard.。
Our worship needs to overflow so that other people hear it.。
And then it's meant to make people think about what they worship.。
And here it talks about the idols, and that the idols are, what does it say?。
For all the gods of the nations are idols, but the Lord made the heavens.。
These other so-called gods and things that we're worshipping, they don't measure up.。
They're not worth our worship and our praise.。
They're not worth dedicating our lives to.。
Now for us, today, of course, that can also mean literally idols, but it can also mean。
like worshipping success, or worshipping pleasure, or whatever it is.。
And it doesn't measure up compared to God.。
And so our worship is meant to raise this question among other people, what am I worshipping,。
and is it really worth it?。
And of course, it's also an invitation for the nations and for all God's people to worship。
God and to experience him, to know him, that he's the one that's powerful, and he's the。
one that can change our circumstances, who can transform our lives.。
And so there's actually this call to worship to the nations is in the next part, verse。
7 through 10.。
"Ascribe to the Lord all your families and nations.。
Ascribe to the Lord glory and strength.。
Ascribe to the Lord the glory due to his name.。
Bring an offering and come into his courts.。
Worship the Lord in the splendor of his holiness.。
Tremble before him, all the earth.。
Say among the nations, 'The Lord reigns.'"。
So this call to the nations to give to the Lord, or ascribe to the Lord and worship for。
him, actually would have been shocking to Israel.。
Because if you think about it, they just came out of captivity.。
And now God is inviting all the people to come and worship, to come into the temple.。
That's what this picture, what the psalm is picturing.。
It's inviting foreigners to come into the temple and to worship like Israel worships.。
And the reason for that is God's heart for all people.。
Because he desires for all to know him, to experience his goodness and to worship him.。
And so we worship God because God's heart is for all peoples, from all nations to worship。
him and to experience his salvation and goodness in their lives.。
And that should also actually move us to worship and renew and strengthen our worship.。
God wants to touch other people's lives.。
He wants to bring other people in to worship him.。
He doesn't want the worship just to be contained here.。
He wants it to flow over into Yuen Long and into the city of Hong Kong and beyond.。
Because he wants other people to know him, to know his goodness and to worship and to。
praise him.。
And so God can reveal us his heart and that can lead us to praise him.。
God is not just a God for some people, he's God for all people.。
And that leads us into praising and worshiping him.。
And then the final reason that I want to look at with you for praising and worshiping God。
and how we can also renew our worship is given in verse 13.。
It says this, "Let all creation rejoice before the Lord, for he comes, he comes to judge。
the earth.。
He will judge the world in righteousness and the peoples in his faithfulness."。
Now, the thing about God is that he has come in history over and over again to meet his。
people, to deliver them, to provide for them.。
And of course, he has come through Jesus, which the psalm is also looking ahead to,。
to inaugurate the kingdom of God, to bring his salvation, his redemption to people.。
But from the New Testament, we also know that Jesus is coming again to judge and to rule。
the earth.。
And it's interesting because that's a reason for rejoicing.。
Like usually, when we think of judgment, we don't think of it as something good.。
But I think with God is he's a righteous judge.。
He judges fairly.。
He judges correctly.。
And for those of us who know God, we can stand in Jesus' righteousness before him.。
And we can stand and we can enjoy his new creation where he makes all things whole,。
where he sets all things right, where he brings about complete justice, where his work of。
redemption is completed.。
And so that's another reason why we worship God.。
We look ahead into the future, praise Jesus because he comes again to set everything right。
and to treat everyone fair.。
Because that's the God that we serve, who has the power to do it, to complete his work。
that he's begun, to wipe away every tear, to bring complete wholeness where there has。
been brokenness in our lives and this world has been destroyed and impacted by sin.。
So I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
And I actually want to invite right now all of us to take some time to prayerfully reflect.。
Because at the beginning I asked the question, how can we renew, strengthen, deepen our worship。
of God?。
And I asked, where are you on this journey?。
What is your worship looking like?。
And so I just want to give this time right now to connect with God, for him to reveal。
himself to you, to speak to you about who he is, what he has done.。
And I want to especially encourage also those of us who maybe it's been right now tough。
and you're struggling, because we serve a God who comes again and again and again to。
meet his people, to powerfully work in their lives, to bring hope that change circumstances,。
to bring healing, to give strength and grace for whatever it is that we're facing.。
And so we worship a God who is always working, whose mercies in our lives are new every morning.。
So just want to open up this time to just talk with God, pray, and then in a little。
while all pray for us and then we'll sing to the Lord.。
