It is a church that has at the heart of its DNA。
the grand narrative of the redemptive story of Jesus Christ。
and that celebrates in the freedom and grace that such a story brings.。
This church is not constricted by the walls of a building。
but actively engaged in the community it is planted in。
desiring for God's kingdom to take root and bear fruit in local soil.。
A church that sees salvation as holistic。
transforming God's people for God's work。
and equipping a generation to represent God's heart。
to the poor, the weak, the oppressed and the persecuted.。
Imagine this church committed to seeing the family as integral。
to all that it is called to be and do。
involving intentional, committed and authentic relationships across all levels.。
It is the sort of place where both the young and the old feel cared for。
supported and equipped.。
A church where people of all backgrounds and traditions。
come to feel at home.。
A cultural mosaic that honors and embraces a richness in diversity。
that marks us as the body of Christ.。
It is a church that is willing to innovate and express faith creatively。
reflecting the boundless limits of God's creativity as glory to Him.。
A place where people gather, hungry for the presence of God。
and passionate to see this invade all aspects of their lives.。
Where they seek to develop an intelligent, spiritual faith。
rooted in God's word and driven with prayer.。
A church that does not make its Sunday services。
the exclamation mark of its existence。
but instead the comma in its ongoing sentence.。
A time of service, love and engagement。
that inspires and emboldens all equally for the conversation that lies ahead.。
A church that cares, disciples, rebuilds, renews.。
This is our city.。
This is our church.。
This is our home.。
Good morning and welcome to the Weinian Long.。
It is so good to see you.。
I hope you all had a wonderful, lovely Christmas break.。
I see some people coming back from having been overseas.。
It's good to have you.。
Hey, I don't know what year 2023 has been like.。
Maybe it's been challenging.。
Maybe it's been like a normal year.。
Maybe it's been an incredible year.。
But the one thing that we know is that God has been with us.。
He has been good every step of the way.。
And we always have reason to praise Him, to give Him thanks.。
So I thought at the end of 2023 here,。
let us take a moment and think about one thing that you are grateful for.。
Okay, everybody think of one thing you are grateful for.。
I'm going to make you do something with it, so you do have to think of one.。
All right.。
And now turn to someone around you and share the thing that you are grateful for.。
And just give God praise for what He has done.。
Let's do that right now.。
Oh, amen.。
[Music]。
So praise God for His goodness.。
A lot of times we get to know His goodness, especially in difficult seasons.。
But I want to invite everyone right now to stand as we enter in a time of worship.。
And I will pray for us.。
Let's pray.。
Heavenly Father, we thank You so much for Your goodness, Your faithfulness,。
Your provision that You have been with us every step of the way.。
You are so good, and we can know Your goodness regardless of our outward circumstances.。
Thank You that You are the one who brings us through, who lifts us up,。
who carries us, and who just blesses us over and over again.。
And right now, we want to lift up our praise and give You thanks for who You've been。
and just tell You how amazing You are.。
So I pray this in Your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Let's worship.。
All my words fall short。
I've got nothing new。
How could I express。
All my gratitude。
I could sing these songs。
As I often do。
But every song must end。
And You never do。
So I throw up my hands。
Praise You again and again。
'Cause all that I have is a hallelujah。
Hallelujah。
And I know it's not much。
But I've nothing else fit for a king。
Except for a heart singing。
Hallelujah。
Hallelujah。
I've got one response。
I've got just one move。
With my arms stretched wide。
I will worship You, yeah。
So I throw up my hands。
Praise You again and again。
'Cause all that I have is a hallelujah。
Hallelujah。
And I know it's not much。
But I've nothing else fit for a king。
Except for a heart singing。
Hallelujah。
Hallelujah。
Amen.。
I just really was so encouraged by Pastor Tim just making us,。
not making us, but like, just encouraging us to think of one thing that we are thankful for.。
And as I was just preparing for this worship set this week,。
I just really want to encourage you all to just have that heart of gratitude.。
God has done many, many great things this year.。
No matter if you thought it was good or bad,。
it was the Lord's will, and He will be faithful to carry you through it.。
So God, I just pray now that as we sing the following words,。
that we have that heart of gratitude.。
That we have that heart, that expecting heart,。
that you're going to do something amazing in 2024.。
Let's sing this out.。
Come on my soul。
Don't you get shy on me。
Lift up your soul。
You've got a lion inside of those lungs。
Get up and praise the Lord。
Come on, speak it to your soul。
Come on my soul。
Don't you get shy on me。
Lift up your soul。
You've got a lion inside of those lungs。
Get up and praise the Lord。
Sing it again. Come on my soul.。
Come on my soul。
Don't you get shy on me。
Lift up your soul。
You've got a lion inside of those lungs。
Get up and praise the Lord。
One last time. Come on my soul.。
Come on my soul。
Don't you get shy on me。
Lift up your soul。
You've got a lion inside of those lungs。
Get up and praise the Lord。
Praise you Jesus。
So I throw up my hands。
Praise you again and again。
'Cause all that I have is a Hallelujah。
Hallelujah。
And I know it's not much。
But I've nothing else fit for a king。
Except for a heart singing。
Hallelujah。
Hallelujah。
Whoa, whoa, whoa。
So I throw up my hands。
Praise you again and again。
Yes we do。
'Cause all that I have is a Hallelujah。
Hallelujah。
And I know it's not much。
But I've nothing else fit for a king。
Except for a heart singing。
Hallelujah。
Hallelujah。
piano plays softly。
Grander earth has quaked before。
Moved by the sound of His voice。
And seas that are shaken and stirred。
Can be calmed and broken from my regard。
Let's sing that again, Grander Earth.。
And Grander Earth has quaked before。
Moved by the sound of His voice。
And seas that are shaken and stirred。
Can be calmed and broken from my regard。
Through it all, through it all, through it all。
My eyes are on you。
Through it all, through it all, it is well。
Through it all, through it all, my eyes are on you。
And it is well with me。
piano plays softly。
Far be it, far be it for me to not believe。
Even when my eyes can't see。
And this mountain that's in front of me。
Will be thrown into the midst of the sea。
Amen。
And through it all, through it all, my eyes are on you。
Through it all, through it all, it is well。
Through it all, through it all, my eyes are on you。
It is well, it is well。
Let go, let go my soul and trust in Him。
The waves and wind still know His name。
Let go my soul and trust in Him。
The waves and wind still know His name。
Come on, sing it to your spirit。
Let go my soul and trust in Him。
The waves and wind still know His name。
The waves and wind still know His name。
It is well, it is well。
And with my soul。
In every circumstance, it is well, Jesus。
It is well, yes it is。
With my soul。
It is well, it is well。
Sing it out。
With my soul。
It is well, it is well。
With my soul。
Sing that again, it is well。
And it is well。
With my soul。
And it is well, it is well。
With my soul。
It is well, it is well。
With my soul。
One last time。
It is well, it is well。
With my soul。
Sing through it all。
Through it all, through it all。
My hands are on You。
Through it all, through it all。
It is well, Lord。
Through it all, through it all。
My eyes are on You。
It is well with me。
As we were singing, I was thinking, this is our declaration.。
Regardless of what's going on, regardless of what you're going through, regardless of what 2024 holds for us,。
it is well with our soul because Jesus is our Lord.。
So we're declaring this. We're declaring this to be true.。
So I want to invite you right now, we're going to sing this again,。
and we're going to declare this over our lives, over each other, and over 2024.。
Let's sing this. Let's declare this.。
Let's sing "Let Go."。
So let go my soul and trust in Him。
The waves and wind still know His name。
Let go my soul and trust in Him。
The waves and wind still know His name。
The waves and wind。
The waves and wind still know His name。
It is well, and it is well。
With my soul, yes it is, Lord。
And it is well, Lord。
With my soul。
It is well, it is well。
With my soul。
One last time.。
It is well, it is well。
With my soul。
Through it all, through it all。
My eyes are on You。
Through it all, through it all。
It is well。
Through it all, through it all。
My eyes are on You, Jesus。
It is well with me。
It is well with me。
It is well with me。
It is well with me。
It is well with me。
So one of our congregation members has a prophetic word that she would like to share with us.。
So let's welcome Falaki.。
As we were worshipping the Lord Minister to me that there are people here and some of you,。
you are trying to rise up from something and each time there is a weight that pulls you down.。
And there is something that just pulls you down.。
And each time you try and try, the Lord is saying it's not by power nor by might.。
And He's saying today, Isaiah 60, "Arise and shine for your light has come and the glory of God has risen upon you."。
So that is the word that I received. Thank you.。
Thank you.。
(Applause)。
Sing, "The Lord."。
The Lord bless you and keep you.。
Make His face shine upon you.。
Be gracious to you.。
Lord, turn His face toward you and give you peace.。
Sing that again, "The Lord bless you."。
The Lord bless you and keep you.。
Make His face shine upon you.。
Be gracious to you.。
Lord, turn His face toward you and give you peace.。
And with one voice we all sing, "Amen."。
Amen. Amen. We sing, "Amen."。
Amen. Amen. Amen.。
The Lord.。
The Lord bless you and keep you.。
Make His face shine upon you.。
Be gracious to you.。
Lord, turn His face toward you and give you peace.。
Sing, "Amen."。
Amen. Amen. Amen. We sing, "Amen."。
Amen. Amen. Amen.。
The Lord bless you and keep you.。
Make His face shine upon you.。
Be gracious to you.。
Lord, turn His face toward you and give you peace.。
And with one voice we all sing, "Amen."。
Amen. Amen. Amen.。
The Lord bless you and keep you.。
Make His face shine upon you.。
Be gracious to you.。
Lord, turn His face toward you and give you peace.。
And with one voice we all sing, "Amen."。
Amen. Amen. Amen.。
He is for you. He is for you. He is for you.。
He is for you. Yeah.。
We sing, "Amen."。
And amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen.。
Sing one last time, "Amen."。
Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen.。
Jesus, we thank you that you are for us.。
You are not against us.。
Thank you that you cause us to rise and not to fall.。
Thank you that you are the one who picks us up where we are stuck,。
where we keep falling, and you bring us to the stand firm.。
Your word says that you pick us on the mirey clay,。
that you set us on the solid rock, Lord.。
And so we declare this.。
We thank you for this, that this is your work.。
We thank you in your people's lives, the ones you love,。
and you are for.。
You are for us, not against us.。
And I pray that you would raise our faith,。
that you would encourage us,。
that you would raise our hope as a congregation, as a community,。
that what we would know this truth, that we would believe it,。
that we would not forget this, that we would speak this to each other.。
We pray all this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen, amen.。
Wow.。
Thank you, worship team, for leading us so beautifully.。
You may be seated.。
Thank you for the prophetic word.。
You know, this is something that we, as a Vine church,。
that's always been important to us, that we're open to the Holy Spirit,。
how the Spirit leads what he says,。
and how he wants to encourage people.。
And I was encouraged, and I believe others were as well,。
and that this word was for some that forlucky shared.。
Right now, I want to say hello to those of you here for the first time.。
If you don't mind slipping up your hand, just give us a little wave.。
We're just going to say hi, don't worry.。
Welcome.。
Thank you so much for being with us.。
Yes, it's great to have you.。
There's a QR code up here.。
If you want us to help you get connected, you can fill this out.。
Later on on the screens, we turn them off during the service,。
but there's also a WhatsApp communication channel.。
If you subscribe to that channel, you get -- whenever something's happening,。
we text it out so you know what's going on so you can go there after the service.。
Right now, we want to pray for our children.。
Kids, it's always so good to have you with us as part of our church,。
part of our worship, and we want to pray for them right now.。
So if you want to stretch out your hand, and let's pray over them.。
Jesus, we thank you so much for our children, for every single child that is here,。
that you love them.。
We pray that they know that you love them and that here it's a safe environment。
to encounter you, to grow their own personal relationship with you,。
and we pray that you bless them today as they go。
and have a special party today in their K4C class.。
So we pray that you release your joy, and we pray all this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen. Amen.。
All right, parents, you may bring your children, three to five,。
and actually they're all together today, so you can bring them to the library.。
If you have a toddler, and so we have a crash room, the sermon is streamed,。
so you're always welcome to go in there as well.。
The toddler can play if that is something that is helpful to you.。
As parents are bringing the children to K4C, I want to encourage you to talk to someone next to you,。
maybe somebody you haven't met, just say hello, and then in a minute I'll bring us back.。
So say hi to someone. Let's do that.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
All right, time to bring it back.。
Always love seeing you connect as part of being a community.。
Good to see each other. Good to meet new people.。
Hey, we have a very important January, and I actually wanted to share two things.。
First, we have our annual fast as the Vine Church in Wan Chai, but also here in Yuen Long.。
So one of our practices every year at the beginning of the year, we fast together as a church.。
And you might wonder, well, what's that about? Not everyone comes from, you know, maybe you've never been to church.。
You don't know, like, what in the world is fasting.。
Maybe you've even been in church. You've never done it.。
So I want to say a little bit about that.。
Fasting, we fast to draw near to God and to come into his presence and to ask for him, you know, to move powerfully.。
And it's also a way of expressing our dependence on God, you know, that he is the one who provides our food.。
He is the one who provides spiritual direction and guidance.。
He is the one that can bring breakthrough in areas where we're stuck.。
And so we set aside, we abstain from something when we fast.。
So usually in the Bible, it's food.。
And the Bible is, you know, full food fast, 21 days.。
That would be rough.。
If you've never done it, I don't recommend that to start off with.。
But a lot of people do the Daniel fast.。
So they fast, they only eat vegetables, not meat, only drink water.。
So that's one thing that a lot of people do.。
Another thing that people abstain from, so some people skip a meal, maybe you skip lunch or something.。
Others do social media, Netflix, other things.。
I've done social media is hard, but I think it kind of shows you how addicted you are to it.。
I did that one time and my hand kept like going to my phone.。
It was like automatic, you know, and so it took me a while to stop doing that.。
But it's not just about abstaining fasting because we actually want to carve our time to seek God in prayer and to spend time with God.。
So what I want to encourage you, so our fasting is from January 8th to January 28th, 21 days.。
I want to encourage you to ask God, how do you want me to fast and what do you want me to fast about?。
You know, is there something in your life, you know, where maybe it's about your job, you know, you don't know what to do.。
Maybe it's about a relationship.。
You need God to meet you.。
I want to ask the Holy Spirit to reveal to you what to fast about.。
And then we'll do that.。
And then at church, we're also going to be fasting for 2024 because our focus will be on loving Yuen Long in Hong Kong and really moving out of this building.。
But we, as Phalake was sharing, not by might, not by power, but by the Spirit of God, by his leading, by his empowerment.。
And so we're going to fast and ask God to speak to us and empower us and lead us as we go and do this in 2024.。
Does that sound good?。
Are you guys excited?。
Come on.。
Come on.。
Okay. Are you guys excited?。
Yes.。
You are amazing.。
So I'm excited.。
So then on January the 16th, we're just connected to our fasting.。
We have a prayer meeting.。
It's Tuesday nights, 8 to 9.30 p.m.。
If you're able to come, this will be crucial for us.。
I want to encourage you, if you can come, to come on that Tuesday evening, the 16th, 8 to 9.30, put it in your calendar.。
And we're going to seek God together.。
We're going to pray.。
We're going to share what God's been revealing and speaking to us through fasting.。
So mark that in the calendar.。
So we keep it quite simple in January.。
But we want to dedicate this month to God and seek him as we launch into the year.。
Now, right now we're going to transition in a time of continuing with our worship through offering.。
So right now, welcome to you.。
I want to invite you to pass around the buckets.。
So God has been so generous to us.。
Everything we have is from him.。
And so part of as a follower of Jesus is that we give generously to his work, to his mission, and it honors God.。
And there's also something about when we are generous with our finances, it kind of breaks the power of money being an idol in our lives.。
Because let's be honest, a lot of times money has a grip on our lives.。
And this is also a way that God teaches us to be generous, to love others.。
And so your giving helps us to carry out this mission, will help us in 2024 to love you long, and the city, and to serve them in practical ways.。
So thank you so much for faithfully giving.。
And also I want to note, I always forget to say this, on your seats you have envelopes.。
They have all the information, different ways of how you can give, so you can take that home.。
One way to really bless us is if you set up regular giving, because then we know what we're working with.。
So ask God, pray about it, and then whatever he says is always the best.。
But let me pray for us and for our offering.。
Jesus, we thank you that you are so generous to us, that everything we have is from you.。
Literally everything we have is from you.。
And you are so good, you withhold nothing.。
And we now in turn bring these gifts to you as part of our worship.。
And we pray that you use them, that our giving, our offerings, that they honor you, and that you use them to love the people around us, to serve the city in practical ways, to proclaim your good news.。
So we pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen. Amen.。
Right now I have the wonderful privilege of inviting John, Reverend Dr. John Snedecroft.。
So for those of you who don't know John, and I also want to welcome Sandra, because they're a team, they always work in tandem.。
And both of them have been such a blessing to me, to Chris, to Ellie, our daughter.。
They're mentors of ours, and we are so, I'm so blessed by you, really.。
And he's been journeying with us as we've been planting this church, advising behind the scenes, and just being very supportive, and also just enjoying coming here as well.。
So thank you so much, John, for that.。
I want to pray for John, for us to receive what he has, so let's pray.。
Jesus, thank you so much for John, for his heart, for your people, for his heart, for your church, where he just pours out himself over and over for your sake, for your people's sake.。
And I pray today, as he shares what he has prepared, what you have spoken to him, that you would powerfully work through that in our lives, in our hearts, and that it would be something that challenges us and encourages us.。
So I pray for your anointing, your blessing, your strengthening on him right now, and I pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Let's hear it for Tim.。
Tim, I just feel for you that you come across, you're a big man physically, right?。
But this season, God is making you into the big man spiritually.。
So actually, let's not be just pulled off by just looking at him.。
God is doing something inside of him, right?。
Might be the fasting, right?。
But this is your season, and God is making you into a spiritual giant as well as a physical giant.。
Can I have amen to that?。
Yes.。
Well, happy New Year to everyone.。
It's great to be here.。
A new year is a new opportunity.。
Vine Church, Yuen Long, you are about to enter into a new season.。
It will not look like what you've known before.。
God says, "I will do a new thing."。
As someone who's had a relationship with the Vine Church for almost 30 years,。
I am indeed honored and privileged to be asked to say a few words on this special day, New Year's Eve.。
And may I just say right up front, what a wonderful year it's been.。
From those months, those wonderful months preparing at EIS, you'll remember those forever, won't you?。
It's amazing.。
The prayer walks, the social events, the barbecues, the Vision Sunday, generous offering.。
We're here today because on one Sunday this year, people were moved to give enough money to actually finance this church.。
The official launch and this wonderful building.。
Beyond any of our wildest dreams.。
My first words, however, may be misconstrued as me being a bit of a killjoy.。
Almost, as you say, putting a dampener on this joyous occasion.。
But I need to say them nonetheless.。
The church is not a building.。
You're allowed to say amen, by the way.。
Any Pentecostals here? Yeah, good.。
Church is not a building.。
The church is not a building.。
The word that Jesus was quoted as using that we translate as church,。
ecclesia, has nothing to do with a church building.。
But I think this conversation only goes to illustrate the confusion that many of us face。
with church being regarded as a place, as a building we go to, rather than a thing we are.。
But in a sense, it doesn't matter whether we meet in a beautiful crystal cathedral or an old scout hut.。
The church is us, the people of God.。
And I believe that this highly impressive building here at Ho-Shan-Li is a conduit.。
A conduit for us meeting together to thank God.。
To thank God for his faithfulness and goodness at the Vine for almost 30 years.。
And for this amazing past year here at Yuen Long.。
But equally as important is to seek him for his presence in the present.。
And to ask his guidance for the future.。
I believe this is one of possibly the most significant times in church history.。
Give or take a percentage point, around 94% of Hong Kong's population are currently not part of any church.。
Does that make you feel good? It doesn't make me feel good.。
Many in our city, especially the younger generation, have lost hope.。
We're seeing an increase in those suffering with mental health issues.。
And an alarming rise in teenage suicides.。
And in case you haven't noticed, our poor seem to be getting poorer.。
What can we do?。
My friends, mark my words.。
This building is significant.。
But not as an aquarium to keep the fish in.。
But as a launching pad for the lifeboats.。
Can I say that again?。
A launching pad for the lifeboats.。
Down those stairs and out there.。
I see this building as an equipping center.。
Equipping the saints to man the lifeboats to be sent to the lost.。
The lonely.。
Those who've lost hope.。
And I believe there are many fish to be caught right here in Yuen Long.。
I declare today that Yuen Long is a fishing village.。
An ocean full of fish ready to be caught.。
As I prayed this week, I saw a picture.。
I saw it in two halves.。
The first half was about today.。
The people of this church were gathered together.。
And we were like young eaglets in an eagle's nest.。
Safe together.。
Nestling in the mother's arms.。
They were in close community with each other.。
And I think that describes the Vine Yuen Long very, very well.。
You enjoy wonderful community.。
But in the second scene, the eaglets had grown.。
And I saw squadrons of eagles swarming out from Hong San Lee.。
To the people of Yuen Long.。
To the people of Hong Kong.。
And beyond.。
This building is to be that nurture place.。
This building is to be that nurture place.。
Where, oh yes, you enjoy community.。
And please go on enjoying community.。
But where you are also prepared, trained, equipped to be sent to where the church of Hong Kong really is.。
In our offices.。
In our schools.。
And the housing estates of our city.。
And in that respect, I want to share a verse.。
It is the motivating verse for this message.。
It is my prayer.。
It is my dream for this church in 2024.。
And I believe that this verse describes you.。
The people who call Vine Yuen Long their home church.。
It is Psalm 1-3.。
That person, Tim.。
That person, Darius.。
Is like a tree.。
Planted by streams of water.。
Which yields its fruit in season.。
And whose leaf does not wither.。
Whatever they do, prospers.。
Now read my lips for a moment.。
There is no room in this church for spectators.。
Or to be honest, any church, to be honest.。
Christianity is not a spectator sport.。
The Psalmist has already told us this in verse 1.。
Blessed is the one who does not walk in the step with the wicked.。
Or stand in the way that sinners take.。
Or sit in the company of mockers.。
But whose delight is in the law of the Lord.。
And who meditates on his law day and night.。
And can I just back up what Tim said about the fast.。
Fast is not about what you give up.。
Fast is about what you gain.。
Meditate on his word day and night.。
And I will come back to blessing at the end of my talk.。
But this got me thinking.。
Everybody sort of wants a successful life.。
Church is always talking about having successful ministries.。
But what is it?。
The promise of success here is qualified by the context.。
Whatever they do.。
And whatever they do will be determined by living in obedience to the scriptures.。
Whose delight is in the law of the Lord.。
Who meditates on his law day and night.。
That is what will prosper.。
And what I want to do now is move from.。
Churches often talk about doing preaching verse by verse.。
It's very popular in churches.。
I'm going to move to something which I'm going to call word by word preaching.。
And I want to end up with 6 definitions of success.。
This is my prayer for you for 2024.。
And they are all in verse 3.。
And they are all linked to the sense of a tree being planted by streams of water.。
And you will love this.。
They all begin with the letter P.。
Ironically, the world might come up with the same 6 Ps.。
But I want you to see them through the lens of a tree planted by streams of water.。
Through as it were Psalm 1 3 tinted glasses.。
And the first P is this.。
Prominence.。
It says like a tree.。
Trees are prominent.。
To be prominent is to be widely known.。
We are to project outward from the line we started in our faith.。
A tree is a prominent part of nature.。
And I want to say to you it is not wrong to be prominent in the world.。
Billy Graham was friends with 13 US presidents.。
From Harry S. Truman to Donald J. Trump.。
It is time to let our faith be known.。
Can I repeat that?。
It is time to let our faith be known.。
Always move forward.。
We are to be bold like a tree.。
Just like a tree is always growing, so should our faith.。
You know, no one's faith can stand still.。
It either goes forward or backwards.。
The second P is permanence.。
The word is planted here.。
This quality of the Christian life is crucial.。
We need to be permanently planted in God's word.。
We need to be permanent with our faith and not let anything shake us.。
We've been singing about that all morning.。
Not let the things of the world shake us.。
We are to be rooted by the word of God.。
Rooted by the words of God.。
That means if a decision comes up, a problem or a doubt,。
we should always refer to God's word for assurance.。
This permanence gives us security.。
There are just too many Christians out there who float in the wind。
and compromise their faith with the world.。
We are to stand firm with security and permanence.。
Then there is position.。
This is important.。
It says here, planted by streams of water.。
As important as it is to be planted,。
we must make sure we don't plant ourselves outside in a field。
that's going to be chopped down by lumber workers.。
We are to plant ourselves by streams of water.。
Water nourishes and feeds the tree to grow strong and permanent.。
Just like the tree has water,。
we need God's word and God's Holy Spirit to nourish us,。
to feed us, and to counsel us.。
We need God's word, but we need God's Holy Spirit.。
The fourth P is productivity.。
The word here is fruit.。
It will bear fruit.。
When a tree is healthy, drinking water, and firmly planted,。
it doesn't only grow, but it bears fruit.。
If we are reading and meditating on God's word,。
if we are being constantly filled with the Holy Spirit,。
if we are positioning ourselves in the correct area。
and firmly plant ourselves, we too will bear fruit for Jesus.。
By our fruit, people will be able to tell what really matters to us.。
I want to ask you a question.。
What is the fruit of your life?。
Do you have any fruit?。
Is your fruit sour or sweet?。
What type of fruit is your life producing?。
The fifth P is perpetuity.。
It says the leaf does not wither.。
We are to be in a state of being perpetual.。
That is never-ending for eternity.。
Our leaf does not wither.。
When life gets stormy,。
we had a few typhoons this year, haven't we, in Hong Kong?。
T10.。
What happens to you when your life gets stormy?。
We need to look at trials.。
We need to look at the typhoons in life as a test that will only make us stronger.。
We cannot fold to harsh times and bad weather.。
The leaf of God does not wither and we are the leaf.。
My friends, do not give in.。
There will be times in 2024 when every one of us will feel like giving in.。
Do not give in.。
My last P is prosperity.。
It says whatever they do will prosper.。
If we abide in God, everything we do will prosper.。
We may not always see it that way or even ever see it.。
We must choose what we want our ministry on earth to be about.。
Is it to be about us or is it to be about the generations to come?。
We need to leave a legacy for Christ, not our name.。
That's my 2024 challenge to you.。
Who are you leaving a legacy to?。
Who's coming after you?。
Who are you sowing into?。
I want to encourage each one of you to find someone。
that you can actually regularly find time to sow into their lives.。
My 2024 prayer for you is for an intellectually excellent mind.。
One that is informed.。
One that makes important distinctions when a less mature mind fails to do so.。
One that has deeper and deeper insights into issues of importance.。
Be planted by streams of water.。
It's simple.。
Be planted.。
Who are the people you're spending time with?。
Where are you getting fed?。
Be saturated in God's Word and saturated in God's Holy Spirit.。
And you will be blessed.。
Our church will be blessed.。
Most importantly, our city will be blessed.。
What I want to say as I'm moving towards a conclusion is I want to bless you.。
I want to bless you, dear church, for the past, the present, and the future.。
As we come to the end of an eventful period in our history,。
the last word many of us might use to describe this period is "blessing."。
In fact, some other words might come to mind.。
And yet, blessing is an important aspect of our Hong Kong culture.。
We see the character "fook" or "foo" everywhere,。
meaning prosperity, fortune, good luck, happiness.。
It's most popular amongst the young children and the unmarried。
when we get to Lai Si time at Lunar New Year.。
But "fook" or "foo" can also mean "blessing."。
And we as Christians use it in our vocabulary with phrases like "Yei so yuk fuk lei,"。
"God bless you."。
And blessing is also an important aspect of our faith life.。
It's mentioned over 400 times in Scripture.。
In his song "10,000 Reasons," Matt Redmond encourages this, doesn't he?。
"Bless the Lord, O my soul, bless the Lord, O my soul,。
and all that is within me, bless His holy name," from Psalm 103.。
In the New Testament, in Ephesians 1, we read,。
"Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,。
who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places."。
Now that's a lot of blessing.。
But it leads me, very nicely, to highlight three blessings that the Bible mandates.。
I want to take them one at a time.。
The first one is this, we are to bless God.。
As Christians, we surely say, "God blesses us."。
Even in these difficult past few years,。
God's blessings greatly outnumber the trials that came with virus,。
political unrest, and financial instability,。
without belittling or making light of the hardship that many of us have faced.。
But what does it mean that we can bless God?。
If God is perfect, how can we bless Him?。
To bless God simply means to praise Him, or to honor His name.。
The Hebrew word translated "bless" in the Old Testament literally means to kneel,。
indicating the idea of honoring the Lord.。
We do not add anything to Him when we bless Him,。
yet we worship Him as our appropriate response to His greatness and His love for us.。
As we saw earlier in the Psalms, we often find verses that speak of blessing the Lord.。
Another example is found in Psalm 104, verse 1.。
"Bless the Lord, O my soul." There it is again.。
"O Lord my God, You are very great.。
You are clothed with honor and majesty."。
So that's the first thing, we're to bless God.。
And secondly, we are to bless each other.。
We know that we have been so greatly blessed.。
So many of us have been given so much.。
Material goods, adequate incomes, families, friends, jobs, homes.。
Being part of the vine year long is in itself a huge blessing.。
That's just for starters.。
If you are a Christian, then whatever your circumstances,。
you have been given the greatest gifts.。
Faith, hope, and love.。
You have been blessed with the means of grace and hope of glory.。
If you have Christ, you have been given everything that is eternally worthwhile.。
So the big question is why?。
Why have I, why have you been so blessed?。
And the answer to that question is found in Genesis 12, verses 2-3.。
We call it the Abrahamic Covenant.。
This is God's promise to Abraham.。
God said to Abraham, now bear in mind when God said this promise to Abraham,。
Abraham was about 90 years of age, right?。
His wife was barren and he had no kids, right?。
And he said, "I will make you a great nation, and I will bless you,。
and I will make your name great, so that, so that,。
so that you will be a blessing.。
I will bless those who bless you, and the one who curses you I will curse.。
And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed."。
God was saying to Abraham and is saying to us today,。
"I bless you, you bless others."。
Simple.。
"I will bless you, yes, so that, so that you will bless others."。
Can I challenge you today and every day to ask God,。
"Who can I be a blessing to today?"。
A smile.。
Can we try it, by the way?。
Yeah, you can smile, good.。
A smile.。
Do you know what it can mean so much?。
A kind word.。
An act of service.。
Oh, by the way, can some people in Hong Kong start pressing the door open button。
on the lift instead of the door close button?。
That's a blessing.。
Have you noticed, right, the door close button is worn out, right?。
The door open is pristine, right?。
Nothing is on it, yeah.。
Start blessing people by holding the lift for them.。
That's a very simple one, right?。
A compassionate heart will share God's love with those who perhaps may be。
feeling overwhelmed by circumstances.。
So we are to bless God.。
We are to bless God and we are to bless each other.。
And thirdly, we are to bless our city.。
There's almost an amen there.。
Good, I like it.。
Proverbs 11 and 11 says, "Through the blessing of the upright," that's us,。
"Through the blessing of the upright, a city will be exalted."。
Wow, stick this on your fridge.。
Hong Kong is our home.。
Its people are our family.。
If we were to begin each day with a short prayer to bless Hong Kong,。
bless its people, and oh yes, bless the Vine,。
and bless every other church in our city as well at the same time,。
I believe that we would very soon see a change in the。
spiritual atmosphere here.。
Dr. Ed Silvozo, a friend of mine, in his excellent book,。
"Prayer Evangelism, How to Change the Spiritual Climate Over Your Home,。
Neighborhood, and City," lists four steps based on Jesus' instructions to。
the 72 disciples in Luke 10.。
He says this, "Number one, bless them.。
Number two, fellowship with them.。
Number three, take care of their needs.。
And then at the bottom of the pile, proclaim the good news."。
Step one is blessing.。
Dr. Ed describes it as speaking peace to them.。
He says, "Bless, befriend, care, share.。
Bless, befriend, care, share."。
How often do churches do it the other way around?。
We organize programs, courses, activities,。
where we should start by blessing.。
So let's begin today.。
I want to finish by praying a priestly blessing upon you.。
It's called an Aaronic blessing, after Aaron, from the book of Numbers.。
And we sang the song earlier, inspired Carrie Jobe and Cody Cairns to write。
the song "Blessing," that has been sung all around the world in many languages.。
In fact, at the first service, we sang it in Cantonese.。
We're going to sing it again in a few minutes.。
And I invite the band to come back and you to stand, please.。
I want to give you the reference point.。
It comes from Numbers 6, 24 to 26.。
It says, "The Lord bless you and keep you.。
The Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you.。
The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace."。
You might remember at the beginning of the sermon, I started a little bit。
controversially by talking about the church building.。
And I'm going to finish on a similar controversial vein.。
I love this song, but whenever I hear it sung in church, we always sing it wrong.。
I see congregation members with their eyes closed, maybe their arms raised,。
singing to God.。
This is not meant to be sung to God.。
We are meant to be singing this to each other.。
It is not, "Bless the Lord, O my soul."。
We might do that afterwards.。
So what I'm proposing, in line with my three points, all good sermons have。
three points, is this.。
In a moment, we're going to pray a prayer to bless God.。
It's right to do that.。
Then as we sing the verse, "The Lord bless you," "The Lord bless you,"。
I'm going to suggest we just sing it to each other.。
Ivan, "The Lord bless you and keep you."。
We sing it to each other.。
Now this is a little bit strange, you know, particularly those that are。
Englishmen, you know, don't like this sort of thing.。
"The Lord bless you."。
We're going to sing this to each other.。
We're going to rejoice in this as we sing it to each other.。
In 2024, we're going into a new year, and we're singing over each other,。
"Lord bless you and keep you."。
For the second time we sing it, we're going to face the outside world.。
We're going to face Yuen Long.。
For one easy way, we go there.。
I know Yuen Long is that way and that way, but we've got stairs here.。
And we're going to sing out over Yuen Long.。
"Yuen Long, the Lord bless you."。
Yeah, we're going to do it.。
We're going to sing over our beloved city.。
But the time you get to the amens, and there's loads of those,。
anything might be happening.。
But what we're going to do is this.。
We're going to bless God.。
We're going to bless each other.。
And we're going to bless our city.。
Can I hear amen to that?。
That was three of you.。
Let's try it again.。
Can I hear amen?。
Let's pray.。
Now this is the bit you can close your eyes for.。
I'm just telling you.。
You haven't got to look at anyone else.。
Dear God, we bless your holy name today.。
Thank you for your goodness.。
Thank you for your crown of steadfast love and mercy.。
We recognize all that you have done for us as a church。
and for every church in this city.。
And all that you continue to do now and all that you will do in the future.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Bless you.。
Let's get ready to sing to each other.。
Wow.。
Ready, here we go.。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
Sing amen.。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
Sing this over you and love, over Hong Kong.。
Are you ready?。
Lord bless you and keep you.。
Get ready.。
This is important.。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
Okay, sing it over in Cantonese.。
We're going to sing this in Cantonese, right?。
You lead us.。
[music]。
[music]。
And in one voice we sing amen.。
[music]。
Now let's sing over each other and over the city.。
May his favor be upon you to a thousand generations.。
To your children and your children and their children and their children.。
Let's sing it over each other.。
Let's sing it over our city.。
Let's sing it over Hong Kong.。
Let's sing it over China, over Asia, to the end of the earth.。
[music]。
[music]。
Let's sing may his favor.。
[music]。
In the morning.。
In the evening.。
In your coming.。
In your going.。
In your weeping.。
Rejoicing.。
He is for you.。
He is for you.。
He is for you.。
He is for you.。
He is for you.。
He is for you.。
He is for you.。
He is for you.。
Yeah.。
Amen, amen.。
[music]。
This is one I think you all know together.。
We're going to sing this and bring it all together.。
We're going to bless the Lord and everything that's within us.。
Praise his holy name.。
[music]。
We'll get right to it.。
[music]。
Bless the Lord.。
[music]。
This is where you can lift your hands, guys.。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
Keep your hands raised.。
We're going to pray.。
We're going to ask God just to pour out his Holy Spirit on us for 2024.。
We're asking God to fill you with Spirit so you can feel good,。
so you can have tingles down your spine.。
But God needs to fill you with the Holy Spirit for the people out there, for the '94.。
You say to me, "Pastor, I was filled with the Holy Spirit 10 years ago."。
I say, "I'm not interested."。
Are you being filled with the Holy Spirit today?。
Because the people of Hong Kong, the people of Yuen Long, need a church where its people meditate on the Word of the God day and night,。
are steeped in the Word of God, and are filled with his Spirit.。
I'm going to pray a prayer now that's in the Anglican prayer book.。
I've not found anything better.。
Father God, fill us up with your Holy Spirit, and send us out to live and work to your praise and glory.。
Fill us up, Lord, and send us out to live and work for your praise and for your glory.。
Let's just spend a minute just waiting on God, equipping.。
You mentioned that word. This place is an equipping center.。
This place is a launch pad for the lifeboats.。
The fish are out there.。
There's an ocean of fish waiting to be caught.。
Fill us up and send us out. Fill us up, Lord.。
Thank you, Holy Spirit, for filling us.。
But you, Holy Spirit, you are who leads us in this mission.。
You're the only one who empowers us for this mission of being a blessing, of befriending, of caring, and of sharing with those around us.。
So may this not just be words, Lord, but may you in 2024 help us to live this out and put us in action, Lord.。
That's our heart's cry. That's our heart's cry.。
We want to be a church that just talks, one a church that really loves people, one a church that goes out and serves, that blesses,。
that doesn't do it the wrong way around, as we heard today, that does it the right way around at first, blesses, befriends, cares, shares.。
So we pray this in your name, Jesus. Amen. Amen.。
Thank you, John, for a powerful word, for blessing us. Let's give John and Jesus a big hand.。
Jesus and John. Yeah.。
Thank you, worship team, for being flexible, for doing things you didn't know you were going to be doing.。
Right now, we also want to ask Chapman to actually come up, because we're a community, we're family.。
This guy here is family, and he had a birthday yesterday.。
So I want to ask if he could help me sing "Happy Birthday," all right?。
Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, dear Chapman.。
Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, dear Chapman.。
Yes. Well, we love and appreciate you, all that you do. We love having your family here.。
And so what a blessing you are to us. Thank you so much.。
Hey, have an incredible happy new year, knowing that God is with you, regardless, you know, what's going on.。
He is, He will carry us through the storm, and He will also help us carry out this beautiful vision of blessing the people around us.。
Also, since John talked so much about blessing, we have bless magnets as a reminder that we start with blessing.。
So you can pick up a bless magnet, you can put it on your fridge, so you can remember, we want to start with blessing people.。
Also, if you want prayer, you know, maybe this year hasn't been easy.。
Maybe there's something you don't know about 2024, there's something you're going through.。
Maybe you just want somebody to pray over you. Whatever the reason, the prayer team would love to pray with you.。
They're here on your right-hand side, Benedict and Hannah, I believe, and Eva.。
So do take advantage of that. Parents, now is the time to pick up your children.。
We love you. Have a wonderful New Year's Eve. See you all in 2024.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
