In your name we pray, amen.。
Over to you, Sidney.。
- Hey, thank you, Alison.。
Well, thanks for the invitation。
that I got a chance to share something。
which I'm really, really passionate about,。
and that is work.。
I love to work.。
Sorry, it's a Sunday.。
Well, this is July.。
July is always something memorable。
and significant for us in the medical field.。
In our days, most of the medical practitioners。
will start their lifelong career in July 1st,。
and I'm actually one of those。
starting on exactly 1st of July, 37 years ago.。
Well, I was so excited and passionate。
about getting to start to save lives.。
Well, likewise, even fellow classmates。
who may or may not have a faith affiliation,。
but they also had that sense。
that there's a calling into an unknown world。
where we can grow in our profession,。
serve the community,。
and find our purposeful fulfillment in life.。
Along similar vein, I hope and pray。
that most of us would revisit our first entry。
into our work life, the passion, the sweet memories,。
and that should excite you.。
Well, but somehow, July also continued。
to be some of my defining moments.。
10 years into my career life,。
I felt really stuck and began to wonder。
how the rest of my professional life would evolve.。
We made a bold decision.。
We decided to emigrate to a foreign land。
to find a venue to fully develop。
my professional life and skills.。
I'm most grateful to the opportunities that opens up,。
and I was propelled to a higher level。
than I ever aspired or even dreamed.。
Then, July 2003, we finally came out of SARS.。
During those preceding months,。
I was quarantined for two separate occasions.。
We lost dear colleagues and patients.。
So in those stretch of quarantine,。
it was also a time for me to reflect。
upon the very notion of success。
or transforming from success to significance.。
So success in your career life,。
success in the marketplace is one thing,。
but in all of us, there should be a deeper yearning,。
calling into something even greater.。
So that means for me that period,。
I revisited to look at my own calling。
and how I can best serve,。
not only making a difference in the marketplace,。
in my professional sphere,。
but also making a greater impact。
to be fruitful for Christ.。
And I realized that I had a strong desire。
to partner with God to advance his kingdom.。
Now today, we shall refer to the passage in Acts 16,。
recalling Paul's second mission trip。
and how he crossed paths with three individuals。
where their lives were impacted.。
They are Lydia and then a demon possessed girl。
and a prison guard in Philippi,。
which I try to approach from their perspectives。
of how new life in Christ would mean for them.。
It might not be July, 2000 years ago,。
but definitely there was their season of transformation.。
It started with Paul's vision of seeing a man。
crying for help from Macedonia,。
prompting the sail across Asia to Europe.。
That mission to Philippi。
became the first major city in Europe。
to ever hear of God's good news.。
Luke tells the exciting story。
of the birth of the church in Philippi。
by giving account to three incidents。
involving people who come into contact with the gospel.。
The first one was by the name of Lydia.。
She was a prominent and wealthy Gentile businesswoman。
who was already a convert to the Jewish faith,。
and they were gathering in the riverbank。
as a small congregation.。
The second was a low status slave girl。
who's being exploited。
for her spirit-inspired fortune-telling abilities.。
Luke never really tells us。
whether she puts her faith in Christ,。
but the account of Paul's encounter with her。
demonstrates the very power of Jesus。
over the realm of the demonic and the oppression.。
But that the spirit was driven out of this slave girl。
also means that the girl's owner,。
their business, was ruined.。
The story was well known.。
Peter and Silas were beaten and imprisoned.。
But then there was an earthquake in the middle of the night。
as the two of them were praying and singing hymns。
in the dark dungeon.。
The chains broke loose.。
The jailer, worried that the prisoners might have escaped,。
was actually about to commit suicide.。
Yes, the two missionaries intervened,。
and the prison guard was in fact converted,。
finding great joy in knowing the Savior.。
Well, why should I choose to share。
from these three individuals?。
Well, in fact, the very title for today is "Faith at Work."。
Our faith in Jesus should be experienced。
and expressed in our work and workplace,。
even though it is a work in progress.。
Their stories should find and put on real faces of people。
that form a congregation, a community of believers.。
They are ordinary people from the various sectors。
of the work population,。
in the real world of the society in their times.。
As much as any one of you in this congregation,。
who is essentially from the marketplace。
and part of the society.。
So bear with me, I'm actually only guessing。
as best as I can about what really happened。
thereafter for them.。
But I love the story of Lydia。
because she's a businesswoman.。
And in a sense, while I'm also a professional,。
but I also carry a business。
whereby we run a small company。
doing professional services related business.。
I'm really excited about learning from Lydia。
through some imaginations.。
Acts 16 here says, "While we sat down,"。
that means Paul, Silas, and the team,。
"sat down and began to speak to the women。
who had gathered there.。
One of those listening was a woman。
from the city of Tyre-Tetra named Lydia,。
a dealer in purple cloth.。
She was a worshiper of God.。
The Lord opened her heart to respond to Paul's message.。
When she and the members of her household were baptized,。
she invited us to her home.。
'If you consider me a believer in the Lord,。
come and stay at my house,' and she persuaded us.。
In those days, it is not uncommon to find a woman。
undertaking business in Macedonia or in Asia Minor.。
Women had began taking up their significant business。
and civil roles in those societies,。
and evidently, Lydia had moved to Philippi。
and set up a business of selling dyed fabrics。
to Romans in the colony.。
While she is in that sense in fashion industry,。
she is a merchandiser, and she is doing a trader's job.。
Her business was apparently doing fairly well。
if she owned a house large enough to accommodate Paul。
and his team, in addition to all the members。
of her household.。
In the subsequent letter to the Philippians,。
written years down the road while Paul was himself。
imprisoned on another occasion,。
he was most encouraged to receive the generous gifts。
from the Philippians' church to support him in the prison.。
You, the Philippian church, sent me aid more than once。
when I was in need.。
Not that I desire your gifts.。
What I desire is that more can be credited to your account.。
I have received full payment of more than enough.。
I am amply supplied.。
Now that I have received from Epaphroditus。
the gifts you sent, they are a fragrant offering,。
an acceptable sacrifice, pleasing to God.。
Which means whatever the Philippian church is giving,。
it is a fragrant offering ultimately unto God.。
Whatever we give, it will be pleasant and pleasing to God.。
Of course, it's not recorded exactly whether Lydia。
was part of that generous community,。
but we may assume that the businesswoman。
would have contributed.。
I'm truly convicted that while businesswoman。
or businessman or anyone else in this congregation。
should give faithfully to the Lord.。
I myself have the joy of testifying his faithfulness。
in good times and in bad times in the economic sense.。
Well, indeed, even in our own industry,。
we also face many ups and downs,。
and we often have to make painful。
and difficult business decisions,。
just like any one of you in the marketplace。
will need to do day in and day out.。
But in the midst of all this, our faith in him is refined.。
More importantly, the poem is about。
we can all give of ourselves。
in the very marketplace situation we are put into.。
We can all transit from a place of gaining。
to a place of giving.。
Paul was encouraged not only by the presence。
from the Philippians Church,。
but also the very presence of this friend,。
the messenger, a co-worker sent from Philippi.。
From gaining to giving, Epaphroditus was a messenger。
sent from Philippi to Paul.。
We are messengers sent by God,。
and you are the very messenger。
sent to your workplace to encourage someone,。
whether you're a boss, a leader,。
a colleague, or an underling.。
From good to great, we talked about faithful giving,。
generosity, and being a messenger of Christ.。
These are all good things.。
Lydia was generous in hosting Paul and the team。
and brought the gospel into her household.。
But did she move from good to great?。
Well, that is a hypothetical question.。
Now, we know that her industry was lucrative,。
where precious raw materials。
was actually extracted from the seashells to purple dyes.。
Her work transforms garments into royal-class fashion.。
Can many of us in the business world today,。
in partnership with Jesus, transform the world around us?。
Can business, or more broadly speaking,。
the workplace, be a mission field?。
And how does that look like?。
According to Paul Stevens,。
a important figure in promoting marketplace ministry,。
there are a spectrum of possibilities.。
And business can be an arena for individual weaknesses.。
Business can also be a means of church planting,。
a means of society's service, of community building,。
or we can even negotiate and wrestle。
with the powers or the government.。
How to weakness and do a church plant?。
Well, let me share how a dare-to-believe。
business owner has been doing.。
So my friend is running an oncology cancer clinic,。
but he wants to provide chaplaincy care to his patients。
while they are receiving chemotherapy.。
So he funded his own official space for pastoral care。
and engaged pastoral staff to provide。
the much-needed comfort during the very tough times。
that the patients are receiving chemotherapy.。
Jesus is right there in the midst of his business,。
and a small community of people, patients,。
nurses, pastors, doctors, come to form。
a small church congregation in his clinic.。
How about serving the society?。
Another friend runs a beauty and well-being business,。
but they find that their technology is also useful。
to augment the behavior of autistic kids.。
So his company, in partnership with NGOs,。
provide cares for children with such needs。
and become a blessing for many.。
Then another schoolmate, he is in the building industry,。
but he insisted on fair and uncorrupted practices。
despite all the challenges and common practices.。
So while they bid for major metropolitan projects,。
his company is well-recognized,。
even by the various government officials,。
that they are upright in their project bidding.。
So the point is whether we dare to believe。
that there are many and numerous opportunities。
and possibilities, but these would open up。
only if we, as individual believer in the marketplace,。
truly embrace the call from Jesus。
to serve in the marketplace, to make a real difference.。
We are all called to be ministers in the marketplace.。
In case you do not receive this well,。
I want to speak this over you all over again.。
We are all called to be ministers。
in the very marketplace that God has sent you.。
So shepherd your flock well.。
While I did not think of business opportunities。
or kingdom opportunities so much last time,。
rather I would just stick with the flow。
and the commonest pathway that would be predominant。
in our peers would be, well, something like this.。
In your early 20s, you work hard, you try to get ahead,。
you put in long hours, put on extra work,。
try to work faster and smarter。
in order to beat the competition.。
Then towards your 30s, you may expect。
that you reap the rewards of your hard work,。
you get promoted, you receive better pay and better status.。
But then as I closed on to my 40s and then 50s,。
I felt my own battle fatigue.。
I began to realise, well, I couldn't。
and I wouldn't want to live this way forever.。
If life turned out perfectly, what should it look like?。
What elements would that include?。
What would I be doing in five years or in 10 years?。
How about you?。
How would you describe your idea of calling and destiny?。
How would you finally arrive at the point。
where you can say, I am doing。
what I have always dreamed of doing?。
I'm finally doing what I've always dreamed of doing.。
So I want to share this understanding。
or concept of significance, which I define。
as being fruitful in Christ.。
Well, it actually begins by stopping wherever we are。
in this journey to see what's really key in our life.。
And then we reorder everything around it.。
So imagine you have this treasure box.。
So let's see what you put into your treasure box.。
And when you are stripped of everything else,。
what remains in your treasure box?。
So I can probably safely say,。
well, money is not the most important thing。
in my treasure box.。
Well, I gained a fair amount of wisdom。
through the years of hard work and leadership and teaching,。
but probably that may not be the one。
and most important thing in my life.。
So I get that I have a key.。
The one and only thing that I will say,。
while stripped of everything else,。
I still want to be in the box.。
And I dare to share that that one thing,。
if I may put, is God.。
God in the box.。
Well, not that we can put God in the box,。
but we choose God to be the one and only。
when we are stripped of everything else.。
What is that ultimate one and only thing。
that you most treasure in your treasure box?。
As fellow believers, while we put God in the box,。
it also means reordering everything.。
And that decision of putting God in your box。
leads you thereafter.。
Now, it is unfortunate that most people think,。
well, successful Christians in business。
are just rich people who give a lot of money to the church。
and they don't do anything else.。
And whereas for ordinary workers,。
we are just to tithe regularly.。
Significance, fruitfulness in Christ。
would be there for us when we,。
business people or otherwise,。
find a way to give of ourselves to God,。
if God is indeed in the box.。
But this may or may not need a change of your job。
or otherwise, but it always requires a change of attitude,。
a transformed heart, a yearning。
to bear fruits for Christ.。
Well, generally, I actually do not believe。
that God creates us with such talents, abilities,。
or unique temperaments,。
or maybe unique business connections,。
but then asks us to do things entirely different,。
using different skill sets, different connections.。
But rather, many a times, moving towards significance。
does not need a 180 degree course change.。
Instead, we may do some retrofitting。
to find how we can best apply our gifts。
to allow us to spend more time on things。
related to what's in our box,。
and do it in such a way to reclaim that very thrill。
the first business transaction brought us.。
God has a wonderful plan for our life.。
We can serve him by doing what we may like to do,。
and we are good at.。
For my instance, I love to teach,。
even in my very young days.。
So I got to teach even younger kids。
when I was in Sunday schools.。
Then I got to teach medical students。
and post-graduate residents.。
And now, I've got the privilege and opportunity。
to teach or share work with you.。
I also got the privilege to teach。
in Tree of Life discipleship courses,。
including calling and phase of work courses,。
which I really was passionate about.。
And of course, the forthcoming marriage enrichment.。
I'm now excited, or even more excited, to share work。
that my delivering a lecture in a conference hall。
during academic meetings.。
I'm hoping I'm transiting from good to great,。
from success to significance,。
from gaining to giving.。
That was what I told Andrew。
when we shared nine years ago。
about signing up to serve as an elder。
in the Eldership Board.。
And I hope that we, fellow elders,。
have served you well all these years.。
Your finding your significance。
could run a very different path,。
but be open-minded and keep your entrepreneurial spirit.。
Be bold and adventurous.。
The God who gave you much success。
in your business or your workplace。
would lead you into even better next stage of life,。
to fully realize God's given talents,。
to advance his kingdom, and to make a real difference.。
Dare to believe.。
But you may say, "Well, I'm no businessman。
"or businesswoman."。
In fact, you may even be saying,。
"I'm at the lowest end, in the bottom,。
"in the combined chain of my employment or company.。
"What else can I do?"。
Well, let's revisit the story of the slave girl as recorded.。
The Greek implies that she is very young。
and has literally a spirit of the serpent.。
It is a spirit that predicts the future.。
Paul became so annoyed that he turned around。
and said to the spirit, "In the name of Jesus Christ,。
"I command you to come out of her."。
At that moment, the spirit left her.。
But her owners realized that their hope。
of making money was gone.。
They seized Paul and Silas and dragged them。
into the marketplace to face the authorities.。
Marketplace.。
This poor girl was doubly exploited by the spirit。
and by those who owned her.。
But she was set free, as now Jesus holds her future.。
You could feel that you are scrutinized by your boss,。
you are bullied by your colleague,。
and you are frustrated by your underperforming underling.。
Or you may just have that sense of being oppressed。
in the workplace.。
But Christ has set you free.。
Well, I have my honest confession。
that I myself is in my career low lately.。
I felt very oppressed myself.。
But I'm learning from Paul and Silas。
how they chose to pray and sing at their low points。
in the dark dungeon, the prison cell,。
where God responded by shaking the earth。
and all the chains came loose.。
Praying and singing are the natural responses。
of that trust in God who holds our future.。
And for all you know, many others are listening,。
just as other prisoners are listening to Paul and Silas。
as they prayed and sang.。
So dare to believe.。
The spirit of deceit falsified that our future。
is held by someone else other than Jesus.。
May the spirit of falsehood be cast out from you today.。
Christ has set us free, and we are free indeed.。
On the other hand, well, you may wonder,。
now that you are set free,。
you would devote yourself to follow Jesus,。
and in the literal sense,。
and you even consider quitting your job。
to enter into Christian ministry.。
Wow, what noble thoughts.。
You need prayerful deliberation.。
I do want to refer to Jesus' advice,。
the once demon-possessed young man.。
In Mark 5, as Jesus was getting back into the boat,。
the man who was once demon-possessed begged to go with him,。
but Jesus did not let him.。
He said, "Go home to your own people.。
"Tell them how much the Lord has done for you,。
"how much the Lord has done for you,。
"and how he has mercy on you."。
So this man went away and began to tell。
the people in the 10 cities how much Jesus has done for him,。
and all the people were amazed.。
How much Jesus has done for you.。
I would not be able to offer you a simple solution。
if you are struggling in your workplace,。
especially regarding decisions to stay put or to venture out.。
I myself made numerous transitions to depart,。
but I'm glad to share that I saw God's hands。
in each of those career moves,。
and I emerged stronger in each of those transitions.。
But I also strongly believe that regardless。
of the tremendous demand in our workplace,。
there must be purposes that God placed us。
in those situations in the first place.。
He has set us free so that we are liberated。
to work with new strength and a grateful heart.。
You might be doing the most mundane thing in the world,。
but what you are doing could make a difference.。
Let me share my story.。
I need to be admitted on a regular basis。
to one of the university hospitals。
to receive my chemotherapy.。
I confess that sometimes I will be very frustrated。
or even angry because it is typically。
the most junior medical staff,。
usually the fresh interns,。
who perform the routines in the ward that I will be staying.。
So they will make numerous attempts。
to put in the cannula into my vein,。
and if they finally did it, I'm truly blessed.。
They were doing good for me.。
My chemotherapy could start,。
and my disease will be brought under control.。
Their mundane, often unappreciated work,。
and sometimes not even valued by themselves,。
made a literal, lifelong impact on my life.。
We are all doing something that may help someone。
another one's day savor easier or just more pleasant.。
Don't despise the small things that you're doing every day.。
And now let's come to the last character for the day,。
the prison guard.。
This jailer in the story could be a director or a manager,。
as he can command a few other colleagues.。
The interesting paradox here is that the prisoners,。
Paul and Silas, set this supposedly free prison guard。
in the secular sense, really free in the spiritual sense.。
Acts 16, the jailer called for the lights,。
rushed in, and felt trembling before Paul and Silas.。
He then brought them out and asked,。
"Sirs, what must I do to be saved?"。
They replied, "Believe in Lord Jesus,。
"and you will be saved, you and your household."。
Then they spoke the word of the Lord to him。
and all the others in the house.。
At that hour of the night, the jailer took them。
and washed their wounds.。
Then immediately, he and his household were baptized.。
The jailer brought them into his house。
and set a meal before them.。
He was filled with joy because he had come。
to believe in God, he and his whole household.。
This prison guard in the story probably。
have more common grounds with the congregation.。
He's an employee, he has a job title,。
he has certain skill sets, he has a few underlings。
or colleagues, but he also has his boss,。
the magistrate, to report to.。
Now how should he express his newfound faith。
in this rather unpleasant workplace,。
dealing with people who are not the most likable,。
while trapped in the middle as mid-level management?。
How should his faith work out?。
Follow the books?。
Well, he didn't, he didn't just follow the book。
and lock up the prisoners all over again,。
as per the duty manual or job description.。
Instead, he did the extra mile.。
He washed their wounds.。
He also brought them into his house,。
set a meal before them, but most of all,。
he was filled with joy.。
Recall how Paul advised the congregation。
in his letter to the Philippians.。
For it is God who works in you to will and to act。
in order to fulfill his good purpose.。
Do everything without grumbling or arguing,。
so that you may become blameless and pure,。
children of God without fault,。
in a white and crooked generation.。
Then you will shine among them like stars in the sky.。
Indeed, we sometimes find our workplace white and crooked,。
yet we can shine like morning stars in the sky.。
The jailer find great joy as he came to know Jesus。
in the workplace, as he continue to usher in。
Jesus' presence in this workplace.。
Likewise, Henry Nolan find his greatest joy,。
his inner renewal and his self-discovery。
as he served his severely disabled patient。
by the name of Adam through routine,。
long and tiresome days in Daybreak Community Center。
in Toronto.。
And that joy was much more than he experienced。
in his lifetime as an academic professor.。
Somehow, now, he see Jesus embodied in Adam。
and he is serving Jesus.。
Dare to believe that you may find your rightful joy。
in your most challenging workplace,。
be it lowly or highly regarded in the secular sense.。
Jesus will call you good and faithful servant。
if indeed you're good and faithful.。
Dear fellow brothers and sisters,。
I wonder whether July bears any particular significance。
for you.。
It's the mid-year term, you have the remaining half the year。
to fulfill whatever you have set forth。
to fulfill for 2024.。
But even more importantly, whatever you have set forth。
as your calling and destiny you have yet to fulfill.。
Season of the year changes like seasons of our life.。
Just continue to ponder upon how you want to move。
from good to great, from giving,。
from gaining to giving and from success to significance.。
Let your life speak.。
You may be a high-profile businessman, a leader, a CEO,。
or you may feel more like a lowly employee。
receiving only crumbles.。
Or you're like many others caught in the middle,。
having lots to manage but not a great pay or respect.。
Wherever you are, Paul's encouragement remains.。
Let your life speak.。
Do everything readily and cheerfully,。
no bickering, no second-guessing allowed.。
Go out into the world uncorrupted.。
Be a breath of fresh air in this polluted society.。
Provide people with a glimpse of good living。
and of the living God.。
Carry the light-giving message into the night.。
Can I invite all of us to stand?。
The worship team will come up.。
And also invite the prayer team and fellow elders。
who are in the midst to come forth.。
I want to invite all of us to respond.。
By coming forward to receive a prayer,。
we want to pray with you.。
I want to speak to three group of people.。
Business, people, men and women, leaders in your industry.。
I would like to invite you to come forth。
so that we can pray with you to honor your calling。
to become a minister for Christ in the workplace.。
Be the shepherd of your flock.。
For some of us who feel oppressed in the workplace,。
come forth, we want to pray with you。
that you're indeed set free.。
And for all of us here,。
that our yearning to shine for Christ will be stirred.。
That we commit ourselves to be fruitful for Christ。
so that we may move from success。
to significance.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
[MUSIC]。
