We just had this beautiful candles lit,。
they're so nice, and we had the scripture read to us。
that says, "I am the vine,。
"and you are the branches."。
These words just happen to be on our walls,。
and if you're wondering, you know,。
why are we choosing these words, you know,。
to put them on the wall?。
Is it for the purpose of decoration,。
or we needed something to be on the wall。
when we move into the building。
since we don't have any cross, or, you know.。
These are actually the very verse。
that shaped the identity of this church.。
We're a divine church, and if you are wondering,。
the name of the church, Divine,。
actually comes from these verse in John chapter 15.。
Indeed, if you've been around the last couple of weeks,。
we've been going on with this Advent series,。
we've been lighting the candle every week,。
we've been reading part of the scripture。
from the book of John in particular every single week.。
In the book of John, there were in total。
seven of these I am statements。
that Jesus declared while he was walking on the earth,。
and John recorded them, wrote them in his gospel.。
It was quite unique to the writings of his gospel.。
And there's a very important,。
there's a significance to these declaration。
that Jesus made, that John has recorded,。
because all these statements,。
they start with this phrase, I am.。
And that actually ties all the way back。
to the Old Testament, particularly to the book of Exodus.。
When Moses met God in that burning bush,。
sorry, don't burn, okay, yes.。
When God met Moses in that burning bush,。
he was asking God, like, what's your name。
if I have to introduce you,。
if I need to be, you know, your manager,。
I gotta introduce you to those people, what do I say?。
And God gave him like this phrase,。
which in English we translate it as I am who I am,。
or we call him Yahweh, which means he is who he is.。
And so whenever the Israelites,。
they were trying to refer to their God, the creator God,。
they don't even speak of this name,。
but they write of this name Yahweh,。
which means, yeah, I am who I am, or he is who he is.。
So he's the great I am,。
just like the song we sung moments ago.。
When Jesus made these claims, I am the bread of life,。
I am the light of the world, I am a good shepherd,。
he is basically referring to himself as God.。
And so that actually stir up some,。
well, different kinds of emotions or feelings in people.。
To some, of course, they receive it gladly and think,。
yes, this is the son of God that I'm going to follow,。
he is the Messiah, I'm going to follow Jesus like 100%.。
But on the other hand, there are people,。
they were super offended, like, who are you to say that?。
Like, how could you say that?。
How could you claim to be God or the son of God?。
And they were furious.。
So people were pushed to a place。
where they have to make a decision.。
Is he who he says he is?。
And that's actually the same question。
that should be asked every Christmas,。
because Christmas, it's about this news,。
about this announcement that the savior of the world。
has come in a person, God has come in the person of Jesus.。
It forces us to be in a place。
to consider whether what he claimed is true.。
And what we couldn't do it,。
we couldn't just come and say,。
oh yeah, he gave some good advice, Jesus,。
this Jesus guy, he said this, he quote this,。
giving it's even better than receiving.。
He has all these good moral teachings,。
so maybe I could just treat Jesus。
like those self-help books, like chicken soup.。
I can just take a few things from his teachings,。
but maybe he's a good teacher, he has good moral teachings.。
No, Christmas forces you to a place。
where you cannot remain there.。
You have to consider what he says about himself.。
He's either God or he is just a lunatic,。
or maybe he's a liar,。
and you gotta make a decision for yourself.。
Every Christmas, we're brought to this place。
like those people 2,000 years ago.。
We were brought to a place of decision.。
Who is Jesus?。
We have to make a decision for ourselves.。
When we encounter all these I am statements.。
Today we're going to look at another one of them.。
In John 15, just now, it was beautifully read.。
Jesus, he declared, I am the true vine,。
and my father is the gardener.。
This first line in John 15,。
this line alone already,。
it's loaded with rich biblical history,。
and a rich message here.。
You see, in the Old Testament,。
there is a nation that was referred to as the vine,。
and that is Israel, the people of God.。
Or more accurately, the vine had been the symbol。
of Israel for centuries.。
It's kind of like the national emblem.。
And in fact, in the days of Jesus, at the temple,。
there is this great, magnificent, golden grapes。
like hanging as a part of the declaration。
at the entrance of the temple.。
They are so proud of it.。
When they look back, when they think about their identity。
or this biblical symbol as grapes,。
they were so proud because that speaks of God's blessing。
and mission for this group of people.。
We know that the history of Israel。
goes all the way back to this guy named Abraham.。
And God said to Abraham,。
"I'm gonna make you and your family a big nation,。
and I'm going to bless you so that you would be a blessing,。
or you and your family would be a blessing。
to all the nations, all the families,。
all the people on the planet."。
This is somewhat captured in Isaiah 27, verse six.。
It says that, "In days to come, Jacob will take root.。
Israel will bud and blossom。
and fill all the world with fruit."。
The idea of Israel being divine is that it will bear fruit,。
that all the spiritual, all the blessings from God,。
it will become, they will be like vine。
and they will bear fruit like grapes.。
And all these fruits will bless the rest of the world.。
That has always been part of God's plan,。
but we know it didn't go that smoothly.。
We know that this nation, this people,。
they were corrupted by sin and selfishness.。
And so in the Bible, if we continue to read on,。
what we see is that in Isaiah, for example,。
Isaiah chapter five, it's called a song of the vineyard.。
And God described himself as a loving farmer。
who cleared the stones and planted the choices vine,。
and which was figuratively Israel.。
And he looked for the sweet grapes。
of justice and righteousness.。
So when we talk about fruits,。
we're talking about all the great things。
that a nation can experience or all they can do,。
like righteousness, goodness, kindness, and justice,。
all these that would build a harmonious society。
that is just and right,。
and people can live in God's blessing.。
That was God's plan for Israel,。
and through them a blessing to the nations.。
But no, we see that that was not the picture.。
Instead, the vine, you know, instead this vine in the Bible,。
in the Old Testament Israel, it produced wild grapes.。
It's sour, it's stinking.。
And we saw that in the stories of the Bible,。
the people of Israel, they were corrupted.。
And so in Psalm 80, and also in Jeremiah 2,。
we see that what was described as Israel。
was how they would turn to become a wild。
and degenerate a plant of vine.。
They had religion.。
Don't get me wrong, they still have their temple.。
They still have all these religious rituals and ceremonies,。
and they have all these things going on,。
religious activities going on,。
but they do not have fruit in them.。
It's like dead vine, it's wild vine, it's degenerate vine.。
It's nothing near what God has planned in the first place.。
And because this original vine had failed,。
God removed his protection, and the vineyard was trampled.。
Well, which refers to the event of exile。
in the history of Israel.。
That was the backdrop to this verse.。
Oh, sorry, not this verse,。
but to chapter 15 of the Gospel of John.。
When Jesus was saying these words,。
Jesus was, if you're following the passage in John 13,。
he was washing the disciples' feet。
after the last supper in this upper room.。
And then he gave a speech at chapter 14,。
and by the end of chapter 14, Jesus would say,。
hey, come on, let's go.。
And they were headed towards the Mount of Olives.。
And perhaps when they were passing。
through the Mount of Olives,。
biblical scholars, they were, you know, try to guess,。
maybe they walked through, walked past the temple,。
and Jesus saw the temple,。
and those hanging golden, magnificent,。
gigantic grapes on the temple.。
And he said these words, he said,。
I am the true vine, and my father is the gardener.。
I am the true vine, which means he's the real version.。
He's the genuine version.。
He's the original version.。
He is the original vine.。
He's what God has originally designed and planned。
for this entire humanity, all his creation,。
to experience the blessings of God.。
He is the true vine.。
So Jesus is saying, Israel was just a shadow.。
I am the substance.。
Israel was just a type, if you will,。
and I am the reality.。
I am that reality that Israel, as a type,。
was pointing towards.。
If Israel was called, like, the vine in the Old Testament,。
it was because Israel was a representative.。
It was pointing towards the true vine.。
That is me, Jesus says.。
This completely redraws the map of people of God.。
You know, in the old way, to be the people of God,。
you have to be Jewish by blood.。
You have to observe the Torah,。
which is the Old Testament law,。
but in the new way, now you belong to God.。
You're a part of God's people,。
simply by having this genuine connection with Jesus.。
And Jesus continues to describe the father's role。
as the gardener.。
He continued to say this, said,。
"He, the gardener, cuts off every branch in me。
"that bears no fruit.。
"While every branch that does bear fruit,。
"he prunes so that it will be even more fruitful.。
"You are already clean。
"because of the word I have spoken to you."。
The father is not a distant observer,。
but he is the vine dresser.。
He's the gardener.。
He's the one who is hands-on.。
He's the constantly working vine dresser.。
So he has, he would probably divide his work。
into two different categories.。
He's either cutting off branches。
or he's pruning these branches.。
We know that branches that don't bear fruit,。
that we see no fruit, no life in it.。
It's not producing anything.。
This gardener God, the father,。
would cut them off from the tree。
because normally branches that do not bear fruit。
means there's something wrong with it.。
Maybe there are bugs in it.。
Maybe it has some disease in it.。
If you don't cut it off,。
it will infect the rest of the plant.。
So it must be cut off.。
You cannot let it stay.。
Branches that don't bear fruit,。
meaning there is no life.。
You don't see the life of Jesus in these people.。
They said they come to church.。
They said they're part of the community,。
but you never really see the life of Jesus,。
the character of Jesus.。
You don't see any of that in them.。
They're just here.。
And in that group who are with Jesus,。
back then there is a guy whose name is Judas.。
He was part of the group,。
but he was never truly one of them.。
And then Jesus continues to say,。
but yeah, my father also does something else.。
He would come and prune.。
He will come and cut back a little bit。
from those branches.。
What branches?。
Those branches that could bear fruit。
or those branches that are bearing fruits.。
And this pruning process is never something。
that we consider comfortable.。
But I just want to draw attention to this today.。
Maybe there are times you feel life, it's quite difficult。
after you have become a Christian,。
after you give your life to Jesus,。
after you have done everything that he asked you to.。
And you're wondering why life is so difficult.。
Why I'm still having this conflict with my spouse,。
with my colleagues.。
Why am I still going through this difficulty in life?。
Why am I going through all that?。
I just want to draw attention here today。
to the fact that God doesn't prune those branches。
that are not bearing fruit.。
He prunes those branches that are foot bearing,。
which means before he comes and does something in your life。
and say, "Oh, I got to cut off something.。
I need to let you go through some challenges."。
Before he does that, first he saw something in us.。
He saw that we are indeed bearing fruits.。
That's why a lot of the stories I heard,。
why challenges always comes when you start to follow God,。
when you start to give your life to God,。
when you start to see something in your life。
and then those challenges come.。
God is saying, "Hey, there are things in your life。
that will suck the life out,。
that is not allowing you to bear fruit.。
Maybe there are distractions in your life.。
Maybe there are things that does not align。
with the life I want to give you.。
So I have to take away some of those things.。
I need to ask you to lay down some of those things.。
I need you to go through these challenges。
so you can continue to grow."。
And that's never easy.。
That's never comfortable.。
But if God has never seen those fruits in your life,。
He would never have done that.。
So today, or maybe in the past,。
or maybe in the future,。
if you ever see yourself going through some hardships。
in life, some challenges, some real difficulties,。
can I suggest that it's the loving act of the Father,。
the gardener who is helping us to bear more fruit?。
And that's what Jesus is suggesting here.。
Say, "Yeah, I know sometimes life can be hard。
when the Father comes and prunes us."。
Because there are places,。
there are some things in our life。
that were reflecting Jesus,。
but there are some things that。
that are not reflecting Jesus in our lives.。
And He wants to take that away.。
He wants us to bear fruits.。
And so here Jesus, He continues to say in verse four,。
says, "Remain in me, and I also remain in you.。
No branch can bear fruit by itself.。
It must remain in the vine.。
Neither can you bear fruit unless you remain in me.。
I am the vine, you are the branches.。
If you remain in me and I in you,。
you will bear much fruit.。
Apart from me, you can do nothing.。
If you do not remain in me,。
you are like a branch that is thrown away and withers.。
Such branches are picked up,。
thrown into the fire and burn.。
If you remain in me and my words remain in you,。
ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you.。
This is to my Father's glory that you bear much fruit,。
showing yourselves to be my disciples."。
So interesting what Jesus is describing here。
between the relationships of Him as the vine。
and us as the branches was part of this vine.。
He said, you know, we cannot do anything apart from Him.。
We cannot have that power of life.。
We don't have that.。
We don't have the source of joy, source of love.。
We don't have any of that if we're not in Him.。
But so as the branches, we are drawing our life,。
we're drawing our joy and peace and love.。
We're drawing all these qualities,。
all these life qualities from the vine itself.。
But then at the same time,。
the vine Jesus is bearing fruit in this world。
through His branches.。
That plan that God always has for the vine to grow。
and bear fruit and bless the entire world,。
you know, for the descendants of Abraham。
to be blessed so that they will be a blessing.。
This whole idea, the idea of fruit bearing。
to bless the rest of the world,。
Jesus says, "It's my branches bearing these fruits。
that will bless the world."。
Let me say this again, as branches,。
we are to draw life from Jesus.。
He's the source of our life.。
But then the vine says,。
"I'm going to bear fruit and bless this world."。
Through whom?。
Through the branches that is connected in me.。
We are part of that plan for God to bless this world.。
He said, "I'm doing this through this vine.。
I'm doing this through the branches of the vine."。
It will be the fruits hanging on these branches.。
It will be the life, it will be the power,。
it will be the love, the joy that is displayed。
in all these branches that are sitting here right now.。
When they're in the world around them,。
when they're in this community, this neighborhood,。
it will be the fruits in your life,。
in my life, in our lives,。
that will become a blessing to the world around us.。
But we will never be able to bear fruit。
if we're not connected to the source.。
That is Jesus.。
And so he says, "Remain in me."。
This is quite interesting.。
The word remain in itself,。
it suggests or it carries a sense of continuity。
in terms of time.。
Like when you have to remain in a place,。
it means it takes a while.。
There should be a stretch of time.。
You can't just go there, "Oh, I've arrived, I'm leaving."。
If you have to remain in the place, it takes time.。
And the other thing is that, you know,。
when it talks about biblical commands,。
especially in the New Testament,。
let's say when Paul wrote in Ephesians 5, verse 18,。
if you've been to an alpha,。
you probably have heard about this.。
He says, Paul says,。
"You have to be filled with the Holy Spirit."。
If we look at the original language, Greek,。
we look at the grammar, the tense,。
that the biblical author Paul was using.。
It was in Greek, it's called present tense,。
but what it means is actually our English。
present continuous tense,。
which means normally when we translate that verse,。
we're saying, "Be filled with the Holy Spirit."。
It means you have to keep being filled with the Holy Spirit.。
It has to be an ongoing, it's a present continuous motion.。
You have to come back to this again and again.。
It has to keep happening in our lives.。
Earlier this year, at the beginning of this year,。
my first sermon this year was on 1 Thessalonians。
that says, "Rejoice always, pray without ceasing,。
"give thanks in all circumstances."。
It was written in this present tense。
or our present continuous tense.。
You have to keep rejoicing, you have to keep praying,。
you have to keep giving thanks again and again.。
When Jesus says, "You have to seek first。
"the kingdom of God,"。
he's saying this in the present tense,。
but when you expect him to say, "Remain in me,"。
you expect that to be in this present。
or present continuous tense, "Keep remaining in me,"。
that's what we would have guessed。
what he's saying here or what would be written here。
grammatically, John actually wrote something else.。
He actually used a different tense in Greek to write this,。
a tense that basically describes that action of remaining。
as a complete decisive action in itself.。
So I know this is super abstract,。
but if you think about photos, videos,。
if you think normally the commands。
would be like filming a video, it's an ongoing thing,。
this is a snapshot, this is just one snapshot.。
This is just one moment that looking at。
what Jesus is saying here,。
it's not wake up every morning。
and anxiously try to reestablish your connection with me.。
He's not saying that.。
Instead, when John recorded this in the tense。
that kind of like a one off, like a one complete action。
when he say this, he is basically referring to this.。
Jesus is saying, "Take up your residence in me.。
"Settle this issue once and for all.。
"Do this, just move for good."。
It's like people who move to another country,。
you move for good, remain in me, come and settle in me,。
settle for good from now on, just stay in me,。
just remain here.。
In other words, Jesus is asking us to make a decision。
when he said that to his disciples.。
He's saying that you have to make a decision。
to live in me for good, for the rest of your life.。
You have to make that decision today.。
You have to make a decision for yourself.。
Just like at the beginning of this message,。
I said Christmas is a time that pushes us。
towards a decision.。
Who do we consider Jesus to be?。
We have to make a decision for ourselves.。
Here, Jesus is asking those who follow him。
to say, "You remain in me,。
"but you gotta make a decision right now."。
It's a once and for all decision.。
And we know that when this word for remain。
in the original tense in Greek,。
it emphasized that kind of residence remaining,。
but it's not just, it shouldn't be translated。
as you should remain with me.。
It's not just about proximity.。
Jesus is saying remain in me.。
This translation means it's the position。
or the location, where are you?。
Us remaining in Jesus, it's like,。
we're not just me coming near to pass it to him,。
staying with him, hang with him, hang out with him。
like he's my buddy or he's my buddy,。
but it's not just about hanging out with him.。
When Jesus asked him to remain in him,。
it's like fish belongs in water,。
birds would fly in the air,。
that kind of remain in that environment.。
He says, Jesus says, "I am the environment。
"that you should be in."。
Oh, like, I'm sure the disciples have no clue。
what he was talking about.。
But if we continue to read on。
what does it mean remain in Jesus?。
Biblical scholars, when they look at。
John chapter 15, they would say,。
verse one to eight is the parable。
of the vine and branches,。
but nine to 16, it's actually the explanation。
of this, like a metaphor, if you will.。
So chapter 15, verse nine says this,。
"As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you.。
"Now remain in my love."。
If you keep my commands, you will remain in my love,。
just as I have kept my Father's commands。
and remain in his love.。
When Jesus says remain in me,。
when we put these two paragraphs side by side,。
what he was meaning is remain in me。
means remain in my love,。
and what is the love of Jesus?。
These words were spoken like maybe 12, 14 hours。
right before he was nailed on that cross.。
He says, let me show you what I mean。
when I say I love you.。
He continued to say it,。
by the way, not gonna read this.。
He said, there's no greater love。
than someone laying down his life for his friends.。
Remain in this kind of love.。
Remain in my self-sacrificial love.。
I sacrifice my love for you。
to show you how much I love you.。
Remain in my love, and you ask,。
how do I remain in his love?。
And he says this,。
"Keep my commands, do everything as I said.。
"That's how you remain in my love."。
And you think, wow, so it's all about obeying another boss?。
Like he's a master, he's asking me to do this or that,。
so must I do this or that to prove my love?。
Or should I do this or that, even worse,。
should I do this or that, or A or B or C,。
so that I could be loved?。
If we're doing all these like not to sin。
and to give to the poor, come to church, read the Bible,。
sing very loud in worship,。
if we have to do a lot of things,。
we have to keep all the commands in order to be loved,。
that's called a transaction.。
This is not what Jesus is saying here.。
He's not saying you do, you keep my command,。
do all these things so that I will love you,。
so that you could receive my love.。
No, he has already loved us.。
He said, "I have loved you, just as my father has loved me.。
"I have already loved you,。
"so that that's why I'm going to the cross for you,。
"but let me put this this way.。
"I know we are experiencing a pretty warm。
"or even hot Christmas this week,。
"but just imagine with me for a moment.。
"Imagine with me for a moment,。
"now we have the coldest winter,。
"coldest Christmas in Hong Kong like ever.。
"It's so cold outside right now,。
"and we have our heaters on in this place.。
"It's so warm here,。
"and I'm telling you, remain in this place.。
"And in order to remain in this place,。
"you have to do this or that.。
"Don't leave that door."。
And when I tell you, don't leave that door,。
don't go beyond that boundary.。
It's not a transaction.。
It's not if you don't do A, B, or C,。
then you will be able to.。
It's not a condition, or it's not a transaction.。
It just simply means that, yeah,。
our heater is only on and it's only working in this area.。
If you walk out of this room, yeah,。
the heater is still on.。
It's still warm.。
It's still radiating heat,。
but you won't be able to feel it.。
You will be cold outside.。
So remain in this area.。
Don't leave this room。
so that you can enjoy the warmth of the heater.。
God says, "Remain in my love.。
"These are the boundaries I draw。
"if you walk out of what I have spoken to you.。
"If you have walked out of where I draw a boundary。
"with my command, you're gonna be outside.。
"You're gonna be feeling cold.。
"You're gonna be feeling the darkness.。
"You're gonna be feeling hopelessness and all that,。
"but remain in my love.。
"Remain in this area with the boundaries。
"I've drawn with my word."。
God says, "I want you to remain here."。
It's not legalism.。
It's an atmosphere.。
He's saying, "Come stay here with me in my presence."。
And when we realize the one who gave this command。
to keep my words, to stay, to remain in me,。
if we realize he's the one。
who actually had his hand nailed to the cross because of us,。
he would know this is not a harsh command.。
This is not an unreasonable command.。
He said that out of love.。
He did that out of love.。
And what we could do is to respond out of love as well.。
And therefore, obedience, it's not a transaction.。
Obedience here in Jesus, it's a position.。
We do not obey to earn his favor,。
but to remain in the radiating warmth of his love.。
Obedience is not a transaction.。
It's not, "If I do this, I get that."。
It puts us in a position or a posture。
that we could continually receive。
that love that he has given for us.。
And it's very interesting to look at prayer。
through this lens, and I'm gonna end with this.。
Or not, or yes, okay.。
It's very interesting to look at prayer through this lens.。
You see, in this world's value system,。
we normally evaluate our prayer,。
or we evaluate the power and goodness of God。
according to the answers of our prayer, to our prayer,。
or the lack of answers to our prayer, right?。
Oh, if I pray and God answer, oh, he must be loving.。
Oh, he must be good.。
Oh, he must be powerful,。
because when I pray, he answer, he could do that.。
The world, it's basically judging God like that.。
Oh, if he answer my prayer,。
oh, he must be good and loving and powerful,。
but Jesus here forces us to look at it the other way.。
He says, "If you are in me, if my word is in you,。
"whatever you're gonna ask, God is gonna give it to you."。
He's saying you have to flip that matrix around.。
Whether your prayers got answered or not,。
it's not dependent, it's not about whether God is good。
or faithful or powerful.。
It's about whether you are in him.。
It's whether you have his word in you,。
whether you understand him.。
I love the words in one of the devotionals I read。
two decades ago, maybe.。
By the way, we have devotions coming up for fasting season.。
But one of the devotions I read many years ago,。
it says this, "Having the word of God in us,。
"it looks like God's mind just becomes my common sense."。
That's being in him.。
That's the kind of friendship Jesus is talking about.。
I know him.。
His heart, his mind, his will just becomes my common sense.。
I know it already.。
If that's my common sense, then come on,。
whatever I pray, of course,。
I'm praying according to his will.。
And of course, he would say yes to that.。
Because whatever I'm praying,。
I'm praying towards that goal。
where the fruits of the vine would fill this world,。
the blessings from the vine would fill the entire earth.。
I'm contributing my prayer.。
It's contributing to that mission, to that goal.。
And of course, God would say yes to that.。
So whether our prayers got answered or not here,。
according to this passage, what Jesus is saying,。
perhaps it's not a measurement。
of how good or powerful God is.。
It's a measurement of whether we are remaining in him,。
whether his word is remaining in us,。
whether we have that or not.。
It's a very,。
it's a very good test。
for us to just look at our prayer life like that.。
Okay, I promise I'll end with this.。
That brings us to my last point.。
You see, in this message that Jesus spoke to his disciples,。
very likely he was walking past this temple。
with the golden vine hanging outside of the temple.。
And yet he declares, "I am the true vine."。
As human beings, sometimes when we look at,。
reflect on our own prayer lives,。
the things we pray for, the things we ask God for,。
the things we want God to do for us,。
it's a little bit like that golden grapes,。
golden vine hanging outside of the temple.。
It's magnificent, it's beautiful, it's glorious.。
It's humanly speaking,。
but God didn't plant the gardener.。
He didn't plant his true vine in that temple.。
He didn't even plant his true vine in a palace.。
Christmas tells us that God came,。
the gardener came and plant that true vine in a manger.。
Let me pause right there.。
When we talk about manger,。
you think of that beautiful, cute, warm, fuzzy nativity scene。
that we've been shown like years after years.。
Well, it's silent night, holy night.。
And while all the animals are quietly like just waiting there。
and looking at the baby Jesus and, oh, no.。
Manger is the place, or the stable is the place where,。
you know, in Judean house, there are two levels.。
The upper level, it's where human beings live,。
and the lower level is where all the animals belong.。
And so Jesus, Joseph and Mary, parents of Jesus,。
they were in the lower level。
because they were rejected in the upper level.。
They were unwanted.。
Because Mary was pregnant outside of the wetlock,。
they were rejected.。
Nobody wanted to have anything to do with them,。
so they were with the animals.。
And the animals were not quiet.。
They were mad.。
It's like, oh, McDonald's had a farm.。
You have all those sounds.。
And it stinks.。
You know, stable is not that wooden, you know,。
you make like a beautiful, small car.。
No, in those days, a stable, I mean, a manger,。
it's the stone part of that building。
that they just carve out some space in that stone,。
and they put all the hair, all the stuff there,。
and the animals eat from there.。
So all the saliva is all over that thing.。
And Jesus had no place to sleep when he was born.。
He had to be put in that manger.。
So humiliating, so disgusting.。
But God, the gardener, planted the true vine in a manger。
to send a message that there is no place on earth too dirty。
that I would not go.。
There is no human being, there's no people here too dirty,。
too dark that I'm not willing to reach.。
I'm here to serve, I'm here to love,。
I'm here to reach those who are forgotten,。
those who are rejected.。
God planted his true vine in a manger.。
And he says, whoever is willing to admit。
the darkness inside of them,。
whoever realize the stinkiness inside of them,。
whoever is willing to admit, can come to me。
and connect with me and remain in me。
and be part of that true vine and be a branch here。
and I will make sure you bear fruit.。
God will say, I'll come and prune.。
Yes, I see the darkness, I see the weaknesses,。
I see the limitations, I see all these things in your life.。
But if you are willing to listen to Jesus's word,。
when I see fruit in you, when you are willing,。
I'm gonna come and prune all those stuff away,。
I'm going to cut back, I'm gonna make sure you will grow,。
you will bear fruit, I'm gonna make sure。
your life will be fruitful, I'm gonna make sure。
the life of Jesus will start to flow through you。
so that wherever you go, in your workplace,。
in your family, wherever you go,。
those fruits will be a blessing to this world.。
That was my plan, God says.。
That has always been my plan.。
I want you to be part of the life of Jesus,。
deeply connected to him, you're drawing your life from him,。
you're drawing your joy, your peace,。
your love from his being, and so that it would overflow。
in you and it will manifest as fruit in your life.。
That's always his plan.。
Jesus says, I am the true vine, you are the branches.。
That brings us back to the question today.。
What kind of branches are we today?。
Can we have the band back here, please?。
What kind of branches are we today?。
I think Christmas is a perfect time for us。
to just come before God and be honest to ourselves.。
If you have ever felt this kind of pruning。
happening in your life, that there is hardship,。
you want to follow God but it was so hard。
that you were let down, sometimes you were even criticized,。
sometimes or all the time you feel,。
well, you're not good enough,。
or all that whatever you're going through.。
I don't want to be harsh but I do want to say,。
congratulations, God is at work in your life.。
If he sees us as those unfruitful branch,。
he will simply just cut us off.。
But if God is still at work in you,。
that means there must be an area in your life。
that you have already started to bear fruit.。
So don't get discouraged.。
I know how hard sometimes it could be。
to fail again and again in life,。
to get rejected again and again in life,。
to feel you're not good enough, you don't measure up.。
I know how it feels.。
But God is not done yet.。
He is the gardener, he is the good and faithful one.。
He says, if I'm going to start a work inside of you,。
I'm going to finish it myself.。
And his presence is in this room today.。
The gardener, God the Father, is looking down.。
He saw the branches here in this room.。
And he said, you will always be my plan A for this world.。
I will always bless this world。
through the branches of the true vine, Jesus.。
So why don't we just come before him?。
Why don't we just come back to the source,。
come back to the vine, the true vine,。
say, God, I surrender.。
I want to remain in you.。
I want to remain in your love.。
This is where I feel hard to follow your word.。
This is where I couldn't align my lifestyle。
with your word yet.。
Please come and prune me.。
You know, the Bible says,。
Jesus, for the joy that is set before him,。
he endure the suffering.。
Pruning feels like that, it's like a suffering.。
You will not enjoy pruning.。
Pruning is something that you have to endure,。
but the real joy, it's what's beyond it.。
I'm not asking you to enjoy being pruned.。
I'm asking you to endure being pruned。
so that you can finally, one day,。
enjoy the fruitfulness in your life.。
Areas in your life you will reflect the glory of the Father。
and the love of Jesus.。
It's possible because he is capable.。
It's Christmas, why don't we come back to him?。
Why don't we stand, stand together?。
If you would like to,。
you may open up your hands,。
it's just a gesture, a posture,。
telling God, God, I'm here, I surrender.。
Say to him, God, I'm struggling in this area.。
I know my life does not align with the word。
that you have put in me yet.。
Help me, come and prune me, God.。
Until my life reflects the life of Jesus,。
until his life is overflowing in me。
and expressed itself as the fruits in my life,。
the joy, the peace,。
the love that I show the people around me,。
until I look like Jesus,。
until this city of Hong Kong, this area of Yuen Long。
is filled with branches walking around。
and they're all displaying the DNA of the vine,。
they're all displaying the character of Jesus,。
they're all displaying the power of the Holy Spirit.。
Father, before that, we pray you will come。
and continue to prune the branches in this church.。
Come and prune me, Lord.。
(gentle music)。
