Let's put our hands together for Joshua for the way he leads with joy and grace.。
Thank you so much.。
It's such a pleasure to have you with us leading up front.。
How's everyone doing?。
Uh-oh.。
Is it the weather?。
Do we have to pray for the weather?。
Please don't.。
I love this kind of weather.。
I'm going to spend Christmas in Singapore.。
I'm going to miss this weather.。
Anyway, anybody loves movie here?。
Okay, two of you, three of you, that's not too bad.。
I want to give you a little bit of local culture sort of information.。
If you've been around town lately, if you've been walking on the streets or scrolling on。
social media, there's actually a local movie that's under the spotlight right now.。
It receives so much attention because it hit $80 million box office in just two weeks'。
time.。
Just to give you a bit of context, in Hong Kong cinema history, there's only been one。
movie so far that has hit the $100 million mark.。
This one, it's quite likely to be the second one.。
It receives a lot of attention.。
A lot of people are talking about it.。
It has a very interesting name, interesting title.。
It's called The Last Dance, or The Last Dance for all my British friends here.。
It's actually about a Taoist priest or about a wedding planner who somehow entered into。
the funeral industry by chance.。
He had to partner with this Taoist priest.。
Through this whole process, this wedding planner turned into a funeral planner.。
He was learning about life and death through this whole funeral experience.。
While the Chinese name of this movie was actually taken from the very rituals that Taoists perform。
at a Chinese funeral, it's not about all these religious or spiritual practices.。
It's more about finding out the meaning of life and death.。
But today I don't want to talk about this movie.。
I'm not going to spoil it for you guys.。
I do want to zoom in a little bit into one particular character.。
There is this family behind me on the screen.。
There is this family, the oldest guy is the Taoist priest.。
He performs all the rituals.。
In Chinese, we call him La Mo Si Fu.。
He does all the very funny dance.。
That's what he does.。
He actually has a son.。
Very conveniently, his son followed his father's footsteps and also became a Taoist priest.。
This would be his son right here.。
But somehow, this son of his, who himself is a Taoist priest, he actually married a。
Catholic lady.。
Or a Christian, a Catholic lady.。
They gave birth to a very cute son.。
The son followed his mom to be a Catholic.。
This is a true Hong Kong story in many different senses.。
But one of the ways it's very Hong Kong is that as this boy is growing up, he needs to。
apply for a school.。
And of course, his mom would want him to apply to get into a Catholic school or a Christian。
school.。
And this is a true Hong Kong story because the school said if both parents are baptized。
into the church, the boy would get extra points to get into the school.。
Very Hong Kong, right?。
So like what all mothers would do, this mom wearing that hat behind the husband, required,。
asked the husband, "Hey, could you get baptized?"。
She asked a Taoist priest to get baptized.。
And of course, for the son, the priest said, "Yeah, I'll do it.。
I'll do it for him."。
And later, okay, I know this is a bit of a spoiler, but I promise just this little bit,。
all right?。
You can still go to watch the movie.。
It's still very enjoyable with this little bit of spoiler.。
So there was one time the whole family was having dinner and the wife was doing this,。
"Hey, hey, hey."。
Like what?。
"Hey, now you're baptized.。
You got to say grace before your dinner."。
And so the Taoist priest, the younger one, was forced to say grace in front of the entire。
family.。
You can't even imagine what his father would react to that.。
It's funny, there are so many modern movies and TV shows that they would include kind。
of like a Christian character or a character with Christian or Catholic faith background。
into the plot.。
And in other shows and movies we watch, we sometimes would see that.。
Yet, it's also not a trail of these characters and their faith.。
Sometimes it's quite negative.。
In pop culture, when a Christian is in the plot of a movie or a TV show, well, at best,。
that character, what they want to show you is that this character is quite committed。
or this character has very strong moral values.。
But strong moral values sometimes means this character is sort of like conservative or。
old-fashioned or stubborn, illogical, judgmental, and worst case scenario, this guy is hypocritical.。
This is how Christians are being seen in a modern-day pop culture or in entertainment.。
And sometimes we think that, "You know what?。
This is just stereotype just because they never step foot in a church, they never meet。
people like you and me.。
That's why they have such a stereotype."。
Perhaps that's what we're thinking.。
To a certain degree, I agree because they haven't met you guys, so that's why they don't。
know better.。
But maybe some of us here, we're rather new to this faith.。
Maybe a couple weeks ago, you were not Christians yet, and that's also how you used to see。
Christianity.。
That's how you used to see Christians.。
That's how you used to see people in the church, were like old-fashioned, judgmental, hypocritical,。
until you have an encounter with Jesus himself and you join a community of faith and you。
find, "Oh, maybe it's not that bad.。
It's a little bit different."。
Or maybe you're sitting here right now even feeling a little bit uncomfortable when you。
hear the name Christian being associated with all these qualities I just mentioned.。
But my point is, collectively as a church, we may have certain reputations.。
I know some of you understand what I'm talking about.。
I can feel it.。
I know sometimes those labels on us, they may not do us justice, but I would also like。
to call us to a place of reflection today, church.。
What do these impressions about Christians come from?。
Where do they come from?。
What are we known for in this city?。
What are we known for as a church here in Yuen Long?。
Interestingly, when we open up the New Testament and look at a group of people who are known。
as the Pharisees, they have certain reputations as well.。
As a New Testament reader, as we read through this book, we probably form our opinions about。
them based on the narratives and the comments in the gospel story about this group of people.。
We normally know the Pharisees as they're stubborn, they're judgmental, legalistic,。
self-righteous, hypocritic.。
That's how we see them.。
And surely if one of these Pharisees, if they were alive today, and if he stand right here。
with us in this room right now, he would tell you, or he would try to tell you a different。
story.。
He would try to disagree with all the labels we had on them, and he would start to explain。
to us what Pharisees believe in and what are the practices all about.。
They were actually a group or a movement started about 150 years before the time of Jesus.。
That's a period of time between the Old Testament and the New Testament.。
And just as the prophet Daniel prophesied in the Old Testament, there were rulers or。
nations rising to power to rule over the Jews or Israel after they returned from exile.。
We know that Persia actually replaced Babylon as the new superpower.。
And then we all heard about Alexander the Great, his Greek empire took over the entire。
region and then it was the Romans.。
But when Alexander the Great, when the Greek empire took over that area, they tried to。
do something.。
Well, the Romans actually copied them as well.。
They tried to export their own culture, their language, their practices, their philosophies.。
They've been teaching everyone in the entire empire in different regions how to talk right。
in Greek, how to think like a Greek.。
They've been doing that.。
So that's why in the New Testament, the language of the Bible is no longer written in Hebrew.。
It's actually written in Greek, Koine Greek.。
Oh yes, yes, positive, yes.。
It's Koine Greek.。
It's not classical Greek.。
It's not the modern Greek we're reading.。
It's a very special form of Greek that was popular during that time.。
So we read the New Testament or it's written in Greek.。
But not just that.。
When this language, we do have a lot of Hong Kongers here who are slightly more mature。
in age.。
We were born before 1997.。
So you would have a sense of, you know what it means to be in a colony.。
Some of us here, like myself, I'm Chinese.。
Well, speaking about my ethnicity, but I grew up learning English.。
That's why I can preach here today.。
I grew up learning English because we were a British colony.。
And I don't just learn English.。
I learn, I pick up the way how English speakers would think.。
I pick up the way, I pick up Western philosophies as well.。
Because of that, I pick up a little bit, just a little bit of Westerner kind of lifestyle.。
So when these Jewish people, when they were being influenced by the Greek or Roman culture,。
it's not just the language they spoke that was influenced.。
It's also the way they think, the way they see life.。
And they slowly shifted away from the original Hebrew roots.。
And there was a group of Jewish people.。
They saw that.。
They saw how the people are no longer rooted in their faith, in this Hebrew faith of theirs.。
And so they decided to do something.。
And they recognized that if there's one thing that sets them apart from the rest of all。
the other nations or people around them, that would actually be God's word.。
More precisely, that would be the law of God, the law of Moses.。
And so this particular group of people, they started devoting themselves to studying, to。
try, not, well, translating a little bit as well.。
Studying, they copy it, and they started teaching the word of God or the law or the prophets.。
And these group of people, they said, we must align our lifestyle with the standard of the。
law of Moses.。
And that's not enough.。
Sometimes we don't know specifically in our everyday life how we can actually practice。
that.。
So we should come up, we should extend it a little bit, give it a little bit of commentary.。
And we have all these oral traditions.。
And this group of people, now we know them as the Pharisees.。
If we look at the name Pharisee itself, it's actually from an Aramaic word called perushim.。
It actually means to separate, to divide, or distinguish.。
So they are saying, we are the separated ones.。
We are the ones who are set apart.。
Does that ring a bell?。
Does that sound familiar?。
Maybe you've heard of it in the church before as well.。
We are the holy one.。
We're the separated ones.。
We are the one that are set apart.。
And they just keep doing this and doing this.。
They try their best to interpret whatever laws they know about and how to apply that。
in their everyday life.。
And so, and they come up with more and more and more rules and traditions.。
If there's one thing, this group of Pharisees, they want to be known for, they want to be。
known as the righteous people.。
They want to be known as the pious people.。
But fast forward 150 years later, when we meet them in the stories of the New Testament,。
their reputation wasn't quite what they wished for.。
Self-righteous, legalistic, judgmental, hypocritical.。
These were their reputations.。
And this is how they are remembered for thousands of years now.。
And the problem is, church, there was a gap between what their beliefs stood for and what。
they were known for.。
Let me repeat again.。
I believe this group of Pharisees, when they first started, they have every good intention。
to honor God, to do His will.。
But what their beliefs actually stood for and what they were ultimately known for, there's。
a gap there.。
And that's a problem or a question for us today as well.。
When we look at our reputation as a church in the city or as the church in the city or。
in this world, is there a gap between what our faith stands for and what we're known。
for?。
So we reflect on this together today.。
I do want to open the Bible and read yet another of Jesus's parables with us today.。
We're going to look at Luke 14, and here's the background in first one.。
Luke 14, first one, it says this, "One Sabbath when Jesus went to eat in a house of a prominent。
Pharisee, He was being carefully watched."。
One verse, but there's tons of information in this single verse.。
So first of all, this is a Sabbath.。
And it's important because, again, spoiler alert, a miracle is going to happen in this。
chapter and it's going to take place later.。
In the Gospels altogether, in all four Gospels altogether, there were seven recorded miracles。
on Sabbath.。
And this is the last healing miracle on Sabbath in the writings of Luke, and there were two。
before it.。
But every single time when Jesus performed a healing miracle or any miracle on Sabbath,。
the result was always that some kind of tension and conflict would rise up between Him and。
the Pharisees.。
Because in the Pharisees' interpretation of the law, no work is to be done on Sabbath,。
like not at all.。
And performing miracle, healing someone, it's actually work.。
It's productivity, I guess, you get someone healed, hallelujah.。
But that means if Jesus heals someone on Sabbath, He's breaking the law.。
He's breaking the law of Moses.。
That makes Him a very terrible person, or at least according to their version or their。
interpretation of the law.。
And so now a leader of the Pharisees invited Jesus for a meal in His house, and they are。
watching Him.。
"My eyes are on you.。
We're watching you."。
The immediate story tells us that there was a man that was ill with a disease called dropsy,。
some sort of like swelling in the body.。
But this is interesting.。
Sick people, like we've always explained here, sick people in those days are considered,。
they're probably sinners.。
And these Pharisees who want to set apart from bad people, from sinful people, they。
try to stay away from them as much as possible.。
But in the house of a Pharisee leader, there is a sick person.。
There's a possibly sinner here.。
So I could only guess this is probably a setup because they're watching what Jesus is going。
to do.。
This is totally a setup.。
But you know that every time you put a sick person with Jesus in the same room, there's。
only one thing that could happen.。
The sick person walks out being healed.。
I think we need more of that, amen?。
We need more.。
We need to put sick people in the same room with Jesus more so that they get healed.。
So Jesus would perform his miracles.。
We need that.。
And so that's what happened.。
And then this is what's happened next.。
I'm going to start from verse seven.。
So when Jesus noticed how the guests picked the places of honor at the table, he told。
them this parable.。
When someone invites you to a wedding feast, do not take the place of honor for a person。
more distinguished than you may have been invited.。
If so, the host who invited both of you will come and say to you, give this person your。
seat.。
Then humiliated, you will have to take the least important place.。
But when you are invited, take the lowest place so that when your host comes, he will。
say to you, friend, move up to a better place.。
And you will be honored in the presence of all the other guests.。
For all those who exalt themselves will be humbled and those who humble themselves will。
be exalted.。
Then Jesus said to his host, when you give a luncheon or dinner, do not invite your friends,。
your brothers or sisters, your relatives, or your rich neighbors.。
If you do, they may invite you back and so you will be repaid.。
But when you give a banquet, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind, and you。
will be blessed.。
Although they cannot repay you, you will be repaid at the resurrection of the righteous.。
So first of all, when we look at this passage, who are these guests?。
Easy.。
Those are the Pharisees, teachers, experts of the law who come all the way just to watch。
Jesus.。
And here Luke described Jesus noticed how they picked the places of honor, the front。
row seats, the head table at the banquet.。
To give you a little bit of context, in a Jewish feast those days, they adopted the。
Greco-Roman furniture called a triclinium.。
Oh, that's this table right here.。
It's a couch for three people and they will put different triclinia together and they。
will arrange it in a U shape.。
And what they do is the guests would recline on this table on their left elbow.。
They would all recline like this and they eat and they chat.。
That's how they spend the evening.。
I don't know how they can do that all night.。
If I do this for 50 minutes, I'll have a cramp.。
I don't know how to do that.。
But that's their culture.。
And the places of honor, it's here in the center of that table.。
And also those seats like right next to him, those on his left, on his right, who would。
either sit at his back or the other one who would be sitting there and leaning into his。
bosom.。
These are the places of honor.。
And Jesus was saying, "Hey, do not pick these."。
In today's culture, this would be the head table, the front row seat where you have a。
sign VIP there.。
So these people, they want to be VIPs.。
The Pharisees like to pick these places of honor.。
Jesus actually mentioned this in different locations in the Bible.。
If you flip through all the gospels, you would see Jesus commenting on this practice or this。
behavior that they like the VIP seats, they like to be VIP.。
And so Jesus, he decided to tell them something, to share a message with them.。
But what's interesting here is that this message, which appear, Jesus was just addressing that。
behavior, kind of like what Jesus was telling these Pharisees, it's just what's happening。
regarding the scene right there.。
And in fact, he didn't just comment on their behavior on the spot.。
He turned this whole scenario into a parable.。
He wanted to tell them something about the kingdom of God through this scenario.。
So Jesus, all these words, yes, it relate directly, it's relevant directly to what happened。
in that house of the Pharisee that night.。
But Jesus wanted to tell them something more than that.。
Jesus wanted to tell them something about the kingdom of God because his conclusion。
in verse 11 is this, "For all those who exalt themselves will be humbled and all those who。
humble themselves will be exalted."。
These are the exact wordings found in another parable about the Pharisees' prayer and the。
tax collectors' prayer in Luke 18, and Pastor John preached that to us several weeks ago.。
But why is this parable in the Pharisees' house, why is it a parable about the kingdom。
of God?。
Why don't we take a closer look?。
It says the proud will be humbled and the humbled will be exalted.。
So in English, you know, grammar, this is passive tense.。
They will be humbled, they will be exalted.。
Now the question is, who is going to exalt them?。
Who is going to humble them?。
And this is the kind of writing technique of the Jews.。
The scholars of the Bible actually call this grammar or this figure of speech, they call。
it the divine passive.。
Meaning that they omitted the mentioning of God here as a form of respect.。
But Jesus was indeed pointing to the moment of the final judgment when God himself will。
be there, sit in front of everyone.。
And all those who exalt themselves while they're in this life, God is going to humble them.。
Those who humble themselves in this life, God is going to exalt them.。
God is going to raise them up.。
This is God's doing.。
This is what he wants to do.。
It may appear here that Jesus was giving them a word of advice about the social life.。
But if we look closer, Jesus really wanted to communicate the ultimate reality that they。
and all of us here, it's going to face one day.。
And so church, get ready for that.。
Because how you choose to live in this life would affect how you spend eternity.。
You can try every day, try your very best to promote yourself, to gain status, and to。
be powerful, to be famous, to look good in front of other people, trying to be somebody。
while you are in this life.。
And then you spend eternity as a nobody.。
Or you can live your life in a way that as though you are a nobody here in this part。
of the world, in this life.。
And the day when you stand before the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, when you stand。
before his throne, he will tell you, "My son, my friend, come.。
I have the place of honor for you.。
You are my VIP in my kingdom.。
Somebody will know you as a somebody in eternity.。
It's our choice.。
It's up to us."。
He's asking us, "What would you choose?。
How are you going to choose in your everyday life while you're on this side of eternity?"。
And the most beautiful thing here is that we thought, yeah, Jesus is rebuking these。
Pharisees, saying, "You know, you guys are so bad."。
But in fact, Jesus is giving them a choice, offering them a choice.。
Jesus is warning them, "God would humble you one day if you don't humble yourself right。
now."。
But he also invites them into the humility, into humbling themselves.。
So one day when they stand before the judgment of God, they will actually be exalted by God.。
Jesus is not here to condemn them right now.。
He's inviting them into that ultimate reality.。
I do want to exalt you, my friends, but first you do have to humble yourself in this life。
so that one day when I meet you in that final judgment, I can exalt you.。
And as Christians, I'm sure we've all heard about the virtue of humility, but this is。
a tricky part, church.。
I struggled with that myself as well in my life.。
If we spend the rest of our lives trying to be humble, trying to do or say all sorts of。
things to look humble, to sound humble, and at the end of the day, we go home, we look。
at ourselves and say, "Oh, I'm such a humble person today.。
When I talk to Pastor Tim, oh, I was so humble just now.。
Oh, when I talk to my friend, oh, I'm such a nice guy.。
I finally achieved humility."。
Oh, so good, right?。
That's the voice of pride speaking, right?。
And so let me do read you a paragraph from C.S. Lewis.。
He says this, "Do not imagine that if you meet a really humble man, he will be what。
most people call humble nowadays.。
He will not be sort of greasy, you know, swarmy person who is always telling you that, of。
course, he's nobody.。
He's not going to say that to you.。
Probably all you will think about him is that he seemed a cheerful, intelligent chap who。
took a real interest in what you said to him.。
If you do dislike him, it will be because you feel a little bit envious of anyone who。
seems to enjoy life so easily.。
He will not be thinking about humility.。
Well, in fact, he will not be thinking about himself at all."。
Okay, if anyone, if you need to take picture, do it now.。
I'm going to move on.。
And there's another pastor, Pastor Rick Warren, he said something quite similar, which is。
complimentary to what I read just now.。
He said, "Humility is not thinking less of yourself.。
It is thinking of yourself less.。
Humility is thinking more of others.。
Humble people are so focused on serving others, they don't think of themselves."。
And so you see, here's the problem with the Pharisees.。
Yes, they've been trying to obey the law.。
They've been trying to fulfill all these requirements, but their focus was still on themselves.。
They thought about themselves too much.。
If we focus solely on ourselves, our pursuit of righteousness will eventually turn into。
self-righteousness.。
Let me say that again.。
If we focus solely on ourselves, our pursuit of righteousness will inevitably lead to self-righteousness.。
I don't know what motivates us to read the Bible, to come to church on a Sunday, to sing。
those worship songs, to behave like a Christian every day.。
But if we are doing that for ourselves, if we're trying to make ourselves feel better,。
that I'm a Christian, so I'm better than, "Oh, that person sitting next to me at work,。
he's not a Christian.。
He has all these bad habits in life.。
I'm a better man than him, and I'm sorry."。
Our pursuit of righteousness will just turn us into another self-righteous person.。
So Jesus actually offered the antidote to pride in the following.。
In the next story, he reads that, "When you give a luncheon or dinner, do not invite your。
friends, your brothers or sisters, your relatives, your rich neighbors.。
If you do, they may invite you back so you will be repaid.。
But when you give a banquet, invite the poor, the cripple, the lame, the blind, and you。
will be blessed.。
Although they cannot repay you, but you will be repaid at the resurrection of the righteous."。
So we got to think about others, those around us.。
If you can give without expecting anything in return, not even how much praise you will。
receive because of that.。
If I'm buying someone dinner, and I'm expecting that person to go around, "Oh, you know Chapman。
bought me dinner last night.。
He's just such a nice person."。
That's what you're getting in return.。
That doesn't count if you do it for nothing in return, and you just focus on meeting the。
needs of others around you, serving them wholeheartedly.。
That's humility in God's eyes.。
I remember a couple of years ago, before we have this church here in Yuen Long, me, Pastor。
Ivan, Pastor Tim, we were all part of the Wan Chai pastoral staff.。
And so we work in Wan Chai every Sunday.。
I remember there was this particular service one Sunday.。
Halfway through the service, the preacher has already been preaching, speaking on the。
stage.。
And there was a person walking through the door, slowly moving towards the front of the。
stage to the front row.。
And I can assure you, most of the time in Wan Chai, well, like our English services,。
the whole church is just very packed.。
There's no seat at all, but he was walking on the front row.。
And later I found out he might have a little bit of special needs.。
And as the staff on the roster, when I saw that, my first response is, "Oh my gosh, he's。
disturbing the service.。
I got to do something.。
Maybe I should bring him somewhere else.。
Maybe I should put him to the back."。
I was running all these different scenarios.。
How should I react?。
But luckily, or unluckily, I was actually on the balcony.。
I was so far away from that.。
So I was just mentally, what should I do?。
What would I do if I'm down there in the lower house?。
While I was still thinking about all these, that day, Pastor John, our founding pastor,。
he was actually there in the service.。
And he was sitting in the front seat, right in the middle on the first row.。
So the next moment, what I saw was, as the guy was walking alongside, I saw that John。
actually stood up, gently escorting that man to his seat, and he quietly walked towards。
the back for the rest of the service.。
And I was watching on the balcony.。
I was telling myself, "He is the founding pastor.。
If there's one man who deserves to remain in his seat, that would be John."。
And he taught me a lesson that day.。
I look at John, I saw what he did, and I was telling myself, "Man, I hope one day when。
I am his age, I could do the same."。
In my heart, it's not filled with entitlement.。
Well, I'm somebody, somebody, that somebody else should move away from their seats.。
I should be here.。
Somebody should be giving me their seats, not the other way around.。
I hope one day when I reach there, I could still do that.。
I think sometimes we do feel we're entitled to some things because of how much effort。
we put into something of our expertise, how good or how much good we've done, and we thought。
we're entitled to something.。
Humility is not thinking less of yourself, not thinking, "Oh, I don't deserve to be seated。
here."。
It's not like that.。
Humility is not thinking less of yourself.。
Humility is simply thinking of yourself less.。
Think about others.。
I'm wondering today if you have a seat, who can you give that seat to?。
Who would you give up that seat for?。
Is it only someone whom you think is more superior than you, have a high status than。
you, have a better reputation than you, older than you, look better than you, or you're。
just going to give it to someone who is in need?。
What do we want to be known for as a church in our city?。
The Pharisee loves places of honor at feasts and best seats in the synagogue.。
How about us?。
Do we or can we do the opposite by giving the seats to other people, the best seats。
to different people?。
Can we act in a way that communicates to those around us that we think they are more important?。
Can we ask God to bring us to a place where we think of ourselves less and think of others。
more?。
That's my prayer for myself.。
That's my prayer for my church family.。
I do think that there is a gap between what our faith stands for and what we're known。
for in the city right now.。
I do think that gap exists.。
My prayer, my desire is to see that the church will have a better reputation here.。
But as the evangelist Moody, he says this, "If I take care of my character, my reputation。
will take care of itself."。
I do think we need to close that gap, but that gap is not reputation.。
That gap indeed is character.。
What our faith stands for and how we behave, what we're known for, can we close that gap?。
And don't do it by our own power and don't come one day, "Oh, I finally closed that gap.。
I've done it."。
Let's just think of ourselves less.。
Let's think of those around us, those in the city, more in our everyday life.。
I care deeply about the reputation of our church and the church in our city, in our。
world.。
And we don't need better marketing.。
We don't need better branding.。
We just need to work on our character.。
And I need to work on my character.。
And I believe as we start to do that, as we invite the Holy Spirit into our hearts, as。
we work on our character, I believe our reputation will start to work on itself.。
My dream is that somewhere in the future, maybe the next generation, when my daughters。
get to go into movies, when their portrayal of Christian characters in those movie, those。
characters are not known for being legalistic or self-righteous or hypocritic.。
They will be known for how they long to sacrifice for other people.。
They will be known for their service for other people.。
I long for the day that this is how the world will see what they will see in us.。
And this, we cannot control how other people see us right now.。
We cannot control how they perceive us because of the past, but we can start today.。
We can decide how they will see us tomorrow.。
And I think as we draw close to a parable series, as God is calling us into his kingdom,。
you understand what it means?。
My prayer is that by understanding the parable of Jesus, by understanding his heart a little。
bit more, by understanding how he wants to run his kingdom, we will start to manifest。
that kingdom in Yuen Long and in our city.。
If you want to be part of that, can I invite you to stand and pray?。
Holy Spirit, I thank you.。
You always come and pour out God's love into our hearts, come and heal our wounds, come。
and embrace us, come and draw near to us so that we could feel secure, we could feel loved.。
I thank you for that.。
But Jesus also mentioned that you would come into our hearts and point us into the word。
of God.。
You would bring us into truth and you would transform our character so that we look more。
like Jesus.。
And that's what I'm praying for right now, Holy Spirit.。
Come, come and fill us.。
Come and fill the body of Jesus in this room right now.。
God, I don't pray that we, by our effort, we would close that gap between our reputation。
and what our faith actually stands for, but I do pray that we can close that gap between。
your word and the reality of our heart and our character right now.。
I pray that you would come and close that gap, that you would come and grow us.。
We pray that we would be a community that really grow big people, people who demonstrate。
the character of Jesus, who shows the mercy, who shows the love, who shows the servant。
heart of Jesus in our city.。
I pray that if there are strongholds in our hearts, if there are things that are hindering。
us from moving in that direction, I pray that by the power of resurrection right now, you。
would come and destroy those strongholds in our life and you would take every thought。
of us captive right now.。
I pray that we could align our hearts with yours today once again, Lord.。
Come and fill us.。
Come and fill us up, Lord.。
We need your grace.。
We need your mercy.。
We need your encouragement.。
We need you to come and be that fire inside of us.。
Keep burning inside of us until our hearts fully burn for Jesus and we only live for。
him.。
So come, Lord.。
Lord.。
