He has a special gift and talent to bringing people around him。
and just to make people feel so welcomed。
when they're with him, hanging out with him.。
So, really blessed to have Leslie speaking in the front。
and welcoming everyone in today.。
So, many of you know that I used to be a teacher.。
So, I'm going to give you a test and ask you a question.。
One day, a student gave me this during class.。
Ta-da!。
And why? Why did they give this to me?。
So, let's see if you can figure it out.。
A. They used it and want me to throw it away for them.。
Happens all the time. Is it the case?。
B. They found it on the floor, didn't know whose it was。
and wanted me to help find the owner.。
Every little thing is precious to them. So is this one.。
C. It was something they made as a gift for me.。
A, B and C. All of them happened in class.。
What about this one?。
Who thinks it is A?。
Yep, yep. Happens all the time.。
What about B?。
No. C?。
You are right. Let's give yourself a big hand.。
This time, it was C.。
So, as I was teaching writing,。
I'm trying to get them to write a whole piece of letter, right?。
And then in the middle of it, a child came up to me and go,。
"Ms. Chan, I'm going to give you this."。
I go, "Why? Why?"。
And then the girl sitting next to her said,。
"Oh, because she made it all lesson.。
"She used the whole lesson just to make this。
"and wanted to give it to you."。
And I asked her, "What is it?"。
Ladies and gentlemen, this is a mop.。
This is a mop.。
So, well done. Well done. Thank you for the effort.。
But I'm so thankful that she cared for me so much.。
But could you not do this in the middle of class?。
Not when I'm trying to get through something, right?。
But this is how kids are.。
They seem to have a sensor that they sense that you are in a hurry。
and you want to do something,。
and they want to do something opposite.。
You want to get them out of the house, they want to pee.。
I hear a loud "mm."。
When you want them to go wash, to go shower,。
they want to read a book.。
When you want them to be out of the shower, they say no.。
This is how kids are.。
They are very creative, they are very impulsive,。
and they have a special energy around them.。
And so working with them takes a strong heart, you know?。
Because they look so cute on the outside,。
they're cute on the inside too, just to say.。
But they are very direct.。
When they don't want to hang out with you, they just say no.。
Sometimes they just forgot to say no,。
and they just turn and run away.。
And you still have to smile because you can't be too mean to kids.。
I try not to be too mean to kids sometimes, right?。
And so, but God actually, through a lot of His passage,。
and a lot of His sermon,。
tells us that we need to value them because God values them.。
Kids are so direct and so impulsive,。
but Jesus often used the qualities of children。
to remind us to be more like Him.。
He taught us not to look down on any child。
because God values them deeply,。
even revealing the secrets of His kingdom to them.。
For example, whoever welcomes one of these little children。
in My name welcomes Me,。
and whoever welcomes Me does not welcome Me,。
but the one who sent Me.。
See that you do not despise one of these little ones,。
for I tell you that there are angels in heaven。
always see the face of My Father in heaven.。
At that time Jesus said,。
"I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth,。
because you have hidden these things from the wise and learned。
and revealed them to little children."。
So as the series emphasized,。
when we are called to be a church that is multi-ethnic,。
multicultural, and intergenerational,。
a church that truly lives out God's unity,。
how do we walk with children?。
When Jesus repeatedly tells us to learn from children,。
and even says anyone who will not receive the kingdom of God。
like a little child will never enter it,。
then what kind of community should we be?。
So that instead of suppressing。
the unique qualities of our children,。
we actually are embracing and learning from them.。
Today our scripture comes from Mark 10, 13 to 16.。
In verse 13 to 14 it says,。
"People were bringing little children to Jesus for Him。
to place His hand on them,。
but the disciples rebuked them.。
When Jesus saw this, He was indignant."。
This indignant emotion was not simply like,。
"Oh, my father, I broke my father's fast,"。
or "I broke my father's fast," she was indignant.。
It was not that simple.。
Actually, in the original Greek, it's a much stronger word.。
It means extremely displeased.。
This word is rarely used in the New Testament.。
It is one of the strongest terms to describe Jesus' emotion.。
According to scholars like R.T. Franz and Greg Evans。
in the original language,。
this word is typically used to describe righteous anger。
when justice is violated or God's will is being ignored.。
This story, seemingly like a very simple story,。
someone approached Jesus when He's teaching。
and then the disciples say,。
"Shh, don't come, don't come right now."。
Jesus was indignant.。
The culture of the kingdom culture。
and God's justice was being violated.。
What happened there?。
What is there for us to learn?。
This isn't just some any ordinary disappointment.。
This actually is a deep sensitivity to God's heart.。
And you see this kind of emotion in the New Testament,。
also at Lazarus' tomb,。
when Jesus sees the devastation death has brought into humanity.。
And in Gethsemane, when God's heart...。
when Jesus is deeply grieved by the disciples' weakness,。
it's closely related to God's love, justice, and mercy.。
It's a righteous anger when God's heart。
and the culture of God's kingdom are being violated.。
So what aspect of the kingdom culture did the disciples violate?。
First, the disciples thought they could be gatekeepers for the Lord,。
deciding who was worthy to receive blessing and who's not.。
So in Jesus' time, it was a tradition。
where fathers would bring their children to the local synagogue。
and there the synagogue elders and the fathers。
would pray a blessing over the little children.。
Now the people bringing their children to Jesus,。
they were simply wanting to continue this tradition of blessing,。
except this time that they want Jesus to do the blessing directly.。
But the important point this time。
was not about people bringing children to Jesus.。
It's actually more about the disciples' reaction.。
The text said the disciples rebuked them.。
And we have to ask, why did the disciples rebuke them?。
Didn't the disciples, didn't the people want children to be blessed?。
In Romans' law and culture at that time, children have very low status.。
Very different from now where we like or try to provide。
all the things that we could for the baby.。
We want the best for them.。
We put a lot of emphasis and attention to our little children.。
But at that time, children's status were low.。
Why? Because they couldn't bring anything to the table right now.。
They couldn't help with the family right now.。
There's nothing that they could do right now.。
And so the children up to age 14 has a very low status.。
The father has a total authority over the children, even life and death.。
Children have no independent legal rights.。
And most of the time, they were only valued。
for what they might contribute in the future.。
This mindset deeply influenced how society and individuals see value.。
Meanwhile, Jesus was in the middle of teaching。
and the Pharisees were present, challenging him with questions。
and asking him about the law.。
The disciples saw that Jesus was doing something important.。
How could Jesus' work be interrupted at that moment?。
So, according to their own thinking and judgment,。
the disciples put up a barrier,。
dividing the people into those who can approach Jesus。
and those who could not.。
In doing so, they're actually creating a spiritual hierarchy。
between assuming that adults have more qualification。
than children to approach Jesus.。
Maybe sometimes with the children ourselves,。
we felt that, "Oh, I don't really understand that."。
Or people think that, "Oh, they don't really understand that."。
Let them come to this event next time.。
When they're ready, they can come.。
We're actually assuming what they know or what they are。
according to our judgment and our value,。
and we are creating barriers.。
But in God's kingdom, there's no place for hierarchy.。
There's no place for barrier.。
No one is higher or lower than one another.。
So the disciples' reaction is like a mirror,。
reflecting the choices that we make in our heart。
about what we consider is important,。
about knowledge, and about relationship.。
The Pharisees are important, so the children can't come.。
Knowledge is more important, so blessings can wait.。
When can they come?。
Only when they're old enough to understand.。
When they grow up, then they can come.。
We often hear that very positive children is our future,。
as if their value only lies in what they might become.。
But Jesus see them as valuable now.。
Though children may not serve in obvious way,。
but their presence, their faith, and their service。
is just as important as any adults.。
I know that I need to work on my patience.。
I know that from a long time ago in the invention of WhatsApp.。
In WhatsApp, you send a message,。
and I expect that to be replied within three hours.。
Well, it's been a few hours.。
You need to--you have seen it.。
You should reply to me.。
But I realized that my impatience。
was actually my self-centeredness.。
I want things to happen in my way according to my time,。
and I did not think about any other people.。
And so I really prayed to God and said,。
"God, I really want to--。
I want you to bless me with patience.。
I want you to bless me with gentleness."。
And he did through a student.。
So actually, the student is in primary four.。
He has a mild case of autistic traits。
so that when during primary one to primary three,。
they have the same class, they have the same classmate,。
they have the same class teachers.。
But in primary four, everything changed for him.。
New classmate, new class teacher.。
So he really couldn't handle it.。
What would he do?。
He would throw things across the class.。
He would scrunch up my worksheet。
and just threw it across the classroom。
and say, "I don't want to do this."。
He would spat at teachers and at kids.。
He would shoot rubber bands,。
and he would violently, forcefully。
shake his desk and chairs,。
hurting himself and even others.。
So myself and the social workers are always on call.。
If anything happened during subject lessons,。
we are there to help take him away.。
But what makes it challenging。
is that you can't break through his stubbornness。
through lecturing him, through telling him what to think,。
because he couldn't process any, you know,。
discussion and reasoning.。
The only way that you can work with him at that time。
was through patience and gentleness.。
And more patience and more patience。
while you're still holding a boundary until you have none,。
and then you need to give some more.。
At the end of the year,。
we finally found a way that we can work with each other.。
But I realized that not only this incident has helped me,。
actually, I was on the verge of breakdown as well,。
every single day, with the workload and with everything,。
but I realized that God was using this child。
to answer my prayer.。
He did not use this child's intelligence。
or inspirational speech or his pure heart to change me.。
No, he used his whole life, the kid's life,。
to impact my life.。
There's nothing wrong with him,。
and there's nothing wrong with me,。
but as life collides,。
sparks came out and we're able to affect one another.。
And I think that's the beauty of working with children,。
because they're so unknown,。
because God has created them so beautifully。
that when we open our lives to them,。
they actually inspire me and help me in such a powerful way.。
And it's not just him.。
Every single child that I've met,。
whether it was, has influenced me,。
maybe it's their encouragement,。
maybe it's their cooperation,。
maybe sometimes they are not cooperating。
or they are not encouraging,。
but whenever I worked with them,。
they triggered reflection in my head.。
And I go, "Why did I respond that way?。
What happened to me just then?。
Why was I feeling that?"。
And in so, my life was changed.。
And that was often seen in K4C,。
where we would open up a space for kids to encounter Jesus。
and listen to His Word.。
And they would actually hear God。
and encourage me in that way.。
So I'd like to share two videos with you today.。
Let's have a look.。
So in class today, we read Psalm 23。
and God spoke to some students.。
So Derek, would you like to share with us。
what did God tell you?。
So the sentence from Psalm 23,。
"He gives me everything I need,"。
is like a situation that I really need help for.。
And I think God would give me a solution for it.。
Awesome. Thank you so much, Derek.。
So Adelina, what did God tell you today?。
That He gives me strength。
and that He will guide me through everything that I need.。
That He will guide me through the things that are hard for me.。
That He will understand what I go through.。
Thank you so much.。
Let's give a big hand to those children.。
(audience applauding)。
I needed that word at that time.。
I needed God to remind me that God will provide for me,。
that God is my Savior.。
I didn't teach them anything,。
so they came up with these reflection.。
I just opened up a space for them,。
helping them to connect to Jesus。
and Jesus will speak to them.。
The Holy Spirit inside the children。
are not baby Holy Spirits.。
There are no baby Holy Spirits.。
The Holy Spirit that you and I receive。
is the same as the children receive.。
When we connect them to Jesus,。
when we allow them to listen to the Holy Spirit,。
God will talk to them and we listen.。
And so God didn't wait for these children to grow up,。
to be knowledgeable or capable。
before using them to change our communities.。
God used children in the present to accomplish His works.。
Our children are not just our future.。
They are part of our present.。
God uses each of us as part of the body of Christ。
to serve one another.。
And He's also using our little ones。
to serve every one of us here.。
The unity of church isn't just about adults,。
but the unity across ages, background, and abilities。
where everyone can be seen, heard, and blessed.。
After Jesus rebuked the disciples,。
He continued speaking.。
In verse 14 to 15, it says,。
"Let the little children come to me and do not hinder them.。
For the kingdom of God belongs to such as these.。
Truly I tell you,。
anyone who will not receive the kingdom of God。
like a little child will never enter it."。
God isn't talking to the parents and say,。
"Don't worry about them. Let them come. Let them come."。
He's actually talking to the disciples,。
telling them, "Don't hinder them."。
This is not--oh, hang on.。
"Just bring your little children here."。
Jesus was speaking very directly to His disciples.。
He was saying, "Why are you blocking them from coming to me?。
Don't you see that the people who enter my kingdom。
must be like these little children?"。
When you hear the phrase "become like children,"。
what comes to your mind?。
Their cuteness?。
That's too bad. I'm too late for that.。
Their innocence?。
But Paul also said, "When I become an adult,。
I put away childish things."。
So if God's message was, "Be like a child."。
If you don't get what you want, just throw a tantrum。
and do whatever you want and don't care about consequences.。
Then imagine heaven having a group of adults。
throwing tantrums on the floor.。
That doesn't really work.。
But I believe that when Jesus talks about。
having childlike faith,。
He is pointing to two important qualities.。
First, children need help.。
At the core of Christian faith is to admit that。
before God, we are completely helpless.。
We don't have the strength to always do what is right。
or know what is right.。
We are living in a very confusing world right now。
where everyone has a voice to speak about different things.。
Everything is impossible.。
And as a parent or as an adult or just a person。
trying to live in the world,。
it is hard and we are helpless in that way.。
Or we do not have the spiritual power。
to live a perfect and disciplined life.。
Our emotions aren't always mature。
and we can't always be able to respond to others。
with love and compassion.。
The truth is, on our own,。
we simply can't live the true Christian life.。
Just like a newborn baby。
who can't survive without someone to care for them,。
we can't survive living in this world without God.。
We are helpless before God.。
So real faith means recognizing our helplessness。
and giving up trying to do everything by our own strength。
and resting fully in God's arms.。
The second quality, children are dependent.。
Since we're helpless, we must rely completely on God.。
The Lord is our provider.。
Everything in our lives, both now and forever,。
comes from His grace and His provision.。
You think about that.。
When I was in school and I was thinking about the promotion。
or getting this and that,。
I realized at that moment that I was able to get that job。
not because I backed for it,。
not because of the qualities that I think I have on my resume.。
It was because God has opened doors for me。
and letting me to be in this position.。
When I think about living in this world。
and I worry about finance。
and I think about all the things I need to take care of,。
at the end of the day, who puts bread on my table?。
At the end of the day, what door opened?。
What people did I meet that I'm able to do what I'm doing now?。
It's not through my striving.。
It was totally and completely on God's grace and provision.。
And so to enter God's kingdom,。
we must become like children to omit our helplessness。
and to learn to depend on Him.。
And this is how truly we inherit God's kingdom。
and experience abundance life.。
And the way children serve among us。
is not just about moving tables or making coffees。
or playing the guitar or the drums,。
but rather, every time we serve them,。
it reminds us that we too can ask for help.。
We too can be the little children who said,。
"I can't do this, God. I need your help.。
I don't know how to respond to that.。
You need to help me. I rely on you to help me."。
Whenever the children can't do something,。
they let us know and we should do the same。
and let God know that I feel frustrated right now.。
I know that you've placed this purpose, this task in my heart,。
but I failed. I screwed up. I was impatient.。
God, please come and help me.。
This relationship is what gets us into the kingdom of God。
because the kingdom of God is not by our own strength,。
but knowing that Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life.。
Children in our midst are indispensable.。
It's not about saying, "All right, we can bring you along.。
Just keep up and hurry."。
Or, you know, somehow, sometimes you see parents。
taking the hand of the children.。
Very sweet, very protective, very nice, right?。
But they're actually dragging the children.。
Not a way of protection, but just hurry up and get there.。
We're not supposed to walk with our children that way.。
They are slower. They need our help.。
But perhaps what we really need is for them to slow us down,。
to remind us that we are not a community just to get things done,。
but we are a community to become family together.。
Let me say this again.。
Perhaps what we really need is for them to slow us down,。
to remind us that we're not a community of just to get things done,。
but a community for becoming family together.。
We need time to grow as a family.。
We need to look out for each other like a family.。
We need to work hard to be inclusive in a family,。
to see, to love, and to connect.。
So what does Jesus call us to do as a community?。
What does it really mean to let the little children come to me。
and to not hinder them?。
If the disciples' original mistakes was to let their own way of thinking。
and standard to decide who was worthy to come near Jesus,。
now Jesus is saying to them, "I want you to let me。
and these children connect directly without barriers."。
Back in the day, I used to have people to come and observe my class,。
you know, for appraisal and many other different things, right?。
My class was actually okay.。
You know, the things that I planned should work out okay.。
But the biggest unknown are the children.。
When strangers come, when they see something different,。
they either get really, really happy and joyful and wanted to perform.。
There's this one time when I was being observed in my Primary 1 class,。
the principal came in and the girl wants to sing to her in my class.。
Or they could either respond very passively and very scared。
and very shy and very self-conscious.。
So I will be teaching the same class, but they will have no response。
as if I've never taught them anything.。
I mean, like, come on, this is my peers, this is a peer observation.。
You are not answering any questions.。
I've taught you something, remember?。
They don't, they don't.。
But that's...so before lesson observation, this is what I always do.。
To the really cute little class, I would say, "Please try to calm down.。
There will be someone coming in.。
Calm down.。
If you have questions, try to hold it,。
like you're holding yourself to the toilet, just hold it."。
Or I would pre-teach them a little something。
so that they won't totally don't know what I'm doing。
and not be responsive at all.。
But isn't it sometimes it's like that for us as well?。
We are trying to be good.。
We're trying to fix ourselves before we go to Jesus.。
We're trying to say, "Oh, I haven't learned enough.。
Let me learn more so I can pray for others.。
Oh, I haven't prayed enough.。
Let me pray more before I pray for other people.。
Oh, I haven't fixed myself yet.。
I am so self-conscious about who I am right now."。
God isn't saying, "Let those well-behaved come to me."。
He is not saying, "Let those who can memorize Bible verses come to me."。
He's saying, "Just come.。
Just come. Come as you are."。
No matter they are little kids or older kids。
or ourselves right now, we do not have to pretend.。
We do not need to live another life before we approach our Jesus。
because Jesus said, "Just come."。
And that is not just a calling for parents.。
It's a calling for all of us as His disciples.。
Like the Proverbs that says,。
"It takes a whole village to raise a child."。
The spiritual growth of child, of children,。
isn't just the responsibility of parents,。
but the whole community, the whole church,。
how we walk with each child and the family.。
And that's why we have baby dedication ceremonies.。
It is our collective response.。
Through this ritual, we bring each child before the Lord together.。
Many of you actually have been through one of these baby dedications before, right?。
Do you remember what you have promised?。
So we're going to have a look and see what does it mean for the church,。
for the parents, ourselves to respond to the calling of walking with children together.。
So to the parents, we have asked them a series of questions.。
Can we have the slide, the next slide? Yes.。
Are you willing to let the kids grow up in God's unconditional love?。
It is hard when we haven't experienced unconditional love ourselves when we were growing up.。
But are we willing to try to work on ourselves and go,。
"Hey, this is unconditional love. What is it? How can I work towards that for my child?"。
Will you do your best to teach the kids the right path to walk?。
But most importantly, in the community,。
are we willing to let others to do that for us as well?。
I've been in a school situation where two kids were fighting while actually one is hitting the other.。
The kid A said, "Yes, I did it. I'm so sorry."。
You call the parents and the parents said, "Oh, you made him admit that he was doing wrong."。
And it was in such an opposition that it was hard for me to work with the parents and go,。
"Hey, actually, we're just trying to bring up the children together."。
We are actually in a cooperation way to work together.。
So as parents, I know that there are different styles of understanding.。
But are we willing to open our hearts and try to put ourselves in the village?。
We can't live in a village unless we admit that we are in one.。
So it is a thinker. It doesn't mean that we have to do all of that, by the way.。
We just talked about we're helpless.。
We are. As a parent, we are.。
As a member of the church family, we are also helpless.。
How do we work towards that?。
Thirdly, will you teach the kids about Jesus Christ and His love for them and for all people?。
And will you pray for the kids that they would become a child God can use for His glory?。
They are all very big questions.。
And this responsibility doesn't just rest on you.。
Be in the village. Open up and see how we as a church can walk together and build this up together.。
But what about the others, the rest, to the follower of Jesus Christ?。
Are you willing to commit to supporting these parents in raising their child?。
I understand talking to children is not everyone's forte.。
Kids have their own energy and their own way of saying and thinking.。
But I would encourage you to talk to the parents and ask them,。
"What can I do for you today? How are you doing?"。
And often as I ask these questions, they will tell me,。
"Oh, actually, I just need someone to keep an eye on him while I rehearse for worship."。
Maybe it's just, "Oh, I need to go to this training or that training, and I just need to get lunch for my kid."。
These are some of the support we can do.。
It's not always about children, but actually it's the family that needs support.。
Spend some time. Be their friend. Be their friend.。
Sometimes a parent needs conversation outside of child-rearing.。
Can I get an amen for that?。
We need to have conversation with friends to make us feel like human again.。
That's what I feel like when I was a teacher.。
I don't always just want to talk about teaching stuff.。
I have other interests. I have other joy and passion as well.。
Be our friend and ask us what we need support with.。
Let's have to look at the next question.。
Will you be patient, listen to them, and help them when needed?。
I am so happy. I'm so grateful for myself as well.。
Well done, June, that we were actually a very patient church,。
that we recognize that there are children in our midst,。
and they do cry, and they need to all recognize their own emotions.。
And we're okay, and we give time and space for them.。
And I think we can continue on and ask ourselves,。
how can I grow from there?。
What else can I do to support the children when they have needs?。
Or how can I support the family?。
Can I be more patient to the families that have children, right?。
And also, the third one, will you also strive, us all,。
to be a model of Christ's love,。
so that the kids can grow up in an environment and community。
that always points them to their creation?。
Our vision for K4C is just what today's scripture described.。
It is a place where we remove all the barriers,。
and we connect the children to God.。
And we want to do that, not only connecting them to God.。
The vision for our kids' ministry here is to connect them to God,。
to their peers, because they will grow up together,。
and they will walk together, but also to you guys.。
My volunteers, the lesson plan that I designed,。
always ask them to share their own stories,。
because I want kids to know that。
being a Christian is not easy.。
It has challenges.。
And while you share your stories,。
they get to see what a real Christian looks like.。
That it is challenging, we fail, we are discouraged,。
but God always loves us.。
God will always help us.。
And through these stories,。
they get to know that there are people who love them.。
There are people in this community that they know.。
When they grow up and they start to rebel against their parents,。
because we all do that,。
they know that they can go to you for help if they need.。
And so, are you willing to open up yourself,。
and just to get to know the family,。
and get to know the kids, and share your stories with them,。
so that they grow up to be a person,。
to be in an environment and a community。
that will always point them to Jesus?。
Serving in K4C is not the only way,。
although it is the most direct way.。
And I really want to say thank you to all the K4C。
teachers and assistants,。
and people who have been serving in all the Kids Ministry events.。
I just really want you to give them a big hand.。
I am truly so grateful and so honored to work with these people.。
Each of the teachers and assistants。
really put in all their time, a lot of their time and energy。
into serving the children, into getting to know the Scripture.。
Every month, they would have to leave this hall。
where we can sit and enjoy and bring and bask in God's Word.。
And they go in and share God's Word.。
I remember a time when I was teaching the Bubbles class,。
the kindergarten class.。
There was one sermon where I was talking about。
Jesus healing the blind.。
And God spoke to me that day about God giving me an identity.。
And it was in those moments that I realized that。
when we're sitting here and we enjoy being in God's presence,。
the teacher and assistants there,。
God is using, they're speaking through them to the children.。
And I hope that if you are inspired,。
that you have an urge to do a little bit,。
feel free to let me know.。
But serving in K4C is not the only way。
that we can work with children together in this church.。
As I've said before, getting to know the families,。
supporting them, listening to them,。
is actually a great way and very important way。
to get to know the kids and to support the kids' ministry as well.。
And K4C needs your prayer.。
Our children need your prayer.。
Our family needs your prayer.。
So right now, I'd like the worship team to come up.。
And I'd like all of you to find two or three people around you.。
Or you can pray on your own,。
but I would love you to find two or three people。
to pray for K4C, our kids' ministry, and our children right now.。
So get connected.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
