So, what I'm about to say, I have a disclaimer,。
I have the approval to say this.。
At least I told her I'm gonna say this.。
At least she heard it in Chinese already.。
So, my wife is really Wonder Woman.。
Because every day, at least three times or two times,。
she would ask, "I wonder where my phone is?"。
So, yeah, every day, like a couple of times.。
And I guess one of the things that we bonded over。
was actually forgetfulness.。
If you know me, some of you, you're visiting。
or you're new here, I have ADHD.。
So, one of the hallmark of people with ADHD,。
it's forgetfulness.。
On top of that, it's how messy my life could be.。
My desk, my room, my house.。
Well, thankfully, my wife is here to tidy up.。
But my life is quite messy.。
When my messiness, it's coupled with my forgetfulness,。
that results in only one thing.。
I always misplace my stuff.。
I always couldn't find them.。
So, before I moved, before I got married,。
my sister is here, so she would know.。
I'm constantly running around the house,。
finding, "Oh, where are my stuff?。
"Where are my stuff?。
"Where did something go?"。
But there was a period in my time, about a couple years ago,。
before I moved, before I got married,。
there was a period in my life。
where I would be looking for something。
and then I would be praying,。
"Okay, God, I don't know where my stuff went."。
And then, shortly, I would have this revelation.。
Sometimes it's like a picture in my head,。
where to look for it.。
Sometimes it's this idea God just dropped in my head.。
And so, I will find it.。
So, there was one day I was, again,。
looking for my misplaced item.。
And I was just looking everywhere,。
in drawers, in boxes, or bags,。
and I've been looking everywhere,。
like I leave no stone unturned,。
that kind of desperate situation.。
And I could hear this voice in my head saying,。
"Why don't you just pray?。
"You're just one prayer away from finding it."。
But, you know, I'm a huge fan of Sherlock Holmes.。
(audience laughing)。
So, I am a little detective,。
like there's this detective inside of me.。
So, I was like, "No, I wanna try and find it by myself。
"because I have this detective spirit inside of me."。
So, I've been looking in different areas in my house.。
I think in the process, I made my house even more messy.。
Sorry to my family.。
And after a while, I was so exhausted.。
It's not just physically exhausted,。
it's the mental kind of exhaustion.。
I'm like, "I thought I could, I looked everywhere,。
"every place I could think of,。
"I tried to look and I couldn't find it."。
So, I was super exhausted.。
When I'm exhausted, I decide to go for a nap,。
or at least just lie down and rest.。
So, I walked to my bedroom,。
I was about to lie down on my bed,。
and as I was doing so, I was just, you know,。
mentally like praying in my head,。
"Okay, God, if you know where it is, please tell me."。
And I was lying down, and boom, literally,。
before my body hit the bed,。
there's this idea dropped into my head.。
Oh, there's this particular bag, this backpack,。
and in the front pocket of the backpack,。
have you looked there?。
This idea literally hit my head.。
I'm like, "No way, I barely, like,。
"my body barely hit the bed and I have to get up again."。
Like, those dance moves, you know?。
No, I can't do it, sorry.。
And then, so I went to the back,。
opened the front pocket, reached deeply, you know, inside,。
and ta-da, there it is.。
I found what I was looking for.。
So, to say the least, when it comes to lost and found,。
prayer has always been my last resort.。
I thought, "Come on, I can do it myself.。
"I'm a detective, I'm like Sherlock Holmes,。
"you know, I can handle it myself.。
"God, I got it, just let me find it, I can handle it."。
You okay?。
It's kind of like my daughters, you know,。
when it comes to buttoning their shirt, you know,。
or opening a bottle, or reaching something。
pretty high on the shelf,。
as long as they think they have the ability。
to do it themselves,。
daddy will always be the last resort.。
Right?。
Yeah, you're laughing, of course, you know, right?。
Yeah.。
So, whatever it is, daddy is always the last person。
she would come to because they think,。
"I can do it by myself."。
And if we zoom in a little bit on this idea,。
or on this mentality,。
and we see that at the core of this motivation,。
where it says, "I can do it, I wanna do it by myself,"。
this is the idea of competence.。
That I have the ability to get certain things done.。
And the drive for competence isn't, you know,。
inherently bad.。
You know, we learn stuff as a kid,。
as a fundamental human longing,。
that, you know, from childhood,。
we learn new languages, we master new skills,。
we learn to walk,。
and we learn to solve puzzles or other problems.。
It's because that this feeling,。
I wanna be able to do it,。
I wanna feel competent inside of me.。
The desire to master a new skill,。
or overcome challenges,。
it's deep within us,。
and it's not a bad thing at all.。
But, you know, when this natural desire,。
it's slowly, or a natural desire for competence,。
when it becomes an all-consuming idol,。
when we wanna feel our worth,。
when we wanna feel, you know, our identity。
from what we can do,。
or literally, in a town, in this city,。
it would be we are what we do.。
If we tie our identity, our self-worth,。
with our competence,。
when it becomes our idol,。
that's the problem.。
That's where the problem begins.。
We would unknowingly and slowly。
push God away to the side.。
You wanna push him slightly further away。
from the center, and we say,。
"Okay, God, just stay there.。
When I need you, I'll call you, all right?。
Just stay there.。
Grab a seat at the piano there.。
Just stay there, all right?。
I'll call you later."。
We slowly push God away,。
and we will start to believe。
that our identity, our self-worth,。
it's solely tied to what we can do,。
to our achievements, to our ability,。
you know, because I can handle it.。
In other words, we live in a world。
or culture that values competence。
over dependence,。
or should I say, perceived competence.。
We thought what we could do, all right?。
I believe this little story of mine。
points to a much deeper。
and a more pervasive problem。
for many of us as Christians.。
We live in a world that worships。
at the altar of competence.。
Yeah, we believe in Jesus, we follow Jesus,。
but at the same time,。
when it comes to our self-worth,。
when it comes to our value,。
when it comes to our identity,。
we're driven by the idea of competence.。
Our older daughter,。
she is in the third year of kindergarten,。
which means our family currently,。
it's going through a season。
of primary school interview,。
primary school application,。
and we're doing all that.。
And this whole process just reminded me。
of the struggle or the dilemma。
that we're all going through,。
or we're all facing.。
We have seen the endless toil。
or that stress that our next generation,。
they have to go through,。
like doing their homework until what,。
10, 10.30, 11 p.m. at night.。
We saw how difficult it is.。
We saw how much competition。
is destroying their confidence.。
We saw all that.。
And sometimes we're so sick。
and so tired of competition in our society。
that we wanna take them out of competition.。
But then sometimes,。
as we are looking through different schools,。
as we thought,。
oh, we don't want them to go。
through so much competition,。
so why don't we take them out to a place,。
to a happy school, to somewhere,。
it will be less stressful,。
it will be less competitive.。
But then this fear,。
just this fear is so real,。
it just speaks to us,。
what if, what if because we put them。
in an environment that is less competitive,。
they will be less competent?。
That that fear is so real in our head.。
And that's why there's a saying。
that you can take people out of competition,。
but it's very hard to take competition out of people.。
It's so real.。
And we're so afraid,。
on one hand, we don't want them。
to be in a competitive environment,。
but on the other hand,。
we're so afraid that if they're not。
in a competitive environment,。
they will not be competent.。
I think that reveals something deeper inside of us,。
that we believe competition。
is the only way to competence。
and competence is the only way to success.。
I think that's the belief.。
If there's a religion in this city,。
that would be it.。
That's what we believe in the city of Hong Kong,。
or probably in the wider Asia area as well.。
In Hong Kong or in many professional cultures,。
success is defined by what we can achieve。
through our own skills,。
our own intellect and our own effort.。
We are taught and encouraged。
to project an image of achieved competence,。
not immediate dependence.。
Let me say that again.。
We are encouraged,。
we are taught to project an image,。
a self image of our achieved competence。
instead of our immediate dependence.。
You don't want people to look at you。
and think you are dependent on anyone.。
That makes you look weak.。
That makes you look incompetent.。
That makes people don't wanna hire you.。
Why do I need to hire you。
and I need to hire someone for you to depend on?。
I don't wanna hire someone like that.。
I want someone who is independent.。
I want someone who can achieve everything by themselves.。
That's the culture we're in right now.。
And this, it's called the Babylonian view of success.。
The Bible often use Babylon,。
not just to refer to a historical city。
that existed on earth.。
It is also a very powerful symbol。
for a world system or its values,。
a system characterized by self-sufficiency,。
by human achievement and a rejection of divine authority.。
From Genesis all the way to Revelation,。
Babylon represents a culture。
that prioritize its own wisdom, power,。
its own glory, often in direct opposition to God's way.。
It embodies the human tendency to build kingdoms。
based on our perceived competence,。
our wealth, our own influence,。
rather than on our humble dependence of our creator.。
That's the culture or that's the value system of Babylon.。
The Babylonian view of success。
seeps so deep into our spiritual lives.。
Let me repeat this.。
This Babylonian culture or value system,。
it's deeply rooted, not just in our work life,。
it's in our spiritual lives as well.。
We celebrate people who are self-made.。
We live by a gospel of efficiency,。
where tangible actions is always prioritized,。
celebrated over unseen act of prayer.。
We subconsciously begin to see God。
as some sort of like CEO and oh, he must be so busy.。
Oh, you know this, I have, you know, I'm competent,。
I can do it myself, don't bother him.。
Like he must be so busy,。
I better like don't go to talk to him,。
like the boss in my company.。
If I don't, you know, if I go talk to him,。
it looks like I'm incompetent, I can't finish my job,。
I need help.。
We sometimes see God like that.。
Or when he becomes a last resort,。
it's like a vending machine,。
like let me get enough change of my prayer,。
like, oh, I need to pray more.。
Okay, and God, please help me with my job.。
Oh, God, please help me with my marriage.。
Oh God, I need more peace from you.。
When he becomes a last resort,。
we come to him with that kind of transactional。
kind of prayer or kind of relationship.。
That's how we go to him.。
When we go to him, we basically, we say we're out of options.。
So God, I have gathered all my prayer coins,。
I hope I could get something from you.。
It's a transaction.。
And so, you know, for this kind of。
competent driven Christianity,。
prayer often becomes a last resort。
because we see prayer as an admission of failure.。
Let me say that again.。
Prayer is always a last resort for some of us。
because we see prayer as an admission of failure.。
Oh, I can't do it.。
All right, I try everything.。
Like I play detective, I play shout out home,。
I still can't find it.。
All right, I'm incompetent, I can't do it.。
All right, God, I fail.。
All right, now your turn.。
Tell me.。
Okay, God, now your turn.。
Fix my marriage, fix my finance, fix my job.。
Do this for me.。
Okay, I fail, so I'll let you do it.。
We see that way.。
We see prayer as an admission of failure.。
It's the white flag that we're waving。
when our strength has been exhausted,。
when our own plans fall apart,。
when our own intellect has hit a wall,。
and it's not an act of relational dependence.。
Our prayer, it's more like a distress signal,。
like SOS, like, oh, I can't do it.。
Come and help me, please, God.。
That looks more like a prayer life.。
And this tension between worldly competence。
and a heavenly dependence, it's not a modern problem.。
This tension has always existed in human history.。
And today, in fact, we could see it play out。
in the most dramatic possible way。
in the book that we've been reading, Daniel.。
We're going to look at Daniel chapter two today,。
where an entire system built on human wisdom。
comes face to face with an impossible situation。
or impossible crisis.。
All right, we're picking up from chapter two.。
All right, so it's on the screen.。
I'm not gonna read it.。
Otherwise, it will be quite long,。
but you can follow along on the screen.。
We'll pick up from the beginning of chapter two.。
Back in Babylon, this place where it's the glittering,。
powerful center of the world back then。
in 600 years before Jesus.。
So this king of this kingdom or this empire,。
King Nebuchadnezzar, he had a dream.。
And he had a dream that deeply troubled his heart.。
In the original language, that deeply troubled his heart,。
it could mean something struck his spirit.。
That's how serious it was.。
Something struck my spirit.。
My heart was troubled.。
And so he summoned his team of experts,。
his team of consultants,。
and these are the magicians, the enchanters,。
sorcerers, and astrologists.。
And I'm telling you,。
after so many years of watching Disney and Harry Potter,。
I still can't tell the difference。
between these people, what they do.。
Like, what again?。
Like magicians, enchanters, sorcerers, and astrologists.。
I thought they all mean the same thing in Harry Potter.。
I don't know.。
Maybe, maybe I haven't watched enough.。
I can't tell the difference.。
But anyway, these were not just mystics。
or primitive mystics.。
They were actually the most brilliant minds。
in the entire empire.。
They are actually the scholars of the ancient world.。
Basically, in today's term,。
these people, they are a faculty of professors,。
university level, PhDs.。
These are, wherever they are, yeah, that's who they are.。
So they were professionals。
who operated within a highly developed system.。
The king has a dream,。
and he wants the dream to be interpreted.。
So they have a very sophisticated,。
developed, well-developed system to do that.。
Their value was rooted, again, in their competence.。
They rely on this thing called a dream book.。
If you're more like from a Chinese background,。
you would know like (speaking in foreign language)。
whatever, like there's this book。
that record everything that has been, you know,。
dreams in the past, what they actually mean,。
all these symbols and the meaning.。
And so they compile a book,。
so they will tell you this is actually empirical data.。
This is statistics, you know?。
It's science, they will tell you that.。
It's a sophisticated system.。
When I talk to people nowadays who are the feng shui master,。
they say the same thing.。
This is sophisticated science based on empirical data.。
So that's what they're trying to do, right?。
Dream interpretation.。
And so this approach was procedural.。
You know, give us the data,。
tell us your raw data, that dream,。
and we'll go look up different symbols,。
different contexts, what it means,。
we'll like a dictionary,。
I just go and find out what it means,。
and then I'll bring you a completed,。
integrated kind of like interpretation。
and meaning for your dream.。
That's how the system works.。
But we can see that if that's the process,。
that's the whole thing of dream interpretation,。
that means the entire system。
was actually built on beliefs。
that with enough human knowledge。
and the right methodology,。
any problem could be solved in this world,。
much like what we're doing today, I guess.。
This was the Babylonian system of values,。
that human competence is king.。
Everything, if we have enough data,。
if we have enough information,。
if we have the right methodology,。
we can solve any problem in this world.。
We're celebrating human competence.。
But the king didn't play along.。
He changed the rules.。
In Cantonese, we call (speaks in foreign language)。
like you move the goal.。
He changed the rules.。
And he said, "No, no, no, no, no.。
"If I tell you, you can make up something。
"and just tell me, and I can do that as well.。
"Tell me a dream and I can make up something for you.。
"So why don't, if you guys are so powerful,。
"why don't you tell me my dream?。
"I'm not gonna tell you.。
"You have to tell me what was in my dream."。
And so these people,。
it's out of their comfort zone,。
it's out of their professional knowledge.。
And when he made the king, when he made that demand,。
it's completely not on their JD,。
not on their professional scope.。
You see my JD just wrote, "I'll read this book.。
"You tell me your dream and I'll tell you the meaning.。
"That's how it works.。
"That's the system."。
That's my JD, sorry, king, sorry.。
Telling you what you dream,。
it's actually not on the contract.。
We didn't sign that.。
So could you tell us?。
Of course, they didn't say that,。
but they were just buying time, stalling, and saying,。
they're trying to be like professional customer service.。
Oh, would you like to tell us your dream。
so we could tell you the answer?。
You know, they're just very sweet,。
very polite, telling the king,。
"Yes, please let me do it.。
"Please tell me your dreams."。
So what they're doing,。
it's they're trying to go back to their system.。
They're trying to play to their strength.。
They are trying to go back to their area of expertise,。
to their professional comfort zone.。
This is the way we're going to do it.。
We're relying on a Babylonian training.。
That's what we're trained to do.。
Just come and play along in the system.。
And we knew that in the scripture that the king said,。
"No, sorry, I've made up my mind.。
"It is what it is.。
"You gotta tell me my dream, otherwise I'm gonna die."。
And so the king doubled down.。
And finally, these experts, these sorcerers,。
these wise men, they were cornered,。
they were terrified,。
and they were forced to make a humiliating confession。
in verse 11.。
They said this, "What the king asked is too difficult.。
"No one can reveal to the king except the gods,。
"and they, the gods, do not live among men."。
That was a critical moment.。
For these men, this statement,。
it's basically the end of their line.。
It is a full admission of their incompetence.。
In their worldview,。
that was the ultimate professional failure.。
They failed to do what they were hired to do completely.。
Like, big time, they failed.。
But this statement is also profound,。
give us a profound insight into their theology.。
These astrologers, they confessed that only the gods。
possess this kind of information sought by the king,。
and the gods do not live among men,。
which means, sorry, we have no way to know it.。
Yeah, somebody knows, but it's not available.。
I don't have a direct line.。
I don't have a hotline to call the gods.。
Sorry, we don't have the information。
that you're looking for.。
Their statement was not a humble pointer to a higher power.。
It was a declaration that the entire religious system。
was useless in this situation.。
The Babylonian system valued gods。
that could be managed through rituals and formulas,。
but it had no category for a personal,。
for an all-powerful god who could intervene directly。
in a human crisis.。
That's, sorry, we don't have someone like that.。
I don't have a contact for such a god.。
Their theology saw gods as distant, inaccessible,。
and involved in impossible human situations or problems.。
It was a frank confession of their entire failure.。
It's a public acknowledgement that their art。
has reached the end or their limitations.。
They were admitting that their entire system was a fraud.。
I can't do it, sir, that their connection。
to the supernatural was actually non-existent.。
Yeah, there is a god, there's some gods who can do that,。
but sorry, they don't, we're not friends.。
We're not homies.。
We don't have connection.。
Our connection to supernatural,。
basically what they're saying, it's sorry,。
I don't, it's non-existent, it's not there.。
And their accumulated human wisdom had hit a wall.。
We try everything we could, but if you don't tell us,。
there's no way we can do it.。
Their self-sufficient sanctuary had crumpled,。
and the result was a death sentence.。
They're gonna die.。
But we notice a very profound shift in this story.。
These wise men, they were saying,。
sorry, we can't do it, we failed, we couldn't do it,。
but where the Babylonian wise men failed,。
it's precisely where Daniel and his friends began.。
This is where they came in in this story.。
Their admission, the admission of failure。
by the Babylonian wise men was actually。
the starting point of Daniel and his friends.。
So we'll continue to read Daniel chapter two.。
We'll read from verse 14.。
We see that the chief executioner came,。
Ariel came to Daniel and his friends.。
They were supposed to be executed as well,。
but Daniel didn't panic.。
He was like, all right, so I heard the story.。
I saw that the other wise men,。
they couldn't do what the king asked,。
their inability was like an end to them,。
but Daniel saw a human inability。
as the very reason to turn to God.。
Yeah, we can't do it, but I know someone who can.。
They saw a closed door.。
These wise men, they saw a closed door,。
but Daniel actually saw an open invitation.。
Okay, that's my cue.。
That's my cue to go and do something.。
The story tells us that Daniel and his friends。
were also marked for death.。
They were on the death row together。
because they were caught up in the failure,。
the same failure of the Babylonian system,。
but they did something else.。
We saw here in the story that Daniel went to the house。
and he closed the door and told his friends,。
let's plead for mercy from God of heaven。
concerning this mystery.。
Their first response was not to scheme,。
not to rely on their own cleverness,。
but to immediately and collectively turn。
to the only source of power。
that could solve the impossible problem.。
They immediately, they collectively turned to God.。
That's what they did.。
They were using heavenly resources on this crisis.。
They understood something。
that the wise men of Babylon could not.。
Admitting your own incompetence, it's not failure.。
It's actually the beginning。
of accessing God's infinite competence.。
For them, prayer wasn't the last resort.。
Prayer was the only resort.。
It was their primary strategy.。
That's what they always do.。
Again, unlike me, prayer has become my last resort.。
For them, prayer is not just their last,。
it's never their last resort.。
It's always their first response.。
It's their only resort.。
That's the only thing they know to do.。
And for them, they know that,。
you know, this is what we can learn from Daniel today,。
that the omission of failure or incompetence,。
it is in fact the prerequisite of faith.。
We have to come before God and say,。
God, I know I can't do it.。
That's one of the first lessons。
that God taught me in full-time ministry.。
When I left school, when I left seminary,。
I was just a very broken person.。
And I started this ministry experience。
in a youth ministry.。
And I was tasked to do things that seem very easy,。
but somehow I can't do it,。
but maybe a lot of people would do better than me.。
I was asked to organize a lot of big events,。
which just, you know, just blew up my head.。
I'm like, ah, I was so frustrated.。
And back then I didn't even know,。
I wasn't even diagnosed with ADHD.。
I only knew I can't do this, I can't do this.。
Two nights before the event happened,。
it was in Asia World Expo near the airport,。
5,000 people, 5,000 young people was about to show up.。
And I was like, my head was in a mess.。
And I just came to God and prayed,。
God, I just give you all my limitations.。
I just give you all my weaknesses.。
It looks easy, but I don't know why I can't do it.。
I don't know how to do it.。
I give you all my inability, my weakness, my limitations.。
I just give them to you.。
Our admission of failure and incompetence,。
it's actually the prerequisite of faith.。
It's to invite God, all right, God, now,。
let's do this together.。
It's not a weakness to admit。
that you don't have all the answers or all the strength.。
It's an act of humble wisdom that opens the door。
for God's divine work, divine power to work。
in that situation.。
When we reach the end of our abilities,。
we finally stand in the threshold。
of God's infinite capacity.。
We're finally there.。
God has been waiting.。
He's been whispering, hey, do you wanna pray about this?。
Do you wanna just pray a prayer?。
Do you know you're just one prayer away from getting help?。
God is whispering to us and he's saying,。
telling me you can't do it, it's not a problem.。
It's actually wisdom.。
It's actually knowing the right thing to do.。
And so here we see that when we reach the end。
of our own abilities, Daniel,。
he opened a door to God's infinite capacity.。
This turning point transforms an impossible situation。
into an opportunity for God to display his glory.。
I don't know what is the impossible situation。
you're going through in your life,。
in your family, in your work.。
Maybe God has been always whispering,。
I'm just one prayer away.。
You're at the threshold already.。
You're at the end of your capability, of your competence,。
but you know what?。
Beyond that, you're at that threshold.。
Beyond that, you will step into my infinite capacity。
of power and I'm just one prayer away.。
And Daniel, they said, prayer is not my last resort.。
It's my first response.。
It's not a weakness to pray.。
It's not a weakness to turn to God.。
It is a strength.。
It is a privilege that we can do it.。
It will be a turning point from what it seemed。
to be a struggle, a crisis.。
It's a turning point for it to become。
a display of God's glory.。
So this lead us to another lesson。
that perhaps we can learn from Daniel.。
You see Daniel in this whole incident,。
he had actually, he's been living a dual role.。
He has two roles in this.。
He has to balance his professional competence。
with his prophetic dependence.。
Let me explain.。
So think about who Daniel was.。
He was not some anti-intellectual, anti-social guy。
who rejected and withdrew from the system.。
He was actually a product of that system.。
If we go back to Daniel chapter one,。
we could see that he spent three years。
going through the training in the palace.。
The king spent three years to train them up.。
They were these like, you know,。
mentee or management trainee program。
or something like that.。
They went through that.。
They went through a training program for three years.。
They was taught everything they need to know。
and they were top of the class.。
It was set in the last chapter.。
So they were actually the best product of the system.。
They were the one who were skillful in all wisdom,。
knowledgeable, perceptive.。
They are the professional ones.。
They are amount, all those wise men.。
That's part of their identity.。
So when he approached the guard, the captain,。
he actually said this in verse 14.。
In verse 14, he said that Daniel actually interacted。
with him with wisdom and tact.。
This word tact in the original language,。
it says with taste.。
Like meaning he knows what's the right thing to say.。
He has the right words.。
Why does he have the right words to say to him?。
Because he was trained.。
He was trained to be eloquent.。
He was trained in all this Babylonian language。
and culture and knowledge.。
He is a trained person.。
He's smart.。
And he was talking to him with this wisdom and tact.。
That was trained up by the system.。
He was using his competence from within the system.。
So he was talking to this guy and say,。
he was saying, okay, asking for the reason。
for this whole situation.。
And he was using his professional training。
to navigate this complex situation.。
But Daniel, he knew his professional role was secondary.。
His primary identity was his spiritual。
or prophetic role as God's spokesman.。
And for this role, those three years of training。
in the Babylonian school education, they are useless.。
He understood that his true wisdom came not。
from his Babylonian curriculum, but from God of heaven.。
He knew he needs to go to the source of wisdom。
to find that wisdom.。
So the prophetic role of Daniel,。
it required a different sets of resources,。
a direct connection with God through prayer。
and an immediate moment by moment dependence on God.。
He need that.。
It's not something that was taught by the Babylonians,。
not the system, not his professionalism。
that could help him solve that problem.。
And he held these two roles,。
his professional role and his prophetic role,。
you know, in perfect tension.。
He used his professional competence to create the space。
for his prophetic dependence to work.。
His tact bought him the time he needed to pray.。
He didn't reject his training.。
He subordinated his training to his faith.。
So look at the result.。
When God reveals this dream,。
Daniel's first reaction is not to run to the king.。
It was to praise.。
In his beautiful hymn that was recorded in verse 20。
to verse 23, he gives all the glory to God.。
And he said, he acknowledges that God is the one。
who set up and disposes kings.。
And there's a bold declaration.。
And he said, you know, I acknowledge God.。
He's the one who reveals these deep things。
and hidden things in my heart.。
He reveals this to me.。
He said, I'm here to praise God.。
I acknowledge he is the source of all this wisdom.。
And because he operated from this place of dependence,。
Daniel did more than just getting the job done.。
He did more than just finding out what the dream was about,。
interpreting the dreams.。
He didn't just solve the king's problem。
and save everyone's life.。
He revealed God's eternal plan for human history.。
We don't have time to look at the entire passage,。
but I highly recommend you go back and read it.。
And if you don't know what those passage means,。
you can simply get a study Bible。
or just go online or ask ChetGBT,。
which I think is very safe to ask ChetGBT。
what these means like.。
Basically, the statue of the four materials。
was describing the kingdom of Babylon。
and then the kingdom of Persian。
and then the Greek kingdom and the Greek empire。
and then the Roman empire.。
But then there's a stone that was not made by human hands.。
That is Jesus and God's eternal kingdom.。
So Daniel was unpacking what God was about to do。
in human history through that dependence,。
through that obedience.。
He was not just trying to solve a human problem.。
He was ushering in God's plan and God's revelation。
into his time, into his generation,。
into his workplace, into the entire kingdom。
to bring hope, to let God's people know。
what he's about to do or what he promises to do,。
what he would fulfill in the end.。
And so his dependence didn't just lead to a solution.。
His dependence lead to a revelation.。
And this is the challenge for us today, church.。
Like Daniel, many of us, we hold two roles or a dual role.。
We are professionals.。
We have different jobs.。
We're in different roles in this society.。
We're in different spheres of influence.。
You hold a role that was paid and that's your job.。
And you have a JD, your boss,。
when they hire you, the HR department or your boss,。
they will tell you what your role is about,。
what you have to do, what you have to get done。
to get that paycheck at the end of the month.。
You have a role description.。
That's easy.。
We all know that.。
If you don't know that, you're probably out of a job already.。
But what we sometimes don't know。
is that we have another role.。
We have a calling from heaven.。
We have a JD, we have a job description from heaven.。
We have a role as God's representative,。
wherever you are, your company, your workplace, your school,。
wherever you are, you have another role.。
I was just talking to someone this week,。
talking about their work, and I said,。
"You know what?。
"God has given you a role as the representative of God.。
"Could you imagine, could you think of。
"what God wants to do in these people around you?"。
Particularly, this person told me。
he was the only Christian in the entire team。
or the entire department.。
I'm like, perfecto, that means God has something。
that he wants you to do or he wants to do through you。
in this place.。
You are his representative in this company。
or at least in this department.。
Do you know that job description?。
Do you know what that role is about?。
Do you know your prophetic role?。
You have a clear understanding of your professional role,。
but do you have an understanding of your prophetic role。
in your company, in your workplace?。
Sometimes we only look at one and not the other。
because we thought that's where we get our paycheck.。
And didn't you know that you have an even bigger paycheck。
waiting for you in heaven?。
It depends on whether you know your role,。
your kingdom, heavenly role in your workplace.。
Daniel's story told us that we hold dual roles。
wherever we are.。
God has given us minds, talents, training.。
Of course, these like professional competence。
and he expects us to use it for his glory, for excellence,。
but that's just the professional competence part.。
Our primary identity, allow me to say this word again,。
our primary identity is as children of God,。
spokespeople for his kingdom。
and in our own corner of the world,。
this is our prophetic role.。
We have one more role。
that sometimes we might have forgotten about.。
We are representing God wherever we are.。
And the problem is sometimes we get these two roles。
like backwards.。
We lead with our professional competence。
and keep our prophetic dependence in the background,。
only calling on it in an emergency.。
Oh, you know, everything fell last we saw,。
okay, God, God, it's time to pray.。
God, where are you?。
Come and help me.。
It's a last resort.。
If prayer is not a last resort,。
if this prophetic role, it's a primary identity,。
if prayer is a first response every day,。
perhaps our work routine will be slightly different.。
Perhaps the first thing when you arrived in office,。
instead of saying hi, good morning to your bosses,。
to your colleagues,。
perhaps the first thing we can do on our way to work,。
perhaps we can pray.。
Not just that we can, you know, we can have success,。
we can do things well,。
but how about, God, this is what I'm called to do today.。
First of all, what do you call me to do。
in this office today?。
And second of all, this is on the agenda.。
Would you breathe on these things?。
Would you lay hands on me so that when I do these things,。
it's your plan, it's your revelation,。
it's your power that is at work.。
So that it's not just my professional competence。
that would be, you know, that would be displayed,。
but in my heavenly dependence is your power,。
is your glory that would manifest in my workplace,。
in my office, around the people I'm serving。
and working with.。
If we know we have a primary role like that,。
perhaps we would start a day。
and we would go through a day slightly differently.。
If we know what Jesus meant, you know,。
I'm the vine, you're the branches,。
you would know that where that power comes from.。
Yeah, we can rely on all our own personal。
or our own competence or professional competence,。
but if we're doing that,。
we're still staying in the Babylonian value system.。
We're just letting that affect us.。
Okay, I'm gonna give this.。
This is what the system taught me.。
This is what we celebrate as a system.。
I'll do this, but God is calling us。
to a different kind of culture,。
like what Pastor Andrew taught us last week.。
He's calling us to a different lifestyle。
where yes, we have our own professional competence,。
but I am going to let it submit to my heavenly dependence.。
My immediate sometimes is a collective dependence。
that I'm not just praying by myself.。
I'll pray with other people。
so that God would come in our workplace.。
And I'll always submit my professional competence。
under my dependence and not the other way around.。
It's always my spiritual role, my prophetic role,。
it will always be my primary role,。
not whatever they call me,。
whatever is on my name card, on my business card.。
My role as a son and daughter of God,。
my role as his representative in this place。
will always be my primary role.。
Can I get an amen for that?。
So what can we do?。
The invitation is for us to reflect on our lives,。
to rewire our thinking.。
He's gonna give us two tips before we end.。
Number one, let's look at prayer。
not as an admission of failure,。
but as a primary act of connection。
to the source of all life and power.。
It's not, it shouldn't be a last resort.。
All right, the project failed, the contingency failed,。
the contingency of the contingency failed,。
the contingency of the contingency of the contingency failed.。
Oh, I got one last resort.。
God, I can talk to Jesus if you guys don't mind.。
No, we shouldn't put God as a last resort.。
He should be the first response.。
He should be our first response.。
We should always go to him.。
Begin your day with telling God,。
God, this is what, this is the project.。
This is what I'm about to do.。
Would you breathe your life into this?。
Would you show your glory in my work today。
so that other people, they can see you as well,。
so that something about your eternal kingdom。
will be revealed in this office today.。
To see prayer not as an admission of failure,。
but as a primary act of connection。
to the source of all power in life.。
And the second is to see our competence。
not as a substitute for dependence.。
Not because you can't do this.。
Daddy, I don't need you, I can do this by myself.。
Not, do not substitute your dependence。
with your competence.。
God didn't give us our competence。
so that we don't have to rely on him.。
He give us our competence so that we can co-work with him.。
We can represent him well.。
We can walk side by side alongside him.。
That's what he wants.。
So to see our competence not as a substitute for dependence,。
but as a vessel through which。
God's dependent power can flow.。
And when we do that, like Daniel,。
not only we would solve problems in front of us,。
we will find ourselves caught up。
in God's grand eternal purpose for the world.。
You will see God moving in your workplace,。
in sphere of influence in a different level.。
That's what he wants to do.。
That's how he wants to partner with us.。
And we feel that tension.。
We have dual roles, but in the story of Daniel,。
God has already spoken to us。
and showed us how that could work.。
Are you ready to have your mind rewired?。
Are you ready?。
Beside your JD on your contract,。
are you ready to step into the other role in your office。
so the kingdom could actually come to right where you are,。
right where you work or where you live?。
Shall we stand up and pray?。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
