So, I have been to church for a long time, since I was really young.。
And because of that, a lot of the aunties and uncles in the church would ask me, "Jun,。
go and share your testimony with the younger ones."。
And every time I hear that, I get really nervous.。
Because I don't have a really good story to tell.。
I'm a second generation Christian.。
Well, actually a third, because my grandma was a Christian.。
So I've always grown up knowing God is real.。
I've always known, you know, He is here in my life.。
So I don't have any exciting things to tell.。
And also, when I want to talk about...。
Away.。
So, exactly.。
Like, sometimes I get really nervous about talking to people and sharing about my story,。
and there's just not much to say, right?。
Maybe you need to help me fix it.。
Thank you so much.。
So I have nothing, really a lot going on in my life to share.。
Until, until my mom started baking bread.。
Right?。
So she doesn't just bake her bread in those baking bread machines.。
She would grow her yeast.。
She would knead her bread by hand, and then she would prove it for a really long time.。
She normally started it in the afternoon, and normally it takes the whole day to do。
it.。
And so by night time, at 11 o'clock, night time, the whole house is filled with the bread。
aromas.。
And she'd go, "Joon, would you like to taste my bread?"。
And I go, "Mom, I'm full already.。
I just had dinner not too long ago."。
And she would be a little bit upset.。
And she'd go, "Not even a bite of your mom's bread?"。
I go, "Okay, okay, let me taste it."。
So I would taste it.。
And she would ask me, "Is it good?"。
"Yeah, it's good."。
And she would always have this follow up question to ask me, "Why is it good?。
Why do you like it?。
How do you compare it with store-bought bread?"。
And so now, as I'm like a few years later, I'm very good at describing the textures and。
the taste and all the different combinations of bread.。
And then I thought, "Wow, not only I'm able to articulate it.。
What I say can be a proof for my mom to say that, 'Yes, my bread is good because my daughter。
said this, because this is exactly what she tasted.'"。
And so fast forward to now, when I realized that, oh, when I have to articulate why something。
is good, I can remember the details that I easily forgotten.。
I could put the fleeting feelings into words to share with other people.。
And testimony sharing is similar to that.。
It is about sharing and celebrating what God has done in your life, whether it is when。
you first believe or when you're just experiencing God's presence in your life and the changes。
that he has in your life.。
So stepping into 2025, think about 2024.。
Has it been a really quick year for you?。
Or has this year been a little bit long and dragging and you're wishing that 2025 could。
come sooner?。
Have you noticed anything that you've changed for yourself?。
And how has God been involved in your life?。
Today we're going to look at Psalm 66 and see how the Israelites have been reflecting。
and praising God in their lives to inspire us how we could reflect on our own lives as。
well.。
So let's look at Psalm 66, verse one to five first.。
It says, "Shout for joy to God, all the earth.。
Sing about the glory of his name, make his praise glorious.。
Say to God, how awesome are your deeds because of your great power, your enemies cringe before。
you.。
All the earth bow down to you.。
They sing praise to you.。
They sing the praises of your name.。
Come and see what God has done, his awesome deeds for mankind."。
Right from the start, the Psalmist gives very clear guidance on how to praise and what to。
praise.。
So how should we praise?。
We need to sing, we need to shout, we need to speak out God's praise.。
But what do we share about?。
We will share about what he has done, his power and his name.。
He is the God of provision.。
He is the almighty God.。
That is his name and that is his personality and character towards us.。
In verse five, the Psalmist says directly, "Come and see what God has done."。
The English version is actually very closely translated to the Hebrew one because of the。
structure.。
They both begin with the verbs, "Come and see."。
It's not thought, like praise is not a thought that we could go, "Oh, you get me God.。
You know what?。
I praise you.。
I will just keep it in my heart."。
It's not like that at all.。
The Psalmist actually is calling his community to come and see what God has done in their。
life.。
It's so urgency.。
Come quickly and see what God has done.。
When we look back at what God has done in our lives, we naturally want to tell other。
people to come and see it, to come and experience it for yourself.。
So I had this really good experience like that as well.。
So this month, the beginning of December, I found this really delicious yakitori place。
just next to my building.。
And so with just this month, I had it five times because I kept telling my friend, my。
family, my old co-workers to, you have to come and see the place because the favorite。
thing I love about that place is their eel skewers.。
Do you eat eel here?。
Who eats eel?。
Oh, there are some of you who like, no, I'm not going to try that.。
Well, this eel is so good because the skin is very crispy.。
And when you bite into it, the juice just burst out and the meat is just so bouncy and。
it's just so delicious.。
And I kept telling people, you have to come and see it.。
And so I had this five times.。
And so this is exactly what my reflection is like.。
I have to go home and think about, did I reflect about what God has been in my life like that?。
If I savor it so much that I would want to share with other people as well.。
And so then in verse five to seven and eight to 12, this is exactly what the Psalmist did.。
He wants to testify God's goodness in two different angles.。
The first one comes in verse five to seven.。
It says, "Come and see what God has done, his awesome deeds for mankind.。
He turned the sea into dry land.。
They passed through the waters on foot.。
Come, let us rejoice in him.。
He rules forever by his power.。
His eyes watch the nations.。
Let not the rebellious rise up against him."。
The Psalmist give thanks for the identity God has given them.。
So the Israelites before that, before they were a nation, they actually had been slaves。
of the Egyptian slaves.。
But God's action set them free and the identity changed to become God's people.。
Even though the Psalmist never experienced God, you know, opening up the Red Sea for。
them and he actually walked through the dry land.。
But this is the identity they refer to.。
When you ask the Israelites, "Who are you?。
Where do you come from?"。
The first thought that come into their mind is the way that God set the nations free and。
give them identity.。
When we talk about identity nowadays, we would say that, "Oh, I am," like if you ask me a。
few years ago, I would say, "Oh, I am a teacher.。
I was someone else's daughter and I belong to this and that place."。
But the first thing that Israelites, when they want to praise God, the first thing that。
come out of their mouth is the identity, the relationship they had with God.。
God set me free.。
God took me out from some place, from slavery into freedom, into God's people.。
So when I ask you, if you have to ask yourself this question, "What is your identity right。
now?。
Who do you belong to?。
What would you have said differently or what inspired you to think about that question?"。
And so they ask people to come and see where they are at now.。
I am now free.。
I am now God's people.。
So come and see.。
It's not just to come and look at them, but to come and consider, come and think about。
this.。
Do you see who I am now?。
I am God's people.。
This can't be achieved by just mere human striving.。
This has to be done by God's power.。
And you just have to look and consider and think about where I am now.。
And in verse 8 to 12, it talked about the hardship.。
But looking back, they understood something deeper through the process.。
So let's have a look at verse 8 to 12.。
Verse 8, it says, "Praise our God, all peoples.。
Let the sounds of his praise be heard.。
He has preserved our lives and kept our feet from slipping.。
For you, God, tested us.。
You refined us like silver.。
You brought us into prison and laid burdens on our backs.。
You let people ride over our heads.。
We went through fire and water.。
But you brought us to a place of abundance."。
When we remember God's work during hardships, we can see things differently.。
There are many explanations or why suffering happens.。
Sometimes there are no explanation why there are sufferings as well.。
But God is always working.。
He's always at work.。
When the psalmists remember their difficulty, they see a purpose behind it.。
In verse 10, the psalmist says God refines them like silver.。
Even though they were trapped and burdened, even though they suffered, they saw this as。
spiritual refinement.。
So how do you refine silver?。
How do you refine silver?。
Well, the first step is to heat up silver to really high temperature, as high as 1,000。
degrees.。
And then they put lead into it.。
The lead attracts all the other impurities, all the other substances, and it actually。
weighted them down.。
All the impurities will be weighted down until there's only silver left at the bottom.。
But the craftsmen still need to watch over it.。
They still need to discern whether the silver is pure enough by seeing how it reflects.。
And so this is until the silver is mirror-like.。
And the psalmist says God made them carry heavy burdens.。
God led them through different challenges.。
They went through fire and water.。
But these were not the final destination.。
The purpose for all of that is to bring them to a place of abundance.。
Jesus said He came so we could have life and have it more abundantly.。
What does abundant life look like?。
What does it mean to have an abundant life?。
Here's something interesting.。
When Jesus talks about abundance, He never once mentioned our possessions.。
Not once.。
He talks about peace that goes beyond understanding.。
He talks about joy that persists even in hard times.。
He talks about relationship that fills our hearts.。
The process of getting an abundant life requires our hearts to keep up with our understanding.。
Sometimes there are good things that happen and we rejoice and we feel directly of God's。
love and God's mercy and grace, gracious things on us.。
Sometimes we have to go through difficult times to adjust our hearts so that we can。
be refined.。
The process of getting an abundant life requires our hearts to keep up with our understanding.。
When does a craftsman know that the silver is good enough?。
It has high reflectivity and no impurities.。
The craftsman have to watch over the silver's transformation.。
They have to look at your transformation, the silver's transformation, and test its。
reflectivity.。
Through difficulties, God refines us.。
God constantly watches over my life so that it can better reflect His image.。
And I'm thankful for our heavenly brother for doing that.。
And today I've invited three friends to come up and share what God has been doing in their。
life.。
And today they would like to tell you to come and see what God has done in their lives.。
Not just to see what God is doing, but think about it and consider how things are done.。
And so the first one I'd like to invite Francesca, let's give her a warm welcome.。
So we've always known Francesca, she is service leading, she's in the coffee team, she's in。
many different, different roles.。
But today she's going to share about what God has been doing in her life.。
So I'm going to give the time to Francesca.。
Thank you.。
Thank you, June.。
Great.。
I'm really excited, you know, to share with you what God has done in my life.。
And I really love today's psalm.。
And, you know, I am someone with passion, if you know me.。
And when there's good restaurant, I'm one of those.。
I'm like, come to this restaurant.。
So I'd love to share with you, you know, one of the many great things that God has done。
in my life in 2024.。
Now, but before that, I want to give you some a little bit of context of my background as。
well.。
I wasn't raised a Christian.。
And when I became a Christian in my early 20s, I became very passionate about my faith.。
And I was so eager to share this gospel, this new knowledge that I gained.。
And you know, you've got to share good news, the good things, right?。
Now, especially with my mom.。
None of my families are Christian.。
And I'm the only one at that time.。
And it's always my hope and dreams for her to become Christian.。
And most importantly, to know Jesus, to walk a life full of freedom and peace.。
Now, however, it hasn't been easy.。
My mom has been quite resistant in the past 10 years or so for various reasons.。
Now, one of the main reasons is that we have a very important family member, someone that。
it's very important to her and our family.。
He's a Buddhist.。
And he was actually, he used to be a Catholic, and then he became a Buddhist, the whole family.。
And this person is deeply devoted to his faith.。
And he's super disciplined, highly educated, and very influential.。
He actually would write books and give talks about Buddhism, right?。
So he's like a pastor Buddha kind of thing.。
Now, I, you know, my mom has so much respect, you know, and looks up to him.。
And actually, so do I, because growing up, he's someone that's so important to our family.。
And I see what he, you know, what he does for this society.。
And he contributes so much.。
He's one of the kindest and most generous person I've known as well.。
But since I became a Christian, I've seen him as the obstacle to my mom's faith journey.。
Why?。
Because on one hand, I would share gospel and good news with my mom, right?。
And you know, talk about Jesus and what I know.。
And then on the other hand, he would just, you know, tell him, tell my mom about Buddhism,。
you know, what you need to do.。
And on one hand, I would try to get rid of all the statues at home, and you know, try。
to, you know, have, you know, a home that I feel peace.。
But on the other hand, he would, you know, give my mom all these blessed statues, you。
know, Gunyama, and then like all these cards and, you know, all this music and sound.。
And you can imagine it wasn't easy, especially not easy for my mom, you know, being, standing。
in between two people that she loves the most, having two different, very, two very different。
faiths.。
Now, at that time, as a new and eager Christian, I was on fire to share gospel.。
And I was very protective of my new faith.。
And I was very protective of my mom.。
I desperately wanted her to know Jesus, right?。
And of course, I don't want her to fall out of faith, right?。
Like, so out of that eagerness, good intention, I became, you know, would sometimes come across。
as forceful and impatient.。
I'm sure some of you have come across those Christians once in your life, or you might。
be one of them too, you know.。
You know, that eagerness made me become so impatient as I, you know, trying to share。
gospel.。
Because I wanted to achieve something.。
I wanted my mom to know Jesus, but she just wouldn't come around.。
I felt so helpless.。
And I just, you know, sometimes to a point, I just feel so frustrated.。
I'm like, I can't do this.。
And up to a point, I just gave up.。
And I'm like, "Mom, you know, why do you?。
You know, believe Buddha, whatever.。
You believe in whatever faith you want.。
It's your life.。
Whatever."。
Is it really whatever?。
It's not really.。
I think behind that, it was just that sense of disappointment and frustration and exhaustion.。
Because I've tried, I've tried to share the news, I've tried to love her, and it just。
doesn't get to her.。
So I was like, "It's impossible.。
Whatever."。
Now, a few years ago, four or five years ago, someone from church, really grateful for this。
person, she prayed for me, you know, because throughout the year, she would pray, the whole。
community would come and pray for me and my family, especially my mom, right?。
And this person prayed for me, and she prophesied that my mom, she can see that my mom will。
go through a huge internal transformation, like a renovation inside of her, and that。
God will take care of her.。
Now since then, God has softened my heart, and so many miracles have happened.。
God has done so much in my family.。
And my mom, long story short, that's a huge testimony, it will take up another 30 minutes,。
but long story short, we got rid of all the statues at home, all of them, and my mom willing。
to get rid of them.。
And also, as my mom's heart's getting softer and softer, we eventually, we pray, and she。
prayed to accept Jesus Christ in her life.。
Right, let's give praise to God.。
But the story doesn't end here.。
Now, after she accepted Jesus Christ, you know, she was still afraid to share with this。
family, important family member of ours, right?。
How do we tell this person that, "Oh, we chuck all your statues away."。
You know, those are, you know, it will come across disrespectful, right?。
But throughout this time, you know, God has really, really changed my heart and helped。
me realize that everyone has their own faith journey, you know, their own timing.。
Ultimately, it's God who changes people's heart, not me, not what I do and not do.。
And just like how He changes my heart years ago.。
So since then, you know, seeing all the changes in my heart, I start realizing I don't need。
to force my faith onto someone.。
I don't need to persuade other people by reasons and logic because I can't, right?。
All I need to do is just to live it out by loving people and, you know, extending the。
love that I have received from God.。
Now, the amazing thing happened.。
Earlier this year, I had the opportunity to chat with this person one-on-one in a catch-up.。
And throughout this conversation, it's very, very different than before.。
Before I always want to find opportunity to prove him wrong, to, you know, to tell you。
that Jesus is better and my God is real, you know.。
I was that eager.。
But that conversation, it turns out the other way.。
I just, I feel like God really transformed me, that I started to have this gentleness。
in me, that I listen and that I care.。
And out of nowhere, I had this curiosity to just learn about him, understand where he's。
from.。
So I asked him, you know, I just want to know how come you, you know, you're once a Catholic。
and then now you became a Buddhist.。
What's behind that?。
What's your journey?。
You know, what are you pursuing?。
He is someone that's so disciplined, I tell you.。
The way he pursued his faith, it's like something that I so admire.。
And I want to do that for myself.。
And I know out of curiosity, I asked him all the questions he shared.。
And then, of course, he shared the reason why he didn't like Christians and he didn't。
believe this, you know, that just Jesus.。
And I heard him and I understood him and I empathized him because of his past hurt that。
experiences, right?。
And I wasn't there to neglect what he said, but I just to be there and heard his stories.。
And then afterwards, then I gently, very gently just share with him my journey.。
Oh, why do I believe in Jesus?。
And what do I know about Jesus?。
What did Jesus say, right?。
You're people of flaws, but I just tell him what I know about Jesus.。
And then at the end of the conversation, he just looked at me and say this, "I see that。
you're very serious about your faith.。
And what you said, what you're pursuing is good."。
And then there was this pause and then he continue, "Now that I understand what you're。
pursuing, I believe we're seeking the same thing, same God, just in different forms."。
Now, of course, I have a different views on that.。
And then he said, "I will talk to your mom.。
I will tell her to stop pursuing Buddha and to pursue your God wholeheartedly."。
Let's give praise to God.。
What?。
Like this truly blew my mind at the moment.。
I was like, what?。
He's no longer the obstacle?。
He's no longer the person that, you know, trying to stop my mom pursuing Jesus, but。
actually he, you know, actually what happened was he actually did call my mom afterwards。
and he met up with my mom.。
He visited my mom and then he was like, he told my mom that, "Don't pursue Buddha now.。
Just pursue Jesus.。
Just pursue the God that your daughter's following."。
How?。
This is impossible.。
And again and again, God is just showing me that he is the God that can make the impossible。
possible like this worship songs that we're saying.。
And I was like, "God, you're so amazing."。
And in the past, even though I knew God, I didn't fully understand the true meaning of。
sharing gospel, right?。
I was just judgmental.。
I tried to share it with my own ways and try to reasons, you know, persuade people with。
reasons and logics.。
But throughout this time, God say, "My love, all I want you to do is just to love."。
And I realized I have experienced his love so much that, you know, I would just want。
to give God all the praise for all that he has shown me.。
His love is so gentle and is so patient.。
God, he's so patient with me.。
And I'm just so thankful that I got to first experience his love, then I get to share this。
with my family and my mom.。
And who would have thought this uncle, this family member would actually turn around and。
do this and be on my side, assist me to persuade my mom?。
Only God can do this, right?。
So I also want to say thank you for my community because they've been praying for me days to。
days about my mom and my family.。
I think God put people in my life to walk with me in this journey.。
So I'm just so thankful that God is the one who accomplishes the work.。
All I need to do is just to trust him and walk along in this journey with him.。
Thank you guys.。
Let's give a big hand to Francesca.。
Thank you so much.。
And I think a lot of families have, maybe you have been through this as well.。
You have been praying for your family member and you want your mom or your dad, your uncle。
to believe in Christ.。
And it's been five years, maybe 10 years or maybe over 20 decades, 20 decades.。
It still didn't happen.。
But when you see something happen like that, you know that it is not because of human striving.。
It is because of God's greatness and power.。
And so we thank you, Francesca, for sharing her story and encourage us because what God。
has done in her life is going, this is what God does.。
And it's going, he's going to do it in every single one's life as well.。
And secondly, I'd like to invite Matthias to come and share with us.。
Matthias, someone that in the church very, not too long ago, and he is amazing.。
He is such a willing to heart to serve and to reach out to people.。
So I'd like to give the time to Matthias.。
Thank you.。
Thanks June.。
Hi.。
Like she said, my name is Matthias.。
My family and I have been coming to the Vian Yuen Long for a couple of months now.。
They're not here today.。
They weren't feeling well.。
But I was okay.。
So you know, maybe there was a reason.。
Maybe someone's supposed to hear this today.。
So yeah, sure.。
Anyway, I've been in Hong Kong.。
My wife and I were missionaries here in Hong Kong for the last nine, 10 years now.。
And we have three kids.。
They were all amazing in many different ways.。
And when June had asked for me to share my testimony, I took a deep breath.。
And I think what I have here is maybe a little bit of an honest self-reflection of this year。
and my journey with God this year.。
I think 2024 has been an intriguing year.。
It's been very different for me for many different reasons.。
And I think what I've taken out of it is I have learned more about God in a different。
way than I had before.。
And I think that's an amazing thing to do, that God is so big and so wide that we can。
-- there are many different ways we can learn more about him, you know, whether it be through。
the word, through his voice, and through different people.。
I think when June was sharing about Psalm 66, I think verse 8 and 10 really reflect。
maybe my journey this year.。
And verse 8 to 10 says -- I'll just read it out.。
It says, "Praise our God, all peoples.。
Let the sound of his praise be heard.。
He has preserved our lives and kept our feet from slipping.。
For you, God, tested us.。
You refined us like silver."。
And I think looking back this year, there have been many highs and many lows.。
But when I look back, I think there has been a lot of growth.。
I think there's a bit of more a reflection of maybe the maturity that I've grown, that。
I can look and see, oh, I look high of maturity.。
And that's really just all praise to God.。
So this year, my family and I, we decided to take a sabbatical.。
If you're not sure what sabbatical means, it's just really taking a pause from what。
we've been doing.。
So like I said, we've been missionaries with our missions organization for the last 9,。
10 years.。
And we decided to take a break.。
And it kind of led to also us stepping out from our positions and really becoming unemployed.。
So we felt that we were going to take a year to pause and reflect.。
It's a long time.。
And for the first six months, we were not to make any decisions or pray or talk about。
our future.。
We were just supposed to stop.。
We were just supposed to rest, although with three kids.。
Rest is a very different -- it takes a very different meaning.。
But yes, so to rest and not do anything.。
And I don't know if you're like me.。
When you're faced with something, oh, don't think about the future and you have no plans。
for the future, it kind of just keeps coming back.。
And it became very difficult.。
Because for me, in our situation, one, well, there's -- what are we going to do?。
Right?。
There's so much uncertainty.。
There are so many different potential opportunities as well for us to do.。
And I'm from Singapore, although my family lives in Australia.。
Long story.。
My wife's from America.。
And we live in Hong Kong.。
So there are many different directions we could take as well.。
We could live in all these different countries.。
We could remain on the mission field.。
We could not remain on the mission field.。
We could, you know, be missionaries in a different location.。
And so there are many different directions that we could have taken.。
And there are many different opportunities as well.。
People come and talk to us.。
They're like, oh, would you be interested in doing this?。
And I'm like, maybe.。
I don't know.。
I can't tell you yet.。
Or if you're a little older and you are a grandparent who loves grandchildren, you might。
be, hey, maybe you want to come live in this country that I live so that I can see my。
grandparent -- my grandchildren more.。
And we're like, yeah, sure.。
That's possible.。
Maybe.。
Maybe.。
You know?。
And free child care is also good.。
But I think what I'm trying to say is there are many different things that we could do.。
And a lot of people who offer had good intentions.。
No one was like, oh, you should do this or you need to do that.。
One other factor in our lives is that as missionaries we live on financial support.。
So people support us financially.。
Whether it be churches or individuals, family and friends.。
Because they believe in what we're doing.。
They believe in the work that we're doing here in Hong Kong.。
But guess what?。
This year we're not doing any work.。
And so we have a responsibility to tell them, oh, hey, these are our plans.。
This is what God is saying to us.。
This is our direction in our lives.。
But there was no direction.。
So then what?。
And honestly, all supporters were great.。
None of them actually asked me any of these questions.。
None of them were like, okay, what are you guys going to do now?。
And how's my money being used?。
Actually, they were all very supportive and all very great.。
I think a lot of the pressure was self inflicted.。
A lot of maybe the worry to answer these potential questions down the line was all self inflicted.。
That I started to worry.。
I started to question.。
And yeah.。
It made that time, you know, very -- just uncertain.。
Very unsure of our future.。
I think especially in that time as well, I was -- you know, when we would then seek God。
or ask questions about our future, there was nothing.。
You know?。
And it's not like God was not present.。
You know, in worship or in my quiet time.。
He was there.。
He was present.。
You know, you feel the love and the peace.。
But in regards to seeking direction and asking these questions, nothing.。
And that silence was very loud.。
Right?。
It was very loud.。
And you know, God -- I'm sure you all get to that.。
But it was not an easy time at that time.。
Because of what I felt was, you know, our responsibility.。
What I felt was just -- I guess maybe in my mind, what would be great, right?。
Maybe you all would think that way too.。
Is that if God would just say, okay, this is what I have for you next.。
Enjoy the rest of your sabbatical.。
Oh!。
Wouldn't that be such a joy?。
Right?。
Like, yes, future settled.。
Now just rest.。
Peace.。
You know?。
But for some reason, and God has his reasons.。
It did not work out that way.。
I think what I learned was that there was a need to really just take time to process,。
take time to end well a previous season, a long season that we have been in.。
So that we will be better prepared.。
So that we would not be carrying any negative baggage into the next thing that we were about。
to go into.。
And guess what?。
That took six months.。
Right?。
And that's our journey.。
Our journey might be different.。
But it was necessary, actually.。
It was needed.。
And I think what also ended up really helping in that time was just being -- going through。
it with my wife.。
Right?。
That we were doing it together.。
Right?。
That we were always then when faced with those questions that would come up, we would be。
like, "But God said we weren't supposed to do anything in this first six months.。
We weren't supposed to make a decision or decide about anything in this first six months."。
Right?。
So what I think was really encouraging for me was having someone to -- and of course。
for me to her -- was that we had each other to be able to encourage each other.。
To remind us of what God had said.。
Because it's not like he didn't say anything at all.。
He did say something.。
And he expected us to, like, "Hey, first six months.。
That's it.。
Don't worry about it."。
Okay?。
And having that -- I guess now I'm marrying my wife, too -- encouraged me to, "Hey, don't。
worry about it.。
One step at a time.。
When it's the right time, then God will speak."。
And I think for us, you know, maybe you don't have a partner, but we have a community to。
encourage us, to remind us of what God has said.。
To hold on to those truths.。
Right?。
To then say, "Okay.。
Yes, all these things are worrying.。
Things are uncertain.。
I might not have enough to pay rent, but this is what God has said.。
Let's hold on.。
Let's trust."。
And, you know, one other thing is the knowing that I know.。
I have heard God speak before.。
I know that God speaks.。
These are biblical truths that are in my life and in our lives.。
Right?。
It's a foundation of our faith.。
And that in this time that we can hold on to that, that he does not leave us.。
He does not forsake us.。
Right?。
These are things that we know that are true.。
And as we hold on to them, we can take courage.。
We can be encouraged.。
So fast forward to June when it was actually time to start praying about our future.。
It was honestly such a great process.。
We took some time to debrief.。
And in that time, we slowly started praying more, talking to people, talking to mentors,。
people that we trust.。
Okay, this is the time we felt like the doors are open.。
What do you have for us, God?。
And it was perfect.。
God slowly spoke.。
God showed us different things that we were supposed to do, what was on his heart.。
And we slowly gained direction, you know, purpose once again.。
Right?。
So for me, you know, we just felt, at least for us, we felt like, oh, we're supposed to。
remain here in Hong Kong.。
That's what God has for us right now.。
We were supposed to serve more in this area, in Yuen Long.。
You know, we've lived here in the Yuen Long area for the whole time here in Hong Kong.。
You know, we've started to gain relationships.。
Honestly, started to finally gain traction with locals here, you know, in the village。
that we live in, and the people here in Hong Kong, the relationships that we build.。
And he's like, those things are important.。
It takes time to do that.。
Don't just let them go, you know, build on that.。
And I think when I look back now, I'm reminded, you know, that yes, God did speak in that。
first, before, when he said, in the first six months, just don't do anything.。
Don't talk about it.。
Because when it became time, he did speak.。
And it became more clear.。
I don't know if you can understand, right, that when there's silence, and then now that's。
the opposite of word, it became more clear of, okay, now I really know, that I really。
know that this is the direction that I'm supposed to do.。
And so I think when I look back in the whole year, I feel like I've learned to trust God。
more in this different way, right, that God does guide us.。
And sometimes we don't need to keep asking, is it this one?。
How about this one?。
Right, if he said something, and it's been clear, let's just remember that.。
And have that people next to us to encourage us, hey, don't worry about that.。
God will make it good in his time.。
This is what he has already said.。
Don't forget that.。
Hold firm.。
And maybe that's a little bit of reflection of one's maturity in Christ as well.。
And maybe that's reflected in Hebrews 5, when God says, the writers say, you should be seeking。
food and eating food instead of drinking milk, like what you're supposed to receive now.。
And I think I like to say that I've matured in my faith a little bit more in this season。
in regards to receiving direction, in regards to hearing from God.。
And it comes with practice, right?。
I think hearing God's voice is something that as you practice more, you're more attuned。
to.。
So I would encourage that as well.。
And God knows what we can handle.。
God knows where we're at.。
He knew I could handle the silence, even though in the midst of it, there are times there。
where just what is happening.。
But he knew that I could, because when I look back now, I did it, we did it.。
Would I say I would like it that way, moving forward, that God is silent more?。
I don't know.。
I don't know.。
But of course, God's never going to be permanently silent to us.。
That's it.。
God bless.。
Thank you so much, Matthias.。
I think a lot of times we praise God for his work, but then it's seldom to hear that to。
praise God because he's silent.。
And I think that's really important to trust him.。
And I think that refinement was really beautiful as well.。
So thank you so much for sharing.。
And last but not least, I'd like to invite Novia to come up to share with us.。
I first know Novia through Alpha, and today I'd like to invite her to come and share her。
journey in 2024 as well.。
Hello, everyone.。
My name is Novia.。
It was an honor for me to share my story between God and me with you.。
So here it goes.。
Two years ago, I suffered from anxiety issue.。
I felt very insecure and unconfident about life and future.。
I didn't know what was the purpose of life and was fearful at uncertainty in life.。
Every morning, I would spend 10 minutes lying in bed, feeling anxious and hopeless.。
Even though I believe in God, I tend to believe in human effort so I can make sure things。
were in control.。
I also find it hard and unrealistic to believe God's word in the Bible.。
Do not be anxious about anything.。
This is Hong Kong.。
How can you not be anxious about things in Hong Kong?。
Your career, finance, expectation from others, setbacks in life, aspiration that you cannot。
achieve, you name it.。
I bet every one of us encounter these problems in our lives.。
When I talked to my friend, Dorothy, about my fear, she brought me to the fine Yunlong。
and encouraged me to seek answer from God.。
God then brought me into a journey of healing and it was not easy.。
I still held on to my old habits of controlling things and didn't like God to lead me.。
My faith was weak.。
Fortunately, God is always faithful.。
Whenever I felt like giving up, God kept giving me signs that said, "I'm here and I know.。
Just don't give up yet."。
I slowly opened my heart to God and learned to trust Him.。
By listening to sermon every Sunday, I learned new perspectives from His words and I understood。
He wanted me to abandon fear.。
On some bad days when I didn't feel like going to church, He sent the Holy Spirit to urge。
me.。
And guess what?。
In those sermons, He spoke to me directly and those are the words that I needed most。
at that time.。
During that period of time, my favorite scripture was, "I can do all things through Christ who。
strengthens me."。
Whenever anxiety started to creep in, I declared this scripture in His name and as the identity。
of His daughter.。
By reading Bible and talking to Him every day, anxiety and worry started to fade away.。
In replacement, there was peace and the expectation that He would prepare for me.。
I felt true freedom in Him and my heart was finally at rest.。
Last month, my elder brother was admitted to hospital for a surgical biopsy.。
A tumor was found near my brother's lung and the doctor had to make a cut at his chest。
to obtain the tissue.。
The tissue would then be sent to test if it is abnormal.。
There may be a chance of cancer.。
Ever since I knew about this, I prayed to God and asked Him to give me strength to support。
my family.。
On the night before the surgery, my brother was deep in worry.。
The Holy Spirit led me to share with my brother my encounter with God.。
After I shared my story, my brother said, "He is real."。
Eventually my parents, my brother and I joined hands for prayer in the hospital.。
When we finished our prayer, my brother was in tears.。
My brother is now discharged from the hospital and there is nothing bad in him.。
Several days ago when I sent Christmas greetings in the family WhatsApp group, my mother said,。
"It was my daughter's God who made my son's surgery a successful one.。
Many thanks to Him."。
This experience had a great impact on me.。
One, instead of worrying like I usually did, God gave me peace and calmness to support。
my family.。
Two, He used me to touch the hearts of my family who are non-Christians, very traditional。
Chinese and only know Buddhism in their lives.。
Three, He refined me in a way a pessimist like me could also bring hope and comfort。
to others.。
When I look back on this journey, I think God intentionally led me into this situation。
so I needed to seek change.。
In response, God worked like a farmer in me.。
He took out the barren soil in me, fertilized and watered my heart with His words, gave。
me sunshine when I was in darkness.。
There is only one hope, one purpose.。
It is to grow good things in me.。
In the past, if God told me, "That will be a difficult journey for you," and I definitely。
would say, "No, I'll pass."。
But now, I'm forever thankful that God let me have this lesson which led me to joy, freedom,。
and hope.。
I am no longer a slave to fear.。
To wrap up, I would like to share an extract of a song that best describes my journey.。
I brought it up in a desperate prayer.。
"Lord, why are you keeping me here?"。
Then He said to me, "Child, I'm planting seeds.。
I'm a good God and I have a good plan, so trust that I'm holding a watering can.。
And someday you'll see the flowers grow in the valley.。
When I'm on the mountain and looking down below, I'll see a valley of flowers that need。
the time to grow.。
And I thank you for the rain, the hurt, and days of pain."。
May God continue to bless and heal you in 2025.。
Thank you.。
Thank you so much.。
Thank you so much, Novia.。
Thank you for your courage to share about something difficult.。
Thank you for opening up the hearts to let people in to see what the journey is like.。
It's not easy to feel like this every single day.。
It's not easy to have to overcome fear, overcome challenging times.。
But as we have been hearing about God working in different people's lives in different ways,。
God is doing that the same for you today, that He is not stopping, but maybe it would。
look different for you.。
And so let's sit and think about what 2024 has looked like for you.。
We're going to have a time of quietness, and I'd like to invite you to look at your 2024.。
How has God been involved in your life?。
What has He done?。
Maybe it didn't look like what was shared on the stage, but I'm sure as we reflect,。
to see, and to consider, you can find God's footprint in every single step of your way.。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
Maybe 2024 has been a really good year for you, that you sense God's direct grace and。
favor upon your life, and we want to celebrate that.。
Maybe your 2024 looks difficult.。
Maybe there are some hiccups along the way, but God is in it.。
God was there in Francesca's life.。
He moved hearts and people and helped Francesca to see what God is doing in their family and。
helped her to have a genuine curiosity to her uncle, her family member.。
Maybe there were a lot of waiting for you in 2024.。
Maybe you were opened up with many directions and you feel confused and you feel lost, but。
Matthias reminded us that God is in his life.。
His silence was actually a way to mature him.。
And Matthias at the end celebrated the silence, God's silence, to mature him.。
Maybe there were times when you feel anxious and you feel there's no way to handle all。
the different situations, just like what Novia has been sharing.。
But God was working in her life and her family's life.。
And when we hold on to God's word, when we gather people around us, we can overcome,。
not because we can, but because God is moving, God is working.。
And as we are looking ahead in 2025, I would like you to stretch out your hands to receive。
the gift that God is giving you.。
God is giving you wisdom.。
God is giving you grace and open doors.。
God is giving you his precious son, Jesus, in you, surrounding you with people.。
We often feel like a new year is uncertain, but what we can hold on to, the certainty。
that we can hold on to is Jesus in our lives doing this with us.。
And hold on church, hold on to God's word, hold on to what he has said.。
He is for you.。
He is in you.。
Let's all stand up and respond to him in a way that only our voices can.。
(gentle music)。
