Yeah, it's great to be with you.。
As you already heard today is Branches of Hope Sunday.。
For those of you who do not know, Branches of Hope was actually started by the Vine Church.。
So this nonprofit organization was started by the Vine.。
And so we're going to hear from them in a little bit excited about that.。
Before we do that, I want to take a little bit time to prepare our hearts through God's。
word.。
And to hear from God through his word, what is on his heart for justice in society.。
So that we can align our hearts with that.。
Does that sound good?。
Yes.。
Okay, thank you.。
So last week, we kicked off our God of Justice sermon series.。
And in that series, we are in that message, we looked at the redemptive grand narrative。
of scripture.。
And we saw that when we look at that narrative, that we can discover God's heart for justice.。
And we also said that it is this narrative that gives us the reason, the motivation and。
the inspiration to carry out the vision of God's justice that he has for his people.。
And to do that as individuals, but to also do that as a church family together.。
And so when I, as I presented it, that narrative to you, we had some images.。
I want to take you to those images.。
So here you see we were created for good.。
So God created us, we looked at Genesis.。
There was four relational contexts that we looked at.。
It was about a relation between us and God, us and ourselves, us and others, us and creation.。
And we said that everything was well, there was shalom, there was peace, and these relationships。
were flourishing and they were thriving.。
But then something happened.。
We said that sin entered the world and there was a breakdown in all those four relationships.。
We decided to rebel against God, and this is repeated by every single human being, even。
to this point, that we rebel against God.。
There's self-preservation over helping others.。
So we look out for ourselves first, and this is the default that we find ourselves in right。
now.。
And we looked at how these four relationships, how they're broken down, a relationship with。
God broke down, with ourselves, with others and creation.。
But then we said that God did not leave creation, he did not leave us in this mess, because。
that was not what he created us for.。
And there's a longer story of redemption, but we said that it culminates in Jesus' coming,。
that the righteous died for the unrighteous, for the wicked, for the sinners, which is。
all of us.。
There's brokenness in our lives where we seek out what is good for us at the cost of other。
people, and we sin against God, we sin against others, and we need Jesus to forgive us, to。
restore us.。
And so he came, he laid down his life so that we can become the kind of good that he desires。
for us, that we can become righteous and just people.。
And so this relationship between us and God is restored.。
But then with that, it is not just about us and Jesus.。
That is the most important thing, but it's not just about that.。
Being a Christian, being a person that believes in the gospel, it involves all four dimensions。
of this relational context, because God wants to restore all of them, and he wants us, his。
people to be part of it.。
So we said that we were sent together to heal, that the church of Jesus has been sent out。
by Jesus to bring healing into society, into all these facets.。
So let me talk briefly about that.。
We want to see relationships between people and God restored.。
We want to help people find their way back to God.。
We want to see relationships between people themselves restored, their identity, that。
they have peace even within themselves, which believe that God is the one who gives that.。
We want to see relationship between us and creation restored, because instead of being。
rulers and having dominion over creation in a way that honors God, that reflects his character,。
we have exploited creation, we have destroyed creation, and God wants us to be good stewards.。
He wants to restore that relationship so that we contribute to its flourishing, to its thriving.。
And then finally, we also are sent out to restore relationships between each other,。
between us and others.。
And that happens on an individual level, like one-on-one, but also on a societal level,。
where we want to see those relationships flourish and thrive.。
We want to address injustices and issues where we make other people's issues our issues,。
because we want them to live out all of God's purposes and not be squished down by society,。
by policies, by whatever else is going on, and so that all people can experience shalom。
and flourish and thrive.。
And so that's what we are sent out as church to heal.。
God hasn't trusted us with this mission.。
And so this is something that is super important.。
And actually earlier, as Sherry was leading worship, I was thinking about this, that this。
just happens not because we try harder.。
This is not homework.。
No, you need to try harder.。
This is because the Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit, moves within our hearts and leads。
us to love those around us.。
And so if you're not feeling this right now, our starting point is just to pray, say, "Jesus,。
I'm not feeling this right now.。
Show me what is your will.。
Show me how to care.。
Show me how to love.。
Show me what you want to do.。
You move me."。
And so my prayer for us as a church is that we are this church that does this.。
But let me focus on what I want to briefly talk about, and that's the us and others today,。
particularly the injustices in society and God's heart for that.。
And so we're going to go to the book of Isaiah.。
Isaiah is one of the prophets in the Old Testament.。
He confronts his people.。
So I'm going to set the context.。
He confronted his people, God's people, Israel, who were set apart to be righteous and just,。
but they were failing in that.。
So he confronts his people through the prophet, and he speaks into their lives, and he says。
some things that are quite disturbing.。
And he's God's mouthpiece, so he's saying what God wants to say to his people.。
He's saying that he does not take pleasure in their worship.。
Their offerings are meaningless, and he hates it.。
Whoa.。
Can you imagine God saying that to us?。
What's going on?。
You know, what's happening here?。
And that's what we're going to look at.。
We're going to look at the reasons.。
So the first year in Isaiah 1, 15 through 17, it says this, "When you spread out your。
hands in prayer, I hide my eyes from you.。
Even when you offer many prayers, I'm not listening.。
Your hands are full of blood."。
So we see, again, Israel is in this worship context, and God says, "I don't care about。
your prayers.。
I'm not listening.。
It doesn't matter how much you pray."。
But the reason is because their lives, their Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and。
so forth, their lives does not honor God.。
In their day-to-day actions, they're not giving God worship.。
You know, they're living unrighteous lives.。
And so God confronts them, and we're actually even told, we get a hint at what's going on.。
We don't know all the details, but it says, "Your hands are full of blood."。
Now this, of course, can straight up mean murder, that they have blood on their hands,。
but it can also entail being indirectly involved in the injustices that are happening in society,。
that they're just focused on their own life, and they don't care what's going on with their。
neighbors and with other people.。
And so God implicates them.。
He says, "Your neighbors are also your responsibility.。
It's not just about you and me.。
It's also about you and me and others."。
And God calls out Israel for not caring for their neighbors, because that is part of what。
it means to be the people of God, is to be about others, and to care about the issues。
and the challenges they're facing.。
And the same is true for us.。
As Christians, our responsibility goes beyond looking after ourselves and extends to our。
neighbors.。
It's not just me and Jesus, and that's it.。
It's me and Jesus, and me and others.。
Jesus cares about that we care about others in society.。
They're also our responsibilities.。
They're our brothers and our sisters, and we should care about what's going on in their。
lives and what injustices they face, because God cares about them.。
And as His image bearers, He wants us to be people who reflect His image, and who also。
care about those things that are going on.。
And we also have agency, there's things that we can do.。
Now for most of us, I think the challenge is that, for one, we're just busy, so we don't。
think about it.。
And then our default is that we take care of ourselves, maybe our family, our friends,。
and we might even not know what's going on.。
You know, what are the injustices and the issues right now in Hong Kong or in other。
countries?。
You know, what is going on?。
But God is saying, "This is our responsibility."。
And so then there's something that God does in verse 16, so let me continue.。
He calls them, He says, "Wash and make yourself clean.。
Take your evil deeds out of my sight.。
Stop doing wrong."。
So in other words, He calls them to repent, to turn around, to change their ways, to stop。
doing what they're doing, to start caring for their neighbors, to start caring about。
the injustices in society.。
And He calls them to turn around, so repentance always means that there's sorrow, that we。
realize there's conviction.。
We say, "I'm sorry, God," but it's not just enough to say sorry and then keep doing what。
you're doing.。
It's actually changing our ways, changing our lives, and living in a different way.。
And so He's saying, "Change the way you live."。
And then He tells them in verse 17, so we're going to look at that.。
He tells them how He wants them to live.。
And He says this, "Learn to do right, seek justice, defend oppressed, take up the cause。
of the fatherless, plead the case of the widow."。
And those are actually things that God does, what He's asking His people to do.。
He does take up the cause, He does plead, He does defend, and He wants us, His people,。
to do the same thing.。
Two things real quick that stood out to me.。
First, learn to do right.。
We don't actually automatically know what it means to do right.。
It actually takes time to learn and understand what it means to do right in God's eyes.。
That means we need to get to know His word, what God's word says about our neighbors.。
It means we need to understand injustice issues in our society.。
That means we learn from organizations like we're going to do from Branches of Hope.。
It means we learn from people who are experiencing these injustices, that we actually understand。
them, that we can have compassion, that we can enter into them.。
It means that we also can discern God's will, what His purpose is, and what it means to。
administer justice.。
And then, of course, we also need to learn how to defend, how to take up, and how to。
plead.。
How do you do that in Hong Kong?。
And what does that look like?。
And the second thing that stood out to me was seek justice.。
So we're not just meant to let the issues come to us.。
We're actually, as the body of Christ, as a church, meant to actively figure out who。
are the oppressed, who are the ones that are marginalized, and what can we do about it.。
And to seek justice also means to discern God's will for this group of people that are。
facing these situations.。
And then it also means action.。
To seek justice means action.。
It's not just talking beautifully, but it's then actually working out, fleshing out, how。
do we put things in action?。
How do we plead their case?。
How do we help?。
How do we change?。
How do we contribute to the shalom of society?。
And so that's what we're going to look at today.。
We're going to hear from Branches of Hope here in a minute.。
Right now, in just a moment, we're going to watch a video from Pastor Tony Reed.。
He's actually with us today.。
I know he doesn't want attention, but okay, do you mind giving us a little wave?。
There he is.。
Thank you.。
So for those of you who don't know, Tony is one of the founding pastors of the Vine Church,。
and you've seen John a lot, and so he, together with John, they co-pastored.。
And so he's going to share with us about the origin story of how Branches of Hope came。
to be.。
So let's watch this video.。
Let's do that now.。
I guess when we went into it at first, we were fairly simple in terms of our thinking。
of what we were trying to do.。
As we continued to understand what we were about, we had to provide a much wider range。
of services from financial support and resettlement, doing research, social engagement, empowerment,。
and in fact, a whole range of services that are suitable for marginalized communities.。
Social justice has been part of the church for a long time, right from the beginnings.。
But when we were just a small community within the basement of a hotel, meeting on Sundays。
only with maybe about 80 or 90 people, it was hard for us to put that into practice.。
But several years later, by the time we'd moved into our own premises, we realized that。
we had perhaps better facilities to offer what we would describe as a 24/7 service.。
And at that time, God provided an opportunity for us.。
Quite amazing.。
We had this letter from an asylum seeker who was being detained at the time, and he asked。
us if we would come and visit him.。
And so, of course, we felt this was the right thing to do to respond well to it.。
And we went to see him.。
We went through all the procedures of getting in and understanding how all of that worked.。
And we developed a relationship with him, visited him regularly.。
So when it came for the time for him to be released and others to be released, they asked。
if they could come to our church.。
And we said, "Yes, of course, we'd be delighted if you came."。
And the ministry of working with the asylum seekers has now grown into the ROAD program,。
which is part of Branches of Hope.。
We were asked to host a gala performance of a documentary film produced by another NGO,。
which showed the difficulties and issues of sex trafficking in various parts of the world.。
And when we saw this, we were quite astonished because the understanding of what is involved。
in sex trafficking was not generally understood at that time.。
We soon began to realize just the trauma and the grooming that went on and just the difficulty。
that girls had who were brought into and forced to provide services in that area.。
And so after we had watched this, we began to ask the question, "What is happening in。
Hong Kong?。
How is this related to what's going on in Hong Kong?"。
We formed a small movement within the church, I guess it was, of people who were interested。
in trying to work with people who had been subject to trafficking or to exploitation.。
And as a result of that, an organization called Stop Trafficking of People was formed and。
eventually came under the direction and heading of Branches of Hope.。
Branches of Hope is the Vine community's investment to the city of Hong Kong.。
It is basically our witness to the truth and the vitality of the gospel.。
And so it is important in that sense that we provide something which is a visible evidence。
of what we believe.。
Well I ask the congregation to listen carefully to the work and the experience of Branches。
of Hope today.。
And as you consider this, to ask the Holy Spirit to guide you and to give generously。
so that this work can continue and that Branches of Hope get the support and the assistance。
that they need to do the work which is vital to us.。
You know, I love just hearing the story of how Branches of Hope got started.。
And it's amazing, right?。
It starts small and then as we pay attention to one individual and then learn about what's。
going on, you know, then we can open our heart to God and what God wants to do.。
But right now I'm super excited to welcome Alex up.。
Let's give him a warm welcome.。
He is the executive director of Branches of Hope.。
He also brought a team, so I also want to say hi to the team.。
Hi team.。
Yes.。
Thank you so much for being here today and also all the volunteers who volunteer with。
Branches of Hope as well.。
So I have a question for you, Alex.。
Where are you from?。
Oh, that's a trick question, isn't it?。
I am also from Germany as it happens.。
So I guess we can just do this in German now, right?。
Yeah.。
Everybody's cool with that?。
Yeah.。
Okay.。
Yeah.。
No, so I, yeah, I'm always excited to, you know, see Alex and chat a little German, but。
we'd love to hear if you can tell us a little bit about Branches of Hope, your involvement。
with it, you know, what you're doing there, what brought you here today?。
Yeah, thank you.。
So well, long story short, what brought me here, but here being Hong Kong, is my lovely。
wife Jennifer.。
She's been in Hong Kong for almost 18 years and she went on a sabbatical in 2014 and well,。
she basically brought me back.。
So that's how I ended up here.。
I have a career with international humanitarian agencies, the Red Cross, Caritas and so on。
and so forth.。
So when Jennifer said, well, you know, put her foot down and said, you know, family,。
marital life, you're coming to Hong Kong, I said, okay.。
And it was actually quite a natural fit to be blessed with the opportunity of joining。
Branches of Hope.。
My wife has been coming to the Vine Church for a long time, so we were already aware。
of the great work that the church does and obviously by extension Branches of Hope.。
And when this opportunity came up, I obviously jumped at the chance.。
Yeah, awesome.。
Well, we have a lot of people here who are not that familiar with Branches of Hope.。
So maybe you can tell us about Branches of Hope in a nutshell, give us just a little。
bit of an overview of what you guys do.。
Yeah, sure.。
I'd love to.。
I mean, just to expand on what Tony had mentioned in the video, really in a nutshell, Branches。
of Hope was established to be the justice expression of the Vine Church.。
It was basically taking what had been established as a ministry and supercharging it with the。
possibilities of a nonprofit organization.。
So we have two programs.。
We have the Refugee Opportunity and Development Program, which serves, as the name suggests,。
refugees and asylum seekers.。
And then we also have the Stop Trafficking of People Program or STOP, which serves those。
who are experiencing situations of trafficking or also labor exploitation.。
Although these are two very different communities, we have a unified approach the way that we。
do our work, which we call the three pillars of service.。
Those three pillars are care, empowerment, and social change.。
I think care is quite self-explanatory, but I'll get to that in a minute.。
But really, for us, the core is empowerment.。
We believe in the self-agency of the people that we work with.。
It's very important for us to make sure that, as our motto suggests, we restore dignity,。
justice, and hope.。
So giving people that dignity and making sure that they can be seen as a whole person and。
have the ability to do things independently is very, very close to our heart.。
We do that in a number of different ways.。
But we also realize that a lot of the marginalized group that we do serve, if you're not coming。
alongside of them to address their material needs, it's very difficult for them to be。
in a place where they can even consider empowerment and personal development.。
And so that's where care comes in.。
And then last but not least, if we aren't really telling their story, not just seeking。
them out, but ultimately letting others know of the issues that they're facing, which we。
do through social change, again, we would not be doing them full justice.。
So that's kind of what we do.。
Our mission is to restore dignity, justice, and hope, so that's where the motto comes。
from.。
And our vision is that all vulnerable and marginalized individuals and communities in。
Hong Kong will have equal access to resources and opportunities that allow them to realize。
their dreams and give them a voice in society.。
So in the origin story, you heard that the Vine and at BOH, that there was a relationship.。
Maybe you can tell us a little about that relationship, what that looks like now.。
Yeah, I mean, we're still very, very closely aligned in many respects.。
I mean, just physically, essentially, right?。
I mean, we share office space with the Vine in Wan Chai and are very, very fortunate to。
do that.。
But even though we're an independent organization, we share the same Christian faith, so ultimately。
we have the same values, we're built on the same DNA, you can say.。
And there's formal and informal ways that that actually is strengthened.。
Normally, we have our own board of directors, but actually half of the directors on our。
board are current or former elders of the Vine Church.。
So we make sure that in terms of our vision, in terms of our direction, we're very, very。
closely aligned.。
But beyond that, we're extraordinarily fortunate that the Vine continues also to tie to us,。
which is a major advantage for us compared to other organizations.。
It's some of the things that allows us to be as generous as we are in the services that。
we provide.。
I'll talk a little bit about our STAR program, for example.。
That's a financial assistance program that's 100% in and 100% out.。
We don't take a cut from that because we have the support from the Vine Church, right?。
That's really important.。
And then, of course, the congregation.。
I mean, the biggest source of support in terms of private donors or volunteers or other people。
who come and serve alongside us is the congregation.。
So those are all the different levels that we're so closely aligned.。
Thank you for sharing us more about that relationship.。
We're also excited for Branches of Hope to get more involved here in Yinhlong.。
And so there's been conversations around that.。
I think later on, we're going to hear a little bit about it as well.。
But right now, you mentioned ROAD and STOP.。
Could you tell us a little bit more about what they are so we can understand?。
Yeah.。
So I think just starting with ROAD, then.。
So through the ROAD program, we've served several hundred refugees and asylum seekers.。
In fact, we have over 1,400 registered with us in the system.。
That represents almost 10% of the overall refugee and asylum-seeking population here。
in Hong Kong.。
Maybe you're asking yourself, what is a refugee, right?。
So refugees are people who have fled for one reason or another.。
Could be persecution, could be war, could be other reasons.。
They're a home country and are seeking protection in a third country, right?。
So that's what brings people to Hong Kong.。
The thing about Hong Kong, though, is it's really important to understand is that if。
somebody comes to Hong Kong to become an asylum seeker, to become a refugee, they cannot stay。
in Hong Kong.。
Hong Kong is not a signatory to the refugee conventions, which means that even if they。
become recognized, that their claim is legitimate, that they are recognized as a refugee, eventually。
they will need to be resettled to a third country.。
There's no integration in Hong Kong, right?。
Unfortunately, though, the reality is that the vast majority, over 99%, in fact, are。
not recognized as refugees and will eventually be returned to their country of origin.。
And that can be a very painful experience because by that time they might have been。
in Hong Kong for 10, 15, 20 years even.。
Their kids might have been going to school here, et cetera.。
And in that time also, they're not allowed to work.。
They get some modest stipends from the government, but they're not enough.。
And so that's really where the road steps in, right?。
The road program steps in to bridge those gaps, to make sure that people have the resources。
that they need to live a dignified life while they're here in Hong Kong.。
We work with them to prepare them for the life after Hong Kong.。
So we've been really working on something what we call durable solutions.。
So this is the idea of helping people, either if they wanted to repatriate themselves to。
their home country or if they want to figure out ways of moving to a third country, we。
assist with those.。
We have casework, so helping people find referrals to hospitals, find referrals to other services,。
material donations, food.。
We help with figuring out shelter options, all of those things.。
So that's the care side.。
Under empowerment, we also do some limited adult education, which is actually where Yunlong。
comes into play.。
So we've got Jill over there.。
Hi, Jill.。
She's phenomenal.。
She's actually set up a training program here with some of the community members to teach。
them how to sustain themselves on $40 a day, which is all they have for food.。
So you can imagine it's quite challenging to purchase food and cook food on such a budget.。
So those are the things that we do.。
And last but not least, like I said, everything gears towards making sure that when that final。
step comes in Hong Kong, that they're ready for it.。
Yeah.。
You know, like as we talked about earlier, this is really a great opportunity to learn。
about issues that maybe we don't know that much about.。
So thank you so much for sharing that with us.。
Now there is also the STOP program.。
Can you tell us a little bit more about what that's about?。
Yeah, of course.。
So the STOP trafficking of people program is perhaps a little bit more tricky to wrap。
your head around, right?。
I mean, what is even human trafficking?。
It's a form of modern slavery, and that sounds very scary.。
It is very, very scary.。
It involves the recruitment, transportation, or receipt of a person by means of force,。
fraud, or coercion for the purpose of exploitation.。
So this is a very formal explanation.。
And exploitation, I think, is more easily understood.。
It's the unfair treatment of someone to benefit from their work or position of vulnerability.。
Now for STOP, for our understanding, we understand human trafficking to exist on a spectrum,。
on a scale, right?。
You may have heard in the past, in other contexts, these sort of sensationalized stories of people。
who are kidnapped and brought across the border and then made to work in some sort of labor。
camp or something like that.。
That does exist, but that's not really what we deal with on a nine to five at STOP.。
I mean, what we really focus on is more the lower echelons of that, which starts with。
relatively benign forms of exploitation, right?。
So for example, if you have somebody who comes to Hong Kong as a migrant worker, and they。
are given a contract to work as a driver, for example, and then they are told, "Oh,。
but by the way, when you're off duty, you also need to go work in this restaurant,"。
or "You also need to go work in this construction site, and if you refuse, then we will cancel。
your visa, we will cancel your contract."。
That's a form of coercion, right?。
They're doing something that they didn't come here to do, and whether or not they're paid。
for it is beside the point.。
The fact that they're being threatened in order to do the work, that's where the exploitation。
starts.。
That's the beginning of that spectrum of human trafficking.。
And it can get worse, right?。
They can then maybe have their passport withheld or other sorts of abuse in that respect.。
And so what we do is we step in when that kind of exploitation helps, takes place.。
So we help people to, first of all, understand what their rights are and how they can seek。
help if something like this happens to them.。
And to those who are facing those kind of situations, we make sure that they also have。
the material support that they do.。
Oftentimes the help that we provide is the only way that people are even able to access。
justice to begin with.。
You can imagine if somebody's been, let's say for example a migrant domestic worker。
is scammed, their identity is stolen or they've been duped into doing some illegal act, their。
employer cancels their contract, and then they've got two weeks technically to find。
new work.。
If you don't have support in that moment, there's no way that you can address those。
claims against you.。
There's no way that you can access justice.。
So we make sure that we work together with people to make sure that they know how to。
do that and that they have the resources to do that.。
And last but not least, I'm also quite proud, the STOP team have really established themselves。
as a source of information and technical know-how.。
So they do a lot of research actually that informs the work of other organizations that。
work in the same sector.。
Best practices and policies and things like that.。
So that's kind of what we do with STOP.。
Yeah, so that's amazing work.。
But I think it's also a lot for us to take in, right?。
Learning about road, learning about STOP, justice issues that are happening here in。
Hong Kong.。
So to make it a little bit more tangible, Branches of Hope has prepared a couple of。
videos for us.。
One is from Ali, who's part of the ROAD program, and then there's also Anna, who's part of。
the STOP program.。
So let's watch that and then let's get back together after that.。
My name is Ali.。
I am from Yemen.。
When I come Hong Kong, I need help for asylum seeker, for some homes.。
How can we live here?。
Difficult government now give enough for rent, for food, everything.。
Not enough.。
This problem.。
And the asylum seeker cannot work.。
If I go work, maybe I go jail, catch me police or migration.。
This is problem.。
And I worry for my family.。
I have three baby here.。
Yeah, because this big problem.。
Some friend, he tell me, you can go buy insurance.。
After I go, after.。
Help me.。
I give extra money for rent, for something, for school.。
Yeah, have class English because we boring in Hong Kong, no work, no.。
I am happy because help me.。
Divine help for some money every month.。
We find.。
My name is Anna.。
I'm from the Philippines.。
I came to Hong Kong.。
My first time is 2019.。
I work with my employer for four years and three months.。
I came here through my sister-in-law.。
She helped me to come here.。
I have been involved with criminal exploitation.。
The police came in my employer's house and then arrest me.。
Some people, these people, I don't know, they use my name to use it in illegal, criminal。
what is.。
That's why I'm involved with this case.。
Yeah, I lose my job.。
I'm so grateful and blessed because I found my where to live because I don't have job.。
I cannot afford to stay in the boarding house.。
And then after that, my co-shelter introduced me about stock.。
I go to the office and then ask for help.。
The basic necessities, they help us.。
They help me.。
And then I also share with my, I can also share some with my co-shelter.。
Not only financial, also emotional.。
They are very, very kind.。
They help me a lot.。
That's why I'm in good now.。
I always thank God because even though I face this struggle, I'm about to face it because。
the people surround me, especially stock.。
I feel, I feel not alone.。
We can always rely on them.。
Yeah, it's sobering to learn about those hardships and challenges they face.。
Even as somebody who doesn't speak Cantonese and just thinking, how do you even get help。
and support?。
So thank you so much for the work that you guys do.。
Maybe you can tell us how can we partner with you?。
How can we support the work that you're doing?。
Yeah, I'd love to.。
Actually, one of the things I'd like to point out just before I get to that is, I wonder。
if you notice that Ali in his sharing, he actually refers to the Vine Church, right?。
And I think this kind of goes back to the point I was making at the beginning.。
A lot of the community members that we serve, they also come to the Vines Fellowship.。
We have a refugee fellowship called Arise on Wednesdays.。
And so we have a lot of crossover between those who are coming for fellowship and those。
who that we are helping with the services through Branches of Hope.。
And for them, there's no difference, right?。
It's the same organization.。
It's the Vine Church that's helping.。
And I think it just shows how closely aligned we actually are on those fronts, right?。
But yeah, in terms of how we can work together, honestly, I'd like to highlight four things.。
Prayer is the first.。
Faith in action is the second.。
Being our advocate is the third.。
And fourth is financial support in general.。
Now with prayer, what I'd like to kind of come back to is, again, this idea of the origins。
of Branches of Hope and our identity as a Christian organization, right?。
You know, in Luke chapter 18, verse 2 to 8, Jesus tells his disciples a parable of the。
ungodly judge to make them understand that they should always pray and not give up.。
And in Mark chapter 11, verse 24, it says, "Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask in。
prayer, believe that you received it and it will be yours."。
This is fundamental to what we do.。
We understand that without God, without the Holy Spirit moving among people, supporting。
what we do, providing the resources that we need, there is no moving forward.。
And so we always ask for people to pray on our behalf, to pray for the communities that。
we serve, to pray that the resources that we need come through.。
But of course, faith in action is an important one.。
I think James has a lot to say about faith in action as well, but fundamentally, there's。
lots of opportunities for people to come and volunteer at Branches of Hope as well.。
In fact, we've got a football tournament coming up.。
I'm very sad not to see you play, Tim.。
We're in the tournament, right?。
I am playing.。
You are playing?。
I am playing, yeah.。
Oh, okay.。
I take that back.。
I might not be good, but I am playing.。
We'll just make sure that you stand in front of the goals.。
I'll just lay in front of the goal and block it.。
But yeah, look, I mean, if you want to do something fun on the 11th of October, please。
come sign up as a volunteer.。
We've got plenty of things that you can do.。
In general, when we have events, we love having volunteers work with us, but also for other。
things.。
I mean, Jill, again, is a fantastic example of what you can do if you want to serve the。
community.。
Come talk to us.。
We're very happy to support initiatives of this kind.。
So yeah, faith in action, right?。
Then being our advocate.。
Today is a really great example of taking a moment, and we're really very, very grateful。
for this opportunity also to speak here, but taking a moment to understand what issues。
are out there, seeking out, again, what the issues are.。
Because if you know, then you can tell others about it as well.。
You can follow us on social media.。
You can share our social media stuff.。
Sign up for the newsletter.。
Continue to educate yourself about what's going on and tell others about it.。
If you work for a company, if you work at a school, invite us to come and talk to students,。
to colleagues.。
We love doing that kind of stuff as well, just to be able to get more people to know。
about what's going on.。
And then of course, financial support.。
I mean, obviously, we cannot keep going.。
We cannot keep doing what we do.。
We cannot keep the lights on without the support of individuals like yourselves to make sure。
that we can keep doing what we do.。
We're actually just in the process of launching a new financial assistance program in 2025。
called the STAR program.。
This is essentially superseding a previous program.。
Some of you may even know Secret Angel program, if you're familiar with that.。
But basically, we provide monthly allowances to the community members.。
And this is what I meant before, right?。
It's 100% in and out.。
So you can sign up for that.。
There's other ways that you can also support our programs, whether it's making a monthly。
donation or a one-off donation.。
So there's all of that kind of stuff as well.。
And please do come say hello to my wonderful colleagues over there afterwards.。
We've also got some very cool merch.。
I mean, if anybody likes the socks.。
Yeah.。
Nice.。
So yeah, please do come and check it out.。
I just bought them before and put them on.。
But I hope it's all going to be good because I didn't wash them.。
I like them.。
So we heard basically four things that we can do, right?。
We can pray.。
And as we've been sharing, prayer really opens us up to the work of the Holy Spirit and God。
works through prayers.。
So we can pray for branches of hope.。
We can put our faith in action.。
We can volunteer and seek out opportunities to serve with branches of hope.。
We also can support the STAR program or donate.。
And I feel like I'm forgetting one.。
Those are all four.。
Prayer, faith in action, education.。
Education advocating.。
That was it.。
And it's interesting with that because when I've brought up talking about human trafficking。
to others in Hong Kong, a lot of times there's a response, "No, there is no such thing here."。
And so there really is a chance to advocate and to educate as well.。
That's super powerful.。
So is there anything else that you would like to share with us?。
Yeah.。
I guess, like you said, we've covered a lot of ground today.。
I'd like to come back again to sort of like the fundamentals a little bit, right?。
And to talk a little bit about our motto, dignity, justice, hope.。
And how those relate specifically to the three pillars of service that I mentioned, right?。
So we've got care, empowerment, and social change.。
Care restores hope.。
When we care for somebody, we give them hope.。
Hope is when we have friends around us.。
Empowerment restores dignity.。
When people are empowered, they are encouraged to be self-sufficient.。
Again, this self-agency of the people that we serve.。
And that restores their dignity.。
It allows them to care for themselves instead of depending on a handout.。
And the restoration of dignity comes when we work together and support each other.。
And then last but not least, social change restores justice.。
When our society is reformed to protect the marginalized, we actually restore justice.。
And this is kind of what you were saying in your message earlier as well, right?。
Like we, as Christians, we're called to seek it out, right?。
We're supposed to make this world a better place, right?。
And so social change is what restores justice.。
And I think, you know, apart from us being very grateful for being here, it's also an。
invitation to all of you to be part of that process so that we can together restore dignity,。
justice, and hope.。
I love this.。
Thank you so much, Alex, for being here.。
Let's give Alex some thanks.。
[APPLAUSE]。
Thanks.。
I would love to actually invite you all to stand.。
And I also want to invite the worship team to come up.。
And we heard today, you know, these ways that we can respond to what has been shared.。
We actually took some time to learn about injustices that are happening in our city。
and how we can just love and support and make other people's challenges our challenges,。
other people's issues our issue, right?。
And I would love for every one of us to think of one thing, you know, one of these four。
things that they shared that we can do, right?。
Because our faith is about action.。
If you want to pray, pray.。
If you want to advocate and share about how you can help, do that.。
If you want to put faith and action through serving, you know, do that.。
And if you want to give financially, support them in their work to do, let's do that.。
Let me pray for us.。
Jesus, we thank you that, yeah, you came and you died and rose so that we can be different。
people, that we can be people who love you but also love our neighbors and who care about。
those who are suffering, those who are experiencing injustices and that you have sent us out to。
heal and advocate and to speak up for and to provide and to care for those in need.。
But we also know that it's you moving through your spirit.。
So Holy Spirit, I just pray that you will move in our church, that you help us to be。
a church that does justice here in the city, that seeks it out and learns to do right.。
And will you guide us in that?。
So I pray all this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
