I am so pleased to be with you this morning.。
I get to do two of my favorite things at the same time.。
And the first is to be here in Vainiung Long.。
Sandra and I really, I mean really, really love this church.。
And the second is to have the opportunity to preach from the Book of Acts.。
And especially the second chapter.。
Acts 2 is a powerful chapter that introduces the Holy Spirit's dynamic presence in the。
life of believers and demonstrates the transformation it brings.。
In this pivotal passage we witness the outpouring of the Holy Spirit on the disciples.。
A moment that serves as the essential catalyst for Christian community formation.。
And what word do we commonly use for Christian community?。
Yes, the word church.。
Going back to some of the words we sang earlier in the song King of Kings.。
I put them on the screen.。
And the church of Christ was born and the Spirit lit the flame.。
These 13 words spell out exactly the message I want to bring you this morning.。
And the church of Christ was born and the Spirit lit the flame.。
I am so glad to have the opportunity to preach on this passage in Acts 2.。
As what we will see is that the church community as we know it today is a direct result, a。
consequence of the outpouring of the Holy Spirit.。
I'm also glad that to allow me to preach on Acts chapter 2 that you had Elder Deborah。
preach on chapter 1 last week.。
I particularly love the toothpaste illustration.。
What Deborah told us that Acts chapter 1 was all about waiting.。
The disciples were told, "Wait for the promise of the Holy Spirit."。
It was also about preparing.。
But the key to the formation of the Christian community that we call church is right there。
in chapter 2 verse 1.。
Look at it.。
When the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place.。
I want to spend a little time, more than a little time on this one verse.。
Let's look at that expression, "all together in one place."。
In its original Greek form is homophumed.。
Now homophumed is a Greek word meaning with one mind, with one accord.。
It signifies a state of unity, harmony and shared passion amongst a group of people.。
In fact it absolutely 100% represents the picture you had of the building blocks.。
Homophumed is a combination of two Greek words.。
Homos which means same and thumos, passion, emotion.。
It signifies and suggests a group acting with a shared passion and a shared purpose.。
Therefore homophumed is used to describe the disciples being in one place, both physically。
and spiritually.。
Homophumed represents a powerful expression of Christian community where individuals are。
bound together by shared faith and purpose, striving towards a common goal.。
It emphasises the importance of unity and harmony within the body of Christ.。
Church, the good news is that we are already united through the body and blood of Jesus。
Christ, wonderfully similarised every time we take communion.。
But vineyard long, vineyard long, I'm not here today to tickle your ears.。
I'm not even here today to preach a good sermon.。
I am calling you today as a precursor to receiving the Holy Spirit.。
I am calling you to oneness.。
If we are to fulfil our call to be a relevant Christian community, if we are to fulfil our。
dream, our vision to explore uncharted territories, we need to be one.。
I want to remind you what the Apostle Paul says in Ephesians.。
You've heard me say this before.。
There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to one hope when you were。
called.。
One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all who is over all and through。
all and in all.。
Today, today my friends, we will see what happened as a consequence of being one.。
In short, they received the Holy Spirit.。
And church, we need to receive.。
We need to receive.。
Let me explain.。
Let's assume today I was to write you a cheque.。
You remember cheques?。
I write you a cheque for a million dollars, but it always stays in my hand.。
It's useless.。
Oh yeah, you can talk about the amazing million dollar cheque.。
Have deep philosophical and theological questions about why I would choose to write you such。
a cheque.。
But you have to receive it and put it in your own account.。
Now I forgot to say, pray like mad that it doesn't bounce.。
But somehow that explodes the illustration.。
And so after last week's message on waiting, I'm going to be talking about and praying。
for receiving.。
Let's look at this again.。
When the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place.。
Suddenly a sound like the blowing of a violent wind came from heaven and filled the whole。
house where they were sitting.。
They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that separated and came to rest on each of。
them.。
All of them, all of them, all of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak。
in other tongues as the Spirit enabled them.。
I want you to look for a moment at the scene.。
Jerusalem was filled with visitors.。
It was the feast of Pentecost.。
God fearing Jews from all over the known world gathering to give thanks for the first of。
the harvest and to celebrate the giving of the law to Moses on Mount Sinai.。
And it is here, not in a secret stable or a lonely mountaintop, but in the middle of。
a city bursting with people.。
Does that sound familiar?。
We might translate this in Cantonese as Mongkok.。
People who have come to seek Him, it is there that God shows up.。
God creator of the universe who has existed from beginning, the beginning of time is physically。
present by His Holy Spirit.。
Let's look at what we see.。
Wind, wind from heaven fills the whole house.。
Wind just like Elijah felt in the cave.。
Fire, like Moses saw at the bush that didn't burn up, like the fire that consumed Elijah's。
soaking sacrifice.。
And God speaks, not through a prophet or a priest or a pastor, but through 120 uneducated,。
uncultured Galileans so that everyone can hear and understand in their own language.。
It's the story of the tower of Babel in reverse.。
You know the story of Babel, the curse of Babel, how humanity, originally speaking just。
one language, was punished for their ambition to build a tower reaching heaven.。
The curse was broken.。
When the visitors eventually go home, they will return changed, taking with them the。
experience of the Spirit, the Spirit living in them, the law written in their hearts,。
the first fruits of new life in Christ.。
The first thing we notice is this, they all received the Holy Spirit.。
I'm going to give you a free English lesson this morning.。
Alright, ready?。
The word "all" means all.。
Everybody!。
You know, you come to church, "I'm sure that person next to me would receive the Holy Spirit."。
No, they all received the Holy Spirit.。
And they all, that's that word again, they all received the gift of tongues.。
Now I want to explain this a little bit, put simply, the gift of tongues is a gift given。
to believers by the Holy Spirit where a person speaks in a language that they haven't learned.。
This can either happen in a known language which was happened on the day of Pentecost,。
or most commonly an angelic language allowing us to speak to God without going through the。
operation of the human mind.。
And the good news this morning, so can we.。
So can we.。
I'm going to give you the key, I'm going to give you the key right now.。
The key is asking.。
Matthew 7, 7, "Ask and you might receive."。
Ask, and the people who have been coming to church for two years might receive.。
Ask and you will receive.。
Just read on and see what happened after all of them, all of them received the Spirit and。
all of them were speaking in tongues.。
Verse 5, "Now they were staying in Jerusalem, God fearing Jews from every nation under heaven.。
When they heard this sound, the crowd came together and bewildered, because each one。
heard their own language being spoken.。
Utterly amazed, they asked, "Aren't all of these who are speaking Galileans?"。
Now how is it that each of us hears them in our native language?。
When the crowd hears the disciples miraculously speaking in their own language, they ask,。
"What does this mean?"。
I'll tell you what it means.。
It is a profound work of the Holy Spirit.。
As I said earlier, it is a reverse of the curse of Babel.。
I'd like to think of it actually also as a gift of ears, because we read that each one。
of them heard them in their native language.。
My friends, as we lean into our uncharted season, we must understand this profound work。
of the Spirit.。
God is faithful to his promise.。
Jesus has ascended and sent us the Holy Spirit, bringing us new possibilities as God's power。
works through community.。
The miracle of Pentecost demonstrates the universal reach of the Gospel, crossing barriers。
of culture, language, and background from day one.。
Look at this.。
Parthians, Medes, and Elamites, residents of Mesopotamia, Judea, Cappadocia, Pontus。
and Asia, Phrygia, Pamphylia, Egypt, and the parts of Libya near Cyrene, visitors from。
Rome, both Jews and converts to Judaism, Cretans and Arabs, we hear them declaring the wonders。
of God in our own tongues.。
These verses highlight the diversity of the crowd and the miraculous nature of this event.。
I wish I could have been there.。
It must have been something really special.。
As we read this reaction from the crowd, amazed and perplexed, they asked one another, "What。
does this mean?"。
Some however made fun of them.。
They had too much wine.。
The mockery reveals a division in the crowd.。
Some were amazed and perplexed, while others chose to dismiss the event as mere drunkenness,。
demonstrating a lack of understanding or willingness to accept the supernatural.。
My friends, we still see this in the church today.。
A genuine move of God can be greeted with excitement and joy or of cynical scepticism.。
I have on numerous occasions witnessed both.。
But hear me when I say, the outpouring, the receiving of the Holy Spirit must not only。
make a difference to the church and individual Christians.。
And here is the foundational truth.。
There is no church without the Spirit.。
We might as well go home.。
There is no church without the Spirit.。
No community of faith without the power and the unity and the love He brings.。
I think this is important enough, I want to say it again.。
There is no church without the Spirit and no community of faith without the power, unity。
and love that He brings.。
The Spirit doesn't just enhance existing community.。
He births us into a community through our new birth in Christ.。
His work is both unifying and diversifying, breaking down barriers while bringing unique。
purposes for us as a diverse body.。
Vine year long.。
We are called to be a Spirit empowered community that draws new people into God's family and。
crosses barriers to share the good news.。
Drawing new people into the community and crossing barriers to share the good news.。
And the first difference we see happening to the disciples on receiving the Holy Spirit。
is boldness.。
I love this.。
Peter puts his hand up.。
Peter!。
Peter the denier.。
Denied Jesus three times becomes Peter the evangelist.。
Remember Jews from all over the known world are in Jerusalem for the feast of Pentecost.。
Peter takes his opportunity and begins to preach.。
I love his first statement, it raises more than a smile.。
Then Peter stood up with the eleven, raised his voice and addressed the crowd.。
Fellow Jews and all of you who live in Jerusalem, let me explain this to you.。
Listen carefully to what I say.。
These people are not drunk as you suppose.。
It's only nine in the morning.。
I love the way the message version puts this.。
These people aren't drunk as some of you suspect.。
They haven't had time to get drunk.。
It's only nine in the morning.。
Now I've got to say it was a regular practice for the Jews not to eat or drink anything。
until the third hour of the day which is nine o'clock.。
They started counting at six o'clock.。
Usually on the Sabbath or in festival occasions.。
Peter stands with the eleven apostles and addresses the crowd clarifying they are not。
drunk.。
He explains that the events unfolding are a fulfillment of a prophecy that was given。
in Joel 2 28 to 32.。
You'll be familiar with this.。
It says in the last days I will pour out my spirit on who?。
All people.。
Your sons and daughters will prophesy.。
Your young men will see visions.。
Your old men will dream dreams.。
I dream a lot these days.。
Even on my servants, both men and women, I will pour out my spirit in those days and。
they will prophesy.。
You see in the Old Testament the Holy Spirit had been given to certain people at certain。
times for certain tasks.。
But Joel's prophecy said that a time would come that the Holy Spirit would be poured。
out on all people at all times.。
Imagine Ho Sun Yee building on Sunday 28th of August at 1230pm.。
Let's take a look.。
In the last days God said I will pour out my spirit on all people.。
The emphasis is on all.。
Your sons and your daughters will prophesy.。
It is regardless of sex.。
Your young men will see visions.。
Your old men will dream dreams.。
It's regardless of age.。
Even on my servants.。
Regardless of background, race, colour, rank.。
Even on my servants, both men and women, I will pour out my spirit in those days.。
It is for everyone.。
And they will prophesy.。
In these verses it signifies that people including men and women, young and old, will speak under。
divine inspiration.。
This ability to prophesy is seen as a sign of God's spirit being poured out on all flesh.。
Now prophecy is not foretelling like a fortune teller or a soothsayer, but foretelling.。
Declaring God's word.。
I believe that we at Vine Yuen Long are called to have a prophetic voice to our neighbours。
and our community.。
What does this mean for us?。
We are called to be a spirit empowered community that draws people into God's family and crosses。
all barriers, race, age, sex, social standing, to share the good news.。
The same spirit that fell at Pentecost is at work among us today.。
Ready to form us into the community that God intends in this season.。
But I want to ask the question, what barriers is God calling us to cross?。
How can we ready our hearts to welcome those with different backgrounds?。
Peter then reminds us, directly quoting from Joel 2, 30-31, of Christ's promise to come。
again.。
We talked about it earlier, Ben, again.。
In glory for his people and for the judgment that awaits those who reject him.。
The verses on the screen describe cosmic events.。
Stars in the sky, signs on the earth, blood, fire and smoke preceding the great and glorious。
day of the Lord.。
These verses are interpreted as signs of God's judgment and the coming of God's Christ's。
kingdom.。
With the outpouring of the Holy Spirit at Pentecost being a partial fulfilment of Joel's。
prophecy.。
You see, throughout his sermon, where he quotes the prophet Joel, Peter hammers away, hammers。
away, hammers away at a single point.。
Jesus Christ is Lord and Saviour and people must put their faith in him.。
Jesus Christ is Lord and Saviour and people must put their faith in him.。
He emphasises that salvation is available to all.。
All who believe and all who call upon the name of the Lord.。
That means anyone, regardless of background or past actions, can be saved by putting their。
faith and their trust in Jesus Christ.。
I'll put a verse up there.。
Next verse.。
Let's read it all together.。
Ready?。
One, two, three.。
And everyone calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.。
That was three of you.。
Let's do it again.。
One, two, three.。
And everyone calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.。
One more free English lesson.。
Everyone means everyone.。
Close your eyes, please.。
Let's have every eye closed now.。
The band can come back.。
Just take a moment.。
Let's have every eye closed, please.。
Let's respect this moment.。
I want to give an opportunity here and now, right here and now, for this verse to become。
a reality for someone.。
If there is anybody here at this moment who is not following Christ, you wouldn't call。
yourself a Christian.。
There's good news today.。
And the good news is in this verse.。
Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.。
And just while every eye is closed, if you would like to call upon the name of the Lord。
for the first time today, maybe a friend brought you to church, maybe you don't even know why。
you're here.。
Maybe you've been coming for weeks and weeks and weeks, but haven't really made that connection。
with Jesus Christ.。
You wouldn't call yourself a Christian.。
The good news is all that can change this morning.。
If you would like to give your life to Jesus Christ, I would just like you, while every。
eye is closed, to put up your hands so I can pray for you.。
I'm not going to embarrass anyone here this morning, but if you would like to become a。
Christian this morning, if you would like to give your life to Jesus Christ, this is。
your moment.。
So just while every eye is closed, if that's you, I'd love to pray for you.。
Would you put up your hands so I can see you?。
I'm going to pray for you.。
We'll just wait for a moment.。
Thank you, Lord.。
Thank you, Lord.。
Let's stand, everybody.。
When the day of Pentecost came, all the disciples were in one place.。
One place physically, one place spiritually.。
The Holy Spirit came upon them.。
They were filled with the Holy Spirit.。
They prayed in tongues.。
The Church of Christ was born.。
Spirit lit the flame.。
I want you, if you're just comfortable, just put your hands in front of you like this to。
receive.。
We're going to ask the Holy Spirit now just to come and to fill us as individuals, as。
a church.。
Holy Spirit, come.。
Fill us with your power.。
Fill us with the boldness that Peter had.。
Fill us with the love for the people that the disciples had.。
Fill us, Lord, that you might change this community and the communities that we serve.。
Holy Spirit, we wait for you.。
Will you come?。
You may be just feeling God's peace upon you.。
You may be feeling strangely warm.。
Maybe your hands are tingling.。
You don't have to receive any of these things, but Lord is doing something in this room right。
now.。
Just receive the Holy Spirit.。
You say, "But Pastor, I was filled with the Holy Spirit five years ago."。
I'm not interested.。
Let's be filled with the Holy Spirit today and tomorrow and the day after and the day。
after.。
Let's go on being filled with the Holy Spirit.。
Holy Spirit, come.。
Touch us and fill us.。
On the day of Pentecost, the disciples all started to pray in a language they didn't。
understand.。
We call it the gift of tongues.。
If you want to receive that gift, just open your mouth and start to speak.。
Don't say A, B, C or a word.。
Don't speak in a language you know.。
Just open your mouth and allow God to work through you.。
Let's just spend a moment.。
If you want to do that, just start today.。
Come on, just be bold.。
You can afford to speak a little bit louder.。
It's amazing.。
I can see happening all around this auditorium.。
God touching people, people praying in the language of the Spirit.。
I just want to encourage you.。
We're just going to take a couple more minutes just to do this.。
I just want you to stop.。
It shows that this is something which you are in control of.。
It's not like an evil spirit that controls you and gets you to pray in a strange tongue.。
You can start or stop when you want to.。
For those of you who are a little bit doubtful, I just recommend you go home and get under。
the shower.。
Let the shower run and start to pray in tongues.。
It's good.。
It makes you so unconscious of yourself.。
Okay, let's just start to pray out again.。
All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit.。
All of them prayed in tongues.。
The news I've got for you this morning is, oh yes, it was for you.。
Being filled with the Holy Spirit was a blessing for you.。
Receiving the gift of tongues was for you.。
God hasn't got us here this morning for that.。
He's got us this morning for them out there.。
Building bridges with our community.。
I'm going to pray right now.。
The Lord that what you have done in this place this morning, what you're doing in our lives。
now, what are you going to continue to do Lord when we go home and put the shower on。
and pray in tongues?。
Lord, it's not about a church service.。
It's about a community.。
Lord would you send us out in the power of your Holy Spirit to build bridges with our。
family, the people we work with, the people we're going to meet on the MTR on the way。
home.。
There is a world out there that needs to hear the good news of Jesus.。
And the good news is this, that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.。
In a few weeks time we'll be celebrating that when we do the baptism.。
People who have given their lives to Jesus, celebrating that.。
Lord send us from this place down the stairs, out into the square, into the Yoho Mall and。
the MTR, that Hong Kong would be saved, that China would be saved, that you would allow。
us to take this Gospel, this precious Gospel to the ends of the earth.。
We pray this in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
Let's worship God together.。
