Amen, amen, amen.。
Have a seat, have a seat.。
At the beginning of this year, in the very first devotional of the year, back in our。
fasting time in January, I wrote to you of a heart that I have for this year.。
And that heart, the desire that I have, is that the Holy Spirit would come and manifest。
itself more and more in our midst than ever before, and that we would see the ministry。
of the Holy Spirit amongst us like never before.。
You know, history will tell you that in a time where the Lord calls His people to uncharted。
waters, the season that we believe that the Lord is calling the vine into right now, when。
the Lord does that, what He's talking about is moving His people into a time where they're。
out of their comfort zone, a time where it's uncomfortable for them, a time where there。
is no strategy or roadmap for what might happen ahead.。
So it's a time where we have to be heightened to the witness and the work of the Holy Spirit。
amongst us.。
I would say now more than ever, we are in need here at the Vine of the manifest power。
and the glory of the Holy Spirit.。
And one of the things that I can testify to the joy that is inside of me over this year。
has been that I've seen an increase in the work of the ministry of the Spirit amongst。
us.。
And not just in the moment like we just shared together just now in our worship, as well。
as in our prayer and the ministry out of worship.。
Although we have seen, I think we can all witness an increase in the work of the Holy。
Spirit that way.。
But I think particularly in what happens often behind the scenes, in the transformed and。
changed marriages that we've seen transformed this year, into some of the relationships。
that we know were established that were broken before the reconciliation of some personal。
relationships.。
We've seen people physically healed this year, people coming to physical healing through。
the power of prayer and the work of the Holy Spirit.。
And then last week, in the testimony of the death and resurrection of Jesus on Easter。
Sunday, we saw 28 people go down to the waters of baptism and come up because the Holy Spirit。
has done something significant in their lives in bringing them into a place of faith.。
And I believe the things that we're already seeing at the beginning of this year are just。
the tip of the iceberg.。
It's just the first fruits of what the Holy Spirit wants to continue to do and how He。
wants to continue to manifest Himself amongst us in this season of unchartened.。
And here's a thing that I'm convinced of.。
I'm convinced that the greatest manifestations and expressions of the Spirit of God on earth。
are not behind us, they're ahead of us.。
Come on church.。
Let me just say this one more time.。
But listen to this because I know it sounds like a grand statement, but let me unpack。
this a little bit for you.。
It's so easy, I think, for us as Christians, when we open the Scriptures and we see the。
incredible things that the Holy Spirit did back then in the days when the Old Testament。
was there and the days of the life and the death and resurrection of Jesus, we can look。
back on that and we can go, "Oh man, those were the days."。
Like those were the days when the Spirit was at work, when the Spirit was moving.。
Oh man, if you could take me back to any moment in history, I want to go back to the time。
where the Spirit of God was manifesting like that.。
I want to see Jesus and Peter walking on the waters.。
I want to see dead people rise to life.。
I want to see handkerchiefs that are just in the presence of Paul being placed on other。
people so that they would come to life.。
And we can have, I think as Christians, our posture towards the Holy Spirit can primarily。
be one of nostalgia.。
Like, "Oh wow, wasn't it great back then?"。
And it was great back then, amen?。
But actually what the Spirit teaches us, what the Scriptures teach us is that our expectation。
should not be, "Wow, wasn't that great back then?。
And if only we could have a little bit of that now."。
No, actually Scriptures teach us that our expectation should be for even more now.。
That actually what is ahead of us is even greater than what is behind us.。
Paul writing to the church just after the death and resurrection of Jesus, he writes。
to the church and he says, "Get your head around this, that the same Spirit that raised。
Jesus from the dead," in other words, up until that point in history, the greatest。
manifestation of the Spirit ever, he said, "That same Spirit now lives in you."。
He was saying back then when Jesus was doing His ministry, that Spirit was at work in the。
world.。
It was at work externally to us, but the same power that raised Jesus from the dead.。
Here's the crazy thing, church, it's now in you.。
It's not only reserved out now to some external thing, but it is found in the indwelling power。
of the Holy Spirit inside of you.。
And Paul's writing to his church and he's like, "Broaden your expectations, that if。
you believe that that Spirit can raise Jesus from the dead, imagine what it can do to the。
dead things in you."。
Jesus Himself taught this way.。
Jesus wrote and spoke this to the disciples, it's so beautiful.。
He says, "Man, you need this thing that I'm about to send you.。
I'm promising to send you something."。
And He says this, "You're going to do even greater things than I will do."。
In other words, Jesus is like, "Don't think about the Holy Spirit in terms of nostalgia.。
The best is ahead, not behind.。
You're going to do even greater things," He says to the church.。
"You're going to see my Spirit move in ways that you have never seen Him move."。
And this is the hunger that is inside of us here at the Vine.。
This is the thing that drives us, that we would see what's ahead of us.。
The greatest things of the Spirit are not behind you in your life, they're ahead of。
you.。
And some of you in this room need to hear that.。
You can forget everything else I'm about to say, remember that, okay?。
For some of you who came in today, you thought the best moments of your relationship with。
Jesus are in the rearview mirror.。
You think the best moments of the Spirit's manifestation in your life are behind you.。
They're not, they're ahead of you.。
This is why we're doing a new series here at the Vine today over the next seven weeks.。
We're doing a series on the Holy Spirit, because we want to raise the expectation in us.。
In uncharted times, where we're going to be out of our comfort zone and we're going to。
be in a place where we're not sure always what's happening, we're going to raise our。
expectations and the understanding and the knowledge and our holistic view of who the。
Holy Spirit is.。
Because I don't know about you, but if you're anything like me, it's very easy as Christians,。
I think, to pigeonhole our understanding of the Holy Spirit.。
To actually begin to think of the Holy Spirit specifically as maybe one type of expression。
of that Spirit.。
And often for us Christians, that comes out of our own personal experience with the Holy。
Spirit.。
So maybe we've experienced the Spirit in some way, and we begin to build a whole theology。
around the Spirit just based on maybe one way in which we've experienced Him, when actually。
the Scriptures present a much broader and a bigger understanding of who the Spirit is.。
And I think it's easy for us as Christians to hold on to just one aspect of the Spirit。
when there's so much more of the Spirit to be discovered.。
I remember the very first time I encountered the Holy Spirit.。
I was four years old.。
And as a four-year-old, my parents at those days were attending a very charismatic church。
in the south of England.。
And on this one particular Sunday, my father had wanted to respond to the word that had。
been preached.。
And he walks forward, and I saw this with a four-year-old's eyes, right?。
I see the pastor come forward, and the pastor places his hand just gently on my father's。
forehead.。
My father collapses on the floor and just lies dead on the ground.。
Now when you're a four-year-old, here's how you understand that moment.。
I thought the pastor had killed my father.。
And so I start wailing.。
I start wailing and crying.。
And I'm like, "Ah!"。
My mom comes over to me.。
She's like, "Andrew, why are you crying?"。
I said, "The pastor's killed my father!"。
And my mom, she says this.。
She looks over and sees her husband on the floor, right?。
And she turns back and she says, "Oh, no, no, no, Andrew.。
No, no, no, no.。
He's not dead.。
He's fine.。
He's alive."。
She said, "No, that's just God.。
God is speaking to him."。
And I remember as a four-year-old thinking this, "If that is how God speaks to people,。
I hope he never speaks to me for the rest of my life."。
But it's these dramatic moments of the Holy Spirit, right, that I think we can so often。
hold on to, that can so often frame and shape everything that we think about the Holy Spirit.。
Which is why when we're thinking about the Spirit, we have the nostalgia in us because。
we see the dramatic things that are mentioned in Scripture, and maybe we haven't seen them。
or encountered them for our own lives, or we've seen them much in the world today, and。
we can begin to think that maybe the Spirit's not manifesting as much, or the Spirit's not。
here as much.。
And actually, Scripture presents a much broader and bigger view than just the manifestations.。
Those external experiences, the dramatic things are awesome, but here's what the Bible says.。
The primary work that the Spirit does is not just external in the things of this world,。
but internal within us.。
And guess what?。
Those things are less perceptible at times, and we crave the dramatic because that's the。
sudden change that we can point to and see and celebrate, and oftentimes I think we shy。
away from the long-term stuff, from the stuff that the Spirit is actually always doing inside。
of us, and we pray for the miracle, and God's like, "There's many miracles happening in。
your life right now."。
I mean, I can stand before you today as somebody who's been a Christian for 30 years, and I。
can tell you, man, I've seen some of the powerful manifestations of the Holy Spirit externally.。
I was in the Philippines once.。
I saw a blind man receive sight through the prayer of a 14-year-old girl.。
In my own life, I have prayed for and have experienced healings.。
I prayed for Chris once when we were dating just before we got married, and she had a。
pain in her side, and I saw a picture of a dagger in her side, and I just removed the。
dagger.。
Well, she told me, she's like, "Just remove the dagger."。
I'm like, "That's weird."。
And I did, and her pain stopped immediately, and it's never returned.。
I have actually spoken in other human languages under the power of the Holy Spirit, just like。
it's read about in Acts.。
That's a crazy story I'll save for another week.。
I have experienced the manifestations of God, but I can stand before you proudly today and。
tell you that the greatest things that the Spirit has done are the things that you probably。
have never noticed in me.。
I can stand before you after 30 years and tell you I am far more patient today than。
I have ever been.。
I have more self-control over the temptations in my life today than I did when I was 25.。
Trust me.。
I am someone who is more kind than I think I've ever been.。
I have a deeper love for people than I've ever had at any period of my life.。
These are the greater, if you will, works of the Spirit.。
They are also works of the Spirit.。
And the problem we can have, I think, as Christians is that we can kind of play one off of the。
other as if it's and/or.。
It's either this or it's that, and we either find ourselves as Christians, we're charismatics,。
which means we're this, or we're not so charismatic, which means we're like this.。
And God stands back from all of that and goes, "It doesn't have to be and/or.。
It's both/and."。
Like it's this and that.。
Like it is the dramatic, powerful manifestations of the Holy Spirit.。
Yes, I do that.。
I want to continue to do that.。
And you may see some of that in your life.。
But it's also the quiet, almost imperceptible, long-term healing and changes that happen。
in your life.。
The Spirit is at work in both, and your expectation shouldn't be and/or.。
It should be both/and.。
It should be a hunger to see the work of the Spirit manifested in that way.。
He works corporately, but He also works individually.。
He brings comfort and peace, but He also challenges with conviction, which is uncomfortable at。
times.。
He opens up the Scriptures by His Spirit so we can understand the written Word that was。
thousands of years ago given to us, but He also gives us a reima Word, a fresh Word for。
today in this moment in history.。
He does both.。
And as we begin to understand the glory that there is in the both/and aspect of the Holy。
Spirit, we deepen our understanding of Him.。
Are you with me?。
So, what we're going to do over this series is bring some of these both/and pieces to。
you so that you can understand maybe a bigger concept of who the Holy Spirit is for your。
life so that your expectations might shift from nostalgia to future.。
And I want to start that today by doing a teaching with you, a little bit different。
perhaps to how I often am preaching with you and telling a funny story and a great thing。
here and there.。
I want to actually unpack some things for you, teach you a little bit today, because。
I want to debunk a myth that I think we hold on to about the Holy Spirit that's really。
important that we get right in week one.。
And then I want to teach you a little bit about what the primary purpose of the Holy。
Spirit is in the world and for you personally.。
Because all of these both/ands that we're going to be looking at throughout the series,。
all of them feed up under this primary overarching purpose that the Spirit is here in our world。
to do.。
So, first of all, let me debunk a myth, and it's this.。
The primary way that the Scripture speaks of the Holy Spirit is as a person, not a force。
or an energy.。
Oh, I'm going to unpack this one for a moment, because I think we need to understand this。
a little bit more.。
See, the primary way that Scripture speaks of the Holy Spirit is as a person, coexistent。
and coeternal with the Father and the Son.。
And the problem for us Christians is that we so often think of the Holy Spirit primarily。
as something out of Star Wars.。
We do.。
You know, we suddenly think that as Christians, we're like Alec Guinness, you know, kind of。
going, "These are not the droids that you are looking for."。
You know what I'm saying?。
We think of the Spirit as this kind of disembodied sort of feeling or energy or life force that's。
out there in the world, but actually, Scriptures don't teach at all that the Spirit of God。
is like that.。
Now, this is challenging, because the Scriptures do present a picture of how the Spirit moves。
in similar way.。
It describes it as breath.。
It describes it as wind.。
We get pictures of the Holy Spirit as fire, as a cloud, as tongues of fire that we see。
in Acts chapter 2.。
So there are ways in which the Spirit is described in Scripture that lends us to this kind of。
side thinking of, "Well, maybe He's more like a force, more like an energy."。
But we have to understand that the primary way He's described is as a person.。
And that is very important, because there are things that you can do with a person that。
you can never do with a force or an energy.。
And if you keep thinking of the Spirit primarily as a force or an energy, your idea is more。
to access something, to tap into a flow of something, rather than actually to be submitted。
to the service and the worship of a person.。
And so getting this together and understanding that it's not this, but it's this, dramatically。
changes your expectations and your thinking and your involvement with the Holy Spirit。
in your life.。
Paul, who's perhaps the person in the New Testament that speaks about the Holy Spirit。
the most, unpacks this so profoundly.。
Throughout all of his books, he writes about the Holy Spirit.。
Let me just give you an overview of some of the things that he says about the Spirit.。
He counsels us to know the mind of Christ.。
He strengthens us in our weakness.。
He teaches us the gospel.。
He intercedes on our behalf.。
He's grieved by our sinfulness.。
He leads us in the ways of God.。
He bears witness with our own spirit.。
All of these words, notice this, all that Paul's teaching about the Spirit is all about。
what a person does.。
Teaching, counseling, grieving, having emotions, feeling something.。
This is not some disembodied sort of energy in the world.。
This is an actual person.。
Is that making sense?。
And because Paul's beginning to teach that the Spirit of God is a person, he's welcoming。
us into a relationship.。
That's the powerful thing here.。
This is a relationship we get entered into.。
This is why when Jesus promises the Holy Spirit in John 16, 7, he writes it like this.。
Let me explain it to you.。
But I tell you the truth.。
"It is better that I go, for if I do not go, the advocate, Holy Spirit, will not come to。
you.。
But if I go, I will send," notice, "him to you."。
He doesn't say, "I'll send it to you."。
He doesn't say, "Hey, I'm going to give you a prayer that if you pray, you'll be able。
to tap into the energy of the universe."。
He says, "I'm going to send a person, him."。
He has a personhood to you, right?。
Now this crazy, I mean, just think about that for a sec.。
He has a person, but think about this also.。
Jesus says, "It's better for you that you," follow this, "that you don't have my bodily。
form on earth.。
It's actually better for you that you have the indwelling of the person of the Holy Spirit。
inside of you."。
That blows my mind.。
Because I don't know about you, but I would love Jesus to be standing right here, right。
now, bodily form with me.。
Would you not?。
But he says, "It's better.。
It's better that I go to my father and give you the person that is going to stay with。
you, walk with you, be with you, the person of the Holy Spirit."。
Why is it better to have the person of the Holy Spirit?。
I'm going to answer that right towards the end of the message, which means you have to。
keep listening.。
But for now, what it means is that it is an invitation to relationship.。
In fact, Paul, when he's trying to summarize the Trinity in one verse, he does this so。
beautifully in 2 Corinthians 13, 14.。
He says it this.。
He says, "The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God, and the fellowship of the。
Holy Spirit be with you all."。
One of the most beautiful verses of Paul.。
Notice how he chooses one word to describe each person of the Trinity.。
He chooses grace for Jesus.。
That makes sense, doesn't it?。
Because it's in Jesus that we have the ultimate expression of grace in the forgiveness of。
our sin.。
He chooses love for the Father.。
That makes a lot of sense too, because God so loved the world that he gave his only son,。
Jesus.。
What word does he choose for the Spirit?。
Well, it's not a random word.。
He's trying to choose something that would express the significance of what the Spirit。
does and how the Spirit works with us.。
He says, "The fellowship of the Holy Spirit."。
In other words, the one that we have deep abiding relationship with, connection with.。
The Greek word is koinonia.。
It literally means togetherness or communion, connection with the Holy Spirit.。
He's saying when you understand the Spirit as a person rather than some life force or。
energy, you can actually have fellowship.。
You're in relationship.。
There is structure to that.。
There is feeling in that.。
There's communion.。
And not only that, but when the people of God are in fellowship with the person of the。
Holy Spirit, they find koinonia amongst themselves.。
There is an overflow of our connection to the Spirit that then connects us all to one。
another.。
We may know we're from different cultures, different backgrounds.。
We have different theological perspectives sometimes.。
We might have different life experiences.。
The one thing that connects us is the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus and the indwelling。
person of the Holy Spirit that is in all of us at the confession of salvation.。
And that creates a unity that can not be broken.。
The fellowship of the Holy Spirit.。
So here's just in summary how I want you to begin to shift in your thinking from one。
to the other.。
Let me show you this slide I'm putting up here.。
So on the left side, we're going to have a look at what happens when we think of the。
Holy Spirit primarily as a force or an energy.。
We have this, how can I access the Spirit more so I can use it, right?。
We want to tap into the Spirit so that the Spirit can do something for us, heal us, restore。
us, renew us, whatever.。
Or maybe we can pray for someone and we can do...。
We want to tap into some energy in the universe in order for us to use it.。
Follow that?。
Here's how you think when it's the person of the Holy Spirit.。
How can I get to know the Holy Spirit more so he can use me?。
It's a relationship with a person.。
How can I get to know that person more so that I can understand how he wants to use。
me in this world?。
See the difference?。
Or let me give you like an even more obvious one.。
How can I get a hold of the Spirit more?。
Unless if he's an energy, I want to get more.。
I want to be filled more.。
I want to try to gain more to my bucket, if you will.。
Flip that to this.。
How can the Spirit get a hold of me more?。
Oh, church, we don't want to preach on that.。
Like we all want, like, "Oh, I want more of the Holy Spirit."。
And the Holy Spirit's like, "I want more of you."。
Because it's a person.。
And he's like, "I'm here for you and I'm here with you.。
And I will fill you and restore you and renew you, all the things that you desire."。
But it's not like some Santa Claus just like gifting.。
It's not like tapping into the vein of an energy in the universe.。
It's a relationship.。
And your primary way of thinking about the Spirit should be, "How do I get to know the。
Spirit more?。
Like, how do I develop and deepen a fellowship with the Spirit so that I would understand。
who I am better?。
So I can understand how he wants to use me in this world better?。
How do I give more of myself to him rather than always expecting him to give more of。
himself to me?"。
Now let me take this a step deeper now.。
Now that we've debunked a myth, let me now unpack the theology behind this a little bit。
more for us.。
The primary purpose that the Bible describes the Holy Spirit having in this world is that。
he is, the way it's described, he is the giver of life.。
Or in other translations, he's the bringer of life.。
Our creed that we have, the apostolic creed that the church holds to, the global Orthodox。
church holds to, describes the Holy Spirit as the giver or the bringer of life.。
Now to understand what that really means, you actually have to understand the Hebrew。
understanding of life.。
Because when the Bible says that the Holy Spirit is the one who brings life, it's not。
saying he's the one that helps your heart to beat and to put breath in your mouth, although。
that is part of what he does.。
But when we, in our Western kind of modern context, think of life, we think of literally。
like the ability to just be alive, but the Hebrews thought of life very differently.。
For them, life was not just about the fact that your heart beats and you can breathe,。
life was living as you were fully intended to be.。
Life in other words was wrapped up to this concept of shalom, particularly in the first。
couple of chapters of the Old Testament.。
That God's heart was that his people would be the wholeness of what they've been created。
to be, that they would experience the fullness of his creative intent on their lives.。
And because there is this sense of this wholeness and this creative intent, what it meant for。
the Hebrews to say, "We have life by the Spirit," is not that we can breathe, it's that we are。
fully the people that God had always designed and always intended us to be.。
So for Hebrews, I'll just give it a definition.。
Being alive is living to the best of your created intent.。
Some of you might want to write that down.。
Being alive, living to the best of our created intent, which means that the closer you are。
to living in such a way that you are intended or always intended to be means the closer。
you are to actually being alive.。
Follow this.。
I'll say that again.。
I didn't say it particularly well.。
Let me say it again.。
The closer that you are to living as you were always intended to be means the closer you。
are to being fully alive.。
That's the Hebrew understanding of the bringer and the giver of life, not just helping you。
to be literally sustained in life, but bringing you towards the fullness of the way you were。
created to be.。
Does that make sense to you?。
So I want to show this to you in Scripture, and we're going to dig into a couple of really。
important passages here to lay a foundation for the rest of the series.。
I'm going to start in Genesis 1, verses 1 and 2, the very, very beginning of the biblical。
story.。
Notice this.。
It says, "In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.。
Now the earth was formless and empty, and darkness was over the surface of the deep,。
and the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters."。
This is the first time in all of Scripture, of course, that we are introduced to the person。
of the Spirit.。
And I want you specifically to see how the Bible introduces you to the concept for the。
first time.。
He says, "Look, there's this creation.。
God has created everything, but there is a chaos in that creation.。
It's dark, it's formless, and there's a void."。
But the intent of the first two verses is not to say, "Oh my gosh, the world sucks and。
everything's terrible."。
The purpose of the first two verses is to say, "Okay, there's formlessness, there's darkness,。
there's chaos, there's disorder, but we are not without hope because the Spirit is hovering。
over what is currently dark and chaotic and disordered."。
So the intent of these verses is to give you a sense of the already purpose of the person。
of the Holy Spirit.。
The picture of Him hovering here is a beautiful metaphorical picture, and it's repeated again。
in Deuteronomy.。
It's the picture of an eagle hovering or a bird hovering over its nest, hoping that the。
eaglets, the little ones in the nest, will take flight.。
So here's the Holy Spirit hovering over the disorder, the chaos of the world, hoping that。
the world will come alive.。
And by that meaning, into the fullness of what it was intended to be.。
Right now there is chaos and darkness and formlessness.。
In the future, because of the Spirit, that will change.。
Does that make sense?。
So the Spirit is hovering over disorder, longing to bring it into order.。
So being alive is being fully as we were intended to be, and the way that the Spirit does this。
is He takes what is currently disordered and He brings it into order.。
This is what you actually see in the creation narrative itself.。
A formlessness of something that gains form, then because of the Spirit becomes the fullness。
of what it was intended to be.。
We actually see this happen in the first of human creation.。
Let me jump forward here just to chapter 2 of Genesis and verse 7.。
It says, "The Lord God formed the man from," this is Adam, "from the dust of the ground."。
So there was formlessness.。
Are you with me?。
But notice it says, "God formed him," so there's a formlessness that goes into form, "and then。
he breathes into him," to the nostrils, "the breath of life."。
There's the Spirit, "into him, and the man becomes a living being."。
So Adam literally goes from a chaotic disorder, the ground, to a form without life, and then。
the Spirit comes and brings the thing that was form without life into its fullness as。
a living being.。
So the Bible describes this right at the start of all things, this incredible work that the。
Spirit has to take what is disordered in our lives and in this world and bring it into。
order.。
That's its primary purpose.。
Now of course, this is ultimately manifested to us in the scriptural story through Jesus。
Christ himself.。
Jesus in his life, death, and resurrection is the one who steps in and actually takes。
a world that is disordered in sin and brings it into the new order of redeemed life.。
And I want to show you, if we jump forward just in the story here, to the moment where。
Jesus begins his public ministry, the moment where he comes out of being just a normal。
citizen, if you will, to actually then beginning a journey as a prophet, a rabbi, and the Son。
of God at his baptism is the turning point for him.。
And I want you to notice this in Luke 3 verse 21.。
"When all the people were being baptized, Jesus was baptized too.。
And as he was praying, heavens opened, and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily。
form like a dove.。
And the voice from heaven said, 'You are my Son, whom I love.。
With you I am well pleased.'"。
I want you to see the connection here between the original creation moment in Genesis 1。
and the moment of Jesus' beginning of his ministry in Luke chapter 3.。
These two things come together.。
Where the Spirit was hovering like a bird over the chaos of disordered world, wanting。
to bring it into its order, so now the Spirit hovers over Jesus, recognizing that it will。
be in and through Jesus that the disorder of this world will ultimately be brought into。
the fullness of its order.。
That because of the Spirit's work within Christ, he will be able to go to the cross, pay the。
price for the sin, and be raised from the death to life so that we would know the fullness。
of reconciliation with God and the forgiveness of our sins ourselves.。
So the whole world's disorder to order is going to happen through Christ.。
And there's a new creation moment in his baptism, literally saying that there's a new creation。
that's at work because of the power of the Spirit for this man in this moment.。
Does that make sense to you?。
Now here's the other interesting thing.。
Last week in Easter Sunday, I took us to John chapter 20, where Jesus is not found in the。
tomb anymore, and he shows himself to his disciples.。
I want to show you what actually happens in the moment.。
We didn't read this last week.。
Let me pick up the story.。
This is John 20, and it's starting in verse 21.。
"Jesus said to him," this is the first time he's appeared to them in his resurrection,。
he says, "Peace be with you.。
As the Father has sent me, I am sending you."。
And with that, "He breathed on them and said, 'Receive the Holy Spirit.'"。
This is perhaps the most significant moment in all of human history.。
Jesus' death on the cross is a significant moment in all history.。
This is probably the most significant moment in our human history.。
Because in the power of the resurrection, Christ turns up to the disciples, and he goes,。
"I'm going to breathe on you."。
Now that should automatically connect you right back there to the creation narrative。
again.。
In the same way that Adam was formless, had a form, and the Spirit breathed on him to。
bring him into his fullness, now Jesus, in the power of the resurrection, and the Spirit。
at work in him, looks at his disciples, and he says, "What's disordered in you will no。
longer be disordered.。
For I will breathe on you to receive the Holy Spirit."。
And that Holy Spirit will have the primary purpose of taking what is disordered in you。
and bring it into order.。
What the Holy Spirit has done in the death and resurrection of Christ through the cross。
of Jesus to bring all of the disordered world into order, now is going to take place, Jesus。
is basically saying, in you.。
He breathes on these people to bring them into the newness of life.。
So I want you to think of it this way.。
This is the theological thing we're trying to get to here.。
Notice this.。
Follow with this.。
In the incarnation, God steps into the disorder of this world and through the person of Jesus。
Christ brings it to how it was always intended to be.。
Does that make sense?。
In the same way, Jesus Christ steps into the disorder of our internal worlds through the。
person of the Holy Spirit to bring us into the place where we were always intended to。
be.。
You follow that?。
So what Christ has done in the incarnation in this world, now Christ does through the。
incarnation of the Spirit in us.。
And where there was a disorder in the world that has been brought into order, where there's。
disorder in us, the primary work of the Spirit is to bring a new order within us.。
This is the joy.。
This is what we're welcomed into.。
This is why the Spirit is a person and not some energy or some life force out there that。
can't do much for us.。
This is the resurrection power of Christ within us so that whatever might be distorted in。
me, whatever is broken in me, whatever is not quite right in me, can now be brought。
into a new order, brought into the fullness of life through the gifts of the Spirit, the。
fruit of the Spirit, the work of the Spirit, all of these things that we're going to be。
teaching on over the next number of weeks here, all of that is to bring my disorder。
into order.。
Oh, the beauty and the wonder of a God who doesn't just step in to save the world but。
steps in to save you through the person of the Holy Spirit.。
And this work of the Spirit inside of our broken internal world changes us dramatically.。
Let me just summarize that change with this really incredible diagram that I'm going to。
throw up here.。
The work of the Spirit, the disorder to order work of the Spirit brings us into faith in。
Jesus, helps us to know Jesus better, restores our relationship with the Father, drives us。
into mission and justice, binds us together in unity, empowers our living and worship。
and discipleship.。
The disorder that was there is brought into order through the beauty of the work of the。
Spirit.。
And I want you to see this.。
The work is cyclical.。
It's like there's this circle motion that's happening.。
It's not like it's like a linear thing where it's like step one, step two, step three,。
step four, and you can get a certificate as a great Christian.。
Come on, Hong Kong, we know that, don't we?。
We know that.。
No, it doesn't work that way.。
This is the ongoing regenerative work of the person of the Holy Spirit bringing disorder。
into order in our lives over a period of time.。
And we long for those dramatic manifestations and they still happen.。
And yet the primary work that takes place is the long-term regeneration of the darkness。
of me.。
And so over our series, each week is going to unpack each one of these.。
So you can take a photo of that slide if you like.。
That's the last thing I'm going to do with the slide, okay?。
So you can take a photo of that one and it will get you a sense of kind of where we're。
going in this series and why we're unpacking this series for you today.。
But here's how I want to close.。
I think there are two very important questions that we want to invite you as the leadership。
here to wrestle with in the week ahead.。
Let me throw up these questions for you.。
Number one, if the person of the Holy Spirit is someone to be in fellowship with, am I。
actively cultivating a vibrant and personal connection with him?。
Do I see him still more as a force or energy to tap into rather than a person to walk with?。
Okay, I want you to ask yourself that honestly and do some honest reflection on that.。
Number two, if the work of the Holy Spirit is primarily to take things that are in disorder。
and bring them into order, what is currently still in disorder in my life?。
Where do I need to invite the Holy Spirit to enter and reorder?。
Amen?。
Who's excited?。
I can really tell.。
I can really tell.。
I'm excited and I know you're excited too.。
This is what we're going to be doing in this series and I believe that this could be profoundly。
a completely regenerative time for you.。
I wonder whether you could stand.。
I want to pray for us this morning.。
Father, we are deeply grateful that there are three persons of the Trinity that you。
desire to express yourself in three different persons but one God.。
And Lord, we probably confess here that we know the Father and the Son better at times。
than we know the Holy Spirit.。
Father, for those of us in this room where we primarily think of the Spirit like an energy,。
Lord, I want to pray that the person of the Holy Spirit would become their best friend.。
I want to pray as Paul prayed for the church that the grace of Christ Jesus and the love。
of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all.。
So Lord, I pray for that fellowship, the koinonia, the communion, the togetherness of your Spirit。
to be with each person in this room.。
And I pray that as they enter into knowing you more, they would be in a posture of submission。
and humility rather than control.。
So often, Lord, our starting point with the Holy Spirit is how do I control this thing?。
How do I use this thing for my gain?。
How do I use it for my business' gain?。
How do I use it for my family's gain?。
And we become like Simon the sorcerer in the book of Acts.。
Lord, would you forgive us?。
You're not one to be manipulated for our own power or good.。
You're a person we are to get to know, who we are to worship, who we are to submit ourselves。
to as one of the Godhead.。
And so Lord, would you manifest that to each one of us, Lord, in the weeks ahead?。
And Father, I wanna pray for whatever disorder might be known in the hearts and lives of。
every person in this room.。
Lord, every single one of us is still carrying some form of disorder, something that is not。
fully the way it's intended to be.。
Lord, we thank you that the work of the Spirit is a lifelong regenerative work.。
But Lord, we don't wanna be people walking around with disorder.。
Lord, we wanna be people who walk around with the order of the Holy Spirit upon us.。
And so Lord, I wanna pray over this sermon series that you would do a deep work in people。
in this room, Lord.。
That Lord, things that are disordered would come to order in the name of Jesus.。
That sin would be repented of.。
That healing would come.。
That trauma would be healed and restored.。
Lord, that the deep brokenness that can be within some of our spirits would be made new。
and made in the Spirit of God like new.。
Father, would you do what your Spirit does best in us, that the person of the Holy Spirit。
manifesting us to bring us into a place of new order in Him.。
Lord, I pray that you would do this for your glory.。
And I wanna pray for freedom and life.。
For the Bible says where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.。
And so I wanna pray for a freshness and a freedom to be over every person in this room。
to the newness of life.。
And we pray this in Jesus' name, amen.。
(congregation applauding)。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
