Well, good morning, everybody.。
My name is Pastor Promise.。
Every time I say the words, "Pastor Promise,"。
it feels weird.。
Call her, I'm Dada, to my daughter.。
My daughter is here.。
She's never here at the 11 o'clock,。
so this is gonna be nice and challenging.。
Well, hey, I'm glad that you guys are here.。
You chose to be here this morning.。
So the sermon writing process is an interesting one.。
We pray, we ask God, we write down the words,。
and we pass it on to someone to look at it and to edit it。
and to make sure that we are going in the right direction.。
And we've prayed over today's sermon,。
and we're gonna preach that.。
Don't worry, Andrew, I'm not gonna go off script.。
But I wanna plead with you guys.。
I kinda wanna put out what my intention。
with this whole sermon is.。
And beyond my intention, what I believe God's intention。
with today's sermon is.。
You guys wanna know what God desires you to get out of this?。
Anyone here?。
Yeah?。
I plead with you that in listening to the words today,。
that you would consider in your heart。
what it means to follow Jesus.。
I plead with you today that you would consider in your heart。
what are the things of God,。
and do those things create excitement in me?。
Are those things that I'm aligned with,。
that I desire to see in the world fulfilled through him?。
I plead with you today that you would ask yourself,。
how do I truly follow who Jesus is?。
That is my hope.。
That is all I wanna get out of today's sermon.。
And I really want you guys to sit in this place of wrestling.。
What does it mean to follow Jesus,。
and how do I make sure I follow him?。
'Cause that's what it's all about, right?。
We gather, we worship, we sing,。
but we've got to become people who follow Jesus.。
That's from the bottom of my heart.。
That's where I hope we land today.。
So we're continuing this series of Uncharted.。
And as we were studying, looking through it,。
I did a little bit of research,。
a little bit of homework to look and see。
that our New Testament has 27 books inside.。
A lot of books.。
27 books inside the New Testament.。
Of those 27 books,。
half of them are written by the same guy, right?。
Does anyone know who that is?。
Just to see if...。
Anyone?。
Say it with your chest, anyone?。
Paul, there we go.。
Yes, well done.。
Paul has written more than half of the books。
in the New Testament.。
This is incredible.。
He's written all these letters that we call epistles.。
These books, which purposes are to reveal Jesus, yes,。
but to help edify, help grow,。
help replenish the churches all across the Roman Empire.。
These letters are written to churches。
that he's either started or established or planted himself.。
Here at the Vine, 2000 plus years later,。
we are benefic, benefic, beneficians?。
There we go.。
Beneficiaries, benefactors, all the benefits.。
We benefit, there's a word for you.。
We benefit from what Paul wrote.。
In Ephesians, his letter to the church in Ephesus,。
he writes this prayer.。
He goes, "I pray that we would grasp how wide and long。
"and how high and how deep is the love of Christ。
"and to know this love which passes knowledge,。
"that we would be filled to the measure。
"of all the fullness of God."。
Filled to the measure of all the fullness of God.。
That's where we get our very purpose here at the Vine。
in growing big people, that we would grow in understanding。
and all the measure of the fullness of God.。
Paul is an incredible figure.。
His role within that first century church。
is to bring together these two communities,。
Gentiles who were people who were not heirs。
of the promise of God.。
They were outside of that promise.。
They were ethnically a different group of people.。
So all the promises of the Old Testament,。
all the good news, didn't apply to them.。
But through Paul, the Holy Spirit would bring these people。
and the Jewish believers, these new Christians。
together in one community.。
Paul would be something like a unifying factor。
to help bring together a unified community.。
If you've been in church for any time,。
you would know that Paul's letters are super popular.。
Some of the words he uses are pretty awesome, right?。
A little bit of Bible bingo for you.。
Paul wrote, let's see, "The Armor of God."。
You guys know that one?。
"The Armor of God."。
"The fruits of the Spirit."。
"Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness."。
If you've been to any wedding ever,。
you've probably heard one of his famous ones.。
The first Corinthians, "Love is patient, love is kind."。
Everyone really loves that one。
when they have someone that they love。
and they wanna say it to.。
Or perhaps maybe his most tattooable.。
Yeah, Paul wrote some things that people have probably,。
there might be someone in this room with a tattoo of this.。
And I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me.。
Right?。
Some incredible statements are given to us。
through the life of Paul.。
But I don't wanna just paint Paul out to be someone。
who said and wrote a lot of good things.。
Paul with his life lived incredibly.。
He went on three massive missionary journeys。
as a way to take the good news of the gospel。
throughout the Roman Empire,。
going out to city after city,。
planting and helping build and helping strengthen churches.。
He gets shipwrecked, he gets bitten by snakes,。
he gets threatened, he gets stoned.。
All these things that happened to him,。
persecuted, eventually ends up dying.。
He gives his life to make sure。
that the world knows who Jesus is.。
He would say that compared to the pain he would feel,。
that the joy of knowing Christ is even greater.。
He would say, "I count everything as lost just to know him."。
Paul is what you would call a hero of our faith.。
Said a lot of good things, wrote a lot of good things,。
did a lot of good things.。
He really helped establish Christianity as we know it today.。
But this hero of our faith was not always a hero。
of our faith.。
You could say this, Paul had a past.。
Paul did some pretty dodgy things。
before he became a Christian.。
So someone who's known for being one。
who is building up the church。
and helping strengthen their church,。
before he was a Christian, was the exact opposite of this.。
His name wasn't Paul, his name was Saul back then.。
And he lived to eradicate this Jesus following movement。
that existed in Jerusalem and throughout the region.。
His goal was to make sure。
that this Jesus movement stopped.。
His early career, he persecuted and jailed and beat。
and even had people killed who believed this Jesus person。
and aligned themselves with him.。
So how ironic that the thing he's most famous for。
was the thing that he hated so much。
before his transformation.。
But he does have a transformation.。
There is a change from a Saul to a Paul.。
And if you've been in church any time,。
this will be somewhat of a popular story。
or familiar story where he is,。
the apostles would say he is breathing murderous threats。
against those who believe in Jesus.。
And he's given permission by the chief priests。
to go outside of Jerusalem and into Damascus。
to round up the Christians there。
and bring them back to Jerusalem for persecution.。
So he's on his way.。
He, with the people that he needs,。
with the authority that he has,。
on his way to go and persecute more Christians.。
When all of a sudden a light from heaven shines down on him,。
he falls off of his horse and he sees Jesus,。
Jesus standing before him.。
Jesus asked him this question.。
He goes, Saul, why are you persecuting me?。
And in that moment, Saul has an encounter。
that changes his life.。
He experiences Jesus and leaves that experience blind,。
cannot see.。
Maybe the most powerful person all of a sudden now,。
maybe one of the most vulnerable people.。
His transformation is not complete though.。
See, God started something in that road to Damascus。
that would be completed through the Holy Spirit。
working with another person.。
Someone else was going to have to pay a pretty big cost.。
Someone else would have to intervene。
and help establish Paul into who he would be.。
This is where we get the story of Ananias.。
So today our teaching text is gonna be found。
in Acts chapter nine, starting at verse 10.。
So I'm gonna open my Bible.。
If you have one of these old relics,。
Bibles, physical ones, you can open it with me as well.。
Looking here in Acts chapter nine, starting at verse 10.。
If you don't have a Bible,。
it will be provided for you on the screen.。
I'm gonna read this out.。
It says, in Damascus, there was a disciple named Ananias.。
The Lord called to him in a vision, Ananias.。
Yes, Lord, he answered.。
Lord told him, go to the house of Judas on Straight Street。
and ask for a man from Tarsus named Saul,。
for he is praying.。
So in a vision, he has seen a man named Ananias come。
and place his hands on him to restore his sight.。
Lord, Ananias answered, I have heard many reports。
about this man and all the harm he has done。
to your holy people in Jerusalem.。
And he has come here with the authority。
from the chief priests to arrest all who call on your name.。
But the Lord said to Ananias, go.。
This man is my chosen instrument to proclaim my name。
to the Gentiles and their kings and to the people of Israel.。
I will show him how much he must suffer for my name.。
Then Ananias went to the house and entered it,。
placing his hands on Saul.。
He said, brother Saul, the Lord Jesus,。
who appeared to you on the road as you were coming here,。
he has sent me so that you may see again。
and be filled with the Holy Spirit.。
And immediately, something like scales fell from Saul's eyes。
and he could see again.。
He got up and was baptized.。
And after taking some food, he regained his strength.。
Saul spent several days with the disciples in Damascus.。
At once, he began preaching in the synagogues。
that Jesus is the son of God.。
All those who heard him were astonished.。
And they asked, isn't he the man。
who raised havoc in Jerusalem。
among those who call on this name?。
And hasn't he come here to take them as prisoners。
to the chief priests?。
Yet Saul grew more and more powerful。
and baffled the Jews living in Damascus。
by proving that Jesus was the Messiah.。
Let me pray for us.。
Jesus, we come before you this morning.。
We open your word and we ask Holy Spirit,。
not for interesting thoughts and good comprehension, God,。
but that your living, breathing word would do what it does.。
It would penetrate into our hearts,。
that it would begin to transform us。
as we see you through this story.。
Would you open our ears?。
Would you make our hearts fertile soil。
for the things that you have for us this morning?。
We pray these things in Jesus' name, amen.。
So basically Ananias is this person。
who's gonna be used in the transformation of Saul.。
This is a guy who we know very little about.。
Raise your hand if you know anything about Ananias.。
Hey, besides Pastor Andrew.。
Not really, like we don't know who that is.。
Saul, Paul we know, John, Peter, those are big names.。
Ananias, never heard of the guy, right?。
No one really knows him.。
But this is about to be his moment.。
While living under persecution in the first century,。
we're gonna see that God calls out to Ananias。
to go into the known.。
Now I wrestled with whether or not to say it like this.。
Into the known should make you be like, wait,。
our whole series that we're on is about the unknown, right?。
The uncharted, right?。
Like that's what we're talking about.。
How does God calling Ananias to go into the known?。
Well, in this case, yes, the whole journey as a whole。
and how it's gonna play out is unknown,。
but there are things that he does know.。
He's aware of the cost that this is gonna be for him.。
He's aware of who Saul is, right?。
So he's aware that he's about to step into a very dangerous,。
tricky, challenging, and hard situation.。
And it probably makes him uncomfortable a little bit.。
What he would know is that this would require some risk.。
And Ananias is gonna have to ask himself,。
where does he truly stand?。
A call to the uncharted where Ananias。
is going to have to weigh his options.。
He's gonna have to consider his beliefs。
and where his trust truly is.。
Where Ananias is gonna have to ask himself,。
do I believe enough to follow?。
I believe, but do I believe enough to follow?。
Or does my belief in Jesus boil down。
to a collection of interesting information。
that I've gathered?。
He has to ask himself if he believes enough to be obedient。
to the call that is put on him.。
This is all part of the uncharted journey。
that you and I are also on.。
We are going to be stepping into seasons。
if we've not already, where God's gonna be calling us。
to do some pretty risky, dangerous,。
maybe seemingly crazy things.。
And we're gonna be faced with that question.。
Do I believe enough to trust him and to follow him?。
Do I believe enough to step into this known challenge?。
Do I believe enough to follow him。
into the uncharted territories and uncharted spaces?。
Knowing this would be challenging,。
knowing this is gonna cost us.。
See, Pastor Andrew last week said something。
that I thought was really, really, really good.。
She does say quite a few things regularly,。
they're pretty good.。
But this time, it was this one that I was like,。
whew, gonna say it again.。
So I'm gonna put it back up here.。
He's talking about the idea of persecution.。
And I want you to remind us of this.。
He said this, "When putting Christ first。
"comes with great personal cost,。
"we are tempted to choose what is safe。
"rather than obedience to him."。
(child yelling)。
My daughter said, "Amen, that's awesome."。
(audience laughing)。
Thanks, honey.。
This is the very position that Ananias is in.。
God is extending an invitation to something。
that seems crazy, something that's never been done before.。
For him to go against the grain,。
something that's gonna require him。
to have new levels of dependency on God.。
See, the rumors of who saw what,。
was well known, everyone knew who Saul would be.。
Saul's killings and his persecution,。
he was efficient at what he did。
when it came to persecuting Christians.。
And this would be the backdrop。
in which God would invite Ananias。
into following him into the uncharted.。
I love the way that Luke tells this story。
because he tells it in a very interesting way.。
The way he writes it,。
he's telling it in a very interesting way.。
He writes it, highlights certain things to the reader。
that we need to understand。
when it comes to stepping into situations just like this.。
With Ananias, Luke actually doesn't give us。
many details about him.。
It's actually quite a short little bit he tells us.。
What Luke chooses to disclose about Ananias。
is perhaps the only small detail.。
But it's not about his family, it's not about his status,。
it's not about his church attendance,。
it's not about what he served in。
and what team he served with.。
It's not about any of that stuff.。
It's not about how much money he had, who he was.。
None of that stuff seemed to matter.。
What Luke ends up telling us about Ananias。
is something about his identity.。
And perhaps the most important thing about Ananias。
is boiled down to this.。
This little identity concept。
would be the way Ananias would shape。
how he made his decisions.。
It would be what would make him ultimately Ananias.。
It'd be how he would weigh his options。
in difficult situations.。
What Luke gives us is this.。
He says, "In Damascus, there was a disciple named Ananias."。
So what's Ananias' big descriptor?。
What's the big detail about Ananias?。
He's a disciple.。
That's it.。
Nothing else.。
He is a disciple.。
So Luke deems the only detail worth noting,。
or better yet, the one detail that tells you。
everything you need to know about who Ananias is。
is that he is a disciple of Jesus.。
He believes and he follows in Jesus.。
This word disciple is a common word in our New Testament.。
Across the first five books of the New Testament,。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, and Acts,。
the word disciple appears 261 times.。
This is a common word.。
And it simply means this, one who follows.。
Right?。
So we can, a disciple is someone who follows.。
When we hear disciples at the very beginning。
of the gospels in Matthew,。
what is it that they're called to do?。
Come and follow me, is what Jesus tells them.。
It's the very nature of a disciple to live。
and respond into adherence of the person。
that they're following.。
Right?。
They go with that person where that person goes.。
So then a disciple of Jesus, as Ananias would be,。
would be one who would follow Jesus in his belief patterns,。
follow Jesus in his ideological leanings,。
follow Jesus in his behavior, in his practice.。
The follower of Jesus would be one who follows Jesus。
in his prioritization, in his preferences,。
in his decision-making process,。
in his posture towards society and culture.。
This is what it means to be a disciple,。
a specifically disciple of Jesus.。
So as a disciple of Jesus, Ananias lives a certain way,。
responding to the belief that he has in Jesus.。
Right?。
He has decided that Christ is enough.。
We sang it earlier, right?。
Christ is enough for me.。
Like he liked that song too.。
Everything in his life was going to exist。
to respond to who Jesus was.。
So when God calls him into this ridiculously challenging,。
hard, really clearly difficult situation。
of going to Saul, who is a murderous persecutor,。
the posture of his discipleship。
is what's gonna make it possible for him to follow。
into the known dangers, into the uncharted areas.。
Because Luke identifies Ananias as a disciple,。
it should give us the readers a bit of a foreshadowing。
as to what's gonna happen, right?。
Because he's a disciple, we should therefore know。
what his decision is gonna be.。
His decision is gonna be, yes, I'm gonna follow。
because disciples follow.。
It's like playing, I remember the first time I heard。
the idea of what a disciple was,。
someone did like a cool little like skit for me.。
They played, has anyone played the game Follow the Leader?。
Did I make it?。
Yeah, yeah, Follow the Leader.。
So one person starts walking and then you just follow them.。
That's literally what a disciple does.。
They follow that person.。
So for Ananias, whatever he's about to be asked,。
no matter how much we know about him,。
because we know he's a disciple,。
we can be certain that he is going to follow Jesus.。
But Ananias does have a choice。
because Jesus isn't the only thing that can be followed.。
There's quite a few things we can follow.。
For many of us in this season of uncharted,。
whether we face it now or we're gonna be facing it,。
we're gonna be faced with the choice。
of what are we actually going to follow?。
And I know it could seem easy.。
Well, if you're Christian, we follow Jesus, right?。
Sometimes it's not that easy.。
In moments when it's challenging,。
we can find ourselves if we're not careful,。
actually following the circumstance and not Jesus.。
As in we are tempted to follow Jesus。
only when the situation ahead,。
the circumstance ahead seems right,。
according to our observation,。
seems favorable according to our observations.。
When verses like Psalm chapter 23,。
where he leads us by still water,。
where he leads us into green pastures,。
when Jesus does that, I mean, sign me up,。
I'm ready to follow, right?。
That sounds like a good chance of following the leader.。
I would love some green pastures。
and some still calm waters.。
But in the same book, in the same chapter,。
that following Jesus also continues。
into the valley of the shadow of death,。
where our enemies are around us.。
For Ananias, it would be following Jesus。
would be following him into a conversation,。
into an encounter with Saul,。
the very person who has the authority。
to take him in as a Jesus follower.。
When we find ourselves at this crossroads,。
will we follow what we observe?。
Will we follow how favorable the situation。
or circumstance is,。
or are we at risk of not following Jesus at all?。
And please don't get me wrong,。
I'm not saying that Jesus is saying,。
don't consider how challenging it is.。
I'm not saying that Jesus is saying,。
pretend like every challenging invitation is easy.。
Jesus has no desire for you to lie about how hard。
what he's calling you is.。
He's not called you to not feel or not observe。
or not have senses about what's going on.。
We are going to feel, he's given us senses for a reason.。
It's okay to acknowledge the feelings,。
but he's saying that you can't always follow。
the observations, you can't always follow。
your assessment of the road ahead.。
You can't always follow how you feel.。
At some point, the way of our feelings。
and the way of Jesus will clash.。
They will become opposites.。
And there are times where our feelings。
are simply meant to be felt and not followed.。
When things appear one way,。
know that God isn't calling us to follow an appearance。
because uncharted is an invitation。
to lean not on your own understandings,。
but to lean on him.。
The heavy reality for us is that we are at risk。
of actually not following Jesus,。
but instead following circumstances.。
That's just the truth.。
That's the temptation we have to wrestle with regularly.。
For many of us, I know our desire is to follow Jesus.。
We're here because we want to follow Jesus.。
So I just wanna make it really clear。
what the disguise things are,。
what the alternative paths are that present themselves。
as if we are following Jesus.。
It can be such a subtle temptation to follow a circumstance。
when it's good thinking that we're following Jesus.。
It requires a nuance and understanding.。
And I love that we have a good example。
of how Ananias felt tempted to do the exact same thing。
in verse 13, it reads this.。
He goes, "Lord," answered Ananias,。
"I have heard many reports about this man."。
I have observed, I have heard, I have seen.。
He is dangerous, right?。
And all the harm he has done to your holy people.。
He's come here with authority, God,。
from the chief priests to arrest all who call on your name.。
Ananias has a legit reason to have fear.。
Ananias has a legit reason because Saul is notorious。
at this point for his killings and his arrests,。
ruthlessly persecuting Christians.。
Saul is efficient.。
Everything Ananias is saying in this response to God。
is true, consider that.。
His fear is not wrong, it's true.。
Yet there's a difference in acknowledging the cost。
and being a disciple of a favorable circumstance.。
It's one thing in recognizing。
that this is gonna cost me much.。
It's another thing in allowing it to stop you。
from following Jesus into it anyways.。
This is what Ananias would have to wrestle with.。
Listen, uncharted, this season that we're going into,。
that we're in now,。
is not an invitation to favorable circumstances.。
I think we just need to get that clear.。
It's not an invitation to everything just going super well。
and super easy and not having any challenges.。
It's an invitation to follow the sovereign Jesus。
who has victory over both the favorable。
and the unfavorable circumstances, right?。
That's our Jesus.。
He has victory over all of that.。
And because Ananias is a disciple of Jesus,。
because he follows Christ alone,。
he's willing to walk into the known danger ahead of him.。
And when we follow Jesus alone,。
we too can be willing to walk.。
Yes, having some fear, but having a greater confidence。
because our eyes, our sight is fixed。
on the one that we follow, right?。
Fixed on the victorious Jesus。
who has overcome all things,。
even the conditions of the journey ahead.。
See, the decisions we are willing to make。
will show us what it is we truly follow.。
The decisions we are willing to make。
will show us what it is that we truly follow.。
I find Ananias reminding God of Paul's,。
Saul's CV very interesting.。
He tells him, "Lord, there's many, many, many reports。
about this."。
Like you couldn't have missed this, right?。
This guy is a bad guy, straight out.。
There's nothing good about him.。
Did you get me the wrong person that you want me to go to?。
Because me being a Christian,。
someone that follows you stepping into a situation。
with this guy could be the end of me.。
God, are you sure this is who you want me to go to。
and help him?。
Right, that's a good question.。
That's a fair question.。
It's in moments like this that we realize。
that there is sacrifice involved in following Jesus.。
Disciples of Jesus will have to sacrifice。
at some point in our lives.。
But how does exactly does God get you from this space。
where you acknowledge your feelings。
and you acknowledge the difficulty ahead。
into actually then going and doing what it is?。
How does he get you from recognizing。
that it's gonna cost you a lot。
to faithfully living in obedience despite the cost?。
Well, let's look and see what he says to Ananias.。
He says this, "Go!"。
This man is my chosen instrument to proclaim my name。
to the Gentiles and to their kings。
and to the people of Israel.。
Can we appreciate the fact。
that God kind of ignores his questions?。
Like homeboy is like, I'm terrified, God,。
he's gonna kill me.。
He has all the authority。
and I'm gonna be the victim number one.。
You want me to go to the person who's after me?。
And God is like, but he's my chosen instrument.。
Like, what is that?。
Right, like, I mean, you would expect that God would just,。
for me, you know what would work?。
If I pray and I'm like, God, you know, this is challenging.。
If you would just give me some assurance,。
I feel like I'd be more confident to go。
and live out what God has called me to live, right?。
If he just said, all right, promise,。
go into this dangerous situation,。
go into a situation that's gonna cost you a lot.。
But he also said, it's okay,。
I'll make sure your bank account's still full.。
It's okay, I'll make sure no harm comes。
to you and your family.。
It's okay, nothing about what you,。
the way you expect your life to go,。
it'll still go exactly like that.。
Then I'd be like, yeah, let's go。
into the known and the unknown.。
I don't really care, I would go with him, right?。
And I feel like most of us would do the same thing。
if God would just give us the assurance。
that it's gonna be okay.。
Just follow me, it's gonna be okay.。
Nothing bad's gonna happen.。
You don't have to worry about anything.。
It's all just gonna be good, good, good.。
There's no cost involved.。
If he just gave us this assurance, for so many of us,。
that's what it would take for us to follow.。
But he doesn't do this with Ananias.。
He does not assure him at all.。
He doesn't tell him that it's gonna be okay,。
that there's no chance for failure,。
that nothing bad will happen,。
that life will carry on like he expected it.。
- Yeah.。
- Now, see, God sees Ananias' desire for assurance,。
and instead he chooses to answer him by saying this.。
This man Saul is my chosen instrument。
to proclaim my name to the Gentiles and their kings。
and to the people of Israel.。
Look at this.。
God takes a man looking for assurance。
and instead shows him purpose.。
Sit on that for a minute.。
God takes us when we're looking for this assurance。
that we're gonna be okay,。
that nothing dangerous or hard is gonna come to us.。
And instead of addressing that, he shows purpose.。
He's saying, Ananias, consider the things I have planned.。
You see Saul one way, but actually I see him differently.。
You see him as this great persecutor,。
but I being God who knows all things,。
where all things are possible, the way making God,。
I see him as the very person who takes the good news。
to all of the Gentiles, who extends the kingdom of heaven。
and brings them in all under this banner of Jesus。
as the church.。
I see him differently.。
He is my chosen instrument.。
The thing you fear is the very thing I'm gonna be using。
to extend the gospel.。
See, cost is often associated with value.。
God doesn't call us to sacrifice simply because,。
sounds fun, let's just test them and see how they do.。
He didn't call us to sacrifice just because it's a religion.。
No, the cost indicates that there is value。
on the other side.。
God shows Ananias the value by showing him the purpose.。
And it makes me wonder, I didn't make this a slide,。
so I want us to listen.。
It makes me wonder this, how many of our fears。
and our hesitations to respond to Jesus。
with a costly sacrifice need to be seen。
from a place of purpose rather than from a place。
of assurance?。
I'll say that again, 'cause it's not up here.。
How many of our fears and our hesitations to respond。
to Jesus with costly sacrifice need to be seen。
from a place of purpose rather than assurance?。
Would we even still, while feeling the feels,。
be more willing to step into uncharted territories,。
knowing that God isn't randomly leading us there,。
but he has valuable purpose planned?。
There is a cost because there is value.。
God's not wasteful.。
So it's only natural that we ask, what's the purpose?。
And in Ananias' case, God gives him a very clear,。
exact, distinct purpose behind why he calls him.。
So what's the purpose, God?。
The reality is that God's not always gonna give you。
the exact purpose.。
Can we just be real?。
He's not always gonna tell you exactly why you need。
to go through this hard thing.。
He's not always gonna show you the big picture。
and exactly how it's gonna play out.。
But for the Christian, for the follower of Jesus,。
for those of us that know him, the call is enough,。
'cause if we know him, we know his purposes.。
And what are his purposes?。
To bring the fullness of the kingdom of God here,。
where there's brokenness to fix it,。
where there's darkness to bring light,。
where there's despair to bring hope,。
where there's lies to bring truth,。
where there's insecurity to bring confidence,。
where there's absolute rubbish in the world。
to bring hope and to rebuild.。
So those are the purposes of God.。
Those are the things he's doing.。
Those are the ways he's moving.。
That's what his kingdom on earth looks like,。
setting the captives free,。
elevating the truth of the goodness of God,。
liberating us from sin and the hole that it has。
through the blood of Jesus.。
And if we forget these purposes,。
it becomes near impossible to willingly sacrifice.。
Again, I'm gonna quote Andrew.。
Last week, he said this about persecution.。
One of the things that we can do is deepen our roots.。
I 100% agree with it.。
I'm gonna add a little bit more to it.。
One of the things we can do is deepen our roots。
by becoming familiar with God again.。
Absolutely.。
That is what we need to do, persecution,。
and with costly sacrifice.。
But can I add that we need to also become more familiar。
with the purposes of God again?。
Because the slide is this.。
We won't be willing to suffer for what we don't know,。
for what we don't love.。
When we consider these purposes,。
the reconciliation and the restoration of all of humanity。
and all of creation,。
when we consider what God is doing,。
we remember that the waters are uncharted,。
the spaces ahead are uncharted,。
but our God's an open book.。
He's not uncharted.。
He's not the one in question.。
He's known, he's revealed,。
he's made clear who he is and his heart and his purposes.。
And so when we know that,。
there becomes no real fear。
when we sit in uncharted territories.。
Even in known dangers,。
there's no risk that's too big。
if we remember the purposes behind what God is doing。
in and through us,。
that he is good,。
therefore no price is too steep,。
that he is good,。
that his ways are good,。
that his purposes for all creation is good.。
My heart for all of us here in this room and online。
is that we would consider the worthiness of God。
when we remember his purposes。
and that his purposes would be enough。
to call us to consider。
and to respond to the costly sacrifice of trusting in him.。
That we too can be aligned and so in love。
and so desire to see the fullness of God's kingdom here。
where suffering ends,。
where shame ends,。
where brokenness ends,。
like that is the kingdom。
where full restoration takes place.。
That is what our hearts should long for as his people。
when we remember his purposes.。
And when we remember this,。
we become so in love with it,。
we insist on paying for it because it is valuable.。
It is of great value.。
It is probably the most valuable thing。
this world's gonna see, right?。
We insist on paying for it.。
We will be a people who say,。
we will not sacrifice to the Lord our God,。
a life that costs us nothing.。
We will not give to him what costs us nothing.。
We wanna pay the cost.。
We wanna give all that we have。
because of how beautiful this vision of heaven on earth,。
full restoration, new creation looks like.。
I think Ananias could have never imagined。
just how wild, how big, how spread Saul's transformation。
would, what it would do for the gospel.。
I don't think he could ever realize the impact.。
See, he was just faced with a moment,。
with a small moment of examining what he believed。
and where his trust was.。
The transformation of Saul to Paul。
would have not been a result of the sacrifice。
of just knowing things about God,。
just knowing information about Jesus.。
That wouldn't be the costly sacrifice required.。
The costly sacrifice that God required of Ananias。
and today that he's requiring of us。
is belief through obedience.。
Costly sacrifice always calls and leads us to examine。
where it is that we really put our trust in.。
Listen, we can say that we trust Jesus。
till we're blue in the face,。
until we act in obedience,。
until we do something about that trust,。
until we choose to sacrifice for him.。
It's just words.。
It's just knowledge.。
It's just information.。
See, persecution comes to us all,。
but the idea of costly sacrifice。
is one that we have to choose.。
That's a decision that we have to make。
based off of the belief that we have in him.。
And that is why we have to get to this place。
where our belief isn't simply。
getting more information about God,。
isn't simply sitting in another service,。
isn't simply just knowing stuff.。
We live in an oversaturated world of information.。
There's too much information out there,。
so much information we get sick of information.。
So it's not gonna be information alone。
that's gonna transform us into people。
who live in response to Jesus.。
No, it's gonna be a call to obedience.。
Disciples who trust God must act upon the belief。
and trust that we possess.。
As the band comes up, I wanna read us this quote。
from Dietrich Bonhoeffer,。
someone who I've been reading a lot of recently.。
And he says this, he's so intellectual, he's so smart.。
He uses lots of big words.。
I don't understand half of what he says.。
Took me a long time to make it。
through the first two chapters.。
I'm probably still there.。
But I put it up here so we can read it。
and really think about what he's saying,。
because this really hit me and stopped me at my core.。
He says this, "With an abstract idea,。
"it is possible to enter into a relation of formal knowledge。
"to become enthusiastic about it,。
"and perhaps even to put it into practice,。
"but it can never be followed in personal obedience.。
"Christianity without the living Christ。
"is inevitably Christianity without discipleship,。
"and Christianity without discipleship。
"is always Christianity without Christ."。
To follow, to be a disciple of Jesus in uncharted spaces,。
we have to be a people who more than just agree。
on the information that's out there about Jesus,。
but rather people who are willing to choose。
to respond with sacrificial trust,。
even when it costs us dearly.。
My question is, where is your trust today?。
What have we been adhering to?。
What decisions are we willing to make。
should God call us into a challenging situation?。
What is it that we follow?。
Are we leaning too much on the other options。
of discipleship, right?。
Are we leaning on the other ways,。
the other things like our observations?。
Do we follow favorable circumstances so much。
that we become risk adverse to following Jesus。
if he says it's gonna hurt a little bit?。
Are we leaning too much on our own understanding?。
Are there things that hinder us。
from actively following Jesus,。
no matter where he's calling us?。
The good thing is that if he goes there,。
then that means if we follow him there, he's still there,。
so we're good, right?。
Like if Jesus is there, then we have hope,。
then we have peace,。
and we have all the things that we need.。
So following Jesus,。
it doesn't matter how charted and uncharted it is.。
If Jesus is gonna be there, that's where you wanna be,。
right?。
Trust me, that's, if Jesus is in that situation,。
then I wanna be in that situation 'cause I know who he is.。
So my prayer for us this morning, church,。
is that we would be reminded of the purposes of God,。
of his kingdom come, what it looks like on the earth today,。
that we would be reminded of all the good and all the life,。
all the fullness that he brings with his kingdom。
that he has inaugurated already,。
and that it would lead us to a place of deeper surrender,。
a place where our trust leads us to costly sacrifice,。
where we would be willing to offer our bodies。
as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing and acceptable。
unto the Lord as an act of worship in views of God mercy.。
Would we be willing to respond?。
I ask you to go ahead and stand and we'll pray together.。
Jesus, we recognize that discipleship。
is not an easy thing per se.。
God, we recognize that there are voices。
that are sometimes come across as louder than you.。
Our fears can be louder, our reason can be louder,。
the conditions of the direction you've called us into。
can sometimes be louder.。
But God, I pray supernaturally,。
would you tune our ears to only hear you?。
Would you fix our eyes to be fixed upon you alone?。
God, that no matter how challenging, no matter how hard,。
no matter what risk or what cost,。
Jesus, may we choose to decide that today we will follow you.。
We will follow you no matter how hard it is,。
no matter how easy it is, from green pastures into valleys.。
Lord, may we be a people who are committed to following you.。
And where we don't have that strength,。
Holy Spirit, would you strengthen our feet?。
Would you strengthen our minds, God?。
Would you protect us against the overthinking,。
against the doubt, against the fears。
that take us away from you?。
When our senses pull us further away from you,。
Jesus, would you be everything?。
Would you lead us so that we will truly follow you?。
Jesus. Amen.。
