Woo, hi everyone.。
Yeah, forgive me, 'cause I just got off the plane。
around 12 midnight, so a little bit,。
no, it's not called Jack Lab, but just in general.。
Anyway, good to see you.。
For you, it's just another week.。
For me, I've been away almost the entire week,。
so I felt, whoa, I haven't seen you for a long time.。
It's not true, just one week, right?。
Anyway, I was with Pastor John and Sandra,。
was he, no, he was speaking earlier.。
I was with Pastor John and Sandra in Manila。
for a conference, for a gathering。
with some other 200 people around the world。
from every different continent on the globe.。
We were focusing on one thing among many other things.。
We were talking about or having discussions。
about how we can accelerate the advance of the gospel。
in the next generation.。
Sounds like, woo, right?。
No, but all I was doing was just really getting。
to meet people from all around the world,。
to hear their stories, to share my own stories,。
to gather around the table.。
I actually have a picture I can show you.。
So we have a huge, yeah, a lot of people from everywhere,。
but I was also connected to some, what I call East Asians,。
countries like Japan and, my brain's not working,。
Korea, Taiwan, and Singapore, and we were like,。
we just built relationship, tried to be a family,。
and we adopted some non-Asians here as well,。
especially this couple, you know?。
Anyway, it's very amazing,。
and whenever I go to conferences like this,。
they will assign me with someone else in the hotel room。
'cause we have double rooms, not single rooms in hotel.。
Every time, I don't know who my roommate would be,。
and this time, I was assigned to room with a Japanese guy.。
And when we were young, when we were kids,。
we all watched Japanese dramas,。
and we thought, wow, they're so cool.。
We wanna be like them, we wanna look like them.。
You want our hair to look like them,。
and first day, true story,。
first day when I was in the hotel room,。
he arrives later than me, but that evening,。
when I went into the bathroom, I look at the bathroom,。
I'm like, OMG, the amount of hair products.。
I've never known, I've been gelling my hair。
for like, for the last 20 years, I've never known。
one single guy can own so many different products。
just for hair, maybe his teeth as well, I don't know,。
but I have a very great time,。
and I had a good time connecting with my roommate.。
He's from Japan, his name is Daisuke,。
and he is a staff member of this organization,。
or this ministry called Young Life.。
Some of you may have heard of Young Life.。
Indeed, Young Life is our partner.。
Every Thursday, Young Life, they come here。
to run a teen moms group, because we have a lot。
of young girls in this area, Tin Mun Yun Long, Tin Shui Wai.。
They may have, some may be planned, some may be unplanned,。
but they're pregnant at a very, very young age,。
and sometimes they're a bit overwhelmed,。
they don't know what to do, but Young Life,。
they were so kind, they set up this ministry,。
reaching out to them, among all the other things they do,。
they reach out to them, and they come to us and say,。
can we partner with you, can we run。
this young moms group here?。
So if you wanna volunteer, you wanna get to know them,。
go talk to June, I think she'll be there every time.。
But I was with this very fine gentleman,。
and we were just exchanging different stories,。
and I like what they do, and I actually had。
a little bit ministry experience,。
or history with Young Life as well.。
When I was a youth pastor back in Wan Chai,。
every summer, or every once in a while,。
or every other week, we would go to a school。
to minister together, or I would share。
at their camps or events.。
One thing that I've heard their leaders talk about。
that stuck with me, like, ever since I've heard about it,。
they said this in their ministry.。
They said, we earn the right to be heard in their ministry.。
So it's not because I'm a adult, you are a teenager,。
so when I come to you, you must listen to me,。
I have so much to share.。
In Chinese, we have a saying that,。
I eat salt more than you eat rice, la.。
That's how Chinese say it, but anyway,。
we're not saying because of my experience,。
because of my age, because of my status,。
that you need to listen to me.。
Just the opposite, I need to earn the right。
to be heard by you, even for a teenager.。
That's the church in the Book of Acts.。
We have been reading the Book of Acts。
for the last couple of weeks,。
and today we're going to look at Books,。
Book of Acts, chapter three.。
Ooh, come on, wake up.。
Chapter three it is, let's read that.。
Let me just open this, it's on the screen as well,。
but I'm not gonna turn around,。
I'm gonna look at my Bible,。
because I can still read small prints.。
Let's do this.。
One day, Peter and John were going up to the temple。
at the time of prayer, at three in the afternoon.。
Now a man who was lame from birth。
was being carried to the temple gate called Beautiful.。
Wow.。
Where he was put every day to back from those。
who go into the temple courts.。
When he saw Peter and John about to enter,。
he asked them for money.。
Peter looked straight at him, as did John.。
Then Peter said, "Look at us."。
So the man gave them his attention,。
expecting to get something from them.。
Then Peter said, "Silver or gold, I do not have,。
but what I do have, I give you.。
In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, walk."。
Taking him by the right hand, he helped him up,。
and instantly the man's feet and ankles became strong.。
He jumped to his feet and began to walk.。
Then he went with them into the temple courts,。
walking and jumping and praising God.。
When all the people saw him walking and praising God,。
they recognized him as the same man。
who used to sit begging at the temple gate called Beautiful.。
And they were filled with wonder and amazement。
at what had happened to him.。
We need to notice a few things before we dive into,。
or we move on with this story.。
Number one, this story was put here deliberately by Luke.。
What do I mean?。
If you still remember what we were talking about last week,。
not me, but Pastor Jennifer,。
she came and preached a sermon on Acts 2,。
the last part of Acts 2,。
saying those 3,000 people who heard Peter's sermon。
and they believe in Jesus,。
how they were doing life together.。
Now we always use that passage for discipleship.。
They meet every day, they do all this stuff and that.。
And this story, Book of Acts chapter three,。
this is a story that Luke deliberately put here。
to show you, okay, so I wrote to you what we were doing。
and let me tell you a story.。
Let me give you an illustration.。
Hey, true story, let me tell you about this.。
So he put this story here just to say,。
hey, come on guys, I'm gonna give you an example.。
Let me tell you one of these amazing stories。
that happened with the early Christians,。
that community called Church in Jerusalem.。
So he put the story there.。
And as you can see,。
I'm not gonna repeat what I put on the screen,。
but some of the elements that actually appear。
in chapter two, the last part,。
they reappear in this story。
because Luke is trying to give you an illustration.。
Is everyone with me?。
Good, right?。
So that's the first thing.。
But the other thing we need to look at。
is how this story that we just read,。
chapter three, verse one to 10,。
the healing of the beggar, the lame beggar,。
how it's related to the next part of the story.。
We know that we just end with the part。
that everyone in the temple kind of saw what happened。
and they lean in, they wanna know what's going on here.。
I know this guy, he couldn't walk down, he's walking.。
He's praising God, he's jumping.。
What just happened?。
And everybody leaned in.。
And next week, the passage we're preaching from,。
it's immediately after this passage,。
we'll be talking about these people leaning in。
and what Peter preached to them.。
That will be his second sermon recorded in the book of Acts,。
but not going to that 'cause that's next week.。
But what I wanna highlight is that。
because of what happened in that temple,。
because of this miracle,。
people actually lean in to see, to listen.。
In other words, by performing this miracle。
or by doing what they did to the lame beggar,。
Peter earned the right to be heard.。
Are you following me?。
In the book of Acts,。
Luke frequently employed a structure。
we call deed and sermon structure.。
So let me give you an example.。
We read about chapter two already.。
The Holy Spirit came and whoa, they're speaking,。
you know, tongues of fire。
and they're speaking different languages.。
Something happened, some miracle happened.。
And then Peter was the guy who stood up。
and basically give them a debrief,。
like that's what happened, give them a sermon.。
And then Luke also recorded the response of the people.。
And we're seeing this all over again.。
We're seeing in the beginning of chapter three,。
Peter and John went to the temple, healed this beggar.。
There's a story, there's the deed, something happened.。
And then next week we'll read about。
how Peter gave a sermon in response to that。
because now he earned the right。
for people to listen to him, to hear his words.。
And then we will see people's responses as well.。
And we're seeing Luke employing this structure,。
the deed-sermon structure.。
Basically it means that the deeds,。
the actions of the early church。
authenticates the message of the church.。
Or let me put it this way.。
When we look at the early church in the book of Acts,。
we see this, that our services always precedes our sermon.。
Let me repeat that again.。
Our services comes before our sermon, that simple.。
I guess sometimes in this day and age,。
what we like to do is we like to preach at people.。
We like to share a lot of information.。
We like to talk a lot.。
Sometimes we will have a bit of action.。
Sometimes we're, okay, talk to you.。
Now, whether you believe or not,。
I'll leave that up to you.。
But in the book of Acts,。
Luke gave us a very clear format or structure.。
Deeds and sermon, service before you talk.。
And so this is what he's been trying to communicate to us.。
The book of Acts, it's as much about the actions,。
the deeds of the disciples as what they have said.。
As much as what they have done,。
and then what they have said.。
And this name, the name of the book Acts,。
actually it was not given by Luke.。
Almost want to say other names.。
Luke didn't give this book a name.。
He never wrote, okay, I wrote a book.。
The title of the book, it's called Acts.。
No, he never said that.。
The title was actually given by early church leaders。
all the way until like second century,。
middle second century.。
And when they try to give a name to the book,。
they use this Greek word called praxis.。
I know sometimes we still use this word.。
We still see this word around.。
We can have the next slide.。
This word praxis, it means action.。
It means the deeds.。
All the stuff they recorded in this book is the deeds,。
the action of the church.。
So church, what we're seeing in the book of Acts is this.。
The church in Acts, it's a church in action.。
Let me say this again, 'cause I'm not hearing any amen.。
The church in Acts is a church in action.。
All right, that's much better.。
And you know, Luke, when he wrote this book,。
there's an open ending.。
It's not like, okay, now this story ends here.。
It's basically an open ending.。
A lot of scholars will tell you that the book of Acts。
has an open ending because the story has not finished.。
Today, you and me, we're in this church.。
We're a part of the global church.。
Like I was with those people a couple of days ago,。
or just yesterday, I was with these people。
in the global church.。
The global church continue to write the book of Acts.。
And if that church we have just read in the book of Acts。
is a church in action, then I'm telling you that today,。
in this world, the global church here in Hong Kong,。
in Yuen Long, the Vang Yuen Long,。
we also have to be a church in action.。
That's who we are.。
That's what we are supposed to be.。
So with this in mind, let's dive back into Acts number three.。
Chapter three, we need to know that Luke always give us。
a lot of background information in his writing.。
Sometimes, we're like, oh, okay, that's, you know,。
just some details or just, you know, some information.。
Sometimes we don't pay attention to it.。
We just look at, whoa, what happened, the miracle.。
But a lot of details, a lot of things were communicated。
in the details, for example.。
So verse one, it says this.。
"One day, Peter and John were going up to the temple。
"at the time of prayer at three in the afternoon."。
So this time, some translations,。
older translations refer it to the ninth hour.。
It actually, 3 p.m., actually coincided。
with one of the three daily prayer times set out。
in Jewish traditions, meaning Jewish,。
they pray three times a day, a little bit like what we see。
the Muslims do nowadays.。
They pray three times a day.。
It'll be once in the morning, once at 3 p.m.,。
and then once at sunset.。
And when that happened, when that 3 p.m. prayer happened,。
just, it also just so happened, it coincided。
with the Jewish daily sacrifice.。
They have daily sacrifice in the temple two times a day.。
Just so happened once, it's at 3 p.m.。
So Luke is trying to tell us two things here, at least.。
Number one, that when we see John and Peter。
going to the temple, doing this whole Jewish prayer thing,。
it means, you know, to that audience,。
that when Luke wrote this book,。
the church is growing so rapidly among the Gentiles,。
and they were having all this conflict with the Jews.。
But Luke was saying, you see, even the early church,。
they didn't reject their Jewish tradition,。
their Jewish, like, heritage, their roots.。
But the second thing is also very important.。
It's the logistical information.。
You know, 3 p.m. at the temple, there's a sacrifice,。
there's a prayer service, like a prayer night meeting.。
I don't know how many people come to our prayer meeting,。
but I think a lot of people go to their prayer meeting,。
so, and there's a sacrifice thing going on at 3 p.m.,。
so I can tell you, it's rush hour.。
It's like that day on Monday, on Monday, at 1 10 p.m.,。
when T8 become T3, everybody suddenly have to go out,。
and when you go to the MTR station,。
Yuen Long station, Long Ping station,。
that's how it looks like at 3 p.m. in Jerusalem,。
at the temple, it's rush hour.。
It just means there are a lot of people。
rushing to the temple.。
But then we also see another information after this.。
It says, "Now a man who was lame from birth。
"was being carried to the temple gate called Beautiful."。
Now, where is this gate called Beautiful?。
If you ask these questions,。
different scholars will give you different answers.。
They're still debating over this.。
There's no one set answer to where is Beautiful Gate,。
but let me give you a little bit of geography。
of Jerusalem in the first century.。
Number one, if we imagine our space, our church,。
it's the temple, then where you're all seated at right now,。
it's called the outer courts.。
Basically, it's a court for the Gentiles.。
So if you're not Jewish, this is as far as you can go.。
You can't go any further.。
And then from the outer court, there is a gate here。
that you would enter into the court of the women.。
So the women can stay in this court,。
they can do different things.。
But then from the women's court,。
there is another gate entering into what we call,。
this is for the Jewish people, for the people of God.。
This is where we consider the holies and the holy of holies.。
This is where the sacrifice happens.。
This is the sanctuary, this is the place.。
So if you ask Bible scholars nowadays,。
where is this Beautiful Gate,。
they will tell you it's either like,。
maybe this gate between the court of women。
and the inner court,。
or between the court of women and the outer court.。
So it's one of these, it's probably one of these.。
But no matter what, no matter which one is the right answer,。
the thing behind is the same, it's a strong symbol.。
This symbol means wherever this Beautiful Gate。
is here or there,。
it's a place that is so close to God's presence.。
It's a place of nearestness to God,。
yet also there's a visible line。
between what is outside and what is further in.。
There's a physical boundary here that he cannot cross,。
which means this lame beggar。
that was put at the gate of Beautiful, he was an outsider.。
And why was he an outsider?。
Because in Jewish tradition,。
if you look at the Old Testament,。
if you look at the book of Leviticus,。
there are laws written,。
if someone has any kind of blemish,。
like they're lame, they're blind,。
they're not complete,。
they're not in shalom kind of condition,。
they cannot get into the sanctuary,。
they cannot get into the temple,。
they cannot get close to the presence of God.。
He was an outsider.。
And from this information,。
we knew he was lame from birth,。
which means even though he was 100% Jewish。
and he has been in Jerusalem maybe his entire life,。
but he has never stepped foot in the place of worship.。
This beautiful gate is as far as he can go,。
but this beautiful gate also mark him an identity,。
that he is an outsider because he cannot go in。
because he's not shalom.。
So this man has been there,。
but luckily there are people who come。
to this worship prayer services,。
who come to sacrifice and people who would come。
in the middle of the day at 3 p.m.。
Like there are better things to do,。
I know like you're not going to your afternoon tea。
with your colleagues,。
you're coming to the temple to offer sacrifice to pray,。
while you must love God a lot.。
And if you love God a lot,。
then you will take his word very seriously.。
If you take God's word very seriously,。
then you would know, yeah,。
our generosity is one of the way to express our identity。
as God follower, even with the Jewish.。
Generosity has always been a way they express,。
you know, their piety or, you know, their love for God.。
So if I am at the beautiful gate。
where everybody has to go through。
to get into the place of worship,。
the place to make sacrifice,。
oh, these people are so nice,。
maybe they will give me some money.。
Then I'll be, you know, I'll get something from them,。
I'll have something.。
So this blind or this man,。
this sorry, not blind, this lame man,。
oh, wake up, wake up, wake up.。
This lame man, he was hoping,。
his hope was that if I stay here,。
maybe out of their generosity,。
I could have enough just to last another day.。
And that's all he was looking for.。
That's all he could expect of.。
His position at the gate is symbolic。
that he will always be an outsider.。
And it's only by the generosity of this insider。
that he could survive another day.。
So when he saw Peter and John about to enter,。
verse three, he asked them for money.。
Peter looked straight at him,。
asked did John.。
The funny thing is this, you know,。
the Bible says this guy has been there every day.。
And we know Peter and John,。
they have been in Jerusalem for quite a long time.。
No, they follow Jesus into Jerusalem,。
and then Jesus died on the cross,。
but they stay in Jerusalem.。
And then Jesus asked them to stay in Jerusalem.。
And then it's 50 days, that's Pentecost,。
they're still in Jerusalem.。
So if Peter and John has been going to the temple every day,。
and this guy was put there every day,。
that would mean they must have had met each other.。
That's simple logic, right?。
You following?。
'Cause you guys look a little bit tired like me, so.。
Anyway, so they must have met each other,。
but have you been to a place where,。
you know, some people, they're always there.。
I know in Wan Chai, there are a few people now,。
I could even recognize them,。
like they're always on the streets in the same location,。
and, you know, asking for money.。
And sometimes, like,。
I regret that I have to say this,。
but sometimes when I walk past the streets of Wan Chai,。
when I go back to Wan Chai,。
sometimes they just fade into the background.。
Like, yeah, I know when I walk past this, like, Jollibee,。
or when I walk past this Yoshinoya,。
there's always this guy outside,。
like, sitting here waiting for money,。
if I'm on that bridge.。
They just fade into the background,。
they just become part of, you know,。
part of the, I know, decoration of the temple,。
it just become part of the background,。
nobody sees them.。
But this is what the Holy Spirit does when he comes to us.。
When we walk past someone。
that has already faded into the background,。
the Holy Spirit will come and talk to us,。
and say, "Hey, hey, hey, look at him, look at him."。
And here, Luke used a word。
that means Peter gave his full attention to this guy。
that he has walked past, I don't know how many times.。
Peter gave his full attention,。
John gave him his full attention,。
and they were looking at him.。
Nowadays, I don't go out at night, you know,。
I'm a dad, I stay home with my family,。
hey, where's my family?。
I thought they were here.。
Anyway, I stay home with my family,。
but I used to go out a lot,。
I used to like langai, like in Cantonese means,。
English means like I just hang out with friends a lot,。
till late night, I think there was one time。
or in Wan Chai, there's a CG thing,。
I was with Iphan, definitely.。
I left, I left,。
it was somebody's clubhouse or home in Wan Chai,。
when I left, it was 1 a.m., I remember.。
I left and I saw a lady on the street,。
I was like, oh, it's time, I should try to catch a bus。
or whatever that I can go back,。
I live in Causeway back then, a walking distance,。
but I was catching, I must hurry,。
but the Holy Spirit did this.。
And I just look at her, and she was those homeless,。
she was a homeless lady with all these plastic bags,。
with her, and I was like, should I just go?。
But the Holy Spirit made me look at her,。
how can you just turn away and walk away?。
So I went to her and I just say,。
hi, have you had dinner?。
And she, out of all her plastic bags,。
she took out this one of these like lunch boxes,。
and actually it's whatever is inside, I forgot,。
but it stinks a little bit that I remember,。
and I said, is this your dinner?。
It's 1 a.m., and she said, yeah, this is my food,。
I'm like, no way, and we were near Wan Chai MTR,。
so I just went to the MTR and I was just,。
I just said, hey, can I get you something from McDonald's?。
And I said, hey, actually, I'm so hungry right now,。
I wanna go to McDonald's and grab something,。
would you like, can I get you something?。
She said, yeah, fish, you know, fish au filet,。
I said, okay, just wait for me here.。
So I went to McDonald's, grabbed whatever,。
and then I came back, and I wanted to have a chat with her,。
and then she ran away.。
But there was another time I was in Mong Kok,。
you know, Mong Kok, if you ever took the bus to Mong Kok,。
I was on the side where it used to be this pedestrian area,。
but if you wanna take the bus back to Yuen Long,。
a lot of you, you look like you never took a bus。
from Mong Kok to Yuen Long,。
but you have to cross the main road,。
the Nathan Road, to the other side and come back,。
so you either cross, you know, traffic light,。
or you go through that tunnel, that subway,。
so, oh, somebody nodded, okay.。
So there's one time I just walk through that tunnel,。
and then again, I saw these two men here,。
it's late in the night, 11 something,。
and they were having, like, two men sharing, like,。
a box of rice or something.。
I was walking, I'm like, man, it's late,。
my wife is waiting for me, she will be angry。
if I don't go home.。
She's, oh, she's here, okay.。
I thought she was, anyway, and then I have that, like,。
hey, hey, hey, look, so I turn around and look.。
Okay, I walk back, and I ask them,。
so, the two of you are sharing, like,。
one, like, lunchbox, is that enough for you?。
Can I get you something, what would you like to eat?。
So one guy just randomly said, oh, he wanted this or that,。
but that was late, in Hong Kong, you know,。
nowadays, past 10 p.m., there's nothing out there,。
except maybe one or two stores.。
So I went up the other side of the tunnel,。
found this restaurant that is still open,。
and got some, like, (speaks in foreign language)。
I don't even know how, oh, chicken feet rice, yes.。
And I brought back to the tunnel,。
and they were, like, just enjoying,。
and so, you know, as Christians, we wanna talk, right?。
So I'm like, so, I just wanna tell you Jesus love you,。
you know, and to my surprise, one of the guys,。
you know, he was homeless, but he lives in,。
under tunnel, you know, that, and he just picked up,。
just pulled out a Bible from all his stash,。
and said, oh, you know what, I always have a question here。
that I don't really understand.。
(audience laughs)。
And that random dinner turned into a Bible study。
in that tunnel in Mong Kok.。
I don't get that every time, but sometimes,。
if I put service before sermon, if I try,。
if I become, try to become a church in action,。
I know sometimes I still earn the right to be heard,。
that I could still share the message with them.。
The Church of Jesus has to be a church in action.。
We need to have our services before our sermons.。
We need to serve before we try to speak into people's life.。
Wait, where am I, sorry, brain's not working.。
You know the most beautiful thing that day。
when Peter pulled that guy up from the ground,。
and he was jumping and leaping, you know,。
the Bible says he followed Peter and John,。
jump, jump, jump into the place of worship,。
'cause now he's whole, he's healed, he's shalom,。
he can be in the presence of God.。
The thing is not just about his physical healing.。
Now, from an outsider, because of that miracle,。
he was brought into the presence of God, he was accepted.。
He didn't just experience a miracle。
that he could go and play football now,。
but he received a miracle that now he can know。
I'm truly a son of God, that I'm accepted,。
that I could be in the presence of God,。
I can come and worship him, I can join, I belong.。
That's the miracle he received,。
and today, here in Hong Kong,。
who are the people who are so marginalized?。
Who are the people who are so rejected?。
Who are the ones who need to be accepted。
into the presence of God to know。
that they are cherished, to know that they have a place here?。
Who are those people?。
But more importantly, who will be the ones。
who go to them to serve them?。
Even before we speak anything,。
we bring any message, any sermon to them,。
who would be those people?。
That's my question for all of us.。
And I just wanna, I just wanna say,。
this story is such a powerful reminder。
of what happened when the church in action。
responds to the need with the power of Jesus' name.。
It's more than just physical healing,。
it's a radical transformation of this man,。
and also the acceptance into God's presence.。
And like I ask, where are these people in our city right now?。
Where are these people in Yuen Long right now。
that we can engage with, that we can touch their hearts,。
not just with a donation, although that's also very good,。
but who are these people that we can engage with。
through the power, the transformative power of Jesus?。
When I planned this whole sermon, like last week,。
I was supposed to end here,。
'cause you know, sometimes, if I'm just honest,。
it's easier to preach a principle than a miracle.。
You get what I mean?。
It's easier to preach a principle than to preach a miracle,。
because I tell you some principles, you go do ABC,。
that's all what we're going out to do, that's easy.。
If I'm telling you God is calling us to go out there。
to perform these miracles, you're like,。
I'm not so sure about it, and next week you come back,。
maybe two or three of you would maybe try it,。
and then, but you fail, and maybe, I don't know.。
But I've prayed for people before and nothing happened.。
I experienced that.。
I went to talk to people and they run away before.。
I experienced that.。
So if I'm telling you to go out and do all these miracles,。
maybe you would try, but maybe nothing would happen,。
and you would come back very disappointed,。
and I would look like, oh, like,。
in Cantonese, (speaking in foreign language)。
like, I'll be, you know.。
I'm like, God, maybe, you know, I'll just stop。
at all these very nice principle, you know,。
we go and serve and all that.。
But then yesterday, at the last day of the conference,。
in the morning, the speaker gave a message.。
He said, you know, God, when God calls people,。
he always calls them to do the impossible.。
Because if God calls you to do the possible,。
then, then you can just do it by yourself.。
All the stuff that I tell you,。
go and, you know, find someone under the tunnel。
and go and talk to them,。
these are all the things you can do.。
And with you, yeah, okay, I have done it,。
but God always calls us to do the impossible.。
God has empowered John and Peter,。
the entire early church, to do something。
that is impossible.。
If that is possible, then we would tend。
to rely on our own strength.。
But if God calls us to do something。
that is so difficult, that is so big,。
so beyond ourselves, that we know we have to rely on him.。
But if we look at stories in the Bible。
about all these impossible again and again,。
such as the story of Jesus feeding the 5,000.。
You know, when Jesus wanted to feed the 5,000,。
he said, hey, why don't you guys go and feed them?。
He told the disciples, you guys go and feed them.。
Disciples were like, what?。
No.。
You know, if they say yes,。
the story would have been the disciples fed the 5,000,。
not Jesus fed the 5,000.。
'Cause the original command was。
the disciples go to feed the 5,000.。
But you know, we're all like, oh, I can't do it,。
what do I have?。
In the same way, when Moses was leading。
the Israelites out of Egypt,。
they came to the Red Sea, and God was telling Moses,。
part of the Red Sea, Moses was like, what?。
Me?。
But in all these stories, God asked them,。
or Jesus asked them always the same questions.。
What do you have?。
What do you have?。
What do you have?。
What do you have?。
The disciples brought forth a boy。
with five loaves and two fish.。
Moses says, I have a staff in my hand,。
and God says, use that, use whatever you have.。
So I just learned this yesterday.。
I'm trying to live it out.。
So what I learned is, yes, when God's calling us。
to do the impossible, the principle or the pattern is this,。
that we look at what we have,。
we just go to do what we think we can do possibly,。
and God will do the impossible in that process.。
But here's the thing.。
What do you have?。
What do we have?。
You see, in this story, Peter said this,。
like, you know, silver and gold, I do not have.。
I give you what I have, and so in Jesus' name,。
come, stand up.。
I think now in this day and age,。
we're quite like the opposite.。
I have gold, I have silver, a little bit, not a lot,。
just a little bit, tiny little bit,。
especially after we have to pay for tuition,。
tiny little bit.。
But I'm not sure if I have Jesus or not.。
Well, don't get me wrong.。
I have the knowledge of Jesus.。
I read the Bible a couple times.。
I have all this theology.。
I have all this knowledge, like, you know, Wikipedia,。
AI, Google, I've learned a lot of knowledge about Jesus.。
I know something, but do I have Jesus?。
Am I in this active relationship with him?。
Am I in this intimacy with him that I know his heart,。
that I walk in the fullness of his power every single day,。
wherever I go, whether I'm in the office, at home,。
or with someone else, am I like this?。
Am I in such a relationship with Jesus。
that I can say the same words that Peter said?。
I have Jesus, I'm gonna give you Jesus.。
I think nowadays it's so much easier for us.。
Okay, here is my gold and silver.。
I'll give you a tiny little bit.。
I'll share a bit with you.。
I'll open my pocket.。
That's still a Holy Spirit thing.。
Don't get me wrong, I'm not discouraging that.。
Please continue to give, you know, to give to the poor.。
Continue, let's be generous.。
That's correct.。
But do we have Jesus to give to them?。
God is calling us to do the impossible here in Yuen Long,。
here in Hong Kong.。
He's asking us, what do you have?。
And I'm asking myself this question, do I have Jesus?。
Couple nights ago, I was with a bunch of Gen Z.。
Did I mention this conference,。
there are different generations.。
We have as old as Pastor John and Sandra,。
and we have some 20-year-olds in the conference as well.。
So there's one night, there's no program, it's free time.。
This bunch of young people,。
this bunch of Gen Z in the conference,。
they said, "Oh, we want to worship God."。
I said, "Yeah, sure, go, worship God."。
And so they just sat around the stage。
with all the instruments.。
They start playing, and I just like,。
this year I started as a young adult pastor,。
so these are young adults, maybe I should be with them.。
So I just tag along, and I was thinking,。
hey, I'm the young adult pastor here.。
These are the young adults.。
Should I say something?。
Should I say a prayer?。
Should I read some scripture?。
Should I preach something?。
Should I do something?。
I don't know, but they were just worshiping,。
and suddenly God just turned my attention.。
I felt I just need to kneel down and worship Him,。
and their worship was ministering to me,。
and I was just crying and crying and crying。
until all my rainos is all over the floor,。
and it was just so gross.。
And then after a while, I got up,。
and I said this to them.。
I said, you know, earlier this year,。
I was called to be a young adult pastor.。
I thought I would be ministering to people like you,。
but in the last 50 minutes, all I could sense,。
all I could experience is that you guys,。
your worship was ministering to me,。
and not just that.。
When I was listening,。
when I was being in that worshipful moment,。
I was asking myself, I'm like,。
wow, these amazing young people all over the world,。
they're so amazing.。
Their pastors must be so great。
to have raised up these amazing people.。
Well, our young people are very great as well.。
I can't take any credit yet。
'cause we barely spend a lot of time together,。
but I'm like, wow, they're so amazing.。
They're so smart.。
They're so intelligent.。
They love Jesus.。
If we just let them lead another hour,。
I think revival would just break out here。
in the Philippines or in the world,。
and I was like, I don't think I'm like their pastor.。
I don't have what they have.。
I'm like, if I could be as half as good as their pastor,。
maybe that would be great,。
and then I just heard this gentle voice telling me,。
you know, son, in my kingdom, nobody asks for half.。
They only ask for double,。
and so I got up.。
[alarm beeping]。
Oh, wow, that's wake up call, yes.。
So I got up, and I shared this with those young people.。
I said, hey, whatever you guys have,。
I wanna bring that back to Hong Kong.。
I'm not sure if I have what you have.。
I just want to be that torchbearer to bring this fire,。
whatever I'm experiencing here,。
I wanna just bring that back to my church,。
back to Hong Kong, back to where I'm from.。
Can you all pray for me?。
And so this happened,。
and a room full of young people,。
they just gathered around me.。
They're from all over the world.。
They just came and just started praying。
and prophesying over me,。
and when they were praying,。
or when they were about to finish praying,。
something happened in the room.。
I sensed that, but I couldn't really put words to it,。
but later, some of these Gen Z came back to me。
and said, Chapman, did you know,。
when you ask us to pray for you,。
and we pray for you,。
the floodgate of heaven just opened,。
sorry, the floodgate of heaven just opened,。
and we could sense that,。
because the worship transformed.。
They were choosing songs,。
okay, what should we sing,。
but all of a sudden,。
like people just spontaneously singing。
and singing and singing one song after another.。
Nobody wanna stop.。
Everybody would raise their hand。
and shout at the top of their lungs to worship God.。
We just sensed this powerful presence of the Holy Spirit,。
and until Pastor John is waiting for me for dinner,。
and then I have to leave,。
and so I left,。
and I went to my group,。
that group you saw on the screen,。
I said, so sorry, guys,。
I need to go pick up my phone and wallet,。
could you wait for me for two minutes?。
I went up to my room, came back,。
my entire group was gone.。
I was like, how dare they don't wait for me。
for just two minutes?。
But then I realized later,。
they saw me, they saw I was totally wracked and done,。
so they said, I must go and check it out,。
what's going on in that room,。
and some of the people from our group,。
they said, all right, I'm hungry,。
but I want this,。
I'm not going out for dinner anymore,。
I'm just gonna stay here.。
What do you have?。
You see, we can always stay here and fool ourselves,。
come back week after week and think we have Jesus,。
until we become, try to become a church in action,。
we go out, we do something,。
and we know, I don't have that,。
I don't have what Peter can give.。
For me, I'm like, at that moment in that room,。
I'm like, I don't have what they have,。
I don't have what Peter have,。
but I want it so badly,。
and if I could just come, whatever, I don't care,。
if I could just come before them and ask,。
God, can you give me that?。
Guys, can you pray for me?。
Can you share that with me,。
so that I could have that,。
so that whoever I pray for,。
when I go back to Hong Kong,。
they will be touched by the Holy Spirit,。
so that whoever I speak to,。
they will sense the presence of God,。
if I, can you give me that?。
Can you share that with me?。
Can you pray for me?。
I want that, 'cause I wanna be like Peter,。
when he said, in Jesus' name, stand,。
and I want to see miracles,。
and I know sometimes I don't really have it,。
I just fake it sometimes,。
and I just talk about all these principles,。
and I don't really even dare to talk about a miracle,。
because I was so afraid of failure as well,。
but if we come before God and say,。
God, we wanna be serious about your word,。
we wanna be that church,。
we wanna be that church, church in action,。
we wanna be that church,。
like that one that we just read,。
that would walk in this city with miracles,。
so that we would bring all these outsiders。
back into your kingdom,。
back into your presence,。
they could experience the goodness of you,。
God, I want that, could you give us that?。
And so what I wanna do is,。
I wanna just turn the next two,。
maybe three or five minutes,。
I wanna turn this room into a prayer meeting,。
but it's voluntary,。
if you wanna come before God with me,。
and say, God, I want your presence,。
I want Jesus,。
I'm not sure if I can stand in the streets like Peter,。
and said, I have Jesus, I'm gonna share Jesus,。
I'm not sure if I can share that,。
but God, today, I wanna pray into that,。
I wanna ask you,。
I wanna ask on behalf of our church,。
that we could be a community,。
we could be a church in action,。
and when we go on the street,。
yeah, maybe silver and gold, I can share with you,。
but I have even something better to share with you,。
I have Jesus that I can share with you,。
if you want to be that kind of church with me,。
if you wanna be that kind of people of God,。
I invite you in the next couple of minutes,。
we're just gonna worship,。
we're just gonna pray,。
and we're just gonna ask God to give us Jesus,。
to give us his presence,。
to give us the Holy Spirit,。
so that here in Yuen Long,。
we know there is at least a body,。
a church, a community,。
they said, I know what I don't have,。
but I'm gonna pray until I have,。
maybe you can come back on Tuesday night,。
talk about, we pray into the empowerment of the Holy Spirit,。
I'll just pray until I have it,。
I'll pray until I can say the same words,。
like Peter on the streets,。
and we'll see people being brought into the kingdom of God,。
if anyone here, you're with me,。
I invite you to stand and let's pray,。
if you like to, you can stand,。
if someone you want to, you can kneel,。
you can do whatever,。
but there is only one posture here,。
a posture of asking,。
a posture of God, I know I don't have,。
but I want, I want to,。
I desire, I long for.。
(gentle music)。
Father, we come before you.。
Father, we thank you,。
because this is a safe space that we can be real,。
that you're not condemning us,。
you're not saying we're not good enough for you,。
you just love us,。
just want more of your presence in our lives,。
you just want us to see the reality about our lives,。
and our relationship with you,。
you're not here to pick on us,。
say how bad we are,。
you're just here,。
you want the best for us,。
and you want the best for this world through us,。
so we're here.。
Holy Spirit, I pray that you would come upon this church,。
this community, these people.。
I don't have it,。
but I want it, God.。
I want to be able to say those words。
Peter said 2,000 years ago,。
I have Jesus that I can share with you.。
I'm not just sharing knowledge,。
I'm not just sharing words,。
I'm sharing the reality of the gospel,。
the transformative reality of the gospel,。
of the Holy Spirit power,。
I want that God,。
and we want that God,。
so we're here.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(soft music)。
(gentle music)。
