The past is here at the Vine and we are so glad you're in this room online with us right now watching from wherever you might be watching。
Around the world around Hong Kong also in our overflow as well. We're so glad that you guys are with us, too。
It is vision Sunday。
And vision Sunday is one of the Sundays of this year that we see is。
most important most dear to the direction in the future of us as a。
Community if you've not been here at the vine for long, you're probably wondering what is this?。
Vision Sunday is a time where we share。
What we see as God's vision for us as a church。
what we see is God's heart for us as the community that's called the vine and。
We talk about what God wants to see happen in and through us in the year ahead and that as part of that。
We ask you boldly。
We ask you boldly to use your resources。
superficially towards the vision that God has for his church and for us here at the vine in Hong Kong and that's。
What we're gonna do today。
But as I was praying over the last number of months in preparation for today。
As we as a leadership here at the vine were praying and seeking God's heart。
We felt like God was actually calling a shift for us。
Calling us actually to approach things today a little bit differently。
As I was praying about two months ago asking God for his vision for the vine. I。
Hope God say this he said Andrew. What is my intent for my church?。
Kind of a simple question, right Andrew。
What is my intent for my church and I figured as a pastor of a church?。
I should have an answer to this question, right?。
Have you ever had God ask you a question and then you're like, I'm gonna now teach God something, right?。
I'm gonna now theologize with God, right? So he's like Angie. What is my intent for my church?。
And I'm like, I know this question. I've given up my life to build and serve the church。
I said it's this that that we as the the leaders of the church need to get around the people in the church and and。
Equip them for works of service。
So that together we would be built up to become more and more like Christ Jesus。
I basically started preaching Ephesians 4 at God, right? And I said like this is what it's all about God, right?。
This is about us gathering together in a room or gathering wherever we're sitting online watching this and and spending time speaking life into each。
Other so that we can disciple each other so that we can grow up to more maturity and become more like Christ Jesus。
I felt really good about myself preaching to God, you know, and。
It's so funny, you know。
God has such a gentle but also very direct way of speaking back when we're arrogant with him。
He said hmm。
Have I heard God say to you? Hmm。
That's when you know, you're in trouble. Hmm。
He said I want you to read something because you've forgotten。
What my intent for the church really is and he led me to a passage in Ephesians chapter 3。
I want to read this to you because this has changed so much of my life in the last few months。
He writes this this is Paul writing to the church in Ephesus。
He's speaking of God. He says his intent was that now through the church the manifold wisdom of God。
Should be made known to the rulers and the authorities in the heavenly realms。
According to his eternal purpose, which he has accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord。
Paul is writing to a small group of people。
who at this time gathered in house churches in the city of Ephesus a。
City that was filled with people who worshipped sacred and magic cults。
It had one of the largest temples of worship to Diana in the whole of the Greek and Roman Empire。
It was a place that was famous for people to go to to do idol worship to speak about this。
Magic cult that they're a part of and Paul picks up a little bit of that language and he says here's my intent。
My intent is that the manifold wisdom of God。
Would be revealed to the authorities and the powers in the heavenly realms。
Which is Paul using magical language to speak of the reality of God wanting to say something to the world。
And he said here's God's intent. He wants the manifold wisdom of God to be revealed to the world。
And so we might be wondering what is this idea of the manifold wisdom of God?。
Well Paul in chapter 1 in the book of Ephesians actually explains what that is。
And he said here's the will of God. Here's what all of God's wisdom is about。
He wants to see everything on heaven and earth come under one person. That is Christ Jesus。
Paul Paul pulls out his beautiful image of what the whole of God's intent and his will and his desire and his wisdom is for。
the world that everything all of the broken things all of the separate things all the divided things all of the things that hate all of。
The sin all of the stuff that's in us as humanity that all of it would find its rightful place its renewed place。
It's restored place under Christ Jesus。
It's this beautiful vision that God's wisdom is reconciliation。
God's wisdom is。
Restorative life for people it is so that in him and through him we would become new。
Creations the old would go would go and the new would come。
So it's a pool lays out this incredible picture of what God's will and desire in the world is that everything that is currently broken and separated。
would actually come to new unity and life and。
reconciliation and restoration under the person of Jesus Christ and。
Then he says this it is his intent now that through the church。
That manifold wisdom would be known to the world。
Here this guy's through the church。
Now remember he's speaking to a bunch of people who are hiding basically in house churches。
Who are probably 20 30 40 people at that time?。
This is 300 years before the institution of church where church becomes more of an organized religion。
He's writing to a bunch of people in a house。
And he's saying here's God's vision that through the 40 of you who meet regularly in house churches。
That you through you would come the manifold wisdom of God to see。
Reconciliation and love and and forgiveness and grace be seen and heard in the world。
That should blow our minds。
through the church。
That actually what we do when we gather in these rooms is not actually primarily about us feeling better about us. Oh。
I'm gonna preach on this one。
That actually what this is about when we gather together whether that's in larger rooms like this whether it's in homes like those watching online。
Right now whether it's in workplaces wherever it might be where where God's people gather together。
Through that God wants to release a manifold vision of his wisdom in the world. He wants to release restoration。
Reconciliation and love to the world which means something and this is gonna sound very controversial。
But stick with me for a second, which means that the church is not actually about Christians。
Come on, the church is not actually about Christians。
That the church gathers together on behalf of the broken world around it。
That we get to be the manifold wisdom of God to the world。
That's exciting。
That's what it's supposed to be all about。
and so here I am preaching at God about the fact that we're all gonna equip ourselves for works of service so that we might。
Become mature and to the wholeness and the wholeness of Christ and that is absolutely what God does also through the church。
But then God says but you've forgotten something。
You've forgotten actually a hidden imperative that is so critical that actually what I want to do through you is release my love my wisdom。
My reconciliation my will to the world out there。
So when you gather what better be in your minds what better be in your heart is everything out there and not just what's on in here。
Hmm so。
When I was praying and saying God, what is the vision that you have for the vine God quite rightly flip the script。
And he said to me Andrew your question should not be what is my vision for the vine?。
Your question actually should be what is my vision for Hong Kong?。
Because if the church is。
the manifold wisdom of God to the world and if the vine is。
Founded and it's growing and it's part of the city of Hong Kong what you should really be asking me Andrew is what is my?。
Heart for Hong Kong because I love Hong Kong。
I love the people of this city。
And I see Hong Kong and I have so much for the city and really if you want to be a church that has a vision。
Here's what your vision should be your vision should be in line with what my vision is for the world。
What my vision is for the brokenness that's out there what my vision is for the fact that there are so many people who are。
Scrambling trying to find the key to open the lock that would actually set them free and the church is silent. Oh。
I'm gonna preach today. Are you ready?。
but the church has been given the access code and。
It's our season。
to release our voice。
And if you think about it。
Surely now more than ever. I。
Mean this is why I think that we have been called into intimacy as a church in this year。
You see I think so often when we think about intimacy we actually think about ourselves again。
We think about intimacy being primarily about my own personal relationship with God and what that can do for me。
But I actually think this that intimacy when a church is called to intimacy。
It's about drawing closer to the heartbeat of Jesus。
closer to the。
Relationship we have with the Holy Spirit closer to the power that is found in the love of the Father。
So that yes, we may hear about ourselves and grow and change and disciple and become more and more like Christ Jesus。
But also so that we could hear what God has in his heart for Hong Kong。
And I believe over the year ahead as we gather together。
Individually and corporately on Sundays and connect into intimacy with Christ. It's because he wants to draw us in to send us out。
He's not drawing us in for in sake。
This is really important. We actually saw this last year throughout the whole of the Exodus series。
Didn't we in that series?。
We saw that God took his people who were enslaved in in slavery in Egypt drew them out of that drew them into himself。
Around Mount Sinai gave them the law so they could understand his heart。
Why so that he could then send them out into the promised land so that they could reveal the manifold wisdom of God in the world。
Could it be that our year of intimacy is really not so much about just us and our own personal growth。
But maybe it's about Hong Kong and its growth. I。
Don't know about you。
But most of my foreign friends right now. The main question they asked me is this。
Do you really still want to live in Hong Kong?。
Anyone else heard that recently like do you really still want to live in Hong Kong?。
Like have you seen Hong Kong right now? I mean, I mean surely there is also。
Singapore and Taylor Swift like maybe you can move to Singapore and you would have Taylor Swift you have messy。
They have Taylor Swift. Okay, they they have Ed Sheeran. They have Coldplay。
They have a great economy like really do you still really want to live in Hong Kong?。
And if we're honest with ourselves。
There's actually some pretty big challenges in Hong Kong right now。
Hong Kong's been through a rough time over the last five years or so。
the social unrest and changes that happened off the back of that。
With Kovac coming into our city and some of the challenges that were found in Kovac for all of us。
Hong Kong's had a pretty rough time。
And although now we're about a year and a half out of some of that really hard stuff。
Hong Kong's still struggling I think to recover and。
There's still some pretty major issues that are right here on our doorstep。
One of things we have to realize right now is that Hong Kong is facing a mental health crisis。
Recent study was done by the Hong Kong Federation of Youth Groups and they looked at and interviewed personally。
4,000 secondary school students and out of all of these。
4,000 secondary school students from a whole cross-spectrum of local schools in Hong Kong. Here's what they found。
51.9% of them had early emotional symptoms of depression。
51.9%。
They then found within the 51.9% that about。
48.6% of them were actually registering the highest levels possible for anxiety and stress as a scale that you can。
Basically discover somebody's anxiety and stress levels。
48.6 had the highest anxiety and stress levels that are possible to be recorded。
Save the Children Hong Kong did a recent study and they wanted to look at youth suicide and。
They looked at the ages of 15 to 24。
And they looked at a hundred thousand out of a hundred thousand people in that age range in Hong Kong。
How many have actually committed suicide? So what is the suicide rate?。
Here's what they found. They found that the rate was six point two people out of a hundred thousand back in 2014。
But in 2020 that had risen to ten point four percent or ten point four people out of a hundred thousand。
Now that was in 2020. I wonder what that statistic would be if they did it now in 2024。
I would argue it's jumped up even more from that point and here's something else they found in that report。
And this blows my mind。
They also looked at university students in our city and they discovered that ten。
percent of the people they spoke to。
Had either tried to kill themselves in the past year or had thought about killing themselves in the past year。
ten percent。
We have a mental health crisis in our city。
Outside of that you just need to look economically and politically at some of the challenges we have in the city。
Hong Kong has always had one of the highest。
Gini coefficients in Hong in the world。
That's the gap that there is between the wealthy and the poor。
Hong Kong's always had one of the more higher of those around the world that has actually only。
Increased in the last number of years over Kovat the wealthy got wealthier and the poor got poorer。
One of the great challenges in our city is affordable housing。
affordable housing for the poor the people that really need it and out of some of the affordable housing that we do have the。
Quality of that affordable housing is also a challenge for us。
add on to that some of the thoughts around。
kind of the。
Population decline that's happened in Hong Kong over the last little while。
The government's very aware and is working really hard to try to attract foreign investment back into the city。
Track foreign talent also back into our city。
Talk about some of the frustrations that are there for young people under the age of 30。
a lot of them are worried about their。
Ability for freedom and their belief of freedom of speech and freedom of expression。
Many of our young people under the age of 30 are asking is the one country two systems really gonna work。
Is that going to change more dramatically in the near future a number of them are also wrestling?。
With where their future is going in the report by save the children。
Here's some quotes that were found in that report. Let me read this to you。
There is no future anymore in Hong Kong。
I have too much pressure to provide for my family. I have no dreams for life。
These are representative of what is happening to this generation in our city。
And so when we actually take a look at some of the challenges that we have in Hong Kong。
Maybe the question is do you still really want to live here?。
Talk about somebody taking away my my main preaching point。
I。
Mean I mean do you do you really still want to live here and if it's true if it's true that the church。
through the church the manifold wisdom of。
reconciliation。
restoration love power forgiveness。
Grace is seen through the church if that's true, then surely this is the most important time to be in Hong Kong。
Surely this is the time where we would want to double down and invest in our city at this time。
Surely this is the time where we realize as the church。
It is no more important moment in history than right now for us to release our voice。
For us not to stand next to the people who are desperately searching for the key to open the lock。
But actually to say let me tell you about the manifold wisdom of God because through the church that will be seen。
It's not beautiful that God would want to release through this group of people us。
And all of our weaknesses and all of our flaws that manifold wisdom of God think about this the church。
matters。
The church matters。
Because together through the grace of Christ we are God's vessels in all of our flaws and weaknesses。
To reveal the manifestation of the wisdom power and love of God to the world。
That's why we do what we do。
That's why you gather here every week if you come here。
That's why you join us online from wherever it is that you're joining us right now. We do it。
Yes, so that we can grow in Christ. Of course. Yes so that we can heal and be renewed. Absolutely。
Yes, so that we can become more like the the wholeness of the wholeness of Jesus, of course。
But here's the core reason why you gather it is so that you through you。
Through me through our weaknesses and our brokenness。
We would still be a manifestation of the reconciling and restoring love of Christ to the world。
Isn't that beautiful? That's what church is about。
Now here's the interesting thing。
This is not the first time that God has had a passion for a city。
In fact scripture is filled with a picture of God's passion for cities。
And cities are always on God's heart. And if that's true, then we have to say that God so loves Hong Kong。
And perhaps if we can take a look at God's heart for a city in scripture。
We might be able to connect that to God's heart for our city as well。
And in that might get a better understanding of why we do what we do. I。
Want to take you actually to one example of this from the prophetic book of Zechariah。
Zechariah is important for us to go to you because of some of the connections that I think are to the season that Hong Kong。
Is in at the moment。
Zechariah is prophesying to a group of people that have returned from exile。
You probably know the story in the Old Testament。
Jerusalem is there. It's a thriving city, but it's broken and in the sin of idolatry。
God brings up Babylon and Babylon comes and actually breaks down the walls of Jerusalem。
actually kills many of the people in Jerusalem and takes a remnant of them into captivity in Babylon and。
For 70 years in captivity。
God's people。
suffer in Babylon and。
After the end of that 70 years God in his grace raises up Persia and Persia comes and actually releases。
all of the Jewish people back to Jerusalem and。
Zechariah is writing 20 years after they've returned to Jerusalem。
So they've come out of this really traumatic time and this traumatic season。
They've come back into the city of Jerusalem and for 20 years later Zechariah now begins to speak and here's what's happened。
They are still finding themselves holding on to the trauma of their past。
And I think if we're honest with ourselves Hong Kong and we are still processing a lot of the trauma。
That we've experienced over the last four or five years。
And we're still holding on to so much of that. And like I said earlier。
there are some significant issues that we should be concerned about and。
Here is a group of people who have returned to Jerusalem being set up in God's city and 20 years later。
God has to raise up Zechariah to bring a word of hope and a word of life。
To a bunch of people who needed a new vision。
They needed to understand what is God's heart for Jerusalem? I think we need to understand. What is God's heart for Hong Kong?。
And so I want to show you some of the things that Zechariah said, is this helping anyone? Is this alright?。
Good all right。
Zechariah chapter 8。
Starting in verse 18. Let me read this to you again. The word of the Lord Almighty came to me。
This is what the Lord Almighty says the fast of the fourth fifth seventh and tenth months will become joyful and glad。
occasions and happy festivals for Judah。
therefore love truth and peace。
This is what the Lord Almighty says many peoples and the inhabitants of many cities will yet come。
and the inhabitants of one city will go to another and say let us go at once to。
Entreat the Lord and seek the Lord Almighty for I myself am going and many peoples and powerful nations will come to。
Jerusalem to seek the Lord Almighty and to entreat him。
This is what the Lord Almighty says in those days ten men from all languages and nations。
Will take firm hold of one Jew by the hem of his robe and say let us go with you。
Because we have heard that God is with you. This is a glorious vision。
That God is unwrapping through Zechariah to a bunch of people in Jerusalem who are still wondering. What is the hope of this place?。
They're still asking the big question. Do we still really want to live here?。
And God through Zacharias says oh, yes you do and let me tell you why。
The first thing he says is okay. First of all, your fasts are about to change now。
Let me explain why this is important when Israel was in captivity in Babylon for 70 years。
It was a very important time for them to lament there had been so much that they had done。
before。
Babylon had come into Jerusalem and it was so much that they were still wrestling with and trying to process and。
During those 70 years in captivity。
they actually wrote so many of the lament Psalms that we have in the book of Psalms and those it's a chance for。
Actually, actually the Jewish people to to basically process their trauma together in a place of lament and the fast。
What happened was that the Jewish leadership at the time decided we're gonna fast every single month and in those fasts。
It's gonna be a place for us like to tear our garments to put on sackcloth。
to realize that the world is not how it's how it should be to understand that we're under trauma and grief and to be able。
To try to process some of that in a place of lament and what had happened was although God had now released them back。
Into Jerusalem. They were still acting in those ways of captivity back in the freedom of Jerusalem。
And so God shows up and he does something really quite powerful。
He says I'm gonna take those fasts that you've instituted and here's what I'm gonna do。
I'm gonna make them joyful events and happy festivals。
In other words what you were doing once to lament and process trauma now。
I'm gonna flip the script around and those are gonna be times of hope for you times of joy for you times of happiness。
For you and you're gonna be able to move forward in a new way a new way of thinking a new way of believing。
Before yes, you needed to process your trauma, but now you're back in my city and I've got hope for that city。
I've got a future for that city. I'm about to tell you all the things I'm about to do。
but in order for you to capture that you need to start shifting from a place of lament and trauma and grief towards a place of。
Hope and life and and courage again。
Notice that he doesn't say that your problems are gonna go away。
He doesn't remove the fasts because the issues are still gonna be there。
I'd be silly to stand in front of you today and tell you just because the church gets its voice。
It means all the issues in Hong Kong is gonna go away。
The issues will probably still remain those facts that I've talked about。
Those are big issues and complex issues that a lot of hard work will need to go in to see a shift and a change。
But here's what I am saying。
The time is coming the time is now to shift our approach to all that issue from oh。
I'm not sure if I want to be here anymore - oh my gosh。
I'm so glad I'm planted here because I can see what God is doing in this。
I can see that there could be a better future that there could be a place of hope that we could move forward and see。
the manifold wisdom of God's reconciliation and restoration。
Come for the university students and the young people and everybody in this city who doesn't have a vision. We have a vision。
And so we're gonna take the thing that we used to lament about and now we're gonna look at it and we're gonna say。
All right, there are issues but we're gonna approach those issues from a place of joy of hope。
That isn't it a privilege that we get to walk into broken people and show them something of the light of Jesus. I。
Think we need this in our city。
And I think God is signaling a shift in our city a shift in the spirit of our city。
And if the church doesn't do it who else is gonna do it?。
I mean think about this if it is through the church that the manifold wisdom of God is revealed in the world。
Then if the church doesn't rise up with a fresh vision of joy in this。
Season, how could we ever expect the national consciousness to change?。
Come on church you with me。
Like how could we ever expect the national consciousness?。
to change if the church is not rising up with a fresh vision a fresh hope of joy and。
Courage and what God sees in this place if we can't do that。
How could we ever expect the world around us to change because it is through the church。
That the manifold wisdom of God is revealed in this world. Oh。
Man, that should pump our veins more than anything else。
Bible is very clear. The Bible says that it is the joy of the Lord. That is our strength。
the joy of the Lord。
Not our smarts not our finances。
not our。
Great things that we do is the joy of the Lord. That is our strength。
Which means that when we're in a season where that joy has been taken from us and again。
perhaps there's some right reasons because we needed to lament and we needed to face and we needed to grieve and at the vine over the。
Last five years we've created space many times for us to be able to do that。
But we have to realize that when that happens in a city or in a church community the ultimate。
Reality will be that that will result in weakness。
when joy is removed people and cities and societies governments and churches get weak and。
It's really important that we understand this Jesus did not go to the cross for a weak church。
He went to the cross so that we would trade our sorrow for joy。
So that the joy of the Lord would be our strength and notice that when the Bible says the joy of the Lord is your strength。
He's not just talking about Christians。
That's the formula for every human being。
That when every human person comes into the recognition of the joy of the Lord。
They will find renewed strength and vigor and they won't be saying I have no vision for my future。
They were saying I am so glad that I am Hong Kong Chinese that I am in Hong Kong planted in this place。
Oh, I struggled. Oh, I wrestled but guess what the joy of the Lord is in me。
And because the joy of the Lord is in me, I want to open my mouth and share the hope share the courage share the future。
I want to speak now because I had this。
Overflowing sense of the peace and the love of Christ in me。
the joy of the Lord is。
my strength I。
Wonder whether。
we as a church need to regain the practice of the joy in the sacred and。
I thought it was really powerful earlier because we didn't orchestrate this when at the end of worship。
We just shouted for like I don't know how long it was 30 seconds or so. Some of you were like, okay。
I'm kind of done shouting now。
Others of us were just wrapped up in this incredible praise of God. Amen. I。
Think we need to restore joy in the sacred again, and I think the joy of the Lord will be our strength. Amen。
and in that joy。
That joy is not just so that we would feel good about ourselves。
That joy is the fuel for the manifold wisdom of God in the world。
Now here's the next thing he does。
He then says this this is what the Lord Almighty says。
Many people's from the inhabitants of many other cities will yet come and the inhabitants of one city will go to another and say let。
Us at once go to entreat the Lord and seek the Lord Almighty. I myself am going I love this。
This is the opposite to what we've seen over the last number of years here in Hong Kong。
God's like here's my vision for my city if people could just understand this。
I'm gonna rise up the church to be the manifold wisdom of God in society。
So that people actually see that society and go I want to be a part of that。
That society is better than my society that city is better than my city。
There's something that's going on. Those people are more joyful when they're under persecution。
Those people seem to be more joyful, even though things are hard。
Wouldn't it be amazing if people didn't say to us? Hey, do you really still want to live in Hong Kong?。
But actually said to us we're moving to Hong Kong。
Come on church。
Wouldn't that be awesome?。
Wouldn't it be so cool if people were so aware that the church is on fire in Hong Kong and that there's something different in。
The spirit of our city that people would want to come here。
Would want to actually move themselves here anytime I meet a new family at the vine who have just moved to Hong Kong。
Here's the first thought that goes through my mind every single time。
I think isn't Hong Kong so privileged that God would send this family to us。
Because there's something in this family that our city obviously needs。
Because we are the manifold wisdom of God in the world. And if this family's just moved to Hong Kong. Oh。
Watch out Hong Kong。
Because there's something that's about to happen. Amen。
Notice what he says next this is what the Lord Almighty says in those ten days in those days ten people from all languages and。
Nations will take firm hold of one Jew by the hem of his robe and say let us go with you。
Because we have heard that God is with you. I love this picture。
Zachariah sees this picture of a Jewish person standing in the city of Jerusalem。
And in those days they had these beautiful flowing robes and at the end of the rows with the tassels that mark them as a Jewish。
believer and。
Here's the vision that God has for Jerusalem and he speaks with Zachariah over his people。
He says here's what's gonna happen in the future。
Ten foreigners are gonna come around you and they're gonna reach out and grab a hold of the hem of your garment。
They're literally gonna grab one of the tassels that are hanging off your garment because they're gonna say this。
I know that God is with you. I don't have all the answers. I don't have it all figured out。
I don't even know if I fully believe in this God, but I can see it in you。
I can see it in the people that gather with you and I want to have something to do with that because I'm desperately in。
Need I can't find the code, but I will grab a hold of the one who has it。
When you grabbed a hem of the robe in those days it meant three things it meant protection。
refuge and security I。
Wonder if protection refuge and security could be。
Vital things for the generation of Hong Kong in this time。
The ones who are asking what is our future?。
Well, what all these changes really mean?。
The ones who are wondering about the economy and whether now might be the time to go。
Could you imagine if the church rised up in this time with a renewed?。
Hope and a renewed vision and a sense of joy that is their strength and was confident in saying that God is。
Here he has not moved to Singapore. He is right here and。
we know it and we see it and we feel it and it's good and。
People around us go. I want to hold on to something like that。
I want to grab a hold of something like that. Here's what you need to understand。
This is really important. The church is the hem of the robe of Jesus in a city。
church。
Church is the hem of his robe in a city. It's the thing that people should look to for refuge。
for protection。
for security inside their soul。
Where they feel like they've been so torn aside within themselves。
The church should be the place where they go. That's a place of refuge for me. That's a place where I can rebuild my life。
That's a place where I can find renewed hope. That's the place where when I meet those people they speak confidently boldly。
They love the city. They love what's happening in Hong Kong there. They're involved their need deep in it. They're not leaving。
They're here to stay. I want to be a part of that。
That's the hem of the robe and here's the thing you are the church。
This is why here at the vine we have a river model vision。
Our river model vision is not about trying to get us all in a building all the time and just making this about church。
The river model is about you being the church in your sphere of influence。
Because follow the analogy that Zechariah is bringing. It's no point being the hem of the robe if nobody can see the robe。
There's no point in that if people can't see that robe and grab a hold of it。
The picture he's bringing is actually a picture of the marketplace in。
Jerusalem and the Jewish people walking through the marketplace and those on the outside。
Looking at that and going I see that and I want to be a part of that。
and。
so now more than ever the river model is part of who we are at the vine because if God is saying it is through。
the church of the manifold wisdom of God might be seen in the world the reality is people are not。
Busting the door down to come in and find out what's going on in here。
But what they might do is see you in your workplace。
See you in your sphere of influence。
See you in the place that God has planted you and see you act different you speak different。
You have hope where no one else does you have courage when everyone's afraid you see a vision for Hong Kong。
When nobody else seems to and they see that in their workplace and they go that's different and I want to know more about that. I。
Want to grab a hold of the hem of that robe because that means something。
Let me tell you about some of the robes that are flowing here at the vine in our city。
I can tell you about a doctor a。
Doctor from within our community who's offering surgery pro bono to people who can't afford it。
I can tell you about a teacher a。
Teacher who's running afternoon classes out of their own for free out of their own time because they want to compete。
Against the the tutor schools that charge far too much money。
And they want to offer quality education free as a way of standing against some of the profiteering that's happening in that sector. I。
Could tell you about the banker who is。
Incredibly brave and trying to stand up against some unethical practices in their business even knowing it might cost。
Them their job and there are many others。
You are the hem of the robe of Christ in your workplace in your school and your family and wherever it is that you have。
a sphere of influence。
Be present。
Be present in that place because that's where people will go. I want some of that and。
Then they get to experience something like this and and find out what church gatherings are about on Sundays. Yeah, that's all good。
That's all important. We continue to do this. We love this, but they're not gonna knock the door down。
But they are gonna see you。
Being someone of joy whilst everyone else is still lamenting。
We as a church need to stop saying things like man, Hong Kong is just fill in the blank。
how amazing would it be if the church actually could change the whole conversation of the city and。
Rather than joining in to the conversation of despair actually bring a fresh vision of hope。
That's what church is about。
That's us and if that's the case。
If that's what God wants to do in the city of Hong Kong then how do we as a church become that let me let me。
Read this to you。
Just that big long quote thing that's there。
If God's vision for Hong Kong is to turn lament into joy and bring back to this city。
Hope for a good future。
Then this is his vision for the vine to be a church present in every sphere of society。
Filled with people who know God and want to make him known who are visible hopeful。
joyful courageous and loving。
That's what I'm about. That's what our leadership here at the vine is about. That's what the vine is actually。
ultimately going to always be about。
So I stand before you today and I make no excuses to ask you to give towards that vision。
Because what I'm really doing is asking you to give an investment into the church that you're planted in on behalf of the city。
That you're living in。
I'm asking you to give to this glorious bigger vision that I think sits there。
That's through the church. The manifold wisdom of God is made known in the world。
I'm asking you to support us because church actually matters。
It matters more than just doing the things that we do. It actually matters。
Significantly spiritually in the culture that it's planted in。
Let me just briefly tell you a little bit about that. I want to show you our finances。
This is really important just for you to know transparently where we are with our finances。
Of the white box is the white line is income. The grayer line is our expenses。
This is the last 10 months。
What you'll notice is that one two, three, four, five six seven eight of the last ten months。
We have been under in terms of our income over expenses in some of the worst months。
We've been over a million dollars under where we need to be. The average deficit is about。
$2,000 a month over the last 10 months。
We've had a full deficit of two million dollars in the last 10 months。
And I'm sharing that with you just because we are a family together。
And that's the current state of our finances and I want you to know that that's got nothing to do a vision Sunday。
this is just what happens every month and。
Every month we're not quite making it where we need to be。
But today I stand before you because I'm actually calling you to give beyond your tithes and your offerings。
To actually stand on this bigger and this larger vision that we have and so at the vine。
We're investing in multiple ways to try to address the joy that we want to see come back to our city Oasis。
Which is our psychotherapy center here。
We're continuing to invest in that so there's good mental health。
That's happening through the vine into the city。
The majority of clients now at Oasis are actually outside of the vine community them within which we think is a wonderful thing。
We're investing in our restoration ministry because we recognize that there's so much inner healing that's needed in our city at this time。
And we're taking materials for one of the global。
schools of restoration teaching and we're actually we've paid for and we're currently doing a。
Translation into Chinese of all of that material so that we can have something that could really help and impact those within our city。
Our K4C and flight ministries, which is our generation ministries。
We're trying to double down there as well so that we're really trying to impact and influence the next generation of people。
Here in Hong Kong there are many ways our asylum seekers refugees through branches of hope those caught in trafficking。
Multiple things that we're doing to say that we're here to stay and that we love this city。
God has a heart for this city and we are the manifestation of his love through the church。
and so。
When we see that together when we hold that together。
We actually become the church that he truly is calling us to be my heart for you。
Is that you would feel invigorated by that vision?。
So you would feel cool to be a voice of hope in the city that God has planted you in。
He loves Hong Kong so much that he called you here. It's time to rise。
Amen。
All right. Can we stand together? I'd love to pray for you。
Father I'm just so grateful。
I'm so grateful for each person here in this room and。
Lord as we about to move into the most important part of this service。
And whether that's for people in this room watching online in our overflow。
The most important thing we do now is we stand together as a community。
sacrificially on behalf of this big vision that you have for your church。
Lord we are here because we love Hong Kong。
We have a vision in our hearts for this city and we believe that you are the answer to the locks。
That people are desperately trying to open。
we believe that you are the hope to a city and。
So Lord, we believe that you are at work here。
So Lord today we give on behalf of that vision。
We give on behalf of the fact that we believe the vine matters。
that church in this city。
matters and。
As we do that together。
Lord we do it in a place of worship a。
place of openness and a place of joy。
Lord, I thank you that you're turning our sorrow into joy. I。
thank you that you are repairing the broken walls and。
You are using the church to be a place of refuge and hope。
And Lord, I pray that each person here would feel that they are the hem of the robe of Jesus。
Wherever it is that you have planted them and I pray that today they would leave here inspired。
To live out that vision more and more in Jesus name we say amen. Let me hand back over to Ellison。
He's gonna lead us in this time。
