No one likes waiting. I was in the MTR last week at Tsim Sha Tsui. I ran down the。
escalator to get my train to Central. I couldn't believe my eyes when I saw the。
platform sign. The train will arrive in four minutes.。
Aiyah! Four minutes! But what about the 400 silent years? The time between the last。
writings of the Old Testament and the appearance of Christ is known as the。
Intertestamental Period or Between the Testaments. It lasted from the Prophet。
Malachi about 400 BC to the ministry of John the Baptist whose birth we look。
forward today as we kick off our Advent series, Surprising Joy. Because there was。
no prophetic word from God during the period from Malachi to John, some refer。
to it as the 400 silent years. To set the scene I want to read a couple of verses。
from Luke chapter 1. Verse 13 "But the angel said to him, 'Do not be afraid。
Zechariah, your prayer has been heard. Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son。
and you are to call him John.'" Good name that one. Verse 63 "Zechariah asked for a。
writing tablet." No iPads in those days. "And to everyone's astonishment he wrote。
this, 'His name is John.'" His name is John. Now the story of Zechariah and。
Elizabeth is quite personal to me. My father was 51 years of old when I was。
born and I was actually his firstborn. My mom had been widowed. Could you imagine。
the excitement of having your first child at that age? My father's name was。
John Henry Snelgrove to be precise. But I was born on the 23rd of。
April which in the UK is known as St. George's Day, our patron saint. So my mom。
decided to call me George. But dad had other ideas and promptly went out to。
register me I guess after a celebration drink or three. You guessed it he said。
"His name is John." John Henry Snelgrove Jr. made his entry into the world. And by。
the way no calling me George after the service. Anyway let's get back to the。
sermon. I think sometimes in church in our sermons we are guilty of what I。
call verse picking. Reading only verses that suit our sermon story. But today in。
our Advent series and Chapman has already told us about the first coming and the。
second coming of Jesus we ask ourselves three questions. The first one's this。
what does Advent mean? And the answer is coming. Who is coming? Jesus. What are we。
to do? Get ready. So as part of getting ready I'm gonna read the whole passage。
21 verses in one go. I'm reading from Luke chapter 1 starting from verse 5.。
In the time of Herod king of Judea there was a priest named Zechariah who belonged to。
the priestly division of Abijah. His wife Elizabeth was also a descendant of Aaron.。
Both of them were righteous in the sight of God observing all the Lord's commands。
and decrees blamelessly. But they were childless because Elizabeth was not able。
to conceive and they were both very old. Once when Zechariah's division was on。
duty and he was serving as a priest before God he was chosen by lot。
according to the custom of the priesthood to go into the temple and to。
burn the incense. When the time for the burning of incense come all the assembled。
worshippers were praying outside. Then I love that word an angel of the Lord。
appeared to him standing at the right side of the altar of incense. When。
Zechariah saw him he was startled and was gripped with fear. But the angel said。
to him do not be afraid Zechariah your prayer has been heard. Your wife。
Elizabeth will bear you a son and you are to call him George you are to call。
him John. He will be a joy and a delight to you and many will rejoice because of。
his birth. For he will be great in the sight of the Lord. He is never to take。
wine or any other fermented drink and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even。
before he is born. He will bring back many of the people of Israel to the Lord。
their God and he will go on before the Lord in the spirit and power of Elijah。
to turn the hearts of the parents to their children and the disobedient to。
the wisdom of the righteous and to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.。
Zechariah asked the angel how can this be? I'm an old man and my wife well。
well she's well along in years. The angel said to him I am Gabriel I stand in the。
presence of God and I have been sent to speak to you and tell you this good news。
and now you will be silent and not able to speak until the day this happens。
because you do not believe my words which will come true at their appointed。
time. Meanwhile the people were waiting for Zechariah and wondering why he。
stayed so long in the temple. When he came out he could not speak to them. They。
realized he had seen a vision in the temple for he kept making signs but。
remained unable to speak. When his time of service was completed he went home.。
After this his wife Elizabeth became pregnant and for five months remained in。
seclusion. The Lord has done this for me she said. In these days he has shown。
his favor and taken away my disgrace amongst the people. So quite a long。
passage and there are three key themes in this passage. Firstly the first theme。
is Zechariah and Elizabeth's long years of barrenness. We can assume that。
Elizabeth and Zechariah are well past childbearing age we're not told their。
exact age or John's birth would not have been considered a miracle. We are told in。
verse 7 but they were childless because Elizabeth was not able to conceive and。
they were both very old. Anecdotally they would probably be in their 60s and if。
they were in Hong Kong they would qualify for a Joy U card and pay two。
dollars for travel. The second theme the key theme is the silence of God after。
centuries of prophetic absence. I've already described it the 400 silent。
years and thirdly the announcement of John's birth breaks the silence bringing。
unexpected joy not only for Elizabeth and Zechariah but also for Israel. This。
leads me to ask ourselves have you have you ever experienced a significant。
desert season in your life? Let me repeat it. Have you ever experienced a。
significant desert season in your life? I've chatted to a few people recently。
who have described to me a long season of doubt, confusion, spiritual dryness or。
a long season of waiting for something that they long for in their life. I mean。
using my MTR analogy most of us don't even like the experience of short waits.。
I mean have you ever been to McDonald's right you go into McDonald's and you go。
what's the shortest queue right? Did you do that? Yeah.。
Yes yeah can I get in the shortest queue and you feel so good that you've。
actually got in the shortest queue until the guy in front of you orders 14 Big。
Mac meals you know. I read that collectively people spend about 67。
billion hours a year waiting in lines and even this small task can be a test。
of our patience most days. Even in the short waits the feeling of uncertainty。
about their end and the feeling of it being unfair like the guy with the 14。
Big Mac meals makes a struggle but then there are experience in life that。
involves not just minutes but months and even years of waiting. It can feel like a。
desert or like barrenness. This kind of waiting doesn't just test our patience。
it tests our hope. As pastors Sandra and I have walked with countless couples。
wrestling with childlessness. It's so hard especially those who are。
desperate to have a family of their own but barrenness can take many forms. It。
can look like a dryness in your life, a loss, loneliness, rejection. It can be。
some relationship not yet reconciled or something you've been asking God to do。
in your marriage or in your singleness. It can look like a pain or injustice。
you've endured and are asking for healing and restoration or some and I。
know this is many of us struggle like depression. You keep asking God to do。
something. God do something new but the change hasn't come yet. For many of us。
the waiting changes us and yet somehow some of us are able to keep our。
hearts alive in the barren places.。
Zechariah and Elizabeth were among a people who had experienced a lifetime。
waiting in desert circumstances. The nation of Israel was waiting for the。
promised Messiah and Zechariah and Elizabeth who were very old and barren。
were longing for a child. Their story shows us two ways of responding when God。
shows up in those dry hopeless places in our lives. One is skeptical. The other is。
full of wonder and we ask the question what is the difference between them? How。
can we keep our hearts soft and hopeful so we don't miss God when he shows up?。
I wonder for Zechariah if maybe the experience of God with him in his。
waiting wasn't personal for him anymore. I can't imagine what it was like for him。
all the years, all the years of asking for a child. The waiting, the possible。
stigma of unfaithfulness that others would have felt towards them. Oh God。
hasn't blessed you because you're not faithful enough. Even though they had。
lived incredibly faithful lives. My friends waiting without answers and。
without an end in sight can be excruciating. I think of some of our。
asylum seeker friends here at the Vine. I was speaking at the Arise Fellowship。
last week and I noticed some of them who've been with us for up to 15 years。
without their case getting settled and to be honest nowhere near their case。
being settled. In a foreign country no access to an ID card and limited。
benefits and even more limited prospects. Waiting is so difficult and often the。
waiting changes us. Maybe Zechariah had changed somehow in the waiting. He。
clearly kept going through the motions. He was faithful in his duty. He continued。
to pray for the redemption of Israel and to believe that God would send Messiah。
but maybe he'd lost hope that God would show up in his own personal desert. So。
when God shows up in it I have to say an incredibly theatrical encounter to get。
his attention and give this personal announcement that he would。
indeed have a son. At first Zechariah misses what God is doing. I don't know if you。
know but there were nearly 18,000 priests who were each on duty two。
weeks a year. They cast lots to see who would burn the incense and offer prayers.。
If you get chosen you can never do it again. It's a once-in-a-lifetime。
opportunity and some people would never get chosen. Let's read what happened as。
Zechariah gets chosen. Verse 8.。
What we're going to see is while he is there performing this holy ancient。
service for Israel an angel of the Lord shows up to tell him he's going to have a。
son.。
Then the angel of the Lord appeared to him standing at the right side of the altar of。
incense. When Zechariah saw him he was startled and gripped with fear. But the。
angel said to him, "Do not be afraid Zechariah. Your prayer has been heard.。
Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son and you are called him John." God shows up。
and Zechariah, you can see it can't you, he's wondering, "How can I be sure?" He says this,。
"How can I be sure of this? I'm an old man. My wife is getting on a bit as well. Went。
along in years." We hear his skepticism. He has everything he needs to believe。
that God could do a great thing for him. Firstly he's a priest. He holds the。
stories of God's faithfulness to others like Abraham and Sarah. He has the。
stories of his own life and this supernatural encounter. It's pretty。
statistically reliable evidence that if an angel shows up and says that God is。
going to do a thing, God's going to do that thing. But what he experiences is。
skepticism. It's almost like he stopped believing that God will do anything like。
this for him. It's not personal anymore. Maybe under all of our struggling with。
the deserts of our lives is this fear, this loss of faith. "Oh we can believe。
that God's going to come through for other people but maybe not just for us。
anymore." On the other hand, Elizabeth responds differently. She hears the news。
in a very different way. Possibly just her old mute husband scribbling a note。
or making hand gestures. She probably also notices a few changes in her body。
but there were no sonograms or ultrasound. There was no way to be。
certain. She could have thought she was crazy or maybe just ill. But somehow she。
believed not only that God could do such a thing, she believed he would do such a。
thing for her. Can you see that? It's one thing to believe that God could do it.。
Another thing that God will do it for me. And she said this, verse 25. I'll put it on。
the screen. "The Lord has done this for me." It's personal to her. It's not just about。
the redemption of Israel but it is also about God showing up in a very personal。
way for her and Zechariah. It has a feeling of intimate worship as we read。
how she stays in seclusion for five months and later when Mary visits her a。
song of worship pours out of her heart.。
But it leads us to the question, what about us? What about us? The story of。
Elizabeth and Zechariah makes me wonder how can we, how can we keep our hearts。
soft and hopeful when we encounter deserts in our life? What are a few ways。
we can keep our life with God personal? I want to suggest a couple of things.。
Number one in this Thanksgiving week, remember and be thankful. It helps to。
remember ways he has shown up for us before and for those around us. Being。
thankful is a way of acknowledging his active work around us and reminds our。
hearts that he is not far away. Passively watching our lives involved. He is close and。
he's acting on behalf of those he loves. To be honest if I had unlimited time。
today I would go around the congregation and ask you all to say one thing that。
you were thankful for. Maybe just think about that now. What are you thankful for?。
Remember it and be thankful. That's number one. Number two, nurture an intimate。
friendship with God. Everyone does this differently but any relationship。
requires time and presence, listening and learning in order to grow. Reading or。
listening to Scripture, praying, learning to listen to the voice of God, finding。
ways to glimpse how good and just how faithful God is often leads to worship。
because it's our natural response to be in awe when we are reminded of God's。
greatness and his love. And the third one is be around spiritual family. When the。
desert is hard and testing our hope, we need people in our life who will remind。
us that God still knows our name. He still sees our life and that he will。
come through to us. And if you're not in a community group or a small group, get。
in one now. Be around spiritual family. We may not get to encounter with an angel。
but Jesus is always showing up in our lives. And if Jesus is always personal。
for us, we can find flourishing even in the desert. Let me finish with an。
illustration. There are parts of the Atacama Desert in Chile where no rain。
has ever been recorded. Scientists believe that portions of the region have。
been in extreme desert state for 40 million years, longer than any other。
place on earth. And yet more than 1 million people live in the Atacama。
currently. Farmers have found way to extract enough water from underground。
water supplies and snow melt streams to grow crops and raise llamas and alpacas.。
In 2015, a portion of the desert received a historic rainfall just under one inch。
of rain in one day. It may not seem very much, particularly those of us who come。
from England, but it was the equivalent of 14 years of rainfall for this region。
all in one day. And this desert that had already found a way to thrive and。
sustain more than 1 million people was now also covered in a beautiful layer of。
pink and purple bloom after the rain. Let's look at the picture.。
My friends, this is a picture of your life. Yeah, take it. Share it. Post and tag.。
Go on. This is in the driest place on the whole earth. What a picture. My friends,。
the message of this Advent is that Jesus has come to take away the barrenness of。
the world. He can make us flourish and bring beauty even in the deserted places。
of our lives. If you are in a season of waiting, how is the waiting changing you?。
Maybe today, yes today, Jesus wants to renew your hope that he is showing up in。
the barren places of your life. As I ask the band to come up, I'm going to ask you。
just to close your eyes for a moment.。
We're going to pray now as a church for anyone here who is waiting. I suspect it's。
many of us. Maybe you're like Zechariah and Elizabeth. You're a couple waiting for a。
baby, waiting to get pregnant. It hasn't happened. Maybe you're waiting for that。
relationship. When is God going to bring that person into my life that will allow。
me to walk through life with? Maybe you're waiting for a job or a job。
opportunity. Maybe you're waiting for a time just to get out of the depression。
you're in. You've got that sort of mood around you and it's around you。
the whole time. How long is this going to go on for Lord? When am I going to see。
joy again? Whatever it is, if you're waiting today, we're going to pray for you.。
So keep your eyes closed for a moment. If you're waiting for something, whatever it。
is, just put your hands up and we're going to pray for you. If you're waiting for。
something.。
Alright, now just open your eyes everyone and keep your hands up. Can the people。
around these people just go and lay hands on them? It's not too late. People who have。
got their hands up, can you just go around? This is not me praying for。
everybody. This is not the way we do church. The church prays for the church.。
Find a person with their hands up. There are people all over the place. Please。
look and if you haven't got your hands up, go and pray for someone.。
Come on guys, I need you to be part of this.。
If you're waiting, I'm not going to ask you what you're waiting for. It'll be different。
for each one of us. There's a lady at the back waiting. Some people at the back。
waiting. Can people go and pray for them?。
Come on, this is part of us growing as a church, growing as a family. When we see。
people in our family struggling with something, to go and reach out to them.。
Just reach out your hands to them. You don't have to pray the most wonderful。
prayer, but just lay your hands. Just say, "I care. You're my family. The vine, you and。
long." We're building a family here. If you're waiting, we're waiting with you.。
We believe that God is going to come through.。
Just continue to pray.。
I'm going to pray a prayer.。
Thank you Lord. Thank you Lord. Let's just take a couple minutes on this. This is。
important. Don't miss anybody out. Thank you Lord.。
There's a wonderful sense of the Spirit's presence with us now. Let's just not rush。
out of this. Let's not rush out down to lunch, down to Q and McDonald's, or。
everybody else. Let's take this time to ask God to come and meet us. Lord, just as。
you came and met Zechariah and Elizabeth, just as you came and met the nation of。
Israel and sent Jesus, just as you sent John the Baptist to this couple that。
were barren, Lord take the barren areas of our lives, the things we're waiting。
for, the relationships, the jobs.。
Just that approval for that thing.。
When we pray Holy Spirit, You just come right now. You're already here. Yep. But Lord,。
we ask for more of Your presence, more of Your reassurance that You are in control。
even when we are not.。
Take away the pain of waiting and replace it with the birth of a new。
season, a new opportunity, a new calling.。
I believe there are people here who are wrestling with a new calling. God is。
calling you to do something. It may be here in the church just volunteering for。
something. It may be going into some full-time ministry. And you've been。
wrestling with it. God says, "I'm here." John the Baptist is here. Israel is here.。
Receive your calling. Walk into your calling. Use this season of Advent to。
move into what God has for you. John the Baptist changed Elizabeth and Zechariah's。
life forever. Jesus Christ changed Israel forever, the promised Messiah.。
There is a promise over you.。
I want all of you now to actually visualise the place where you work.。
Right? I want you to visualise your workplace and your colleagues.。
My friends, that is your church. That is your calling. As you go into work。
tomorrow morning, you go as a representative of the Lord Jesus Christ.。
You have authority. You have power. You have a calling. And I pray for every。
workplace that is represented here today.。
I pray, Lord, for the opportunity we have. I'll be honest with you. I reached。
more people for Jesus when I was working in an insurance company than I do。
working at a church. Because I spend too much of my time with Christians now.。
Those people that you are going to see tomorrow at work, those people in your。
family, God is calling you to.。
The cast of Disney. It's a big mission field. I bless you.。
Manage to go and just be Jesus to them.。
And we pray in this Advent season that you will use us to draw people to Christ.。
Yes, we have services on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day. What an opportunity。
for you to ask people to come with you if you get there early.。
Church is not about coming here for an hour and a quarter on a Sunday morning。
to hear a sermon. You are being empowered. You are being commissioned.。
Why would God use me? God would use you. God used Zechariah and。
Elizabeth to bring about John the Baptist, who was the forerunner of Jesus.。
Tim wants to share a word.。
Thank you. Actually John was there, it was a few weeks ago, there was a prophetic。
word in a pastor's prayer meeting. And the prophetic word was that, you know a。
lot of times with Christmas we just rush through the season, we look for the next。
year. But it was the story of Canaan, where Jesus, He at the end of the wedding,。
not at the beginning of the wedding, He turned water into wine. He took something。
ordinary and He did something extraordinary, something unexpected. It。
was the good wine, the best wine. It came at the end of the year. And there was a。
sense that God wants to pour out His good wine at the end of the year. That He。
wants that the best is to come right now. And not to miss Him, not to miss。
what He wants to do. He wants to turn that water into extraordinary, delicious。
wine. And so we can miss Him, we can rush through the season. But He wants。
to work in your life. And I felt as John was sharing, I felt this word was。
actually for now. You know God wants to pour out His goodness on you now.。
Do you understand? As we prepare to sing our final song, I just want you to hold。
your hands open and offer Him your water.。
The wine's run out, but we know the best wine is yet to come.。
I just want to confirm that word that Tim's just shared with us. That God wants。
to take your dirty, smelly water. That water was actually the ones that the。
servants used to bathe their feet in. And it became the best wine.。
Holy Spirit come to us. Come to this church. Come to Yuen Long. Come to Hong Kong.。
Help us not go through the motions of Christmas. Help us not to talk about the。
decorations in Landmark and all the other things that we see. Good as they are.。
Turn our water into wine. And I've just got a vision as this is, that wine is。
being turned out and poured down the stairs of this church. And poured onto。
the streets of Yuen Long and into Hong Kong. People need to hear this.。
That's why I prayed for you earlier. The people in your office tomorrow are gonna hear this.。
You might just say something, "Hey, do you know what we did in church yesterday?。
Seemed really odd, but we took the water because we believe. We believe that the。
best wine is yet to come. That this Advent season, you are pouring out new wine。
amongst us. Fill us Lord. Fill us afresh with the new wine. And Lord, we don't want a。
little taste. We want to be bathed. Bathed in the new wine of your Holy Spirit.。
Lord, send us out from this place in the power of your Holy Spirit to live and。
work to your praise and glory.。
Let's go and be filled as we sing this song.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
