So last week we had Vision Sunday here at The Vine, so if this is your first Sunday。
with us or if you weren't able to be with us last week, we know that a lot of people。
travel and things like that.。
So welcome back.。
We did Vision Sunday last week where we released really to you as a church a sense of what。
we are kind of feeling that God is saying about us as a church community here in Hong。
Kong in this time and really a word that we believe is going to sit over us as a church。
over the rest of this year and probably into the year to come in 2026.。
And it's a word for us as a community together because if this is your home church, you're。
not here just as yourself.。
You're here a part of a community, but it is also, as I said last week, a word for you。
individually, for you personally in what is happening in your life.。
And it is this word that we're in uncharted territory, that the Lord is wanting to move。
us into uncharted waters.。
And I shared a picture last week that I had a few months ago about us as a church community。
like this, one of those early pioneer ships where they would be in safe harbour, but then。
they would set out from safe harbour out into the ocean and they would literally be sailing。
out to where there was no maps.。
And they had this early kind of unreasonable hope that they believed that if they just。
sailed beyond what they had currently mapped out, that there might be lands beyond what。
they could realise or what they thought.。
And this idea of the uncharted is exactly that, that there is no map, there is no ability。
for us to know what's ahead because we've never been there before.。
And the great encouragement that the Holy Spirit is saying to us as the Bind Church。
is I desire to take you to a place corporately and individually where you've never been before,。
where you've never experienced me like that before, where you've never seen my kingdom。
and my spirit at work like it's going to work ever before.。
And therefore there is no strategy, there's no current resource, there are no current。
gifts that are going to be appropriate for what is to come, that this is a completely。
different time, different season.。
And what God is saying is are we ready to prepare ourselves for what that is that is。
to come?。
And it's interesting because he's pulling us out of our comfort zones.。
He's put us in a place where we're going to be not with the things that normally would。
tether us and give us stability, we're going to be a little bit out of what's comfortable。
for us.。
But I want you to know that the greatest moments of growth in your life will always occur with。
Christ Jesus when you're out of your comfort zone, where you're in a place where you're。
going to have to rely on him.。
Last week I shared a few things that I felt would shape this season.。
It's going to be a season of discovery and adventure focused on the unknown but anticipated.。
This is really important, the unknown but anticipated.。
It's unknown because this is an uncharted season.。
So by its very definition, we don't know what's ahead.。
But because it's unknown doesn't mean that our posture at this time as a community should。
be passive.。
It doesn't mean that, "Oh, okay, we don't know what God's going to do, so we're just。
going to sit back and kind of just wait for it."。
In the picture I had last week of that sailing ship that's heading out into the unknown,。
the captain's there at the bow at the front leaning forward with his telescope looking。
for what's to come.。
The intentionality within his spirit to look forward with hope for what is to come.。
So it's unknown, but we need to have a posture of heart, a focus within us of anticipation。
for what's about to come.。
Does that make sense?。
The second thing we shared is that it's going to be a season of wholehearted reliance and。
trust in Jesus above everything else.。
Because we don't currently have the map and the strategy to hold us where God's taking。
us.。
And we shared last week that it is this purging season.。
That perhaps as a church community and perhaps as you as an individual, there have been some。
things that you've gotten comfortable with to rely on, that you've been trusting and。
putting your hope and your faith and your reliance on that are not Jesus.。
One of the primary reasons why God brings his church into a season of the uncharted。
is to shake off some of the things that we've begun to rely on that are not him.。
And so as we go through this year, we're going to be challenging ourselves, challenging you.。
Have we gone over reliant on something?。
Are we trusting in our own strength?。
Are we trusting in the things that we've trusted in the past?。
And maybe they were great for us in the past, but these are not the things that we should。
be trusting on now.。
No, this is a season where Jesus gets the wholehearted reliance and trust in our lives.。
The third thing we shared is that it's going to be a season where God's people, and this。
is really important, a season of intentional readiness where God's people rely and prepare。
not with a plan of action, but a purpose of their hearts.。
In other words, because this is uncharted, we don't have the map or the strategy that。
will help us to plan the action steps we need to take in order to benefit from the season.。
No, instead, it's not about an action plan, it's about the posture of my heart.。
It's about what's going on inside of me.。
It's about the values that I hold to, because when God acts, I want to be one who responds.。
And so you need to understand that in a season of uncharted, the spotlight that the Holy。
Spirit is shining is on our character over our competencies.。
I'm going to say that again.。
It's shining on our character over our competencies.。
Not that we can't have gifts, not that we can't be good at things, not that God hasn't。
blessed us with things that we're good at, of course, but in this season, the focus becomes。
more the character than the competencies.。
Because here's the thing, we don't know what competencies we're going to need for the future.。
It's uncharted.。
No one's ever been there before.。
We've not been there before.。
We've not experienced it.。
We don't know what strategies or ministries or responses we're going to need when God。
acts.。
So it's not about trying to come up with the competencies that are going to hold us。
when God moves.。
It's about the character we need today so that when God does move, when the treasure。
is discovered in the field, when we see that pearl of great price, we give everything.。
We're ready to give it all.。
We're ready to respond straight away.。
It's a little bit like the people that work in the fire service, who are trained to respond。
without fear immediately when the fire takes place.。
Could you imagine a church that was trained to respond without fear when the kingdom of。
God is at work?。
When God begins to do something in our workplace and we don't have the fear of going, "Oh my。
gosh, I'm not going to pray for this person in front of everybody because if I did that,。
I'm going to be judged."。
But instead, we're over our fear and we've got the character that says that when God's。
presence is here, I will respond and here's somebody who desperately needs prayer.。
I'm going to ask them if I can pray for them.。
Or perhaps we're at that family dinner and we're sitting next to the uncle or the aunt。
that's twice removed, who we know is really abrasive against the Christian faith and they're。
beginning to ask us how things are going in our lives and what's happening in their lives.。
And we're thinking, "Well, I better not share anything about church because it's going to。
upset them."。
And we sense that the Holy Spirit is saying, "This might be a moment where you can begin。
to testify about what God's doing in your life and you've been trained and equipped。
to respond to the kingdom without fear."。
Can you imagine a church like that?。
This is not the first time in history that God has called his church to focus on their。
character over their competencies because he's moving them into the uncharted.。
In fact, perhaps the most important moment that this has happened in church history is。
the early church in the first century.。
Those first disciples as they're wrestling with the profundity that Jesus has risen from。
the dead.。
I mean, imagine the experience they went through believing that Jesus was the Messiah and then。
seeing him killed on a cross and then walking away from that going like, "Well, maybe we。
got that wrong.。
I guess he was just a prophet."。
But then Jesus raised from the dead, shows himself to them and suddenly they realize。
he is the Messiah.。
He is the one that we've been longing for.。
He has come.。
And then Jesus says to them, "Hey, here's the great commission.。
Go into the Greco-Roman empire, sharing the faith of the gospel, teaching people to obey。
my commands and I'll be with you forever.。
And then stay here in Jerusalem and I'm going to send the Holy Spirit to empower you to。
go."。
And then suddenly the disciples are thrust into uncharted territory, uncharted waters.。
They had no idea that Jesus was going to expect them to do what he expects them to do.。
And he doesn't give them a roadmap or a strategy or a plan.。
He sends them out in the power of the Holy Spirit to experience the kingdom, to find。
the treasure, to see the pearls.。
The beautiful thing about the gospel of Acts is that it's this wonderful idea of what happens。
when God shows up when you're least expecting it.。
Throughout the whole book, you have these moments where the writer, Luke, is writing。
these things and he uses this Greek word for suddenly.。
He uses it a lot because he's trying to express the suddenness of God's kingdom.。
He's like, "Suddenly the person is there," and the disciples try to pray for him.。
"Suddenly the chains break off and they're free from prison.。
Suddenly this happens.。
Suddenly that happens."。
And it's amazing because you see time and time again, the disciples just going about。
their normal average day, not expecting anything, and suddenly the kingdom of God appears.。
And here's the question, will the disciples respond when they see a suddenly of God?。
And one of the things that you almost see all the time in the book of Acts is that when。
there's a suddenly of God, there's an immediate response from the church.。
There's an immediate respond in faith to what the kingdom and what the spirit is doing in。
that moment.。
And this teaches us something so important about uncharted seasons.。
Look, we cannot predict the suddenlies, but we can prepare for the immediatelies.。
Come on church.。
We can't predict the suddenlies.。
This is uncharted season.。
So by its very definition, we can't predict when or how or what God is going to do.。
God's not asking you to predict the suddenlies.。
That's his domain, not yours.。
You can't do that.。
What you can do though is prepare yourself for the immediatelies.。
That when God does show up, when you discover the treasure, when you see the pearl, you。
respond because you put character over competency.。
You put your values over anything else.。
And your value is to say, "God, when you act, I want to be one of the workers in the work。
field.。
I want to be one of the ones that's reaching out with the gospel of hope.。
Lord, would you choose me?。
If you act, I'm going to respond."。
Are you with me?。
So what we're going to do with you over the next six weeks, we're actually going to walk。
through the story of Acts.。
We're not going to look at it as like a book study.。
We're going to pull out actually a study on the character of the disciples, the early。
church.。
And we're going to look at what are some of the key values that they hold in them that。
enables them to be positioned for the immediatelies when God does it suddenly.。
And we're going to teach you six of these things.。
And the reason why we're focusing on this is because these are the things that we feel。
like the Holy Spirit is wanting to teach in us.。
Let me show you what the six values are going to be.。
Stepping out, the obedience to respond to the way that the Holy Spirit is, even when。
it's uncomfortable to do so.。
The openness to changing our thinking and our traditions when God challenges them.。
The willingness to be persecuted for our faith.。
Come on church.。
Yeah, this is going to be a great series.。
Do come back next week, by the way.。
It's going to be...。
The sacrifice of trusting in Jesus, even when it might cost us dearly.。
The ability to commit to hardship when we know it has redemptive purpose.。
The call to sharing our faith radically, honestly, and hopefully.。
My friends, these are the core character values that the early church held inside of them,。
which enabled them to do the things that God wanted to do through them.。
Not that they had a monopoly on what God was going to do, but when God acted, these things。
enabled them out of obedience, out of trust, out of the willingness to be persecuted, out。
of the openness to walking through hard times and hardships.。
They positioned themselves time and time again for the glory of God in the place that he。
had placed them.。
Could you imagine a church in Hong Kong that was willing to be persecuted for its faith?。
Could you imagine a church that's willing to go through hardship knowing it has redemptive。
purpose?。
Could you imagine a church full of courageous and bold people sharing their faith because。
they've been liberated from the fear of man?。
I think this is not just something that God wants the Hong Kong church to hold.。
I think it's something the global church needs at this time.。
We're going to go through this series together step by step, and we're going to bring some。
pretty challenging messages to you over the next six weeks.。
My prayer is that God would do something within us, preparing us for the immediate lease of。
his sudden unlease.。
We're going to start today by just looking at the first of these.。
It's really just the first few verses of the book of Acts itself, because in these verses。
you see Jesus do something before any of the sudden unlease occur.。
Jesus prepares his disciples for their next step, for the way in which he can liberate。
them, release some things from them so that they could be best prepared for the sudden。
unlease to come.。
Let me read this to you from Acts chapter one, starting in verse one.。
"In my former book, Theophilus, I wrote about all that Jesus began to do and teach until。
the day that he was taken up to heaven.。
About giving instructions through the Holy Spirit to the apostles that he had chosen.。
After his suffering, he showed himself to these men and women and gave many convincing。
proofs that he was alive.。
He appeared to them over a period of 40 days and spoke about the kingdom of God.。
On one occasion, while he was eating with them, he gave them this command, 'Do not leave。
Jerusalem, but wait for the gift my father promised, which you have heard me speak about.。
For John baptized with water, but in a few days' time you will be baptized with the Holy。
Spirit.'"。
I love what Luke's doing here.。
He's writing this book to his Gentile benefactor, probably a wealthy Gentile called Theophilus。
who was interested in the Christian faith.。
He's writing a story about what happens in the early church to this person.。
He starts by capturing this moment where Jesus is in his resurrection and he's beginning。
to shape and mold the disciples for all that's next.。
I wonder if you've ever put yourself in the shoes of the disciples at the start of the。
book of Acts because here's these disciples and they've just encountered Jesus' death。
and resurrection.。
They've had to wrestle deeply with the reality of that, but now he's risen.。
They've seen him.。
He's appeared to them over 600 times, over a lot of times, and he's beginning to teach。
them about the new things.。
There's the great commission and then he says, "Stay in Jerusalem because I'm going to send。
you the spirit, which is going to be the thing that will power you for what's ahead."。
He's speaking about this, but the disciples are now wrestling with the reality that Jesus。
actually is the Messiah.。
I want you to follow this because this is really important for the beginning of Acts.。
The disciples know that now Jesus is absolutely the Messiah.。
In their mind, they're thinking that Jesus is going to do some very specific things next。
because they're thinking that they're in a situation where Jesus is now going to act。
how they had always anticipated he was going to act.。
They're posturing themselves for that, but then Jesus says, "Hey, I'm leaving."。
You can imagine the disciples going, "But you've only just come back.。
You've only just returned.。
What do you mean you're going to leave again?"。
They're thinking, "No, no, no.。
That can't work.。
That can't be."。
It's funny, right?。
The disciples have always struggled with the reality of trying to tell Jesus what to do.。
Have you noticed that?。
It's almost like the disciples look at Jesus and go, "God loves you, but we have a plan。
for you."。
Because remember right back before when Jesus was saying, "I'm going to have to die on the。
cross," there's Peter going, "No, no, no, no, no, no.。
That's not part of our plan.。
No, no, you don't need to die.。
It's cool, dude.。
You'll be fine."。
And he's like, "Get behind me, Satan."。
Remember that moment?。
Well, here's another moment like that because Jesus is saying, "Hey, I'm going to go, but。
I need to go because I'm going to send the Holy Spirit to you."。
And they're saying, "We don't want to downgrade Jesus.。
We want you here.。
You've resurrected.。
You're the Messiah.。
We want you here.。
And not only do we want you here, but there's still work for you to do, Jesus.。
You've still got some ideas for the things that you should be doing in your resurrection."。
In fact, it actually says here, notice this, follow on in verse six, it says, "So when。
they met together, they actually asked him this, 'Lord, are you at this time going to。
restore the kingdom of Israel?'"。
In other words, the disciples are like, "We have an idea, Lord, of what you're supposed。
to now be doing.。
And we know this because our rabbis have been teaching this in the synagogue and our prophets。
of old, prophets like Jeremiah and Isaiah and Amos and Daniel, they've been saying that。
a day will come when the Messiah will be here.。
And it will be like a day of Yahweh.。
The Son of Man will come down and be with us and sin will be eradicated and Israel will。
be restored."。
That's the word they use here.。
Are you going to restore?。
Are you going to bring everything back into the hands of Israel?。
They're expecting Jesus now to do that.。
And this is their idea of what they want Jesus.。
This is like, they're literally coming up to Jesus and going, "Yeah, that's nice about。
the Spirit, but Jesus, you're forgetting something.。
We've got a plan here.。
And we've been talking about this plan for a long time.。
And this plan, I just want you to show, we've actually done a really nice, cute map of this。
plan, Jesus.。
Let me just show you this."。
Right?。
The very first thing you're now going to do is get rid of the Romans.。
Yeah, you know, the nasty Romans.。
You're going to get rid of them.。
After that, you're then supposed to get rid of sin.。
If you want to get rid of sin first before the Romans, that's fine, but we'd rather you。
punish the Romans first.。
So that's why the Romans are there first.。
Do you see this, Jesus?。
Don't worry, we've summarized it all in a bullet point form here, easy for you to follow.。
Here it is, Jesus.。
Now we laugh, but here's what I want to say to us.。
I think this is the first thing that Jesus wants to release from us as his church.。
I think so many of us, myself included, that's really how I am in relationship with Jesus。
in prayer.。
Come on, church.。
Jesus, I love you, but I have a plan for you.。
My plan for you is this, because I have some important things that I'm trying to do in。
life, and I'm trying to achieve some things, and I've got some ideas, Lord.。
In fact, if you have a moment, Jesus, I'd like to just take you into my map and just。
show you a little bit of what I had in plan.。
Right here is when you're supposed to give me my spouse.。
You haven't done that one yet, but I'm just highlighting it for you in case you forgot.。
But that's cool.。
After that, you can see that promotion I've been praying for.。
I know that's coming, right?。
And I know you want to do that.。
Are you with me?。
Isn't it interesting that we as Christians, we have this plan, we have this idea, we have。
a map for what we want Jesus to do, and it's like we're in this moment where we want him。
in our prayer lives to basically enact what we're doing.。
Let me just say, not the whole of your plan that you have is bad, but it's your plan.。
It's not his.。
And maybe elements of it he will do, and the elements of it are great, and elements of。
it he might want to respond to, but it's not about you having a plan of what Jesus is going。
to do in your life.。
It's about recognizing you're in an uncharted season, which means the plan has been stripped。
from you, which means he's placing you specifically in a moment where all the things that are。
on the list that you're constantly asking him to respond to, again, are not necessarily。
bad things, but he's wanting to shift your thinking and shift your spiritual life away。
from Jesus.。
Here's the things I need you now to do for me, to Jesus, what is it that you desire to。
do?。
What is on your heart, not just for me, but for the vine, and for Hong Kong, and for the。
city?。
We're in times where I don't know what's next, so Lord, I'm relying and I'm trusting on you.。
I'm letting go of what I would like, and I'm putting myself in an uncomfortable position。
to ask what you would like, and I'm willing to release anything from me that you do not。
like, even the plans that I have to prosper you, Jesus.。
That scripture, by the way, is I have plans to prosper you, says the Lord, but we Christians。
so often live in our prayer lives as we've got plans to prosper you, Jesus.。
Are you with me?。
We need to purge ourselves from that.。
Notice how Jesus responds, I think this is so beautiful.。
He says in verse seven, he said to them, "It is not for you to know the times or dates。
the Father has set by his own authority."。
He doesn't say it's not going to happen, he just wants to shift them away from something。
that is so critical here.。
He's saying, "It is not for you in a season of uncharted to have the answers to the timing。
of everything.。
It's not for you to know the when of God," he's saying.。
In fact, he's basically saying to the disciples, "I want to liberate you.。
I want to free you.。
I want to release you from the prison that is created by your desire to know when I'm。
going to do everything."。
It is not for you to have the understanding of the when.。
The when of God is such a thing that we as Christians, I think, so hold onto.。
I know that so much in our prayer life, in our pastoral work, it's like, when is God。
going to come through?。
It's an interesting thing.。
When Christians have an idea of what they think the time frame should be for God and。
God doesn't act in their time frame, they get angry at God.。
I know I've done this many times in my own life.。
You've heard me tell many stories over the years of times where I've put God in a time。
box and God doesn't do it in that time box and I get frustrated and angry at God because。
he hasn't done what I've wanted him to do when I was hoping he could do it.。
The disciples come to him and go, "Is now the time?"。
And Jesus goes, "The first thing I need to do as you move into uncharted territory is。
to release you from the worry of time."。
Some of you in this room, you are so tied up in the frustration of the perceived delay。
in the delivery of God's activity in your life or the obsession you have for the need。
of the foreknowledge of it that you are totally unprepared to react and respond to it when。
it actually arrives.。
Church, man, I need you to read that and pause on that for a second.。
Some of us are so wound up by knowing the when, by holding on to the time frame that。
we have and the first thing God wants to do is liberate you from the desire that you have。
to know it all.。
This was the desire that Adam and Eve had when they took the fruit in Genesis 3.。
What Satan said to them through the form of the snake was, "If you take this, you will。
be like God.。
You will know it all."。
It's the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.。
And here's the disciples again saying, "We need to know what it is you're going to do."。
And Jesus says, "It's not for you to know the time.。
I want to liberate you from the concerns that you have for time."。
Because here's the thing, the reason why we are so concerned with time is because we want。
to control.。
We want to find some stability, particularly when we're out of our comfort zones.。
We want to find something that we can ridge ourselves into and if we could just know the。
timing that God has for certain things that can happen in our lives, that would, we think,。
free us to relax.。
And what God is saying is that your obsession with time, when that is not in your hands。
and not something you can control, that's you trying to be God.。
You're not God, you're human.。
I'm going to release your desire for the knowledge of the time of everything and you will find。
yourself at greater peace.。
See the path for peace in times that are uncharted is not the knowledge of the timing of everything。
but the release of the need for control and certainty in all that's going to happen.。
And we cannot start this time.。
We cannot start as a church in this season of uncharted until we've recognized that we。
need to release control.。
Release the control and the certainty that God is going to act and respond and instead。
posture our hearts in the place of character and values to be able to respond when he acts.。
Are you with me?。
Some of you here, this is a really, I'm going to pause on this one more time.。
Some of you here, this is a really significantly fundamental thing that you need to release。
today.。
And it's scary.。
It'll put you in your, out of your comfort zone.。
It'll put you in a place where you'll feel like you're losing control.。
But sometimes the need for us to feel like we're losing control or that we're out of。
that place of comfort is the starting point of everything that Jesus now wants to do in。
us.。
Notice how this is actually here in the scripture.。
Is this helping some people?。
It says here in verse 7, "It is not for you to know the times and the dates that the Father。
has set," verse 8, "but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you and you。
will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth."。
I love this.。
He doesn't say, "Hey, I'm going to give you the answers."。
He doesn't say, "I'm going to sort out all your problems."。
He doesn't say, "I'm going to answer your timeframe, how you have it."。
We've come to him with our maps.。
He's gently rolled them back up again.。
But here's what he's saying.。
"I'm not leaving you alone."。
He said, "You're going to receive power when my Holy Spirit comes upon you.。
So I'm not leaving you to just be here on your own.。
Equally, I'm not giving you a detailed map that's going to give you all the answers straight。
away.。
What I'm going to do, though, is put my power inside of you.。
I will pour out my Holy Spirit on you and that power will be what will mark you, will。
be what defines you.。
You're not getting answers.。
You're going to get my power.。
You're not going to get the timing of everything.。
You're going to get my Spirit in your life.。
And when you have my power, then you can become."。
This is so important.。
So often, I think as a church, when we think about the power of the Holy Spirit, we think。
it's for us.。
We think it's for what happens here on a Sunday.。
We come in here longing for the worship and longing for the movement of the Holy Spirit。
amongst us.。
And we love that.。
And of course, we should.。
It's something to be celebrated.。
It is something to be expected and looked for.。
But the power that Jesus is talking here about is not a feeling in a worship service.。
What he's talking about here to the disciples is you're going to receive power.。
And then notice what he says.。
He specifically says, "And then you will become."。
In the Greek, it says, "You will become."。
In our translation, it says, "You will be."。
It's future tense.。
What he's saying is, notice the journey, what Jesus is doing.。
He's saying, "Your plan, not going to work.。
Your obsession with timing is only going to cause you stress.。
I need you to release all of that so that you're a vessel ready to receive the power。
of my Spirit."。
But that power of the Spirit is not just there to make you feel good or to give you some。
gifts or to give you some fruit.。
As much as that is good.。
Here's what the power of that Spirit will do.。
It will make you to become.。
It will transform you.。
It will form you, shape you into the person that I need you to be in the time of Uncharted.。
The reason why the Holy Spirit is poured out in seasons of Uncharted is because the Spirit。
longs to change us.。
Longs to transform us and renew us.。
The focus is on character over competency.。
So the Spirit comes to reform and to change.。
And so a season of Uncharted is a spiritual formation season.。
By its very nature, times of Uncharted are Spirit empowered.。
And because they're Spirit empowered, they're designed to change something within us.。
To release sin from us.。
To strengthen us.。
To give us the character and the values that we will need so we can respond immediately。
to the sudden needs that are around us.。
And our vision here at the Vine is growing big people.。
It's a maturity vision.。
It's a spiritual formation vision.。
And this is why God's bringing us into the Uncharted.。
It's not to freak you out.。
It's not to make you feel uncomfortable.。
It's actually to change you.。
You got to understand that the greatest times of spiritual growth and change will happen。
in your life when you have to rely 100% on Jesus and nothing else.。
The greatest times of spiritual growth and change in your life will happen when you let。
go of your need to know everything.。
The greatest spiritual change that will happen is when you actually say, "I am open to whatever。
is your heart, your agenda, your plans, your strategy, whatever it is that you want to。
do.。
I have no idea.。
But whatever it is that you want to do, I want to receive it in the name of Jesus.。
Make me into one."。
Oh, let me preach on this real quick.。
This is not my notes.。
Let me preach on this real quick.。
The prodigal son is one of my favorite stories.。
And it's because the prodigal son goes in this journey.。
At the start, he goes to his father and he says, "Give me my inheritance."。
And then he goes and he squanders it and he's in a place of incredible uncomfort because。
of his sin and his brokenness.。
And he decides in that place that it's better to be a servant in his father's household。
than to be in the muck and the mire that he found himself in.。
And as he goes to his father, his father runs towards him.。
And the first words out of the mouth of the prodigal son is this, "Lord, make me.。
Make me like one of your servants."。
There's something that happens in the life of the prodigal where he goes from, "God,。
give me," to, "God, make me."。
And that's the journey of the uncharted.。
That's the spiritual formation journey that we're in right now.。
And I want to encourage you, challenge you to be open to whatever the Holy Spirit wants。
to do.。
Because there is a make me that I need.。
And I'm sure there is for you too.。
What is it that he is making us into?。
He then says this, "That you would become my witnesses in Jerusalem and in Judea and。
Samaria and to the ends of the earth."。
He says, "You will become my witnesses."。
Notice this.。
The word witness there in the Greek is the word martyris, which is where we get martyrdom。
from.。
It's the idea of living such a way that people can see.。
It was actually a legal term and it was literally designed in the legal concepts of those days。
to be somebody can prove the verification of facts by how they've experienced and lived。
their lives.。
A witness is someone who demonstrates and declares what it is that has happened for。
them.。
So this emphasis of demonstrating and declaring, not just saying, but living.。
Remember a few weeks ago, we spoke about the idea of a new song that is on our mouths so。
that we can live it out so people can see it.。
That's a witness.。
So when Jesus says, "My spirit is going to fall on you and empower you to become a witness,"。
what he's saying is, "This is all about you in public space.。
This is all about me doing something in you so that you would be something of me out there."。
He doesn't come to the church, to the disciples at the beginning of their formation of the。
church and say, "I'm going to pour out my spirit of power upon you so that you would。
be my privately blessed individuals."。
Come on, church.。
He doesn't say, "So that you will be my privately blessed individuals and you'll have a great。
time for 90 minutes on a Sunday.。
Woo-hoo!"。
He says, "No, I'm pouring out my spirit on you because I'm moving you into uncharted。
seasons.。
Take away your strategy.。
Take away your obsession about the timing of everything.。
Receive my power because I want to shape and form in you something so much that you would。
then be a public testimony, a public witness to my power, my spirit, my life in the world.。
You're going to be a witness," he says, "in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, to the ends of。
the world.。
It's going to be about what I do within you so that the church would be public, not private,。
huddled together as much as we love doing this, but we do this on behalf of everything。
that's going to happen in your week ahead.。
This is uncharted, that we would be so filled with the spirit, that we're so changed within。
us that we become the living witnesses of God in the world."。
This is why the first value that Jesus is instilling into the disciples right at the。
start is this obedience to the work of the spirit, even if that means it's going to be。
uncomfortable for you.。
Are you going to be obedient to what the spirit is doing, even though that might put。
you in some challenging situations?。
Maybe that will put you in a place where it's uncomfortable, but are you willing to live。
your life so much that you would become a witness of him, one who demonstrates and declares。
to the glory of God in the world around him?。
And this, my friends, becomes all of the book of Acts from this point.。
This is why all of this is so important and why Jesus is teaching this right at the start。
into his church because he's shaking off some of the dust that was going to settle on them.。
He's preparing them for what's ahead.。
And in the future, in the weeks ahead, and we're going to see this in the series a lot,。
his people become responders, witnesses to the power and the glory of God simply because。
they said they were open.。
In fact, let me show you one example of this very quickly here this morning as we draw。
to a close.。
I love this example.。
This is found in Acts chapter 8.。
Follow this.。
"Now an angel of the Lord said to Philip, Philip, one of the disciples, 'Go south to。
the road, the desert road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza.'。
So he started out."。
Notice this.。
Philip had no idea what God was going to do that day.。
He didn't go, "Okay, God, thank you for speaking to me this morning in my quiet time.。
I really appreciate that.。
Great to have your voice in my life.。
You want me to go down a road.。
First of all, I need to know exactly how to walk down that road.。
It would be really good if you could tell me what's ahead down that road.。
I'd like to get prepared for all of that."。
This would be like God saying to me one morning, "Andrew, I want you to walk down one chai。
road.。
I want you to walk from the Causeway Bay end towards central, and I just want you to walk."。
And me going, "I'm going to walk."。
And you guys going, "What is Andrew doing?"。
Philip just has no idea.。
But notice, he's obedient to the Holy Spirit, even though it might be uncomfortable, even。
though he doesn't have all the answers, even though he doesn't know how things are going。
to work out, but he's willing to go.。
Notice what happens next.。
"So then he stepped out, and on his way he met an Ethiopian eunuch, an important official。
in charge of all the treasury of Candace, queen of the Ethiopians.。
This man had gone to Jerusalem to worship, and on his way home was sitting in his chariot。
reading the book of the Isaiah, the prophet.。
The Spirit told Philip, 'Go to that chariot and stay near it.'"。
Isn't this great?。
So here's Philip, no idea what's about to happen.。
No idea, but he's being faithful to what the Spirit's told him to do.。
He's walking randomly down this road, but in the side, the story is God is brewing up。
something that only God can brew up.。
And here's this Ethiopian eunuch, this man of standing in the upper Nile region of Africa,。
one that God has been working on his heart already, one who's actually gone to Jerusalem。
to learn what it might be to worship this Yahweh, to worship this God, and to wonder。
what the Messiah might be all about.。
So God's at work with the Ethiopian, and he's at work with Philip, who's willing to live。
in a certain way.。
And it's almost like God is bringing these two things together, and you can see God's。
excitement as they come closer and closer together.。
You following this?。
So here's Philip.。
Now notice this.。
Then the Holy Spirit says, "Go and stand alongside of that chariot."。
Now the chariot was walking at the time, so he's having to run alongside this chariot.。
I mean, he's looking like an idiot at this moment.。
But he's willing to be uncomfortable in obedience to the Holy Spirit.。
He's running alongside the chariot.。
He has no idea why he's running alongside the chariot.。
But as he's running alongside of it, he hears the person inside reading from the scroll,。
the book of Isaiah.。
Now here's the fascinating thing.。
At this point, notice what happens, because what we think is going to happen doesn't.。
It says here, "Then Philip ran up to the chariot and heard the man reading from Isaiah the。
prophet.。
'Do you understand what you are reading?'。
Philip asked.。
'How can I?' he said.。
'Unless someone explains it to me.'。
So he invited Philip to come up and sit with him."。
I love this moment because the Holy Spirit has said, "Go down this road."。
He had gone.。
The Holy Spirit said, "Go alongside this chariot."。
He had gone alongside this chariot.。
Now the Holy Spirit said, "Talk to the guy."。
No, the Holy Spirit didn't say that.。
The Holy Spirit led him to the very place where then Philip, because he's got a character。
over competency, because he knows he's uncharted waters, because the Holy Spirit has been forming。
and shaping him when he gets alongside the chariot.。
The Holy Spirit doesn't have to tell him to begin to witness to the gospel.。
No, he hears someone reading Isaiah and his immediate response, the immediacy to God suddenly。
is to say, "Do you understand what you're reading?。
Because if not, I'd love to explain it to you."。
And the Ethiopian's like, "Dude, come on up.。
Sit with me."。
And they sit together and he shares the gospel with him.。
The Ethiopian believes the gospel, repents of his sin, gets baptized, and for all we。
know, he's the very first African convert to Christianity.。
And then he's going to return back to Africa and a whole continent gets evangelized because。
of this one moment, because Philip was obedient to the Spirit, was looking for the Spirit,。
walked with the Spirit, but then was willing to respond with an immediate lead to God suddenly.。
Are you with me?。
A whole nation comes to faith through somebody with that kind of faith.。
Let me close with a story.。
Last week, I shared the story about my mobile phone dying on me in the Camino and I shared。
about how bad that was, but I actually only shared half the story with you.。
Let me now share the other half of the story as we close.。
My phone had completely died, broken, gone, and four days into it being busted, I was。
getting more and more frustrated.。
Frustrated I couldn't speak to my wife and daughter, frustrated I couldn't navigate well。
every day, frustrated I had to rely on everybody else.。
But my frustrations that day were even more because I'd realized the night before, borrowing。
somebody else's mobile phone, that the next mobile phone store was in a city seven days。
walk away.。
And so I realized that not only am I facing these first four days, but I'm going to have。
another seven days before I can actually get a phone up and running and be able to touch。
base with the people I needed to touch base with.。
So I was feeling this huge amount of frustration.。
I was walking really angry at God.。
Anyone been angry at God here?。
Just your pastor.。
So I'm walking angry at God and I'd just gone through a village.。
I'd had a rest stop at this village.。
I'd filled up my water and everything and I was good to go.。
And so I came to this another village and I was expecting to walk through this village,。
which happened a lot on the Camino, because I'd just stopped so I didn't need to stop.。
So I was going to walk through this village.。
And as I'm walking through the village, out of this cafe, this lady goes, "Andrew, come。
and sit with me."。
That's how her voice exactly sounded, by the way, just exactly like that.。
Anyway, it was this lady, Jane, that I'd met a couple of nights before.。
Didn't know super well at that time, met her a couple of nights before, but she wanted。
me to go sit with her.。
And the last thing I wanted to do was to stop and sit with her because I'd just stopped。
in the previous village.。
And in the Camino, there's this unwritten code that if you wave and smile and keep walking,。
then that just means you want to keep going.。
And it's not seen as rude.。
So I'm prepared to just wave at her.。
And I feel like the Holy Spirit speaks to me.。
And the Holy Spirit speaks really strongly and says, "You need to go sit with her."。
And I'm like, "Okay."。
So rather than walk on, I turn around and I sit down with Jane at this cafe.。
And she asked me this question as soon as I sit down.。
It's a really interesting question.。
She said, "If you could change anything about the Camino, what would you change?"。
And I said, "Well, right now, I would like to get in a bus, go seven days down the road。
on this bus, get to this place and buy a mobile phone."。
And I told her about my story about the mobile phone.。
As I'm talking to her, she's listening to me very gently.。
She gets her backpack out and she opens up her backpack and she fishes inside the backpack。
and she pulls out a mobile phone.。
And she says, "Andrew, a couple of months ago when I was preparing for the Camino, I。
felt God tell me to bring a spare mobile phone with me."。
And she said, "I pushed back on it because it's carrying extra weight in the bag and。
you know that nobody wants to carry any extra weight.。
But I've been carrying this spare mobile phone for two weeks in the Camino for no reason。
why I was carrying it.。
Now you've just shared your story with me."。
She goes, "I think God wants me to give you this phone."。
And I said, "You are right.。
He does want you to."。
Faithful woman.。
Faithful woman.。
Thank you.。
So, as I'm taking this phone from her, this other pilgrim walks in.。
He's a German.。
He's like, "Hello."。
I don't know how to do Germans.。
I'm not going to do a German accent.。
But he says, "Can I join you at your table?"。
And we're like, "Yeah, sure."。
He's a young German guy and he comes and sits down and he's like, "What are you doing?"。
You know, like he sees us like handing phones back and forth.。
It's the worst German accent ever.。
But he sees us like handing phones back and forth and I say, "Oh, well, you know."。
And I share the story about everything that happened and his eyes lit up and he goes,。
"Oh, back in Germany."。
He's like, "Back in Germany, I work in a mobile phone store.。
And every day, all day long, I take people's old phones and I get them up and working on。
a new phone.。
If you give me your phone and if you take the SIM card out of your old phone, I will。
get your phone working in 15 minutes.。
And 15 minutes later, I suddenly have a brand spanking new mobile phone.。
Isn't that awesome?"。
So, here they are.。
Let me show you a photo of them.。
There they are.。
Now, I will admit to you.。
I will admit to you that Philip's story is way better than mine because Philip evangelized。
a whole nation and I just got a mobile phone.。
But maybe it demonstrates that God works in this way in big and small ways and that we。
never know what it is that God is going to do but he is orchestrating it all.。
And in times of unchartedness, we can't predict the suddenlies but we can be prepared to react。
with the immediatelies.。
And the way we do that is we have to let go of those plans and strategies of what we want。
or think Jesus should do for us.。
We have to strip ourselves of the when of God and we have to place ourselves open to。
receive the power of the Spirit that changes us within us and prepares us that when the。
Holy Spirit says, "Go," we go.。
Let me pray for us.。
Let's pray.。
Father, I thank you for each person here in this room.。
I thank you for what it is that you're doing in their hearts and in their lives.。
And I thank you that you have moved them into a season that is uncharted.。
And Lord, we have no idea what it is that you're about to do.。
Lord, on that day I had no idea I was going to get a new phone.。
And Lord, the people in this room have no idea what tomorrow is going to hold in the。
adventure and the excitement of an uncharted season.。
But Lord, I want to pray that we can prepare ourselves for the immediatelies.。
And I want to pray for each person here in this moment that you would strip away, that。
you would release, Lord, the things that we are relying on that are not of you.。
Whether that's our own plans, whether that's our desire for the timing and the when of。
God, whether that's the frustrations because it feels like you're not answering us on the。
ways and the time where you thought.。
Lord, I believe you want to strip from people in this room right now just an over-reliance。
on the things that are only going to create more frustration in the season ahead.。
And instead, you want to pour out the power of your Holy Spirit.。
So Lord, I want to pray for each person here as they release what it is that you're calling。
them to release here this morning, that they would be filled with the power of God.。
With the power of God so that they could become your witnesses.。
That they would become public manifestations of the mercy and the grace and the love of。
Jesus.。
That they would be like Philip, able to react and respond as the Holy Spirit leads without。
fear.。
So Lord, we come against fear.。
We come against the things that hold us rooted to the known.。
We come against the things that would want to root us to where things are comfortable。
for us.。
And Lord, we pray that you would fill us with such power that we wouldn't just see the dramatic。
things that we would see in these 90 minutes on a Sunday together as great as they are.。
But it would be the fuel that would drive us outwards to the people of this city that。
you love so much.。
There are so many Ethiopian eunuchs just outside the doors of this community.。
Lord, I pray that you would send your church.。
I pray you would send us, Lord.。
And that over this sermon series, we would get the values inside of us, the character。
over competency that we will need for the incredible, amazing things you are about to。
do.。
We thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, "Hey, would you stand with me?。
I know we've gone a bit late today, but I want to just finish our time with some time。
in worship as we just allow the Spirit to move.。
So let's take some time to do that now."。
