Waiting for something to happen that you're expecting to happen, but that doesn't happen,。
is really awkward, isn't it?。
I just looked around the room whilst you were waiting for me to start.。
Normally, I rush into it, don't I?。
But as I looked around the room, all of you would not look at me in the eyes at all.。
It was like a super awkward moment for all of us.。
When we're waiting for something to happen and it doesn't happen, we human beings find。
it really awkward, really uncomfortable, really strange.。
My daughter and I experienced this at the extreme this past week.。
We were in Queenstown in New Zealand, and my daughter, as we were about a month ago,。
she had said, "Oh, Dad, when we're in Queenstown, I want to do the Canyon Swing," which audibly。
didn't sound that bad, the Canyon Swing.。
That sounds like a pretty okay thing.。
She sent me some videos of the Canyon Swing, and I saw these videos, and I realized there。
was a 100-meter drop, free fall.。
You're basically sitting in this kind of swing.。
You drop for 100 meters, and then you swing out over this massive canyon.。
It looked like the worst thing a human being would want to do.。
But my daughter was so excited to do the Canyon Swing.。
She's like, "Daddy, you're going to have to do it with me.。
You can do it tandem.。
We'll sit side by side, and we'll do this crazy thing."。
And I thought to myself, "Do I be a good father, or do I be a sane human being?"。
So we signed up for the Canyon Swing.。
We went up to this high peak above this canyon.。
We looked down on this little platform.。
There were about 10 of us that were going to do this Canyon Swing, and I said to Mia,。
"We're going to have to go first."。
She's like, "No, Dad.。
No, no, no.。
No, I don't want to go first.。
Let other people go first."。
So I said, "No, no, because if I wait, I will not do it.。
I need to just get up there, and I need to do this.。
I need to get it done.。
We need to just get on with it."。
Now the crazy thing about the Canyon Swing is you can decide how you swing off the bridge,。
and Mia decided that she wanted to do the chainsaw.。
Now the chainsaw requires you to sit down in these harnesses.。
They send you out on this crane over the canyon, and they hang you there.。
So you've got a hundred meter drop below you.。
They hang you there, and then they get out a chainsaw.。
And the rope that is holding you in the air, a hundred meters above the canyon, they saw。
that rope, and then you go.。
So we're hanging out over this canyon, and the lady is standing over us with the chainsaw,。
and she's fake-sawing the string, the rope.。
So we're hanging there for far longer than we wanted to.。
Have you ever been in a situation where you're waiting for something to happen that you think。
is going to happen, and it doesn't happen?。
That's about the worst thing you could do with the Canyon Swing, okay?。
Because you're hanging out over this drop, and suddenly she's like, "Oh, maybe now."。
She's like, "Maybe now.。
Maybe now."。
And I'm just like, "Cut the swing.。
Like I want to go."。
And finally she does it, and we plummet, and it was crazy, and my heart rate is pounding。
just with the memory of it.。
As human beings, we don't like to wait, do we?。
Waiting is difficult.。
Waiting feels awkward.。
It feels awkward in the world in which we live today, a fast-paced, consumeristic, "I。
want it now" kind of world.。
In fact, we've put a high value on the things that come immediately.。
Like if we have to wait for something, we lower its value.。
The things that are worth it are the things that come quickly.。
When I make my Taobao order, it better come in a couple of days.。
I don't want to wait weeks.。
When I order my food or my coffee, I need it to come quickly.。
When something comes to me quickly, I place a high value on it.。
I see it as a good thing.。
We've almost come to see waiting as failure, waiting as if there is a problem.。
The scariest symbol that is around all of our lives today is this very symbol.。
Nobody likes this symbol.。
When this symbol happens, you start freaking out, do you not?。
This communicates that something is broken, that something's gone wrong, that you're going。
to have to wait for the mobile phone page to load, and nobody wants to wait for the。
page to load.。
We do everything as we can as human beings in this day and age to make sure that we don't。
wait for anything.。
We upgrade our internet at home, but then a month later we complain that YouTube loads。
too slowly.。
We are constantly at work trying to make things happen as quickly as possible.。
That old story, that old phrase, "Good things come to those who wait," has been replaced。
in our generation by "Good things come to those who are first in line, those who act。
first, those who act quickest, those that get ahead of the rest.。
They're the ones that receive the good things.。
Those that wait, well, they get the worst."。
It's funny because this idea of kind of being anti-into-waiting has seeped into our Christian。
faith.。
It's seeped into our churches, into our faith personally, even into our doctrine.。
As Christians, we've come to think that God must act, and He must act immediately.。
And if God doesn't act immediately, there's something wrong with God.。
It's almost like there's something wrong with Him, and we begin to judge His character,。
judge His ability, judge His love for us, even at times judge His existence.。
When God doesn't act in the time frame we want Him to act in, we demand an upgrade.。
We really struggle as Christians with this idea that we may have to wait for something.。
And if we don't blame God for it, here's what often happens.。
We end up blaming ourselves.。
Waiting has almost become for Christians a sign of a lack of faith, not faith, a lack。
of faith.。
Haven't you been praying about it?。
Haven't you been seeking the Lord?。
Well, maybe you haven't fasted yet.。
If you fasted, you would receive it.。
If you just prayed a bit more, if you got rid of your sin, if you actually confess some。
of those things that you're holding.。
Like if you've been waiting ages for your healing, haven't you?。
You've been waiting ages for that thing to happen in your life, for that promise to come。
through.。
Well, God's a good God.。
God wants to give good things to His people.。
So if you're waiting, well, there must be something wrong with you.。
Either we, as Christians, blame God when things go slow in our spiritual lives, or we blame。
ourselves.。
I've experienced both in the waiting seasons of my life.。
I've shared with you many times about the infertility journey that my wife and I went。
through and the almost eight years of waiting that it took to go from diagnosis of being。
infertile to receiving our beautiful daughter, Mia.。
It was about an eight-year period.。
And during that eight-year period, I did not wait well.。
I blamed God.。
I judged His character.。
I thought that He was distant.。
I thought that He was not powerful enough.。
And then after I got over myself for getting over God, I then got on myself that I'm not。
doing the right things.。
That obviously if God loved me more or if I pleased Him more, He might act quicker in。
my life.。
And so I tried all these things to please God and make Him love me more.。
Because if He loved me more, surely He would give me the things that He wants to give me。
waiting for us Christians is a really awkward thing.。
As we were praying about the beginning of this year, it's funny.。
Normally when we start the new year here at the Vine, and I've been involved here in the。
church for almost 30 years now, almost every new year series that we do is a "Woo-hoo,。
pumped up, let's go" series.。
It's a one to inspire you, to give you great hope for the year ahead.。
But as we were praying for 2026 as a leadership, we felt the Lord say that there are a lot。
of people in our community who are waiting and are finding waiting really hard.。
I mean, think for a moment about what it is that you might be waiting for in your life.。
No doubt that there are seasons of waiting for almost all of us here in different objects,。
in different areas with different things.。
I think of our asylum seekers and our refugees, some of them who have been waiting for over。
10 years for the UNHCR to give them a judgment on their case or the Hong Kong government。
to answer something that they've asked for.。
Almost over 10 years some of our asylum seekers have been waiting.。
I think of our domestic helpers here who often have to wait a long time before they can go。
back home to their country to visit with their family.。
I think of those in our community that have received a promise from God and are waiting。
for that promise to come through.。
I think of those who are waiting for healing and restoration.。
Those who are waiting for that response to a job application or waiting for a new job。
maybe have been waiting for a long time.。
I think about those who have been waiting for a spouse, waiting for a new relationship,。
waiting for somebody to come through for them, waiting for that phone call to get returned,。
waiting for that person to say sorry.。
Whatever it might be, all of us know what these seasons of waiting are like and they。
are difficult for us because we either have a faulty theology, God is going to act immediately。
all the time if he loves, or we have a faulty way of thinking about ourselves, that I'm。
broken, that God's punishing me, that this is the reason why I'm in waiting.。
So often waiting seasons are hard and we felt as a leadership that there are many of us。
who are struggling, whose hearts are bruised, whose spirits are downcast because of the。
wait that we're in.。
Psychologists would tell us that when we wait, we often go through four emotional cycles.。
This is interesting.。
The first cycle is confusion.。
Why am I waiting?。
Like why is this happening?。
Why is it happening to me?。
I didn't think this was going to happen to me.。
So there's a season, a period of confusion.。
Often times if the confusion is not dealt with or if the answers don't come, it then。
brings us into a place of anxiety.。
Am I always going to be like this?。
Is this wait going to be forever?。
Will the answer ever come?。
Will that phone call ever come?。
Will the diagnosis ever come through?。
Whatever it might be that we're waiting for, there's this anxiousness within us.。
And unless we deal with that anxiety in positive ways, if we try to bury that anxiety, we then。
move into the third emotional state, which is a hopelessness.。
And the hopelessness is just like, "Well, I've been waiting for too long."。
The hopelessness is like this kind of attitude.。
It's just like a, "It's hard, eh?"。
You know, you just kind of like sit down and you're just like, "Well, I guess this is my。
lot in life.。
I guess I'm just going to have to wait.。
I guess I'm just going to have to like, whatever.。
I guess, you know, I guess this is just the way it's going to be.。
What is, is, is."。
Which then moves us into the fourth state, which is a self-pity state.。
"This is my life.。
This is always me.。
This always happens to me."。
We come in a place where we victimize ourselves.。
We feel like the victim of this crazy thing that's happened.。
So we go through confusion to anxiety, to hopelessness, to a sense of self-pity.。
Perhaps this resonates with some of you.。
Maybe you can think about your season of waiting right now and you can say, "Yeah, I'm kind。
of in one of these."。
And these are linear, but then they're secular as well.。
You kind of get to self-pity and then you get confused again, which leads to more anxiety,。
which leads to greater hopelessness, which means more self-pity.。
And we're wondering, can the cycle be broken?。
What do we do when we need to wait?。
When God is not yet ready to give us the answer?。
When he's in control, the dominoes are set, but it's not yet ready for the first one to。
get pushed.。
How do we as Christians find hope, healing, restoration for our souls and our hearts,。
even when the promise is still a long way off?。
This is what we felt as a leadership for God for us to speak into in the start of this。
year.。
You'll be encouraged to know that there are over 200 passages in Scripture that speak。
on the topic of waiting.。
So waiting is not a new thing in Scripture at all.。
Waiting is deeply embedded in the stories of God.。
You look at some of the greatest people of faith, and they had to often wait long periods。
of time before they received the thing that they had on their heart from the Lord.。
So there's over 200 passages in the Bible about waiting.。
As preparation for this series, I did a little overview of those 200 passages, and I noticed。
something that I wouldn't have thought going into this, and this is the reality, that the。
Bible predominantly speaks about seasons of waiting as a gift.。
That sounds a bit funny because they haven't been much of a gift for me in my life.。
I don't know about you in your life.。
Now that doesn't mean that the Bible downplays the emotions that come alongside of a waiting。
period.。
There's a lot of stuff in Scripture that helps us when we're feeling anxious and confused。
and we're feeling hopeless.。
There's a lot of things within God's Word that can meet us in those emotional moments。
of waiting, but the predominant discussion about waiting in Scripture is that waiting。
is a season of a gift, that it's a way for you to slow down, to take the foot off the。
gas a little bit, to receive something that perhaps you wouldn't have received if you'd。
just kept on going.。
That seasons of waiting are a time to see God differently, to perhaps deal with some。
of the faulty theology that we might have.。
The Bible says that those who wait on the Lord will renew their strength, that they。
will rise up like wings of eagles.。
There's positivity in the reality of a season of waiting.。
When the Bible speaks about waiting, it speaks about it as one of God's keenest and most。
specific discipleship tools.。
It's a way of reminding us that we are not Him.。
It's a way of stripping away from us our dependency on ourselves.。
It's a way of putting us into a uncomfortable situation where we need to reach out and rely。
on God to come through and only God to come through.。
It is a gift of trust, of obedience, a season where we encounter God in ways that we wouldn't。
have done if we didn't have to wait in the first place.。
One of the greatest passages on waiting in Scripture is one of my favorite Psalms, Psalm。
27.。
Psalm 27 is a Psalm of David, where David speaks about the agony of life, where he's。
honest.。
He writes this brutal Psalm about all the ups and downs that he's gone through.。
Right at the end of the Psalm, he calls out to his people to wait on the Lord.。
Throughout the whole Psalm, he's weaving a narrative of what waiting can be like and。
how waiting can actually be a gift.。
That waiting can propel us into some of the greatest encounters that we will ever have。
with God Himself.。
We're going to spend five weeks in Psalm 27.。
I'm really excited about this.。
As you go in depth into one Psalm, God really begins to reveal some beautiful things.。
If you're in a season of waiting, if this is resonating already with you, you've got。
an amazing five weeks ahead of you.。
If you're not in a season of waiting, you can come back in five weeks' time.。
Don't do that.。
You'll learn something anyway.。
I want to do something different today.。
I'm going to read the Psalm to you, but I'm not going to put it up on the screen because。
I want you to receive it in a fresh way.。
For some of you, this will be hearing the Psalm for the first time, perhaps.。
For many of you, you've probably heard the Psalm before.。
It's quite a famous one, but I want you to hear it in a fresh way.。
Can I just encourage you to close your eyes?。
I want to read over you this beautiful Psalm of David, Psalm 27.。
As our eyes are closed, as our hearts are open, David writes this, "The Lord is my light。
and my salvation.。
Whom should I fear?。
The Lord is the stronghold of my life, so then whom should I be afraid?。
When evil people advance against me to devour me, when my enemies, my foes attack me, they。
will stumble and fall.。
Though an army besiege me, you know my heart will not fear.。
Though war break out against me, even then I will find confidence.。
One thing I ask of the Lord, this is what I seek, that I may dwell in the house of the。
Lord all of the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to seek Him in。
His temple.。
For in the day of trouble, He will keep me safe in His dwelling.。
He will hide me in the shelter of His tabernacle.。
He will set my feet high upon a rock.。
Then my head will be exalted above my enemies who surround me.。
And at this tabernacle, I will sacrifice with shouts of joy.。
I will sing and make music to the Lord.。
Hear my voice when I call you, O Lord.。
Be merciful to me and answer me.。
My heart says of you, 'Seek His face.'。
Your face, Lord, I will seek.。
Do not hide your face from me.。
Do not turn your servant away in anger.。
You have been my helper.。
Do not reject me or forsake me, O God, my Savior.。
Though my father and mother forsake me, the Lord will receive me.。
So teach me your ways, O Lord.。
Lead me in a straight path because of my oppressors.。
Do not turn me over to the desires of my foes, for false witnesses are rising up against。
me, breathing out violence.。
But I am still confident of this.。
I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living.。
So wait for the Lord.。
Be strong and take heart and wait for the Lord.。
Father I want to pray over the next five weeks that you would do something prophetically。
powerful in the people in this room.。
I pray that you would pastor your church over the next five weeks, Lord, through the fast。
and the devotions, through the sermons and the worship and the ministry.。
Lord, would you teach us what it is to wait on you?。
Would we capture something of David's heart?。
Would it change us?。
We pray this in Jesus' name.。
It's a beautiful psalm, isn't it?。
It's a psalm of brutal honesty.。
I mean, David doesn't hold back in this psalm.。
He talks about all the stuff that's going on in his life.。
He talks about all the challenges.。
And then he gets to the end and he says these words, "Wait on the Lord."。
He's like, "I have confidence in this.。
I'm going to see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living."。
Wait on the Lord, he says.。
Be strong and take heart.。
Wait on the Lord.。
The word wait here right at the end of the psalm is a word in Hebrew that's used throughout。
the Old Testament to talk about this season of waiting.。
The word in Hebrew is kaffa.。
And kaffa literally means this, and it's quite interesting.。
It means to bind together, to gather together, to look, and to expect, which I don't know。
about you, but doesn't sound like the definition of our modern understanding of waiting.。
In the Hebrew word, waiting means bind together, gather together, look, and expect.。
The word itself is a verb.。
It's an action word.。
It's calling for and asking for action, which sounds very different to how we generally。
think about waiting now.。
When somebody says that you need to wait, you generally think of inaction, don't you?。
You generally think of a time where you're not doing anything, where you're kind of waiting.。
Waiting is defined by the reality of not doing anything.。
That's not how the Bible speaks of waiting.。
It's not how David communicates the idea of waiting.。
He chooses this Hebrew word that specifically teaches us that in the Hebrew way of thinking,。
waiting is not inaction.。
It's not idleness.。
It's active anticipation of change.。
I want you to hear this, church, because it's so important.。
Waiting in the Hebrew is active anticipation of change.。
It is not the reality of change in that moment.。
It is not the answer of every prayer in the moment.。
It is not a God who often acts immediately and straightaway.。
Waiting in the Hebrew is an opportunity to actively anticipate the change that is coming.。
In other words, it's a prophetic gift.。
Come on, church.。
You may not have thought about this, but waiting is a prophetic gift.。
It is an opportunity to lean forward, to gather up all of your hope, to bind together the。
things that you're expecting of the Lord, the promises and the prayers and the ideas,。
and to look with hope, to look with expectation, to have an anticipation that there's going。
to be some change in the future.。
Oh, I wish it was now, but the reality is it hasn't come yet.。
So I am going to anticipate that even maybe tomorrow or the day after or a month from。
now or six months from now, I don't know when it's coming.。
I'm not responsible for the sending of the promise.。
I'm not responsible for the receiving of the healing.。
I don't know the timeframe I am called to prophetically hope.。
That sounds pretty challenging, doesn't it?。
Think about it visually.。
I'm going to sit down next to my friend again, sorry.。
But modern idea is this.。
This is what we think about waiting.。
The Hebrew concept is this.。
Are you with me?。
The Hebrew concept is like the father in the parable of the prodigal son.。
You know the parable well, don't you?。
The father with two sons, one of them, the younger one, asks for his inheritance, goes。
off to a faraway land, squanders all his money.。
Then one day realizes that he would rather be a servant in his father's house than swining。
with the pigs.。
And he gets up and he starts to walk towards the father.。
But the parable tells us the father is waiting for the son to return.。
That doesn't mean he's sitting here going like, "I guess one day when he realizes he's。
an idiot, he'll come back."。
The parable pitches him, they didn't have binoculars in those days, but it pitches him。
like he's doing this.。
Like the father is waiting for the prodigal to come home and he's waiting for this moment。
where he's living with active anticipation of change.。
The father waiting for the son so that when the son even just pops up over the horizon,。
he already sees him, hitches up the hem of his robe and he runs towards them.。
That's what it means to wait in the Hebrew.。
Those who wait on the Lord will renew their strength.。
They will rise up on the wings of eagles.。
Even I am confident of this.。
I will see.。
Notice the active anticipation of change.。
David's just spent a whole psalm telling you his life is terrible.。
Have you noticed this?。
Have a look at the psalm again.。
Let me show you some of these bits in the psalm where he's talking about how tough things。
are for him.。
Evil men advance against me to devour my flesh, my enemies, my foes, armies besiege me, war。
breaks out against me, enemies surround me, my father and my mother forsake me, false。
witnesses rising up against me.。
I mean, this is a liturgy of David basically saying, "My life sucks right now and I would。
really like my life to be better, but I am waiting on the Lord."。
He's saying he calls Israel to wait not out of theory, out of practice.。
He's gone through it.。
He's going through it.。
And for whatever reason, God has not delivered him yet from the enemies, from the evil people,。
from the false accusations.。
God has not suddenly set him completely free of all of this.。
He's right in the middle of the battle, but he says, "I am still confident of this.。
No matter what is going on around me, no matter what prayers haven't been answered, no matter。
what waiting season I'm in, I'm still confident on this.。
I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living."。
In other words, goodness will not come after I die.。
I'm looking forward to being with him in heaven forever, but I'm not believing that the only。
goodness I'm going to experience is when I die and go to heaven.。
I believe I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living.。
So wait for him, he says.。
Get an active anticipation of change.。
Grab the prophetic gift of waiting on the Lord and watch what happens.。
We might still be confused.。
We might be anxious.。
We may feel seasons of hopelessness and there's probably going to be moments of self-pity.。
God meets us in all of those moments, but he expects his church to be sitting at the。
edge of their seats, binoculars in hand, going, "Is it today?"。
Could you imagine if it was today?。
This is why right at the end of the psalm, David Pastorale says this.。
He says these words.。
He says, "I want you to take heart and be strong."。
If you just go to the last part of the slides, he says, "Be strong and take heart."。
Isn't that beautiful?。
I love David's Pastoral response to his people.。
He's like, "Man, I've gone through it.。
I'm going through it.。
I wish it wasn't the way it is, but it is.。
I'm in a season of waiting."。
He's like, "But here's the thing."。
He shifts to this Pastoral declaration.。
"Be strong," he says.。
"Take heart."。
The word here is strong and courageous.。
Be strong and courageous.。
It's a very famous Hebrew phrase.。
It's used throughout the Old Testament.。
Be strong and courageous.。
It's not asking for strength in your own strength.。
It's saying, "Be strong in the waiting and take heart that God is coming.。
Lean forward with that active anticipation of change.。
Strengthen your faith.。
Strengthen your hope.。
The answers are not within you.。
The answers will come from the Lord, but wait prophetically for Him to act."。
These words were used throughout the Old Testament for this kind of prophetic strength to come。
from the Lord.。
Moses spoke these words over Joshua just as he was handing reign of Israel into Joshua's。
hands.。
Joshua then spoke the words, "Be strong and courageous," over the armies that were about。
to march around Jericho.。
David would speak these words specifically over his son Solomon as he's about to take。
on the leadership of Israel.。
Later in the Old Testament, King Hezekiah speaks these words over the commanders of。
his armies as they were about to be sieged in Jerusalem, telling them to take strong.。
Be strong and take heart.。
These words are used throughout the Scriptures in times where it feels like everything is。
overwhelming and we just need God to come and meet us in that place.。
If we could just take heart, if we could just believe this active anticipation that He's。
coming, the waiting becomes a gift and not a place of anxiety, confusion, hopelessness,。
and self-pity.。
And what I want to do is we start our series.。
We're going to go week by week through this psalm and we're going to break it down in。
its little segments.。
And each week we're going to show you a negative aspect of waiting and then what David speaks。
to that in that part of the psalm and we'll do that over the whole of January into February.。
But I wanted to start this morning just by pastorally praying for you.。
Perhaps this is already resonating and you're recognizing the need for this in your life.。
I would love to pray over us and over you at the start of 2026 that whatever season。
of waiting you're in right now or perhaps a season of waiting that may come even over。
the next 12 months would become a gift for you.。
It doesn't mean it'll be easy.。
It doesn't mean there won't be times of challenge within it, but that you will see a sense of。
propheticness to this season of waiting in your life.。
And I believe that this series is going to set you up for what the Holy Spirit really。
wants you to do.。
So I wonder whether we could just close our eyes and I want to invite just, and this may。
not be everybody, but I want to invite anyone here this morning, just whilst our eyes are。
closed, if you really want prayer for this at the start of this year, at the start of。
this season, the start of this series, you're saying to yourself, "Yeah, I'm in a season。
of waiting and I need prayer."。
I wonder whether you would just stand and I'm going to pray over us, everybody who's。
standing, I'm going to pray for you that the Lord would strengthen your hands and give。
you courage for the season that you're in.。
So if that's for you this morning, as we start this year, would you just stand with me and。
I'm going to take a moment to pray for you.。
Holy Spirit, we're grateful that we gather at the beginning of this year, honest before。
you, recognizing we're in seasons of waiting, knowing that it's hard to wait.。
And do we wish that the thing that we were waiting for would come tomorrow?。
Yes, we do.。
That will always be our prayer.。
Lord answer that prayer, send that email, help me with that job, heal my disease.。
Lord, our prayers are always going to be to ask you to do what we cannot accomplish for。
ourselves and to ask you to do it quickly.。
There's nothing wrong with those prayers at all.。
But Lord in your wisdom and in your kindness at times, you call your people to wait.。
And so Lord I want to pray for the people standing here in this room right now, as we。
start this series, as we start this year.。
Lord, I'm excited for the things that you are going to do in their spirit, for the things。
that you're going to do in their hearts.。
As we were praying downstairs this morning for this service, we had a picture of bruised。
hearts.。
One of the things that a waiting period can do is bruise your heart.。
It can hurt.。
It can be really hard.。
Perhaps as you're standing here in this moment, you can feel that bruised heart within you.。
And the Lord gave us that picture this morning because he wants to heal bruised hearts.。
I believe he wants to do a significant work in you now and over this series.。
So Father for each person here where they sense a bruised heart, or perhaps they know。
confusion or anxiety or hopelessness or self-pity at this time.。
Father when David writes to Israel and says, "Be strong and take heart.。
Wait for the Lord."。
He was speaking hope and strength and faith into his people.。
So Lord that's how we start this series.。
I pray for hope, faith and strength into each person who is standing here this morning saying,。
"This is for me.。
This is my journey.。
I need this.。
I've been overwhelmed.。
It's been hard.。
I wish the answers had come quicker.。
But Lord I believe that I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living.。
I believe Lord."。
Maybe that's just a prayer for you this morning just to offer before the Lord.。
"Lord I believe.。
Help me with my unbelief."。
As Thomas so beautifully prayed to the risen Savior.。
"Lord I believe.。
Help me with my unbelief.。
I believe that I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living.。
Help me with my unbelief Lord.。
I want to prophetically embrace the gift of a season of waiting."。
Father we thank you so much for your goodness to us.。
Why don't we all stand together and as we do so we'll worship together as one community。
as we continue just to allow the Spirit to speak to us.。
