in Jesus name, amen.。
- Amen, thank you, Carla.。
Wow, it's so good to be here at two o'clock.。
Third one today, so please pray for me.。
You know I love being here.。
I call this my favorite pulpit in the whole world.。
But today I wanna share something special,。
something very dear to my heart.。
At the Vine this year, God has given us a vision。
for uncharted territories.。
And Pastor Andrew asked me to bring a word of encouragement。
in this area.。
Now, one of my personal uncharted territories。
that I have discovered this year, would you believe it?。
It's pickleball.。
I have become well and truly hooked.。
You might say pickled.。
The rules are simple.。
The game is easy for beginners to learn.。
But as I found, it can develop into a fast pace,。
competitive game and I like that.。
Now, the byproduct for me,。
has been a whole new group of friends and fellow players.。
A community with a common denominator.。
Hold that one for a moment.。
Because it got me thinking about the workplace.。
Another community with an albeit slightly different。
common denominator.。
It's been great to pray for Hong Kong,。
actually all day today, amazing.。
Hong Kong is known for its high, fast paced。
and competitive work environment.。
Particularly as a leading international financial hub.。
And the idea for this talk,。
actually came from an Alpha meeting.。
Anybody done Alpha?。
Anyone heard of Alpha?。
One or two, good.。
(audience laughing)。
It was reported that whilst globally,。
only 2% of Alpha courses are in the workplace.。
That figure for Hong Kong is actually 14%, seven times.。
And the Alpha courses have been conducted here。
in more than 50 different industries.。
It got me thinking.。
If we as a church are serious about uncharted territories,。
surely, surely, surely one of our major priorities。
must be the reason why our city is what it is.。
It's workplace.。
And the approximately 3.8 million people in it.。
When people are not sleeping,。
most of their time is spent working.。
The average Christian spends less than 2%。
of their time in church.。
And work was actually God's idea.。
Right at the beginning of scripture,。
after God had created the heavens and earth。
and then created man, we read in Genesis 2.15.。
The Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden。
to work it and to take care of it.。
What I'm gonna share today is part of my personal journey.。
This picture up here.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Very, very, I like it, good.。
(audience laughing)。
It tells a million stories.。
Although everybody, everybody calls me Pastor John.。
I prefer saying I am John, who happens to be a pastor.。
I came to Hong Kong in 1987 as a businessman.。
I loved my job.。
I was general manager for the Hong Kong operation of AXA,。
one of the world's largest insurance companies.。
I was a businessman longer than I've been a pastor.。
33 years, three months, and three days to be precise.。
Well, I'm not sure about that,。
but you know what three means in Cantonese, so it's good.。
And I'm often asked the question,。
how long, how long have you been in full-time ministry?。
And my answer, I have always,。
I have always been in full-time ministry.。
The truth, the reality is this.。
I reach more people for Christ in the insurance industry。
than I do as a pastor.。
I spend far too much of my time now as a pastor。
with Christians like you.。
And I want to start off today by destroying the sort of myth。
that had me one day working for the dollar。
and the next day with a permanent halo on my head, right?。
Church history has conveniently been ready。
to put things into two boxes.。
Here we've had the sacred box, the Sunday morning stuff.。
And here we've had the secular box, the Monday to Friday.。
Church was a building you went to.。
Services were the things you did there.。
And clergy were the people who delivered them.。
And can I sometimes say, at times very boring.。
This has not been my experience.。
In the early eighties, I was a reasonably successful。
sales manager of a UK insurance company.。
When in my late twenties, I realized that I'd got。
practically everything the world could throw at me。
in a material sense, yet had a gaping chasm in my heart.。
A Christ-shaped hole, to be precise.。
I first saw this in other people。
who had clearly found something I didn't have.。
I clearly found something I was looking for.。
And so I recommitted my life.。
The workplace became my mission field from day one.。
As everyone was curious what had happened to me.。
Although I was the company's leading sales manager,。
my lifestyle had been decidedly self-absorbed.。
And to be honest, I was foul-mouthed,。
I was driven, and I was a workaholic.。
But now I had a new boss.。
And I was willing to follow him to the ends of the earth.。
Literally.。
In 1987, I was asked to consider to take my family。
as a picture coming up.。
My wife, Sandra, my two sons, Paul and Matt,。
and even my old English sheepdog, Bella,。
to Hong Kong for three years, three years.。
If anyone tells you three years,。
they're not telling the truth.。
For three years.。
To start an investment services company。
for National Mutual, my parent company.。
On our only previous visit to Hong Kong, 1981,。
my wife, Sandra, took one look down Nathan Road。
and declared, "You won't get me living here。
"in a million years."。
Moral, never say never.。
My arrival was coincident with the famous。
stock market crash of 1987, called Black Monday.。
And I end up with the toughest period。
of my business life.。
Humbling.。
I wish I could tell you the whole story,。
but suffice to say, in that time,。
God gave me a deep love for Hong Kong。
and a vision for his church,。
and in particular for evangelism.。
And 38 years later, I'm still here.。
And I can give testimony to God's grace。
in that 38 years.。
My thinking on the subject of faith。
and the workplace has been heavily shaped。
by Edsel Vozo's book, "Anointed for Business,"。
which I can recommend to you.。
But before that, I'll let you into a little secret.。
I'd always secretly harbored a desire。
to be a pastor.。
Now this book and the group of insurance staff。
that I gathered around me to study it,。
we called ourselves FISH, F-I-S-H,。
Fellowship of Insurance Staff in Hong Kong.。
They told me that I already was a pastor,。
that all work was worship,。
and every Christian is a minister.。
I was a marketplace pastor.。
I learned through this book and through this time。
that every business is God's business.。
The notion that labor for profit and worship of God。
are now and have always been worlds apart。
is absolutely false.。
And I have to tell you today,。
there is no sacred secular divide.。
I mean, the early church founders,。
they were mainly community leaders。
and highly successful business people.。
Look at the gospels, Luke, medical doctor,。
Matthew, a retired tax collector,。
Mark, the manager of a family trust,。
and John, a food supplier, a fishy food supplier.。
In the book of Acts, Lydia was a dealer in purple cloth.。
Dorcas was a clothes designer.。
And yet in modern times,。
and often how things are spoken about in today's church,。
the perceived wall between commercial pursuit。
and service to God continues to be a barrier。
to advancing his kingdom.。
I love this quote from Ken Costa.。
He actually spoke here at the Vine a few years back.。
Ken Costa in his book, "God at Work," he said this,。
"God loves you."。
We know that, don't we?。
"God loves the work he has called you to."。
I wanna push this a bit further.。
Perhaps some of you in this room are doctors like Luke,。
managers of family businesses like Mark,。
merchants and retail owners like Lydia,。
or even tax collectors like Matthew.。
If that's you, we'll pray for you later.。
Each one of us is placed in a sphere of influence.。
And the question we should be asking ourselves is this,。
what does uncharted look like。
for where I spend the majority of my time?。
Where I'm in my workplace, where I am with my colleagues?。
And this is where I want to turn to in this message.。
I wanna give you three uncharted expectations。
for the workplace that I believe can really shift。
how we act, think, and live for the gospel in Hong Kong.。
And here's the first one.。
I don't have a job.。
I have a calling.。
I wanna help you realize that you are called.。
A simple illustration will help me.。
One day in 1671, Christopher Wren,。
the designer of St. Paul's Cathedral in London,。
observed three bricklayers on a scaffold.。
One was crouching, one was half standing,。
and one was standing tall, working hard and fast.。
To the first bricklayer, Christopher Wren asked a question,。
"What are you doing?"。
The bricklayer replied, "I'm a bricklayer.。
"I'm working hard laying bricks to feed my family."。
The second bricklayer responded,。
"I'm a builder.。
"I'm building a wall."。
But the third bricklayer, the most productive of the three,。
and the future leader of the group,。
when asked the question, "What are you doing?"。
Had a little gleam in his eye.。
He said this, "I'm a cathedral builder.。
"I'm building a great cathedral for the Almighty."。
Friends, I'm passionate for you to see today。
that your work is not,。
just like the man who described himself, a bricklayer.。
Your work is not about a paycheck at the end of the month,。
useful as that is in an expensive place like Hong Kong.。
You're not even like the builder。
as a means to build a successful career,。
important as that is as well.。
But you are a cathedral builder.。
You are a kingdom builder.。
The fact is over 90% of people in Hong Kong。
have yet to counter this saving power of Jesus Christ, 90% plus.。
And where do we find these people?。
I'll tell you where.。
In our offices, in our schools, in our other places of work,。
40, 50, 60, 70, or even more hours a week.。
Can you see that you're not just called to lay bricks。
or even build walls,。
but there is a higher calling.。
It's a calling not just for pastors or church workers,。
but for the very people who are spending。
most of those 40, 50, 60, 70 hours alongside them.。
You, you, and you.。
One of my favorite all-time Christian books。
is "The Call" written by Os Guinness,。
whom I've had the pleasure to meet on a number of occasions.。
He says this, "No idea short of God's call。
"can ground and fulfill the truest human desire。
"for purpose and fulfillment."。
But the Christian often mistakes the word call。
for being what we call full-time ministry.。
That is wrong.。
My friends, I need to tell you something.。
You are called.。
You are called.。
Whether you're a preacher or they call you a super apostle,。
whether you're a bank manager, a school teacher,。
or a full-time mom,。
whether you minister to drug addicts,。
or street sleepers,。
or you wash dishes in a cha-cha tank,。
you are called.。
I think this raises an important question.。
Does our calling change,。
or is our calling always constant?。
And in a way, the answer is yes,。
and in a way, the answer is no.。
Yes, in a sense that we might shift our day-to-day work。
within the calling we have,。
like me from the marketplace to the church.。
But no, in the sense that calling is always to be。
the bigger picture of the kingdom of God,。
regardless of what we do.。
And my job today is to encourage you。
to see that big picture.。
This is important.。
You might be wrestling with a nagging feeling。
that you have the wrong calling somehow,。
or think that God might have better callings。
over other callings.。
You might say, "John, I get it, I get it。
"that we all have a calling,。
"but look, as a lawyer,。
"surely I have a lesser calling。
"than you as a pastor in God's eyes."。
Now, to answer this,。
we're gonna look at the first church in Acts 2,。
post-Pentecost.。
And we read this in Acts 2, 47.。
And the Lord added to their number daily,。
daily, daily, those who are being saved.。
And where do we go daily?。
I guarantee it's not 22 Burroughs Street, Wanchai,。
unless you're Carla.。
One thing I've always been so grateful。
for us here at the Vine,。
over many years of God's grace to us,。
is that he has always said to us,。
"The church is not the four walls of the building."。
To quote Ed Silvosa again, I love this.。
"As long as we believe that the church was born。
"within four walls,。
"we will always need four walls to have a church."。
Jesus lived on earth 33 years.。
I'm not sure if it's 33 years,。
three months and three days, by the way,。
but he lived on earth 33 years.。
Only three of them were in what we call ministry.。
He was the carpenter's son.。
He was born in the marketplace.。
It was not difficult for Jesus' neighbors。
to see him as a businessman,。
as many as would have purchased his products.。
Most of Jesus' followers remain in full-time business.。
We get the expression, "Tent makers," don't we?。
This was possible because they saw the marketplace。
as their parish and their business as their pulpit.。
To them, witnessing was not an occasional activity,。
but a lifestyle.。
The book of Acts unfolds the story of believers。
who did more than tell people about Jesus in the marketplace.。
They also witnessed a steady stream of signs and wonders.。
Read the book of Acts again.。
What you see is 40,。
40 extraordinary manifestations of God power,。
and that's just the ones that are recorded in Acts.。
And out of those 40, only one happened in a religious venue.。
Read it again.。
The healing of the lame man at the gate of beautiful.。
Most of these spiritual wonders were facilitated。
by people such as Paul, Priscilla and Aquila,。
who as ministry and business partners。
are classic examples of marketplace Christians.。
Today, millions of men and women。
are similarly called to full-time ministry。
in business, education and government, the marketplace.。
Unfortunately, many of these marketplace Christians。
feel like second-class citizens。
when compared to the people who serve full-time。
in a church or a missionary context.。
This should not be the case.。
It is imperative that they realize。
not only is it okay to do a ministry in the marketplace,。
but God has explicitly called them。
and anointed them to do so.。
By anointed, I mean they have been chosen。
and empowered by the Holy Spirit。
for a divinely sanctioned arrangement.。
By ministry, I mean they can do more than just witness.。
They can bring transformation to their jobs。
and then to their cities.。
We've just prayed for it.。
We can bring transformation to Hong Kong。
as happened in the first century.。
Most marketplace Christians already know。
that their ministry and their occupation。
are somehow connected,。
but they do not comprehend exactly how.。
Watch this quote from a Christian author, Gene E.V.。
"The priesthood of all believers。
"did not make everybody into church workers."。
Amen.。
"Rather, it turned every kind of work,。
"every kind of work, into a sacred calling."。
Every kind of work into a sacred calling.。
My second uncharted expectation,。
you had to wait a long time for that one.。
Don't wait until you're ready.。
I wanna help you see the opportunity。
is right here, right now.。
I wanna read a verse from Mark 16, 15.。
He, that's Jesus, said to them,。
"Go into the whole world。
"and preach the gospel to all creation."。
Now I wanna give you some background here.。
Jesus had risen from the dead。
and he was about to go to the Father。
and he was giving his disciples instruction。
as to how the work of the gospel would continue.。
But what the church has done, has taken this verse,。
which describes the call to evangelism。
and made it seem like it only applies。
to those we discern have a gifting, have a calling,。
those who are deemed to be evangelists.。
I'm here today to tell you that Mark 16, 15。
is not a command just for evangelists, but to all believers.。
If you've been a Christian for many years。
or you've been a Christian for just a few weeks,。
the call is the same.。
Go, go, go.。
And don't wait until you think you're ready.。
Don't wait until you think you know enough scripture。
or experienced enough.。
The light is green.。
In simple terms, you go into the marketplace。
to share the good news.。
DT Niles simply says this,。
"Christianity is one beggar telling another beggar。
"where he found bread."。
I love that, yeah, screenshot it, it's good.。
Post and tag.。
"Christianity is one beggar telling another beggar。
"where he found bread."。
To demonstrate, I wanna look quickly。
at a passage in 2 Kings 7.。
In this story, Jerusalem had been under siege。
and the people were about to die of starvation.。
And so let's pick it up at verse three.。
Now there were four men with leprosy。
at the entrance of the city gate.。
They said to each other, "Why stay here until we die?。
"If we say we'll go into the city and the famine is there,。
"and we will die.。
"If we stay here, we will die."。
So let's go over to the camp of the Arameans and surrender.。
If they spare us, we live.。
If they kill us, then we die.。
Anyway, they went over to the camp。
but discovered that God had done something。
to frighten the attackers away.。
And it left behind food and precious possessions.。
We've picked it up at verse eight.。
They ate and they drank, wow, I must have felt good.。
And they carried away silver, gold and clothes。
and went off and hid them.。
Then they returned and went to another tent。
and they took some things from it and hid them also.。
The important word is in verse nine, "Then."。
"Then, then they said to each other,。
"We're not doing right.。
"This is a day of good news。
"and we're keeping it to ourselves.。
"If we wait until daylight, punishment will overtake us.。
"Let us go at once and report this to the royal palace."。
This is a day of good news。
and we are keeping it to ourselves.。
We are like those beggars.。
Only in our case, we're spiritual beggars。
and have found spiritual food.。
Then like the lepers, we decide not to keep this good news。
to ourselves, but maybe share it with our starving neighbors。
who may be sitting at the next desk from you。
or in our department.。
I mean, I find this, if someone sees a good film,。
you know, or a TV show on Netflix。
or goes to a great restaurant,。
we cannot invariably wait to share this,。
whether it be with our work college or our IG friends.。
That's the simplicity of witness.。
Christianity is one beggar telling another beggar。
where he found bread.。
If you found bread and it's the bread of life,。
you are ready, which leads me。
to my third uncharted expectation.。
And it's this, your story may be the only story。
they'll ever hear.。
I want you to pause and think about that for a moment.。
Your story may be the only story they'll ever hear.。
I wanna tell you, nobody can refute your story.。
It's powerful.。
The famous 19th century evangelist D.L. Moody。
from America said this,。
"Out of a hundred people, one will read the Bible.。
The other 99 will read the Christian."。
So I'm gonna give you some tips to help you.。
And my first one is quite simple.。
In your work situation, fly your flag early.。
Don't wait.。
It is more difficult later on.。
I'll be honest with you, I used to cheat a little.。
I used to wear a little cross on my lapel.。
I realize that's not for everyone,。
but I wanna suggest a few quick ways。
that business people can fly their flag.。
Give you some practical ways that you can do this。
in the office without colleagues feeling。
they're getting bashed over the head with a Bible.。
Or try conversation.。
What did you do at the weekend?。
It gives you the chance to say something。
about being with Christian friends.。
Or when I heard this crazy guy。
in this wonderful red shirts yesterday afternoon,。
he was talking nonsense.。
Or a church event.。
Anything you can share with without being over religious.。
Or a church event.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
You can share with someone who's sick.。
Delay in flying your flag could lead to potential compromise.。
And then the realization, "Oh, someone's trying to..."。
"Oh, I didn't realize you were one of them."。
So fly your flag early.。
Secondly, make a connection.。
Find common ground.。
People like to talk about things that they are interested in.。
If we show an interest in the things they're interested in,。
they might be more interested in what we have to say.。
When I was in sales, the first thing I'd do is go to someone's office.。
I'd look at the books, the bookshelf, all the stuff around。
for clues on things they're interested in.。
People like to talk about their hobbies, like Pickable.。
And they want to talk about their families.。
Invite them out for a coffee, or better still, happy hour.。
To get to know them.。
Get to know them rather than WhatsAppping them the latest church invitation.。
I'd like to go on, but I want to emphasize, thirdly, look for opportunities.。
The Holy Spirit will give you windows.。
25 years ago, one of my team at work knocked at my door to ask me a question.。
She was thinking of leaving.。
I didn't know.。
She said, "How? How come?。
How have you been able to stay with one company for 25 years?"。
I gave an answer I would not normally recommend.。
I just said, "Jesus."。
But that prompted an hour conversation.。
At the end of it, she prayed a prayer to receive Christ,。
and I prayed for her to be filled with the Spirit.。
She came to the Vine.。
We were in the Regal Hotel at the time.。
She's still very much part of the Vine.。
She was at 9.15 this morning.。
I baptized her in Repulse Bay, married her and her husband in Union Church,。
and dedicated their son also in the Vine.。
That's my window.。
Your window might look different,。
but what I want you to do is to encourage you to be ready when those doors open,。
which leads to my fourth tip.。
Fourthly, know your story.。
No story is better than yours.。
People can argue about theology.。
In fact, they often do.。
But they cannot argue about your personal experience.。
What I was like before I met Christ.。
How I met Christ.。
What difference has He made to my life?。
In mission team preparation, we try and do this in one minute,。
a one-minute testimony, because you may only get a minute.。
You might get longer.。
You may only get a minute.。
So find someone this week and practice your one-minute testimony with them.。
What I was like before, how I met Christ, and what my life has been like since.。
As I said earlier, your story is maybe the first time。
someone has opened up biblical truth to them.。
Everyone deserves the opportunity to hear.。
Just be open to being that opportunity.。
And you are not responsible for their response.。
Indeed, it may come years later.。
Earlier this year, I heard about two former colleagues from the '90s。
recently coming to faith.。
And in the last month, three of our Pickleball group have accepted Christ.。
Lastly, let your actions speak.。
Sometimes we don't need to say anything.。
The popular idiom is "actions speak louder than words."。
There is a danger when our words and our actions don't match up.。
Consistency is the key.。
The reality of our social media-driven age where what people are saying。
seems to have a big impact, and oftentimes, it is those who are keyboard warriors。
who are shaping the narrative of our cities and culture.。
I think there is a good reminder here for all of us。
to live less online and more in the real world.。
To be more a Christian in our everyday moments。
than be pretending to be one online.。
There is a common expression, "Going the extra mile."。
It's found in Matthew 5:41.。
We can be the extra mile people in our workplace.。
Loving people is important.。
Loving people is important regardless of whether they end up saying the sinner's prayer or not.。
We are commanded to love people regardless of the surface result.。
Can I ask, as I conclude, that we as a church, and we prayed it earlier,。
that we resolve to take hold of this opportunity。
to set sail for those uncharted territories.。
I want to have the opportunity to pray for you all.。
I particularly want to pray for three groups today.。
Firstly, younger adults. I see a few of you out there are quite young。
who are wondering what's next.。
This sense of calling, it's very difficult to take it.。
What's next? What's next? We want to pray for you.。
Secondly, for those who are older but thinking about a career change.。
And thirdly, I know there are a lot of people in this category,。
people who are currently without a job.。
If you're in these groups, we pray that God will help you see the big picture.。
And I do realize that there are practical, obvious practical considerations。
which I'm not taking lightly.。
But I want to encourage you to build a cathedral,。
not just a wall or a row of bricks.。
As a church, we want to bless you,。
especially if you're in one of these groups.。
Can we all stand and ask the band to come back?。
(Band playing)。
Let's have a moment of quiet, just reflect on what we've heard.。
This afternoon, I want to invite you to an ordination service.。
You're all going to be ordained。
as pastors in your field.。
I'm going to pray for you, for the Holy Spirit.。
Just to come.。
If you're comfortable, just stretch your hands out in front of you.。
Holy Spirit, you're already here.。
You've been here all day, moving in our midst.。
But we invite you to come to us now, Lord,。
and anoint us, empower us,。
ordain us as your ministers in the marketplace,。
to be your representative, to be your hands and feet.。
Lord, for those of us that find words difficult, I pray you give us words.。
But for all of us, Lord, you'll help us to be the people of God,。
to act like Jesus, to be the hands and feet of Jesus to our colleagues and our workmates.。
I want to pray a blessing over you.。
May the love of God sustain us in our working.。
May the light of Jesus radiate our thinking and our speaking.。
May the power of the Spirit penetrate all our deliberating.。
May all that is done witness to your presence in our life.。
We want to have a period now where we pray for each other,。
where we open this up.。
I just want to ask, if you were in any of those three groups I mentioned,。
if you're a young person wondering what's next, where is my way in life,。
if you're somewhat older and thinking about a career change,。
or if you're about a job, I'm going to ask you to do something really, really bold now,。
just while we're here.。
Can you just put your hand up because we're going to pray for you,。
if you're in those categories.。
There are people all around the place, right?。
Everybody else, you're on the ministry team.。
Can you look for these people with their hands up as the band play in the background,。
and can you go and pray God's blessing on them?。
Keep your hands up high because we don't want you to miss out on prayer here.。
We're going to come and pray for you now.。
If that's you, we're going to pray for you upper house as well.。
Look for the people around you.。
This is not something for us to opt out of.。
If you're near someone, go and lay hands on them, and pray for them,。
and pray for God to move in their life.。
And we thank you.。
Thank you Lord for what you're doing.。
Let's just step out and pray.。
[music]。
