There is so much that I wonder about.。
The first thing I wonder about, if you were here at the beginning of the service,。
Benedict talked about having a playlist that gets him pumped up for work, right?。
And so I'm like, "What is on that playlist?"。
So I'm wondering about it. You can ask him later.。
And then with Jill's presentation, I was like,。
"I hope that the offering time is not going to be a mess."。
So everybody's going to do the offering in this way.。
It's a lot of thoughts floating through my head.。
But hey, I am excited to kick off this new sermon series today.。
When I was a young professional, 2001, I was working for Morgan Stanley,。
and it was my second job out of university.。
And I really wanted to connect my faith to my work.。
In my first job, I didn't care about that that much,。
but in this job, I really wanted to do it.。
I was in a different place spiritually.。
And my work was a grind.。
I mean, it was not easy work. It was difficult work.。
And I think a lot of you know a lot of our work is not easy, right?。
A lot of work is very difficult.。
And so the ways that I came up with。
of how I can connect my faith with my work were three ways.。
The first one was that I needed to be ethical.。
Not everyone around me was ethical.。
But I felt God asking me, and I think as Christians we should be, right?。
Should be ethical in how I conduct business.。
The second way that I thought of connecting my faith and work was。
I need to make a lot of money so I can be generous,。
so I can give to church, so I can give to NGOs,。
so I can give to missions, organizations.。
And then the third way that I thought I could connect my faith with my work。
was sharing the gospel at work.。
So those were the three ways that I came up with.。
But I have to say, all of these things, they're great things.。
They're wonderful things, and we should do them.。
Do be ethical, right?。
Share the gospel, do all of that.。
But I felt like there must be more.。
There has to be a greater way of integrating my faith and my work.。
But what is it?。
And so a friend of mine, he knew a pastor.。
I didn't know the pastor, and he connected me with him.。
So I met up with the pastor, talked to him about what was going on,。
because I actually was having a little bit of a spiritual crisis around this.。
And then I walked away from the meeting。
with the message that in order to connect my faith and my work,。
I needed to do something additional.。
So it was my work plus something else.。
And that plus something else was running a stewardship seminar。
on finances with biblical principles.。
And so the implicit message was that my work on its own。
did not connect with my faith.。
Now, he didn't say that, and I don't think he ever would have said that,。
but that was the message that I got.。
And so he actually was even very helpful.。
He even connected me with a men's group where I could run finance seminars。
and do things like that.。
But again, deep down in my heart,。
I was like, "There has to be a way of integrating my faith with my work."。
After all, we spend so much time at work that it just has to be more.。
But what is it?。
And I didn't know.。
And perhaps some of you find yourself in that same place。
where you are experiencing that same disconnection in your work。
that you're doing right now,。
where you wonder, "How in the world does this connect with my faith?"。
Is there anything more besides me sharing the gospel。
and doing something extra in addition to what I'm already doing。
to connect my faith and my work?。
And so what I want to do with you in this message,。
I want to explore with you a question.。
The question is this.。
Does God have a greater purpose for work than most of us have ever imagined?。
So that's what we're going to look at.。
I'm really excited about this.。
Today, we are also kicking off this new sermon series。
which we have entitled "Stewarding Our Lives."。
And so in this sermon series,。
we are going to explore things around work, rest,。
and we're going to look at God's Word,。
what God's Word has to say to us.。
Because a lot of times, what shapes our view。
is actually our surrounding culture and not Scripture。
about how we think about these things.。
So I want to give you a little bit of an overview.。
So let's have a look at this.。
So the first topic today, we're going to talk about cultivating,。
and we'll get to what that means.。
Next week, Pastor Chapman, he's going to talk about thorns and thistles.。
Whatever. Good that I'm not preaching that message.。
(Laughter)。
All right. Thistles. There you go.。
Yes.。
Which has to do with that sin does impact our work.。
There's frustration, there's fruitlessness,。
and so he'll unpack that.。
Then we're going to talk about calling.。
You know what God's calling, what is His purpose,。
how do we know that, how do we discern that,。
or do we even need to discern that?。
So we're going to explore that question,。
and then I'm really excited,。
we have the executive director of Branches of Hope,。
and he is going to be sharing, Alex, my German brother,。
and he is going to be sharing about work as having a restorative presence.。
Wherever we are, so excited about that,。
and he'll be doing that in the Cantonese and the English service.。
And then we're going to talk about rest,。
because life is not just about work,。
it's also about enjoying, and a family, and the good labor,。
the things that we've been doing, the fruits of our labor, there you go.。
And then I'm excited, we have Henriette,。
and she's going to be preaching about when work becomes an idol.。
And I think that's a very real thing, and so excited about that,。
and then finally we're going to talk about giving God glory through our work.。
So super excited about this series.。
I believe that God wants to renew,。
or even give us a new vision for what it means to be human.。
And he wants to lead us into a deeper, a fuller,。
a more beautiful, a more hopeful life,。
and give us courage and faith to live into this.。
And I also believe that this whole series, Cumulatively,。
will be a way of how we head into uncharted waters, uncharted territories.。
So I'm excited, and I hope you are as well.。
Yes, thank you, Justin was excited, good.。
One person, woo!。
All right, well, today we're in the book of Genesis.。
Let me set a little bit of context for our message.。
So Genesis, first book of the Bible, deals with creation,。
it deals with the fall, with how sin unravels things,。
and then it deals with redemption, how God starts redeeming。
and starts restoring that which has been broken,。
which has been twisted, which has been damaged.。
And we're going to look at a scripture that's part of the creation narrative,。
and it has a lot to say to us, actually, about a purpose for work.。
And so that's what we're going to be looking at.。
So let me take you to Genesis, chapter 1, verse 26, it says this,。
"Then God said, 'Let us make mankind in our image, in our likeness,。
so that they may rule over the fish and the sea,。
and the birds in the sky, over livestock,。
and all the wild animals,。
and over all the creatures that move along on the ground.'。
So God created mankind in His own image.。
In the image of God, He created them.。
Male and female, He created them.。
God blessed them and said to them,。
'Be fruitful and increase in number, fill the earth and subdue it.。
Rule over the fish and the sea, and the birds in the sky,。
and over every living creature that moves on the ground.'"。
So this is God's word.。
In verse 26, God is talking,。
and He's revealing that His plan is to let us make mankind in our image,。
in our likeness.。
And then in verse 27, we're told by the narrator。
that God acts on what He decided He will do.。
God created mankind in His own image.。
In the image of God, He created them male and female.。
Now, of course, this raises the question,。
what does it mean to be made in the image of God?。
It seems to me like an obvious question,。
but there actually is a lot of discussion,。
and there's a lot around all of that.。
And I want to begin, not to fully answer,。
but to begin talking about this,。
I want to tell you a little bit about the cultural background。
in which these words were spoken,。
which is the ancient Near East.。
And so in Egypt and Mesopotamia,。
there were kings and rulers,。
or high-ranking officials,。
so 0.000001% of the population,。
they were referred to as being in the image of God,。
representing God in this world.。
And so what Genesis is saying here is absolutely radical.。
It's amazing, because he is, Genesis is saying,。
being made in the image of God is not just for the 0.000001%,。
every single person is made in the image of God.。
So we are all royal.。
It's not just one person that is royal,。
every single human being is royal.。
You are kings and queens,。
whether or not you accept that title for yourself,。
or you maybe don't want to share that work with others,。
"Hey, I'm a king."。
But that's what scripture says you are.。
In God's eyes, every person is royal,。
not just a king or a high-ranking official.。
Every person is made in the image of God.。
Men and women all have equal dignity, worth and value.。
And this is not even true in terms of what many cultures say today.。
But this is what God's word said such a long time ago.。
This is what God revealed.。
This is powerful.。
But let's continue unpacking what it means to be made in the image of God.。
Now, theologians and biblical scholars,。
they generally have three perspectives.。
They break it down differently,。
but it's generally three perspectives。
on what it means to be made in the image of God.。
Before I get into them, I'm going to say I think they all have merit.。
I don't think it's like one and not the other.。
I think all of them just round out the picture.。
But I'm going to give you the first two,。
and then the third one I'm going to unpack from our passage.。
So the first one is known as a substantive view.。
And it holds that being made in the image of God。
means that humans possess inherent qualities, attributes, or capacities。
such as reason, morality, or spirituality that reflect God's nature.。
So that means that we're God-like in the sense。
that we have that dimension as part of our being.。
And that's what distinguishes us from the rest of creation.。
So that's what the first view says.。
The second one is what's known as a relational view.。
And that holds that being made in the image of God。
means that we uniquely have the capacity。
for a personal relationship with God。
in a way that other creatures do not have.。
So we're made as relational beings,。
and ultimately we're made for this relationship with God.。
And so that's part of what it means to be made in the image of God.。
But then the third one is known as the functional view.。
And that's the one that's important as today the topic that we're trying to explore.。
So that's why I'm going to unpack this one a little bit more.。
And so in order to unpack that, let me take you to verse 26.。
And it says this, "Let us make mankind in our image and our likeness。
so that we may rule."。
So now we see here that being made in the image of God,。
that there is a connection with ruling.。
And again, it's royal language.。
Like I said, you're kings and you're queens.。
It is royal language.。
And that's how we're meant to relate to creation.。
But I want to unpack with you the word "rule."。
The Hebrew word for "rule" is "rada."。
And it means to have dominion, to rule, to dominate.。
And ultimately what this word is saying is that God has placed you in a position。
as a ruler to represent Him and to represent His purposes.。
So not how you want to rule, but to rule as a representative of God。
with God's good purposes in mind.。
So that's how this part, this functional view,。
starts describing what it means to be in the image of God.。
You are rulers.。
You are meant to represent God and His purposes in this world.。
And so the functional view means being made in the image of God。
entails a specific role humans are given to act as God's representers。
by ruling over creation.。
So that is the third view.。
And so we see that here in verse 26.。
But what I want you to notice here too is that we're in paradise.。
We're in the Garden of Eden.。
And God is creating us.。
For one, the Bible starts off, even the first birth,。
with that God created the heavens and the earth.。
So the Bible starts off with God working.。
And then here it talks about us being created.。
And it also talks about that we are created for this role,。
at least in part.。
It's not everything we're created for, but at least in part,。
we are created to work.。
And so that means that work is actually part of God's good creation,。
of God's good blessings for us.。
Work has always been part of God's purpose for us.。
Now, as I mentioned, Pastor Chapman, he will talk about the challenges,。
the frustrations, the annoyances, the difficulties,。
the fruitlessness with work.。
He got the good topic.。
He gets a complaint next week.。
But work is good.。
It's a blessing from God.。
Now, I don't know what sort of context you grew up in.。
The way I grew up in was work was not talked about as being good,。
where I grew up, not even in my family.。
It was talked about as you're just trying to get through work for the evening.。
You're trying to get through work so you can enjoy the weekend.。
And you're trying to work as hard as you can so that you can have retirement early,。
at age 40, I missed the boat, sorry, too late,。
so that you can live the good life.。
That's the message that I grew up with.。
But that is not a biblical perspective.。
It's context that work is good.。
We are created to do good works.。
And it's part of our makeup.。
And I don't know if you've experienced this.。
I have, where you've been in a period without work.。
And I think when we go through that, we can sense that something is missing.。
Because it's difficult.。
Before I went through it the first time, I thought it would be great.。
It's like, yay, vacation.。
It's not vacation.。
It impacts your mental health, your emotional, physical, spiritual well-being.。
It is tough.。
And I think all of that points, again, to the fact that we are created to work.。
That that is part of God's good purpose for us.。
Now, work might be twisted by sin and by evil,。
and maybe there are situations we need to get out of.。
But fundamentally, it is true that work is good.。
So I thought it was important to clarify that.。
But I want to character further what it means to rule and reign.。
And so we're going to look at verse 28.。
And it says there that God blessed them and said to them,。
"Be fruitful and increase a number.。
Fill the earth and subdue it."。
And so I want to talk quickly about what it means to be fruitful.。
So again, you say that it also talks about ruling,。
so that weird rada comes up here again.。
But it talks about being fruitful, and it talks about subduing,。
and I want to quickly touch on those two things.。
So being fruitful and increasing a number,。
I think in some sense that's straightforward, right?。
Get married, have children.。
But there's actually more to that.。
Because it's not just about having a bunch of individuals spread over the earth.。
It's actually about making civilization.。
It's about society, about filling the earth with community.。
So there's another dimension to it, which doesn't have anything to do。
whether or not you have children or not.。
You can contribute to filling the earth with civilization and community.。
So that's the first thing.。
The second one is subdue.。
And the Hebrew word is "kabas," and it means to subdue,。
to bring into bondage and to violate.。
That is quite an intense word.。
And actually, in the 1960s, there was a paper published。
that accused Christianity of being responsible for the environmental destruction.。
And it refers to this word and this verse.。
Now, of course, that's a misreading and it's read out of context,。
because what this means here is, yes, it's a strong language,。
but you see, God created the world and there is untapped potential.。
The ground needs to be worked to bring forth the purposes that God has for it.。
And so that is what this is referring to.。
And remember, we're God's representative,。
and we need to represent God in a way that honors him.。
So subduing falls within this.。
But let me take you to one more passage,。
and it's in Genesis 2, verse 8 through 15.。
And I'm just going to read 15 for now,。
and then later on I'll comment on some of the other verses.。
And it says this in verse 15, Genesis 2, verse 15.。
"The Lord God took the man and he put him in the garden。
to work it and to take care of it."。
So there is to work it and to take care of it,。
and these are the last two words.。
I know there's a lot of words today.。
These are the last two words that I want to use to characterize。
what it means to rule, what it means to be image bearers of God.。
And then, of course, we're going to tie it all together。
and how this relates to our work, right?。
But the first one I want to talk about, take care, which is shamar.。
And it means to take care, to keep, to watch over, to preserve,。
to protect, to guard, to police, to cultivate, to develop,。
to draw out something's potential.。
Wow, to draw out something's potential.。
Now, if you go back to Genesis 2, 8 through 15,。
there in verses 10 through 14,。
these are verses I always just rushed over reading,。
and even to a point almost like, "Why are they there?"。
You know, a river watering the garden, and it talks about four rivers,。
and then it talks about gold in the ground,。
and aromatic raisins, and onyx.。
Well, in view of us being created in the image of God。
and us being meant to take care of the garden。
and unleashing the untapped potential, wow, this makes sense.。
And what this really means is that God's creation,。
it was not a finished product, but it was a project.。
And that's quite different. A finished product is something that's done.。
But a project is something that needs to be carried forward.。
So God didn't create a finished world,。
he made it so that it would need our work to reach its full potential.。
We're meant to carry forward with these resources。
and all that God has given us to bring it to its full potential,。
to see it fully unfold.。
And God invites us as co-creators,。
of course under him and not in the same capacity,。
but to be rulers who cultivate,。
who make incredible things, beautiful things,。
and who through that bring God glory.。
So God has a future in mind of where this whole world is heading,。
and we are part of bringing this future about.。
And if you actually think of scripture in Genesis 1-2,。
it's the Garden of Eden, what we've been looking at,。
and then you think of Revelations chapter 21 and 22,。
which is the last book of the Bible.。
So one is the first book of the Bible, the other one is the last book of the Bible.。
And it talks about the new Eden,。
which is basically heaven coming down, the new Jerusalem coming down.。
And what's interesting is instead of a garden, it's a city.。
It has been cultivated.。
And there's actually some of those resources that we saw in this verse,。
they're actually being used in that city,。
and they've been shaped and formed.。
So God, part of our calling is to bring to unfolding and to bring full purpose。
this creation that He has placed us in, this garden that He has placed us in.。
And we're meant to be part of this beautiful, this amazing, this incredible work.。
Now, there's a second word, and this is the last one.。
I promise, last word, many words.。
In Genesis 2-15, and that's the word "work."。
You're like, "Why do we need to unpack the word 'work'?"。
Well, in Hebrew, it's "avad."。
And it means the service to God, it means service to people,。
but it also means worship.。
And so our work and worship, they're not two separate ideas.。
Isn't that amazing?。
That the Hebrew word for work and worship is the same word.。
And so when you read throughout Hebrew scripture, through the Old Testament,。
when it talks about word, it is the same word for worship.。
So it shows that there is a thin line between those two things,。
and that they are connected.。
But it's interesting, because earlier with my story,。
I showed how we have totally disconnected them.。
You know, we've bought into the lie that their sacred work,。
being a pastor, being a missionary, working for an NGO,。
running finance seminars, in addition to what you're already doing,。
but God never made that distinction.。
He never made that distinction.。
It's something that we did.。
And it really has cut the feet from underneath us。
to understand our purposes in our workplaces。
that God has placed us in.。
And so for me, when I was working as a financial advisor。
for Morgan Stanley Investing, Personal Institutional Finances,。
now this is part of the cultivating, the ruling work。
that God has entrusted us with.。
It is part of organizing and bringing order out of chaos.。
It is part of moving forward God's creation project。
to something better, something more beautiful.。
And that is worship.。
That is part of the cultivation work.。
So when you care for your family,。
when you create something beautiful,。
when you solve problems at work,。
when you cultivate relationships,。
when you steward the earth,。
you're not just getting things done.。
You're gathering up creation's praise。
and you're offering it back to God as you worship.。
Now that's quite a fancy way of saying something.。
Let me say a little bit about that.。
Psalm 119, verse 1 says,。
"The heavens declare the glory of God."。
Throughout scripture, it talks about that creation。
is worshiping God.。
It gives God praise.。
And so when we do this cultivation work。
with the resources, with ideas, giving meaning to things,。
we're gathering up the worship of creation。
and then we're directing it to God.。
And for some reason, this cultivating and this gathering up,。
it brings God greater glory.。
So when you do your work in this way,。
it brings God a greater glory.。
It gives God worship in your work.。
Isn't that incredible?。
I find that such a beautiful vision for our lives,。
for what it means to be human,。
for what God has purposed us for.。
Now, all of this is known as the cultural mandate.。
So mandate is actually commandment.。
This is something that God commanded us to do, to rule.。
You are commanded to rule.。
You're commanded to be a king and a queen。
in your plot of land and to make something of it。
and to shape it and to form it and to give it meaning,。
to gather up the worship, to enhance the praise,。
the glory of God.。
Now, that's probably not the way that we've been thinking。
about our work, has it?。
Hasn't it been, right?。
But that's what God's word teaches us and shows us。
and is inviting us into.。
So I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
So this brings me back to the question that I asked。
at the beginning of the message.。
Does God have a greater purpose for our work。
than most of us have ever imagined?。
And I think we can start seeing it.。
Of course, there's a lot to unpack even with what I said.。
But I think we can start seeing it,。
that there is a greater purpose for us,。
whether it's paid work or unpaid work.。
You don't have to quit your job.。
You don't have to do an extra seminar。
that is explicitly Christian to do work。
that is worship to God.。
Your work is already connected to your faith.。
Maybe we struggle to see it how.。
Well, then our job is to figure out how this is connected.。
And so we get to carry this project of creation forward。
to its culmination,。
to where there's a new heaven and a new earth.。
What we do now matters.。
Some of the things we do now,。
they will carry forward into God's new world。
through you.。
God wants to bring in the kingdom,。
His reign, His will.。
Wherever you do work that reflects God's will。
for that plot of land,。
you know, the kingdom is coming.。
It is breaking in.。
It is honoring God.。
It's giving Him glory.。
So how do we connect our faith and work?。
How do we connect God's purposes for us with our work?。
Well, I want to give you two things.。
The first one is we need to embrace God's view of work。
and of ourselves.。
Actually, this is a renewal of the mind.。
This is a transformational way of how we need to look at ourselves.。
You are made in the image of God.。
You are made to reign, to cultivate, to shape,。
to bring order out of chaos,。
to give meaning, to make beautiful things,。
new things, to solve problems,。
to shape and form students.。
These students are going to summer school.。
That is part of the beautiful cultivating and shaping work。
that God invites us into.。
But we need to see work that way.。
We need to see ourselves that way.。
So maybe the starting point for you today。
to connect your work with your faith。
is to start seeing what work is。
and what your role is that God has given you in a new light.。
So I have some questions for you.。
What is my current view of work?。
How is God inviting me to align my view more with his word?。
Do I need to repent of a negative view of work。
and replace it with a positive biblical view?。
So that's the first thing.。
The second one is we need to embrace our identity。
as culture makers.。
Now, a culture maker is, yes, it's artists.。
It's musicians who organize, paint pigments,。
and sounds that resonate.。
Resonance?。
I always get it wrong.。
And that is beautiful culture making work.。
But so is when a mother develops a new way of every night。
you're reading a story to your child.。
That is also culture making.。
You're setting a culture.。
When you solve a problem at work,。
when you transform something, when you create a better。
environment with your team that you're working with,。
that is culture making.。
Every one of us is a culture maker.。
You are a culture maker.。
But we need to embrace our role.。
You know, one thing I was thinking about was--。
so I'm a girl dad, and I'm very proud of it.。
And my little girl is two years old,。
and she's drawing kind of--。
let's call it circles and lines.。
But she is so proud, and she delights in her work.。
And I believe one of the reasons why that is is。
that we have to embrace our role.。
I believe one of the reasons why that is so。
is because she is created to be a culture maker.。
She's created to make things.。
And when she does that, it brings her delight and joy.。
And it's the same for us.。
That's why doing a good job feels so good.。
That's why solving a problem feels so good.。
That's why completing a project feels so good.。
Because we're made for this.。
It's part of who God made us.。
And so some questions we can ask ourselves。
is, what good can I make or cultivate here,。
where God has placed you?。
How can I contribute to the world's and people's。
flourishing?。
How can I move this project along, God's good project,。
in my plot of land?。
Now, we don't do all of this out of our own strength.。
We do this by the power of Jesus,。
because he died for our sins, and he rose.。
And all who believe in him, they are new creations.。
There is a restoration of who we are.。
And it allows us to more fully live out。
the potential for what we can do.。
To more fully live out the potential for which God。
has created us.。
And so we can rely on God's grace,。
and God can do immeasurably more through you, the culture。
maker, than you can imagine.。
But my question is, are we going to believe God?。
Are we going to go for it?。
Are we going to embrace that role?。
I'm going to leave you with one question.。
What if the uncharted territory for many of us。
isn't a new destination, but a new way of understanding。
God's purpose for our work?。
What if God wants to do something radically beautiful。
and new through you as you embrace your role as image。
of bearers of God, as rulers, as representers。
in your sphere of influence?。
So church, I want to invite you to stand.。
I want to pray over us.。
Jesus, I thank you so much for all。
that you've been doing in our community.。
I thank you for every single person here。
that is made in your image.。
I thank you that there is more to our work。
that you are inviting us into, that it。
doesn't have to be so disconnected from our faith,。
our Mondays through Saturdays.。
Like, you have a purpose for us, and we。
can worship you through that as we。
learn to embrace a role that you have given us.。
And Lord, so I--。
you know where everyone's on this journey.。
I pray that you would meet us, that you would lead us。
to the Holy Spirit and to the beautiful, good purposes。
you have for us.。
And I pray that you will do immeasurably more。
as we shape culture, as we use whatever。
is on our plot of land to bring you glory,。
to gather up your creation's worship, and to turn it to you.。
And I pray that you give us the--。
that you touch us by your spirit to actually work this out,。
to not just let this be, oh, that。
was a nice way of looking at things。
and move on with our regular.。
Lord, but I pray that you lead us in uncharted territory,。
and that we get to know you in a new way.。
And Lord, I also want to pray for those of us who。
are struggling with work and finding work or finding。
meaningful work, whether paid or unpaid, Lord.。
And I pray for your provision.。
I pray that we can help each other,。
that we can connect each other to places of work.。
And so I also lift up those that are in need of that right now.。
So we love you, Lord, and we want。
to worship you through our work and also through our song.。
And I pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
