God, and in Jesus' name we pray.。
Amen.。
>> Amen, thank you Jess.。
I think once a year I kick a football around,。
so considering that it was a really good day actually.。
No injuries, it was really fun.。
Well, you know, a lot of times people ask you,。
how did you first become a pastor?。
When did you start your journey?。
And so let me tell you a little bit about that.。
I started my journey into full-time ministry。
as a youth pastor.。
And back then I was serving the church I grew up in。
over in Kowloon Tong.。
I see Paco right there actually.。
You was in my youth group.。
Okay, well I'm talking about you, okay Paco.。
Anyway, so I was the youth pastor for a little while.。
And youth work is a great way to get to know。
how to do ministry.。
And one of the things I got to do was to take。
youth groups on mission trips.。
And so this was about 17 years ago.。
I was just a kid back then.。
So I was like a big kid taking some little kids。
to a foreign country, a place I didn't know the language,。
I didn't know the people to serve a group.。
I didn't even really know who I was connecting with.。
It's amazing that the parents allowed this all to happen。
in the first place, right?。
But it was a really good trip actually overall.。
But on the first night when we got there,。
we were looking for a place to have dinner.。
Okay, actually we were in Hainan Island.。
This is when I discovered that Hainanese chicken rice。
is not really from Hainan Island, okay.。
Amongst many other things.。
So we were looking for a place to have dinner.。
I was walking around with me and a bunch of about。
12 other kids, teenagers, preteens.。
And so we found this place, right.。
It was a cheap hot pot place.。
So I thought, perfect, you know.。
Hong Kong kids, cheap hot pot, perfect place for dinner.。
Right, and so we decided to have dinner there.。
And when we walked in, we discovered actually。
it's a all you can eat place.。
So yeah, right, we love that, right.。
But how it worked was you get one visit to the buffet table,。
you get as much food as you want,。
and you can bring it back to the table,。
and that was your dinner.。
Okay, so we were all there having good time。
and eating away, and there was one kid though。
who got way too much food.。
Like it was just like a ridiculous amount of food.。
Do you remember back in the day,。
or back when I was growing up, Pizza Hut, right,。
had the salad bar, right.。
Oh, Pizza Hut salad bar, right.。
Me going out for Pizza Hut was like, yes, you know,。
Saitan, you know, white people food, right.。
This is amazing, okay.。
But that salad bar, right, you got that really flimsy,。
brown, like bamboo-ish sort of bowl, do you remember that?。
Right, and there was whole art to like。
building up the salad, right.。
So you put like the potatoes at the bottom。
to get like a foundation, right.。
Stick some cucumbers on the side。
so you could like widen the bowl a little bit, right.。
And people would come back,。
and it was like this huge tower of salad, right.。
But in the end, like, it just got wasted。
'cause it was disgusting.。
It was like Thousand Island sauce。
over like pineapples and raisins,。
and like all this random stuff mashed together.。
It was disgusting.。
No one actually liked the salad,。
and I think they just like seeing how tall。
they could make that tower, right,。
and bringing it back to the table.。
Well, that's kind of what happened, right.。
This kid got all this food, right.。
There was so much, so much food that he got.。
He couldn't finish it all.。
And so I got really upset.。
I was like, what are we gonna do, right?。
You've wasted all this food.。
But then I also thought to myself,。
okay, there's a teachable moment here, all right.。
How am I gonna make this into a life lesson, right?。
So it's a true story.。
This is what I did.。
I told the young guy, he's like,。
dude, like what happened?。
You just wasted all this food.。
And he said to me, yeah, I thought。
it was all you can eat, Allison.。
So well, yeah, all you can eat。
doesn't mean all you can waste, okay.。
So like, what are we gonna do about this?。
You know, you didn't eat the food.。
You're gonna have to pay for it now.。
And he starts to panic.。
He's like, well, I didn't do anything wrong, right.。
You said it was all you can eat.。
I'm just gonna put the food back.。
He's like, dude, that's disgusting, okay.。
Do not put the food back, okay.。
It's at the table now, all right.。
Something's gotta happen.。
And he said, what's gonna happen?。
So I told him, okay, well, the manager's gonna come.。
He's gonna weigh all the food.。
And according to how much it weighs,。
you're gonna have to pay the penalty。
for wasting all this food.。
And then he really starts to panic.。
So how much money are you gonna have to pay?。
Like, my mom didn't give me that much pocket money.。
You know, I've been planning to spend on some souvenirs.。
Like, I don't have it.。
Like, what am I gonna do?。
So I told him, okay, the only way you can get out of this。
is if you go to the manager。
and you beg him for forgiveness, okay.。
Beg him for forgiveness.。
Maybe he'll just let you go.。
He's panicking, okay, where is he?。
So I point to a gentleman。
sitting on the other side of the restaurant, okay.。
That's the manager sitting right there, right.。
Now, I've just pointed to a random guy。
minding his business, okay.。
He's there having dinner with his family, right.。
Because the truth was, there was no manager, okay.。
It was mad at him.。
I, just like I said, teachable moment.。
I wanted to teach him a lesson to not to waste food.。
Right, so this boy, he stands there for a minute, right.。
And he's like sweating bullets.。
He's like rehearsing what he's gonna say.。
You know, practicing his Mandarin.。
He's like, (mimics Mandarin)。
Right, and so, and then he really like, you know,。
coyly walks up to this man, taps him on the shoulder,。
and he just starts going for it.。
I'm really sorry, I've ate all this food, you know.。
I don't have money to pay, please forgive me, right.。
And this man's just staring blankly at him like,。
why is this kid like confessing。
all his sins to me right now, you know.。
And then anyway, I was standing in the corner。
also crying, but with laughter, right.。
Like, I'm not saying it was a good thing or a bad thing,。
I don't know, but no more food was wasted that trip.。
We'll say it like that, okay.。
So, now of course, you know, that's a bit of a funny story.。
But in a way, we sort of, we've all been there, right,。
in that moment.。
Like that moment when we realize we've done something wrong。
and the guilt and the shame and the fear。
that comes with that.。
And then you have this reaction。
of trying to make things right.。
Realizing then, actually, there is nothing I can do。
to make it right.。
The only thing left for me to do is to ask for forgiveness。
and hope that forgiveness is offered to us.。
You know, we're at the tail end of the year already,。
believe it or not.。
And we have Advent starting soon.。
But before Advent, this is our last sermon series。
of the year.。
And actually, this sermon series was born。
out of a heart cry of the community, I believe.。
And you may remember a few months ago,。
we did an event called Converse.。
And at Converse, we set up prayer stations。
up at a high school, you know, just up the hill.。
And there was a big hall and there was all these different,。
amazing prayer stations, different ways for us。
to interact with prayer.。
And one of the stations was to do with forgiveness, right.。
It was either asking, you know, prayer requests。
to give forgiveness or to receive forgiveness.。
And as we looked through the prayer requests。
that were written out, we realized, right,。
this is a theme that so many of us are struggling with。
in our community.。
Many of these had to do with relationships, right.。
People asking for the strength to be able to forgive people。
that have hurt them in different ways.。
There were also many voices asking for forgiveness。
because they have been the ones who have caused harm。
and hurt to other people.。
A lot of written on there was to, you know,。
about forgiving ourselves, right.。
The different things that we struggle with,。
asking God for forgiveness.。
And in some ways, there was also a lot of requests。
asking for, you know, to be able to forgive God, right.。
Because people have felt like God has let them down.。
They put their faith in God and they felt like God。
had let them down.。
And I feel like I need to forgive God in some way.。
And so since this was a topic that so many of us。
were wrestling with, we figured it was time。
to address this together as a church.。
Because the truth is, we all need, everyone needs。
to come to a good understanding of what forgiveness is,。
of what forgiveness is and what it's supposed to look like。
because forgiveness sits at the center of God's heart.。
And forgiveness is essential for our relationship with God.。
In fact, without forgiveness, there would be no relationship。
with God possible, right.。
At the same time, forgiveness is also essential。
for us to be in relationship and in community。
with each other.。
Without forgiveness, not even this church, right,。
society itself would totally break down。
and we would never be able to do life。
and to connect with each other.。
But at the same time, as we've experienced,。
it's not that simple.。
Right, because forgiveness is nuanced。
with so many different questions and feelings and emotions.。
And over these next few weeks, we're gonna face。
some of these questions head on.。
We're gonna be talking about some theological framework。
about what forgiveness is from the biblical perspective.。
We're gonna be looking at some very practical ways。
of how we can forgive, what forgiveness is。
and what forgiveness isn't.。
We're gonna hear testimonies from our community groups。
about how forgiveness has been such an enriching part。
of their relationship with each other.。
We're gonna talk about what it means。
for us to forgive ourselves.。
And in the end, the hope is we're gonna be equipped。
to be live out, to be walking out,。
to live a life that is defined by forgiveness.。
And so to start us on our journey today,。
I want to look at a passage that teaches us,。
you know, that I think really Jesus uses this passage。
to highlight just how important forgiveness is。
from his perspective and how he hopes。
his followers will respond to it.。
Okay, we're looking at Matthew chapter 18, verses 21 to 35.。
I'm gonna read it and you can follow along.。
Then Peter came to Jesus and asked,。
"Lord, how many times shall I forgive my brother or sister。
"who sins against me?。
"Up to seven times?"。
Jesus answered, "I tell you, not seven times, but 77 times.。
"Therefore, the kingdom of heaven is like a king。
"who wanted to settle accounts with his servants.。
"As he began the settlement, a man who owed him。
"10,000 bags of gold was brought to him.。
"Since he was not able to pay, the master ordered。
"that he and his wife and his children。
"and all that he had to be sold to repay the debt."。
Excuse me.。
"At this, the servant fell on his knees before him.。
"Be patient with me, he begged,。
"and I will pay back everything.。
"The servant's master took pity on him,。
"canceled the debt, and let him go.。
"But when that servant went out,。
"he found one of his fellow servants。
"who owed him 100 silver coins.。
"He grabbed him and began to choke him.。
"'Pay back what you owe me,' he demanded.。
"His fellow servant fell to his knees and begged him,。
"'Be patient with me, and I will pay it back.'。
"But he refused.。
"Instead, he went off and had the man thrown into prison。
"until he could pay the debt.。
"When the other servants saw what had happened,。
"they were outraged and went to tell the master。
"everything that had happened.。
"The master then called the servant in.。
"'You wicked servant,' he said.。
"'I canceled all that debt of yours。
"'because you begged me to.。
"'Shouldn't you have had mercy on your fellow servant。
"'just as I had on you?'。
"In his anger, the master handed him over to the jailers。
"to be tortured until he should pay back all that he owed.。
"This is how my heavenly Father will treat each of you。
"unless you forgive your brother or sister from your heart."。
Challenging words.。
I think one of the reasons why it's challenging。
is because when we talk about forgiveness,。
initially, it's sort of like a counterproductive thing。
to do, we feel like.。
It feels foreign to our natural inclinations.。
It's unnatural.。
Maybe that's just me.。
But when we're hurt, when we're wronged,。
we don't want to forgive.。
What we want is revenge.。
What we want is revenge because we think revenge,。
getting this person back, is gonna make us feel better.。
On a micro level, this happens all the time,。
especially in Hong Kong.。
We Hong Kongers, super good at passive,。
aggressive forms of revenge.。
You go into MTR, someone steps on the back of your shoe.。
So in the end, you find them down in the MTR。
and then you bump them with your bag。
just so you can get them back from stepping on your shoes.。
Yes, feels so good to do that.。
Don't ride the MTR with me.。
But what happens, that's just a silly, trivial thing.。
What happens, though, when the stakes are a bit higher?。
What kind of revenge goes through your mind。
when you think about maybe the person。
who's caused you really hurtful wounds?。
They've hurt you in almost a devastating kind of way.。
How do you pay back the friend who stabbed you in the back,。
who betrayed you?。
What about the spouse or the partner that cheats on you?。
The business partner who runs off with all your money?。
A parent who abused you?。
A person who assaulted you?。
A boss or a coworker who humiliates you?。
How do we react in those kind of situations?。
I think revenge is the sort of mentality。
that Peter is bringing here before Jesus.。
When he asked the question, "Lord, how many times。
"shall I forgive my brother or sister who sins against me?"。
Up to seven times.。
Right, it's such typical Peter behavior in the Bible。
and I love how accurate and how honest the Bible is。
when it comes to the flaws of the disciples.。
So close yet so far.。
He seems to understand, yes, okay,。
maybe forgiveness is kind of necessary,。
but maybe it should also have a limit.。
And so when Peter says up to seven times,。
from his perspective, this is going above and beyond。
what he was supposed to do.。
In Jewish culture, seven is the perfect number.。
So by Peter saying seven, Peter is saying,。
yes, seven, if seven is surely more than enough.。
After I've done, I'm forgiven seven times,。
after I've done God's will, I should be able。
to take the situation into my own hands, right?。
Or maybe you can look at it like this.。
I had an uncle who told me one time that,。
you know what, Ellison, Jesus only says。
you have to turn the cheek one time.。
If you turn the cheek and he hits you again,。
you have permission to slap the snot out of that person.。
[congregation laughing]。
That's not true, by the way.。
But that's sort of like the vibe,。
the energy that Peter is bringing into his question.。
Right, and honestly, if we were honest with ourselves。
or when I'm honest with myself,。
I wish sometimes that's the answer that Jesus gave, right?。
Permission to fight back.。
He would have said something like, yes, you know what,。
seven times, that's more than enough, Peter.。
Right, on the eighth time, you know, throw hands,。
you know, do what you want to do.。
But he doesn't.。
Instead, his response is a deep challenge to his followers。
on how we are supposed to forgive.。
Jesus answered, I tell you not seven times, but 77 times.。
Now again, it's not a formula, right?。
Jesus is not saying on the 78th time,。
you can do something about it yourself.。
What Jesus means here is that there is no limit.。
There is not supposed to be a limit。
to the number of times you should offer forgiveness.。
In other words, if you really want to do God's will,。
don't even think about counting, just forgive.。
Now that, my friends, is a hard pill to swallow。
because it sounds like we're just supposed to be helpless.。
Right, it almost sounds like forgiveness is cheapened,。
right, it sounds as though Jesus is giving permission。
for people just to walk all over us,。
do whatever they want to hurt us,。
and there's not a single thing we can do about it.。
All we have to do is just keep forgiving。
and forgiving and forgiving.。
But what if, and I'm sure many of this people room have。
and many people listening have,。
what if we've been hurt in the most horrible of ways?。
Does God just expect me to let it go and to forget about it?。
Is this what it means to forgive?。
Because if so, it doesn't sound like。
it's very healthy for us, right?。
It doesn't sound healthy for us to live life that way,。
for the community to practice forgiveness that way.。
This is not what Jesus means.。
And so he tries to explain this with a parable a little bit。
to illustrate the point.。
And he says it like this.。
This is the story.。
Therefore, the kingdom of heaven is like a king。
who wanted to settle accounts with his servants.。
As he began the settlement, a man who owed him。
10,000 bags of gold was brought to him.。
Since he was not able to pay, the master ordered。
that he and his wife and his children。
and all that he had be sold to repay the debt.。
Now this is that word debt.。
Debt is such a scary word.。
The word itself almost sounds heavy, right?。
You know what I mean?。
It's a sort of word that can fill with dread。
and panic and anxiety.。
In my context, it's kind of sad.。
The only letters and phone calls I have these days。
is either people telling them, I owe the money,。
so the credit card bill comes in。
or the electricity bill comes in,。
school fees, taxes, overdue living charges,。
all that kind of stuff, right?。
So it's, I owe you money, you're in debt to me,。
I'll listen in this, right?。
Or it's invitations to get into even more debt, right?。
Say, hi, you know, it's like,。
you know, you're in trauma and typhoon, blah, blah, blah,。
all that kind of stuff, all those phone calls。
that you get, okay?。
Do you need to borrow money?。
Do you speak Chinese?。
Do you speak English?。
Okay, those kind of calls.。
So debt is scary.。
The scary thing about debt is because it carries。
with it consequences.。
When you don't pay back your debt,。
there are consequences to your actions.。
And this is what we see happening。
in this opening scene of this story.。
We're told that this man, right,。
is in an unbelievable amount of debt.。
10,000 bags of gold, right?。
This is a crazy, ridiculous amount of money, right?。
Some of the research I was doing, some of the commentaries,。
this would be the equivalent of billions。
or maybe even like a made up number,。
like gazillions, okay, about of dollars.。
But Jesus was doing this on purpose, right?。
He purposely uses an exaggeration to make a point.。
A massive amount of money, there is no way in heaven。
or on earth that this guy will ever able。
to pay back this amount.。
Not even if he lives a million lifetimes。
would he be able to pay back this amount of money.。
And so it spells out the consequence.。
The consequence would be that he would have to sell himself,。
his wife, and his children, and everything that he owed。
to repay the debt.。
Now, I think in order for us to truly understand。
forgiveness from God's heart, we have to imagine ourselves。
in this situation a little bit.。
Because the truth is, like this man who was caught up。
in debt to the king, to his master, we are also in debt.。
But our debt is owed to the king of kings, to God himself.。
And we are in debt to God because of our sin.。
Every single person is.。
Scripture tells us all have sinned and fallen short。
of the glory of God.。
And scripture also tells us the reality is,。
the wages, the debt, the consequences of sin is death.。
Now, this is an idea we're gonna unpack。
a bit more clarity next week.。
But essentially, it means that every one of us,。
no matter who we are, we have all sinned against God.。
And because we have sinned against God,。
we owe him an insurmountable amount of debt。
that we will never, ever, ever be able to pay back.。
And because of this debt, God indeed has the right。
to demand everything from us, including our lives.。
Now, if the story ended here, it would be a bit sad,。
but justifiable, right?。
We owe this, this is the situation without fail,。
every single person is in.。
But the good news, the gospel is that this isn't。
where the story ends, right?。
And so Jesus tries to illustrate this in the way。
the master responds to his servant.。
At this, the servant fell on his knees before him.。
"Be patient with me," he begged,。
"and I will pay everything back."。
The servant's master took pity on him,。
"Cancel the debt and let him go."。
This man realizes, right, his inevitable doom.。
And he tries to do everything in his own power.。
He falls to his knees, he begs for surrender,。
he asks for patience and mercy, he literally begs,。
"I'm gonna pay you back."。
He makes promises that he cannot keep.。
It's almost like a pathetic and hopeless pleading.。
But remember, right, there is no way, this man knows。
there's no way he can pay back the gazillion dollars。
he owes his master.。
And I found that sometimes that's the kind of situation。
we find ourselves in too.。
But when we realize our sin, when we realize。
how much in debt we are to God because of our sin,。
we end up promising God this and that, right?。
"I'm gonna be better, I'm gonna fix myself,。
"I'm gonna try and be better.。
"I'm never gonna do that again,。
"I'm never gonna do this again."。
But what I found in my life is that the more I try,。
even though I try and I try and I try,。
the harder I try, it's almost like the harder we fail.。
And I've slowly come to the realization。
that through our own power, through our own will,。
we will never, ever, ever, ever be able。
to pay back the debt of sin.。
And the master realizes this and God realizes this.。
And even though he has the right and authority。
to divine some sort of payment,。
something really beautiful happens.。
This phrase, "The servant's master took pity on him."。
The word pity here means like love actually。
and compassion.。
Not because the servant has done anything。
to deserve a pardon, but because of the master's heart。
of love and compassion, the debt is canceled。
and he is set free.。
And considering the amount of debt he was owed,。
this was unimaginable, right?。
The listeners of Jesus's time listening to this,。
were like, "This guy must be crazy。
"to just let all that money go."。
But this is the master saying,。
"What matters to me is not the amount of money。
"that he owes, I'm trying to demonstrate my heart。
"of grace, of mercy, of compassion, and of love."。
And the servant walks away in freedom.。
And this is Jesus reminding us, right?。
This is an echo of God's message of forgiveness of sin.。
Actually, this is a message that God has said。
time and time and time again.。
We see God's heart to forgive.。
Throughout the Old Testament even, Isaiah 43, 25,。
"I will blot out your transgressions."。
Jeremiah 31, 34, "I will forgive their wickedness。
"and remember their sins no more."。
Psalm 103, 12, one of my favorite passages,。
"As far the east is from the west,。
"so far has he removed our transgressions from us."。
This is our starting point, church.。
Never forget this.。
God's heart is one that is inclined towards forgiveness.。
His heart is one of compassion and of love.。
This is what we were singing over and over。
and over again this morning, right?。
His heart is that despite the fact that we have wronged him,。
we have disappointed him, we have sinned in our lives,。
we have missed the mark, we have gone against his will,。
despite that many times we make a mess of things,。
God still looks on us with love and compassion, amen?。
And God loved us so much,。
he gave us his most precious gift, his son,。
as the only way to repay the debt of sin,。
God gave us his son, paying the debt of our sins。
so that we can have relationship with him.。
Again, this is something we're gonna talk more about。
next week and in the weeks to come.。
But what we need to understand for today is this,。
is we who worship the true God are a people。
who have had all their debt forgiven。
because our master loves us.。
Forgiveness, therefore, is important。
because it's the key not just to this life,。
but to eternal life as well.。
This is what I mean when I say forgiveness。
sits at the very heart of God。
and encapsulates all that he came to do,。
was to offer forgiveness for you, for me,。
for anyone who asks of it.。
If you are a follower of Jesus in this room today,。
you are free because you have received God's forgiveness.。
Now, as a people who've understood。
and experienced this wonderful gift of forgiveness,。
you would think that we would now want to share。
this gift with others as well,。
like last week when we were talking about the gospel.。
But again, it's hard and it's complicated.。
It doesn't always work this way.。
And for the servant on this story,。
we find that though, even though he is the one。
who has experienced the forgiveness of a great debt,。
his own heart remains unchanged.。
It tells us this, but when that servant went out,。
he found one of his fellow servants。
who owed him 100 silver coins.。
He grabbed him and began to choke him.。
"Pay back what you owe me," he demanded.。
His fellow servant fell to his knees and begged him,。
"Be patient with me and I will pay it back."。
But he refused.。
Instead, he went off and had that man thrown in prison。
until he could pay the debt.。
You see, when this man encounters someone who owes him money,。
his heart is not full of compassion.。
He remains tight-fisted and stingy about what he's owed.。
100 silver coins, okay, I said just now,。
you know that 10,000 bags of gold was like a gazillion。
dollars, 100 silver coins would have been about maybe。
the equivalent of four months' wages,。
the Bible scholars say.。
Not a small sum in and of itself,。
but not insurmountable as well.。
But compared to what he owed, completely insignificant.。
And this dialogue that he has, it's almost an exact replica。
of what just happened with him and his master.。
There's a debt, there's a falling to the knees,。
begging for patience and mercy.。
But like I said, the difference is that there's no mention。
of compassion from this servant's heart.。
Instead, it's the opposite.。
Listen to this term, he said he refused.。
When it says refused, this word means to sort of like。
harden his heart, right?。
He made a conscious decision in his mind,。
I am not willing, I'm going to make a choice。
not to forgive this person.。
And actually, it gets even worse.。
Not only does he refuse, but he tries to take actions。
into his own hands.。
He escalates.。
He purposely, first of all, goes out of his way。
to seek out this person who owes him.。
And when he finds him, it says he physically abuses him.。
He grabs him and he chokes him.。
He takes matters into his own hands.。
As you read this story, you probably, as I was,。
judging this guy right now.。
Well, how evil, how wicked is this man。
that he would do something like this?。
Now, before we get too judgmental of the servant,。
and as uncomfortable as this might make us,。
maybe we need to lean into this part of the story。
a little bit.。
And I found it helpful, instead of judging it。
from the outside, to use this scenario more like a mirror。
to check my own attitude toward forgiveness.。
Maybe it's a bit more like this servant。
than we think it is.。
Because like I said just now, when we've been sinned against。
our first reaction is more likely inclined towards revenge.。
We want to see people suffer and get what they deserve。
when they sin against us.。
I admit to you, in my own heart, this is often what I feel.。
I want to be able to enjoy all of God's forgiveness.。
Yes, I want to be able to come to God,。
ask for his forgiveness, and receive his compassion。
and mercy and grace.。
But sometimes when people sin against me,。
my first reaction is not, "Father, forgive them."。
My reaction is, "I hope they suffer.。
"I hope God punished them for what they did to me.。
"In fact, I hope they first, you know,。
"they experience 10 times worse than what they did to me.。
"That's what they deserve."。
I know I'm not alone in this.。
But this is precisely why this whole series。
and this conversation on forgiveness is important。
for us to have together.。
Because now Jesus starts to talk about the consequences,。
about debt, when we don't forgive.。
Jesus seems to be saying, "Unless you learn to forgive。
"that you have been forgiven,。
"there are gonna be consequences.。
"And these consequences affect both the wider community,。
"but also your own relationship with God as well."。
Let me tell you how it leaves a strain。
on the community, first of all.。
When the other servants saw what had happened,。
they were outraged and went and told their master。
everything that has happened, that had happened.。
All right, this is why I said。
this is a heart cry of the church.。
This is why I said we're gonna take this journey together。
as a community, as a body of Christ,。
as a family of brothers and sisters.。
Because often when we talk about forgiveness,。
we tend to look at it individualistically.。
That's just between two people.。
It doesn't concern the rest of the community.。
So let's say me and Derek here had beef.。
We had a problem with each other.。
If people find out, just leave the Eric and,。
Ellison and Derek can figure that out by themselves,。
it doesn't concern us.。
But actually it does.。
I think as a body of Christ, we all need to agree。
that forgiveness is a poison.。
And that if we don't deal with it,。
there is no way we can ever be the body of Christ。
that he has called us to be.。
How are we supposed to walk alongside each other。
if we're not willing to forgive?。
How are we supposed to grow in intimacy。
if we hold grudges against each other?。
How are we gonna encourage each other。
if we keep account of what's right and what's wrong?。
Every time we've wronged and right,。
we keep an account of the rights and wrongs.。
Therefore, as a community, we need to be aware of this.。
And as a community, if we see unforgiveness taking place,。
we need to do something about it。
so it doesn't corrupt the rest of the body of Christ.。
We need to call it out.。
What also points out is the community then,。
it's supposed to be a place of safety。
and of accountability.。
You see, if no one else had got involved,。
the servant would have got away with his actions.。
He would have got away with abusing his debtor,。
having him thrown in jail,。
punished for something like that.。
But notice, it was the other servants。
who called him out of his sin.。
It was the other servants, the community around him。
that flagged to the master,。
hey, something isn't quite right here.。
And we need to do and say something about it.。
So when it comes to forgiveness,。
we see forgiveness and justice。
is something that actually go hand in hand with each other.。
Forgiveness doesn't mean that one's causing harm。
can just get away with it.。
But forgiveness is what happens when a community,。
when somebody is wrong and the community around you。
comes around you to support you,。
to give you strength and power to confront the wrong。
and it's voiced out.。
You see what I'm saying?。
Community, I mean, forgiveness doesn't mean saying。
it really didn't happen, right?。
It really doesn't matter, just let it go, right?。
In either of those cases, if it didn't matter,。
you just let it go, you don't need forgiveness, right?。
Maybe it's just a misunderstanding。
that needs to be cleared up.。
But forgiveness is the process when we admit,。
yes, something did happen.。
It did matter, something has gone wrong。
and we need to deal with it.。
And we deal with it together as a body of Christ.。
But the way we deal with it is to hand it over to God,。
to say we're not God.。
We don't get to set the standard of who is worthy。
of forgiveness or who is not.。
We simply offer forgiveness first。
because without that, we will never be able to move on。
as individuals and as a community.。
So that's how it affects us together as a body of Christ.。
On the same time though, it has an individual impact。
on us as well.。
And God spells out very clearly。
the results of withholding forgiveness.。
Then the master called the servant in.。
You wicked servant, he said.。
I canceled all that debt of yours because you begged me to.。
Shouldn't you have had mercy on your fellow servant。
just as I had on you?。
In his anger, the master handed him over to the jailers。
to be tortured until he should pay back all that he owed.。
This is how my heavenly father will treat each of you。
unless you forgive your brother or sister from your heart.。
Again, this sounds harsh.。
But I think the point Scripture is trying to make is this.。
It might seem like when we don't offer forgiveness。
that we hold onto the power, that we hold onto the control.。
But when in reality, what Jesus is saying。
is when we withhold forgiveness,。
it's actually a great detriment to us.。
It seems like the other person。
is getting what they deserve.。
But in reality, what we're doing is condemning ourselves.。
You might know the old saying,。
unforgiveness is like drinking a poison。
and expecting the other person to die.。
Right, so it has really, really serious consequences。
for ourselves if we withhold forgiveness.。
Maybe you could think about it this way.。
All right, we're gonna do a little exercise together.。
Okay, on the count of three,。
I want everybody to take a deep breath.。
When you take a deep breath,。
hold it in for as long as you can.。
Try and hold your breath.。
One, two, three.。
Some of us might be able to do this for longer.。
But you're probably feeling a struggle to breathe now,。
right, to breathe out that breath.。
Right, none of us, nobody in this room。
is able to hold their breath forever.。
You would either pass out,。
or if you really did just stop breathing altogether,。
you would die.。
In order for you to take your next breath,。
you have to release the breath you're holding.。
And so it is with forgiveness.。
If we want to receive forgiveness,。
we need to be able to release forgiveness to others as well.。
Like I said, though, this is the starting point.。
Right, this is just the introduction to this journey.。
And there's no way we can unpack and discover。
all the things that forgiveness means for us。
in one short sermon on a Sunday morning.。
So I want to encourage everybody here.。
Please try to come along, right,。
to the next few messages that we have,。
to the next few Sundays that we have。
in this journey of forgiveness.。
And this is not about, you know,。
like maintaining numbers at the Vine。
or anything like that, right, it's not about that.。
But what this is, is it's for your wholeness.。
It's for your understanding.。
It's for you to really be able to embrace。
what forgiveness means,。
so you can walk in the freedom of forgiveness.。
After all, Jesus taught us to pray.。
Forgive our sins as we forgive those。
who have sinned against us.。
And my heart is, as individuals, but also as a community,。
we will embrace this journey of forgiveness together.。
To step by step, learn what it means。
to receive and to give out。
what forgiveness really means in God's heart.。
This is how we build, continue the kingdom of God。
here on this earth.。
So would you pray with me as we start this journey together?。
Jesus, we know that this is an issue。
that many of us are wrestling with.。
And even if we're not wrestling with it right at this moment。
there is gonna come a time where we've been wronged。
and we need to offer forgiveness.。
Or someone wrongs us, or we wrong someone else。
and we need to be forgiven.。
And so Lord, I thank you that.。
Our starting point, Lord, is that you have already。
poured forgiveness out for us.。
That you have offered forgiveness to us despite our sin,。
despite the ways that we've missed the mark。
when it comes to being in relationship with you, Lord.。
You've given us everything we need.。
Your most precious gift so that we can have forgiveness.。
Lord, as we receive this gift, Lord,。
we hear that you've also asked us to pour it out。
to those who have wronged us.。
And I know this is a hard journey for some of us to take.。
You know, you might be thinking right now,。
if you only knew the pain that I've been through,。
what this person did to me, how that person hurt me.。
And Father, we know that you meet us。
in those areas of pain.。
(soft music)。
And so Jesus, I pray that through your gentle guidance。
in the way that only you know how you would teach us。
how to forgive.。
That as we embrace forgiveness in our own hearts,。
it would soften our hearts.。
And as we learn to live a life defined by forgiveness,。
we will reflect your gospel, your grace,。
your mercy to everybody.。
And that even together as a community,。
we can keep encouraging each other in this journey.。
Keep encouraging each other to not keep things hidden,。
but to bring it out into the light when there's been sin,。
when there's been wrong in the community.。
We will not let that just be swept under the carpet.。
But Lord, because we know the proper way。
to deal with these things, we can walk with it together.。
And that this forgiveness that we offer to each other。
reflects, truly reflects the heart that you have for us.。
So Lord, be with us in these next few weeks。
as we walk through this.。
Encourage us, strengthen us, guide us.。
We pray this in Jesus' name, amen.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
