I just also want to say that you're not able to plant a church unless your spouse is a supporter, so thank you, Chris.。
I love you.。
Well, hey, I want to update you on the amazing and incredible things that God has been doing in Yuen Long.。
So for those of you who don't know, in 2022, during the pandemic, we announced that we're planting a church.。
And then in 2023, we, with a launch team of 35 people, we moved to Yuen Long and we started meeting in a preschool that was in the middle of nowhere.。
And then in October 1st, 2023, we had our public launch.。
And so since then, we've been running in an amazing, incredible new venue that you helped make possible.。
So also thank you at this point for your generosity.。
If you haven't had a chance to come see it, you're always welcome to stop by and visit.。
We would love to have you.。
And so, yeah, but I want to share with you through pictures what's been happening.。
So let me share with you the first photo.。
So here, what you see right there is the church and they're praying for the children.。
The children are part of our worship.。
We have a lot of families.。
We love our families.。
And so that has been incredible.。
And I want to give a little bit statistics.。
Now, church planting, it's always about people and individual stories.。
But I think the statistics also say something.。
So this will be the only point where I share that.。
So we moved over 35 people at the beginning of 2023.。
Our first service had 50 people attending.。
Then when we shifted to our new venue, which was incredibly conveniently located,。
from October till December 2023, we had 166 people between our Cantonese and English service attending.。
And then now in this year, we've been averaging 214 people, 49 children, you know, every Sunday.。
So it really is incredible what God has been doing.。
If anyone would have told me that at the beginning, I would have said right away, "Yes, that sounds good."。
You know, if that's what God does.。
So, yeah, praise God.。
Now, next, I want to share with you a photo of K4CA from our children's ministry.。
The children love coming to our church community.。
And you see here June, who is part of our pastoral team, doing an incredible job and volunteers.。
And these are the three to five-year-olds there in their class.。
And then next is a photo from Pastor Ivan.。
And you can see him and his father.。
So can we go to the next photo, please?。
You can see him and his father welcoming people and also weighing.。
Now, since we have a Cantonese service, now father and son can attend the same service.。
And so that's beautiful and amazing.。
Now, one thing that happens sometimes is when we don't have people greeting and welcoming,。
people come up because they think we're a wine shop.。
And we always love that foot traffic.。
It's great.。
It's always a good conversation.。
So I think that has happened here before as well.。
So it happens here as well.。
So it's always good.。
Then one thing that we've been doing, so you can go to the next slide, please,。
is we've been facilitating intentionally community and connection.。
And so one way we do that is through Bring Your Own Lunch.。
You see that there.。
Once a month after a Sunday service, Cantonese and English service together, we have lunch together.。
It's Bring Your Own Lunch because we don't have much money.。
And so people have to self-finance, but it's a great and incredible time.。
And then we also pray for one another.。
And so this is just like you do here.。
We have a lot of times, like ministry times, where we pray for one another.。
And one thing that has been so amazing is just to see the people who God brings.。
So we've had parents who want their children to have a Christian education,。
and then their hearts are lit on fire for Jesus themselves.。
So they come to know Jesus.。
We've also have had people that have gone through difficult and painful things.。
And we had a sermon series called Longing for Healing.。
And as they were coming, God was just speaking to them and was doing a healing work in their lives.。
And so they went from not being sure about what they think about Jesus to following Jesus.。
And so that has been amazing.。
Those are just two of many stories.。
And then finally, one of the things that we've been emphasizing this year is we're still establishing the church plan process.。
And so one thing that we want to establish is that we're a church that loves and serves the city of Hong Kong.。
And so that takes actually a lot of facilitation for that to happen.。
So we had Young Lives with us last Sunday.。
So you can go to the next slide, please.。
And you see cats speaking, Young Lives, if you're not familiar with them.。
They work with teenage moms.。
And so we're sharing about stories and how we can get involved.。
And we're having playgroups with them in our settings.。
We're excited about that. It's just one example of a way that we're seeking to love, to serve our city.。
And so life is amazing most of the time.。
God is amazing always.。
And we're so incredibly blessed by what he has been doing.。
I always feel like I have front row seats to what God has been doing in this time.。
It's amazing.。
Now what I would love to do, I would love to pray for us before I go into our message for today.。
So let's pray.。
Jesus, thank you so much for bringing us here today together.。
Thank you that you love every single person here.。
And that you have brought us here today to hear from you through worship, through community, through your word, through your spirit.。
And so we just want to surrender. We want to say, "Lord, speak to us."。
We want to hear from you.。
And we want to say yes to whatever it is that you are talking to us about.。
I pray this in your name, Jesus. Amen.。
Amen.。
When I was in university, my senior year of university, I had quite an amazing senior year.。
And it was a lot of spiritually quite rich experiences.。
And one of them was I started this conversation with a childhood friend.。
Now he was not a Christian, but we were talking about faith.。
And this was almost weekly.。
And he asked a lot of challenging questions.。
They were not easy conversations, but they were very enriching.。
And it culminated with my friend coming to know Jesus, which was amazing.。
And actually he's a pastor here in Hong Kong as well.。
So I have my German buddy here.。
And so for me, my senior year was something where I grew in faith.。
And it was just incredible.。
And then I graduated.。
I started a job with Sherman Williams, a paint and coating manufacturer distributor.。
One of the largest ones in the world.。
And at first things were going well.。
Then the company moved me from central California.。
We had a lot of friends. I had a network.。
I went one year to high school there.。
They moved me to the California coast, to Monterey.。
And Monterey, if you don't know California, it's along the coast.。
It's a beautiful place.。
But for me, it actually turned out to be a really challenging time in my life。
where I made a lot of bad choices that I'm not very proud of.。
You could also say I was living in habitual sin and just brokenness.。
And so I went from this mountain peak experience my senior year in university。
and this first year of working coming out of college,。
I found myself in this bottom pit in the valley.。
And I was not the person that I wanted to be.。
I knew this was not the life I want to live, but I just was there.。
I was stuck there.。
It was also not the life that God called me to live.。
And I wanted to change.。
I wanted things to change, but I didn't really know how or what to do.。
So what do you do when you find yourselves in those places,。
when you're not living the way that you know God is calling you to live,。
when you're not the person that you want to be, what do you do?。
Well, as you have been going through the series on Ephesians,。
God's word is quite clear, that especially in the chapters 1 through 3,。
it talks about how Jesus is saving, healing work in our lives.。
You know, that we were dead in our sins, but that we have been made alive in Christ.。
And then last week, Pastor Andrew, he talked about that God has shaped a community,。
a church community, that it has become a maturing community,。
where we can grow, where we can change, where our lives can be transformed,。
where we can attain to the full measure of the wholeness of Christ Jesus.。
That we can start reflecting his character.。
That is amazing news, if you think about it.。
Like, we can really change, we don't have to stay the same.。
Now, I think that some of us here, maybe we have family history of whatever,。
broken relationship, addiction, and maybe we find ourselves stuck in that as well.。
And perhaps we have bought into this lie that life cannot change,。
this is just the way it is going to be.。
And so what God's word says, and also the church community,。
and the testimonies of people says, that you can change.。
And so here at the Vine, we believe that Jesus has the power to transform and change your life.。
And one thing I love, in Ephesians 2.10 it says this,。
"For we are God's handiwork, created in Christ Jesus to do good works,。
which God prepared in advance for us."。
So that means that when God looks at you, he sees all your potential.。
He sees all that you can be that he created you for.。
And his heart longs for that in your life to unfold.。
He desires to see that unfold in you.。
And so he can bring that about, this transformation and change.。
So just really sense for the day that some of us,。
maybe we've gotten comfortable where we are,。
and today maybe the Holy Spirit is going to bring some conviction,。
and just calling us to something better.。
But for others of us, we've bought into the lie,。
where we're like, "I don't know if I'll ever change, I tried, but nothing happened."。
And I believe that Jesus wants to say, "I can bring true change in your life.。
You do not have to continue in this way.。
I can bring wholeness, where there's brokenness, where there's pain."。
And so what I want to do with you today in this message,。
I want to explore a question with you.。
Because we all have a choice.。
Do we remain in immaturity?。
You know, as Christians, where we live ineffective lives,。
actually last week, Pastor Andrew said something quite powerful.。
He said this, he said, "If the enemy can't keep you from being a Christian,。
then the next best thing for him to do is to keep you from being a mature and effective one."。
And so what I want to look with you at today is,。
how can we be a mature and effective Christian。
and continue the conversation that Pastor Andrew started last week?。
How can we say yes to the Holy Spirit's transformed work in our lives?。
Now what does it look like?。
How do we engage this change process,。
where Jesus just wants to bring wholeness into your life, into our lives, into my life?。
Well, let me take you to Ephesians 4, starting with verse 17, it says this,。
"So I tell you this and insist on it in the Lord,。
that you must no longer live as the Gentiles do in the futility of their thinking.。
They are darkened in their understanding and separated from the life of God。
because of ignorance that is in them due to the hardening of their hearts.。
Having lost all sensitivity, they have given themselves over to sensuality,。
so as to indulge in every kind of impurity, and they are full of greed.。
That, however, is not the way of life you learned,。
when you heard about Christ and were taught in Him in accordance with the truth that is in Jesus.。
You were taught with regard to your former way of life, to put off your old self,。
which was being corrupted by deceitful desires,。
to be made new in the attitude of your minds,。
and to put on the new self, created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness."。
Now, this all starts out with Paul saying, "So..."。
So all of this builds on what Paul has said before, and this is really important,。
because in the first three chapters of Ephesians,。
Paul talks about the incredible saving work that Jesus has done.。
He talks about all the blessings that flow from Jesus.。
We're adopted, we're justified, we're made righteous,。
we're brought together as one family of God,。
and you create a new humanity, where people from all walks of life become a spiritual family.。
And it's all these incredible things that Paul talks about,。
because he wants the Ephesians to understand their identity as Christians.。
They have a new identity, and they need to understand the love of Jesus,。
before he moves into how to now live.。
Because how we live is always a response to the love, and the work, and the grace, and the mercy of Jesus.。
So that's always a starting point, so we have to keep that in mind as we go through the message today.。
So Paul is now telling the Gentile Christians that you must no longer live as the Gentiles do.。
Now that's interesting. He's talking to Gentiles, he tells them you must no longer live as Gentiles do.。
So what does he mean by that? Well, he doesn't want them to return to their old life, their old way of living,。
their old patterns of brokenness, of sinfulness.。
He wants them to make a clean cut, and to live in a new way,。
because Jesus has done something new in them, they are a new creation,。
they've been given a new identity, and he wants them to live out that new identity.。
So verse 17 through 19, it describes basically their life before they knew Jesus.。
And one of the main characteristics that Paul describes, and is asking them not to return to,。
is the futility of their thinking.。
Because he knows that futile thinking leads to futile living.。
Like how we think about something actually impacts how we live it out.。
And he doesn't want them to go back to their old ways of thinking.。
Now the word futility, the Greek word "mateotis", means three things.。
Futility, meaninglessness, and empty.。
And Paul does not want Ephesian Christians to go back to empty, meaningless ways.。
But if you think about the word futility, there's actually a lot of pain in that word.。
Because if you're striving, if you're trying, but you never are satisfied,。
you never arrive, man, that's tiring.。
It's not a fun journey.。
And so Paul is saying, why would you return to that?。
To the striving, where you're never truly satisfied.。
Maybe think, if I reach this achievement, then I'll be truly satisfied.。
So we chase after it, and then we have it.。
And there is some satisfaction in it.。
But then soon we want the next achievement, because that one's not enough.。
Or maybe we engage in a relationship, and we think that this relationship is going to satisfy us.。
But then it doesn't fully satisfy us, and so then we go into the next relationship, and so on and on.。
So it's this empty chasing.。
And so Paul says, why would you return to that?。
Why would you go back to that?。
I've given you a new life.。
I've given you a new identity.。
So then in verse 19, Paul says that ultimately this life, when we live in futility,。
and we go down that route, is a life where we're living in separation from God.。
It's a life apart from God.。
And again, why would you go back to that?。
For me, when I was in Monterey, I went into an environment where I didn't know anyone.。
So I went back to my old life, to my old patterns, my old ways of living.。
And sometimes there is comfort in that, but it never truly satisfies.。
And so I went back to these patterns of brokenness, of selfishness, of sinfulness.。
And for some of you that might be that way as well.。
That you've become a Christian, you've been given this new identity,。
but for whatever reason you've been going back to your old way of living.。
And you're also like, I was at that point, you're not who you want to be.。
And you know you're also not who God is calling you to be, who has created you to be.。
Because you're a new creation. He has something good, something beautiful for you.。
Now, let's continue verse 20 and 21.。
So there it says, "That, however, is not the way of life you learned when you heard about Christ,。
and were taught in him accordance with the truth that is in Jesus."。
So Paul and other leaders, they were teaching the new Ephesian Christians.。
They were teaching them what it means to follow Jesus.。
They were not teaching them a bunch of rules to observe.。
But it was centered around the person of Jesus.。
Because our faith has to do with a personal relationship with Jesus.。
And so they were teaching them how to live in a relationship with Jesus.。
Instead of going back to like we're not in a relationship with Jesus.。
Now this did involve the aspects that it talks about.。
Truth that is in Jesus.。
That does refer to his historical life, where he's fully human, fully divine.。
But he did his miracles, his ministry, he died, he rose.。
All those things we do need to learn about.。
But ultimately, Paul was saying, "That's not what we taught you to go back to your old ways.。
We taught you to live in that relationship with Jesus."。
So that's what he's inviting them.。
Start relating again. Start engaging in that relationship again.。
I think that's perhaps something that God is saying to some of us today.。
Start engaging again in that relationship with Jesus.。
Don't go back to that old way, it doesn't make any sense.。
So the essence of the Christian life is not a rigid set of rules.。
But a vibrant, transformative relationship with Jesus.。
So as we grow closer to him and seek to honor him in all we do,。
we'll discover the true freedom and purpose found in walking with him.。
So that's Paul, he's reminding them of their identity.。
He's reminding them, "Hey, this is what you learned, this is what we taught you.。
This way of life. Now live this way of life. Don't go back to the old way of life."。
But then he turns to, "How do we put on the old self, the new self, and renew the attitude of our minds?"。
So he turns to all of that. That's really what I want to focus on today.。
Because I think that's really where this transformation, this change is found.。
Where God's really telling us something. So let me read that, verse 22.。
"You were taught with regard to your former way of life to put off your old self,。
which was being corrupted by its deceitful desires,。
to be made new in the attitude of your minds,。
and to put on the new self created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness."。
So Paul, in this, he's actually, I think, making a really important point.。
Because he talks about putting off and putting on.。
What it points to is that even though we become Christians,。
there is still stuff in our lives that needs to be worked out.。
There are still things that are not fully there yet.。
There is still brokenness in our lives. There is still sin in our lives.。
This is true for everyone. We're living in this already but not fully yet part.。
So this is what Paul is talking about.。
And the word, the theological word for that is sanctification.。
So what I want to do is I want to talk about that,。
but I want to put it in a broader theological frame or conversation.。
The Bible talks about that we are saved, we were saved, we are saved,。
we are being saved, and we will be saved.。
So like past, present, future.。
And so when it talks about we were saved, it's talking about justification.。
When it talks about we are being saved, it talks about sanctification.。
And when it talks about we will be saved, it talks about glorification.。
Now let me unpack those a little bit.。
So justification is what Ephesians chapter 1 through 3 covers a lot.。
It's like Jesus died for your sins, you were dead in your sins,。
you were made alive in Christ by grace through faith,。
and you are declared, you're justified, you're declared righteous.。
So there's like a legal metaphor that God has spoken this legal sentence over your life.。
When God now looks at you, he sees the righteousness of Jesus。
in place of your sinful self that he has forgiven you for.。
So that's justification.。
And let's move to glorification.。
Glorification is when Jesus, when Christ has completed his saving,。
his healing work in your life.。
One day God's work with us will be completed,。
will be completely whole, there will be no more pain, no more tears.。
And so that's glorification.。
But right now most of us we're living in a sanctification space。
where we are more and more becoming who Jesus is calling us to be.。
We're not fully yet who we know we're meant to be.。
But God is not finished with us yet.。
He's not finished with you yet.。
And he's working things out.。
And sanctification is really about being made holy.。
It's about putting on the character of Christ,。
that we reflect Christ's character more and more.。
And all the spheres of our influence, you know, on all parts of our lives.。
That when people look at you, they can see a bit more and more Jesus in you.。
Because you can see your love, your grace, how you treat people.。
So that's what sanctification is about.。
And that's what this passage is really talking about.。
So let's unpack that a little bit.。
So first in verse 22 it talks about,。
"You were taught with regard to your former way of life to put off your old self."。
Now putting off the old self can also be translated, "put off the old humanity."。
Like we're, you know, we were saying earlier, "death to death."。
You know, we died to being dead in our sin.。
We've been raised to new life.。
And so we're meant to keep putting that off.。
We don't always live in the victory that Jesus has won.。
But we're meant to put this off.。
Now what does it mean to put off our old self?。
And what does that actually mean?。
Well, it's like turning away from our sinfulness, our brokenness.。
It's like coming to Jesus and saying, "Jesus, this is what's going on in my life.。
Help me.。
I know I'm not who I want to be.。
I know I'm not who you want me to be.。
But help me to be that person."。
It also has to do with the word "repentance,"。
where we turn from whatever we're doing that we know doesn't honor God。
and say, "Jesus, I don't want to live this way anymore.。
Forgive me.。
Help me now from this point forward to live by your grace, by your power, by your strength."。
That's what putting off our old self means.。
And it happens in that relationship with Jesus that Paul taught the Ephesians.。
You do that in a relationship.。
It happens with that intimacy of Jesus that we've been talking about.。
But notice this too also talks about the old self as being corrupted by deceitful desires.。
So it's a life that seems to be good and enjoyable, but really it leaves us empty-handed and broken.。
It's like false advertisement.。
You think you're getting something good, but you find yourself in shambles and more pain.。
And some of you may feel that way.。
On the one hand, you're excited to be here.。
You're like, "Man, I love worship.。
I love Jesus.。
I love this community, and it's so good always to be here."。
But then on the other hand, you haven't been--you're still stuck in patterns of the past.。
You've returned to part of your old life, and you live in some of that brokenness.。
So what do we do?。
Well, this passage actually provides an answer, a solution for us, and I want to continue to unpack that.。
That's also where we can start addressing our question.。
So how do we say yes to the Holy Spirit's transforming and healing work in our lives?。
How do we say yes to that, that we can experience that change, that we can become more Christ-like,。
that we don't have to stay the same person?。
Maybe the ugliness that's in our heart or in our actions, maybe it's anger, whatever it may be,。
we don't have to stay there, and we can experience this transformation.。
So here it goes.。
While Christ has defeated sin on the cross, we don't always live in that victory.。
And so putting on and putting off is actually daily discipleship, it's daily relationship with Jesus.。
And so we've already talked about the putting off part, but then in between the putting off the old self。
and putting on a new self, there's another line, so I want to look at that with you.。
It says that we, it says this, "to be made new in the attitudes of your mind."。
So God wants to do some renewing of our mind so that we're not stuck in the futility of our thinking.。
And the Greek verb "to be made new," it's in a passive voice, and what that means is。
that we're not the agents that make ourselves new.。
We do not renew ourselves, but God is the agent of renewal.。
And I think that's really important for us to know, that whether it's with justification,。
sanctification, glorification, it is always 100% the work of God in our lives.。
And He's the one that changes and renews us. It's His power. It's not us. It's not your effort.。
And I think sometimes we get stuck in our own efforts, where we try to make stuff happen out of our own。
and we fall short. But we need to learn to surrender and rely on the power of God。
to bring about this change, because He's the one who changes us. We don't do that ourselves.。
But we are given part in the process where we can say yes to the Holy Spirit's work,。
and that's the putting off and the putting on. Now what does putting on mean?。
Putting on, just very simply, means putting on the new self as obedience to Jesus.。
That we do what Jesus says. That we do what the Holy Spirit is revealing to us.。
And we don't always feel like that at first, but that's what putting on the new self means.。
So God has given us this picture, and this actually comes from our daily putting on clothes and taking off clothes.。
Take off the dirty clothes, put on the fresh clothes. That's what this imagery is about and comes from.。
And when we do that, we start reflecting more and more the true righteousness and holiness。
that we've been created for. We give God, we give the Holy Spirit a space in our lives to move。
and to transform us as we put off the old self and we put on the new self.。
And in that process, the Holy Spirit renews us and conforms our image more and more to Him.。
And that's how we say yes to the Holy Spirit's work.。
It's through daily putting off our old self and putting on the new self.。
Now, through the imagery of putting off the old self and putting on the new self, Paul is saying,。
become what you are. Live in line with your new identity that you have been given.。
You're children of God. Now reflect God. Reflect your heavenly Father.。
That's your identity. Your new identity.。
Now, you might again still wonder, like, well, what does that look like?。
So I want to share a little bit with you.。
When I was in university, I struggled really with one person that I knew.。
Different personality. There was nothing wrong with him.。
Just different personality. Personality clash.。
And there was a lot of judgment in my heart towards him.。
There was a lot of lack of grace.。
You know, as Christians, we've been shown grace by Jesus.。
But then sometimes we turn around and we don't show grace to other people.。
Well, that was what was happening.。
And I knew I had a bad attitude, a bad way of thinking and feeling about this other person.。
And I wasn't honoring God. And I was not the person I wanted to be.。
But at that point, I wasn't admitting that to myself yet. I hadn't gotten to that.。
So I received a package from my parents from Germany.。
It was around Christmas, a little bit before Christmas.。
It was amazing, German chocolate.。
And so he comes into the room and I'm eating some chocolate.。
And he's like, "Oh, I love chocolate."。
He's like, "German chocolate is my favorite chocolate."。
And I said, "Nein! Du kriegst keine Schokolade. You're not getting any chocolate."。
So I didn't say that.。
But I knew what he was asking for.。
But I pretended like I didn't understand.。
So I just kept eating my own chocolate.。
It was not very nice.。
Another occasion, I was trying to walk to class.。
And I was rushing to get there.。
And so he was blocking the hallway.。
And he's like, "You first got to fight me if you want to get past me."。
Now, he was saying this in a playful way.。
So this was not like he was not really trying to fight me.。
So he was just trying to relate to me and engage me.。
And he's like, "You first got to fight me."。
And I was like, "I don't want to fight you. I just actually want to go to class."。
Again, this German anxiety about not being late.。
It's like the biggest sin in Germany is to be late.。
So I'm so anxious.。
And so I asked him several times.。
And he didn't understand that I was serious.。
And so I put him down on the ground.。
I was like, "I'm sorry. I really need to go to class."。
So I went to class.。
So there's just some personality things where it's just really struggling with that relationship.。
Now, fast forward a year.。
I signed up for a Christian community group on campus.。
So I had no idea who I was going to be placed with.。
So I show up to our first meeting. The leader had called me.。
I show up. Guess who's there.。
I felt like quitting right there when I saw him.。
But then the Holy Spirit convicted me in my heart.。
I knew that my feeling and my attitudes towards him were not right.。
And I was not who I wanted to be.。
And I was not who God had called me to be.。
And so I knew that God was asking me to stay in this group.。
And that there was something I needed to learn.。
Even though I didn't feel like it.。
But in this instance, I said yes.。
So I ended up bringing my feelings, my thoughts, and prayer before Jesus.。
Asked for patience and grace over all of this.。
And I also did what God was asking me to do, which was go to those meetings.。
So you see in this, there's the putting off.。
Like I was acknowledging my feelings that were not right.。
And I was asking Jesus to help me with this.。
I'm giving this to you.。
I know I'm not feeling, thinking about this the right way.。
And then there was the putting on.。
The actually doing what was right.。
To keep going. To be there. To listen.。
This went on for two years.。
And I can truly say that after two years,。
it wasn't a chore for me to go to this community group anymore.。
I loved the people there. I loved my brother.。
And my heart had genuinely changed.。
It was transformed.。
Now I could not do this out of my own strength.。
But it was the power of God working in my life.。
Changing my heart and my attitude.。
Now if I would listen to IG influencers or YouTube influencers,。
they just tell you, do you.。
Now if I would do me in this instance,。
I would not go through all of that stuff.。
I would not make myself do something I don't feel like doing.。
So we have to remember, what does all of this flow out of?。
Well it's because of the love and grace of Jesus that he has shown me.。
It's the work of the Spirit of God in my life.。
And me just wanting to love Jesus back.。
And being the person that he has called me to be.。
That's where all of this always flows from.。
It always flows from there.。
So I want to invite the worship team to come up right now.。
And I just want to invite you here today.。
As I have been sharing about putting off and putting on our new self,。
putting off our old self.。
Like what things the Holy Spirit has been bringing to your mind.。
What he has been speaking to you about.。
And I just want to create some space right now where you can come yourself before Jesus.。
Can respond to him in a way that he is inviting you to respond.。
I don't want you to play down this moment.。
Like we sometimes we treat things like this casually, yeah whatever.。
No, Jesus has the power to change and transform your life.。
He has the power to change and transform your heart.。
I believe he wants to release some faith in us.。
That he can do this work.。
So I have two questions up there to help us prayerfully reflect.。
What are some areas in your life where you need to put off your old self and put on your new self?。
And the second one is what are the parts of your life we are longing for God's healing and transforming work?。
Because a lot of times where we are living in our old self there is actually a lot of brokenness.。
We just want, we need God's love, we need God's healing.。
So I just want to invite you right now for a couple of minutes just to pray,。
to come respond to the Holy Spirit's leading and then I'll pray over us.。
So let's do that right now.。
Let's take this time to pray.。
[MUSIC]。
