Well, during my senior year of university,。
I had this incredible experience.。
I went to chapel, and the Holy Spirit convicted me。
that I was missing the opportunities。
in which God wanted to use me.。
And I actually could see them flashing by in front of me.。
And so I prayed a simple prayer.。
I said, "Lord, I don't wanna miss the opportunities。
"anymore in which you wanna use me."。
And I genuinely meant it.。
Now, a few days later, a friend of mine calls me。
and says, "Tim, I wanna talk about Jesus."。
Who says that on the phone?。
You know, but my friend did.。
And so I was like, "Oh, this is the opportunity.。
"I'm not gonna miss it."。
And so I started sharing my faith with my friend,。
which was something that I hadn't done really before.。
And then over a period of time,。
I think it was like eight, nine months,。
he ended up becoming a Christian, a father of Jesus.。
And I was so encouraged to experience God use me.。
I was so encouraged.。
Now, all this happened my senior year.。
I graduated from university and I started my first job。
working for a paint company.。
And I was still on fire.。
I had this spiritual mountaintop experience,。
but that only lasted for a while.。
So the company that I was working for,。
they moved me to a location where I didn't know anyone.。
I didn't have a church.。
And I found myself going through actually。
one of the darkest times of my Christian journey。
that I've experienced even up to this date,。
where I wasn't attending church or community.。
So I didn't really have people to fellowship with.。
You know, we even talked about that.。
Natasha shared about fellowshipping with others in prayer.。
I didn't have that.。
I was just isolated.。
I didn't have any friends around me to speak into my life,。
to encourage me.。
I was hanging around with people that were encouraging me。
to do things that were not great, which I then did.。
So I also made some bad choices.。
And I really got to the point where I was not the person,。
I knew I was not the person I wanted to be.。
And I definitely was not the person。
that God called me to be.。
But I felt stuck.。
I felt stuck.。
Now, following Jesus, it's not always easy.。
That there are pressures and challenges。
that we all experience, where we have to figure out。
how to navigate them and what to do.。
For me, the pressure and the challenge。
was not having Christian community,。
hanging around with a crowd that was not encouraging me。
in the right direction.。
That was my pressure and my challenge.。
And I caved.。
I wasn't who I wanted to be.。
But for others, maybe it's pressure from your job.。
Maybe there's something about your job。
that's asking you to do something you do not want to do.。
You knew it was not right.。
You know it does not honor Jesus.。
But you're experiencing this pressure to give in to that.。
Maybe it has something to do with pressure from family.。
Sometimes our families, they might love us,。
but they might still ask us to do things that are not good.。
And it creates pressure on us.。
Maybe it's a pressure in relationship,。
or we're sick.。
And that creates pressure for us also。
to out of desperation to maybe make some choices。
that are not good.。
But what do we do?。
How can we stand firm in our faith in those moments?。
So what I wanna do with you,。
I wanna explore this with you today.。
How can I cultivate a resilient faith。
that will help me stand firm in my commitment to Jesus,。
regardless of what pressure comes?。
You know, how do you do that?。
And can we even do that?。
Can we even do that?。
So that's what we're gonna explore。
through our Bible passage today.。
We're in the book of Daniel.。
We're in the final sermon of the sermon series, Unshaken.。
So basically we're talking about unshaken faith,。
and how do you actually get that?。
It's nice to hear about that Daniel had it, right?。
But how do we have that?。
And so we're gonna look at the final vision。
that God gives Daniel.。
And this vision runs from chapter 10。
all the way through chapter 12,。
which is a lot of biblical texts.。
We're not gonna cover all of it,。
but I just wanna walk you through some parts。
before we pick up the passage。
that we're gonna look at today.。
So basically it is the third year of King Cyrus.。
So there's been a shift.。
Babylon, the empire has fallen.。
The Persian empire has been established.。
Israel, the seven years of exile are over.。
They've returned home.。
They're three years about home.。
But things didn't turn out the way they hoped for。
when they got home.。
And for them, they thought,。
"We go back, it's gonna be great.。
"We're gonna rebuild the temple.。
"The kingdom of Israel is gonna flourish.。
"It's gonna be amazing."。
But that's not what happened.。
Actually, they struggled to rebuild the temple.。
They stopped.。
There was ongoing ransacking of the people that moved back.。
And so they're going through an extreme period。
of difficulty and persecution and struggle.。
And so Daniel, he seeks God in prayer and fasting 21 days.。
And the vision that God gives Daniel is a response。
to this prayer and the seeking out of this desperate place.。
And the vision that he gets is,。
first of all, it's about empires that come and that fall.。
And they basically, the vision start right。
where Daniel's life is,。
and they move several hundred years forward.。
And it's actually quite incredible.。
The last king sort of that Daniel's vision is about。
is Antiochus IV Epiphanes.。
It's a hard name to say.。
Epiphanes, there we go.。
Antiochus IV Epiphanes, there we go.。
And this king was a horrendous ruler.。
He really hated God's people.。
And he sacrificed, so this is like history.。
You can read about it in history.。
He sacrificed a pig in the Jerusalem temple.。
He oppressed the people,。
tried to get them to commit idolatry by worshiping Zeus,。
so one of the Greek gods.。
And so this was a horrible period of persecution.。
So Daniel, the vision that God gives Daniel。
is of the rise and fall of all these empires,。
including Antiochus.。
And so this is amazing.。
God actually has foretold what was gonna happen.。
But then the vision jumps to even a further future.。
And what is described there has not yet happened.。
And it's also a period,。
it talks about it's at the time of the end,。
so what we would call tribulation or end times.。
And so he describes that.。
And we're picking up in chapter 12。
about this period of difficulty and persecution。
and see what vision God shared with Daniel.。
That was a very long intro,。
but that's the context, all right?。
So let's go to Daniel 12,。
we're starting in verse one, it says this.。
At that time,。
so again, talking about this time of distress,。
Michael, the great prince。
who protects your people will arise.。
There will be a time of distress。
such as has not happened。
from the beginning of nations until then.。
But at that time, your people,。
everyone whose name is found written in the book。
will be delivered.。
Multitudes who sleep in the dust of the earth。
will awake, some to everlasting life,。
others to shame and everlasting contempt.。
Those who are wise will shine like brightness。
of the heavens,。
and those will lead many to righteousness。
like the stars forever and ever.。
But you, Daniel, roll up and seal the words of the scroll。
until the time of the end.。
Many will go here and there to increase knowledge.。
Now this passage, it gives us a powerful vision。
of two things, two contrasts.。
One is distress on the one hand,。
and then on the other hand, it's a vision of hope.。
It's both.。
So let's look at the distress,。
'cause it talks about that there will be a time。
of distress such as has not happened。
from the beginning of the nations until then.。
Now, you and I, we've been around here for a while,。
and we know of things, horrible things that have happened.。
Well, that time's gonna be worse。
than the horrible things that we know have happened.。
Now let that sink in, right?。
That's actually quite scary,。
quite hard to fathom even, how can it even be worse?。
But the Bible is honest about sin, about suffering.。
You know, it doesn't hide that.。
So this is something that will happen,。
and God's people will be persecuted.。
But even in the midst of that,。
there's already here a glimmer of hope,。
and then hope is further described.。
It says that Michael, the great prince。
who protects your people, will arise.。
Now, Michael is an angel, and he will fight on our behalf。
he will fight on behalf of God's people。
in the spiritual realm.。
So we might feel like we're alone,。
but God is battling on our behalf.。
You know, he is fighting for us.。
So it's like the first word of hope, but then it continues.。
Because the deliverance is further described,。
it talks about this continuing in verse one,。
but at that time, your people,。
everyone whose name is found written in the book,。
will be delivered.。
So everyone who belongs to God will be delivered.。
Everyone who has faith in Jesus,。
who has fellowship with Jesus, will be delivered.。
Now that is amazing,。
especially as you're facing, you know, such horrible,。
unimaginable persecution and hardship.。
You know, God will deliver us.。
And then that deliverance is explained in verse two.。
What that deliverance looks like even further.。
It says this multitude to sleep in the dust of the earth。
will awake some to everlasting life,。
others to shame and everlasting contempt.。
Now, sleeping in the dust is a metaphor for being dead.。
And arising is that God will raise every person.。
And we will stand before God,。
and some will receive everlasting life,。
and some there will be shame and everlasting contempt.。
And for those of us who are raised to everlasting life,。
you know, that is amazing.。
This is the, actually, this is the clearest passage。
in the Old Testament where it talks about resurrection.。
In the New Testament, of course, we receive more about that.。
But this is amazing hope that even death,。
that even in the face of death,。
or even if we have experienced death,。
God can bring everything to a great resolution.。
You know, he can bring justice to us.。
He can raise us to a life。
where we are in his everlasting kingdom,。
where all tears will be wiped away,。
now where there will be no more shame,。
there will be no more suffering.。
And that is incredible news.。
That is incredible good news.。
But it does also talk about shame and everlasting contempt.。
Now, usually, you know, we don't talk about that that much,。
or if you create a sermon series。
and you're not preaching straight through a book,。
a lot of times you, you know, for whatever reason,。
you don't come choose those passages to talk about.。
But I felt like today I actually should say。
a little bit more, maybe how we can think about this。
as everlasting contempt and as shame,。
which is basically hell, right?。
And so what I'm sharing comes from a book。
from C.S. Lewis, "The Great Divorce,"。
so that's where these ideas are from.。
But basically, a lot of us, we wonder,。
how can a loving God, you know,。
send people to everlasting contempt and shame?。
You know, how does that fit together?。
And one way, or which I find the most helpful way。
to think about is God honors our choices.。
You know, he honors our choices.。
If we choose to live in rebellion and apart from God,。
at this final judgment, God affirms that。
and just allows us to continue in the choice。
that we have been consistently making throughout our lives.。
And so it shows that there's a real weightiness,。
there's a real seriousness to the choices that we make.。
If we choose to be in a relationship with God,。
if we surrender to Jesus, you know,。
we get to experience this everlasting life.。
But if we choose to live lives apart from God,。
well, God honors that.。
He proclaims our judgment and we live in that separation。
and sin continues to unravel in all its fullness.。
Now, I hope this is helpful.。
I usually, it's not what we focus on。
or spend a lot of time on talking about,。
but I think it's important,。
and as a pastor, it's my responsibility。
to talk to you about these things.。
And so there it is, and I hope it's helpful.。
Now, I do wanna say that for us, of course,。
and also from, I think, consistent with the New Testament,。
we don't try to scare people。
with everlasting contempt and shame.。
And I don't think it's fear。
that really drives people to God.。
It's God's love, it's his mercy, you know, it's his grace.。
And that's what we seek to share and emphasize.。
And in Romans 2, 4, it says that it's God's kindness。
that leads us to repentance.。
It's when we get a glimpse, you know,。
of just God's incredible mercy and love for us,。
that that is what turns our hearts towards him.。
And so that's our approach as a mind church,。
and I think it's biblically, you know, what we see.。
But going back, so we have this incredible hope。
that Daniel's given, and people who are suffering,。
people who are dying,。
and there's this promise, you know,。
that they will be raised。
for those who are faithful to him, to everlasting life.。
So this is an incredible word for a suffering,。
a struggling community,。
and it's an incredible word for anyone who's facing death,。
which at one point in time, we all will.。
And from the New Testament, of course,。
we know that Jesus, that he died and rose.。
And because he died and rose, we too,。
all those who belong to him will also die and rise.。
1 Corinthians 15 talks about the harvest,。
that it's the first fruit,。
that Jesus' resurrection is the first fruit.。
That means when the first fruit appears,。
that means there's more fruit to come.。
And so we can be confident because Jesus rose。
that we too will rise, you know, at this time.。
And so as Christians,。
we even have a stronger confidence and clarity。
than Daniel and God's people at that time had.。
But let's continue with the vision.。
So then there's a third part where, in this vision,。
Daniel, he's, and that speaks of glorification.。
Let me explain that.。
Verse three says that those who are wise。
will shine like the brightness of the heavens,。
and those who lead many to righteousness。
like the stars forever and ever.。
And there is, when God's saving work is completed in us,。
you know, when we're completely made whole,。
we not only get to enjoy God's glory,。
but in some ways we get to also share in it.。
And biblically, when it talks about salvation,。
there's different parts.。
It talks about as past, as present, and as future.。
Past is you were justified.。
There's a legal declaration that was made.。
You are righteous.。
You are God's child.。
You are forgiven.。
That's past, justification.。
Then there is ongoing, that is sanctification.。
You are being made holy.。
You are being conformed to the image of Christ.。
And then finally, there is glorification。
when God's work in us is completed.。
You know, we are fully who he created us to be.。
And so this is what this is picturing in a beautiful way.。
But I also want you to notice one thing there.。
It describes what a faithful life looks like.。
'Cause it says that it's those。
who lead many to righteousness.。
So part of living a faithful life and standing firm,。
you know, in relation with Jesus,。
also involves leading many to righteousness.。
So that means, what does that mean?。
Well, it means we connect people with God。
through how we live ourselves, through what we say to them.。
And so we get to be part of this redeeming,。
redemptive work of God。
that we can lead many to righteousness.。
And as we connect them with Jesus,。
as we model what it means to love our neighbors,。
to serve the marginalized,。
and to share the love of God with others,。
and as we share it with them as well.。
And that is part of this faithfulness。
that God invites us into.。
A life that is not just centered around。
fulfilling only our dreams。
and not caring about anyone else.。
You know, it's a life that is able。
to also care and invest in others.。
Well, let's continue and go to the final part of the vision.。
And I'm just gonna, after we read it,。
it's a little bit of a longer section,。
I'm just gonna really briefly talk about it。
because there's a lot in it。
and there's no way to unpack all of that, okay?。
But let's read it.。
So continuing in verse five, it says this.。
Then I, Daniel, looked,。
and there before me stood two others,。
one on this bank of the river。
and one on the opposite bank.。
One of them said to the man clothed in linen,。
"Who was above the waters of the river?。
How long will it be。
before these astonishing things are fulfilled?"。
The man clothed in linen,。
who was above the waters of the river,。
had lifted his right hand and his left hand towards heaven.。
And I heard him swear by him who lives forever,。
saying, "It will be for a time, times and a half a time,。
when the power of the holy people has been finally broken,。
all these things will be completed."。
I heard, but I did not understand.。
So I asked, "My Lord, what will the outcome of all this be?"。
He replied, "Go your way."。
Daniel, because the words are rolled up。
and sealed until the time of the end.。
"Many will be purified, made spotless and refined,。
but the wicked will continue to be wicked.。
None of the wicked will understand,。
but those who are wise will understand.。
From the time that the daily sacrifice is abolished。
and the abomination that causes desolation is set up,。
there will be 1,290 days.。
Blessed is the one who waits for。
and reaches the end of 1,335 days.。
As for you, go your way till the end.。
You will rest.。
And then at the end of this,。
you will rise to receive your allotted inheritance."。
Now, this vision of Daniel,。
I think it ends in a very helpful,。
but also maybe puzzling way.。
So it's helpful because we hear,。
let me rephrase that.。
So it's helpful and puzzling.。
Daniel says, "I don't understand all of this."。
Right?。
He says, "I heard, but I did not understand."。
And I think there is some comfort in that。
because there is a lot in there,。
a lot of the details especially that is hard to understand.。
And I, of course, this also has to do with,。
as I shared two weeks ago, it's apocalyptic literature.。
There's a lot of symbolism and things.。
We can understand the main idea,。
but in some of the details, it gets tricky。
and it's not always easy to understand.。
But God, by his Holy Spirit,。
helps us to understand what the main purpose is。
of what he's saying.。
And so I think there's some comfort in that。
that we don't always understand everything perfectly。
or every detail, right?。
The two questions about visions,。
there's two questions about the vision that I asked.。
One is how long?。
And what will the outcomes of all this be?。
And there's very cryptic answers to those questions, right?。
It's like times and times and half time.。
And then there's numbers.。
I felt like a little bit, it's like Cantonese lesson。
when I tried to read the numbers,。
you know, 1,290 days and 1,335 days.。
So what's the point of that?。
Now,。
the point of it。
is that God understands what these numbers mean,。
that he has numbered these days.。
He is in charge, sovereignly in charge of these events.。
He knows when they will unfold.。
And because, you know, he knows because he is in charge,。
because he is Lord over all history,。
you know, we can rest assured.。
So that's the meaning of this,。
even if you don't understand the details of it.。
But that's the big picture,。
you know, that because God is sovereign and in charge,。
because he numbers all days, you know,。
his purposes in our lives, his purposes for God's people,。
he will accomplish them and no one can stop that.。
Yes.。
So then Daniel, he's twice instructed, go your way.。
And first when I read this,。
I felt like it was like, shut up, Daniel, stop asking.。
But that's not what this means.。
Actually, it's really reassuring Daniel.。
And God is reassuring him, hey, you've prayed,。
I've given you a solution for God's people。
who are struggling, who are suffering,。
who are going through difficulty.。
And you're wondering, you know, how to think of this。
and how to handle all this.。
Well, I've spoken to you,。
I've given you a vision of my sovereignty,。
I've given you a vision of the hope that you have,。
that your people have.。
And now, instead of being caught up in maybe how,。
in exactly when all this will fall down,。
you now live faithfully, you now follow me,。
you now do the things that I asked you to do。
in your day to day life.。
Now go your way.。
And there's also an incredible promise there in verse 13.。
And it says, "As for you, go your way till the end,。
"you will rest and then at the end of the days,。
"you will rise to receive your allotted inheritance."。
The promise is you will rest, he will die,。
you will rise, you will be raised to new life,。
and then you will receive your allotted inheritance.。
God will bless you as you are part of this new world.。
And part of his everlasting kingdom.。
So that's incredible, and that's a true promise。
for all of us who follow Jesus.。
You know, we will rest, we will rise, and we will receive.。
Now, earlier I asked a question,。
and you might be wondering, like, what in the world,。
how does all of this connect with this question。
that Tim asked earlier?。
How can I cultivate a resilient faith。
that will help me stand firm in my commitment to Jesus,。
regardless of what pressure comes?。
And how does this vision that Daniel receives。
speak into this question?。
Well, Daniel had hope in God.。
He had hope that God was sovereignly in charge。
over all of history.。
And this hope was greater than any difficulty,。
any persecution, any struggle, any challenge,。
any pain, even greater than death.。
So this is incredible hope.。
And this is hope that we can only find in God.。
And you see, when we receive that kind of hope,。
it really frees us, 'cause we no longer need。
to be overwhelmed by our circumstances.。
They might still weigh on us, and we shouldn't pretend。
like we're not struggling with things,。
but we can be confident in that God is at work,。
that he will bring about his purposes in our lives,。
that they will unfold, he will make them happen.。
And that really frees us to not so much be focused。
on these things, but to focus on the things。
that God asks us to do, to be about the things of God.。
Jesus would call it seeking first the kingdom of God.。
Having this hope frees us to seek first the kingdom of God,。
and for God to add all these other things unto us.。
So that's incredible.。
And the same is true for us.。
God wants to give us this hope, this incredible hope。
that he is sovereign, that he rules,。
that he's in charge of our lives。
as you are going through difficulties,。
as you are experiencing pressures on your faith,。
that might be crushing you, that are overwhelming you.。
He wants you to see that he is sovereignly at work。
in your life, that you are not alone,。
that he is with you, and that his purposes,。
for those who are faithful, he will unfold them。
in your life, because he is faithful.。
Now, when we talk about hope, our understanding of hope,。
and the biblical understanding of hope is quite different.。
Our understanding of hope is,。
I hope tomorrow will be sunny so I can go hiking.。
So that's a wish, right?。
I wish that tomorrow the weather's gonna be good。
so I can go hiking.。
I like hiking, I haven't hiked in a long time.。
But I hope.。
But biblical hope is not wishful thinking.。
It's a deep confidence in God's character,。
his promises, and his sovereignty.。
And so when we hope in this way,。
we're not just wishfully thinking,。
it is rooted and based in who God is,。
and in our experience of God.。
And so you might wonder, how do I get this kind of hope?。
Like, what do you do?。
Well, first of all, you have to know Jesus,。
'cause this hope is only found in a relationship with God.。
So that's the beginning.。
But then what about beyond that?。
Well, now, let's think about that.。
If you think about Daniel's life,。
was he always, did he always have this resilient faith。
and this firm commitment?。
You know, right when he was born,。
or early in life, did he have this resilience faith。
you know, that we read about,。
and that is so inspiring to us。
when we read the book of Daniel.。
I don't think he did.。
I think it's a process that this faith is built.。
And so how do we, how do we engage this process?。
Well, we also see that in Daniel's life.。
He chose, so he was deported from Israel to Babylon.。
Then he had to be part of the king's court。
where he was, you know, supposed to learn for three years。
and receive all his wisdom, Babylonian wisdom and everything.。
He was supposed to eat the choice food,。
and he chose not to defile himself, you know,。
by eating the foods that were offered to idols。
and that were not kosher.。
And he chose to obey the Mosaic law.。
And so through his choice, he's stepping out in faith.。
Earlier, think about "Spirit Lead Me."。
I don't remember the rest of the lyrics.。
I'm sure you know.。
The ocean song, right?。
Remember, "Trust us without borders."。
So he was stepping out in faith,。
but he didn't know what was gonna happen.。
I mean, the eunuch gave him 10 days,。
I think that's what it was, 10 days,。
of eating vegetables, and then God showed up.。
They were healthy, they were better,。
and the eunuch allowed him to just continue。
eating vegetables.。
And that's what happens when we step out in faith,。
when we're obedient to what God asks us to do。
with the little things that we know。
he's asking us to be obedient in.。
God shows up.。
So growing in hope and faith,。
it's a process that you can engage in every day。
through obeying, doing what you know God asks you to do.。
That's how we build hope.。
It's like through daily obedience to God。
and the things that he shows us to be obedient in.。
I don't know what he's showing you to be obedient in,。
but you know.。
So just be obedient in that,。
and then as you're obedient in that,。
God will show up.。
He will let you know that he's there with you.。
Sometimes he provides and removes whatever is going on.。
Sometimes he just helps us to walk through it.。
You know, it can be different,。
but he will show up, and he does it time and time again.。
So as we continue to place our faith in him,。
as we continue to walk with him,。
God will continue to show himself to you.。
You know, that he is faithful,。
that when we trust him, you know, that he shows up,。
'cause he cannot do it, it says in scripture,。
he cannot do anything else but be faithful.。
And so because God is faithful,。
we can be faithful, and we can grow in faithfulness.。
You know, and it's something that's always by his grace.。
It's always because the Holy Spirit is working on us。
as we take these, our feeble steps,。
and a lot of times we fumble around,。
but he can build this strong, resilient faith。
that can stand firm in their commitment to Jesus,。
and he wants to build this faith in us.。
So I don't know earlier when I shared, like,。
you know, where you are in this journey,。
if you're right now feeling a lot of pressure,。
if there's a lot of struggles and difficulties,。
and you just really need to, like, grab hold of this hope.。
Well, the way that you do it is by just surrendering。
to Jesus, by doing what he asks you to do,。
and by seeing how he continues and continues。
and continues and continues to show up for you.。
Now, I was thinking about my own life.。
How have I experienced that?。
Earlier, I started off with a story of,。
in chapel, like, when I, you know, God convicted me。
that I was missing the opportunities。
which God wanted to use me,。
so I started sharing my faith with a friend.。
I didn't know the Bible very well.。
I was scared of having that conversation,。
'cause I didn't, what if my friend asked me。
difficult questions, guess what he did?。
And I had to then figure out what to say,。
or to say I don't know.。
But it was amazing in that process,。
this was like, you know, seven, eight, nine months,。
there was times when I was reading something,。
maybe a day or two before, and then suddenly it was。
what came up in the conversation, you know,。
and then I could use it in this conversation.。
So I experienced God provide all along the way。
in that conversation, even.。
So when we step out in faith, God shows up.。
Another way of experiences is when I,。
so I was working for, at that time,。
Morgan Stanley felt called to serve God,。
but it was a little bit ambiguous,。
I didn't know exactly what that meant,。
I just knew God wanted me to shift and do something else.。
And it was such a strong experience that I quit my job.。
And I was like, okay, actually that Sunday night。
I went into my office, I cleared out my office,。
and then next day in jeans I went to my boss。
and told him, "Sorry, I need to leave, God has called me."。
Then he told me, "Okay, I wish you all the best,。
"don't shop at another investment firm in the next few months."。
(laughs)。
So, but, and then I didn't have anything,。
I didn't know what I was doing,。
it was like, I told my parents,。
and they were like, "You made the biggest mistake。
"of your life." (laughs)。
That's what they told me.。
And, you know, but God showed up,。
like he brought, my parents came around,。
they saw that God had worked in my life,。
he led me on what to do next, and he provided.。
And then, one thing that I do refer to here quite frequently。
in a difficult and a painful time,。
I was lost, most difficult time of my life.。
I didn't know what to do.。
And I, a friend of mine, a pastor, he's like,。
"Tim, just focus on following Jesus.。
"Like you can't control everything that happens,。
"but you just focus on following Jesus."。
And that's what I try to do, you know, day in and day out,。
and then God met me along the way and he provided.。
'Cause when we step out in faith,。
when we do the things that God asks us to, he shows up.。
And so he has done it in my life,。
and as I've gotten older, I'm more convinced of that,。
I have a greater hope, 'cause I have experienced。
God's faithfulness in a greater way,。
and I know he can do it in your life。
and has done it in many of your lives.。
But so if you wanna grow a resilient faith。
that allows you to stand up, it starts with。
just ongoing surrendering and obedience。
to Jesus in your day to day.。
That's where you build it, not in the big moments。
when suddenly you need this massive faith,。
but in the little things in the day to day.。
And Daniel's faith is not just for superheroes,。
it's for every single person who knows Jesus.。
Now God can give you that faith。
to live lives of radically serving him and for his purposes.。
And he shows up when we do that.。
So I wanna invite the worship team to come.。
(breathing deeply)。
And I had this statement, it's because God is loving,。
faithful, sovereign, and in charge.。
You know, we can go our way to the end unshaken,。
faithfully following him.。
Now it's because of who God is,。
not out of our own strength, not because of who we are,。
but it's because who God is that we even。
can live in this way.。
It's by his grace, it's by his mercy.。
And he wants us to see that.。
He wants us to know that.。
And he's inviting us even today here。
to take steps of faith in the things。
that he's asking us to do.。
And so many times we're not available or we're scared,。
but he wants to lift our eyes to him and say, trust me.。
Just like any, it's like a relationship too.。
You get to, with a friend you say we're gonna meet。
at this time, this point in time,。
you go there and your friend's there.。
Okay, you learn, oh, I can trust this person.。
You know, and then as they do that 10 times, 20 times,。
and you know, yeah, this is a person that shows up.。
Well, it's that in a similar way it's with God.。
You know, he is faithful, he shows up, he will provide.。
And as I was, I guess, preparing for today,。
I felt like there's two things。
that God is inviting us into.。
The first thing is, you know, where today。
is actually God asking you to be faithful?。
What's that little thing that God is asking you。
to faithfully follow Jesus?。
Now, how can you be obedient to him today?。
'Cause it's the little things that then later on。
allows us to do it also in the big moments.。
We don't know when they come,。
but it's the little things that prepare that faith,。
that build that resilient faith in our hearts.。
So what is God asking you right now to be obedient in?。
And the other thing, so I invite you to pray over that,。
to be obedient, take that step,。
and to see how God shows up, how he will meet you.。
And then the other thing I felt strongly about。
is that today I should extend an invitation。
because all of this hope, you know,。
in God and who he is and his ability to live for him。
and to stand firm under pressure,。
it starts with a relationship with Jesus.。
And I assume that not everyone who comes here knows Jesus.。
I mean, we heard today that we have choices to make.。
You know, every person that has this choice to make,。
do I wanna turn to Jesus?。
Do I wanna maybe explore who he is?。
And if I really believe this?。
And our choices, they really matter.。
It's not a light matter, you know?。
And so I just wanna ask right now, you know,。
is there anyone here,。
I wanna ask you that wants to receive Jesus,。
that has never done that before?。
And I'll talk a little bit about what that is.。
Receiving Jesus, basically the way we do it,。
we repent of our sin.。
We say, "Jesus, I'm sorry, you know,。
"for living in rebellion to you。
"and sorry for sinning against you。
"and against other people."。
And then the second thing is faith.。
And Jesus, I believe in you.。
Will you come into my life, right?。
So I'm gonna pray this prayer now.。
And you can, if you wanna pray that,。
you can pray that along in your heart.。
And so let me do this right now.。
Jesus, I am sorry for。
all the ways that I've sinned against you。
and against other people.。
And if there's specific things that come to mind,。
just tell Jesus that you're sorry about those things.。
I'll give some space for that.。
(gentle music)。
Thank you for forgiving me, Jesus.。
Thank you for dying on the cross。
and rising from your grace so that I can be forgiven.。
Will you come now in my life。
and fill me with your Holy Spirit?。
Thank you.。
I pray all this in Jesus' name, amen.。
If you pray this prayer,。
I actually wanna encourage you to tell someone about it.。
Their significance and actually publicly confessing。
that we've taken a step of faith.。
I would love to hear about it.。
Maybe somebody you're sitting with,。
you can share it with them.。
But so I encourage you to take the step.。
But I wanna invite you all to stand。
and why don't we now respond in worship and praise.。
(gentle music)。
(water trickling)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
