We're so glad you're here.。
Perhaps you just arrived in Hong Kong and you're settling into the city.。
And we're so glad that you're here and glad that you're discovering churches in our city.。
And there's lots of great churches in Hong Kong.。
We encourage you to check out a number of churches.。
But if this is your heart, this is your home, we're so grateful that you're here.。
Perhaps you're visiting, maybe you're part of a family or maybe you're visiting family。
that live in Hong Kong in this season.。
We're glad you're here.。
I'm really excited.。
I normally here at the Vine, we preach in series.。
That's what we do.。
So we normally do four to week, four weeks, six weeks, 10 week series, something like。
that.。
But every once in a while in between series, I get a chance to do a one-off message with。
you and that's what today is.。
And I have a something on my heart that I've been caring for us as a community for some。
time.。
Something that is very dear to my heart because it's a message I'm preaching to myself this。
morning.。
Everything I'm saying to you this morning, I'm speaking into my spirit because I desperately。
need this.。
I want to read you a passage of Jesus.。
One of the most beautiful things I think Jesus says to the crowds as he's teaching in Galilee.。
You've already heard it actually, Justin read it to us just a bit earlier.。
This is Matthew chapter 11, starting in verse 28.。
And I wonder whether you could hear these words and have these words go into your spirit。
and soul this morning.。
Jesus says, "Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest."。
I don't believe that there's any more beautiful promise in scripture than that.。
"Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart and you。
will find rest for your souls.。
For my yoke is easy, my burden is light."。
Father, as we open your scriptures, would you open us?。
Would you just take a moment to recognize the weariness and the burden that you carry?。
Father, we enter into this space recognizing the need we have for your rest.。
Holy spirit, as we open this passage, would you, Lord, I pray, lift burdens, lift weight,。
renew joy.。
We pray this in Jesus name.。
Jesus says, "Amen."。
These words are profound to me.。
They're some of the most famous words of Jesus in all of scripture.。
In fact, these words have been reproduced on cheesy Christian fridge magnets, bumper。
stickers, t-shirts, coffee mugs, in our modern time IG posts.。
I'm sure you've seen these words somewhere on your Instagram feed at some time.。
I, in fact, posted these words on my Instagram feed earlier this week.。
These are famous and familiar words.。
And they're famous and familiar words for a very important reason, for actually a very。
critical reason.。
Because in these words, Jesus offers us something that speaks to a need that is in every human。
being.。
And I would argue a need that is in every modern human, maybe in a time of history like。
never before.。
And that is the need for rest.。
Yes, this beautiful idea of rest.。
I mean, if you could think about it, I don't think there's a better word or a better promise。
in all of scripture for us who are stressed out, burnt out, exhausted, overwhelmed, overproducing,。
overfocused, kind of overworked, sort of stressed.。
All the things that we know we are in Hong Kong.。
Could there be a better promise to us than this?。
In fact, I'm kind of surprised that when Jesus wrote this, he didn't start by saying to the。
people of the church in Hong Kong, "Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and。
I will give you rest."。
This should resonate with you here this morning, because this is July and you're still in Hong。
Kong, which means that you're not on vacation right now.。
So you are a people desperately in need of rest, amen?。
The empty chairs, normally the 915 doesn't have any empty chairs in it.。
The empty chairs you see around you are the people that chose to be on vacation this morning,。
okay?。
So you are here.。
And if you're anything like me, when you think about rest, you're crying out and you're like,。
"Man, this sounds good."。
I mean, we know the stress and the burnout and the exhaustion, the tiredness, the overwhelmed.。
We know the hard work that a boss puts upon us.。
We know how desperately our physicality, our emotions, and our minds, our spirits, and。
our souls need rest.。
And when we hear this from Jesus, we are just crying out, "Yes and amen," more and more.。
But here's the reality, what Jesus is actually speaking about in this passage is actually。
a lot different from what we think that He's speaking about.。
In fact, what Jesus is calling us into in this passage is different from what we hope。
He's calling us into.。
What we think we need when Jesus says rest.。
You see, you've got to understand that in our modern context, when we read this and。
we hear Jesus say, "Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you。
rest," we immediately have our modern thinking about what we think we need when we think。
of the idea of rest.。
And when Jesus says, "Come to me and you will find rest," we think that Jesus is inviting。
us on a permanent vacation.。
We think Jesus is literally inviting us to drink pina coladas on the beach in Bali.。
We think this is amazing because we're stressed out, we're exhausted, we're desperately in。
need of ceasing our productivity.。
So when Jesus says, "Come to me and I will give you rest," what we think He's saying。
is, "Come to me and you can cease your productivity.。
Come to me and you can put work aside.。
Come to me and you'll never have to work a day in your life."。
And when we hear that, we're like, "Yes and amen!"。
I mean, who here doesn't want to put work aside and kind of get rid of all that exhaustion。
and just spend the rest of our lives kumbaya-ing with Jesus?。
I mean, that sounds amazing.。
And so when we read this, we're exactly like that.。
We're like, "Give this to me, Jesus."。
And Jesus is like, "That's about as far away from what I'm trying to say through this passage.。
You're desperately in need of finishing work.。
I want to renew work inside of you.。
So come to me, you who are currently weary and burdened because of the way in which you。
are working, and I will change everything."。
See what Jesus is actually saying is something far grander and far bigger and far more amazing。
than we could ever imagine.。
And when we just catch a glimpse of what it is that Jesus is trying to teach us in this。
verse, what happens to us is that we shift away from desperately needing to escape from。
this life to desperately wanting to lean into this life.。
Come on, church.。
I know this is the summer, but come on, church.。
Are you okay?。
We want to desperately escape life, and so we think that Jesus, when he offers our rest,。
our ticket to escape life, Jesus is like, "No, when you understand what it is to come。
to me, you are revolutionized to live the life that you were actually created to live。
in the first place."。
You've got to understand that when Jesus says, "Come to me, all you who are in burden, and。
I will give you rest," he's actually not speaking to modern Hong Kong.。
He's speaking to first century Galilee.。
He's speaking to people who were farmers, people who were workers of the field, people。
who were average, everyday people in the first century living under the exhaustion of empire.。
Jewish people, Jewish people who understood their scriptures and were looking for the。
Messiah, Jewish people who understood that God had set something up at the beginning。
of all time in this area of rest that had been disrupted by sin, and now we're desperately。
waiting for the Messiah to come to bring them back into a place of biblical rest, which。
let me tell you, unfortunately, is not a pina colada on a beach in Bali, but is something。
much greater and actually the thing that you really need.。
To understand that, we have to step out of our modern context and step into the biblical。
context.。
We need to do that by going to my favorite three chapters of the Bible.。
Do you know what my favorite three chapters of the Bible, you should know this by now。
if you come to the Vine.。
One of my favorite three chapters of the Bible, everyone.。
All right, I got work to do.。
Genesis 1, 2, and 3.。
We just spent a whole month in those passages in our justice series.。
Genesis 1, 2, and 3.。
What you see in Genesis 1 and 2 is that God sets up something for humanity.。
I like to call it this way.。
In the whole of the creation moment in Genesis 1 and 2, the pinnacle, the climax, the creation。
of humanity, the placing us within the garden, God then gives us two essential rhythms for。
human flourishing.。
Let me unpack these briefly for you.。
Two essential rhythms to your human flourishing.。
The rhythm of work and the rhythm of rest.。
It's important you have to understand that we were created to work.。
God actually in Genesis 1 and 2, when he creates humanity, he places them in the garden and。
then God gives these words to humanity.。
He says, "I want you to go into the garden, go into creation, and I want you to steward。
it.。
I want you to bring it to the fullness of what it was created to be."。
This mirrors what God had done in the larger work of creation.。
Remember, humanity is made in the image of God.。
We see in the wider story of Genesis 1 and 2 in God's creation that he creates through。
the Spirit and takes something that's formless, gives it form, and then moves it to its fullness.。
So, us being made in his image, God then places us into creation and he says, "I want you。
to do the same thing.。
This is what work is, partnering with me to take something into its fullness, partnering。
with me to flourish my creation."。
So, work in its very essence is grounded in a partnership with God and it's grounded。
in us imaging him by working with our hands.。
That might mean physically our hands, it might mean just our gifts and our talents, however。
we might do it, in order to bring things into its flourishing so the world would truly be。
as it was created to be.。
Does that make sense?。
And when we do that, human beings come alive and they don't need pina coladas on the beach。
in Bali.。
They find life.。
So, you've got to see that there's a rhythm that God has created where we are created。
to work before Genesis 3.。
I want you to see work was a good thing.。
Everyone say, "Amen."。
Even the bankers and the lawyers in this room, say, "Amen," with me.。
Come on.。
I'm sorry.。
I love it.。
I used to be a banker, by the way, so that's okay.。
I can say that.。
On the other side, though, God then institutes this idea of rest.。
Oh, everybody say, "Amen."。
Okay, thank you.。
Just one person.。
That's great.。
So, in rest, God does two things in Genesis 1 and 2.。
First of all, I want you to see that in the order of his creation, he instills rest first.。
There is those famous words at the end of every day of creation.。
He says this, "Then there was evening and morning the first day."。
Or he would say, "Then there's evening and morning the second day or the third day or。
the fourth day."。
Notice that when God describes a day, he starts with rest.。
Come on, church.。
"When there was evening and then there was morning the first day."。
So God sees that one of the rhythms to human flourishing, notice this, and this is really。
important, God has actually designed it so that we humans flourish the best when we are。
operating out of rest and not into rest.。
Come on, church.。
When we're operating out of a place of rest, not into a place of rest.。
Now all of us, when we think of vacation and holiday, here's our mentality.。
I'm going to work really hard because I've got a vacation coming up when I can collapse.。
That's working into rest.。
But God creates the evening and the morning, the first day, confirming to us that this。
is the way in which human flourishing comes.。
You work out of a place of rest into the renewable things.。
When you start from rest, you are becoming human and you flourish and you come alive.。
When you need rest as something to collapse into, then you've got it the wrong way around.。
We think of a day as, "Oh, work, work, work, work, work, and then I can get home and watch。
Netflix."。
God looks at it like rest so that you can come alive.。
I learned this the hard way for many years when I became a pastor.。
It was funny, when I was a banker, I was stressed but didn't have any physical issues.。
When I became a pastor, I suddenly developed IBS, irritable bowel syndrome, because I was。
so stressed about everything that I was doing as a pastor.。
I was weighed down by the burdens of it.。
I remember going to a doctor and they did all the tests.。
I thought I might have stomach cancer or something going on.。
They did all the tests and ran all the tests and nothing was in my stomach at all.。
No problems, no brokenness, whatever.。
So I sat down with the doctor.。
I'm like, "Doctor, I don't understand this.。
I have bad stomach issues all the time.。
How can you tell me that my stomach is fine?"。
He said, "Well, it's because of how you're working."。
I'm like, "I don't understand."。
He says, "Well, tell me about your work week."。
So I told him about my work week.。
I said, "I start on a Tuesday and I work Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday.。
Sunday's my biggest day and it's such a big day.。
We have three services on a Sunday.。
I preach my guts out and at the end of the day, I'm exhausted, but I have Monday to rest."。
He's like, "Well, your whole work week, you're working into rest."。
He said, "What would it look like if you worked out of rest?"。
I said, "What do you mean?"。
He said, "Why don't you flip your day around, rather than Monday being your day off, Friday。
being your day off."。
I'm like, "I can't do that.。
Monday's my day off."。
He's like, "Aren't you the boss?"。
I said, "Yes."。
He said, "Well, then change your day."。
So I did.。
I literally changed my day off to Friday.。
So now I work Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and I have Friday off.。
And then sometimes if there's stuff going on at the church, I'll work Saturday.。
Sometimes I don't need to.。
Here's the thing.。
Sunday, my biggest day of the week, used to be the thing I was working towards to try。
to finish so I could collapse afterwards.。
Now Sunday is the first day of my week, which is why I'm so energized when I come into church。
every week.。
Yes!。
Now I know for all of you, you got into Sunday going, "Oh my God, it's my day off."。
Whereas I get into Sunday going...。
Now here's the thing.。
As soon as I changed my work week to being Friday off rather than the Monday off, it。
totally revolutionized my life and I don't have IBS anymore because I was actually designed。
to work out of rest, not work into rest.。
What would it look like for you to change the rhythms of your life?。
Now you might go to your boss tomorrow and say, "I want Fridays off."。
And they're like, "No, no, not going to happen."。
So you got to work out how this is going to work for you.。
My boss is Jesus, so I'm good.。
But you, you know...。
But what would it look like for you to work out of a place of rest, not work into a place。
of rest?。
Does that make sense to you?。
Just even that thought for some of you here today is revolutionary for you.。
Now here's the second thing though in the creation narrative, right at the end of it。
on the seventh day, we know what happened, right?。
What did God do on the seventh day?。
He rested.。
Now here's the error.。
Again, we apply our modern understanding to rest to that concept.。
So we often think, "Well, God was exhausted from all of his hard work of things, so on。
one day he had to rest."。
Now the actual Hebrew word that's used for rest here means, better translated, "ceased."。
So what it means is he ceased from his work, he ceased from his producing, not because。
he was exhausted, but because he was done.。
The very different concept.。
In other words, the world was just as it should be, so God didn't need to do anything more.。
Not that he was exhausted and needed rest.。
He's not going into rest.。
He's saying, "No, everything is just as it should be."。
And he stands back from that and says, "This is very good."。
It's a little bit like, imagine an artist with a beautiful painting and they've been。
working on the painting for months, and there's that moment right at the end where they put。
the last brushstroke of ink or paint onto that painting, and then they stand back and。
they look at it and they go, "Hang on a sec.。
It's done."。
And they put the paintbrush down.。
Not because they're exhausted, but because it is finished.。
So God stands back from his creation and says, "This is very good."。
Now here's the mistake we make because of this later on in the law, later on through。
the Exodus and further on.。
This day gets created as the Sabbath day for humanity, for the Jewish people, where one。
day a week they cease their work, they put it all down in order to connect with God,。
rely on him, rest as well.。
So Sabbath is established because of this seventh day that God rested.。
But I want you to see that in the Genesis 1 and 2 narrative, this is naturally not speaking。
about Sabbath.。
That was institutionalized later.。
What it's saying here is this is Shalom, not Sabbath.。
This is God standing back and saying, "This is just as it was created to be.。
Everything is where it should be.。
This is a place of peace.。
This is rest."。
Are you with me?。
So when Jesus says, "Come to me, all you who are wearing burdens, and I will give you rest,"。
he's not speaking about Sabbath.。
Come on, church.。
Now Jesus teaches on Sabbath in other places, often to try to revolutionize Sabbath because。
Sabbath had become a burden to people.。
He tries to liberate them from it.。
But in Matthew 11, he's not speaking about Sabbath.。
He's not talking about a rest where just get away on vacation for a while and everything。
will be reset for you.。
He's actually talking about something much deeper.。
He's actually going back to Genesis 1 and 2, the last brushstroke, stepping back and。
saying, "Everything is right again."。
Now we know what happens in Genesis 3, don't we?。
In Genesis 3, everything changes.。
Because in Genesis 3, there's Adam and Eve, and they take the fruit that they shouldn't。
have taken from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.。
We know that sin comes into the context, and sin disrupts everything.。
Remember those four relational contexts we were talking about in our justice series?。
Us with God, us with ourselves, us with others, us with creation, all created for us in Genesis。
1 and 2 as good.。
All four of those are disrupted because of sin in Genesis 3.。
And because our relationship with God breaks, our relationship with ourselves breaks, our。
relationship with everybody else breaks, and our relationship even with creation breaks,。
sin impacts everything that was established in Genesis 1 and 2, including, most importantly,。
the essential rhythms for human flourishing.。
Our rhythm of work and our rhythm of rest, totally disrupted.。
In fact, I want to show you how this impacts specifically our rhythms of work.。
Let me take you to Genesis 3, and I'm just going to read from a few verses, from verses。
17 to 19.。
It says this.。
It says this is God speaking to Adam and Eve after the reality of the sin.。
He said, "Cursed is the ground because of you.。
Through painful toil you will now eat of it all the days of your life.。
It will produce thorns and thistles for you, and you will eat the plants of the field.。
By the sweat of your brow you will eat the food until you return to the ground since。
from which you were taken.。
For dust you are, and to dust you will return."。
So in trying to explain the impact that sin has had on the essential rhythms for human。
flourishing, God says, "Don't you realize that now work and rest is going to be completely。
different for you."。
Notice the language he uses here.。
He says, "It will now be a place of toil for you.。
It will be a place where there will be a sweat of your brow."。
Like this is not a good thing.。
What was supposed to be a place of your great flourishing will now become a place of burden.。
I want you to see something really important here, church.。
God is not saying work is evil.。
He's saying humanity is evil.。
He's not saying work is sinful.。
He's saying humanity is sinful.。
He's saying now the ground is cursed because of you.。
Because of what you've done.。
Because of the reality of bringing sin into this world.。
Everything now changes, and here's what's produced.。
What's produced is a breakdown in all of those relational contexts, and now a desire for。
us to try to fix things.。
Because before we were fully filled in peace with our relationship with God, our relationship。
with ourselves, our relationship with others, our relationship with creation.。
Now everything has wrecked.。
And because everything's wrecked, we think now as humans, how do we get back to Genesis。
1 and 2?。
And here's what we end up doing.。
We take that burden onto our shoulders.。
In the place of feeling uncomfortable about how everything is broken around us, we try。
to fix everything.。
And when humanity tries to fix everything, guess what happens?。
You get exhausted.。
You see, when our relationship with God is broken, here's our immediate fix for it.。
Well, I guess I'm going to have to be God myself.。
Well, I'm going to have to take on all the responsibilities.。
I'm going to have to try hard.。
I'm going to have to provide for everyone.。
I'm going to have to control everything around me, and that is exhausting.。
When our relationship with ourselves breaks, here's what happens.。
The Bible calls it that we have an orphan spirit inside of us.。
In other words, we no longer have a connection with our Father.。
We no longer have that, "This is my son, whom I love.。
With him I am well pleased."。
Instead, we feel torn apart inside of us.。
We feel shame about who we are because of the sin on us.。
And so we try to cover that up as best we can, or we try to prove that we're worthy。
of love, or prove that we're somebody in this world.。
And we try to label success upon ourselves, or strive really hard to try to make a name。
for ourselves, and we wonder why we're exhausted.。
And then our relationship with others breaks, which makes sense because if this thing's。
broken and if this thing's broken, then we're going to really struggle to make this thing。
work.。
And as we look around us and the relationships in our lives, here's what happens.。
We start trying to create relationships to try to fill the void that is inside of us.。
And so we find and we move from relationship to relationship, from dating to dating, sometimes。
from marriages to marriages.。
And we're trying to use people around us to try to feel better about what's broken inside。
of us, and we wonder why we're exhausted.。
And then even our relationship with creation breaks, and either we just ignore it and exploit。
it and couldn't care less, or we do the opposite, which is, I think, even worse.。
Well, maybe not worse, but just as bad.。
We worship it.。
We think that creation is the place that's going to fix everything.。
And so it's mother nature this and mother nature that, and if only I can get back to。
the rhythms of the earth.。
We become new age and we worship creation around us.。
All of these things are happening in our lives, and they create a drive within us to try to。
fix ourselves because of the brokenness of sin.。
I call this a striving mentality.。
Are you following this?。
All of us have this striving mentality.。
Think about it, where we were once operating out of a place of rest into a place of thriving。
before sin, now we are operating out of a place of disorder into a place of striving。
because of sin.。
You follow that?。
And this striving mentality that is in work around all of us is causing us to try to prove。
ourselves, try to work harder, to try to do this and that, and we're trying to do something。
which we were never created in the first place to do, and we are burnt out, we are exhausted,。
we are weary, we are stressed, and it is a horrible way to live.。
And when we're finding all of that at work within us, no wonder there's this disruption。
inside of us.。
And we're trying to fix ourselves and we realize that we can't.。
What we have to understand is that any time we strive to try to restore what is broken。
within us because of sin in any other source other than Jesus himself, we will only become。
more and more exhausted and less and less free.。
Come on, church.。
It's just the reality of the human life.。
This was how the people in the first century were feeling.。
They weren't in need of some nice drink on the beach in Bali.。
They were in need of a revolution in their soul.。
They were in need of becoming what it really truly meant to be human again.。
And so Jesus shows up and he says these words, and I wonder if they'll sound a little different。
to you now.。
"Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest."。
The words that Jesus uses for weary and burdened here, weary means striving to the point of。
exhaustion, working to the point where I have nothing left in energy.。
The word burdened here literally means carrying a weight which I cannot bear or being overwhelmed。
in heaviness that I was not created to carry.。
These are the only two times in the whole of the gospels that Jesus uses these specific。
words.。
He's talking into what happened because of sin in Genesis 3, and he's saying, "If any。
of you here feel this weariness, feel this burden, there is help."。
What is the help?。
He says, "Come to me."。
I love this.。
Jesus doesn't offer a 12-step plan to reduce striving in your life.。
Jesus doesn't give a guide or a strategy to try to help you to balance better the stress。
around you.。
God is not interested in reducing your striving.。
He wants to eliminate it.。
Come on, church.。
He's not interested in just helping you to manage your stress a little better.。
He doesn't want you to have three days off, four days off, and only work two or three。
days and get the balance better.。
Jesus wants to eliminate the need that you have to rest by discovering that in relationship。
with him, we find our rest.。
That our relationship with him changes everything for us.。
And Jesus says, "Come to me."。
He doesn't say, "Earn me."。
He doesn't say, "Work hard for me."。
He doesn't say, "Try to prove yourself for me."。
Us Christians, we get this wrong all the time.。
We take our striving mentality to try to make ourselves look like something in the world。
around us, and we apply that to our faith in Jesus.。
And because striving has become such an embedded part of our orphan spirit, when it comes to。
Jesus, we strive to win his affections.。
We strive to do more Bible studies.。
We strive to do this.。
We work to prove that we are worthy of being loved.。
I love what Jesus says here.。
He says, "Come to me, all you who are perfect."。
No, he doesn't say that.。
He doesn't say, "Come to me, all you who are feeling good about life."。
No, "Come to me, all you who deserve to be in my presence."。
He says, "Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened."。
In other words, he doesn't say, "Clean yourself up and then come to me."。
He doesn't say, "Get better and then come to me."。
He doesn't say, "Hey, do a bunch of Bible studies, then come to me."。
He says, "No, I'm here in the weary and the burden that you're feeling right now, in your。
exhaustion and stress."。
The only qualification you need for Jesus is a weariness and a burden.。
The only qualification you need for Jesus is a weariness and a burden.。
The needier you are, the more perfect you are for Jesus.。
Oh, isn't that beautiful?。
Like the needier you are, like the more stressed out...。
Now, that doesn't mean that we try to get stressed out so that we can have a relationship。
with Jesus.。
Okay, don't take it to its extreme, but you know what I'm saying.。
Like we're qualified.。
Are you with me?。
We're qualified because we're sinners in need of a Savior.。
And Jesus doesn't expect you to get perfect.。
He says, "Come to me now, like today, like in the place of your stress, in the place。
of your sin, in the place of your weariness, in the place of your burden, in the weight。
that you can no longer carry.。
Come to me and I will give you rest right now.。
I will take it off your shoulders."。
How does he do that?。
How does God take it off our shoulders?。
That's what he says in the second half of the verse here.。
I love this.。
He says, "Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart。
and you will find rest for your souls.。
For my yoke is easy and my burden is light."。
I love this.。
Jesus is so counter-cultural and sometimes he says things that seem so counterproductive.。
Like he's just said, "Come to me and I will give you rest."。
And then he says, "Take a yoke upon you."。
And you're like, "Hang on a second.。
That doesn't sound like drinks on the beach in Bali.。
That doesn't sound like what I need."。
Because let me tell you what I need, Jesus.。
Anybody ever tell Jesus what you need?。
Let me tell you what I need, Jesus.。
I need this cessation of work.。
I need to put work down.。
I need to get rid of all of the yokes.。
I don't need to have any shackles.。
I don't want to have any responsibilities.。
All I want to do is be at your feet, Jesus.。
And Jesus is like, "No, you need to understand.。
You need to go back to Genesis 1 and 2 and remember what are the two essential flourishings。
for humanity?。
The gift of work and the gift of rest.。
And when you bring those back through relationship with me into the place where they should be,。
then everything changes."。
So he's saying, "I'm not inviting you to a cessation of work.。
I'm not inviting you to a permanent, eternal holiday.。
I'm inviting you to fresh work.。
Take your yoke on me.。
My yoke on you."。
Now a yoke, in case you're not aware, was a wooden beam that was created and shaped。
for farmers.。
And it would be a wooden beam like this that would have two loops around it that would。
get fastened on the neck of animals so that two animals would be yoked together, kind。
of caught up together.。
Normally, it would be oxen, and they would, through the yoke, maybe drag a plow through。
a field or they might drag a cart to the market, taking goods to the market.。
So this yoke with the things around it were for these two oxen.。
Now here's what you may not know.。
In the yoke, it was mostly made by carpenters.。
Come on, guys.。
Yokes were made of wood.。
Carpenters didn't make nice rickety chairs to put on the porch so you can go back and。
forth on.。
Carpenters, in Jesus' day, made farming tools when they lived in Nazareth and Galilee.。
So the chances are Jesus made a number of yokes before.。
So here's a yoke.。
Now what farmers would do is they would take a big, strong, heavy ox and they would take。
a less strong ox and they would yoke those two together.。
Rarely would they yoke two strong oxes together.。
Normally, a stronger ox and a slightly weaker ox.。
Why?。
Because the weaker ox, they're trying to grow up to be a strong ox.。
So then in the future, the weaker ox would then be the one on the right side carrying。
the heavy burden, and then there would be a more junior ox alongside of it.。
So a farmer would always take a strong ox and a slightly less strong ox and yoke them。
together.。
Now the strong ox would have a part of the yoke that fit over them and was tight and。
snug which meant they would carry more of the weight.。
The younger ox would have a slightly looser noose around it which mean it would still。
carry some weight but not as much as a strong ox.。
Are you with me?。
And the point of this was that the young ox would learn from the stronger ox how to carry。
more weight and over time would mature enough to be able to take on the fuller load.。
So Jesus says, "You're living life wrong.。
You're stressed out and striving because you've got a striving mentality.。
Come to me because I'm the only one that can deal with striving because of the death and。
resurrection on the cross.。
When you come in relationship to me, I will release you from a striving lifestyle and。
place you back into a renewal of work that is right and good."。
It's still like in Genesis 1 and 2, a partnership with God.。
You now have a partnership.。
You're yoked now with me.。
And he's like, he doesn't say this but he's basically saying, "I'm the heavy yoke.。
I'm the ox in here that's carrying most of the weight.。
I'm going to share the load with you but there's still a burden for you to carry.。
There's still a yoke that you should have.。
There's still something that is around you."。
But and this is why he says in the passage, he says, "Learn from me.。
Come on."。
He says, "Learn from me.。
Be with me.。
I'm going to partner with you, walk alongside of you.。
I'm not suddenly going to wave a magic wand and suddenly all your stresses and your troubles。
will go away.。
But I will yoke myself to your burden.。
I will be the one who will carry most of that burden.。
I will stand with you, walk with you, come alongside of you.。
I will take the heavy load.。
I'm not going to totally release the load from you because there's stuff you can learn。
from me that will strengthen you to be more like me so that in Ephesians 4 you will become。
more like the likeness of Christ."。
So in becoming like Jesus, he says, "Take this yoke on me," which is really a profound。
thought.。
And he says these words, he says, "For my yoke is easy and my burden is light."。
The word for easy that he uses here means my yoke is kind or good or other translations,。
it's well fitted for you.。
I love that.。
This is Jesus saying, "You were always created to work.。
Work was well fitted to you before sin.。
And now because of sin and the striving mentality, we're all exhausted, absolutely.。
So come to me.。
I in my resurrection can give you the fullness of life and I will yoke you to me.。
We will partner again for work that is truly good."。
See this is biblical rest, not an invitation to the cessation of work because we're exhausted。
from our striving, but an invitation to the renewal of work because we have dealt with。
our striving.。
Isn't that nice?。
That actually maybe there is some amazing things that we get to do with our hands, that。
we get to join God with the paintbrush and the paint on the beautiful work that he's。
got in the world around us.。
But there are some things like the great commission, some things like the sermon of the mount,。
some things that are a weight upon us, but it's a glorious way.。
It's the way to the gospel, sharing hope into the world around us.。
And this is what we are invited to.。
Come to me, all you are weary and burdened and I will give you rest.。
Take my yoke upon you.。
And he says, "My yoke is easy.。
My burden is light, but there is still a yoke and there is still a burden."。
So you need to understand that what Jesus is teaching us here is that there is no such。
thing as a yokeless life.。
Come on church, no such thing as a yokeless life.。
Jesus is not promising a life without responsibility, a life without hard work.。
He's not promising a life where suddenly it's a gravy chain and kumbaya with him.。
No there is no such thing as a yokeless life.。
And actually what Jesus is saying in this passage, when he says, "Take my yoke upon。
you," is he's saying, "You better remove all the other yokes that are around your neck。
right now."。
It's like he's asking, I think, the reader and the hearer of that time and us today a。
question, "What is it that I'm currently yoked to?"。
Because if I stand before you today like I do, and I'm feeling exhausted and tired, I'm。
feeling overwhelmed and somewhat stressed, and I'm feeling the weight of the world and。
anxiety upon me, and I'm trying to prove that I'm a great pastor in front of all these people,。
then I have to realize that I am not currently yoked to Jesus.。
Are you with me?。
Because if we believe what he's saying here is true, that his yoke is easy and his burden。
is light, if I'm stressed out and exhausted, I better be asking myself, "I'm yoked to something。
other than Jesus."。
That's the starting point to coming to him, is to recognize what it is that you're currently。
getting yoked to.。
And I want you to understand, if you are yoked to anything other than Jesus, nothing else。
in creation has been made to carry the weight.。
That means you are going to be carrying the weight.。
It is going to be a burden to you, which is why you're feeling exhausted.。
And listen to this, you can be yoked to things that are actually on the surface good, but。
are not Jesus, and you will still feel exhausted.。
Some of you in this room, you are yoked to the vine.。
That's not good.。
We are not Jesus.。
Some of you in this room, you're yoked to a relationship.。
That's not good, because that person is not Jesus.。
Some of you here are yoked to your job, yoked to success, yoked to feeling better about。
yourself because you've achieved something, and that's not good because none of that is。
Jesus.。
If we are yoked ourselves to something other than Christ, we will end up taking the burden。
and we will end up feeling exhausted, and we will strive and strive and strive, thinking。
that we can fix it.。
And Jesus is like the burning bush saying, "Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened,。
and I will give you rest."。
Amen.。
Would you stand with me?。
I would love to pray for you.。
Would you just be comfortable if this has been helpful for you this morning, just to。
open your hands?。
Father, we just are grateful that in this moment we get to stand before you, and we。
get to stand before you just as we are.。
No pretense.。
No trying to pretend.。
Not trying to fix ourselves or make ourselves any better than we are.。
Lord, I thank you that your invitation was to all, not to a certain few or a select few.。
Father, I want to pray for each person here in this room where they came in today feeling。
exhausted, weary, burdened, with the pressures of the world on their shoulders.。
Lord, we know that life is challenging and difficult.。
Lord, we understand that life is not easy, and that you don't promise us a perfect, easy,。
suffering, free life.。
But when you said to the crowds, "Come to me if you're weary and burdened, and I will。
give you rest, I'll give you rest for your soul," you say.。
Lord, that's the rest that we truly need.。
And we're thankful for holidays.。
That's great.。
We're thankful for days off.。
They're needed.。
But what you're talking about in this passage is not Sabbath, but Shalom.。
What you're talking about in this passage is not a break from work, but a releasing。
of the striving in work.。
And so Lord, for every single person here who recognizes that they've been operating。
out of an orphan spirit, that their striving is related to their ability to be accepted,。
to be loved, to be someone.。
Lord, would you forgive us where we look to the world to give to us what only you can。
provide for us?。
A new identity as sons and daughters, children of God, ones who are able to cry, "Abba,。
Father," where the orphan spirit no longer is upon us, but the spirit of life and life。
abundant.。
For you have not come to kill and destroy, to make shame, to make us feel weary and burdened,。
but you have come to give us life and life to its full.。
So if you are sensing that weariness, if you're sensing that burden, would you just open your。
hands before the Lord?。
I want to pray that the Spirit of God would minister to you personally, directly.。
And I feel like the Holy Spirit is wanting you to be honest with him this morning about。
what it is that you recognize you're currently yoked to.。
And as I was saying earlier, look, there's nothing wrong with churches.。
They're great and we want you to love your church.。
There's nothing wrong with relationships, they're needed, and we want you to love the。
people in your life.。
There's nothing wrong with a great job and success and working hard and earning good。
money.。
Nothing wrong with any of that.。
But when those things become the thing that we are yoked to, that's the thing that Jesus。
has an issue with.。
He's like, "The only thing I want you to be yoked to is me.。
Because when you're yoked to me, my yoke is easy.。
It's well fitted to you.。
It's not going to be a burden.。
There'll still be some weight.。
There'll still be some challenge, but it's not going to be overwhelming.。
You're not going to be exhausted.。
You're not going to be burnt out for I will be carrying the heavier load and we will be。
partnering together in the renewal of all things."。
So Lord, I want to pray for a renewal of work amongst the people in this room, not a desire。
to escape it, to cease from it, a desire to escape the world and to fall into a place。
of rest.。
I want to pray for a movement of God's people out of rest into the renewal of work and life。
ahead of them.。
I want to pray that the Great Commission and the Sermon on the Mount would be a joy in。
our hands, that the gospel would feel light, not a burden, but a burden that is light,。
that we would recognize that in all that we do, whether it's a banker or a lawyer or a。
teacher or a nurse or a doctor or a homemaker, a domestic helper, whatever it might be, even。
if we're not currently working right now, we are partnered and yoked with Jesus.。
And that in that we find new liberation in life for the glory of His name.。
So it is come Holy Spirit, come.。
So I want to encourage you just to receive what the Spirit of God has for you here this。
morning.。
And as you receive it, we're going to worship together as a community before Him.。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
