Let me pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says?。
Amen.。
Can we give Jesus a big round of applause?。
Thank you, Lord.。
Have a seat, have a seat.。
Welcome to the Vine.。
My name's Andrew.。
I'm one of the pastors here, and it's great to be with you this morning.。
I want to be really honest and vulnerable with you up front here this morning and let。
you know that the topic that I want to teach on this morning is one that I'm doing out。
of a place of very deep and personal conviction.。
I want to teach you today on the topic of being prepared for the persecution that may。
come for standing boldly for our faith in a time of historical cultural change.。
I want to talk about that because I think the Lord is preparing His bride for the season。
to come, and it's something that He's been speaking to me and dealing with me in my own。
life for over the last year or so.。
And in this series that we're in right now where we're looking at the values that the。
Lord placed in the disciples to enable them to be that victorious church in an uncharted。
season of sharing the gospel in the Greco-Roman Empire, I think it's this value that we're。
looking at today that I struggle with the most.。
It's the value, if I could put it most distinctly, it would be this.。
The value that the early church had was a personal and a communal willingness to be。
persecuted for their faith.。
A personal and a communal willingness to be persecuted for their faith.。
And I think in a year where the Lord is saying to the divine church, "This is a year where。
I want you to live your faith more publicly.。
It's a year where I'm moving you into an uncharted season where you're going to be out of your。
comfort zone and you're going to be in places where you've never been before."。
I think our own personal and communal willingness to be bold and courageous for the gospel,。
even though that might create some pushback, might create some critique, might create some。
adverse responses from the people that are around us.。
Our willingness, our ability to still push forward for the gospel despite the criticism。
that might come, that is going to be foundational for whether the church in Hong Kong is going。
to move forward in victory or retreat in the years ahead.。
And because this is so important, the Holy Spirit has been showing me that I lack preparation。
for it, that I personally feel that I lack the readiness that I need for what might be。
ahead for us.。
I know that I recognize in me just quite a bit of fear and anxiety as a church leader。
in this time, as somebody who menaces in the pulpit in this time.。
I can feel in me that tension to want to be silent when I should find my loudest voice.。
I think the reality is that the Holy Spirit has been challenging me deeply in this area。
because I think He wants to challenge all of us in this area.。
One of the things that the Holy Spirit has been saying to me quite abruptly is He's been。
reminding me of the moment when Paul wrote to the church in Rome when they were under。
an incredible season of persecution, and he wrote this.。
He said, "I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation for。
those who believe."。
I am not ashamed of the gospel.。
The Holy Spirit has been challenging me as to whether I actually believe that, and if。
I believe that, then whether I'm going to be as bold in my time as Paul was in his.。
I think that's the great challenge that sits on me as I bring this word to you today.。
I want you to know right up front that what I'm preaching you today is coming from a place。
of conviction rather than confidence.。
I don't stand before you arrogant, bold, and always courageous for the things of God.。
I stand before you as someone who's personally wrestling with the need for repentance for。
the fear that I have for being bold in my faith in this time.。
Maybe that resonates with you.。
Maybe the topic of persecution is one that you kind of just push to one side in your。
life.。
Maybe it's one that you recognize is important in our time at this time, but is one that。
you maybe haven't thought about too deeply.。
I wonder whether maybe some of us in this room feel that same way, that there's a sense。
of anxiety, sensitivity, a sense of maybe that fear that might be there because of that。
in our future.。
If that's the case, then I think we're all in good company here because we come submitted。
to the victory that is in Christ Jesus, even though at times we wrestle ourselves with。
how we might feel.。
Amen?。
I want to pray for us as we open the word together here this morning.。
Lord, I thank you so much for the power that is in your word.。
And Father, as we open Scripture, as we look at the journey that the early church had,。
as we think about our own personal lives, as we wrestle with this call that is upon。
us to live our faith more publicly in the year ahead, Lord, I want to pray for humility.。
I want to pray for the conviction of your word, but I also want to pray for the confidence。
that comes through the victory found in the cross of Christ.。
And Lord, out of that place of victory, we as a church might move forward boldly in a。
season where we need to find our loudest voice.。
We thank you for this in your name.。
Amen.。
A quick review of church history will show you that whenever God calls the church to。
live boldly for the faith in a time of political, cultural, societal change, persecution always。
comes.。
And when you see that and recognize that, you'll notice through church history that。
when that persecution comes, the church sometimes is strong and stands faithful.。
And sometimes the church is weakened and retreats.。
And if I think about what's happening in the globe at the moment, if we look at global,。
political, social, and cultural change that's, I think, happening at unprecedented rates。
around the world right now, I think a time has come again where the church is being tested。
and where the church is being asked whether it really does stand on the solid rock of。
Jesus Christ and his word or whether it's on the shifting sands of popular opinion and。
its comfort.。
And I truly believe that here in our city, if the church is going to be faithful and。
if the church is going to be victorious in the years ahead, we're going to have to embrace。
this same value that the early church had to embrace and wrestle with, this willingness。
to be persecuted for our faith.。
And I think one of the important things is that we just need to be prepared for it.。
Here's the thing that I want to say right up front.。
If we're not prepared for the challenge, the inevitable negative reaction that will come。
from each one of us living our faith more boldly and publicly in the year ahead, then。
here's what will happen.。
We will all too easily compromise the gospel and as a result, we will diminish its power.。
That's what will happen.。
If we're not prepared, if we're not ready, when it comes, we will too easily compromise。
the gospel and we will therefore ultimately diminish its power.。
We have to understand that in a season where God is calling his church to the uncharted,。
it is always a call to more radically live out the purposes and the values of the kingdom。
of God and understanding that that may therefore cause us to rub up against where the peoples。
or structures or society that may not agree or accept the thing that we're standing for.。
We have to understand that the kingdom that we believe as Christians is different from。
the structures that are found in this world.。
This has always been the Jesus way, the call to faith in Christ Jesus, the adventure of。
following Jesus.。
It's not an adventure to an easy, comfortable or straightforward life.。
It is a calling into a place where we have to walk a narrow path that few actually journey。
on.。
It's a place where we have to recognize that there is a clash of systems that happen when。
we want to live it faithfully in this world.。
I love the way that British theologian John Stott has put it.。
Let me read this to you from him.。
He says, "Persecution is simply the clash between two irreconcilable value systems,。
that the word of God and his spirit of love and the world of the flesh and its spirit。
of greed."。
I think that's so profoundly beautiful that it is this clash of two, I love this, irreconcilable。
value systems.。
When we understand that, we should understand, well, this is why therefore Jesus himself。
was persecuted for living out his message and for the way in which he lived it out and。
the things that he said and the way that he acted in the Greco-Roman culture around him。
of his day.。
Jesus was persecuted by every strata of society.。
Of course, by the Greco-Roman authorities eventually in his killing on the cross, from。
the Jewish religious authorities around him who labeled him a heretic, from the crowds。
that had initially gathered around him in joy and yet as his teachings got stronger。
and stronger, began to fade away, to even his disciples and his best friends, who when。
persecution really came, were the first to either betray him or deny him publicly.。
And Jesus understood that in the persecution he had experienced in sending out the disciples。
with the call of the Great Commission and this beautiful idea of what it is to live。
God's values in the world around us.。
He understood that in sending the Holy Spirit upon them to empower them in that journey,。
that he was necessarily sending them into the same structures, the same irreconcilable。
systems, the same reality that there might be persecution ahead.。
I love the way he says it actually in John 15, 20.。
Let me read this to you.。
He says, "Remember the word that I said to you," this is Jesus speaking to his disciples,。
"A servant is not greater than his master.。
If they persecuted me, they will persecute you also."。
And so the starting point when we come to a topic like this is that we should not be。
surprised.。
Peter actually himself writes, "Do not be surprised by the fiery trial that you're going。
through."。
The church should not be caught unawares.。
We should not be surprised by the reality that there are two irreconcilable value systems。
and that we're going to rub up against it.。
That doesn't mean that we go out looking for persecution.。
Hear this, the goal of the Christian is not to find persecution.。
The goal of the Christian is to be obedient to Jesus and submit our lives to him.。
But the reality is as we live the goal and the purposes of our faith, the reality is。
there is an inevitable clash that will lead perhaps to some true and real persecution.。
Our starting point is to be prepared.。
And this was the thought for the early church as they began to disciple their church.。
They had heard Jesus say exactly this in John 15, 20, and they went into raising up leaders。
for the church and the Greek and Roman culture around them with this particular readiness,。
with a preparation to be persecuted.。
I want to read you how Paul does this so beautifully, I think, for one of his young prodigies, Timothy.。
And this is right when Paul is sending Timothy out to be a pastor in the church of Ephesus.。
Timothy was not there when Jesus was ministering.。
Timothy came later, was raised up, came to faith, and Paul then sends him out to do the。
work of church.。
Notice what he says to him here in 2 Timothy 3 verse 10.。
He says, "You, however," speaking of Timothy, "know all about my teaching, my way of life,。
my purpose, my faith, my patience, my love, endurance, my persecutions, my sufferings.。
What kinds of things happened to me in Antioch, Iconium, and Lystra, the persecutions I endured.。
Yet the Lord rescued me from all of them."。
Notice that.。
He didn't say, "The Lord rescued me from some of them, from all of these persecutions."。
In fact, everyone, notice this, "who wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will。
be persecuted."。
Isn't that a happy verse?。
We don't like to teach on these verses.。
Everyone, that includes you, everyone who wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus。
will be persecuted, he says.。
"While evil men and imposters will go from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived."。
In other words, the church is going to suffer persecution and everybody on the other side。
will be seen to rise.。
You notice this?。
Church will feel like this, everybody else is going to feel like this.。
And then he says, "But as for you, continue in what you have learned and become convinced。
of because you know those from whom you have learned it.。
And how from infancy you have known the holy scriptures which are able to make you wise。
for salvation through faith in Jesus Christ."。
I love what Paul does here.。
He starts out by saying to his young mentee, "Okay, you know how I've lived my life.。
You know all the good things.。
You know my endurance, my patience, my loving, the way I've ministered the gospel.。
You've seen all the good things, Timothy, but you've also seen the bad and ugly things.。
You've seen the sufferings I've had to endure, the persecutions."。
When Paul's writing this to Timothy, this is towards the end of Paul's life, he's been。
arrested, he's been beaten, he's been shipwrecked, he's been imprisoned.。
I mean, basically everything that could happen to him other than death has happened to him。
because of his faith in Christ Jesus.。
And so he's writing to Timothy, he's saying, "You know all about this.。
You know about the persecutions.。
You know about the sufferings."。
And he says this, "Anyone who wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted."。
Notice what he says here.。
He does not say everyone who believes in Jesus will be persecuted.。
Come on, church.。
He says everyone who wants to live a godly life.。
In other words, there's a choice like Ellison was talking about last week.。
There's a choice before the church whether we will just believe in Jesus or live a godly。
life in Jesus.。
And believing in Jesus is easy.。
Living a godly life in Jesus, that's a whole different thing.。
And Paul is trying to get across to Timothy, "Here's what I want you to do.。
I want you to live a godly life in Jesus, but when you do so, don't be surprised that。
it's going to be hard.。
If you want easy, don't live a godly life in Christ Jesus."。
And he's saying this to Timothy because he knows what Timothy's about to go through.。
And the godly life is defined for Paul like he had just explained.。
This loving life, this life of living before the world, the hope of Christ Jesus, wanting。
to forgive your enemies and love those who persecute you, wanting to live a person of。
radical forgiveness and grace, wanting to be yeast in dough, wanting to share the gospel。
because you want to see people come to relationship with Jesus, wanting to stand for the things。
that the kingdom stands for, doing it from a place of love, not from a pace of rebellion。
or wanting to disrupt the world, but from a place of loving the world.。
I want to love this world so much that I will not be ashamed of the gospel.。
So what Paul's saying is, if you want to live a public life of faith, then you need to realize。
that you're going to be persecuted, which if you follow Paul, this is really good, you。
might want to write this down.。
Here's how to avoid persecution, live a private life of Christ Jesus.。
Take your faith, which is a bright light, and put a basket on top of it.。
That's the best way to avoid persecution.。
If you want an easy life, just believe in him and know that one day you'll go to heaven.。
And if you believe in him, you will one day go to heaven.。
Belief in Jesus is so important.。
But if you want to live the way in which the Bible is saying we should live our faith,。
then you do not take your light and put it under a basket, but you let your light shine。
before all this world.。
And if you're going to commit to that, then you have to recognize it's not going to be。
easy.。
Paul says that sufferings will come and that these sufferings will be hard.。
Paul's not saying that every suffering you will ever experience as a Christian should。
be labeled persecution.。
Because sometimes we suffer for our own sin.。
Sometimes we suffer because we make mistakes and bad decisions.。
Sometimes we suffer because of somebody else's sin and their bad mistakes.。
He's not saying every suffering that you ever have is a persecution.。
I think sometimes the church can be a little bit like that.。
It's like, "Oh man, I'm suffering so bad.。
I'm under persecution because I lost my job."。
And it's like, "Well, maybe you lost your job because you did something dumb."。
Are you with me?。
It's not everything that we do is therefore labeled persecution.。
What Paul's saying is if you live a godly life and in living a godly life, in other。
words, as you devote yourself to Christ and live in a way of devotion to Christ and persecution,。
suffering comes, you can label that persecution.。
It is the suffering that comes from our devotion to Christ.。
And that devotion to Christ is the preeminent thing that we do.。
And the suffering can be real.。
It can be emotional and psychological suffering, name-calling, being made to feel like on the。
outside of things, being shunned by the people that you used to be accepted by.。
Maybe those in your family or those in your offices turning their back on you or saying。
things behind your back or even saying things to your face.。
It can be emotionally and psychological suffering.。
It can be like for Paul, physical suffering, beatings and floggings, which actually still。
occurs in our world today because of faith in Christ Jesus.。
Or maybe in our level, it might be losing our jobs because of the value systems that。
we hold and how they've rubbed up against the employer that we're working for.。
Or perhaps our financial challenges that might come to us because of our devotion in Christ。
Jesus.。
There could be a number of ways that it can happen physically for us.。
I think it's also spiritual.。
We can have spiritual suffering.。
We can have an attack from the enemy because of the way in which we're living our lives.。
That's a very real thing as well.。
And then there are some dramatic things that take place.。
There's even imprisonment and death, not just in the first century, which we see throughout。
the pages of Acts, but in our world today, in countries not too far from this one.。
That is still happening today.。
So there's this idea that there's this suffering that's going to happen.。
And here's the thing that I felt the Holy Spirit been challenging me around.。
Am I really, and I mean really, prepared to suffer for my faith?。
Am I really prepared to take what might come, not again because I'm looking for it, not。
because I'm going out there to stir up trouble, but as I'm living a godly life for Christ。
Jesus in the world that is as it is right now, am I really willing to press on with。
my faith even if suffering might come?。
Or do I recognize within me the need to fit in too much, the need to be accepted too much,。
the need to not want to upset people too much, the need of fear of what people might think。
around me too much, or whatever it might be.。
That sits on my spirit and it weighs on me.。
And here's how I think I've been processing it.。
I've recognized, and this is just an honest confession before you, I've recognized that。
sometimes my faith is too shallow.。
It's too shallow.。
And what I mean by that is that at the nearest hint of somebody who might be upset at me。
because of something I've said, I am tempted to assimilate to that person.。
And as I've been wrestling with this, I felt the Holy Spirit has led me to a personal passage.。
I want to read this to you because it might resonate with some of you as well.。
In Matthew 13, there's a beautiful parable of the sower.。
You know the parable probably, the scattering of seed and some of it falls on certain ground,。
rocky ground and soil that doesn't accept it and other soils that do.。
And then Jesus explains the parable a little bit later in the passage.。
I want to pick up from verse 20.。
Notice this, he says, "The one who has received the seed that fell on rocky soil or rocky。
ground is the person who hears the word and at once receives it with joy.。
But since he has no root, he lasts only for a short time.。
When trouble or persecution comes because of the word, he quickly falls away."。
Jesus led me to that passage and this was like Jesus, you know those moments where you。
know that Jesus is lovingly convicting you.。
And he led me to that passage and he's like, "Andrew, you're kind of like the rocky ground。
sometimes.。
You're like the rocky ground where my word comes to you and you accept it with joy, but。
there is not a lot of root sometimes.。
And when there's not root, when the wind comes and the storms come and the stuff comes, it's。
very easy for that word just to get lost in you."。
And I recognize that I wrestle with this.。
And so as the Lord brought that passage to mind, I began to pray and ask the Lord, "Why。
am I shallow?。
What's going on?。
What keeps me shallow sometimes in my faith?"。
And he came and said something to me, which I journaled.。
I want to read this to you.。
He said this.。
I'm just being very honest with you, by the way, today.。
I hope that's okay.。
Welcome to the Vine.。
"Andrew, I am both your Savior and your Lord.。
You need to be careful you don't just live as if I am only your Savior."。
And I think this is so profound, or at least it was for me, that there is this idea that。
He is our Savior and our Lord.。
But so often, this is what keeps us shallow, we just keep Him being our Savior and we don't。
submit to Him as Lord.。
And when that happens, here's what it is.。
We like the fact that we have that ticket out of here.。
We like the fact that our sins are forgiven.。
We like the fact that we have someone to go to, to offer, and to know that we are forgiven。
and redeemed and saved, but then we fail to fully submit our everyday life to Him.。
And so He's our Savior, yes, but can we actually say that He's our Lord?。
And I think what Jesus was saying to me, and perhaps what He's trying to say to us as the。
church here this morning, is that how we go deep is we move beyond just the recognition。
of Him as our Savior, and because He is our Savior, because of the work of the cross,。
because of the grace of forgiveness, we don't keep it cheap.。
And we actually press to a place of deep-rooted obedience and submission to His laws, to His。
love, to His challenges, to His conviction, to His Word, living a godly life out of a。
place of reverent submission to Him.。
That's the root.。
And so Jesus must be for us at the Vine as we move into this time of uncharted both Savior。
and Lord, and if you're anything like me, perhaps you get this part well and this one。
you struggle with sometimes.。
And in that, we have to wrestle with the honesty of coming to Him in confession and saying,。
"I know You are Savior and Lord.。
Hold me back from just living like You're my Savior only."。
As the church wrestles with this, I think it begins to position us in a place where。
we can begin to respond, because this is not just a personal thing, it's also a communal。
thing.。
We can be churches that are what I would call rocky-ground churches.。
Oh, eager to worship, eager to put our hands up, eager to have a great moment on a Sunday。
together, and yet where's the depth?。
Where is the obedience?。
Where is the submission to what the Father is saying amongst us?。
And I do not want the Vine to be a rocky-ground church.。
And I recognize I don't want to be a rocky-ground person.。
How do we change this?。
I was reminded of something I read recently by Leonard Ravenhill.。
Let me read you what he said.。
I think this is so challenging.。
"The early church was married to poverty, prisons, and persecutions.。
Today, the church is married to prosperity, personality, and popularity."。
I think when that happens, a church has Jesus as their Savior, but not as their Lord.。
When that happens, we seek all the benefits of relationship with Him without any of the。
responsibility.。
I was in a conversation a few years ago with an incredible pastor who lives in an Asian。
country that is well-known for its persecution of Christians.。
And we were talking about the church, the global church.。
And as we were in conversation together about the global church, he said this thing to me.。
He said, "The church in the West has had years of prosperity, and it has weakened."。
And he says, "It's interesting, because the church in my country has had years of persecution,。
but we have only strengthened."。
And then he said this, and this blew my mind.。
He said, "Persecution is much better than prosperity when it comes to the gospel."。
And I felt a deep conviction when he said that, and I feel it now as I'm sharing it。
with you.。
And this conviction of saying true revival will come when we actually honor and understand。
that, when we're willing to live a godly life in Christ Jesus boldly and courageously, despite。
how that will rub us up against that irreconcilable value system, and yet do so in a place of。
love, even in a place of joy.。
How do we do that?。
Notice what Paul says here in this passage.。
He lays it out for Timothy.。
He's not trying to give Timothy a hard time, because he says, "But as for you," verse 14,。
"continue in what you have learned and become convinced of, because you know those from。
whom you have learned it."。
That's the first thing.。
He says, "You want to go deep."。
He says, "Continue to meet together like this.。
Continue to submit yourself under the Word of God in a public setting.。
Continue to have your small group and have fellowship in your small group.。
Continue to learn under those that you have respect for, those that you have seen, how。
they've lived their lives.。
Continue to submit yourself under an environment where you are learning and growing from the。
people that you respect, whether that's a church on a Sunday, whether that's a small。
group during the week."。
He's basically saying, "Look, commit to that."。
But then notice what he says, verse 15, "And how from empathy you have known the Holy Scriptures."。
So he's saying there's a two-fold rootedness that takes place for you.。
If you want to grow rooted in the gospel to live a godly life, it comes from this moment,。
submitting yourselves in fellowship to a church community, but it also comes from taking up。
your own personal responsibility of being in the Word of God.。
The Holy Scriptures that he says to Timothy, "You've known since you're young.。
Don't give up on the Scriptures that you've read, that you've studied, that you've done。
the hard work in, and don't give up on what you've learned from those around you that。
you respect."。
Those two-pronged things.。
That's the way that you put roots down deep in the kingdom of God, no matter what might。
come.。
And I think it's those two things.。
The understanding of who Jesus was and how they had been with Jesus, they had learned。
from him and they'd seen him, as well as their own reflections and understanding of the Scriptures。
enabled the early church to stand up with this value of the willingness to be persecuted。
for their faith.。
Let me take you just quickly to a passage where this gets illuminated to us from Acts。
chapter 5.。
Acts chapter 5, starting in verse 27, says this.。
Before I read it, let me tell you a little bit.。
I'm getting too ahead of myself.。
This is the moment just about two or three months after the disciples have seen the death。
and resurrection of Jesus and seen Jesus ascend.。
It's about two or three months after the sending of the Holy Spirit.。
And remember what Jesus has said to them.。
He said, "You'll be my witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and the ends of the world."。
Jerusalem to begin with.。
And so here's what the disciples are doing.。
They're spending every day in the temple courts in the heart of Jerusalem.。
They're sharing that Jesus is the Messiah, which was a radical thing to do in the temple,。
the very center of the Jewish faith for the people who are looking for their Messiah.。
And the disciples, this small band of people, are coming and sharing every day in the outer。
courts of the temple with whoever who would listen to them that Jesus is their Messiah.。
And this has become so much that the Sanhedrin, who are the sort of religious leaders of the。
day, 71 men that were leading the temple of that day, they had already told the disciples,。
"Stop talking about Jesus."。
But the disciples were like, "We're not going to stop talking about Jesus."。
And so we pick up the story from the point where the Sanhedrin brings them in to talk。
to them, verse 27.。
"Having brought the apostles, they made them appear before the Sanhedrin to be questioned。
by the high priest.。
'Hey, we gave you strict orders not to teach in his name,' he said.。
'Yet you have filled Jerusalem,'" notice this, "'filled Jerusalem with your teaching and。
are determined to make us guilty of this man's blood.'。
Peter and the other apostles replied, 'We must obey God rather than people.。
The God of our fathers raised Jesus from the dead, whom you had killed by hanging him on。
a tree.。
God exalted him to his own right hand as prince and savior, that he might give repentance。
and forgiveness of sins to Israel.。
We are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit whom God has given to those。
who obey him.'"。
I love this.。
The Sanhedrin are saying, "You need to stop teaching Jesus."。
And the apostles say, "We must obey God rather than people."。
Peter stands up in front of the people that could literally have him stoned, and he says,。
"We're going to obey God more than we're going to obey you."。
Now you've got to understand, this is the same Peter who just about three months prior。
to this, when he sees Jesus get arrested, denies him three times.。
Denies him three times, runs away, and returns to being a fisherman, and gives up the whole。
cool that Christ had placed upon him.。
He goes away from it all, and in fear, he basically hides.。
I think at this time, Peter saw Jesus as his savior, but not his Lord.。
And because he had seen Jesus as his savior, when Jesus was arrested, he was like, "This。
is going to end really badly for Jesus.。
It could potentially end really badly for me, so I guess maybe he's not Jesus, the Messiah.。
He's not the one that we had thought he was.。
He's not our savior."。
And when Jesus dies on the cross, before Peter is seeing him in his resurrection, he runs.。
He flees away.。
And then Jesus, in his resurrection, meets him on the beach, restores to him, gives him。
his calling to be one of the fathers of the church, and just three months later, here's。
Peter standing before the very persons that three months prior he was afraid of, and now。
he's standing in front of them and saying, "We're going to obey God over you."。
Something has so radically happened in Peter that now he sees Jesus not just as his savior,。
but also his Lord.。
And because he's his Lord, he's willing to submit everything under the kingship of Christ。
Jesus, so much so that he can stand before his people and say, "I'm going to always put。
God first."。
Now notice, Peter is not trying to incite some revolution against the powers of the。
day.。
He's not trying to say, "Hey, we're just going to disregard all of you guys."。
He's not trying to say, "Look, we should work against the laws of the land."。
He's not doing that.。
I think Peter has a deep respect for his people.。
I think he's got a deep respect for the laws of his land.。
He's not advocating some rebellion against the laws of this land.。
What he is saying, though, he's saying, "If it ever comes down to it, where the word of。
my king and the word of this world clash, I'm going to side with my king."。
That's what he's saying.。
And he's saying, "That's where my obedience will be.。
That's where my life will be.。
That's where I will submit myself to over and above everything else."。
And we can hear that and go, "Yeah, that sounds great.。
Oh, I always would put Christ first."。
And then persecution comes.。
You know, I think it's actually really easy for us to put God first when it comes with。
very little personal cost to actually living it out.。
But when putting Christ first comes at deep sacrifice and cost, I know that we are so。
easily tempted to choose what is safe rather than what is faithful.。
And Peter is standing before his people and saying, "I will always put God first.。
I didn't three months ago."。
I love how beautiful Peter is.。
He's like, "I'm not perfect.。
Three months ago, man, I even denied him three times.。
But now I stand before you.。
He's my savior and my Lord."。
So how do we do this?。
How do we practically?。
I know I'm going a bit long, but how do we practically put a word like this, begin to。
put it and shape it into our lives in the months and years ahead for us here in Hong。
Kong, a place that we love, a place that we want to see flourish and grow?。
Well, I want to suggest a few quick things.。
First of all, number one, do not be surprised, right?。
Do not be surprised by the reality of these two irreconcilable value systems that are。
going to rub up against each other.。
That's the first one.。
We've seen that throughout our time together today.。
Here's the second one.。
Pray for the grace.。
Pray for the grace to be able to stand up against whatever might come to you.。
But I want you to see this.。
The grace that Christ gives us for persecution has two directions to it.。
The first direction is the grace that we need to stand up under persecution.。
But the second direction of the grace is the one we often forget about.。
That grace should also then work through our lives outwards towards our persecutor.。
Jesus said, "Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you."。
And so if we get to stand up under that clash of value system, we should be asking for the。
grace not just to stand up against it, but for the grace to be able to withstand whatever。
persecution might come.。
It's really interesting because Peter, after saying this thing he says, they're actually。
flogged and they're beaten so badly.。
And they leave from that place of being flogged and beaten and they say these words.。
They say, "We rejoice that we have been counted worthy of suffering for the name."。
If I was the disciples in that moment, if I was Peter, I would have left with these。
emotions.。
Not joy.。
My emotions would be anger.。
My emotion would be hate.。
My emotion would be, "How do I get revenge here?"。
Their emotion was rejoicing.。
Joy.。
Joy that they've been counted worthy of suffering for the name.。
Another way of saying it, joy for realizing that in living a godly life, the persecution。
has told them that they're on the right track.。
They're on the narrow path.。
There's great joy in that.。
Here's the third thing.。
Deepen your relationship with Jesus.。
The easiest way I can say it is this.。
You will never be prepared to suffer for something or someone you do not know.。
Come on, church.。
We are only prepared to suffer for something that we know and that we love and that we。
believe is valuable to stand for.。
So as we deepen our roots in Christ Jesus, that's the greatest way that we prepare ourselves。
for whatever might come.。
Here's the fourth thing.。
Replace our fear of people with a healthy fear of the Lord.。
It's so easy for us to feel afraid of what everybody might think or afraid of what might。
happen or afraid of the opinions of those around us.。
And that's a very real thing.。
And I've already told you that's something I struggle with a lot.。
Replacing that fear with a healthy fear of the Lord.。
This is Peter, right?。
"I will obey God over human beings because I put my fear, my ultimate trust, my ultimate。
reverence, my ultimate worship under my king rather than under any human authority structure.。
Ultimately, that's what I do," says Peter.。
We need to replace our fear of people with a healthy fear of the Lord.。
Here's the final one and I'll close with this.。
We need to not forget that the church is victorious.。
Not forget that we as God's people hold the victory.。
And that even though we might, as Paul would write to the church in Corinth, be on the。
dying side, the people around us are on the rising side.。
That they get to see the gospel and they get to come into relationship with Jesus.。
They get salvation and a Lord.。
And in seeing people being brought into the kingdom of God, we're willing to take the。
dying side if they're going to have the rising side.。
We're willing to live a godly life for Christ Jesus, even though it might rub us up against。
the grain of sin, simply because we long to see the victory that is found in the church。
of Christ.。
That Jesus would say, "I've built this church and the gates of hell will not come against。
it."。
Paul, as he's writing to the church, he finishes with these powerful words.。
And I want to read these over you.。
So as we close, can I invite you to stand with me?。
And I want to read these words over you because I'm hoping that some of what I've taught you。
today has been helpful for you.。
I'm hoping that it has been challenging to you.。
But I'm hoping that you will leave here not in a place of fear, but in a place of worship.。
That you leave here going, "I want a Savior and a Lord."。
That you leave here saying, "I know it's not going to be always easy.。
That's the narrow path, but I'm not doing it alone.。
I'm doing it with a room filled with people like this.。
I'm doing it in a church community that loves me and that will help me.。
I'm doing it amongst people who will pray for me.。
But more than that, I'm doing it as a victor, not as someone in defeat."。
Notice what Paul says over his church.。
And I want to encourage you just to close your eyes as I read this to you.。
He says, "Because those who are led by the Spirit of God are children of God.。
For you did not receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear, but you received。
a spirit of sonship.。
And by him we cry, 'Abba, Father.'。
For the Spirit himself testifies with our own spirit that we are God's children.。
Now if we are the children, then we are also his heirs, heirs of God and co-heirs with。
Christ.。
If indeed we share in his sufferings, in order that we may also share in his glory.。
For I consider that our present sufferings are not worth comparing with the glory that。
will be revealed in us.。
No, for in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.。
For I am convinced that neither death nor life, nor angels nor demons, neither present。
nor the future, nor any powers, neither height nor depth, nor anything else in all of creation。
will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord."。
Father, I pray for your church.。
I pray for the vine, for these incredible people that you love.。
I pray for myself.。
I pray that we would take conviction, that we would turn it into repentance, and that。
out of a place of repentance, we would move forward in glory, Lord.。
I want to pray, Lord, for a resurrected church.。
Lord, I want to pray a glimpse, the temptation to the rocky ground church, to the rocky ground。
Christian, the temptations that I have had to battle with.。
Lord, I want to pray for the rising of a conquering church, Lord, the church that knows that we。
are more than conquerors in Christ Jesus, that as his forgiveness and his spirit and。
his power comes upon us, and as we choose to live a godly life for him, not out of rebellion,。
not because we're seeking some persecution, but because we so love the world that Jesus。
was sent here, and that we have a gospel and a story to proclaim in the world around us.。
Lord, as we stand on the victory of the risen Jesus and the power of the Spirit in us, Lord,。
we will stand.。
So Father, I want to pray a blessing over each person here today.。
I want to pray the blessing of the Lord Jesus Christ and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit。
would be their rear guard.。
I pray that you would go before them, you would be around them, and that you would be。
behind them.。
And that, Lord, if anyone in this room right now is under a place of persecution for their。
faith, Lord, we want to pray as the church of Jesus Christ for them.。
We want to pray a lifting right now off of the oppression that the enemy would want to。
bring upon them, and we want to pray hope and faith and life.。
Lord, we want to pray that they would find themselves being able to stand firm in whatever。
persecution they may be struggling with at this time.。
And Lord, we want to pray that we would be all for your glory.。
All for your glory.。
All for your glory.。
And Lord, the final thing I want to pray, I want to pray for anyone here who recognizes。
that they have you as their Savior, but not as your Lord.。
Lord, I want to pray for anyone here who recognizes that you are their Savior, but they do not。
and they know that they struggle with submitting themselves fully to your Lordship, to your。
kingship.。
Lord, I want to pray that as you take them deeper this year in seasons that are uncharted,。
that their obedience and submission to you as their King would be the place of their。
greatest joy like it was for Peter.。
And Lord, in that place of overwhelming joy, we would move forward.。
And we pray this in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
(applause)。
