Alright, couldn't put that in the rundown because she would hide.。
Great.。
Well, everyone, I am going to tell you some things about me today that I'm going to need。
you not to judge me on.。
I've got lots to share with you about relationships and friendships.。
So I'm going to start off by telling you about me back in 2013.。
Back in 2013, I was young, I was fit, I was stronger, I looked good, my jawline was more。
chiseled.。
You talked about this before.。
I looked really nice back then.。
I was full of faith, but I was also dead broke.。
And I came to Hong Kong in 2013 dead broke with not really any money, but I came to Hong。
Kong with a confidence knowing that God had called me to come to Hong Kong.。
I couldn't tell you why.。
I don't know why I really believed this, but I had prayed and I was sure God wanted me。
in Hong Kong.。
So I came to Hong Kong, but let me tell you, my time in Hong Kong was not without its set。
of challenges.。
The first major challenge being I'd never been to Hong Kong before.。
So I moved here after never having ever stepped foot here.。
Zoom out a little bit.。
I moved here.。
I'd never been to Asia before.。
So when you're 23, you're bold and young.。
I came out here anyways, and I have to be honest, again, please don't judge me, but。
my understanding of what I thought Hong Kong would be like, I couldn't tell you where it。
was on a map, but I expected sesame chicken.。
I expected teriyaki chicken.。
I expected fortune cookies.。
I had this very Panda Express on every corner mentality, and I was severely disappointed,。
but Chasu balls are great, so it's all right.。
It's made up for it.。
But yeah, I had this perspective, and I will say the one thing I take pride in is I'm not。
like all the other Americans.。
I did know this one thing, that Hong Kong is not in Japan.。
I knew that.。
I knew that.。
I was home this Christmas.。
All the people that were like, "So how's Japan?。
How's Japanese?"。
I'm like, "Oh my goodness."。
So I knew that much, which is good.。
It's a low bar, but I'm proud of it.。
No, all I really knew about Hong Kong, this is honest, was the movie Rush Hour.。
Lee and Carter.。
That is all I knew.。
I knew nothing about this place, but I knew God wanted me here, so I came.。
I moved over to Hong Kong, and let me just say there were quite a few challenges, guys.。
I moved here with 10,000 Hong Kong dollars in my account.。
Now this was only a few years ago, what, 2013?。
10, 12, 11 years ago?。
I can't count.。
$10,000 did not get you very far in 2013.。
I didn't realize this because being a young university student, I thought 10K was just。
enough to get me where I needed to go.。
I get here, and 10K is not enough to get you a flat.。
So let's just say I had some major challenges trying to figure out how do you stretch $10,000。
to lead you into the things of God.。
I couldn't afford anything.。
I couldn't afford groceries.。
I couldn't afford living.。
I couldn't...。
Like month to month was a proper challenge, and so I found myself in this position where。
on one hand, I knew, I had prayed, I had felt that God had called me to move here for some。
very particular reasons.。
I stood on that conviction.。
I knew I needed to be here.。
On the other hand, that $10,000, that wasn't going to get me very far.。
And I found myself in that position of wrestling when you don't really know what do you do。
when God calls you into something, but the challenges are overwhelming.。
You find yourself convicted that you know where you're supposed to go.。
God has called you to move forward, but what do you do when the resources aren't there?。
If you...。
Anything like me, you've been in that place where you felt that tension before, where。
your conviction and your resources don't line up, where your conviction and the things that。
you need just aren't really harmonious.。
This was me back in 2013.。
I knew God wanted me here.。
I was convinced of it.。
No one could tell me any different, but I also didn't know how I was supposed to follow。
God into a city I'd never been into before, into the unknown, really confused, really。
flustered, overwhelmed.。
I look back at that time and I recognize I had the right start.。
I made the right choices.。
I wore the right clothes, but if we have three of these things and we're missing one very。
critical important aspect, I think we can oftentimes start in the direction that God。
wants us to go, but we will find it ridiculously challenging to remain there.。
Perhaps God is calling us to consider if we have the right people with us.。
See, we've been in the story of David so far in 1 Samuel, and we've seen that David's calling。
is incredible, right?。
He's been anointed to be the next king of Israel.。
He'd be the second king, and it wasn't because of his looks.。
He wasn't particularly tall or strong or anything on the outside that would give you this understanding。
that he should be king, but he'd been anointed because of his heart's posture towards God,。
right?。
So things are going pretty good for him.。
He goes into Saul's court, and not expecting to, he's now given the job of playing the。
harp and the lyre to help calm down King Saul, right?。
And when he would play his harp and his lyre, there would be a soothing that would happen。
to Saul.。
And even though he was possessed and haunted by these evil spirits, it would soothe him.。
So David finds himself soothing the king.。
And while he's doing his regular responsibilities, a season arises where a man by the name of。
Goliath is threatening the people of God, and nobody from the army, nobody feels that。
they have the courage to stand up.。
I mean, these are God's people, but no one has the strength and the ability to say, "I'll。
take him on."。
And what does David do?。
David steps up.。
He decides he will go and fight Goliath, and he's given this great honor where Saul's like,。
"Here, well, if you're going to fight Goliath, if you're going to stand in front of the people,。
here, wear my stuff."。
And David rejects that, takes it off, and he stays dressed in the expectations of God.。
If you were here last week, that would make sense to you.。
We get the fact that Saul ends up loving David for what he's doing at that time.。
David's life isn't too bad.。
You're anointed to be king, and things are going well.。
He fights Goliath, and he wins against all odds.。
So, so far, he's starting off pretty well.。
But as he's about to find out, this is not enough.。
He's been authentically himself.。
He's been doing things the right way, making the right choices, but this wouldn't be enough。
to sustain him in what was to come next.。
He would realize that he would need the right people being their authentic self around him。
in order to continue going down the path that God had for him.。
And it's as we think about this, we reach a new character in the story, Jonathan, Saul's。
son.。
So I'm going to take us here to 1 Samuel 18, verses 1 through 4.。
It's on the screen.。
You can read with me.。
After David finished talking with Saul, Jonathan became one in spirit with David, and he loved。
him as himself.。
And that day, Saul kept David with him and did not let him return home to his family.。
Jonathan made a covenant with David because he loved him as himself.。
Jonathan took off the robe he was wearing and gave it to David, along with his tunic。
and even his sword, his bow, and his belt.。
So what's happening here?。
Why are we given this story?。
David has just come off of this mountaintop experience of defeating Goliath and destroying。
the Philistine army, cutting off the head of this giant and baking Israel in a place。
where it's victorious and no longer in danger again.。
And we get this random story of David and this relationship that Jonathan has.。
David has impressed the king, starts off saying, "Saul is like, 'Who is this kid?'"。
Like how does he go from being a shepherd boy to now fighting a giant and winning for。
the whole nation?。
Who is his father?。
What family?。
He is impressed.。
Everything about David, everything about David has now caught his eye.。
It's also caught the eye of his son, Jonathan, who is like, "Wow, what is this guy?"。
And he ends up committing himself to David.。
He ends up befriending David.。
It says that David is now going to be stuck with Saul for a while.。
He's not allowed to go back home.。
So I reckon David was probably glad someone probably around his age to be his friend in。
that space.。
I'm pretty sure that was a bit of a relief for him.。
But here David has two options.。
In front of him lies two people.。
There's Saul, there's Jonathan.。
And it's not so easy to recognize who is who when it comes to who are the right people。
to have with you as you move into the things of God.。
And so what we're going to do is we're going to evaluate both Saul and Jonathan and see。
how some words are similar, some actions are similar, but actually only one of these guys。
is the right type of people for David to be able to move into the things of God.。
Are you guys with me?。
All right, let's look at this.。
The first thing we know about Saul is it tells us that the Spirit of God had left Saul.。
Now you don't have to be a biblical scholar to recognize that, you know, in your setting,。
if the Spirit of God has left somebody, pro tip, they're probably not the right person.。
If the Spirit of God, it said that because of his disobedience to God, the Spirit of。
God had left him in what, an unclean spirit, an evil spirit, a demonic spirit had entered。
him.。
This should be our first indicator without us having to be scholars to recognize something's。
off about Saul.。
But I think for David, it probably wasn't that easy to recognize.。
So for us, we're reading it back and we're getting the narration.。
For David, it actually tells us that Saul loved David.。
So David's in this position to discern this man loves him.。
I mean, think about what he did last week, right?。
So he offers him his kingly gear, his armor to be the best, to have the best stuff, to。
look the best part in order to fight Goliath.。
From the naked eye, it looks like Saul is for David, right?。
Those seem like good things, but think about how in order for Saul to even do this, give。
David his stuff, he first has to be abdicating his responsibility as king because it's the。
king's job to defend his people.。
He's hiding.。
He's not actually living as God has called him to live, fulfilling the responsibilities.。
And so even though he's offering this good stuff done from the wrong place, it's rejected。
by God, right?。
So David is able to put those things down and not take it with him.。
Although Saul gives him this great honor, his motives are unpure, and so God does not。
find it acceptable.。
Let's look at Jonathan.。
We want to get four verses to really get an idea of who Jonathan is.。
We don't get much of a backstory before that, but what we see about Jonathan is we learn。
about his love for David.。
That's the first thing we get.。
Two times across these three verses, we hear that Jonathan loved David.。
See, the right people are committed in love, right?。
So think about this.。
It says it two times, and I think for us, as we read Scripture, in our basic discipleship,。
one thing we should keep in mind, when we are reading the Scripture, and a phrase or。
word reappears multiple times, the biblical author is intending for us to catch on to。
something.。
He's emphasizing something.。
And so we have to ask ourselves, what is he actually saying?。
Slow down and read the text here.。
He's showing us the posture, the true posture of Jonathan's heart towards David.。
Because again, Saul loved David.。
It says it once, and we see that things were not right, but we get a repeat here that Jonathan。
loved David twice.。
Now, I think it's something we have to ask ourselves.。
This is pretty interesting.。
When I thought about it, if you're the king's son, if you're Jonathan, and your dad brings。
home this other kid, or young adult, however old they were, brings him home, and him doing。
his job so well, it soothes your dad's soul, probably like, "Whoa, what's going on?"。
And then he stands up and he defeats the biggest threat to your nation, representing God even。
greater than the king does.。
You're probably like, "Whoa, what's going on?"。
Now he's going to be stuck in your house, in the king's court.。
I think for many people, the legitimate question would be, "Is this dude trying to take my。
place?"。
That's a fair thing.。
That's a logical sequence to take.。
If someone is showing up doing all the right things, kind of in your space, jealousy would。
be the natural response.。
I'm not sure of too many people that would say, "Yeah, let me align myself to this person.。
Let me love them like I love myself.。
Let me value them first.。
Let me prioritize."。
That is not the natural response, but this is what we find in Jonathan towards David.。
Most of us would have a hard time loving a potential threat.。
I mean, just think about Instagram.。
Most of us, we go on social media and we see that people have all these things that we。
want, things that we desire, and it's not really love.。
I mean, we press the heart button, but it's not really love that we feel towards them,。
is it?。
A lot of times, when people are doing well, our natural tendency is jealousy.。
But I think we learned something here from Jonathan, that we're called to love.。
His love for David was as he loved himself.。
I think if we're not careful in our jealousy, in our natural predisposition, we end up envying。
others.。
We end up jealous of others.。
We end up coveting our neighbor instead of loving them like we love ourselves.。
But Jonathan loves David.。
That's what we get.。
The scripture tells us again and again, Jonathan loved David as much as himself.。
When I looked at this, I immediately thought about where else does this take place?。
And this is a good practice for all of us.。
When you read something like that that's repeated, again, yes, you're meant to focus on those。
phrases, but that phrase, "as much as he loved himself," where else does this also show up。
in scripture?。
I went straight to Matthew chapter 22.。
Matthew chapter 22 is a great passage because Jesus is standing there, and one of the top。
teachers of the law approaches Jesus with the desire to test and trap him.。
And he says, "Jesus, good teacher, of all the commandments that are out there, which。
is the greatest one?。
Which is the best?。
Of all the commandments of Moses, which is the best one for us to follow?"。
Jesus looks him in the eye and goes, "You shall love your God with all your heart, with。
all your mind, with all your soul, with all your strength."。
And I'm sure dude was like, "Okay, good job.。
No blasphemy there.。
Check."。
And then Jesus goes, "And," which I'm sure is through everybody else off because a question。
like that, "Which is the greatest?" is meant to come with only one answer.。
Jesus says, "Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, strength, and,"。
he adds an extra thing, and I'm sure they're all like, "What is he about to say?。
What else can there be?。
Loving God must be the only thing.。
It must be the top thing."。
Jesus says, "And love your neighbor," what's the phrase?。
"As you love yourself, as much as you love yourself."。
Jesus would say that all of the laws of God hinge on these two things.。
If you love God with all your heart, wholly, and you love your neighbor as yourself, love。
your brother as yourself, love those around you as you love yourself.。
First John would tell us that if you don't love others, the love of God is not in you.。
A bit of a harsh way of putting it.。
But this is Jonathan's love, right?。
That term, "As he loved himself."。
This is the way that Jonathan loved David.。
It's a costly love because it puts him in this position where he values David the same,。
if not more, than himself, which is a bit unnatural, right?。
Like who loves other people more than they love themselves?。
No, Jonathan's love for David was that greatest commandment kind of love.。
And all of our examples of love in Scripture is this others-centered love.。
It's caring for those around us.。
It's giving our lives on behalf of others around us.。
And it's great because Jesus says this thousands of years later, but David and Jonathan are。
living this out way beforehand.。
So we're meant to kind of see that bit of a hyperlink between the two concepts, others-centered。
love.。
And I think when we see this, we should be asking ourselves, of those in our community,。
if we are asking, "Who's the right people?。
I'm torn between this and this."。
Is there others-centered love visible?。
Because that's actually meant to be what marks us as disciples.。
It's meant to be a key characteristic of anyone who chooses to follow God, that yes, they。
would love God wholly, but also they would love their neighbor as theirselves.。
See, the right people are committed to this kind of love.。
The thing is that this kind of love is not a result of trying really hard.。
It's not a result of...。
Oh, it's Jethro and me.。
That's great.。
That's the right kind of love right there.。
This kind of love is not a result of trying hard.。
It's not a byproduct of just mustering up all your strength and energy.。
No, if we actually go back to what we see in Matthew 22, there is an order.。
Jesus says, "First, you love God with all that you have, and from that flows the ability。
to love your neighbor as yourself."。
He doesn't say, "Love your neighbor as yourself and then try to love God."。
He also doesn't say, "Just love God."。
He gives us this command that we must first love God.。
See, the people in your life cannot truly love you as much as they love themselves if。
they don't love God.。
It's impossible.。
So what we need in our lives when it comes to community aren't just people with the same。
hobbies as us, as much as that's good.。
What we need in our lives are not just people who work in the same field as us or who are。
same-mindedness or same ideology as us.。
No, we need people who choose to love God wholeheartedly because it's only from that。
place of wholehearted love to God can you have the ability to love others as you love。
yourself.。
This is the mark of a true disciple of Christ.。
This is what we're all aiming to be like, to love God with all that we have, all our。
heart, with all our soul, with all our mind, with all our strength.。
And if we're going to walk into this year that God has set for us, we need people who。
are going to walk with us who carry this characteristic of love for God before everything,。
which naturally flows into love for others.。
In the next couple of verses, we see more similarity between Jonathan and Saul.。
This time it's not just in their actions or in their words of love, it's in what they。
do.。
So I'm going to read for us 1 Samuel 18, verse 4.。
It says this, "And Jonathan took off the robe he was wearing and gave it to David, along。
with his tunic and even his sword, his bow, and his belt."。
If you were here last week, you've been tracking this through this series.。
Last week was all about the clothes, right?。
Pastor Andrew wore the oversized jacket that was terrible on him, the one that kind of。
fit.。
It was all about what you wear.。
And the whole idea is Pastor Andrew was showing us how Saul had offered David his stuff.。
He had done almost the exact same thing.。
He had taken his clothes and put it on David.。
And Jonathan is doing the same thing.。
The biblical author was trying to get us to think, to see the connection, right?。
You've got Saul who did this, you've got Jonathan who did the exact same thing, yet what's implied。
are two different results.。
For Saul, he's dodging responsibility, right?。
Because Goliath is still ahead of them.。
He gives him his armor before he goes to fight Goliath.。
But think about when the Jonathan story occurs.。
This is after the battle.。
What is the purpose of giving someone all this stuff after the battle?。
He doesn't have another giant to go and fight yet.。
He's actually, everything is good.。
Everyone's pleased with him.。
We're all celebrating that the Philistines are no longer threatening our existence.。
Our nation will live.。
We are okay.。
We're not made their slaves.。
Everything is good.。
So why would Jonathan start giving him this stuff?。
What would be the purpose?。
It's very different from what Saul was doing.。
I'm going to actually read this to you because as I look through this, I found very deep。
perspective that is not my own idea, but it's something for us to consider and it really。
helps us understand what's happening.。
So just play as close attention as you can.。
Scholars would say that the word used here for robe often denotes a royal robe.。
Ancient Near East texts would speak of this special robe as the robe worn by the crown。
prince.。
So if Israel had the same planned customs as other nations, that would mean Jonathan。
would have been renouncing his claim to the throne by giving David that robe.。
This represents, or this along with the bow and daily garments given from Jonathan may。
very well represent his willingness to give up and transfer his particular position as。
heir apparent to the throne of Israel.。
He was thus expressing loyalty and possibly submission to David.。
Sit on that for a minute.。
Jonathan, simplify this concept.。
Jonathan is offering David a sacrificial friendship, one that's not characterized by competition,。
one that's not characterized by just seeing what's on the outside or by insecurity.。
It's characterized by sacrifice.。
One where the other person lays down the essence of their life.。
We know that scripture says greater love has no one than the one who lays down their life。
for a friend.。
Yes, that's talking about physical life and death, but I would ask how much greater is。
it when your life leads to the throne, to the highest position in the land, to give。
up your actual destiny?。
To give up the thing that's probably the most desirable thing in your nation.。
To give up the top spot.。
I mean, he was gonna be king, the second king of the nation.。
This is where you wanna be.。
This is the position you wanna be able to inherit, and he is willingly, sacrificially。
laying that down in order to display sacrificial friendship.。
See, because Jonathan loved David the right way, his actions are gonna support David.。
Those who are committed to Christ-like love are committed in Christ-like actions.。
Had his love been for himself, Jonathan could have done lots of other things and not laid。
down his crown.。
Had his love been for himself, Jonathan would have tried to self-preserve.。
But from his action, we can clearly see that he truly is living in a sacrificial relationship。
where his love looks a lot like the love of Christ that we see.。
I mean, I find it wild because this isn't normally how the world works.。
Imagine with me, just for a minute, pretend that we lived in a world where this is how。
people treated one another.。
Imagine if your friends were friends with you not just because you benefited them, or。
only friends with you until you had disagreement.。
Imagine if people came into your life to support you fully in godliness.。
Imagine if the community around you had no self-interest in mind, if they were willing。
to give up everything, not so that David could have like, be cool and be king, but so that。
David could walk into following God, into what God had for him.。
Imagine a world or a community, and I guess to an extent, I'm not chewing us out, but。
I guess to an extent it's sad because that's actually meant to be the community that we。
live in.。
This is meant to mark the church.。
This is meant to be how we live with one another.。
Relationships like this, where it's not about me, where it's not about my self-interest,。
but I care enough about the person next to me to do whatever I can to help them walk。
into the things of God, into godliness.。
Not harboring jealousy because maybe they got the promotion and I didn't.。
Not being mad because they can afford a good holiday and I can't, or they have the perfect。
relationship or the perfect house or the perfect car or the, they have, whatever it is.。
Not just living by sight, but truly discerning, living by the spirit, and actually cooperating,。
working alongside the things that God is doing in the lives of others.。
That is actually the purpose for community.。
That is why we exist.。
Man, these kinds of people will definitely make you feel good about yourself, but beyond。
that, they will help you walk into the things of God.。
They encourage and they will support.。
They are present, they are active, and they are intentionally engaged in helping you reach。
the things of God.。
And what Jonathan does here is not just symbolic.。
Yes, he takes off these garments and passes it to David, but it's actually followed up。
with some action.。
If you look at the next three chapters from 19, 20, and 21 of 1 Samuel, you will see in。
the narrative that David goes from everything's not that bad to running for his life, to fleeing,。
to hiding.。
There's a certain point where he's in a cave while still waiting for the promises of God.。
He is running.。
He is desperate.。
He is almost an outlaw in the kingdom that he's been promised.。
And you recognize that it's at that point that God had done something incredible.。
The very thing David needed to be able to sustain in the promises of God was not just。
found in his good heart.。
It would be found in this relationship.。
See, what Jonathan would do is remarkable.。
He would lie to his father, to the king who had the right to kill him, but also to his。
father, his father, right?。
He would lie to him.。
He would deceive him.。
He would go against the king of the nation in order to help David.。
There's one point I thought was very interesting.。
It said that when this evil spirit would possess Saul, there was one point where Jonathan made。
him so mad in trying to save and protect David that Saul lunged a sphere at him to try and。
kill him.。
It said with the intent to kill him.。
So it wasn't just a symbolic, "Okay, yes, you can become king and I'm going to support。
you."。
Dude backed it up with the way he lived.。
He put himself, he put his life on the line to help this man walk into the things of God.。
Y'all, that is unreal friendship.。
That is sacrificial friendship, sabotaging your dad's plans.。
Now, I obviously, I come from the US and the culture I come from has a very individualistic。
society.。
And so whenever I read through this, you know, growing up or over the years, it never really。
stuck out to me, but I had a greater appreciation reading this after being in Hong Kong for。
the past 11 years because in this culture, we value family a lot.。
We operate as a unit, right?。
And the idea of going against your family is not something you just gloss over and get。
to the fun part of the Scripture.。
That makes you halt in your steps, right?。
The idea of sabotaging your family in order to help the things of God in another place,。
that's wild, especially here.。
Push even further, the idea of going against your father, that definitely brings some sort。
of tension.。
So much so, because again, I've not grown up in Hong Kong.。
So I talked to someone who did, the girl who did these slides, her name is Veronica, and。
I was asking her about what does it make you feel when you zoom in on the idea that Jonathan。
had to resist, shrug off, lie to, lose, push back, disagree with his father?。
How does that make you feel in your context, even your story, even your life?。
And she was like, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's tension.。
It's all those things.。
It feels awkward, and it's like, 'Oh, I could never do that.'"。
But what was even greater was the next day, came back to work, and she was like, "Dude,。
thinking about that, I had dreams about it last night.。
It caused me that much distress just thinking about what that would mean, that it seeped。
into my dreams last night."。
This is the level of sacrificial friendship.。
Like, I give you that example to show you just how sacrificial of a friendship Jonathan。
had with David.。
And even greater, David is this man of God.。
David is doing all the things right.。
And I feel like maybe it's something we need to specifically keep in mind.。
He's able to slay giants.。
He's able to be anointed as king.。
He's able to soothe Saul's soul.。
But in order for him to properly step into what God has for him, the destiny and the。
promises of God, even with God's help, he needs a friend.。
Think about that.。
Even with God by himself, David needed a godly community.。
He needed a true spiritual friendship.。
He needed sacrificial people who were in his life willing to help him follow and go where。
God was leading.。
I think for you and I, we're not that much different from David.。
We also have obstacles in where God is calling us to be, the things that God has for you。
this year, where he's hoping to develop and grow you.。
There will be things that prevent us from that.。
And having the right people are critical.。
And every time I preach on community here, I recognize it.。
It's a bit of like a preaching to the choir, because I think in theory we all recognize。
community is good.。
No one's like, "Boo, community.。
We hate it."。
No, especially not with Pastor Jennifer, our community group's pastor here.。
We definitely don't say that.。
But there is this basic temptation that we do have to resist.。
There is this passive pattern that we step into where, yes, we know this is important,。
yet we unfortunately believe and live out the lie that we can do it on our own or that。
we actually don't need others.。
It's a passive belief.。
I don't think most of us are trying to cut people out.。
It's not an active belief, but the consequences are still as dangerous.。
We are tempted to not recognize that we genuinely need.。
It's not really an option.。
We genuinely need the right people.。
We're tempted to think that if we just make the right choices, if we just start the right。
way, if we just wear the right clothes, we'll be okay.。
But our biggest help is ignored when we don't realize that we desperately also need the。
right people.。
But here's the thing.。
God knows.。
He knows that you need support to keep your faith strong.。
He knows that when things get hard, you need help to be emboldened to withstand whatever。
obstacles are in front of you.。
He knows that you need strengthening in the days and the weeks ahead to resist the insecurities。
and to resist spiraling into fear.。
My question is this.。
What if God is saying that the very thing you need is only going to be found as a byproduct。
of investing in relationships with the right people?。
What if that's the only option?。
What if that's his only way?。
It's not like a plan A, plan B. What if that's the only plan?。
What if this is God's way of actually providing the help that we need?。
I mean, that's certainly what he did with David.。
We can find ourselves thinking that we need to pray the right prayer, attend the right。
amount of services, join the right teams, read the right passages in Scripture, go to。
the right self-help person, do all the right things, wear the right clothes, have the right。
belief system, attend the right classes, and God is saying, "Stop praying the right prayer.。
I've given you the right people."。
Like this is our biggest help, and he's provided so many of us.。
I mean, just look to your left and your right.。
When I speak of the right people, you guys are it, right?。
Also you guys as well, not just this time.。
Yes, that's the reality.。
God has designed it this way.。
He's designed it intentionally to be this way.。
And perhaps the things of God are not actually meant to be attained in isolation because。
the things of God are not just for us.。
Maybe that's why he won't let you do it by yourself.。
Maybe that's why he wouldn't just let David get to where he needed to go by himself.。
See, David's kingship was not just for David.。
You could even argue it was never for David in the first place.。
It was God's way of leading his people, God's way of being present with his people.。
The king served a role, all right?。
So the thing that you're being led towards isn't just for you.。
When we try and do it on our own, we end up super susceptible to that faulty thinking.。
We tend to think that the end all be all is receiving whatever God has for me in this。
year of action.。
We end up worshiping a me-centric God.。
But what if the purpose God has for you is only accomplished with the right people because。
the purposes are for the benefit of all people?。
God's purpose, the whole Bible is this beautiful picture of God redeeming and reconciling all。
creation back to himself.。
That is the whole book, right there.。
That is what we're aiming for.。
That is what he's doing.。
So we need the right people to help us follow Christ correctly, knowing that whatever God。
has in store for you and for you this year, whatever new thing you start, whatever year。
of action, however it manifests itself, it's not just for you.。
Having the right people helps us recognize that it's actually all connected to God's。
heart and his plan to redeem and reconcile all things back to himself.。
Guys, apart from these kinds of relationships there, I don't know another way that you can。
actually stay where God's sending you.。
So if you want to start, well, do the first three things.。
Make good choices.。
You know, wear the right clothes.。
Have the right start.。
But I think most of us aren't interested in just starting the things of God, right?。
Most of us are interested in abiding and remaining and being steadfast in the things of God,。
continuing the good faith journey.。
And I really don't want us to miss out on the true gift, the true gift that friendship。
is.。
Like, David and Jonathan's story, I was, this morning we were praying before the 9/15 service.。
One of our staff, Gordon, was praying.。
He was like, "Jesus, thank you," all this stuff, you know, "for Pastor Promise and for。
just this unique, you know, story of friendship."。
And it hit me because it's actually not meant to be unique.。
It's actually meant to be pretty common.。
It's meant to be the way that we naturally operate, the way that we naturally live being。
there for one another.。
So I started off this whole sermon, this whole talk, telling you about all my faulty things。
and coming to Hong Kong with only 10K in my pocket and looking for Panda Express on every。
corner and being very sad.。
I want to tell you how it ended.。
So I get here, and again, I don't have praying hard enough didn't make rents become super,。
super, super affordable or free.。
But what ended up happening was ridiculous.。
This is true.。
We prayed for a free flat.。
So me, my best friend Rick, my other best friend, Irem.。
Rick used to serve here on the worship team.。
Irem used to be one of our designers at the Vine before they both moved to the States。
a few years back.。
And we prayed.。
We're like, "God, give us a free flat."。
Now those kind of prayers are a lot easier when you're 23 years old.。
I realized I must not have that kind of faith anymore.。
But we prayed for that.。
And here's what happened.。
God did not give us a free flat.。
There you go.。
No, what he did was a lady in the church offered to give us her flat for one US dollar a year.。
Y'all, I know, that was me.。
I was like, "Wait, this stuff happens?"。
I genuinely couldn't believe it.。
But here's the thing.。
Here's the kicker.。
She gave the flat to Rick and Irem, not to me because I didn't work at that church.。
So here I am.。
My needs haven't been met yet, but I know God wants me in Hong Kong, but how am I going。
to live?。
Like, how am I supposed to like...where do I go?。
And if I had not had these relationships with Rick and Irem, people who weren't just interested。
in me hanging out in Hong Kong, but who prayed and discerned with me, who were like iron。
sharpening me to do the things of God, I would have not had the blessings that came through。
being friends with them.。
So I was able to live with them, slept on the couch, but it worked.。
It was good.。
We were okay.。
These guys monthly would be a part of my support system.。
They were interns, so remember, not much money, right?。
And church interns, so like very low money.。
Just put it out there, put it out there.。
But they were giving every single month to help make sure that I could live each minute.。
There were countless, y'all.。
There were...。
Like I think about it, and there's countless of examples of different people, the right。
people, people who were spiritually helping me, but were also financially helping me,。
who had no obligation to me, who had no reason to support me.。
I think I've shared with you about how I got money to be able to propose to my wife because。
some dude just gave...like God just provided, but he didn't just provide the thing, he provided。
the people, right?。
I remember when we first got here, one of the...yes, those are the big blessings that。
happened, but some of the practical things like, you know, where's Jollibee?。
That was big.。
My mates showed me where Jollibee was.。
I learned that maybe I can't get sesame chicken, but char siu bao is the next best thing, right?。
Quality stuff.。
I didn't know how to get off of the bus, off of a minibus, and I was...y'all, I was terrified。
waiting for the bus driver, right?。
Like I'd sit there, my hands would get sweaty, I'd be practicing over and over, "Oh, I'm。
about to see someone go, I'm about to see someone..." and just be like, "Am I going。
to say it this time?"。
And he'd go past my stop, I'm like, "I'll just wait until someone else says it, and。
I'll walk back an extra two kilometers."。
But my friends were the ones that taught me and showed me and helped me actually be sustained。
in this city.。
Those are silly examples, but they're practical.。
They're everyday things, and the people that God has in your life, they're not just here。
for the big miracles.。
It's also here for the everyday small things, the simple things.。
And I share that because I want that for us.。
I don't want us starting in the way of God not being able to finish.。
I don't want us being alone when there's so many people who love Jesus right here.。
When the church is meant to be the help of God in the world, when we are meant to be。
His activity, His hands and His feet, His provision may very much be the people in your。
life, the right people in your life.。
So we've talked about what the right and the wrong look like.。
So this isn't a sermon where we get reflective.。
I'm actually going to get you all to just go ahead and stand.。
As the worship team comes up on stage, everyone go ahead and stand up.。
All right, everybody, go ahead and stand up, stand up, stand up.。
And the way I want to end this whole series, we've learned lots of things.。
We've understood lots of ways, things that God has for us, how we begin well.。
And I want to pray for us that we would be able to find the right people.。
I want to pray commissioning us to actually following through and investing in the right。
relationships.。
I want to pray for the boldness to be able to do that, for the vulnerability that that。
requires because that's not always easy.。
A lot of us carry hurt from wrong people, wrong relationships that make it so hard to。
step into the right relationships.。
And God's not just going to wash over that.。
He's going to deal with that hurt.。
And so if you will, I'm going to ask you to close your eyes and just open your hands as。
a sign, as a posture of receiving this prayer, not from me, but through what only God can。
do.。
Jesus, we come before you this morning and first of all, we say thank you for your love.。
We thank you for the love that you give us that even equips us and allows us to love。
others.。
We thank you for this cloud of witnesses that we have with us in this room.。
We thank you for relationship and how you've designed things to be a certain way.。
Father, we recognize, we understand, and we see it.。
And we ask first God, for those of us who are looking for spiritual friendships, sacrificial。
friendship, friends who actually love, relationships that actually model a love for you, Holy Spirit,。
would you begin to show us where to look?。
God, would you give us the right metric?。
Would you help us not just look at the things that we see with our eyes, but help us to。
evaluate correctly?。
Help us to find people who are going to put you first, who are going to love you, and。
whose relationship with us will push us into greater love and obedience to you.。
People who will help us be more disciples of Christ.。
God, we ask for those people.。
God, for those of us who carry scars and burdens and frustrations of past relationships with。
the wrong people, moments where we've been hurt, moments where we've not been heard,。
taken advantage of, forgotten, neglected, whatever the word is, God, you see what happens.。
You see the scars we carry and your heart breaks for us, but you also don't stop there。
because you're a God of healing.。
You're a God that restores.。
So Holy Spirit, would you restore our hearts, restore the parts that are broken and make。
whole again what is needed?。
Would you give us the boldness, supernaturally, to be able to step into the right relationships?。
Would you allow us to be able to invest into the right relationships?。
Holy Spirit, would you transform us, continue to transform us, not just to receive the right。
people, but God, may the vine be full of people who are the right people for others.。
Holy Spirit, do your work in us.。
As we step into this year of action, may we go with the right start, may we make the right。
choices, may we wear the right clothes, and Holy Spirit, would we go with the right people.。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
