(gentle piano music)。
When he shall come with trumpet sound,。
and may I then in him be found,。
dressed only in his righteousness,。
faultless I stand before his throne.。
The words of that beautiful modern day hymn。
that we've just heard really resonate。
with a central theme that we're looking at here。
in our Advent season at the Vine in 2024.。
We've been saying each week, haven't we,。
that Advent is not just about the birth of Christ,。
it's also about this longing for his return.。
And I love how that song picks up that longing.。
When the trumpets sound, Christ will return to this world.。
And as he returns, his heart is to make this whole world。
just as he had always planned and designed for it to be.。
We read in that picture in Revelation 21 and 22。
that he's gonna make all things new,。
this desire to bring every tribe and tongue。
and nation together, praising him in a city。
that will come from heaven down to earth,。
drawing together all people, no more sin,。
no more brokenness, no more death.。
We will all find life to its fullness。
in the presence of him.。
And I love the way that the writer of that song。
expresses that sense within them, this idea of confidence.。
They say, here's where my confidence will be on that day.。
It's not gonna be in me.。
It's not gonna be in how well that I live my life.。
It's not gonna be that I had all the answers。
and I knew everything and I did the best that I could.。
No, he says, I will be dressed in his righteousness alone.。
In other words, the only thing I'm gonna have on that day,。
the only thing I need to have on that day。
is not my goodness, not my strength,。
not me having figured it all out.。
It's only in the life, death and resurrection of Jesus,。
what he's done on the cross,。
how he's paid the price for my sin,。
how I've come into that forgiveness。
and redemption for myself.。
And I'm gonna be dressed, not in my righteousness,。
as if I'm dressed in my righteousness on that day,。
things are not gonna go well.。
I'm gonna be dressed in his righteousness alone.。
And if that's the case,。
then I will be faultless before his throne.。
And so in this beautiful lyrics。
that we've just been sitting with,。
and sometimes when we sing these songs,。
we don't actually kind of dig into the theology,。
the beautiful theology that sits behind them.。
But when we sit in the resonance of that idea,。
we can kind of pick up what Paul's been saying to us。
throughout this series about the now, but not yet,。
that we're in and the three things that remain,。
because the confidence that that writer is speaking about。
of standing in his righteousness alone,。
that's picking up one of the major themes for Paul。
that remains for us in this now, but not yet time.。
And that's the theme of hope.。
Ah, yes, hope.。
Paul says that three things do remain。
when we struggle in the now, but not yet season。
that we're in, faith, hope, and love.。
And he says the greatest of these is love.。
And next week, we're gonna look at that,。
and I'm gonna explain why he says。
the greatest of these is love.。
But although it's true that love。
is the greatest of what remains,。
I think the thing that remains the most。
that we need the most right now is hope.。
I don't know if you've kind of picked this up yourself。
or not, but I think we're living in what I would say。
is a time of hope crisis.。
If you just open your ears to the conversations。
that are happening here in our city,。
in the cafes and in the lunch spots。
and in the bars after work and in the restaurants,。
if you kind of listen in to how people are talking,。
you can get a sense that there's a deep sense。
of helplessness and hopelessness here。
in our city at the moment.。
I wonder if this resonates a little bit。
with perhaps how you feel as you think about。
the future of Hong Kong and think about what it means。
to be a person that's living here,。
perhaps there's a certain sense。
of that hopelessness in you too.。
It was really interesting, last week we had。
our Christmas market and one of the organizations。
that was a part of the Christmas market was Eden last week.。
And Eden are an anti-trafficking,。
anti-human trafficking organization.。
And they produce jewelry and they sell this jewelry。
to help fund the work they do, but they produce a card.。
And when they do markets all over Hong Kong。
and they're doing them all the time,。
young people will come to them to look at the stuff。
that they have, they will give the young people a card。
and on that card are some words.。
All those words are biblical words,。
although of course the people don't know that,。
but there are all these biblical words that are on this card。
and they say to the people, hey, why don't you choose。
the word that resonates most with you?。
The word that connects to where you're at right now。
or perhaps the word that you need the most。
and then we'll show you the jewelry。
that's associated with that word.。
And they told me last week and you can probably guess。
that the single most common word。
that the young people of our city say to them。
every time they look at that list。
is the word, you guessed it, hope.。
It's as if our young people are saying,。
we're not sure where our hope lies anymore.。
We're not sure if we have the hope。
that we used to think that we had.。
But if we're honest though, it's not just the young people。
that perhaps are feeling that way,。
I think it's all the generations.。
And in fact, it's not actually even just what's happening。
here in Hong Kong.。
I mean, if we lift our heads up a little bit。
from our own city and our own circumstances。
and we look at around the world around us,。
we can see that actually there's a hope crisis。
around the whole world.。
That actually the reality is that the conversations。
are doom and gloom and despair。
in many parts of the world right now.。
And when you peel back the layer and you look at that。
and you look at the evidence that's out there,。
you can kind of understand why we're in this hope crisis.。
I mean, it's not like there's nothing going on.。
There's some pretty sad, pretty heavy,。
pretty crazy stuff that's happening in our world right now.。
I mean, levels of exploitation are happening in this world。
at levels that they've never happened before.。
The poor and the vulnerable and marginalized。
are being exploited more than ever.。
There's economic disparity in our world。
at a higher level than ever before.。
That's tracked by the Gini coefficient.。
And the Gini coefficient is higher。
for the Western developed world than it's ever been.。
The rich are getting richer, the poor are getting poorer.。
And then you look at kind of what's happening。
within many of the cultures of this world,。
and you can see so much abuse that's taking place,。
so much of a rise in senseless violence,。
so much exploitation that's happening。
for those who are vulnerable, hate crimes on the rise,。
gender abuse and gender violence.。
The look at things that are taking place。
in the wars around the world right now.。
And whenever there's war, here's the thing,。
there's always a group of people that suffer the most,。
and that's the innocents,。
and mostly that is often children.。
And we're seeing that over the last couple of years.。
If you take a look at the things。
that are taking place in our world,。
it's understandable perhaps。
that there is a bit of a hope crisis.。
And here's what I realized。
that I'm even hearing this amongst us here at the Vine.。
In the conversations that I have with you,。
in the conversations our pastoral team, we know,。
there's a great sense of helplessness。
amongst us as a community.。
It almost feels like hope has been dragged away。
from many of us in this room.。
Maybe as you're coming to the end of 2024,。
a lot of you in this room are saying,。
"Thank goodness that year's over,。
because I've been dragged down, and I've been held back,。
and I lost my job, and I had that diagnosis,。
and there's all this stuff that's happening,。
and it hasn't been a great year for me."。
And the reality is that sense of doom,。
that sense of gloom, I think it's not just over the world,。
I think it's over the church.。
And here's what worries me about that.。
Because if there should ever be a group of people。
in the world right now who could actually stand up。
and speak about a different way,。
who could actually begin to communicate。
that there's another narrative than the doom and the gloom。
that we're seeing in the world,。
then surely it should be the church.。
But I have a sense that the church。
is as hopeless as everybody else.。
And what I wanna do over the next 30 minutes。
is I wanna light a little fire under us.。
And I wanna actually begin to change your thinking。
about hope, because I think one of the reasons。
why the church has become so hopeless in this time。
when there needs to be a voice of hope。
is because we've actually come to define hope。
just like everybody else does in the world.。
I think even the idea of me speaking about hope this morning,。
if you're anything like me,。
that raises some pretty uncomfortable emotions at times.。
That's a pretty complex thing that happens to us.。
Because perhaps some of you are sitting here right now,。
and you've been burnt by hope in the past.。
Maybe you had hope for a season,。
but hope didn't work out for you.。
Maybe you were hoping that that relationship。
that was going on in your life,。
you were hoping that that got better,。
but it didn't get better.。
Maybe you were hoping to get a job this year,。
a job that you've always wanted and always dreamt for,。
and you had endless interviews, but nobody hired you.。
Or maybe there was a debt。
that you were hoping to pay off this year,。
and you didn't manage to pay it off,。
and you're wondering why.。
Or maybe you were trying to lead some people。
to faith this year, and they didn't come to faith,。
and you're beginning to ask questions.。
Or maybe you're grappling in a relationship,。
and you thought that that relationship would sort it out.。
Maybe there's a dispute going on,。
and you had great hope that 2024 would be the year。
when you would finally sort out that relationship,。
and it hasn't been sorted out,。
and you're entering into the new year。
with as much gloom about that as anything else.。
And all these things that you had been hoping for,。
nothing seems to have changed,。
nothing seems to have happened,。
nothing has come through.。
And if you're feeling like that,。
well, I feel like that a lot too.。
'Cause we are burnt at times by hope.。
And when you're burnt by hope,。
it makes you not even wanna think about it.。
And then when somebody like me starts to talk about it,。
you immediately kind of go,。
ah, I don't wanna be set up for failure again.。
Like, I'm not sure about this hope thing.。
I tried it, I tried it out,。
but it didn't quite work out for me.。
And I think as Christians,。
we have a tension that sits within us.。
'Cause we have this thought, don't we?。
That hope is a good thing,。
that this should be a good thing.。
The idea of hope is good.。
And yet the reality of our lives。
sometimes doesn't seem to add up to that.。
And we kind of sit within this tension。
between a good idea of hope。
and the reality that hope hasn't often come through for us.。
And as Christians, we wrestle with that,。
and we're not quite sure what to do with it.。
So when the topic of hope comes up,。
we kind of silence our voices.。
And I think a lot of reasons for this。
is because we are beginning to define hope。
the same way that society sees hope.。
Let me explain.。
Society, I think, essentially defines hope this way,。
that hope is an expressed desire。
for a positive outcome that is uncertain.。
Let me give an example.。
My daughter Mia, who's 14 years old,。
she this year is hoping for an iPad for Christmas.。
Now, when my daughter hopes for an iPad for Christmas,。
here's what she really means.。
"I have no idea if mom and dad are gonna buy me an iPad,。
"but I hope that they do.。
"I'm putting all my trust and all my hope。
"in something that is kind of uncertain,。
"but I'm hoping they'll come through for me."。
She doesn't know whether we're buying her one or not.。
By the way, she's not in this service.。
Let me just tell you, that's a false hope.。
We are not buying her an iPad this Christmas.。
Have you seen how expensive iPads are?。
I know, give me money, I will buy one.。
We're not buying her an iPad.。
That's a false hope, it's not happening.。
Or maybe you're sitting there and you think,。
"I hope Pastor Andrew only preaches for 15 minutes today,。
"'cause I wanna get out there and eat my cookies."。
What you're really meaning by that is,。
"I have no idea how long Pastor Andrew's going。
"to be preaching for.。
"I desire that it would be short,。
"but the fact that I've been coming to the Vine for so long,。
"I'll know that he'll probably go on for hours."。
But I had this expressed desire for it.。
You see what I'm saying?。
So hope is so often defined by this positive thing。
that I wanna happen,。
but I have no certainty that it's gonna happen.。
So hope becomes so uncertain.。
And when hope is defined essentially by uncertainties,。
by kinda, "I'm gonna throw a dart at a dartboard。
"and kinda hope that I'll hit a good number or whatever,。
"but I just don't know."。
Well, then when somebody says,。
"Hey, put your life into hope," you're like,。
"Hmm, I don't know if I should trust something。
"that is so out there."。
It raises a very important question for us.。
Why would I put my faith in something as flimsy,。
as uncertain, as doubtful as a hope?。
Are you with me?。
So because this is the case, here's what I've discovered.。
Christians don't really talk about hope very much.。
I mean, this fascinated me.。
I went to Bible school, to seminary for four years.。
We never did a class on hope.。
Faith, we did a lot of classes on faith, okay?。
Love, we nailed love.。
We talked about love all the time.。
We never once talked about hope.。
The only time that hope was mentioned at my seminary。
was by the teachers,。
because one of my classmates' first name was Hope.。
That was the only time when they ever mentioned。
the word hope.。
Us Christians, we don't talk about it。
'cause I think we're uncomfortable with it, and here's why.。
Because we're defining it in the same way。
that society defines it,。
and if hope is a desired positive outcome。
that is kind of uncertain,。
we don't wanna set people up for failure,。
so we've quietened our voice at the very time。
where the world needs to hear about hope again.。
The very people that should have the best thing to say。
about it are just not speaking up.。
Here's the funny thing.。
The Bible has a lot to say about hope.。
In fact, hope is mentioned over 600 times in our scriptures.。
Pretty much every book of the Bible。
has some sort of teaching or thought on hope.。
When you get to the New Testament,。
every second or third page in the New Testament。
speaks about this idea of hope.。
The Bible is filled with it.。
We should be filled with it.。
Paul, riding into the church,。
trying to help them to wrestle with this Advent thing。
that we've been talking about,。
the now but not yet, that Christ has come,。
that He is coming back, we're living in the in-between.。
Paul rides into his church,。
and he desperately wants them to understand。
that hope is a good thing, that hope is alive,。
that hope can change everything.。
But his church, like us today,。
are wrestling with the flimsy,。
uncertain kind of weirdness to hope.。
And so he writes in and he says,。
look, over 36 times in his letters,。
he mentions hope, 36 times.。
And every time he mentions hope,。
it's always embedded in a very important part of the letter。
and what he's trying to teach his church.。
And what I wanna do today is show you one of those moments。
'cause out of it, I wanna draw for you。
a better way of thinking about hope.。
And if you've walked in here today,。
again, a little bit like how I often wrestle with it,。
thinking like, when has hope ever done anything good for me?。
My prayer is that as you leave today,。
you will leave refreshed and renewed。
to become the voice that I think God。
is actually calling you to be。
in a time of a crisis of hope.。
Paul writes to one of his prodigies, a guy called Titus.。
You may not have looked at the book of Titus。
in the New Testament much, it's a very short book.。
Paul is writing to a man。
that he had spent a lot of time raising up,。
one of his prodigies, if you will.。
He was a church planter and a pastor in Crete,。
which is a small little island。
in the middle of the Mediterranean Ocean.。
And Paul writes to him and speaks to him。
about this idea of hope.。
There's just three verses, chapter two,。
starting in verse 11, let me read this to you.。
For the grace of God has appeared。
that brings salvation to all people.。
It teaches us to say no to ungodliness and worldly passions。
and to live self-controlled and upright godly lives。
in this present age.。
While we wait, notice this, for the blessed hope,。
the glorious appearance or the appearance of glory。
of our great God and savior, Jesus Christ.。
In just these three verses,。
Paul does something that he does。
in many places in his writings.。
He often, in just three verses,。
gives you something that's in the past,。
something in the present and something in the future.。
And you can see that when we break down the passage here.。
He's got something about what's happened in the past,。
something that should impact what's going on in the present.。
And then he leans us forward to the future.。
This is Paul's now but not yet tension。
in the time in which we live in.。
Christ has come, we're living in this time。
and Christ is coming.。
And that's the second thing, notice,。
he speaks about the appearance of God。
in the first place in the past.。
That's speaking about his first advent, his first coming.。
And then he speaks about at the end,。
his glory of his second return.。
That's speaking about the end of all things.。
And Paul is wanting his church to understand。
that they're living in this time between those two events.。
But then notice what he says remains.。
This is kind of a parallel passage。
to that 1 Corinthians 13 passage.。
He says, "There is a blessed hope."。
I love that phrase, blessed hope.。
Because like I was saying earlier,。
I think so often we think hope is cursed.。
Oh, we tried, we hoped, it didn't work out.。
And we got burnt again and hope didn't come through.。
Paul's writing and saying,。
"No, you need to begin to think differently about hope。
'cause hope is not cursed, hope is blessed.。
Hope is a blessing, hope brings blessing.。
And when we begin to understand the power that is in hope,。
it changes the way you begin to think.。
And rather than the church being sort of alongside。
of the rest of the world and thinking that hope is cursed,。
the church could raise up and begin to be a blessing。
in a time of crisis.。
Now, he's saying this is a blessed hope。
because Paul is teaching and understanding something。
that we all need to understand.。
Paul is not placing his hope in circumstance.。
He's not placing his hope here in some positive thinking。
or a way of having kind of better thoughts about something.。
He's not even placing hope within himself.。
Oh, I know what God has done in me, or I know who I am,。
or I know what I used to be,。
but I also know who I am today.。
And that gives me great hope.。
Not even in himself.。
He's saying the only place where hope can be found。
is in the one who is certain, the one who is all loving,。
the one who's all good, our hope is blessed。
'cause it's not found in our circumstances, our situations,。
it's found in the one who's never changing.。
It's found in him, in God.。
God is hope.。
In other words, Paul is saying God doesn't give hope,。
God is hope.。
And when you begin to shift your thinking away from,。
hey, my hope is in something that's uncertain,。
of course, that's gonna be cursed most of the time,。
but when you place your hope in the certainty。
of the one who never changes, then your hope becomes blessed.。
Paul would write differently to the church in Colossae,。
and he would say, look,。
you've got to understand it like this.。
I know what it is to be wealthy.。
I know what it is to be poor.。
I know what it is to be hungry.。
I know what it is to be well-fed.。
I know what it is to be shipwrecked.。
I know what it is to be safe.。
He goes through all this list,。
and he says, no matter the circumstance in my life,。
I have come to learn what it is to be content。
in any circumstance.。
He's talking about blessed hope,。
and he's holding onto this concept of hope being blessed。
because he's placing it not in uncertainty,。
but in what is certain.。
My daughter is placing her hope。
in the uncertainty of Chris and I's bank account,。
and that is very uncertain.。
I can let you know that now.。
Paul's not making that mistake.。
He's placing his hope in the only one。
that can be the fullness of that hope,。
and that's a beautiful, glorious, good thing.。
Ah, hope is blessed, he's saying.。
Hope is not in us.。
It's not in circumstance, as it's saying here behind me.。
It's not in just idea of positive thinking.。
It's not in kind of facts that kind of work themselves out.。
No, hope is only ever in this unchanging, lovable,。
this incredibly purposeful God who speaks truth。
and can only speak truth.。
That's where our hope is found.。
Are you with me?。
Now, as we begin to place our hope in that,。
he says, this is a blessed hope,。
and he said, you need to realize why this hope is blessed,。
and this is where he speaks about two incredible things.。
He goes back to the first advent of Christ,。
and I want you to notice the word he uses.。
He says, there is the grace of God appeared to us before.。
So he uses a word to link that summarizes。
what it is that God did in his first advent.。
He calls it grace.。
In other words, that Jesus was born。
in that stable in Bethlehem,。
that Jesus grew up to inaugurate the kingdom,。
that Jesus went to the cross to die for our sins,。
that, he's saying, is a story of grace,。
and because God came before,。
our hope is based in a story of grace.。
This grace means that if you align your heart and your life。
to the saving power of Jesus,。
if you recognize that he went to that cross。
to pay for your sin,。
he did that whilst you were still a sinner.。
He did that before you even knew him.。
He so loved you that he responded to you。
before you even knew that you needed him。
to be responding to.。
That's the story of grace,。
and Paul's saying your hope is founded on the root。
of this crazy idea that God's grace saves you,。
changes you, transforms you, equips you,。
and it's all because you didn't earn it,。
you didn't do something good for it.。
Even when you were still in the darkest depths of your sin,。
he came and loved you.。
That's grace.。
So he's like, understand that your hope is not arbitrary.。
That hope came at a high price.。
It came at the gift of the grace of a God。
who sent his son to die for your sins.。
Blessed hope, he says.。
But it's not just based in grace.。
He then takes us to the return of Christ。
at the end of all things,。
and he uses a different word.。
He says when he comes back, you will see glory.。
So he says our story of hope。
starts in this grace that's brought to us,。
but it's completed in this glory that comes。
when Christ returns.。
The glorification of the whole redemptive story。
that what Christ began in his birth and in his life。
and in his death and his resurrection only gets completed。
when he comes back to this world。
to restore and renew all things.。
That is when we get to see him in the glory.。
And Paul's saying your hope。
is not just founded in the grace story,。
it's also founded in the glory story.。
In fact, if he doesn't return,。
that's an issue for the grace story.。
The grace story finds its fullness。
in the glory story of him coming back.。
The God who came to you in grace。
is returning to you in glory.。
And as you begin to really wrestle。
with the wonder of a God who is grace。
at the start of my story and glory at the end of it,。
then everything in between begins to fall into place.。
It doesn't mean, like Paul to the church in Colossae,。
that everything's gonna work out perfect.。
Doesn't mean that suddenly my circumstances。
are all gonna be perfect.。
Doesn't mean that I'm gonna get that iPad for Christmas.。
She's not.。
What it does mean is that if I have Jesus at the start。
and I have Jesus at the end,。
then I can have Jesus right now.。
It means that I can have a relationship。
with this blessed hope that can raise in my spirit。
something that is different from the doom and the gloom。
and the despair that I see in this world.。
And I can begin to live on behalf of a hope,。
a glorious hope that's coming in the here and now.。
It's like Jesus said, "I'm the alpha and the omega,。
the first and the last."。
What he's basically saying is,。
"If you have me at your start,。
and if you're gonna have me at your end,。
then you have nothing to worry about in between."。
Doesn't mean that everything's gonna be perfect for you.。
It's gonna be some challenges.。
It's gonna be tough.。
It's gonna be hard.。
You will not go through it alone.。
I am Emmanuel, God with you.。
I'm at your start.。
I'm at your end.。
Everything else is in between.。
And Paul says, "This is blessed."。
He's like, "Could you imagine the privilege。
that it is to live in this time?"。
Imagine a church that would say,。
"Isn't it such a privilege to live in a time。
when everybody is doom and gloom?"。
'Cause then I've got something to say.。
I've got a hope to speak of.。
I've got a light that can shine,。
and that light shines brightest。
when it's pretty dark out there.。
It's interesting because it's not just Paul。
that speaks this way.。
There are writers throughout the New Testament。
that hold this idea of hope being this caught between time。
of the beginning and the end and the joy it is to live now.。
Let me just jump out of Paul for a second,。
take you to 1 Peter,。
and the apostle Peter is speaking here。
about the same kind of thing Paul's speaking about.。
Let me read this to you from 1 Peter 1, verse 3.。
Praise be to the God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ。
for in his great mercy, he has given to us,。
notice this, new birth into a living hope.。
Isn't that beautiful?。
Christ has given us this grace that's appeared,。
has given us this new birth into a living hope。
through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead。
and into an inheritance。
that can never perish, spoil, or fade,。
kept in heaven just for you,。
who through faith are shielded by God's power。
until the coming of the salvation。
that is ready to be revealed in the last time.。
Can you hear what Peter's saying here?。
It's so similar to what Paul's saying.。
In fact, let me just bring the two things side by side here。
so you can see them next to each other.。
Peter is speaking very similarly to Paul here.。
He's saying, look, we've got to understand。
that Christ has come and in his death and his resurrection,。
he started a new life.。
We, if we're in relationship with him,。
can have a new birth into what he calls a living hope.。
In other words, it's not just a hope。
that's anchored to the starting point of Christ in the past.。
It's not just a hope that's for us。
in the future at some point.。
No, he's saying the hope has resonance today.。
The hope brings life and is alive in us right here and now.。
And he's saying that hope is becoming。
because of this inheritance we have in Christ。
that we will be shielded by the power of God。
until we get there on that day。
and we will realize that we are dressed。
in his righteousness alone,。
so we'll have confidence to stand before the throne.。
That's a living hope that actually has pay,。
payback to our lives right here and now.。
Paul writes the same thing in the Titus passage.。
Look at verse 12 here.。
He says, here's what this blessed hope does.。
It teaches us to say no to ungodliness and worldly passions。
and to live a self-controlled, upright,。
and godly life in this present age.。
See, both Paul and Peter don't want you to think。
that hope was for the past and it's only for the future.。
They want you to realize that this hope is alive。
right here and right now.。
It's a living hope, it's a blessed hope,。
and when you get that hope, guess what?。
You have the ability to say no,。
to say no to exploitation that you see in the world,。
to say no to rampant consumerism,。
to say no to the injustices that you see,。
injustices out there, but also injustices in here.。
It enables me to say no to ungodly passions。
that come up within me.。
It enables me to be more self-controlled.。
It enables me that when my life doesn't go well,。
sure, I feel the pain of that, the hurt of that.。
I'm impacted by that.。
I want my life to go well, and when it doesn't,。
that hurts and it's difficult, but I can be self-controlled.。
I can begin to live in a way that actually puts。
the blessed hope of the past and the future。
right into work in the present right now.。
Could you imagine a church that is not confined。
to thinking that hope is uncertain and a curse,。
but that hope was alive and true。
and meant something right here in Hong Kong。
when so many people are crying out for hope?。
It's interesting to me because the hope。
that the world is speaking about, this societal hope,。
is so whimsical and such the power of positive thinking.。
And Paul's saying here, you need to understand。
that biblical hope is not the power of positive thinking.。
It's not thinking better about your life。
or thinking better about the future and going,。
I just hope things get better in the future.。
He's like, also, biblical hope is not naive.。
It's not the sort of hope that shuts its eyes。
to the problems of the world.。
It's not a hope that's trying to bury its head in the sand。
and kind of pretend like it doesn't really matter.。
Hope in the Bible is not gathering in a building like this。
and kind of cushioning ourselves from the evil in the world.。
That's not biblical hope.。
Biblical hope lights a fire inside of us。
to be able to live in a new and a fresh way,。
representing the heart of God。
in the darkness that's around us.。
Hope, biblically, is not shy about the pain。
and the suffering of this world.。
Hope welcomes us into the process of lament,。
where we lament together on what we're seeing。
in this now but not yet,。
longing for the time when glory will appear,。
grateful for the fact that grace has already come,。
living in the wonder between those two things。
and declaring to the world。
that there is a better day ahead.。
That's a beautiful thing.。
That's how I think Paul wanted his church to be.。
I think it's how God wants his church to be today.。
Christians should be the most hopeful people on the planet。
and in an hour like this,。
we should be rising up and finding our voice.。
It's important you understand that this sort of hope。
is what the Christmas story is all about.。
This is really interesting.。
I don't know if you've ever thought of the Christmas story。
by like stripping out all of the kind of like decorations。
and the gifts and the celebrations。
and the nice carols and all of that。
and just actually looked at the rawness。
of what Christmas is all about.。
At the very heart of it,。
the Christmas story is essentially a story。
of a teenage crisis pregnancy.。
It's a story of a young girl who finds herself pregnant。
without having ever slept with a man。
and the reality of the shame。
that that was gonna bring upon her and her fiance,。
the person that she was pledged to be married to。
but had not actually gotten married and had not had sex。
and suddenly she finds herself in a place of pregnancy。
which even today is a vulnerable thing。
but that was even more of a vulnerable thing back then.。
I mean, you can imagine almost the whispers。
of the people around them in Nazareth at the time,。
I told you that those two were getting together.。
I told you they were doing some dodgy stuff。
after that party last week.。
Look at what's happened.。
These guys are so ungodly, so broken, so horrible.。
So this is a story of a young girl who's done nothing wrong。
and has to live in the shame。
of everybody pointing her finger at her.。
Not only that, but she's pledged to be married。
to a working class man who's a carpenter。
who ends up actually living。
and they're living in a small town in a small country。
that's under oppression by a major dominant empire.。
Not only that, but their freedoms are not their own.。
We hear in the story that if her pregnancy。
and the shame of that was not worse enough,。
they didn't have to uproot themselves。
and move to another place that they did not know。
although it was the fiance's family home。
in this place called Bethlehem.。
They didn't know it, but they had to go there。
because a census was taking place.。
And when they got there, here was their hope.。
Their hope was that family members that lived there。
of the fiance would open their doors to them。
and welcome them in because she was heavenly pregnant.。
And they get there and guess what happens?。
Their very flesh and blood,。
their relatives refused to let them in。
even though I'm sure they had plenty of space。
in their own homes because they didn't want。
to be associated with the shame。
of an unmarried pregnant teenage girl.。
Oh, we talk about it like there was no room in the inn.。
The reality is none of the family would let them in.。
And so they have to go to this cave.。
Mangers, again, on the Hallmark Christmas cards。
look so pretty and nice and clean, don't they?。
They were basically caves that happened。
under the houses themselves where the animals。
would be to stay warm in winter under the house.。
So literally Mary and Joseph go to a cave,。
a dark, damp place, and they have their child there.。
And you could imagine for the mother。
that this was not how she had planned anything to be.。
This is not circumstances how she wanted it to be.。
But she brings her child into the world。
in less than perfect circumstances.。
But she has this audacious thought。
that her child was special.。
And she believed that the location of his birth。
did not determine his destiny or his future.。
And really the rawness of the Christmas story。
tells us this, that no matter how bleak。
circumstances might seem, even though the bad guys。
are currently in power, even though winners。
are lording it over losers, even though even family members。
are rejecting you and hurting you,。
that anything that's happening right now is not permanent.。
That God is able to bring his child and his presence。
into the midst of that right here and now.。
And Emmanuel, God with us, can change everything.。
If the Christmas story is anything, it's a story of hope.。
Hope in the darkest of circumstances.。
That's a story that the world needs to hear again.。
And the church carries with it, in its heart,。
that story of hope.。
That all of us have been marked by that story,。
that we all realize that we're a dark, damp cave,。
if you will, but if Jesus can be born in Bethlehem,。
he can certainly be born in the coldness of my heart.。
That he can come and make new life and new home in me.。
That the place of that birth in me。
can make me into a living hope.。
A hope that now stands before the world。
and says the story of Jesus in his grace。
and the story of his coming in his glory。
is the story that I want my life to represent.。
No matter how difficult things might be around us,。
I want my life to speak of something better。
than what is currently seen.。
See, Jesus would go on to inaugurate his kingdom。
and he would teach what that kingdom would look like,。
turning everything upside down from the doom and gloom。
that's seen in the world.。
He would teach that the first would be last,。
that the last would be first.。
He would teach that the lowly would be lifted up。
and that the hungry would be fed.。
Isn't that beautiful?。
He taught that those who are mighty right now。
would be thrown off their thrones。
and that the proud would be scattered in their thoughts.。
He taught actually that it would be the meek。
that would inherit the earth,。
not those with guns or power.。
He said that those who are mourning right now,。
who are overwhelmed by a diagnosis,。
who are wondering when they're gonna get that job,。
who are wondering what purpose they have for being here,。
who are struggling with the depths。
of the things that are there,。
the realities of their life,。
that even those that are really struggling right now,。
they will be comforted, he said.。
And Jesus starts this story。
because he's birthing new living hope in his people。
and he wants his church to stand on behalf of that.。
You've gotta understand that this is hope.。
The idea that we believe in the coming vision。
of the kingdom to come and we live on behalf of it now.。
This is hope, that even though we're surrounded。
by some of that story of suffering and pain,。
we realize that we can bear witness today。
to the power of our God to bring salvation。
and bring justice and bring healing。
and bring liberation to those that need it.。
This is hope, that even though we're surrounded right now。
by the story of death, the story of life。
can still make its voice heard,。
that we might join with Martin Luther King Jr.。
and say that we're gonna carve a little stone of hope。
out of the mountain of despair.。
This is hope and it's hope not because we're better。
or we've done something or we've earned it,。
it's hope because it's found in the person。
that Christmas speaks of, this Jesus,。
all loving, all good, all personable, present here,。
the Emmanuel, God with us, walking beside us,。
living for us, inaugurating the kingdom,。
paying the price for our sin,。
raising from the death, coming together,。
now coming in his glory at the end of all things。
and we stand in the middle and we say,。
what a time to be alive.。
This is hope.。
We have something to offer the world。
in the pain that it's in.。
And here's what that hope should do in and for us.。
It should give us a divinely inspired urgency。
to live like Jesus.。
The hunger and thirst for righteousness,。
to decide that we're going to move out of passive comfort。
and into costly solidarity with the poor。
and the broken and the vulnerable.。
This kind of hope challenges us,。
that we should persevere when life takes a hard turn,。
when the news comes against us and the diagnosis is present。
and the job isn't there, whatever it is,。
when life is so pulling against us。
that we have this ability to persevere,。
even though we of course long for a change。
in our circumstance, that we join with Paul。
and we say, I've learned the secret of being content。
no matter what happens because my trust。
and my ultimate hope is not found。
in some change of circumstance,。
it's found in the grace and the glory。
of the one that I love.。
That I might find myself lifted out of myself。
and towards hope again.。
I think this hope teaches us that those who hope。
in the Lord will renew their strength,。
that they will rise up on wings like eagles,。
that they will run and not grow weary.。
This sort of hope shows us, teaches us, empowers us。
to understand that we can be steadfast in this life,。
that when opposition comes to the things that we believe。
and think about, that when oppression comes。
to the church body as a whole,。
that when we're facing perhaps in some years ahead here,。
some of the challenges to how we think。
or some of the challenges to what we believe,。
we can find a living hope within us。
that produces within us a steadfastness。
to stand against whatever power of oppression may come,。
that we would join with scripture and say,。
we might be hard pressed on every side,。
but we are not crushed.。
We might be perplexed, but we are not in despair.。
We might be persecuted, but we're not abandoned.。
We might be knocked down, but we are not crushed。
because there is a living hope within us.。
And I think this living hope does this.。
I think it makes us begin to reimagine a world today。
that might look like the one that is to come,。
knowing that not until when Jesus gets back。
will it ever be the way it truly should be.。
We're not gonna see perfection here。
in the right here and now,。
but we can look towards that vision and say,。
I wanna think about and begin to build a society today。
where everybody has dignity, everybody is loved,。
where everybody has right opportunity,。
where everybody feels the hope and the comfort。
and the love of an all loving father,。
where exploitation is spoken about and dealt with,。
where hate is spoken out against and dealt with,。
where we actually begin to align our values。
with the things that we know is on the heart of God。
and we produce something within us。
that says something hopeful to the world.。
That's a church I think many people。
would wanna be a part of.。
May we find our voice.。
And I wanna give you some homework。
to help you to do that in the week ahead.。
Get out your phones, take a photo of this slide right now.。
In general, would you describe yourself。
as hopeful person or not?。
Why or why not?。
Number two, where currently in your life have you lost hope?。
Why do you think this might be the case?。
Number three, biblical hope is rooted。
in both grace and glory.。
Which of these might be lacking more。
in your current understanding of hope?。
And then finally four,。
biblical hope is not only future focused,。
but a living hope that invites us to bear witness。
to God's kingdom in the here and now.。
So where do you sense the Holy Spirit。
is inviting you to do this in your life?。
And what might that look like?。
Paul writes this beautiful thing to the church in Rome。
when he's talking to them about hope and a living hope.。
He says these beautiful words.。
He says this, he says,。
and this is kind of like his prayer for the church.。
He's like, "May the hope of the Lord,。
"the Lord of all hope,。
"may he birth this joy and grace within you。
"as you trust in him,。
"so that you might overflow with hope。
"by the power of the Holy Spirit."。
And if there was ever a prayer on my heart。
for us as a church community。
at a time of hope crisis in the world,。
where despair seems to be so commonly spoken about,。
that we might actually be the ones who overflow with hope,。
because the power of the Holy Spirit.。
The hope isn't in us.。
The hope isn't in uncertainty.。
It's certainly not in some better positive thinking.。
It's certainly not in some change in circumstance.。
Our hope only is in the grace and the glory of Jesus Christ.。
I hope that's been hopeful for you.。
Can we pray?。
Let's pray.。
Father, I'm just so grateful for the people in this room。
who carry within them a living hope.。
And Lord, we recognize that the church is often quiet,。
that we do so often define hope just like society does.。
And because we define hope that way,。
we don't talk about it very much.。
Hope is an embarrassment rather than a badge of honor.。
Father, we come to you now in this moment,。
thankful that Paul and Peter and others。
can help us to reimagine and reconnect。
to what blessed hope, living hope looks like.。
A hope that's not focused on our strength,。
our goodness, having it all together.。
A hope that's untethered from the changes of circumstance。
as much as we may long for them.。
A hope that is found in the unchanging,。
loving and purposeful arms of the Father.。
Father, I pray for people in this room。
who maybe came in today and they've been weighed down。
by brokenness in their past.。
Maybe something's happened to them, no fault of their own,。
but something happened to them in their past。
and they're still carrying the trauma with that today.。
Or perhaps in their past,。
they went through some really difficult times。
because of some choices they made.。
Maybe some mistakes, things that they regret,。
perhaps even some sin that they wrestled with。
that led to some pretty poor choices。
and some harsh circumstances.。
Father, if anybody's come in today with a pain。
when it comes to their past,。
Lord, I thank you that you spoke to us of hope。
that's founded in grace today.。
And Lord, I wanna pray for anyone。
where that's a reality for them in this moment,。
that Lord, your spirit would minister them right now。
in a place of hope,。
that your grace would fall upon them again。
and that grace would remind them。
that they are forgiven from that brokenness,。
forgiven from the mistakes they made,。
forgiven from the sin of the past,。
forgiven and wiped clean。
that what was before a stain before you。
is now white as snow.。
Lord, those that are struggling from a trauma in the past。
that was not their fault,。
I pray that your grace would cover that multitude。
for them as well.。
I pray that your grace would reach into the depths。
of where they're at。
and begin that process of healing and renewal and life.。
Lord, anyone where they're broken by their past,。
Lord, we pray for the hope that is found。
in the grace of Christ.。
Lord, for those in this room。
that are really worried about the future,。
Lord, where they're anxious about what's ahead,。
maybe their health gives them a bad picture of what's ahead.。
Maybe the lack of a job and the pressures of finance。
gives them a stress and anxiety about what's ahead.。
Maybe they're looking for that full life relationship,。
that person they're gonna spend。
the rest of their life with。
and that person hasn't come along yet。
and they're wondering if it ever will.。
Father, for those in this room。
that are anxious about their future,。
Lord, I wanna pray for the hope。
that is founded in the glory of Christ Jesus.。
The hope that is found in the sure fact。
that Jesus is returning to this world again.。
And when he does, all brokenness is dealt with,。
sin is gone, death no more.。
That there is healing and restoration for all,。
that all things are made new.。
That when we live in the beauty of the glory。
of the return of Christ,。
it releases us from the anxieties of what we think is ahead。
'cause what ahead is good.。
So Lord, I pray for anyone。
who's struggling with their future,。
that the glory that is found in the living hope today。
would restore them.。
And Lord, for us in this moment,。
for us in the now that we're a part of,。
Father, would your Holy Spirit come?。
Would the God of hope bring joy and peace to this moment?。
And perhaps if you're receiving this word today。
as our eyes are closed, you just wanna open your hands.。
It's just a simple way of just symbolizing before the Lord。
that you wanna respond now。
to the ministry of the Spirit of God upon you.。
And I believe for some of you now in this moment,。
maybe it's been a while since you felt joy and peace.。
It's been a while since you felt true hope.。
I wanna pray that the God of hope。
would pour out joy and peace。
and cause you to overflow with hope。
through the power of the Holy Spirit.。
So Holy Spirit, would you come?。
And would you come and minister in this way right now?。
Lord, for those people whose hands are open before you here,。
would your Holy Spirit begin the joy and the peace。
and the renewed life that is found in the grace。
and the glory of Christ Jesus。
and the living hope that is made true now?。
I pray that you just receive the ministry of the Spirit.。
Our choir are gonna now respond and sing over us,。
but I wanna encourage you just to keep your eyes closed,。
resist the urge to film it on your camera,。
resist the urge to move from this moment.。
This is a very important moment for most of you right now.。
So as your eyes are closed, as your hands are open,。
allow the lyrics of this song and the ministry of the choir。
to facilitate what the Holy Spirit is doing in you.。
(gentle music)。
(singing in foreign language)。
♪ It will be mine ♪。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
