ministry of your word. And we thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, "Amen, amen." Have a seat, have a seat.。
If you've been coming to the Vine for a while, you'll know that here at the Vine,。
we largely teach in series. Here, we take a theme or a book of the Bible,。
and we just kind of preach over five or six, seven weeks in a series.。
But every once in a while, between a series, we have a couple of weeks break。
before we start the next one, and we get a chance to kind of do one-off messages,。
bringing something that is maybe on our heart as a leadership to you,。
as a church body, or something that I might be sensing in my spirit that I want to kind。
of communicate to us. And today is one of those kind of one-off moments,。
so I'm excited about that. But what I want to do today is actually。
do like a part two to my message that I preached last week.。
Last week, we finished our sermon series on Psalm 27, where we were unpacking this idea。
of waiting seasons, what it is to be in a season of waiting, whether we're waiting。
for an answer to prayer, whether we're waiting for God to bring breakthrough。
in a certain area of our lives, whether we're waiting for relational change。
or circumstance change in our lives. Every single one of us have resonated,。
I think, over the month of January with this idea that we're in waiting seasons。
and we're needing God to move. And last week, we finished the series by me saying,。
"Look, when we're in a waiting season, like David, we have to truly believe。
and be confident that we will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living."。
Amen? That we will see His goodness at work around us.。
But the challenge I brought us last week that is so often in order for us to see。
the goodness of God at work in the land of the living, it actually requires a change。
in how we're defining and understanding His goodness in the first place.。
And the reality for so many of us as Christians, myself included,。
is that it's easy for us to define God's goodness very subjectively.。
Like I can say that God is good because He's done something that I've deemed good for me.。
Does that make sense? So because we've felt that God has done something good,。
or we feel like we've been the recipient of something that God has done that's good,。
we can say, "He is good." But if we're in a season of our lives where it feels like。
we're not getting what we want, where we're not getting the replies to those prayers。
or the breakthroughs that we're desiring, it can be very easy for us subjectively。
to begin to say, "I'm not sure if God is good."。
And so if we want to be like David, to be confident in seasons of waiting。
that the goodness of God will be seen in the land of the living,。
there's a need for us to reorient, to change our understanding of the definition of His goodness。
away from that subjective thing to a more objective biblical understanding。
that when the Bible says God is good, it's a statement of God's character。
and His actions in this world, irrespective of whether we have personally experienced it or not.。
That in that reorientation, we are able to declare that, yes, God is good all the time.。
And all the time, that all the time, God is good. Amen.。
Well, I want to kind of lean into that kind of thing,。
but I want to look at a different element of our relationship with God。
and a different element maybe of His character that I think still we get stuck。
in this subjective space and perhaps we need to elevate ourselves。
to a more objective position within it.。
And I want to talk specifically about a reoriented view of God's power in our lives.。
A reorientated view of God's power in our lives.。
And to do that, I want to take us to a very, very famous passage of Scripture。
from the Old Testament, that moment where Daniel's three friends,。
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, go into the fiery furnace.。
And it's a story that I'm sure you've heard many times before,。
particularly if you've been in Sunday school at any time in your life.。
But even as adults, it's perhaps something that we've read lots of times。
or heard someone preach lots of times.。
It's a very familiar story.。
But I want to dive into it, perhaps from a slightly different perspective today,。
and hopefully draw out some things that will help you。
to begin to think about a reorientation of power in your life.。
And I believe that as we do this, as we allow Scripture to transform。
some thinking within us, that I believe this might be a significant shift。
for some of you here in this room, online, watching the overflow,。
in the season of waiting that you find yourself in.。
Now, before we open the passage, let me give you some vital context to it.。
The whole book of Daniel is a story of Daniel, his three friends,。
and others that are living at a time in exile and in captivity。
in the land of Babylon.。
Now, we know from church history that Babylon invaded Jerusalem。
around about 560 to 600 BC.。
At that time, Israel was a split nation.。
Ten of the tribes had gone north and had set up a new nation north,。
and Assyria had come and attacked them in 722 BC.。
Two of the tribes remained south, Benjamin and Judah.。
And about 560 to 600 BC, Babylon comes in and attacks them.。
Now, Babylon's foreign policy is really important to the backdrop。
of Daniel chapter 3 in the story of the fiery furnace.。
Babylon's foreign policy was essentially this.。
Not only did they want to go into a foreign land,。
kill the people there, desecrate the land itself.。
In other words, do ethnic cleansing.。
Their also focus was to do this other thing called cultural cleansing.。
They didn't want to just wipe people out in their land.。
They wanted to wipe out their culture for all time.。
And so everything that's structured in the way that Babylon grew their empire。
was in the assimilation and the eradication of the culture groups of other people.。
They were the dominant power attacking a minor power。
and trying to wipe out that culture.。
And so you see this as they storm into Jerusalem itself.。
They bring down the walls of Jerusalem. They destroy the temple in Jerusalem.。
They kill many of the leaders and the armies of Jerusalem at that time.。
But here's what they do. This is fascinating.。
They take a remnant of Israel, but a very specific remnant,。
a very small group of them, the artisans.。
They took the artisans, the artists, and the painters,。
and the poets, and the storytellers,。
and they took them into captivity with them in Babylon.。
That's why, by the way, it's kind of interesting。
that so many Psalms were written in the captivity in Babylon,。
because these songwriters and these storytellers。
were the cultural carriers of Israel.。
Does that make sense to you?。
They were the cultural carriers, so they take them back to their land,。
not so that they can learn from their culture,。
so they can eradicate that culture.。
We don't have time to look at it here this morning,。
but in Daniel chapter 1, you specifically see this at work.。
Three things happen in Daniel chapter 1.。
First of all, the articles of worship from the temple。
are removed from the Jewish people in captivity,。
so they can no longer worship their God in the way that they used to.。
They couldn't worship Yahweh in the ways that they did back in Jerusalem.。
Now, that was important,。
because they were trying to religiously cleanse the Jewish people.。
The second thing that happens in Daniel chapter 1。
is that they're no longer allowed to speak in Hebrew.。
You might understand that language is so connected to culture, right?。
If you really want to understand someone's culture,。
you ought to learn their language.。
So they say, "You're no longer allowed to speak Hebrew ever again.。
You've got to learn our Babylonian tongue, our Babylonian language."。
And then the third thing that happens is an identity shift.。
What they do is they force this remnant of Jewish people。
to no longer use their Jewish names.。
Not only are they no longer allowed to speak in Hebrew,。
they're not allowed to carry Hebrew names anymore.。
And so in Daniel chapter 1, everybody is renamed to a Babylonian name.。
So these three friends of Daniel, Meshach, Shadrach, and Abednego,。
those are their Babylonian names.。
And they get named those Babylonian names in the rest of the Daniel story.。
So there's this eradication of religious culture.。
There's an eradication of their own kind of language, where their culture sits.。
And then there's an eradication of their identity as Hebrew people.。
And all of this is the backdrop to chapter 3.。
Because what Daniel is setting up,。
as he's recounting the reality of what is happening,。
is he's saying, "You've got to understand。
that there was a dominant power in the world at this time, Babylon,。
run by this king, King Nebuchadnezzar.。
And what Nebuchadnezzar is doing is trying to eradicate our culture,。
trying to cleanse us from anything that we have in relation to who we are.。
And this is done through power, through attack,。
through coercion, and through manipulation."。
That's Daniel chapter 1, attack, power, attack, coercion, and manipulation.。
A dominant power pushing its power on a minority group。
in order to establish them as the number one。
and to wipe out that group all together.。
And this, my friends, is the way that it always works,。
in the way of worldly power.。
When world governments or worldly power or corporations。
think about how do we change individuals within our society,。
the thought is always, "How do we externally do something to change what is internal?"。
It's always external pressure or power to change what's within.。
That's the worldly work of the transformation of power.。
That is not the way it works in the kingdom of God. Amen.。
We don't change through some external thing。
that kind of pressures us to kind of act and be in a different way.。
The way the kingdom is described in the New Testament through the death。
and resurrection of Jesus and our relationship with Him。
is that there is a change within us by the power of God from the inside out.。
The same Spirit that raised Jesus from the dead,。
now at work living in us, changing and transforming and renewing us。
from the inside out, making us more and more,。
forming us into the likeness of Jesus more and more.。
When the kingdom wants to change a society,。
it changes the people from the inside out.。
And so if we as Christians wanting to operate in the kingdom,。
in the world around us, then we need to be really careful。
that we reorient our understanding of power away from the way the world deems it。
and then see it again in the fresh way that the kingdom does it.。
And when the church fails to do this, the church becomes an oppressive power itself.。
This is going to be feisty today, by the way.。
I'm just, we're going to lean into this a little bit.。
Is that okay?。
So when the church dresses itself in worldly power,。
it can become a tool of oppression.。
Whereas when the church is submitted to the work of God's Spirit in this world,。
it becomes a truly transformative agent for all eternity.。
To get from there to there, there needs to be a reorientation of power.。
And that is what Daniel 3 is all about.。
So let's start with this in Daniel 3 chapter 1.。
And we're going to work our way through the chapter a little bit.。
Is this okay so far?。
Everybody all right?。
All right, cool.。
Here's Daniel chapter 1.。
"King Nebuchadnezzar made an image of gold 90 feet high and 9 feet wide。
and set it on the plain of Jura in the province of Babylon.。
He then summoned the satraps, the prefects, the governors,。
the advisors, the treasurers, the judges, the magistrates,。
and all other provincial officials."。
Basically all the people in power to come to the dedication of the image that he had set up.。
So the treasurers, and the satraps, and the prefects, and the governors,。
and the advisors, and the treasurers, and the judges, and the magistrates,。
and all the other officials assembled for the dedication of the image。
that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up.。
And they stood before it.。
"Then the herald loudly proclaimed,。
'This is what you are now commanded to do, O peoples,。
nations of every men and women and every language.。
As soon as you hear the sound of the horn, or the flute, or the zither,。
or the lyre, or the harp, or the pipes, or all kinds of music,。
you must fall down and worship the image of gold that King Nebuchadnezzar has set up.。
Whoever does not fall down and worship will immediately be thrown into a blazing furnace.'"。
Now I want you to sense and see, because of the backdrop I've provided,。
the power that is at work here.。
This is a worldly power at work.。
This is a dominant empire pushing its power on everybody else.。
And at the center of that power is one man, King Nebuchadnezzar.。
And King Nebuchadnezzar is like this authoritarian ruler and power,。
where he says, "Jump."。
Everybody in his empire needs to say, "How high?"。
And this is what the first few verses of Daniel 3 is all about.。
This is the pinnacle of him saying, "Jump," and you saying, "How high?"。
He sets up an idol and he says, "Everybody here in my empire,。
regardless of who you are, where you're from, where your background is,。
it doesn't matter.。
If you're under my power, which you all are, then you need to bow down.。
When the music plays, get on your knees and worship this.。
And if you don't do that, here's my power.。
I'm going to throw you in a burning, blazing furnace."。
You can almost hear him go, "Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha," at the end of it, right?。
Like this is a man drenched in the oppressiveness of worldly power.。
And he's saying to his people, "You have a choice, but it's not a choice actually at all."。
It's like, you know, cake or death.。
Like which one do you want, right?。
Like bow down to the idol or you will die.。
That's your choice.。
But it's not really a choice because nobody really wants to die.。
So basically bow down to my idol.。
I want you to see something really important here.。
Nebuchadnezzar has placed himself at the center of all power.。
And he's having his whole empire move and revolve around him.。
Does that make sense?。
He's the solid center that everything else is revolving around.。
Except for three people, Daniel's friends.。
In fact, some astrologers hear that there's three people in the empire。
that are refusing to bow down to the idol that Nebuchadnezzar has created.。
And they come to Nebuchadnezzar and they say,。
"Do you realize that there are three people in your whole empire。
that are not doing what you're asking them to do?。
And you said that you would kill them.。
So you should probably kill them now."。
And I want you to see Nebuchadnezzar's response.。
This is verse 13, same chapter.。
Here's how he responds.。
"Furious with rage, Nebuchadnezzar summons Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego."。
That will always be the reaction to somebody in oppressive power。
who's oppressing that power on others.。
And when a minority from within that power tries to step back,。
push back, say something, do something against that power,。
that person in dominant power will always be furious with rage.。
And he attacks on power from somebody who's desperately trying to cling to it.。
Furious with rage. So these men were brought before the king.。
And Nebuchadnezzar said to them,。
"Is it true, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego,。
that you do not serve my gods or worship the image of gold that I've set up?"。
Now, I'm going to give you a second chance.。
It's basically what he's saying.。
When you hear the sound of the, and I'm not going to go through it all,。
but all the music, okay?。
When you hear all the music, if you are ready to fall down。
and worship the image I've made, very good.。
I'll let you go. I'll let you live.。
But if you do not worship it, you will be thrown immediately into a blazing furnace.。
Then what god will be able to rescue you from my hand?。
I want you to see the arrogance of this kind of power.。
And then it's at work.。
Now, here's the important thing.。
For Meshach, Shadrach, and Abednego, this was not a theoretical power.。
This was a real power before them.。
Does that make sense?。
Like this king had the power to send them to their deaths in the blazing furnace.。
So this is not a threat of power.。
This is actual, the reality of a real power that's at work before them in their lives.。
And Nebuchadnezzar says to them this very critical thing right at the end of the passage.。
He says, "When I do that, when I throw you into the furnace, who's God?"。
Like what God is able to save you, basically, from what I do.。
No God is going to be able to step in.。
In other words, I have the ultimate power here.。
You following this?。
Like I'm the one who's got the ultimate power.。
I'm in the center.。
Everything is revolving around me.。
And here's the expression of that ultimate power.。
I hold your life and death in my hands.。
And that was a reality, not a theory.。
Like he was literally able to throw them into the burning furnace to kill them.。
This was a reality.。
And he's saying this is the ultimate authority and the ultimate power in this world.。
I can kill you, so bow down to this idol, otherwise, see you later.。
The great question in the passage is, what are these three men going to do?。
Like, are they going to succumb to the reality of a dominant power?。
Or are they somehow going to be able to reorientate that power in a way that will bring glory?。
To God.。
The three friends reorient power in two ways.。
Let me show you the first way.。
This is from verse 16 onwards.。
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego replied to the king,。
"O Nebuchadnezzar, we do not need to defend ourselves before you in this matter.。
If we are thrown into the blazing furnace, the God that we serve is able to save us from it.。
And he will rescue us from your hand, O king.。
But even if he does not, we want you to know, O king,。
that we will not serve your gods or worship an image of gold that you have set up."。
Oh, the courage and the boldness in these three men。
to stand before the dominant power of their time, a real power, and say this.。
Notice what they say first of all.。
This is the first reorientation.。
They say, "O Nebuchadnezzar, we do not need to defend ourselves before you on this matter."。
I love this.。
This is them saying something very direct。
and very attacking to that dominant power in King Nebuchadnezzar.。
They're like, "We don't need to defend ourselves before you in our actions."。
The reason why they can say that is because basically what they're saying to the king is this,。
"You're not the ultimate authority here.。
Like, you think you're the ultimate authority here。
because you've centered yourself in your empire and everything in your empire is moving around you.。
But for the three of us, you're not the ultimate authority in your life.。
You are a power.。
You have very real power.。
And that power is at work in us.。
And that power surely could send us to the furnace.。
But you need to understand that our defense here is not to you.。
Our defense is to someone else.。
That we see that there is a more dominant power,。
a more greater authority than the one that you hold amongst us,。
as real and as scary as it is.。
And our defense will have to be towards our actions, towards that one, not to you."。
This is a powerful reorientation of power in a situation。
where I think the majority of us would bow down.。
I know I probably would have.。
And I'm a pastor and I'm being honest with you.。
And please come back to church next week.。
But I'm just being honest with you.。
Would I have bowed down?。
Or would I have said, "I don't need to defend myself to you.。
I've got a power greater than yours."。
I think I know which side of that I might have fallen into.。
But not only do they say that, then notice what they say next.。
This is so cool.。
They say, "If we are thrown into the blazing furnace,。
the God we serve is able to save us from it.。
He will rescue us from your hand, O king."。
So I want you to see they don't just say to King Nebuchadnezzar,。
"There's a greater authority than you."。
In other words, we don't need to defend ourselves before you.。
We're going to defend, if we're going to defend ourselves against anything,。
it's to a higher authority.。
They don't just say there's a higher authority, King Nebuchadnezzar.。
They also say there's a higher power.。
That that one who's in higher authority。
also has greater power than you will ever have.。
And so we believe in that power over you.。
So sure, you could throw us into the furnace.。
That's your power over us.。
But our God's power over you is that He could rescue us。
out of that blazing furnace.。
He could save us from it.。
We could be not singed at all.。
We would find new life.。
They stand before the king and say there's a greater authority。
and that greater authority has a greater power.。
And we believe in that power.。
That's faith, my friends.。
That's people facing a really challenging circumstance。
where they might be killed.。
And they're confessing a faith that I hear and I read in the passage。
and go, "I long for that kind of faith."。
The kind of faith to stand before whatever situations。
and circumstances that might be in my life。
and say there's a greater authority than that circumstance.。
I don't need to defend myself to the circumstance that's against me.。
I'm not downplaying it.。
I'm not ignoring it.。
I'm not trying to sweep it under the rug.。
I recognize that it's got some power at work in my life.。
But I'm going to, as a Christian, stand on this one thing.。
I'm going to reorientate the reality。
of what the power of that circumstance is trying to say to me.。
And I'm going to say, "I do not need to defend myself to you, circumstance."。
I need to defend myself before the Lord and how I react and I respond.。
And His power is greater than anything that this is trying to tell me.。
I mean, that's exciting faith.。
That's the kind of power at work in this God that we see throughout Scripture.。
The power to create a world out of nothing.。
The power to split a sea when the Israels needed to find rescue.。
The power to feed them like food from heaven dropping down.。
The power of Jesus to walk on water to calm the storm.。
Power of Jesus to raise the dead.。
The power of God to be at work in Jesus.。
To raise Him from death to life.。
Even after all of the sin has been placed on His shoulders.。
The power of God to then pour out that power by the Spirit in His church.。
That same Spirit that raised Jesus now sits in me.。
This is the power that we read about throughout all of Scripture.。
And everything the Bible says is that we are to stand before the things that are around us.。
And declare in a reorientation of power that your thing is not as strong as God's power over me.。
So as challenging and as devastating as cancer is, cancer is not your ultimate authority.。
As influential with the economy and the global world as political leaders have.。
They are not the ultimate authority in this world.。
As personal as it can be when somebody says something to you.。
And tries to shape you in a certain way.。
Other people's opinion of you is not the ultimate authority.。
Trauma is not the ultimate authority.。
Sin even is not the ultimate authority.。
We are to reorientate our way of thinking.。
That even though those things have significant work in our lives.。
Even though those things are very real and very much at work.。
We have to decide for ourselves.。
Are we going to be people who stands at the defense of the circumstance.。
Or are we going to be people that stands and says.。
There is an authority greater than that cancer.。
Authority greater than that trauma.。
And authority greater than that sin.。
And I bow to that.。
Oh I want that faith.。
And I know that there have been seasons in my life where I have had that faith.。
But I also know that there have been times in my life.。
Where that faith has not been there.。
I know that there have been seasons in my life.。
Where actually the circumstance has spoken louder to me.。
Than my faith in a God that's greater.。
In fact there have been some seasons in my life.。
Where I've really struggled with the reorientation of this first step.。
Because there have been times in my life.。
Where I have prayed and I have hoped for myself and my family.。
Or I've prayed and I've hoped for you in this room.。
And I haven't seen God come through.。
I haven't seen that power at work.。
I didn't get to see those prayers answered.。
I didn't get to see the miracle that that person needed.。
In a recent time praying desperately.。
For a personal friend to be released from cancer.。
And I didn't see him released from cancer.。
And attended his memorial just recently.。
I mean there have been plenty of times.。
Where it feels like that power hasn't come through.。
For what I was hoping it would come through for.。
And in those times we have a deep question.。
That we have to ask ourselves.。
What do we do with that?。
And if I'm honest here's what I think so happens.。
So much happens for us as Christians.。
I think if we always believe.。
That God can miraculously change circumstance.。
But never does.。
Then surely over time it's understandable.。
That we might begin to lose our trust with him.。
That we might begin to second-guess his nature.。
We might begin to second-guess.。
These beautiful passages in scripture.。
We might begin to have greater questions.。
And begin to wrestle with it.。
And here's the reality in this story.。
There's two reorientations of power.。
The first one is critical.。
That we have to recognize.。
That there is a greater power in our lives.。
Than the power of the circumstance we're in.。
But if we only ever reorientate us with that power.。
And not the second one I'm about to show you in the scriptures.。
We'll end up with like Nebuchadnezzar.。
A fury of rage to a God.。
Who has that power and doesn't seem to exercise it for us.。
There's a second reorientation of power that's needed.。
To liberate us from some of those painful.。
Honest and true and real questions that we hold.。
That can deeply impact our faith in our walk with Jesus.。
We have to also reorientate ourselves in this other way.。
Let me show you what that other way is.。
In verse 15, just before or 16, it says this.。
Or 17, sorry.。
"If we are thrown into the blazing furnace.。
The God that we serve is able to save us from it.。
And he will rescue us from your hand, O king.。
But even if he does not.。
We want you to know, O king.。
That we will not serve your gods or worship the image of gold that you have set up."。
Here's the second reorientation of power.。
Not only do they say there's a greater authority and a greater power than you.。
And our God can save us.。
They then say this.。
"But even if he does not.。
We're not going to bow down.。
We're not going to worship your gods.。
We're not going to do the things that you want.。
Even if God doesn't do it.。
We're still going to stay strong."。
Now here's the challenge we've got when you hear this.。
I think we misinterpret so much of what they're saying in this very famous line.。
"But even if he does not."。
Here's how I think we often hear it.。
When they say, "But even if he does not."。
They are not saying, "But even if we're wrong."。
Which I think is so often how we think it is that they're saying.。
Like we believe that our God is all-powerful.。
More power than you.。
We believe that if you throw us into the furnace, he can deliver us from it.。
We actually truly believe that.。
But if we're wrong, we're not going to bow down to your idols.。
If we're wrong, if we got it wrong, we're not going to...。
We do this so often as Christians.。
And I'm going to just challenge us with this.。
I think for many of us, we build our faith on a folding deck of cards.。
Because we build our faith on this idea of, "I believe in Jesus.。
And I believe everything the Bible says about Jesus.。
But when I die, if I'm wrong, it doesn't matter.。
Because I still wanted to live for Jesus today.。
I still believe that his morals and his values were right.。
I still believe it was the best way for me to be a human being in this world.。
So I'm going to commit myself in my faith to Jesus.。
But if I die and I'm wrong, so be it.。
It was still the right way to live."。
That's not what these three friends are saying here.。
And my friends, that's not faith.。
That's hedging your bets.。
The three of Daniel's friends here are not hedging their bets.。
They're not in a casino in the world.。
And they put some money down on multiple numbers at the roulette thing.。
And they're spinning the roulette.。
And they're like, "We hope our numbers come up.。
But if our numbers don't come up, it's okay.。
We're still not going to do what you want us to do."。
That's not faith, my friends.。
That is hedging your bets.。
When they say, "But even if he doesn't..."。
Here's what they're saying.。
And you get this out of the Hebrew.。
Here's what they're saying.。
They're saying, "But even if in this circumstance,。
he chooses not to exercise that power."。
That's a very different thing.。
They don't go before Nebuchadnezzar and say,。
"Well, hey, but if we're wrong, so be it.。
But we're not going to bow down."。
They go before Nebuchadnezzar and they say this,。
"Not only is there a greater authority in this world than you.。
Not only is there a greater power in this world than you.。
Not only is the power of life and death not in your hands.。
It's in Yahweh.。
It's in God's hands.。
And we believe that he can absolutely exercise that power。
to save us from the burning furnace.。
But if he chooses, for whatever reason,。
and for whatever thing, to not exercise that power,。
that's on him, not on us.。
We're still not going to bow down to your God.。
And it does not impact our relationship with him,。
what we think about him, or the power that sits in his hands.。
Are you with me, church?。
Like this is a reorientation of power。
that desperately needs to take place for us.。
Otherwise, we're going to get stuck in believing in a powerful God。
who can change circumstance.。
And when it seems like he doesn't change that circumstance,。
we get furious with rage.。
We let go of faith.。
We crumble like a deck of cards.。
And here the three friends say,。
"We believe he can.。
But if for some reason he decides not to exercise that power。
in this circumstance, it does not change our trust in him.。
He is still good."。
Oh, that's a whole nother level.。
That's a whole nother level.。
I remember when I became a senior pastor here just beforehand,。
God had to do some of this work in my heart.。
And I didn't realize it at the time.。
But now as I look back, I realize why.。
Because as a pastor, you know, I've had the joy。
over these last 15 years of seeing so many of your lives changed,。
of hearing of so many great testimonies。
of the way in which God has broken in by his power,。
has healed people miraculously,。
has changed lives in a second,。
has totally changed circumstance.。
And I mean, there have been so many great stories。
where we've heard God step in.。
But as your pastor, I can also say this.。
There have been many other stories where God hasn't healed,。
where he hasn't come through,。
where my friend did pass away from cancer,。
where things didn't go the way that we were praying。
and interceding and fasting for.。
And I'm so grateful to God that he needed to reorientate。
my understanding of power before I became a pastor,。
because otherwise it would have been a very painful 15 years.。
And it is painful still to sit with so many of you。
when God doesn't seem to bring the breakthrough。
and see the devastation and walk with you.。
It's one of the great privileges of a pastor。
to walk with people in the brokenness。
and in the crisis of life.。
And that is one of our great joys as a team here。
to do that for you.。
But I'm grateful that the Lord has reorientated that power。
in my life before I even stepped in to do this job.。
Otherwise, I think I would not be standing here now.。
So a few years before becoming pastor here,。
my wife and I were going through a really challenging time.。
And most of you will know this story,。
so I'm gonna give the high notes to it.。
But our challenging time was that。
we were trying to try for children,。
weren't able to have children.。
My wife and I went through the test。
and it turned out that the issue was with me,。
not with my wife.。
And eventually the doctors,。
after about a year of procedures and some surgery,。
the doctors worked out that I had a condition。
called azuspermia.。
Azuspermia means that I don't have any sperm.。
There's no sperm.。
My body does not create sperm.。
So if you're trying to get pregnant,。
that's a big issue, right?。
That's kind of like a no-no.。
And this was a devastation for my wife and I,。
'cause we felt like God had put it on our hearts。
to be able to have children.。
And yet He had then made me in such a way。
that I was not able to do that.。
And I remember at that time,。
I was in Bible school,。
my wife and I were in Bible school,。
and I remember thinking to myself,。
I do not need to defend myself to that circumstance.。
I have a God who's all powerful.。
I have a God who just with a moment's notice。
could give me what I need to help us get pregnant.。
Like I totally believed and totally hung on。
and knew that that was the power of my God.。
That was the first reorientation.。
Are you with me?。
Like I needed to pray that prayer.。
And so for about three or four months,。
I remember contacting,。
we were in New Zealand at the time,。
but I remember contacting everybody back here,。
all the leadership,。
John and Tony, who were the senior pastor at the time.。
I was like, let's fast and pray.。
Let's believe for a miracle.。
Chris and I are praying every day.。
We know that God can act.。
We know that He can move.。
And so for three or four months,。
here was my prayer every single day.。
I'm not even making this up.。
Here's my prayer.。
God, give me one sperm.。
I don't need 200 million like every other man.。
I just need one that swims great.。
This was my prayer.。
And I believe that God could do it.。
Amen.。
And even to this day,。
I believe that God can do it.。
Now my wife and I hope that God doesn't do it now.。
Okay.。
Because we're old now.。
But 20 years ago,。
that was our prayer.。
I still believe He could,。
but we're kind of like,。
thanks Lord, we believe He can.。
Please don't, but we believe He can.。
Back in those days, it was like,。
Lord, I just need one sperm.。
I need that sperm.。
I want that sperm.。
I want it, blah, blah, blah.。
So we're praying it and praying it and praying it.。
And I want you to hear this.。
That was not a wrong prayer.。
Amen.。
That's never a wrong prayer.。
It's never wrong to pray for God。
to exercise His power in this world.。
In fact, every time that Jesus taught people to pray,。
your heaven come on earth.。
We should never be a church in defeat.。
We should never be a church where circumstance tells us。
that we need to defend ourselves to circumstance.。
That is never who we are.。
We are always a church who proclaims in the goodness of God。
and the power of God.。
And I will always be praying。
for God to bring breakthrough in my life.。
And those prayers for four months were absolutely right.。
But after four months,。
God came to reorientate me a second time.。
And as I was praying one day,。
I was sitting in this chair.。
I can picture it.。
I know the moment because it was one of those breakthrough moments in your life.。
And I was sitting there.。
I was praying, "Lord, would you give me one sperm?"。
And here's what the Lord said.。
He said, "Andrew, your prayer should not be, 'God, give me one sperm.'。
Your prayer should be, 'God, make me into a man who's content,。
whether I have children or not.'"。
Oh, that wasn't on my agenda.。
That's not what I wanted.。
But I needed a reorientation of power to begin to understand that actually, perhaps,。
even if in this case, where I'm saying,。
"God, just give me a sperm.。
Move in your power.。
Change my life."。
That God, for whatever reason,。
that He understands and that He knows that I don't,。
that He's not going to exercise that power in that moment.。
What He wants instead is a contentment in my relationship with Him.。
That I am not driven by what God does or doesn't do for me.。
But I am liberated from that kind of faith.。
And I have a different faith that grounds me in a new way of thinking,。
where it says, "Even if you don't heal me, even if you don't do it, Lord,。
it doesn't affect the reality that I'll pray for it.。
But it also doesn't affect the reality of my love for you, my trust for you,。
my recognition that you are all-powerful and almighty.。
Reorientate my selfishness, Lord.。
Away from the things that I don't see in this here and now.。
And put me in a place where I trust your bigger picture."。
In that moment, my wife and I had no idea about our adopted daughter, Mia,。
who has been the change of our lives.。
But God knew.。
And He was like, "She is so precious that I'm not going to give you a sperm.。
I'm going to withhold my power.。
Because I've got something for Mia and you。
that you can't even begin to think of right now."。
That reorientation of power is so profound.。
And as the three friends stand before Nebuchadnezzar,。
and they say, "Even if he chooses not to exercise that power,。
that doesn't change anything in our relationship with him.。
We're not going to bow down.。
We're not going to do it.。
We trust fully in his sovereignty and his work in this world.。
Do we want him to act?。
I kind of would like not to die today.。
But even if he chooses not to, it doesn't matter.。
We are never bowing down."。
See, I recognize in my life so often。
that I feel like I connect to one of the characters in this story。
more than any other character.。
And unfortunately, it's not the three friends.。
I recognize that I connect to Nebuchadnezzar.。
That I can find that in my relationship with Jesus so often.。
Am I Nebuchadnezzar?。
In other words, am I in the center。
and I'm asking Jesus to bow down to me?。
I mean, do I want liberation from the things that hurt me?。
Do I want my circumstances to change?。
Absolutely.。
Is it wrong for me to pray for it?。
Absolutely, it's not.。
But I need to somehow change my relationship with him.。
This reality that I'm the one in the middle。
and Jesus is revolving around me, that I'm the king of my empire,。
who thinks that I know everything that's best for me.。
And I'm asking Jesus to bow down to the idol of Andrew.。
When it comes to my relationship with Jesus,。
am I Nebuchadnezzar?。
Or have I been liberated?。
Reorientated back to him.。
The three friends, if I was to summarize what they're trying to say。
and teach us and teach Nebuchadnezzar in this moment.。
Let me read this to you and then we'll draw this to a close.。
"We believe our God has ultimate power。
"and his power is at the center of all things,。
"including his own use of that power.。
"Through that power, he can change.。
"He can easily save us.。
"But if he chooses not to,。
"that changes nothing in our relationship with him.。
"We are not bound by circumstance or response.。
"We are bound by faith, belief in his character and trust.。
"We are not Nebuchadnezzar, amen?。
"We are servants of the living God。
"and may it be done to us per his will."。
This is Jesus in the garden of Gethsemane,。
praying to his God and saying, "Give me one sperm."。
Which for him was, "Help me not to have to go to the cross."。
But then he follows that prayer with this,。
"But your will be done."。
The first reorientation of power,。
"There is a power greater than my circumstance and situation。
"and I will always pray for the intervention of that power."。
The second reorientation is to say,。
"But even if he doesn't exercise that power,。
"I will never bow down to circumstance or situation。
"and I will always, in the seasons of waiting in my life,。
"say this, 'His will be done.'"。
Can we pray?。
Let's pray.。
Would you stand with me?。
And we're going to pray.。
Father, we're so grateful for。
the depth of your love for your people.。
And we're so grateful that you are the ultimate power in this world.。
I mean, what a wonderful thought for us, first of all,。
just to say, "Wow, we get to serve and worship。
"the greatest power in this universe."。
That there is no other name that is higher than your name.。
There is no other title that is higher than your title.。
Lord, that we all stand here,。
even in the midst of some challenges, some trauma,。
some diseases, some diagnoses,。
that we get to stand before you in our seasons of waiting。
and say, "Isn't it awesome that we serve the living God,。
"the one whose all power and all authority is in his hands?"。
What a joy it is to serve Jesus.。
And maybe for some of you,。
that's your first step here as we respond.。
It's just, "Lord, I'm sorry where it's not been a joy,。
"but I want to just say to you in this moment of response,。
"I love you.。
"You are the ultimate power.。
"You are the one that holds this whole universe in your hands."。
My first step is just to say, "Thank you.。
"Thank you that I get to serve you,。
"not serve circumstance or worldly power。
"that you've stepped into this world。
"so I would know a power that is greater。
"than the Nebuchadnezzar's."。
What a joy it is to serve Jesus.。
What a joy it is to serve Jesus.。
For some of you, that's a prophetic cry of your heart。
in this moment, just to say,。
"Lord, what a joy to serve Jesus."。
Some of you can't even imagine the breakthrough。
that's gonna come just for that simple statement,。
"What a joy it is to serve Jesus."。
For some, that's the first step of reorientation of power。
in your season of waiting and in this moment.。
"What a joy it is to serve Jesus."。
And for some of us here, it is not to give up。
on those prayers that you've been praying.。
And I just feel this as I'm praying now,。
that for some of you, you've given up。
on praying the prayer for breakthrough,。
for God to act, whatever the one sperm prayer is for you.。
And the Lord would say, "Don't give up,。
believing that I have the power。
to change your circumstance and your situation."。
And for some of you, you just need to re-engage.。
That's what the Lord is saying.。
Don't give up on that prayer.。
Nothing wrong with those prayers.。
Oh, could you imagine a church filled with people。
that believe in the power of God,。
that don't allow circumstance,。
who do not need to defend themselves to circumstance.。
Come on, church, that's for some of you here.。
You do not need to defend yourself to circumstance.。
You have a God who's more powerful。
than the circumstance that you're facing.。
Do not give up on praying for that power。
to be at work in your life.。
And then for some of us, it's this second reorientation.。
To be bold in our prayers and to say, "Your will be done."。
To say, "Even if for whatever reason,。
you choose not to exercise your power in this moment,。
it does not impact my love of you, my worship of you.。
I will not bow down to any idol."。
Holy Spirit, would you release healing in this room。
in the name of Jesus.。
Would you release healing in the name of Jesus.。
Would your power be mighty, strong for your people.。
If you'd like prayer, maybe you could just open your hands。
and we're just gonna pray for one another.。
I just want us to respond as the Holy Spirit leads.。
Maybe you just pray for the person sitting next to you。
or standing next to you, if their hands are open.。
Let's just begin to care for one another.。
We're just gonna have the worship team play softly, but.。
Holy Spirit, it's just so beautifully with us.。
What a joy it is to serve Jesus.。
Why don't we just begin to pray for one another.。
So if you'd like prayer, just open your hands。
and we're gonna have our prayer team come around,。
but it's not about the prayer team.。
It's about us together, the body of Christ.。
And we can just begin to pray for one another。
and lay your hands on someone.。
Just ask the Holy Spirit to do what the Holy Spirit。
needs to do in their life.。
(gentle music)。
