Amen, amen.。
Thanks, Tim.。
You know, as we come into this, oh, thank you, that's nice.。
As we come into this final week of this first series of the year, I want to bring a word。
to you that's both kind of very personal, but also one that I hope and pray will be。
quite prophetic for us.。
It's personal because the topic we're going to be speaking about together here today is。
one that I've had to wrestle very deeply with.。
It's one that's caused a lot of frustration in my own life, one that's caused me actually。
quite a bit of pain and hardship, but equally is one where I felt the restoration and the。
work of the Holy Spirit, perhaps in some of the most profound ways.。
But I also hope that the message is prophetic because the topic that we are going to talk。
about I truly believe has the power to really liberate us, set us free from many of the。
things that hold us down and kind of wear us down and kind of come upon us and restrict。
us from perhaps moving forward in the ways that God wants us to move forward.。
And as I was praying for you and myself as I was putting this together today, I really。
felt a strong sense that many of us in this room were carrying burdens, were carrying。
anxieties, were carrying frustrations, if anything like me, just stuff that is deep。
down inside and as you're stepping into this new year, you're kind of carrying these things。
with you and those things kind of weigh us down.。
And I really felt like what the Lord wants to do today is to liberate you from the impact。
of them.。
Now, I want you to hear my words really clearly here.。
I did not say necessarily liberate you from them, but liberate you from the impact of。
them because the reality is so often the circumstances and situations that we struggle with in life。
– we pray for those things to change, but they don't always change.。
Quite often we might find ourselves in really tough moments in life.。
We might have those desperate prayers, "God, release me from this really hard situation."。
And for whatever reason, it seems like God doesn't release us from that situation.。
And so it would be wrong for me to stand here and say God is going to release you from whatever。
situation or circumstance that you're perhaps struggling with as you enter into this new。
year.。
But what I can promise you is that God always has a heart not always to change our circumstances,。
but always to change us.。
And although we may remain in our circumstances, God always wants to liberate us from their。
impact.。
And so that's what I want to kind of share a little bit about with you today.。
And so if you're coming into this service, coming into this year, struggling with some。
of those burdens, anxieties and things there, I hope that what we look at over the next。
30 minutes will be liberating for you.。
Now, to frame this, I want to tell you a little bit about what happened for me on my sabbatical。
last year.。
So here at The Vine, we have a sabbatical policy for all of our staff.。
And when our staff work for a complete seven years of full-time work here, on the completion。
of their seventh year, they're eligible for sabbatical and everybody gets it.。
And so I got my first sabbatical back in 2019.。
And then our policy is that every five years after your first one, you get it again.。
So I had it last year.。
I had four months off from work.。
And I have to tell you, I was desperately in need of the break.。
If you can imagine what's happened in Hong Kong since 2019, all the way through to 2024,。
protests, social movement, everything that was involved with that, the NSL getting that。
pass and all the impact that that had in our city.。
Then COVID came and you can imagine what it was like to lead a relatively large church。
here in Hong Kong through all of those pretty big crises that have taken place over the。
last five years.。
So the fact that I was exhausted spiritually, physically, desperately in need of a break,。
wanting to get away, was the reality of just the burden and the things that I had held。
on behalf of all of the community that I was trying to serve and the weight of that and。
just needing some space to better deal with some of that stuff.。
And I know that when I'm kind of dealing with burdens and anxieties, the thing that manifests。
most of my life is insecurity.。
And I was feeling myself more insecure around my leadership, more insecure around being。
a pastor, more insecure about being a husband to my wife, a father to my daughter Mia, and。
I was wrestling with all of those insecurities as well.。
That doesn't make me a healthy leader.。
So I knew that I needed to have some sort of break to connect with the Holy Spirit on。
those things.。
The other thing that was going on is that I realized that in just a few months' time。
I was going to turn 50 years old.。
Oh my goodness.。
I suddenly realized that I was old and that I was going to die soon.。
And I was, you're like, "50's nothing."。
50 felt like a lot for me, okay?。
And I was struggling with turning 50.。
I was like, "Oh my gosh, I'm so old."。
And like the average age of people across both the Vine Yuen Long and the Vine Wan Chai,。
do you know what the average age of the people who come to the Vine is?。
29 years old.。
And so I was wrestling, who's older than 29 here?。
No, don't do that.。
That's fine.。
But I was wrestling with this anxiety of like, "Oh my gosh, maybe I'm past my use-by date.。
Maybe I'm not relevant for the young people anymore.。
Maybe I'm trying to be cool for the young people, but they don't think I'm cool anymore."。
And all of this was going on in my mind.。
Insecurities, needing a break, feeling 50 and old.。
So I went on the sabbatical, first day of sabbatical, and I took out my journal, which。
also happens to be my phone.。
I took out my phone, and in my phone on the notes app, I wrote down a bunch of questions。
that I was going to pray about and bring to God.。
I want to read you some of these things from my journal.。
So the first question was this, "How much longer do you want me to be a pastor?"。
So I was wrestling with the idea of maybe I shouldn't be doing this for that much longer.。
"I'm 50 years old.。
I'm old.。
Maybe it's time for me to hand over to the next generation."。
So one of my other questions was this, "How much longer should I lead the Vine for?。
Maybe there's some young person that should take on the reins of leadership.。
Maybe that's the right thing."。
I was asking questions like this, "When and how should I hand over the church to the next。
generation?。
Those incredible young people that God has blessed me with."。
Now that raised a really challenging further question, which was this one.。
Notice this, "What the heck will I do for my living if you take the church away from。
me?"。
That was an honest question, because I was like, "This is how I make my living.。
I don't do it for the money.。
I just want you to hear me, okay?。
I don't do it for the money.。
I do it because I love people, and I love the job I have, and I love being a pastor。
and all that."。
But I'm like, "If God, you call me out from being a pastor, how can I provide for myself?。
How the heck, excuse my language, but will I do for a living if I'm no longer doing this?"。
And then the final question, the most important one that I was wrestling with, "Why am I still。
so filled with insecurity and self-doubt?"。
Some of those things that were really working on me.。
And then there was one more, one that I really was wrestling with.。
It was this one, "Do aliens really exist?"。
I needed the Holy Spirit to speak to me on that topic.。
Okay, that one was not true.。
But the rest of them were in my journal, okay?。
And I was wrestling with these questions, and I was bringing them into my sabbatical.。
And about a month into my sabbatical, God came, and I'd been praying and praying and。
praying on these sort of things, and I heard nothing at all.。
And God came, and He's like, "Andrew, those things are not on my heart for you at all.。
You want to know what's on my heart for you, Andrew?"。
And I was like, "Yes, I do."。
He's like, "It's just three things, your relationship with me, your relationship with yourself,。
and your relationship with your wife.。
Those are the only three things that actually I really care about for you in this time.。
And your sabbatical is going to be about strengthening your relationship with me, about believing。
and knowing and understanding who you are in a greater level than you've ever done before.。
And most importantly, you're going to restore and renew the love and the relationship that。
you have with your wife.。
Those three things are all that matters."。
I wonder if you've ever had a situation in your own personal prayer life where you've。
sat in the tension between all the things that you want to pray about and the things。
that actually God wants to talk to you about.。
Have you ever been in a situation where it feels like you're praying and you're praying。
and you've got some important things that are sitting on your heart, but it doesn't。
seem like God is responding to that.。
It doesn't seem like God is moving or answering anything that perhaps you have.。
And that's kind of a frustrating place to be, isn't it?。
And sometimes as Christians, I think when it feels like God is not answering the things。
that we desperately want Him to answer, we can feel like He's upset at us.。
He's angry at us.。
We can feel like He's distant from us.。
And we kind of go through the list of all the problems that might be there between us。
or between Him, because it doesn't seem like He's responding in the way that we want Him。
to respond.。
Anyone else ever felt that way?。
Or is it just me?。
Okay, we all feel that way, don't we?。
You see, I think there's a tension at times between the thing that are on our heart to。
pray about and the things that are actually on God's heart to speak to us about, that。
He wants us to know about.。
There's a tension sometimes, because often I think those two things are different.。
Everything that I want God to reveal to me and answer to me and actually the things that。
are on His heart, just your relationship with me, your relationship with yourself and your。
relationship with your wife.。
If you've ever felt this tension, you're actually in really good company, because here's the。
crazy thing.。
Jesus, the Son of God, also felt that tension.。
The Son of the living God in His prayer life also felt that tension.。
The tension between having things on His heart that He wanted, that He desired, that He was。
looking for, and the reality that God at times had different things that God was going to。
do.。
So if Jesus has struggled with this at times, that should be great comfort for all of us。
as well in the tension that we feel in the reality of our prayer lives.。
And perhaps if we could take a look at how Jesus navigates this tension, it might help。
us to navigate it too.。
And perhaps the breakthrough of all of those anxieties and concerns and burdens and worries。
that I mentioned at the start could be liberated as we see what Jesus does in walking this。
beautiful way of praying and yet submitting.。
And so I want to show you this.。
This is in one of the most famous moments of Jesus' life.。
It's right at the end of His life.。
It's about a week before He goes to the cross.。
And He's just shared in the meal with His disciples in the upper room.。
He's in Jerusalem.。
He's had this crazy meal with them where He's taken the wine and the bread and He's created。
this idea of communion that the church would continue from that point on.。
He's taken the water and the towel and He's washed His servants' feet and He's blessed。
them.。
They then gone out to the Garden of Gethsemane, otherwise known as the Mount of Olives, which。
sits up on the hill in Jerusalem, still there today.。
And He goes there with His disciples and this is what happens.。
Let me read this to you.。
Jesus went out as usual to the Mount of Olives and His disciples followed Him.。
On reaching the place, He said to them, "Pray that you will not fall into temptation."。
He withdrew about a stone's throw.。
Beyond them knelt down and prayed, "Father, if you are willing, take this cup from me.。
Yet not my will, but your will be done."。
An angel from heaven appeared to Him and strengthened Him.。
And being in anguish, He prayed more earnestly and His sweat was like drops of blood falling。
to the ground.。
When He rose from prayer, He went back to the disciples and He found them asleep, typical。
disciples, exhausted from sorrow.。
"Why are you sleeping?"。
He asked them.。
"Get up and pray so that you will not fall into temptation."。
It's a really significant moment in Jesus' life here.。
Right after this, He's about to get betrayed by one of His very own disciples.。
A kiss brings betrayal as the army comes to arrest Him.。
He then goes to trial.。
On that trial, He's accused of things that He did not do.。
Out of that trial, He's sentenced to death on a Roman cross, the most painful thing that。
will ever happen.。
And He's standing or He's kneeling in this moment and He's praying and He's praying honestly。
and fervently that God would change His situation.。
Now I want you to really understand the history and the context of this.。
A few years ago, I had the privilege of actually traveling to Jerusalem and I traveled to Jerusalem。
with a film crew and we actually made a film series around the life of Jesus.。
And as part of that series, we went up to the Mount of Olives to where this very place。
is that Jesus would have knelt down in this moment.。
And I reflected a little bit in that place on what I think is happening here in this。
prayer.。
So I want to show you just a short extract from that film.。
Let's have a look.。
The Mount of Olives is a mountain ridge east of and adjacent to Jerusalem's Old City, named。
for the olive groves that cover its slopes.。
For 3,000 years, it has been used primarily as a cemetery and currently holds around 150,000。
graves, making this soil soaked in the history of the people of this land.。
It is here that Jesus added his own input into that history.。
This is the very mountain ridge that he walked over as he entered into Jerusalem on the praises。
of his people.。
He would have taught his disciples amongst the trees here.。
Under their shade, he would have rested and prayed.。
But most importantly of all, this is the place where a betrayer's kiss would kickstart the。
events that would ultimately lead to his death on a cross.。
Luke's narrative of the death of Jesus is designed to ask the one central question that。
his whole gospel has been chipping away at.。
Who do you think Jesus is?。
Mirroring the creation story itself, it begins in a garden, this garden.。
It's here that the disciples with Jesus have retreated after they finished the Passover。
meal in the upper room.。
And they've come here to sit around these trees and pray.。
And as Jesus is praying, he's completely overcome with what is ahead of him.。
He understands he's about to be arrested.。
He knows he's going to trial.。
He knows that he's going to take the weight of the sin of the world upon his shoulders.。
And in the anguish of the moment, he offers one of the most powerful and most humble prayers。
that we have in all of scripture.。
He says before his father, "Father, if you can, take this cup from me.。
But not my will, but your will be done."。
Take this cup, your will be done.。
Fear and faith side by side.。
These two themes will sit over the rest of the narrative of Jesus's death.。
And Luke is doing a beautiful play on imagery here.。
Because like Adam and Eve in their garden, Jesus faces huge temptation and anguish in。
his garden.。
But unlike Adam and Eve, Jesus overcomes those temptations through obedient submission to。
his father.。
And this concept of submission speaks to the very roots of what it is to be a follower。
of Jesus.。
And submission then becomes the key to what discipleship is all about.。
In fact, it becomes the central idea of the cross and the resurrection.。
And to understand that more, I need to take you to another hill in Jerusalem.。
Well I'm not going to take you to another hill in Jerusalem right now.。
But I hope that just gives you some of the imagery of where Jesus is having this moment。
with his disciples.。
It was exactly in that place that I was just sitting under one of those olive trees in。
the film.。
And I want you to get a sense of what Jesus does here.。
At the beginning of his prayer, he prays this.。
He says, "Father, if you are willing, take this cup from me."。
Well, of course, what he's talking about there is all the events that are about to happen.。
The arrest, the trial, the execution, the painful execution on Roman cross, the reality。
that he needs to go to the cross to pay the price for our sin and the weight of that on。
his shoulders.。
And I love what he does here.。
This is one of the most beautiful moments of Jesus' humanity that we have in all of。
Scripture.。
He actually comes to his father and he says, "Father."。
And there's intimacy in his expression of using that word.。
He's saying, "Father, we know each other so well.。
I'm your son.。
You are literally my father.。
If there's any other way, if there's any way that you can take this reality of the burden。
and the anxiety and the fear that I'm feeling for having to go to the cross and take the。
whole world's sin on my shoulder, if there's any other way, I ask you, I plead you, I'm。
asking you to change the situation."。
When he says, "Take this cup from me," in the Old Testament, the cup always represented。
the wrath of God.。
This idea of God's judgment for the sin of the world.。
So what he's saying is, "Take your wrath from me."。
Like I don't want to sit under the reality of having to take the whole world's sin on。
my shoulders.。
If there's any way for us to change that, would you please change it?。
And what I love about this part of the prayer is that Jesus is demonstrating to us that。
there is always space to express your heart and your emotions to him.。
You see, there's always place for us to come to God and say, "This isn't right.。
This is hard.。
This is not working for me.。
This is difficult.。
I want something different.。
I want to change in my circumstance.。
I want everything to..."。
See, the beautiful thing about the relationship that we have with our Father is that he creates。
space for us to lament.。
He creates space for us to ask for the impossible.。
He creates space for us that when the world seems to be really hard and our circumstances。
seem to be really tough, he makes space for us to ask him to step in and do the impossible.。
I love that Jesus here is asking his Father to do something for him, which seems really。
simple.。
But think about this for a second, because if Jesus, as the Son of God, understands what。
has to happen, why is he doing this?。
Because I think it's this beautiful moment of human expression of the pain and the anguish。
that he's wrestling with, but he's demonstrating that it's always okay to bring your needs。
to your Father.。
Even if your Father doesn't do those needs, it's still right and healthy for you to bring。
your needs to him.。
He cries out in anguish.。
He cries out and he asks.。
Notice what he asks for.。
He says, "If you can take this cup from me..."。
Sorry, he doesn't say that.。
Let me say it properly.。
He's saying, "If you're willing, take this cup from me."。
In other words, even in Jesus's great fear and his great anxiety, he still has faith.。
I know that in the times of my life when things are not going well and I've got anxiety and。
fear, I feel my faith levels often drop down.。
Maybe yours do too.。
But notice, in this great moment of Jesus's anguish, he's so much in anguish that he sweats。
blood.。
So this is a real thing that he's going through with real emotions he's struggling with.。
Even in there, he says, "You could change my circumstance.。
I believe that you could.。
I believe that you could move in power and change this circumstance."。
He says, "Take this cup from me because if you're willing, it's possible.。
You could speak to the mountain and if you want the mountain to move, the mountain will。
move."。
So even though he's under great pain, he's expressing great faith.。
Do you see that?。
And there's something about that space that is created in all of us when we're facing。
hard times and we pray those prayers of God stepping in, there is a place for us to not。
only express the pain but also express the faith.。
"Lord, I believe that you can do this."。
A few years ago, I had my own Garden of Gethsemane moments.。
Maybe you've had some of yours over the years as well.。
In mine, at the age of 30, my wife and I had decided that the Lord was calling us into。
full-time ministry in different ways for me to become a pastor, for her to go into counseling。
and become a therapist.。
And so we quit our jobs here in Hong Kong.。
I was in the finance world.。
Chris was in the childcare world.。
And we quit our jobs and we moved to New Zealand together, which is where Chris is from.。
We went to seminary, this place called Laidlaw College in Auckland, New Zealand.。
And as we went there, we felt the Lord say very specifically to us, "It's time to start。
for a family," which is something that we had had on our hearts for many years.。
We got married at the age of 23 and 22.。
We were now 30.。
We had waited a while, but this was the time to start our family.。
And I'm going to cut a very long story short, but we started to try for our family.。
We quickly discovered that we weren't able to get pregnant.。
We did a whole bunch of tests and procedures.。
It was discovered that I'm actually infertile.。
And I have this condition called azuspermia.。
Now, azuspermia literally means that I have no spermia at all, no sperm.。
We're friends here, so I'm just going to get very honest with you.。
So I have azuspermia, which means that I have no sperm at all.。
Now, a man is determined to be infertile if he has less than 40 million sperm in an ejaculation.。
Less than 40 million and you're determined to be infertile medically.。
I have none whatsoever.。
And so we discovered this.。
Now, here was the tension in my life.。
Number one, I felt like God had said to Chris and I, "Now's the time to start a family."。
I had always carried in my heart a desire to want to father children.。
Chris and I had spoken for years about, "Oh, I hope they have your hair and oh, your nose."。
And you know, all that talk that you have about biological children happening.。
And so we had prayed about it.。
I had felt God had spoken to me about it.。
And now I discovered that God had created me in a way that I could never do it myself.。
Are you with me?。
This was a Garden of Gethsemane moment for me because I was upset at God for what he。
had done.。
I was upset that he had asked me or given me a heart for children and then made me in。
such a way that I could never do it.。
I was feeling shame because I'd always wanted to give Chris the gift of having a child.。
So I was wrestling with shame.。
And so I came to God in the desperation of that moment.。
And here was my prayer.。
And this will sound funny, but this was absolutely my prayer.。
My prayer was this, "Father, give me one sperm.。
I don't need 200 million sperm like every other man in the world.。
I just need one sperm, one that can do the job.。
That's all I'm asking for.。
I need one sperm."。
And I actually got all of my friends and mentors to fast and pray.。
I remember reaching out to Nigel and Jill.。
Nigel at the time would visit Auckland for business and we'd connect together.。
I remember reaching out to them and other people in our church community at the time。
and say, "Would you fast with us?。
Fast and pray because we're believing for a miracle."。
See, I had the anguish and the shame.。
I was carrying the anxiety of what was happening.。
But this was my, "Lord, if you're willing, take the cup from me" moment.。
This was me saying, "Lord, if you're willing, one sperm."。
I'm not trying to be greedy here.。
I'm just asking for one that swims really well and does the job that it's required to。
do.。
That's all I'm asking.。
But this is what I'm asking for and I'm expressing.。
You've created the space for me to express this desire to you.。
Lord, give me one sperm.。
Some of you in this room, you're perhaps in a Garden of Gethsemane moment in whatever。
is going on in your life right now and that resonates with you.。
It's weird because sometimes as Christians, when we get into these kind of situations,。
we actually reduce our prayer life rather than increase it.。
We actually hold back from praying some of those bold prayers, some of those prayers。
for God to step in and do something miraculous, knowing that you cannot change your situation。
and you're asking God.。
Sometimes weirdly, we step back from that.。
Maybe we're fearful that God may not reply.。
Maybe we're worried that he's not listening to us.。
Maybe we judge ourselves and we think that we're not worthy to receive a miracle that。
would be needed.。
And so as Christians, sometimes we can hold back from praying the desperate prayers for。
God to step in and do what only he can do.。
Are you with me?。
And what's beautiful about Jesus here is that he's having a real moment of anguish himself,。
but he does not hold back from going to his father and saying, "I don't know what you。
want to do here, but if you are able to do this, this is what I'm asking for and I have。
the faith that you can do it."。
And I feel like for some of you, as we end this series, that's what God's looking for。
you.。
He's looking for the faith in you to believe that he can actually come and do the things。
that you're longing for him to do.。
Some of you have been shy and it's time for you to move into a place of greater boldness.。
But I want you to see also then what Jesus does next, because it's really quite beautiful。
how he marries this together.。
He's just plead out in faith that God would change his circumstance, but then he says。
straight away, "Yet not my will, but yours be done."。
It's very famous, isn't it?。
But I want you to sit in the process that Jesus is demonstrating for us here.。
He goes, "Yet not my will, but yours be done."。
Which doesn't contradict the first part of this prayer and I want you to see this.。
See it was absolutely right for Jesus to say, "Take this cup from me."。
But notice, if all he ever did was say, "Take the cup, take the cup, take the cup," and。
not move to the second part of the prayer, here's what might happen for Jesus.。
He might start to not like his father anymore.。
He might start to wrestle with the reality of, "Well, why isn't God replying to me?。
Why doesn't God do what I ask?。
Why does God feel so distant?"。
And Jesus understands that he's sitting in a tension where if all he does is say, "Give。
me, give me, give me," he's basically praying me-centric prayers all the time.。
And Jesus understands that there's nothing wrong with the expression of what we want。
God to do in our lives, but if that's all we're doing, then essentially we're just me-centric。
in our prayers.。
You follow that?。
So he marries it with this second part where he says, "Yet not my will, your will be done."。
That's basically Jesus saying, "I have some me-centered things that I believe you could。
do, but ultimately I want a God-centric world.。
I want ultimately God to be the one who will make the decision.。
I want ultimately God's will to come.。
Your will be done."。
Which is a really interesting phrase because this is not the first time that Jesus has。
said this phrase.。
To understand what Jesus is saying in the second half of the prayer here, you actually。
have to rewind the story about four months prior to this moment.。
Four months prior to this moment, the disciples come to Jesus and they say, "Rabbi, teach。
us how to pray because we've noticed that your prayers are different from what we see。
in the temple.。
We notice that your prayers are free prayers."。
You see, prayers in the first century in Judaism at that time were all written prayers.。
And he noticed that Jesus didn't pray written prayers.。
He didn't pray the Psalms like the other Jewish people were in the day.。
No, this Jesus, this rabbi, had the courage and boldness to pray directly to the Father.。
And so they come to him and say, "Teach us how to pray like that."。
And Jesus teaches them what we've come to call the Lord's Prayer.。
Everybody knows the Lord's Prayer.。
Whether they're Christian or not, people kind of know the Lord's Prayer.。
But you have to also understand that the Lord's Prayer has a context as well.。
The Lord's Prayer's context is the Exodus of the Old Testament.。
We don't have time to look at this today, but it's a fascinating Bible study to do at。
some point.。
But the whole of the Lord's Prayer is connected to the story of the Exodus of the Old Testament.。
You know when it says, "Give us today our daily bread?"。
Manna, right?。
So the whole thing, the language, the way it's written, the whole thing connects back。
to the most profound moment of God's deliverance and power in the Old Testament for the Jewish。
people.。
What Jesus is saying in the Lord's Prayer is, "Pray to the God of the Exodus.。
Know that your God is a liberating God, that your God has the power to change circumstances。
and scenarios.。
Know that He's ultimately in control of everything in the universe.。
If you're going to pray at all, you're praying to the God of the Exodus, the one who steps。
into the slavery of this world and liberates His people from it."。
And so I want to just show you what He prays in Matthew 6 when He does the Lord's Prayer.。
Matthew 6, verses 9 and 10.。
"Do not belay them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask Him."。
Notice that, your Father knows what you need before you ask Him.。
So then this is how you should pray.。
"Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name.。
Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven."。
When Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane is facing His great moment of anguish, sweating。
blood, He's actually leaning back on the Lord's Prayer, the thing He taught His disciples.。
"Your kingdom come, your will be done."。
In other words, the heart of prayer for the Christian is not me-centric, it has to be。
God-centric.。
It has to be this prayer that's asking for God to come and do what only God can do.。
Asking God to come and bring His kingdom on earth.。
When we pray for God's kingdom to come, we're basically prophetically saying that my kingdom。
is not what I want.。
Notice this, church.。
Follow the logic here.。
See, when we take the Lord's Prayer seriously and we say, "Your kingdom come, your will。
be done," what we're saying is not, "I don't have emotions and feelings."。
No, we have emotions and feelings that we can express to God.。
But in that prayer, we're saying, "Ultimately, what we want in this world is God's reign,。
His power, His work, His life."。
The prayer of the Lord's Prayer is a release from the brokenness of our own will, and it's。
a placing of ourselves into the power of God's will.。
It's us saying, "I recognize that in my sin and my brokenness, my will, my desires are。
not always the ones that God wants.。
And while it's good for me to express what's on my heart before Him, ultimately, if I don't。
then submit myself in trust and love to Him, I'm just going to be a bull of frustration。
rather than a person of faith, working on behalf of the kingdom in the here and now.。
I need to move at some point from the "take this cup from me" to the "but your will be。
done."。
Are you following?。
And Jesus, what He's doing in the Garden of Gethsemane is He's processing this.。
He's showing us the process that if we don't let go, we're going to end up frustrated and。
weighed down.。
But if we can move from an expression to a place of trust, then God can actually begin。
to do what only God can do.。
About three months into me praying, "God, give me one sperm," and asking many people。
to fast and pray, God comes to me about three months in and He speaks to me very clearly.。
And it was one of those moments where you know when God steps in and says something。
and it's not what you thought you were going to hear, it's not what you were hoping to。
hear, but you know it's Him as soon as He says it.。
I want to read you what I wrote in my journal that time.。
"Andrew, let me teach you something about prayer.。
Your prayer should not be, 'God, give me one sperm.'。
Your prayer should be, 'God, make me into a man who's content whether I have children。
or not.'"。
That was about as far away from what I was feeling or thinking as possible.。
But I want you to hear God's heart here.。
He wasn't saying I wasn't going to have children.。
He was saying, "Andrew, I don't want you so frustrated over here with this me-centric。
give me, give me, give me."。
But actually, here's what I want to do.。
I want to come and I want to form and shape you into a person who's not dependent on whether。
your happiness and your joy is based on some circumstance in your life.。
I want you to be so liberated from the realities of tough and hard circumstances in life that。
you're able to be content whether you are still without children or whether I give you。
children, whether that happens or not, that's in my hands.。
But here's what I want for you.。
I want to make you into a person who's not dependent on whether your prayers get answered。
in the ways that you want them to be answered.。
Because I tell you what, you're going to pray much more powerfully.。
You're going to lead much more powerfully.。
You're going to speak much more powerfully if you're content with your will be done in。
your life.。
And so this call on me when I was at Bible school was to realize that although I wanted。
kids and I wanted God to heal me and I wanted the miracle and I didn't stop praying the。
miracle, I kept praying the miracle but I added something on after the miracle prayer.。
I kept praying God give me one sperm but then I said but Lord make me into a person who's。
content whether you move in a miracle or not.。
Because ultimately I'm here to serve you.。
What Jesus is doing in the Garden of Gethsemane is exactly the same thing.。
He's showing us that it's right to have the take the cup from me prayers but we are to。
marry those with the your will be done prayers.。
And when you bring the two of those together in prayer, that's a bold prayer.。
That's a courageous prayer.。
That's a prayer that actually changes things in my mind.。
And like I said at the beginning of the sermon, not necessarily changes our circumstance or。
situation, newsflash, I never fathered my own biological children to this day.。
Now if God gave me the miracle, I would probably have a problem with it.。
Back those days I wanted the miracle.。
Now probably less so as I turn 50.。
But we have an amazing 14 year old girl Mia who we adopted and we've got a family and。
it's amazing.。
It's not how I thought it was going to happen.。
God has provided not in the miracle per se that I was specifically asking for but in。
the realities of him knowing what was on my heart and what was on his heart.。
Your will be done is always going to bring your life into greater flourishing than this。
is what I demand.。
Are you following this?。
And when we kind of walk in this space, we get this glorious idea that we are to be called。
from a give me type prayer life to a make me type prayer life.。
And it's fascinating because you can do a study in scripture and you can see a lot of。
people in scripture move in this direction from give me to make me.。
One of the most profound examples is the parable of the prodigal son.。
That's a very famous parable for all of us.。
What happens at the beginning of the parable of the prodigal son?。
The son, the young son comes to his father and says, "Give me my inheritance now."。
It's a me-centric prayer that he had.。
Give me my inheritance now.。
But out of the place of going give me, he then goes through all the things he goes through.。
He goes through all the challenges of his life.。
He goes through all the things that turns his world upside down.。
Off the back of that, he then comes back to his father and notice what his prayer is when。
he meets his father for that first time after going away and squandering all his money.。
He comes back and he says, "Make me like one of your hired servants."。
In other words, I would rather serve in your household than be rebellious outside of it.。
He goes from a give me to a make me heart.。
And Jesus, as he's sweating blood on the Mount of Olives, he's wrestling with this and he。
shows us the beauty of going from a give me, make me, "Lord, take this cup, but your will。
be done."。
"Make me into a man," I think he's praying, "that is going to be able to walk to the cross.。
And although it's going to be hard, and although it's going to be painful, and although I'm。
going to feel all those emotions, but I'm going to be able to go there in the confidence。
of a person who's been set free because I'm no longer in the temptation of trying to make。
my future what I think is best.。
But I've released myself into the contentment of a future based in you."。
You see, this is why Jesus, it's quite interesting in this passage, twice he says to the disciples,。
he says, "Pray that you will not fall into temptation."。
What is Jesus saying there when he says to them, "Pray so that you don't fall into temptation."。
Here's what I think he's saying, "The temptation to try to control everything ourselves.。
The temptation to try to stay on that one side and think we know what's best.。
The temptation to only ever pray those give me kind of prayers."。
Jesus says, "Be careful that you don't fall into that temptation."。
And then he goes away and he admits that he is also struggling under that temptation with。
his God.。
"Take this cup from me," but then he moves beyond it, "Your will be done."。
And then he goes back to his disciples and says again, "Be careful you don't fall under。
that temptation."。
And here's what I sense is on God's heart as we finish this series at the beginning。
of the year.。
He's saying to you, "Don't fall under that temptation."。
It's absolutely right.。
Don't hear me wrong.。
I'm not saying stop those prayers.。
Remember, Jesus prayed the prayers, "Take this cup from me."。
There's nothing wrong with expressing our heart and demanding God and believing for。
a miracle.。
Those prayers should be prayed for us.。
But if that's all we're doing, we've missed the point.。
We pray the prayers and then we come to him and say, "But ultimately it's your will.。
In my brokenness, this is what I see.。
This is what I want.。
But God, I'm submitting 100% of my heart to you."。
That breaks control.。
That breaks anxiety.。
That breaks concern.。
That breaks burden.。
Because even though if our circumstances don't change, something has changed in us.。
Something has liberated us.。
And it may still be really hard, but suddenly the anxiety, the pain, the frustration has。
gone and what has been in its place now is a liberated love.。
A peace that can only come from the hand of God.。
A place of saying, "Your will be done.。
And if this continues, then I trust."。
What Jesus does here is he basically shows us that we let go of control through an embrace。
of trust.。
That's what the "Your will be done" prayer is all about.。
And so for you at the start of this year, that's the journey I think is here in this。
moment for you.。
As we finish a series on being bold in prayer, this is the call that I think Jesus models。
for us.。
The space to ask and to plead and to believe that God can change the circumstance, but。
the desire that even if he doesn't do that, you will still serve him, love him, look to。
him, be faithful to him and trust that he has it all in his hands.。
Like the three that went into the fire, I think God's going to deliver us from this。
fire.。
But even if he doesn't, we're not bowing down to the God you want us to bow down to.。
Your will be done.。
So if you're carrying frustrations, if you're carrying anxieties, if you're starting this。
year with some pretty big prayers and you found yourself getting drained because you're。
doing all the "give me" prayers, but it doesn't seem like God is answering, maybe the invitation。
here is to shift, to hold in your heart those prayers, but to add the "make me" bit.。
Make me into a person that can stand up to this trial.。
Make me into the person who's going to serve your will no matter what you do.。
I want that too.。
And I want to pray for that for you in this moment.。
So I wonder whether we could just close our eyes and as we close our eyes, we invite the。
Holy Spirit just to come.。
Lord, we thank you that your presence has been here throughout this service so beautifully,。
so tenderly.。
And Lord, I know that there are many people here in this room that, Lord, that their prayer。
life has perhaps been in this place of frustration.。
Perhaps there's something big that's happening and they're desperately in need of your word,。
your voice, your help.。
Just like Jesus who says, "Take this cup from me," they're crying out and asking you, God,。
to do the impossible.。
Father, we want to pray for anyone in this room right now where that's their case.。
We want to ask, Lord, that you would come alongside of them now.。
That you would come alongside of them now by your grace and your beauty and you would。
meet them just in the anguish, the sweating of blood of their garden of Gethsemane, whatever。
that might be.。
And Father, as you meet them there, I want to pray that the whisper of your love and。
your grace and your shalom, your peace, your liberation would come.。
Lord, we pray to the God of the Exodus in this moment, the one who has the power to。
liberate and to set free.。
And Father, we pray that for each person here that they would come under now in this moment,。
the God of the Exodus.。
And Father, I believe that you want to take some people here in this room from a give。
me to make me moment.。
I believe that as they walk out of here in a few moments time, they're going to walk。
out of here different to how they came in, liberated from the burden, the anxiety.。
And Lord, you may or may not change the circumstance, but in this moment, I believe you want to。
change them.。
So if this has been helpful to you in some way here this morning, here's what I'd love。
for us to do is just very calmly and easily just to open your hands where you're sat.。
You know, here at the Vine, we do this posture a lot when we want to respond to what it is。
that the Holy Spirit is ministering to us.。
By opening our hands, it's just a simple way of us saying, "Holy Spirit, would you come?。
Father, this is for me.。
Lord, I want to receive in this moment."。
And this won't be per se for everybody, but there'll be some people here where you're。
knowing this is a word for me in season right at the start of the year.。
And I need to go from a give me to a make me.。
I want to be liberated.。
I want to feel thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.。
Lord, give me the trust.。
Give me the faith.。
And that's you just want to encourage you just to open your hands as our eyes are closed.。
And I want to just invite the Holy Spirit to come and minister to every person whose。
hands are open.。
Thank you, Lord, that you love them so much.。
And so whilst you're sat there with your hands open, if that's you, in a moment, I want to。
encourage the people around you whose hands are not open, and they're going to start to。
pray for you.。
You know, there's power like we did with June earlier with the laying on of hands and the。
stretching out of hands.。
And I believe that many of you in this room will want to be prayed for a minister to now.。
And so as well as the people standing around you, if there are pastors, leaders here, they。
can also go and pray for people as well.。
Maybe we can just begin to do that.。
So if you want to receive prayer, perhaps for anything that the Holy Spirit has been。
speaking to you about, just open your hands.。
And then if your hands are not open, then in a moment you can look around you and maybe。
see if there's somebody around you that's got their hands open and you can begin to。
pray for them and just begin to invite the Holy Spirit to minister to them, to strengthen。
them, to meet them in their place of anguish or challenge and to bring a liberation through。
God's grace.。
So let's do that now.。
We're going to just take some time to do this in our service.。
So hands open if you'd like prayer.。
Otherwise, please be thinking about who you can be praying for in this moment.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
