You know, we're in our final week of public faith, what it means to live the gospel in。
the world around us.。
And, you know, as a group of pastors, as we were praying a number of months ago for this。
series and we were asking, "What are the topics that's on the Lord's heart?"。
This one came up that we're speaking about today, and we're like, "We can't do a series。
on how we live the gospel publicly if we don't talk about the reality of our resources in。
our lives and the way in which we operate with the resources that God has given us."。
The reality is that one of the most public ways that you will reveal the gospel to the。
world around you is how you steward the resources that are in your life.。
So whether that's your time, whether that's your energy, whether that's your finances,。
whether that's your talents or your gifts, what you do with what you've been given reveals。
to the world the inner values and commitments that you hold.。
It's always been said, right, that if you want to find out what's important to someone,。
just do an audit of what they spend their time and their money on.。
That'll show you pretty quickly what is in the heart and the life of someone.。
But I think for us Christians, this area of our resources and what we do with them is。
not just an audit of kind of the values within us, it's actually a question of discipleship.。
It's actually an invitation into discipleship.。
Because what we do with the resources that we have over a period of time as Christians。
will become the barometer of our relationship with Jesus.。
And over time, it will show the people within our community, the people outside of that。
community, the level of submission, the level of honor, the level of obedience that we have。
to the one that we seek to proclaim.。
The stewardship of your resources is perhaps the greatest way you reveal to the world around。
you the love that you have for a God who has saved, redeemed, and restored you.。
There are so many passages in Scripture that speak about this idea of stewarding the resources。
God has given us.。
But I want to go to one today that is from the apostle Peter.。
And he's writing to the church.。
This is his first letter.。
And he's writing to his church in a time of persecution, a time when the church is struggling。
and he writes to them and says, "You've got to understand that you've been saved not just。
for your little gatherings that you have in your house churches, but you've been saved。
to bring the message of Christ, the hope of Jesus, into the world around you."。
And he has this list of ways in which we do that.。
And embedded in the middle of it is just this one verse where he speaks specifically about。
the resources in our lives.。
Let me read this to you from 1 Peter 4, starting in verse 10.。
He says, "Each one of you should use whatever gift that you have received to serve others,。
being faithful stewards of God's grace in its various form."。
I love what Peter does here, a very simple sentence, a very simple verse.。
But he starts by saying this, "Each one of you should use whatever gift that you have。
received to serve others."。
So his starting point is every single one of us has received a gift.。
He doesn't say, "Those of you that think you're gifted."。
He doesn't say, "Those of you that are wealthy and know that you have a lot of resource."。
He says, "Each one of you, regardless of whether you think you have an abundance or not, should。
use what it is that God has given you for His glory, to serve the people around you."。
Which is deeply challenging because I think as Christians, when we think about the resources。
in our lives, we have two issues.。
We first of all think either we have a lot, and that can lead us into a place of pride,。
or we look at the neighbor next to us and we compare ourselves and we find jealousy。
in us because we think we don't have as much as them.。
So when we begin to think about resources in our lives, often our starting point is。
either pride or it's jealousy.。
It's either I've got what I need or it's kind of comparative or comparison to the one next。
to me.。
And Peter starts this topic by cutting through all of that, and he's like, "It's not about。
how much you have, it's about what you do with what you have been given.。
And each one of you has been given something.。
And each one of you should administer whatever it is that you've been given to serve the。
people around you."。
Notice the language he uses in this verse to highlight this.。
He says gift.。
He uses the word received.。
Later on in the verse, he says God's grace.。
These words are words specifically that Peter is using to help you to understand that there。
is a significant mindset shift that you need when you become a Christian when it comes。
to the resources in your life.。
He says you've got to understand that this is a gift, that you have received it, and。
you've received it by God's grace.。
So fundamentally what Peter is teaching here to the church is that you've got to understand。
that God is the owner of all things.。
They're all his.。
He is sovereign.。
He's powerful.。
He has control of everything in this world, and everything you have is a gift.。
You haven't earned it.。
It's not like he's looked down on the vine today and gone, "Oh, Pastor Andrew, he's in。
a good place right now.。
I'm going to give him a little bit more."。
This is a gift received by God's grace because he is the owner of all things, and that is。
a deeply important thing for us to be aware of.。
Let me say it in reverse.。
We are not owners.。
Come on, church.。
We are not owners, which is weird because before we come to Christ, that's exactly the。
mindset that we have.。
Before we have this relationship with Jesus, our mindset is always going to be, "I work。
hard.。
I gain.。
I earn.。
I control.。
It is mine, and I get to do what I want with it."。
And so our mindset before we come in a relationship with Jesus is, "I'm the owner of everything。
that I've worked hard for."。
But actually, when we come into faith with Jesus, the Bible does not give us an option。
to think that way anymore.。
The Bible says it's all a 180-degree thought.。
Now no longer am I the owner of everything that I've worked hard for.。
Now I'm a servant of the one who has done it all, that it is all in his hands.。
He owns it all.。
And my relationship now is not, "This is mine because I've gained."。
It is, "This is his, so what do I do with it?"。
Are you with me?。
We are not masters of our lives and owners of the things we have through our own hard。
work.。
We are servants of the King and stewards of his resources through his divine grace, and。
that changes everything.。
That challenges us.。
That should light a fire within us, that we would begin to think of our resources in a。
different way.。
Rather than thinking that we have the responsibility because we own, we begin to think, "What is。
it that Jesus would want me to do with this because it's not mine anyway?"。
When your posture of stewardship is to say, "It's not mine anyway," the kingdom of God。
advances.。
This is why Peter uses this word here.。
He says, "You are a faithful steward."。
The word in the Greek is oikonomos.。
Oikonomos literally translated, oikos is house.。
Onomos is this idea of being a servant.。
So oikonomos is basically someone who in the first century was a household manager, a household。
administrator.。
I think it's profound that Peter took this word from the first century that everybody。
would have understood as an oikonomos is a household manager, and he applies it to the。
resources that we have in our life from God.。
He says, "Don't you realize because he's the owner of all things, he's done this profound。
thing.。
He's called you to be his household manager, to manage and administrate his resources,。
which if I was God, I would not have done it that way."。
I mean, stop for a moment and think about that, right?。
Like if you're God and you're like, "Well, I have all this stuff in my life.。
I have all this power and I want to give it away," and you look at the human beings, you'd。
be like, "I'm not giving it to those people," right?。
You'd be like, "The sin, the brokenness, the pride, the arrogance."。
But God in his wisdom, a wisdom that we don't always understand, says, "No, I've placed。
all of my resources into your hands because you are my economists.。
I want you to now work that resource out into the world around you."。
Notice that the oikonomos word sounds a lot like a modern word we use today, which is。
the word economy.。
But actually, the word economy draws from this Greek word oikonomos.。
So what Peter's teaching is, you've got to understand that when you come to faith in。
Christ Jesus and you look at all the resources in your life, you are then swept up in a new。
economy.。
It's not the old economy where you can hoard and receive and do what you want with it.。
It's a new economy.。
And in God's economy, he's looking for his people to release that there would be a flow。
of that resource in the kingdom.。
This concept of the flow of resource is central to the idea of what it means for us to be。
stewards and household managers, and that we are to do this in beautiful kingdom revealing。
ways.。
This is the image of the first church, is it not, in the book of Acts, who as they begin。
to wrestle with the profundity of Jesus' death and resurrection, begin to create communities。
all around the Greco-Roman empire that would reveal the gospel, reveal a new economy to。
the world around it.。
I mean, take a look at Acts chapter 2, verses 44 and 45.。
It says this.。
It says, "All the believers were together and had everything in common.。
They sold property and possessions to give to anyone who had need."。
This is a new economy at work.。
And it's at work because these Christians have begun to understand they're no longer。
the owners, but they are stewards.。
And because they're stewards, then the flow of those resources needs to move out from。
them into the world around them.。
Anybody who had need within their community was met through the flow of God's stewards。
within the church.。
Such a beautiful picture.。
And think about the implications of this.。
Abundance, this generosity, which is really the overflow of the resources of God in the。
world, and poverty, which is the restriction of those resources and actually the inequitable。
distribution of them, both generosity and poverty flow from the gateway of stewardship.。
Which means that if we are the economists of God's household, we as Christians are responsible。
for whether there might be a generous flow of those resources in our communities or there。
might be a poverty type restriction of those resources in our communities.。
And we're not just talking about the church, we're talking about our city.。
And as we take on board that incredible responsibility, it should shake something within us.。
It's why Peter says here, "You are to use this economic gift that you have to flow those。
resources to serve others."。
Now that doesn't mean that you can't be a steward of those resources in a way that can。
benefit yourself, but the Bible is trying to challenge us to think about this idea of。
generosity and poverty and which of these two do I generally do in the world around。
me.。
In other words, am I flowing the resource as a river or have I become a dam?。
Have I backed up those resources?。
Are those resources building up behind the walls of my fear, the walls of my pride, the。
walls of my greed?。
Have I become a dam for the flow of God's resources in the world or am I a river which。
is releasing and watering the world around me with the beautiful things that Christ has。
done for me?。
This is a deep challenge.。
And this is why Peter says these words.。
He says, "You're not just a steward, but you must be a faithful steward."。
Peter understood that a stewardship mentality is not enough.。
You have to steward with a faithfulness, with this sense that you understand what is on。
God's heart and you want to administer that in the world so that the gospel might be revealed.。
You see, just having a stewardship mentality does not guarantee that you will become a。
vessel of the flow of God's resources in the world.。
You got to take that mentality and link it to this idea of faithfulness.。
And faithfulness I think is linked to two things.。
First of all, it's linked to the idea of being obedient with what God has given us.。
It doesn't mean that you have to take a vow of poverty.。
Being faithful to the stewardship of God's resources in your life might mean taking care。
of your family, making sure your family has what it needs.。
It's not saying that you have to become poor.。
But equally, it's not saying that you have to become rich.。
It's not saying that suddenly as a good faithful steward, God's going to keep rewarding you。
and rewarding you and rewarding you so you can become wealthier and wealthier.。
This is not a prosperity gospel-centered idea.。
In fact, what Peter is saying is whether you're poor or you're wealthy, God is saying the。
same thing to you.。
God speaks exactly the same thing to the poorest of the poor and the wealthiest of the wealthy.。
He asks them the same question.。
Here's the question.。
Are you being faithful with the resource that God has given you?。
You see, faithfulness is not linked to abundance.。
It's linked to obedience.。
And so those who don't seem to have much and those that seem to have a lot are asked that。
question, "Are we still being faithful with what it is that we have received?。
Are we flowing the resource that God has placed within us?"。
This is why when the Bible speaks about the resources that he gives to his church, it。
doesn't speak about it primarily as a theoretical issue.。
It's not spoken about primarily as a theological issue.。
It's spoken primarily as a relational issue.。
In other words, my relationship with the owner of all things will have a direct dependency。
on how I steward those resources, how I see Jesus is going to impact what I do with his。
resources.。
Does that make sense?。
So as my intimacy and my knowledge and my connection with Jesus increases, so should。
the resources of him flow out from me in ways that reveal the gospel around me.。
But equally, if that relationship is stale, if it's become stagnant, if it's broken because。
of sin or broken because of whatever it might be, then I don't become a vessel by which。
I might be able to use those resources in the way that would honor the owner.。
This is exactly the teaching that Jesus gives us in the parable of the talent in Matthew。
25 verses 14 to 30.。
We don't have time to look at it line by line today, but let me just summarize the parable。
itself.。
There is a wealthy homeowner who's going on a trip and actually gives his property to。
be cared for in his absence to three oikonomists in his midst, household managers.。
Two of them take what is received from the master of the house, and they put that money。
to work.。
They know him.。
They know what he would want.。
They understand his expectations, and they put that money to work.。
And when the master of the house returns, they show, "Look, we've doubled what it is。
that you have given us."。
And the household master looks at what they've done, knowing that it is in connection to。
his character, and speaks over them, "Well done, my good and faithful servants."。
"You've proven a faithfulness because you knew me."。
The third oikonomist, though, didn't know the master very well, and in fact was only。
afraid of the master, so fearful, in fact, that he was like, "Well, if I invest this。
money and I get it wrong and I lose the money, then I'm going to get punished."。
So he takes the gift that he had been given, buries it in the ground, just waiting for。
the master to return.。
When the master returns, uncovers it, and brings it to the master.。
And the master's like, "What have you done?"。
And the response is, "Well, I thought you were like this.。
I feared you.。
I thought you were going to tell me off if I got it wrong."。
And the master's like, "You have no idea who I am, because if you knew my character, if。
you knew my heart, you would have at least put it into the bank and earned some interest。
on it."。
He literally says that.。
And he says, "So therefore," he doesn't say, "Well done, my good and faithful servant."。
He says, "No, no."。
And actually, there's some of the things that he says are pretty strong in the Scripture.。
And it's like he gets sort of chastised because he didn't know him.。
And so when Peter is speaking to the church about this idea of, "Hey, you're a faithful。
steward of the resources God has given you," I think he's thinking about the parable of。
talents.。
And he's saying, "That means you've got to know the one who is the owner of it all.。
And as your heart increases in that, your hands will open even more."。
The more that we understand the heart and the nature of God, the more we will be faithful。
with the resources that He has given us.。
That's just the reality of it all.。
So how do we do this?。
How do we as Christians honor the owner of all things with the faithfulness of a stewardship。
of the resources that He's placed in our lives, whether those resources may seem to us a lot。
or a little?。
How do we do it faithfully?。
Well, there's this beautiful passage in the Old Testament, in the book of Ecclesiastes,。
actually.。
And oftentimes when I've spoken on stewardship, I've gone to this passage.。
So if you've been at the Vine for a while, you're probably going to roll your eyes now。
because I'm going back to that passage again.。
But I think it's actually one of the most beautiful demonstrations of what stewardship。
of resource really looks like and what Peter is teaching about in 1 Peter 4.10.。
So this is Ecclesiastes chapter 4, a wisdom writer who's writing truths about the world.。
And he says this.。
He says, "The fool folds his hands and ruins himself.。
Better one handful with tranquility than two handfuls with toil and chasing after the wind."。
It's classic wisdom, kind of poetic structure to this verse.。
The writer is challenging his people.。
The broader context of the chapter is he's talking specifically about what we have, the。
resources in our lives.。
He says, "The fool folds his hands.。
Better one handful with tranquility than two handfuls with toil and chasing after the wind."。
Let me show you a bit of a demonstration of what I think actually the wisdom writer here。
is trying to communicate through the Hebrew word that is used here in the structure of。
the passage.。
So I want you to think this is a box of rice.。
I want you to think about this box of rice as the resources in your life, like your energy,。
your time, your finances, your talents, your gifts, whatever they might be.。
This represents the fullness of those resources that God has given to you.。
The wisdom writer says, "You're a fool," the Hebrew means you're basically an idiot, "if。
you recognize that you have all these resources and you fold your hands to them."。
In other words, you don't do anything with it.。
This is the posture of that third servant in the parable of the talents.。
It's like I've got all this resource that has been given to me, but I just fold my hands。
and I check out and I don't do anything with it.。
You might be sitting there thinking like, "Well, that's a bit silly.。
Why would anyone ever not do something with what they have been given?"。
But I wonder whether you just take a moment to reflect about why maybe all of us at some。
point folds our hands to the resources God has given us.。
I think we fold our hands sometimes out of fear, fear that if we did something with those。
resources we might lose them entirely and we don't want to lose them.。
So we fold our hands and check out.。
I think sometimes we fold our hands because maybe in the past we did something with our。
resource, maybe our energy or our time or we connected in a relationship or we gave。
everything to someone and they turned their back on us, they betrayed us or they hurt。
us deeply.。
And because of that hurt and that pain, we're like, "I'm never going to do that again.。
I'm never going to give anybody my time like that again."。
And so out of hurt, we fold our hands.。
I think the other reason why we do it is out of insecurity.。
We compare our gifts, our resources to what somebody else has and we think, "Well, the。
church doesn't need that gift of mine because have you seen that person?"。
Or "My talent doesn't seem to be as great as that," or "My resources are not as much."。
And so because of an insecurity that's driven by comparison, we fold our hands.。
The wisdom writer says, "If you're doing that, you're an idiot."。
But then he says this.。
He says, "You're also a bit of an idiot if you take two handfuls."。
He says, "Two handfuls is a toil and a chasing after the wind."。
In the Hebrew, the word for hand in this part of the passage is actually the Hebrew word。
"khofen," and "khofen" means literally to clench your hand, to grasp a hold of.。
So the wisdom writer is saying, "You are also a fool if you grasp a hold of those resources。
and you hold onto them as tightly as you can.。
You khofen the resource."。
Now on the surface, we look at this and we think, "But isn't that a good thing?"。
I mean, we haven't folded our hands.。
We haven't checked out.。
We've taken the resource that God has given us and we're holding it tightly.。
And sometimes I think we kid ourselves.。
It's like, "I'm holding it tightly until God tells me to do something with it."。
But actually we're just hoping that God never speaks to us and that we can just continue。
to hold on to the two great handfuls of resource that we've got.。
I want you to notice two things.。
Number one, it's really hard when you're grasping a hold of the resources God has given you。
in your life like khofen to get more of that resource into your hands.。
I mean, I'd have to change the posture of my hand to be able to do so.。
Notice also that it's hard to let it flow.。
If I grasp it tightly, it's not falling out of my hands perhaps like it should.。
The wisdom writer is saying, "The posture of this is toil and chasing after the wind."。
This is anxiety and stress.。
This is a poverty mentality.。
I'm not going to lose what it is.。
I don't want to lose what I've got.。
And in the stress and the toil, we grasp a hold even tighter.。
And we say things like, "When my bank account gets to this level, I'll be more generous."。
And then when we get there, we're like, "Yeah, but I just got more expenses now as well.。
So maybe it's okay for me to wait again."。
I think all of us resonate with the stress and the anxiety and the toil of khofen.。
We may have two big handfuls, but it's killing us.。
So the wisdom writer is saying, "There's a better way to posture your heart when it。
comes to the resources of God's kingdom."。
He says, "It's better to have just one handful, but with tranquility."。
The Hebrew word for handful here is chof.。
Chof literally means an open hand, a palm facing upwards.。
So rather than these two grasping hands of posture of heart, he's saying, "It's better。
to be like this.。
It's better to have one hand open before him like this."。
Now you'll notice that the resources is flowing just like Peter would hope that it would flow.。
But if you're anything like me, you're seeing the resources coming out of your bank account。
or out of your energy, and you're like, "Hang on a sec.。
There's not a lot of resource left."。
But notice what happens when your posture is like this, God can do this.。
Because God can put in and flow and in and flow.。
And this, my friends, is the flow of the kingdom.。
This is what the resources are supposed to do.。
The Bible writer says, "Oh man, it is better to be like this and to have tranquility in。
your life, receiving and flowing, receiving and flowing."。
Peter writes to the church and he says, "Be a faithful steward of God's grace that he's。
given to you.。
It is not to fold and give up, to grasp tightly.。
It is literally to just be open-handed before him."。
This, my friends, is peace.。
It's life.。
It's the way God's economy was always designed to be.。
A few weeks ago, we were having a staff devotion and somebody shared a story, a testimony of。
one of our community members here at the Vine.。
And I was so blown away by this that I was like, "We have to make space in our service。
today to hear of this."。
Because it's a story about the flow of God's resources within its kingdom.。
So I wonder whether you'd put your hands together as we invite Pastor Stephen and Minaj to come。
to the stage.。
Can we do that?。
>> Thanks, Andrew.。
Good morning, everybody.。
Just before we start, I just want to just clarify something.。
A lot of people are a little bit confused about what's ARISE and what's BOH.。
So I just want to clarify that.。
So ARISE is a ministry in the Vine Church.。
BOH is an NGO that operates alongside the Vine Church.。
We serve a part of the same community.。
But the way we kind of figure out who does what in taking care of kind of a holistic。
perspective of meeting everybody's needs, BOH focuses on the hand needs, the felt needs,。
and we focus on the heart needs, the spiritual needs.。
So just to clarify that a little bit, I know a lot of people think ARISE is BOH or BOH。
is ARISE, but actually we're two separate things.。
So welcome, Minaj.。
Good to have you with us today.。
I wonder, I know you've been in Hong Kong and around the Vine for about 10 years.。
Can you maybe just give us a brief introduction to your background and how you got here?。
Yes.。
I'm originally from India and I grew up in a very strict Hindu family.。
And in my early 20s, I believed in science rather than God.。
And due to some trouble in my country, I had to come to Hong Kong as an asylum seeker.。
So after I arrived in Hong Kong, like two weeks, one of my friends invited me to the。
Vine church.。
It was a Sunday, so I had nothing else to do.。
So I say, "Let's go."。
So one of my first visits, I came up for the prayer and the person asked me what I wanted。
to pray for.。
So even though at that time I had many material needs, but I found myself asking that, "Please。
pray for me to come closer to God."。
And every time when I come to the Vine, I felt amazing peace, but I had never felt before.。
And later I baptized, I remember my new birthday is 12th of June, 2016.。
Wow, that's awesome.。
That's awesome.。
So Pastor Andrew's been speaking to us today about stewardship and this idea of God's resources。
are meant to flow through us, kind of being a river or a conduit for His resources rather。
than holding onto stuff and being like a dam.。
So I know part of your story, there's one incident that happened in your life where。
something flowed into your life and God blessed you in a way.。
Can you tell us about that?。
Yes, at the very beginning in Hong Kong, in some reason I lost all my belongings, especially。
my shoes.。
One of my friends gave me a trouser, but it was too big, too loose.。
I cannot walk.。
If I walk a few steps, I need to hold or otherwise I had to adjust.。
So in desperation, I went to a nearby shop here to buy a belt to fix it.。
I found a nice belt, but I didn't have enough money to buy it.。
I tried to negotiate with the shopkeeper, but the shopkeeper wouldn't budge on the。
price.。
I was really heartbroken.。
I left the shop and I found myself holding the handrail beside the road.。
I was crying and I closed my eyes and I asked God, "God, how long will you test me?"。
The next day, we had an ARISE fellowship.。
Unexpectedly, an Indonesian sister approached me with a plastic bag and she handed me the。
plastic bag and said, "This is for you."。
When I opened the bag, I was astonished to see inside it was a leather belt inside.。
Curiously, I asked, "How do you know I needed a belt?"。
She said she was shopping the day before.。
Suddenly my face popped up in her mind and she felt that God was prompting her to buy。
a belt for me.。
And then, later I found out it was the same time when I cried out to the Lord, asking。
for a belt for my problem.。
Because this incident profoundly changed me.。
I also want to be grateful for how she blessed me, even though she had not much money.。
Because she was like an asylum seeker like me.。
But she was obedient and faithful and her faithfulness also guided me.。
I also want to follow her example to bless and help others.。
And you've been a tremendous blessing to so many people here at the Vine Church and in。
ARISE ministry.。
I know that's definitely part of your heart.。
But I know there's a very specific thing that the Lord asked you to do, and you've been。
doing this for like seven to eight years now.。
Can you tell us a little bit about that?。
Yes.。
The Lord blessed me in many ways.。
So I have received so much from the Lord.。
I was thinking I want to give back.。
At the same time, the Branches of Hope launched a campaign to give us a piggy bank.。
This piggy bank.。
This is Manoj's piggy bank.。
To collect the changes and bring at the end of the year to donate to BOH.。
But I want to participate.。
I am thinking how can I participate?。
So I prayed to God and asked, "Please guide me."。
And God showed me.。
I have decided to put one dollar every day in my piggy bank.。
Yeah.。
There's money in there.。
So at the end of the year, $365 I gave to the BOH.。
So I must be honest with my... because sometime I had no money to recharge my Octopus card.。
So I need to borrow from the piggy bank.。
I think we've all been there, right?。
But I always make sure to end of every year, I made like $365.。
So I am still doing this day.。
So I don't know if you heard the last part.。
He said this started in 2018 and he's still doing it today as you can hear.。
So thank you so much, Manoj.。
That's such an amazing testimony.。
Yeah, let's give him a round of applause.。
Your faithfulness and your obedience to the Lord is an example to all of us.。
So thank you very much for sharing that with us today.。
God bless you.。
I think the Lord sees something like that and sort of turns to Manoj and says, "Well。
done, my good and faithful servant."。
Amen.。
And Peter, Peter writes to the church and he goes, "Each one of you have a gift and。
you are to faithfully administrate that gift to serve others, being a faithful steward。
of God's grace that has been entrusted to you in all of its forms."。
We're not owners.。
We're stewards.。
We receive such abundance and we've been given such glorious grace.。
Peter would say, "It is in your hands."。
The question for us then is, are those hands folded?。
Are they clenched?。
Are they open?。
Can I pray for you?。
Should we stand together?。
Let's pray.。
Father, I'm just so grateful for each person in this room and watching online and our overflow。
in this moment.。
Lord, you called us to be these stewards of the resources you have planted and placed。
in our lives.。
What a joy it is to be able to stand before you as not owners, but those responsibly entrusted。
as household managers.。
Lord, we pray that we would be able to manage your resources effectively for your glory.。
Lord, where fear has gotten away, would you just speak to us?。
Lord, where insecurity has played a part in us holding on, would you forgive us?。
Lord, for those of us in this room that recognize we've become a dam rather than a flowing river,。
would you help us to understand why and would you enable us to let go?。
For those of us that resonate with the two fists clenched and the stress and the fear。
and the anxiety that comes alongside of those two clenched fists.。
Lord, would your spirit fill us now and bring that tranquility, that peace that needs to。
be over us?。
And would you help us to open our hand before you, that palm open, enabling the resource。
to flow for your kingdom?。
And God, what a beautiful thing it is to be Christians in Hong Kong that could model a。
different economy to the world's economy, to Hong Kong's economy.。
That it wouldn't be about hoarding and gaining and status and showing.。
It would be about liberating and giving and letting go and glorifying Jesus.。
And as Menage has so beautifully shown us, as he received, so he eagerly gave, would。
that be upon us all as we head out to be those public witnesses of the gospel in the spheres。
of influence you planted us in?。
And we give you glory for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, "Amen."。
Amen.。
Let's worship together.。
[APPLAUSE]。
