"Whew, what a weekend we've had and incredible."。
I feel like my friend who, whenever he's done eating a meal, he pushes back from the table。
and he goes, "Is it supposed to hurt when you're done eating?"。
Right?。
Like, I feel like that kind of weekend where it's just like, "Could there be more?"。
And then the answer, of course, is yes, there's more.。
There's more.。
And our task here is to increase our capacity, right?。
It's not that there's more of God, it's that there's more room in us for the God who fills。
us in every way.。
And I still remember the day that my eldest son went to first day of school, kindergarten.。
And I was living in Australia at the time.。
And so he was about five and he wanted to walk by himself even, you know, like I couldn't。
hold his hand.。
He was like all independent, went to school first day.。
And it was quite a day.。
And then when he got home, I was all excited.。
And I said to him, you know, "How did it go?。
You know, your first day of kindergarten in Australia.。
I mean, like, come on, how was it?"。
And he said, "It was boring."。
I was like, "How could it be boring?"。
And he said, "Well, all we did today was we just literally took turns telling stories。
about what we had done over the summer break."。
And I said, "That doesn't sound boring.。
Like we did some actual cool things over the summer break."。
I was like, "So what did you share?。
Like, what was your story?"。
And he said, "Well, I wanted mine to be really good so I made one up."。
And I said, "Really?"。
I had a spot of preacher's kid.。
So I said, "Well, what did you say?"。
And he goes, "Well, mom, you remember that time back in Canada when I was in that go-kart。
race and I was going around the track and then all of a sudden my go-kart, it like exploded。
and it turned into a motorcycle.。
And then I ran that motorcycle all the way through and I won and they gave me that big。
gold trophy."。
And I said, "Nope.。
Don't remember."。
And then he just looked at me and he put his hand on my head like this and he just closed。
his eyes.。
And then he said, "Do you remember now?"。
My son, his name is Zion, what he's after is a better story.。
He's after a better story.。
It's what we're all after.。
Actually, sometimes I think when we get to heaven, the first day of heaven is just going。
to be us telling stories about what we did on our summer break and I want mine to be。
a good one.。
And here's the thing, I think the way that Jesus invites us to live our lives is we don't。
have to make it up.。
Our stories will be good.。
Our stories will be worthy.。
Our stories will be helpful and good and full of the abundant Zoe life that Jesus offers。
us if we'll live that way.。
And in some ways, even coming to church together like this and worshiping and remembering,。
I mean, even that last song of worship is from a guy who was a prisoner on an island。
of Patmos like under the boot of the empire.。
I mean, literally, like Christians are being persecuted everywhere in Rome and he's mustering。
up.。
I mean, I can only...。
It was not anything like that.。
He's like a little girl in the middle of nowhere and he's probably just going like, "I sing。
holy."。
Like he's trying to muster up his own sense of self and he says, "I'm worshiping on the。
Lord's day as a prisoner."。
And then all of a sudden, I hear this voice from heaven like a trumpet and it says, "Come。
on up here.。
Come up here.。
I want to show you some things.。
I want to tell you some things.。
I want to tell you some things that are more real than the real you're experiencing right。
now that are more true, that they're the character of God, the invitation that God has for all。
of his children to be beloved, to be known.。
You know, come up here.。
Come up now."。
And all the angels cry, "Holy."。
And this is sort of this resetting, this invitation.。
I want to take a look at the life of the disciples in Mark chapter four, just really quick, just。
like a little story that's kind of set in the life of Jesus and the disciples.。
There's this one more, you know, in this rhythm that Jesus has where he's always inviting。
people to come, come and see.。
And this is one of the great problems that we have sometimes in our faith journey and。
Christianity is somehow we've come under this idea that is an illusion that Christianity。
is about what we believe.。
You know, there's just a construct.。
There's just another religion.。
There's just a construct of belief.。
And so we say like, "If we believe these things or if I hold to these things, then that's。
what this is."。
It's just like a practice of another religion.。
But it's not.。
It's not.。
That's an illusion.。
The real thing, like the real faith practice is an invitation to actually follow Jesus.。
It's an invitation to come, to see, to taste, to move.。
The invitation to follow Jesus is always a disruption to status quo and an invitation。
into growth and a reality to experience something that is beyond what we could even ever conjure。
up in our best stories.。
And so this is one of those.。
This is like a little tiny snapshot in the life of Jesus and the disciples that I think。
holds some keys to this disruptive reimagining of what our faith is and what it means to。
follow Jesus.。
And it's in Mark's Gospel, chapter 4, near the end.。
We're all going to read it together.。
I'm just going to invite you to read it out loud with me.。
Are you ready?。
Here we go.。
Mark 4, starting at verse 35, and let's go.。
That day, when evening came, he said to his disciples, "Let us go over to the other side."。
And leaving the crowd behind, they took him along just as he was in the boat.。
There were also other boats with him.。
A furious squall came up, and the waves broke over the boat so that it was nearly swamped.。
Jesus was in the stern, sleeping on a cushion.。
And the disciples woke him and said to him, "Teacher, don't you care if we drown?"。
He got up, rebuked the wind, and said to the waves, "Quiet, be still."。
Then the wind died down, and it was completely calm.。
He said to his disciples, "Why are you so afraid?。
Do you still have no faith?"。
They were terrified and asked each other, "Who is this?"。
Even the wind and the waves obeyed him.。
Amen.。
This invitation that Jesus gives to the disciples in this context is a disruption.。
And it's a disruption because, number one, they're killing it.。
They're doing amazing.。
If you read a little bit before this, you'll see they're in the...。
Jesus is just killing it in mystery.。
He's just like, he's winning.。
There's crowds of people.。
He's healing everybody.。
People are being healed of diseases and cured of evil spirits, and they're just like, whispers。
are going everywhere.。
This is probably the one who was expected.。
This is probably the Messiah.。
There's all these...。
I mean, the disciples are probably just living their best lives.。
Their moms are just like, "That's my boy over there with that rabbi who's healing all the。
people."。
I mean, it's just like, "Woo-hoo!"。
And Jesus is like, "Yeah, we should...。
Now's a good time to go."。
It's like, "No, now's not a good time to go.。
Now's a good time to stay, because if we stay here, we could keep building this thing.。
We could be the height of success.。
We could be like, the dreams could come true.。
My mom could be actually proud of me."。
And then Jesus is like, "No, let's go."。
And when he says, "Let's go to the other side," it's not just like, "Let's go to the other。
side of the lake, because it's better over there."。
It's like, "Let's go to the other side of the tracks."。
It's like, "Let's go to that part of the lake where your mom said, 'Don't go there.'"。
Because over there are all the compromisers.。
Over there are all the pig farmers, which if you're Jewish and kosher at all, you know。
that's not what you want to be near.。
Over there is where all those Roman sympathizers are, all those sellouts of the empire.。
Over there is where all of those people live.。
Don't go over there.。
And in the midst of this successful, amazing ministry, Jesus says, "Yeah, we should...。
You know where we should go?"。
I remember living in Australia, and I was doing some social justice work there, trying。
to help women who were suffering from sexual exploitation within a brothel system that。
was legalized.。
So it's really tricky.。
And I just remember going, "I don't even know how to do this.。
This is crazy."。
And I was asking the Lord, "How are we going to do this?"。
And I got this call from this friend's mother.。
She's a retired Baptist lady in a suburb in Australia.。
And she says, "Danielle, I need to meet with you."。
So you always say yes to your friend's mom, right?。
So I met with her, and she said, "I was...。
Oh," she said, "I keep getting these calls because my number, my phone number is only。
one digit different from the local brothel in my neighborhood's phone number."。
So she said, "I keep getting these calls, you know, and they're really disruptive.。
I don't want these calls."。
So she said, "I decided that I would change my phone number."。
So she said, "On the day that I was going to go change my phone number, I was doing。
my devotions in the morning like a good Baptist should, and she said the Holy Spirit spoke。
to me."。
I said, "Awkward."。
Anyway, and she said, "The Holy Spirit said, 'Jan, why are you changing your phone number?'"。
And she said, "Well, because the local brothel, you know, but I keep getting these calls."。
And she said, "I felt like the Holy Spirit said to me, 'I know I'm sending them.'"。
And she said to me, "So what should I do?"。
And I'm thinking to myself, "I don't know.。
What?。
Am I an expert on grandma mobilization?"。
You know, like I...。
You know, but then I'm also like hearing the Holy Spirit say like, "Hey," right?。
So when you don't know what to do, you just ask more questions, right?。
Like as a leader, you're not allowed to go like, "I don't know.。
This is crazy.。
I don't know what I'm doing."。
As a leader, you have to go, "Oh, interesting question you have there, Jan.。
Hmm, I don't want.。
I wonder."。
You know, so I said, "What would you normally do if you had a neighbor?。
You know, you're a neighborly person.。
You're a Christian in your community.。
Like, what would you do if someone had an accident?。
You know, your neighbor moved in and was new from another country.。
Like, what would you normally do?。
What would be your normal response as a good neighbor?"。
She said, "Oh, that's easy.。
I would just bake some cupcakes and go visit."。
And I'm like, "Great.。
Let's do that."。
She said, "Do what?"。
I'm like, "Well, you're going to have to bake.。
I don't do that.。
But like you bake the cupcakes and we'll go visit your local brothel."。
And she's like, "That's the strategy?"。
I'm like, "Yes, Padawan."。
I'm like, "I..."。
And the whole weekend, she's like baking, baking, baking, praying, praying, praying.。
And the whole weekend, I'm praying, "God, please don't kill Jan.。
Like, please don't let her die.。
Like, please let this be a good strategy.。
Like, ah, what have I done?。
You know, it's my friend's mom.。
Like, I'm just like, ah."。
And anyway, we meet together at the headquarters where I worked.。
And it's just a couple blocks away, this brothel.。
And we meet together to pray.。
And she's got the cupcakes.。
And I'm like ready to go.。
And we're praying up a storm.。
And she says to me, you know, "This weekend when I was praying, I felt like God said to。
me, 'Jan, this...。
Like this is good.。
But like I want you to do this by myself.。
Like by yourself.。
Like you do it.'"。
And I remember saying to her, "But like, but I'm like the expert."。
Right?。
Like, I'm like the social...。
I've got like a title and everything.。
Like I'm ready.。
Like I'm headquarters material.。
You know, like I'm mobile.。
Like I'm the...。
And she said, "Yeah, you're the expert, but I'm the neighbor."。
What?。
I said, "Okay.。
Okay.。
You can do it yourself.。
But I'm coming like for support."。
Right?。
Like I'm coming...。
I remember Jan, like literally this was...。
This is crazy.。
This is disruptive.。
This is what this is.。
Right?。
This is like her life's fine.。
She's a good Christian woman.。
She doesn't need more drama in her life.。
She's retired for Pete's sake.。
When does it end?。
Right?。
She's like a good neighbor.。
She's a good person.。
She goes to church.。
She's a Christian.。
And there's a disruption to her life.。
And the disruption is not a problem.。
It's an invitation to go to the other side.。
Jesus has something for her.。
Jesus has something.。
He has a need to respond to need in the world, to injustice in the world.。
And so he's inviting her.。
So we get to this brothel and I'm just praying up a storm.。
Most of it is just like really strong prayers of faith, like, "Please don't let anything。
happen to this woman."。
But also I'm just like binding the spirit of sexual exploitation over her.。
I'm just like, "God, make a way."。
I'm like from the Salvation Army, so I'm just like arsenal.。
I release the blessing of God, like favor of God over this brothel.。
Just like open doors.。
Then I just watch Jan climb up.。
She's like shaking.。
She's got this batch of cupcakes and she knocks on the door and this guy manager opens the。
door because she's not the normal clientele.。
And he says, "Can I help you?"。
And she goes, "I brought cupcakes."。
And literally I saw in the spirit, I saw the cosmic superpower of like demonic power of。
exploitation going, "No, not the cupcakes."。
Because Jan just walked in.。
And she went into the back room and met every girl and like got her name, got the name,。
got every woman and got their names, invited them over for dinners.。
And I'm sorry it took me so long to get here.。
I'm your neighbor.。
I'm an Australian.。
Have you ever had an Australian dish?。
I'd love to host it.。
But like just this whole...。
She came out of that brothel just kind of levitating.。
And she said, "I'm coming back next Tuesday.。
This is happening.。
I'm being a neighbor."。
And I ran back to headquarters and I called 10 of my craziest friends and I said, "Quick,。
we got to get organized.。
The Baptists are going to beat us to the brothels."。
And eventually this whole strategy of brothel chaplaincy started and 70 different teams。
across cities across and we found syndicates of trafficking.。
I mean, it's just like a whole thing.。
But listen, this is the point.。
The disruption, the irritation, the pain in the neck, the thing that you never wanted,。
the thing that you didn't want.。
And it doesn't always happen.。
It's not like the disciples are fleeing because they're like, "This isn't working out.。
We better go somewhere else."。
It's working.。
They're living their best lives.。
They're like living their dream.。
And that's when the invitation comes to cross over to the other side.。
I was thinking when I was studying the scripture, I was just like, "Why?"。
It just seems kind of like so random.。
Like why do this?。
And I was studying a monk, Daniel Bourget from France, who was just meditating on the。
scripture for most of his life actually.。
And he said, "If you read on in chapter five when they get there and some of the things。
that unfold, it describes the guy that is unable to be helped by anybody else.。
He's beyond helpable.。
He's possessed by a legion of demonic spirits.。
He's possessed by...。
He can't be contained.。
He's roaming around.。
He's cutting himself.。
He's just like this person under the boot of the empire.。
In all of the ways, he's isolated.。
He's alone.。
He is the poor.。
He is the forsaken.。
He is the forgotten.。
He is the unheard.。
He is the invisible.。
He's the pain in the neck.。
He's the one that doesn't matter.。
And the scripture, when they're describing him in Mark chapter five, it says that he。
would go into the mountains and he would cry out.。
And Daniel says, "You know, when I was looking into studying the scripture, the word cry。
out there is the same word that God uses to describe himself when he says, 'I am the。
God who hears the cry.'"。
And he's convinced that the reason Jesus says at the height of the ministry in his own region。
when everything was going great and he was totally expended actually, I think he was。
totally exhausted because all day long he had been healing the sick and preaching and。
doing all the things all day.。
And at the end of the day, the God who hears the cry heard the cry on the other side of。
the lake.。
And because God is who God is and because God is the God who hears the cry, he says,。
"Let's go.。
We got to go."。
The disciples go, "Go, go, go right now?。
Right now."。
Because God, the character of God is the one who responds to the cry.。
It's who he is.。
So the invitation for the disciples is to come on an encounter with the living Jesus,。
the one who hears the cry, the one who responds to it, the one who can't hold himself back。
actually when he hears it, the God who hears the cry, and in they go.。
So there's one invitation, "Come, follow me.。
Let's go to the other side."。
It's always disruptive, but it's always an invitation to actually go with Jesus, which。
is the difference between a living faith and a construct of a belief.。
The living faith, always go for that one.。
Always go for that one.。
And the story unfolds with, I think, four basic questions that happen.。
Okay?。
So first of all, when they get into the boat and they go to the other side, and I don't。
know if you have this belief, but I often believe this, is if I do what God asks me。
to do, everything should work out fine.。
Right?。
As a matter of fact, I've heard people say, "This is so hard, it must not be God's will."。
Have you ever heard that?。
It's like, "I would do this, but the resistance is there, so obviously God doesn't want me。
to do it."。
I'm like, "Have you even read the Bible?"。
Right?。
Like, when you actually respond to an invitation that God gives you to be formed, to be close。
to Jesus, to know what it is to be like Jesus in the world, to actually be this person that。
Jesus invites you to do, all it is is resistance.。
I mean, Jesus literally, like, if only he had said in the scriptures, "Guys, this is。
going to be hard."。
Oh, wait a minute, he did!。
Over and over and over, the world's going to hate you, the resistance is going to be。
hard, people might insult you and persecute you and say all kinds of false things about。
you.。
As the disciples mature in their faith, he's like, "They're probably even going to kill。
you, but don't worry."。
This is the invitation to be formed by Christ, is a disruption to the status quo and an invitation。
to actually follow Jesus and be formed by the resistance.。
I don't think the storm that came up on that lake was just a happenstance.。
I don't think, "Oh, nuts, Jesus picked the wrong night."。
I don't think anything.。
I think the resistance is part of the training.。
That's how we learn to be disciples.。
The resistance trains us, makes us stronger, helps us get to the core of what it is and。
who it is that we are to know and encounter Jesus for ourselves so that when we actually。
go and tell the good news, we've encountered it.。
We know the one of whom we speak, this Jesus.。
And so the storm comes against them, and there's four questions in the text that I just want。
to follow quickly.。
The first one is the disciples' panic.。
The disciples are freaking out, and this must have been a pretty bad storm because they。
go wake up Jesus.。
Jesus is sleeping, which is a whole other thing.。
Jesus isn't afraid of chaos, by the way.。
Surrender is not trying harder.。
It's relaxing into the goodness of God, the grace of God, the strength of God, the kingship。
of God.。
And Jesus has surrendered to God.。
And the disciples wake him up, and all of the verbs there are like they're panicked,。
and they say to Jesus this question, "Do you not even care if we drown?"。
That's a fascinating question.。
It's not save us, we're going to drown.。
It's a deeper question than that.。
Teacher, they say, "Do you even care if we drown?"。
You know what that question is?。
That question is honest.。
That question is a deeper question than most people get to in their journey of discipleship.。
That question is a question that can only actually be asked when times are tough, when。
fear is there, when the panic sets in, when you're in an encounter that's too hard for。
you and too difficult to you.。
Do you even care?。
Do you even care?。
I remember journeying with a friend of mine who had a life that looked just great.。
She was married to the chief of surgery.。
She was living it.。
She was wealthy.。
She was an artist.。
She has all these things.。
She's beautiful.。
But actually the reality of her life was that her marriage was a mess.。
Her friends weren't real.。
It was all fake.。
It was like she was isolated.。
She was stuck.。
No one really knew her.。
No one knew her.。
She felt isolated and alone.。
She was depressed.。
And she just kept taking more and more medication to try to numb her feelings.。
And I remember saying to her one day, "I'm not even recognizing you, man.。
How much meds are you taking?"。
By the way, if you suffer from clinical depression or something like that, I'm a big fan of getting。
professional help and finding some medications that might help.。
But this was not that.。
This was like a masking.。
This was like a covering.。
This was a numbing.。
And I said to her, "What are you doing?"。
She said, "Danielle, I don't know what else to do.。
What else am I going to do?。
I'm just like crying all the time.。
Like what am I going to say to people when I'm in these places?。
I'm just crying all the time."。
I said, "I don't know.。
Maybe I'm sad.。
Maybe I'm sad.。
Maybe like get to the place where instead of covering the stuff and numbing the stuff。
and pretending the stuff and getting stuck in these sort of like pretenses of fineness。
that we actually got honest."。
Do you know that hope can't even be hope unless it gets honest?。
Do you know the majority of the Psalms are just David saying, "Do you even care?"。
You know it's okay to be honest with God.。
Do you know actually that real and true discipleship is actually getting to a place where you could。
be honest with your lament, with the brokenness, with the condition of your life?。
Another friend I had, I was playing in a woman's basketball league and she was a councilwoman。
on the city hall.。
You know, she was running for mayor.。
And I was doing some after school stuff with inner city kids and I said to her, "I'd really。
love some help fundraising.。
Do you think you would come?"。
I thought, "This will be good for her image and this will be good for our money."。
I said, "Do you think you could come help me fundraise?"。
And she said, "Well, let me come see the program."。
So she came.。
I showed her around.。
She loved it.。
She said, "I'd be honored to fundraise for you."。
But she said, "I want to be really honest about something."。
She said, "I believe Christianity is for the weak.。
I just want to be upfront about it."。
And I said, "Wow, I'm so glad you understand it."。
And she said, "Come again?"。
I said, "You nailed it.。
Christianity is for the weak.。
And you're looking at one of the weakest of them all.。
Where would I be but for the grace of God?。
Where would I be?。
It's not my crutch.。
It's my wheelchair, man.。
It's my stretcher.。
I've only got Jesus."。
And Jesus got me when I needed Jesus most.。
When I was raging against the world and the world was raging against me and I said, "Do。
I even matter?。
And is God even real?。
And does he even care?"。
And I encountered a God who indeed was real and did care.。
And I remember she sent an email right that night.。
She said, "I didn't mean to call you weak.。
I wasn't trying to insult you.。
I don't mean..."。
I said, "No, you nailed it.。
You got it.。
Sleep tight.。
Don't worry."。
I don't mean I'm not weak on the basketball court, but in general, I'm...。
And back and forth, this flurry of games.。
Finally, she said, "Look, could we meet for coffee?"。
And she had been raised by high-power lawyers.。
She's mayor of the city council.。
She's running a whole program at the school.。
She's just like, all she knows is strength and projection and champion and victory.。
And she meets me for coffee in this coffee shop, and she goes to say hi, but instead,。
she just starts weeping.。
She says, "I'm so weak.。
I'm so weak."。
I'm like, "Oh, thank God.。
Can we just get to the end of ourselves?。
Can we just get to the end of ourselves and the start of God?。
I'm so weak.。
Does God even care?。
Is this even real?。
Could we just be real and honest?"。
You know, it's really interesting.。
I love...。
Part of the thing I love about the story is that Jesus does not rebuke their question.。
He responds.。
He doesn't respond with words.。
He responds with presence, with action.。
He responds to their need, their deepest concern.。
Do you even care if we drown?。
Jesus is like, "Watch this," and responds.。
"Quiet.。
Be still," he says to the sea.。
"Quiet.。
Be still."。
Jesus cares.。
That's the answer to their question, not in a theological textbook, not in a teaching。
time, in the middle of the storms of the boat, where David even says, "I finally figured。
out if I get to the top of the glorious heavens, there God is, and if I make my bed in the。
depths of hell, there God is."。
Does he care?。
He responds.。
And Jesus answers with two questions.。
Do you know that Jesus asked over 323 questions in the Gospels, if you add them all up?。
He was asked 189, and he only answered directly three.。
I was so convicted as a Christian leader, you know, where you come to this place, and。
all we do is give people answers, and all Jesus did was give people questions.。
And the two questions that he says are this, "Why are you so afraid?"。
Now I used to read the questions of Jesus like sarcastic rebuttals, you know, like,。
"Why are you so afraid?。
Where's your faith?"。
And then I progressed to Jesus more like passive-aggressive, like my mom, like, "Are you going to wear。
that?"。
Right?。
Passive-aggressive.。
We're asking questions, but really we're just trying to say the thing, you know?。
And then I actually thought, "You know what?。
I think I might just actually assume that Jesus is really asking genuine questions.。
What if Jesus is really wanting to know?。
What if they're like legitimate questions?"。
But this is a really great...。
I spent years just printing off all the questions of Jesus and asking them.。
They're amazing.。
Like questions like, "Do you want to be well?"。
I just spent a week of my life letting Jesus ask me, "Do you want to be well?。
Do you want to be well?"。
These questions, "Why are you so afraid?"。
I think he genuinely wants to know, "Why are you so afraid?"。
Fear is the currency of oppression.。
Fear is...。
It's a currency, so you get caught up.。
So if fear is motivating you, whatever your decision is, you will either be oppressed。
or you'll be oppressing somebody else.。
If fear is your motivator, it will get you into a currency.。
That's how oppression works.。
It's currency is fear.。
And we live in a currency of fear.。
I mean, all around the world, we've never been so afraid.。
And I feel like part of the formation, the resistance, when Jesus invites us to go with。
him, which is what discipleship is, to cross over to the other side, to respond to the。
cry of the world, one of the questions he asks us is, "Why are we so afraid?"。
And it's a good question because you can't deal with fear if you're not willing to name。
the fear, right?。
You can't deal with fear by denying fear.。
You can't deal with fear by like putting up the, "I am not afraid.。
I am not afraid," and saying it 10 times a day so that finally you're not afraid.。
You've got to deal with fear by actually naming the fear and then inviting a power greater。
than the fear, which the scripture is very clear.。
The power greater than the fear is perfect love, and perfect love is the person of Jesus.。
And Jesus is with them, and he says, "Why are you so afraid?"。
And when you really get honest with this, I mean, why are you so afraid?。
I mean, what are you afraid of?。
When Jesus is inviting you to cross over, when Jesus is disrupting your life, what are。
we afraid of?。
We're afraid of looking like fools.。
We're afraid of losing favor maybe.。
I'm afraid of failing.。
I'm terrified of failing.。
Maybe I'll say the wrong thing.。
Maybe I'll say the right thing.。
I don't know.。
Maybe people will love me.。
Maybe people will hate me.。
I mean, the fears are endless, but getting honest with the fear, why are you so afraid?。
And then realizing, "Ah, in the middle of my fear, here is one who is perfect love,。
who can drive it out, who can drive it out."。
And the second question, in the NIV, it puts it in a weird way.。
It says, the one that we just read, it says, "Have you no faith?"。
The question really in the text is, "Where is your faith?"。
They obviously have faith.。
They're in the boat with Jesus.。
They're going to the other side.。
Three cheers for the disciples.。
They did it.。
You know, they're doing it.。
They're on the journey.。
And again, just for the record, the journey is the point.。
To be like Jesus is the point.。
We're always constantly, "Once I get to the other side, that'll be the point."。
No, the point is to encounter Jesus.。
To be with Jesus, to be honest with Jesus, to ask the questions of Jesus, to have an。
encounter with Jesus.。
That is the point.。
They're living the point.。
And he says, "Where is your faith?"。
I love it.。
"Where is your faith?"。
I would imagine, I mean, I'm just making this up, but I'd imagine some of their faith might。
have been in their own ability.。
They're sailors.。
They've crossed that sea a bunch of times.。
I mean, part of their faith might have been in their own ability, and they're getting。
to the end of that in a real quick hurry.。
Which by the way, the end of yourself is the beginning of God.。
It's a beautiful place to get to.。
The sweet surrender of getting to the end of your own capacity where you realize the。
faith that you had in these things, even your own things, are not going to get you there.。
You're going to need to put your faith in something real.。
Where is your faith?。
You know, it's not about quantity faith, right?。
Jesus told us this.。
It's just like a mustard seed.。
You just need a tiny little bit.。
But locating it and putting that faith in the one who is faithful, that's a work.。
That's a work.。
That's a work of discipleship.。
Locating your faith.。
Where is your faith?。
Is your faith in a political system or an outcome?。
Is your faith in your church's ability to do something?。
Is your faith in your economic outcome?。
Is your faith in the possibility of what it will look like?。
Where's your faith?。
And if you could find your faith and put it, redirect it into the person of Jesus, you。
will be encountering the one who could drive out the fear, who could answer some of your。
deepest questions, and could help you reimagine a life that is full of the promises and the。
purposes of God.。
I was sharing about this camp I was at.。
It was this really religious, boring camp as a kid, a music camp.。
It was literally, it was you snooze, you win.。
That's what I called it.。
And I was there.。
They invited me to come.。
It was like the Bible teacher.。
I was like, "Oh."。
And I went anyway, and it was a disruption.。
And in the middle of this camp, Jesus showed up.。
I can't even describe it.。
It was like the craziest thing I've ever seen.。
The only thing I could think is the drier the wood, the bigger the fire, right?。
And God just showed up, and these kids just started encountering Jesus.。
I remember this one kid was describing what had happened, and it was a testimony night,。
and he grabbed this mic.。
It's a very religious crowd.。
He just grabs this mic, and he goes, "I just, the other week, he said I was at university,。
and I just like, I looked up to heaven, and I raised my fist, and I gave God the finger.。
I said, 'F you, God.'"。
Except he didn't say, "F you, God."。
I'm like giving you a sanitized version.。
He's just like, "F you, God."。
It's just like everyone's like, "Ugh."。
And then the guy just falls to the ground, and he starts to weep and weep, and he said,。
"I didn't know he was real.。
I didn't know he was real.。
I didn't know he was real."。
You just feel the spirit break out across the room.。
"I didn't know he was real.。
He's real."。
And it's the final question of the, the final question.。
It's just love.。
This is like the state of discipleship for the rest of your life.。
You know, it's not like you ever arrive.。
The disciples, in response to this encounter where they've witnessed Jesus, respond to。
them in care, and compassion, and strength, and power.。
He's with them, not against them.。
He's for them.。
When they get honest, and they get past the shallow ideas of like pretense, and what should。
be, and Jesus is challenging them, but in ways that are beautiful, because they can。
start to identify their fear, and they can start to get honest about it, and they can。
start to locate their faith.。
And then they just talk amongst themselves, and they're like, "Who is this guy?。
Who is this guy?。
Holy.。
Who is this guy?。
Oh, this?。
This?。
This?"。
You know, we had a home group at my house.。
I lived in Toronto, and a lot of refugees.。
We had a lot of refugee friends, and they came over, and we just had this like, it was。
mediocre food most of the time, because I was cooking, until I wised up and got some。
of my friends to cook.。
But anyway, we just, but we just, there was enough for everybody, and we loved each other.。
We welcomed each other, and we had this, a friend of mine came who is a recent refugee。
from Sudan, and she joined us.。
And we're a couple weeks into this thing.。
She just kept coming back.。
You know, I met her through the food bank at our church, and we're doing dishes in the。
kitchen.。
And she's, I'm passing her a dish, and she looks at me, and she goes, "What is this?"。
And I said, "That's a dish."。
She goes, "No, not this."。
She said, "What's this?"。
I said, "Oh, this.。
Oh, this is, this is like people who follow Jesus.。
Like, this is like a family.。
This is like a community.。
Like, this is a place where we all love, and serve, and follow Jesus, and like, people。
are welcome here."。
And she goes, "This is, but you," she said to me, "But I'm a Muslim."。
I said, "Oh, are you?"。
She said, "Yeah."。
So, like, "Should I leave?"。
I said, "No, I love you double now."。
"No, like, why would you leave?。
I don't care.。
I didn't know you were," she's like, "I know you didn't know, but like, I've been keeping。
it a secret.。
Like, should I?"。
And I said, "No, like, it's all good, man.。
Are you okay?。
Like, is the food okay?。
Like, should I change the food so that you're more comfortable?。
Like, what do you need?"。
She goes, "No, like, I just didn't think I would be welcome."。
And we're on this a couple of weeks later, she looks at me, and she goes, "Okay, what。
is this exactly again?"。
And in the end, the only answer I had for her in the end, the only answer I had for。
her was, "This is Jesus.。
This is Jesus.。
This person who heard your cry in this, like, little tiny apartment that you're stuck in。
on the other side of the world because you're fleeing for your life, and you're fleeing。
from persecution, and you feel paranoid about everybody, and unwelcome, and you feel unknown,。
and you feel unloved.。
This is the Jesus who heard the cry and brought you to a people to help tell you that you're。
not alone, and that you are beloved, and that God sees all the way through your worst questions,。
and your hardest answers, and all of your fears, and all of your concerns, and actually。
even sees the faith that you have to want something real for your life.。
This is Jesus."。
And she said, "I'll have all of him.。
I'll have all of him.。
I'll have all of him."。
Who wouldn't?。
Huh?。
Who wouldn't?。
If they could only know, if they could only see the invitation, if you could only see。
it.。
Maybe you're here and you just thought Christianity was just a belief system, like we're in competition。
with other religions of the world.。
That's not what it is.。
Christianity is an invitation, a disruption to the status quo to reimagine our lives in。
a world where things are as they should be, where there's more than enough, where the。
lonely are put in families, where there are gardens and wilderness, where there's a people。
who lay down arms and love each other, a place where the grace of God is so radically inclusive。
that it doesn't matter what your background is or what your sin is.。
You could even be a demonically possessed guy living with pigs and Jesus would move。
heaven and earth to get to you and liberate you and love you.。
Who is this man?。
It's Jesus.。
It's Jesus.。
My friend who became the mayor in the end, not only a follower of Jesus but became a。
mayor and the town had such a horrible history of violence against indigenous Canadians,。
you know, just a lot of injustice.。
And she had been so transformed by Jesus that she went from this like strong powerhouse。
lawyer person to this like weeping, weak, like fully alive but also emotionally tapped。
in person and she would just sit in city council and weep and weep and weep.。
And she would start...。
She started a prayer meeting in the city hall of repentance and lament for the violence。
that had been done to the indigenous community and a revival and a reconciliation began to。
start at the center of that town.。
Not because of her strength but because of her weakness, but because of her weakness。
being found in the person of Jesus because she got honest, because she came, because。
she had a genuine encounter, because she heard the cry, because the spirit of God was in。
her hearing the cry, because she saw the disruption and went to the other side and transformation。
happens.。
Don't you want, don't you want that kind of encounter with Jesus and live that kind of。
life?。
Yeah.。
Let's pray.。
You know, I...just before we pray, I feel like telling you my son Judah was really late。
learning to ride a bike.。
He was really careful.。
He had these training wheels on.。
He didn't want to leave them.。
He just...。
I'll be fine, you know, and he's like way too old for this.。
Like a little girl biked by him without the training wheels.。
I was like, "I can't take this anymore."。
So I said to him, "Honey, let's just try it one time.。
We'll just put the training wheels up.。
We won't take them off the bike.。
We'll just put them up and give it a try.。
And if it doesn't work, we'll put the training wheels back down.。
Like just..."。
And he goes, "Okay, I'll give it a try."。
And of course, he just takes off.。
He's more than ready.。
And he comes back, and he just all smiles, and he looks at me.。
He goes, "Mom, I'm totally riding a bike."。
And I said, "I know, honey.。
I saw it.。
I'm so proud of you."。
And he said to me, "Mom, you could totally preach this."。
I said, "Thanks.。
And what do you mean?"。
And he goes, "Just think about it.。
My training wheels were holding me back."。
God, we confess.。
We confess that we're so afraid.。
We have training wheels on training wheels on training wheels because we're so scared。
of falling or failing or I don't know, all of us.。
We have deep questions that we've never even...。
We've never even had the strength to ask.。
We don't even know if it's okay.。
But would you help us be real and to be brave and to be honest and to be real?。
Would you help us to understand that the disruption is really an invitation from heaven to reimagine。
a world and a life that is alive with you?。
And I don't know what it is.。
I just, I feel like there are people here who just need to trust Jesus to take the training。
wheels off.。
And I also just want to say, if you're here and you actually thought Christianity was。
like some religious belief system and not an actual come and follow me from a person。
who is alive and inviting you to come alive in the person of Jesus, then this is your。
moment.。
You are...。
All you need to do is just say, "I'm in.。
Take the invitation.。
I'm coming.。
I'm belonging."。
You know, my friend from Sudan, she's just like, "I'm not leaving.。
I'm coming.。
I want all there is."。
And she's still doing it.。
She's still doing it, experiencing the boundlessness of reimagining her life with Jesus.。
That's it.。
You can do that.。
Just let someone from this church know so we could help you and we could travel with。
you and you would know that you are welcome and you're not alone.。
Not anymore.。
You are welcome.。
You belong.。
You are seen and know.。
God heard your cry.。
God heard your cry and responds.。
And you may be here and you may be in resistance thinking, "Wow, I must have got it wrong because。
if God was with me, this wouldn't be so hard."。
And you just need to be relieved of that false thought.。
God is with you and it's hard.。
And God's with you and it's hard.。
And God's with you and it's hard.。
Relax into the training, the journey.。
God is enough.。
God is alive.。
God is here.。
God is with us.。
So Jesus, we just say thank you and yes.。
Thank you for the invitation to go to the other side.。
And we just say yes.。
Yes to inconvenience.。
Yes to leaving status quo.。
Yes to yikes.。
Yes to we don't know what we're doing.。
Yes to we might fail.。
Yes to we might come against resistance.。
Yes to the storm if necessary.。
Yes to the one that we're scared of on the other side.。
Yes to rejection.。
Yes to pain.。
Yes.。
Because it's yes to you that we're really saying.。
So we say it.。
We say it.。
Even if we tremble, our voices tremble, we say it still.。
Yes.。
Yes to you.。
Yes to the living one.。
Yes to come up here.。
Come up now and see the holy, holy, holy, slain lamb of God.。
Every tribe, every tongue, every nation worshiping the one.。
Yes.。
Let our lives be yes.。
We'll go.。
We'll go to the other side.。
Just take a minute to imagine yourself in the boat.。
Maybe you need to imagine yourself on the shore and Jesus's invitation is like, "Come。
on.。
Let's go."。
Maybe you're in the middle of the sea and you're like, "What on earth?"。
Ask him.。
Ask for him and be amazed.。
He's better than you ever imagined, greater than you could ever even understand.。
He's truer than your deepest fear.。
Jesus, we want to know you.。
We want to follow you.。
We want to encounter your glory.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
1。
Thank you.。
1 Thank you.。
