Good morning, church.。
Good morning.。
Good morning. My name is Justin. I'm one of the pastors here.。
I've seen you guys, but if this is your first time here, everyone watching online,。
I just want to say hi. My name is Justin.。
And we just want to say, those of you who have left Hong Kong recently,。
friends all around the world watching, we miss you here.。
At the same time, I want to welcome friends returning to spend the holidays here.。
You know who you are. I just want to do a special shout-out.。
Now, in this Advent series, we've been looking at different characters from the Christmas story,。
entering their narratives with a bit of biblical imagination.。
And the central question that we are asking ourselves in this season of Advent。
is what kind of false kings are currently reigning in our hearts?。
Because we need to dethrone them.。
We need to recognize what they are so that we could make more room for our true king.。
Actually, speaking of room, if you have a seat beside you,。
could you--can I ask you kindly to move in so that more people who are standing can have a seat?。
And I really appreciate that. Thank you.。
So let me recap where we are right now.。
Last week, Pastor Andrew spoke about the need to dethrone Herod,。
who represents our incessant need to control things and to be the center of attention.。
And last week, Pastor Allison, through the story of Zechariah,。
taught us that doubt can lead us astray, but at the same time,。
doubt is healthy and it is necessary for us.。
Today, we explore in more detail one of the more celebrated and yet highly disputed aspects。
of the traditional Christmas story, where there was no room for Mary and Joseph。
to have baby Jesus in Bethlehem.。
And this resulted in Jesus being born and needing to be born in less than ideal circumstances,。
in a dark, damp stable. And some would even argue that it's a cave.。
Now, many scholars have discussed, and I'm going to summarize for us,。
that the actual issue that Bethlehem had was not a housing crisis,。
but in fact, it was their unwillingness to open up their homes to a pregnant and unmarried woman.。
Through scriptures, we can see that Mary, of course, accepted God's will for her,。
and she meditated upon her heart the message of Gabriel。
and what God is about to do throughout humanity.。
But scriptures also say that Mary was troubled.。
Not just troubled, but she was deeply disturbed.。
She was distressed, she was unnerved, she was anxious,。
because she was carrying the Son of God.。
And also, she was disturbed because pregnancy, outside of marriage,。
in first century Jewish society, was regarded as an absolute horror.。
As a result of her obedience to God, Mary would have become an outcast of society.。
Her reputation would have been deeply tarnished,。
she would have carried personal disgrace and exclusion, literal exclusion from her community.。
And I want to add that this shame implicates not just Mary, but Joseph and their wider families,。
and everyone associated with Mary and Joseph.。
So you can imagine how devastating emotionally and relationally this is on everyone,。
not just Mary and Joseph.。
What becomes more shocking, as if this is not enough,。
Mary and Joseph realized upon arrival, having traveled near and far,。
while pregnant, through dangerous roads, just to get to Bethlehem.。
What was shocking to them is that most of Bethlehem were Joseph's relatives。
who did not open up their house and their homes and their hearts to them.。
Because Bethlehem, in short, did not want to be associated with a woman。
who was believed to be a sinner.。
And next, in the Christmas story, it says that Mary is in birth pangs,。
and of course, baby Jesus is born.。
Church, I want to say that the central characters in today's message。
is actually not Joseph and Mary, but rather the people of Bethlehem.。
Because what lies beneath or behind this famous Christmas story。
is something that all of us can relate to.。
That is something universal and common to all of us in our everyday life.。
So today, I'm going to ask you, as I share, as I preach,。
I'm going to ask you, invite you, to use your imagination with me,。
to exercise some biblical imagination.。
Because I wonder, beyond the shame and stigma Mary's pregnancy brought,。
what other reasons do you think caused the entire town of Bethlehem,。
Joseph's own relatives, to shun them completely?。
To begin, maybe I just want you to remember a recent time。
where you were offended because the people that you sought understanding,。
that you sought friendship and a moment of companion,。
you sought refuge, mutually did not extend themselves to you.。
I just want you to remember, if you can, a recent time and how you felt.。
Last year, I had a solo trip to Fukuoka.。
I haven't traveled by myself in 12 years, so it was a joy.。
I had a week there just to reflect at the end of the year.。
Anyways, one of the things I was looking forward to。
was trying out this highly recommended Japanese-Italian carbonara fusion restaurant.。
I'm not a foodie myself, but when I'm traveling, you just do what locals do.。
One night, I got lost. One day, I got lost.。
I decided not to use Google Maps, and I wandered into this really chic area.。
And lo and behold, guess what?。
This was the restaurant that my friend highly recommended me to try out.。
Now, I know you're going to judge me because I didn't make a booking.。
Once again, I got lost, and I just said, "Hey, I'm on vacation. I'm going to take it easy."。
So anyways, I walked in, and I politely asked, "Is there a table of one?"。
This was at 6 p.m. There were only three parties here,。
and of course, I saw a lot of empty seats, especially a bar with single seats.。
And in their polite Japanese mannerisms, they said, "Sorry, sir. We are fully booked."。
And I thought, "Okay. Clearly, I don't understand that."。
So I took out my Google Translate, and I said, "Hey, I just want to try one of your carbonaras,。
and I'll be out within half an hour. Can I please sit here?"。
And in their uttermost polite Japanese mannerisms, once again,。
they smiled and nodded and said, "Sorry, sir. We do not have any room."。
Now, once again, I don't normally get upset about this stuff, but I was disappointed.。
I was sad. I did feel a little bit rejected because all I really wanted to know was,。
"Why couldn't I have a place at this table?" because there were many spots.。
And I want you just to feel for a second over this trivial matter。
of what it feels like to be denied a place at the table.。
Because for Joseph and Mary, they weren't just denied a place to eat.。
They were denied a place in which they were to give birth to the Savior of the world.。
And how Mary and Joseph were treated by Bethlehem gives us some indication。
that some of the kings that actually reign in our life, they're very subtle,。
and they actually disguise themselves and operate beneath our noses.。
And I think the warning here, a lighthearted warning, is that if we don't dethrone these kings,。
one, we will certainly not be able to make room for what God would like to do in our hearts.。
But two, tragically, like the people of Bethlehem,。
they missed out in partaking in the greatest event in history,。
being orchestrated by the living God because they were too daft to be aware.。
And so before we talk about the hidden kings in the hearts of the people of Bethlehem,。
I want to just lay out a very simple biblical context from Paul and Jesus。
so that we can understand that sometimes these kings is not as easy as,。
"Hey, pray about it. Just give it to God. He'll deal with it."。
That's what we say, but how do you get there in practice? I want to just lay out a foundation.。
So at the very heart of the problem, what we're looking at here is a very human problem,。
is a human propensity to sin.。
And in our sin, we falsely believe that we are kings, that we are actually in control,。
that we have the right to judge what is right and wrong, and to a certain extent, of course we do.。
And within scriptures, there are a lot of warnings that turn us,。
that encourage us to steer away from this deluded thinking.。
For example, in Romans 2, famously, Paul quotes from Isaiah,。
and he famously confronts this false reality,。
and he reminds us that all of us, all of us here, all of us listening,。
we are all not righteous in the sight of God。
because all of us live under the influence, power, and tyranny of sin.。
And a few chapters later, by Paul's own omission, he would say, he would admit,。
he would confess that, "I hate what I do because of the evil that is within my flesh.。
It is no longer that I do it, but the sin within me that causes me to do the most detestable things,。
and I hate that." This is Paul's own words.。
So now I want to tell you what Jesus hated.。
Now, if you read the scriptures, you'll realize how many times he confronts the religious leaders of his day,。
that is, the Pharisees and the Sadducees.。
And what he hated most was the fact that these religious leaders,。
who had a lot of power, prestige, and influence,。
they led the young believers astray because they were self-righteous,。
because they were hypocritical, they did not follow what they taught,。
and above all, they cared more about how religious and spiritual they looked to others。
than the well-being of the people that actually followed them.。
So Jesus hated this.。
And 25 years before Paul talked about the sin that caused him to do what he did not like,。
Jesus emphasized that what made us sinful, what caused us to turn away from the living God,。
is everything that flows from inside here.。
You'll remember in Matthew or Mark, Jesus says,。
"From the core of our hearts, from our very being, comes everything that is evil,。
the intentions, the desires to murder for adultery, sexual immorality,。
our thoughts of stealing, lying, slandering others,。
the desire to do wickedness, to do foolish things,。
the desire for extreme greed for wealth and material gain,。
where our lack of moral restraint comes from.。
We think that we have all the freedom to do whatever we like, envy and of course arrogance."。
So it is upon this foundation of what Paul and Jesus hated。
that I would like to draw out with a bit of biblical imagination。
what the people of Bethlehem failed to dethrone, the kings that they failed to dethrone.。
And so I envision in preparing this message that the kings perhaps that they struggled with。
was their pride, was their tongues, and also was their fears.。
The first king Bethlehem failed to dethrone was their sense of pride,。
because our pride within each of us refuses to be small before God.。
Why should we? We can think, we know what to do, we've done it before,。
our experience tells us that we know better.。
But the danger is that our pride blinds us to see。
that we actually need the same things before a living God.。
We need the same things to survive in this world.。
We need food, we need shelter, we need clothing, we need affection,。
we need welcome and above all we need help.。
And so we forget as humans that because we're all the same,。
we then believe falsely that we know how to treat each other.。
And so I would imagine that it is Bethlehem's pride that led the people。
to ultimately draw their hearts harsh, condemning, and condescending judgment on Mary and Joseph.。
You can imagine what they were thinking.。
They should have known better, no? Why would you have a baby out of wedlock?。
They're not even married yet. Why are they so silly and foolish to do such a thing?。
And church, I want to just ask you to remember, if you can,。
how many times have you and I wrongfully or harshly misjudged our neighbor。
and our brother and sisters when it was never in our place to。
because we didn't actually understand what they were going through inside.。
Bethlehem didn't understand what Mary was going to do for God.。
Bethlehem's pride led them to believe that they were morally and spiritually more superior。
and they thought in their pride and arrogance that they had to hold Mary and Joseph。
accountable for their wrongdoing.。
And therefore, they thought, "Okay, this is how we're going to punish them.。
We are going to turn them away and we are not going to host them。
because once again, they should have known better."。
The second king, Bethlehem, allowed to remain enthroned in their hearts。
is the natural tendency to gossip and to slander them。
because they thought that they had the right.。
So church, imagine if this week today we hear that Mary and Joseph were going to come visit us.。
Can you imagine what kind of conversations we would have individually。
but also as a community when we gather?。
It's like, "Hey, did you hear Mary and Joseph are coming? What do you think?"。
Imagine how much gossip, how we would talk about them behind their backs.。
And as Jesus taught us, it is within our sinful nature to actually enjoy gossip,。
to enjoy slandering and, I mean, based on all the stuff we like watching,。
we actually get some kind of kick out of seeing someone's moral downfall。
because the very need to do this comes deep within our hearts.。
The author of James, in James 3, verse 8-10, I don't think it's on PowerPoint,。
but this is what he says about our tongues.。
He says, "Who can tame the tongue, a restless evil full of deadly poison?。
With the tongue we bless the Lord our Father, we sing praises to Him,。
and with it we curse people made in the image of God.。
From the same mouth comes blessing and curse."。
My brothers and sister, James says, "This ought not to be so."。
In Luke, chapter 6, verse 45, Jesus says,。
"Whether you're having a good day or you're having a bad and terrible day,"。
Jesus says, "out of the abundance of our hearts the mouth speaks."。
So this means that if our heart's intent right now is ill-meaning,。
it's mean-spirited, we have nothing good to say,。
then you can easily imagine how much hurt and harm and wounding our words can cause.。
It is our inability to hold our tongue many times。
that causes the most strife and dissension and hurt within our relationships.。
And scriptures say that Mary and Joseph didn't just endure gossip and slander。
as they approached Bethlehem.。
According to the Gospel of Matthew, it says that they stayed a little longer。
in Bethlehem before they fled to Egypt.。
In preparing for today's message, I was made aware of all the little careless words。
that come out of my mouth, all the little times that I came to you。
and wanting to know how this couple was doing.。
I was secretly really gossiping.。
I was just curious and wanting to know.。
And, you know, thinking back, I just think in the moment when we gossip,。
it feels great.。
But oftentimes, there's instant regret because I realize every little word。
has the power to destroy, to break someone's spirit,。
or our words can build up and encourage someone.。
And I like to think about toothpaste.。
I learned this in marriage prep.。
I thought it's completely useful.。
Our words is like toothpaste, right?。
Once it comes out, you can't force it back in.。
You can't unforget it.。
You can't unhear what someone said about us, and it really hurts us.。
And so this is something that I do personally.。
Before every conversation I have, before every big meeting, I check myself.。
I premeditate, how is my heart doing?。
Because if I am in a bad mood, if I'm cranky, if I'm angry,。
I want to make sure and check what I have to say, whether it's worthwhile,。
whether it's going to be encouraging, or is it just going to be worthless.。
And what really humbles me is that I'm mindful that our words have this power.。
And we as Hong Kong people know how busy we are, right?。
We say this all the time, "From here," and we tell ourselves that.。
And what also keeps my mouth just shut when I shouldn't be talking。
is I don't need more relational problems because of what I say.。
And so that keeps me just meditating.。
So the last king, I feel like Bethlehem allowed to be enthroned in their hearts。
was their own fears.。
It was Bethlehem's own fears that were very self-focused.。
It was self-preserving fears.。
Could it be that the people of Bethlehem feared more for their own reputation。
than the well-being of a pregnant teenage mother?。
Was it easier to say to Mary and Joseph that there was no room in our city。
than to deal with the social shame that would come from hosting them?。
After all, what would the neighboring towns, what would the Sadducees,。
what would the Pharisees think of us as a town if we hosted such sinners?。
And so perhaps it was out of fear that Bethlehem,。
and out of fear of losing their social status, having their reputation tarnished,。
and having their lives interrupted, that they thought it was easier。
to close their hearts to Mary and Joseph than to welcome them.。
The people of Bethlehem's response to Mary and Joseph。
confronts us with a very stark question.。
And it's this question, "Are we too worried about what others might think of us?。
And are we fearful of how our reputations might be tarnished。
if we really lived out what Jesus called us to live out?"。
I want to give you an example here, because I know sometimes we think,。
"Well, we're not Bethlehem. Of course we would know if God came by.。
We would open up our hearts."。
But I want to give you a good example.。
You wake up tomorrow, you're in your classroom, you're at your workplace,。
you're hanging out, you're having a lunch dinner with a group of friends,。
and most of them are not believers.。
Most of them don't know anything about your faith, about Jesus, about God.。
And so at some point in the conversation, they're like,。
"Hey, we had a debate here. Can you answer us your question?。
We have a question for you.。
Are all of us, though we're not believers, are we going to heaven with you?。
Now, I don't know where you are in your theology and what you believe。
about what happens to us after death.。
And 1 Peter, he says in chapter 3, verse 15, he says,。
"Always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you,。
to give the reason for the hope that you have.。
Do this with gentleness and respect."。
So in that moment, will you be worried about what others think of you?。
Will it hinder you from sharing what you understand currently。
about the afterlife and about eternal life and that God has hope for us?。
And this is just one of countless examples that held me back。
from having certain hard conversations in the last many years.。
And there were many times where I feel like I was disobedient to God。
because I was too scared of having my life interrupted,。
having my schedule interrupted.。
But of course, there are many times where I just said,。
"I would overcome this fear and just brave these difficult conversations."。
And in those moments, we experienced God's grace together.。
And one of the biggest lessons I continue to learn again and again,。
week in, week out, is how Satan uses our fears and exaggerates them,。
causes us to do nothing to love our neighbor and sister.。
And he uses our fears to intimidate us like Goliath intimidating David。
so that we would remain useless for God.。
But once again, what really humbles me and what encourages me to have these。
and not let our fears give in is to remember who ultimately,。
who holds the power to transform our hearts,。
who allows us and gives us the courage to overcome our fears。
so that we can do what God has asked us to do.。
So church, I want to recap that with a little bit of biblical imagination。
that the kings that Bethlehem struggled to dethrone was their pride,。
was their gossiping and slandering, and it was their fears that held them back.。
And once again, I want to remind us that the people of Bethlehem were humans。
like you and I, and so we have the same problems, we have the same struggles,。
and therefore we cannot just ignore it, we cannot just justify it away.。
We need to, through our lifetime, figure out how do we dethrone these kings。
that constantly come and subtly manipulate us,。
cause us to lead and be led astray by God.。
Not by God, but by the enemy.。
Ironically, it was Bethlehem's pride, it was their tongues,。
it was their gossiping, it was their hardened hearts。
that caused them to not welcome the only one。
who could actually make them righteous.。
That they missed out on the opportunity of hosting the only one。
that could truly transform their hearts, because they,。
like the Pharisees later on in Jesus' ministry,。
they would judge Mary and Joseph only by the surface.。
The Pharisees and Sadducees would judge Jesus' unusual teaching,。
his unusual, incredible miracles, and say,。
"We want nothing to do with him."。
And by doing so, they missed out completely on the opportunity。
to host the Savior of the world.。
And so I want to propose that perhaps the problem Bethlehem had。
was not a housing crisis once again.。
It was not just their pride.。
It was not just their gossiping and what was inside their hearts。
and their fears, but they were telltale sounds of something little deeper.。
And fundamentally, I think Bethlehem struggled with a welcoming problem.。
Bethlehem had an unwillingness.。
They were unwilling and an inability to show the very welcome。
that God had shown them.。
One of my favorite passages that I often reflect on is Mark 10,。
verse 13 to 16, where Jesus says,。
"Whoever welcomes one such as a child in my name welcomes me."。
This grounds me.。
This keeps me humble, because in Jesus' day,。
this was such a radical teaching, because children in Jesus' day,。
they were literally nobodies.。
They were as good as slaves.。
They did not have status at all.。
Today, our children, they flourish because they have everything.。
They have rights.。
They have privileges.。
They are well loved.。
And so can you imagine how radical this teaching is?。
Jesus is saying to Bethlehem, to everyone who would listen,。
"Treat this stranger.。
Treat this person who is considered by society to be worthless,。
who has no wealth, no reputation, nothing that you would envy them for.。
I want you to treat them like you treat me,。
because this from now on is the way in God's kingdom."。
And so for Bethlehem to not welcome Mary and Joseph,。
even though they may not have known whether they knew or not what was going on,。
the fact that they didn't welcome them was like, in effect,。
them turning away Yahweh.。
And so in this Advent season, Jesus says to us that if we are able to show someone。
that Hong Kong shuns with care and hospitality and grace,。
then we don't render a service and love just to them,。
but we also render it onto Jesus himself.。
How many times did we ourselves wish that we were welcomed。
by those we're seeking grace from in our greatest moment of need and desperation,。
grief and anguish?。
This is a silly thing, but I wonder if someone went back into the future。
to Bethlehem 30 years prior and said, "Guys, guys, guys, guys, please listen to me.。
You guys are about to make the silliest mistake.。
You have to welcome Mary and Joseph."。
I wonder whether Bethlehem would have listened.。
I wonder whether they would have humbled themselves and dethroned all the kings。
so that every house could make room and that they would fight to host Mary and Joseph.。
I often think about us as a church, right, because a lot of us,。
majority of us in this room, we are Christians.。
But just because we're Christians doesn't necessarily mean。
we know how to welcome someone.。
It doesn't necessarily mean that we know how to treat someone.。
And so I wonder in a very sobering way whether we are a welcoming church。
because I hear many things, and I'd rather not hear them,。
but I often do think about if Jesus came in a pregnant mother,。
if Jesus came through a hurting child, would we be welcoming?。
And I say this with seriousness, but I also want to invite all of us today。
to reflect on our lives and how welcoming we are.。
And I want to especially say that if you are in a position of power,。
you have the ability to turn someone away.。
People look to you in your schools, in your workplace, in your homes,。
in your communities, they look to you for encouragement.。
I want you to reflect on today's message because you have the power。
to encourage them, to bless them, but also to turn them away。
and make them feel unwelcome.。
And I say this because, one, we are held accountable to how we welcome。
those in front of us as Christ welcomed us on the cross.。
But also I think the stakes are too high.。
Nowadays we cannot afford for someone to turn away from God。
because we are too much like Bethlehem in the moment.。
Perhaps in a way of closing our time together today,。
I want to share a memory that surfaced for me as I was preparing this message.。
I want to tell you a time that really radically changed me when I was 17,。
a year after I became a Christian.。
I grew up in Canada, I grew up in Toronto.。
I lived a privileged life in middle class.。
There wasn't much poverty. I had everything I needed as a child.。
My parents were amazing to me.。
Schooling was great, great friends, nothing to really complain about.。
So that was my background.。
And so one time, I want to tell you about my friend Walter,。
who is still a very dear friend to me. He's still in Canada.。
And so when we're 17, we went to different schools.。
He said, "Hey, this weekday after school, you want to come downtown with me?"。
where there was poverty, where it's very exciting for a teenager to hang out.。
All the coolest shops. Everything happened downtown.。
And so of course, I would take up his offer.。
And so I said, "Yes, Walter, I'd love to come down to downtown with you,。
have dinner with your friend."。
And so we traveled down together, went downtown, came up the subway,。
and we walked towards the restaurant.。
And I remember asking him, "Hey, is your friend meeting us there,。
or are we going to pick him up or her up?"。
And he said, "Oh, don't worry, they'll show up."。
So anyways, we walked to our restaurant.。
And then suddenly, my friend Walter just stopped。
and spoke with what seems to be a homeless man,。
who I've not seen that much, right?。
And so Walter started talking as though they were--。
they haven't caught up in a long time, and they were just chatting,。
and I was invited in the conversation.。
And at some point, the man got up, and we went to the restaurant together.。
And in that moment, I realized Walter wanted me to join him。
to have dinner with this homeless gentleman.。
And so time went by, had a lovely conversation, we had Taco Bell,。
not great food, but back then it was great.。
Amazing conversation.。
And as a way of wrapping up, Walter's like, "Oh, we need to go home.。
Is there anything else you need from us?。
Can we do anything for you?"。
And the man thought about it and said, "Actually, Walter, I need new trousers."。
So guess what we did?。
We went shopping for new trousers.。
And so then we parted ways, and I only remember two more things.。
One thing I remember, that day Walter's face was beaming from the inside out.。
And two, I remember asking him, "Walter, why do you do this?。
How often do you do this?"。
And Walter, he's just the most subtle guy.。
Even to this day, he wants no attention.。
And I remember him just telling me that this was his way of。
tending to the needs of this world as he can.。
And for me as a new Christian, I didn't read that much Bible at all at that time.。
I was only following what people modeled.。
And so looking back on that day fondly, I realize and I can say before you that。
to love our neighbor, to welcome the stranger, the person that you do not know,。
the person that society shuns, is two sides of the same coin.。
Walter's casual yet intentional welcome, his gracious hospitality to a man he did。
not know at all, was used by God to provide for this man's daily needs,。
but also for a moment of refuge and companionship.。
And this was exactly the kind of hospitality and grace that was denied Mary and Joseph.。
In 1 Timothy 4.12, this was the first scripture that was ever given to me as a Christian.。
1 Timothy 4.12 says, "Let no one despise you for your youthfulness,。
but set an example in speech and conduct, in love, faith, and purity."。
The thoughtfulness, the kindness, the generosity shown by a 17-year-old teenager。
whereby he extended himself over a meal to a stranger in love and in generosity。
is exactly the kind of welcome that Jesus calls all of us to learn to exemplify.。
When I think about Walter, I then think about what is actually needed to truly welcome someone,。
which is actually not much.。
And I can confidently say that this is something that all of us can do within our own capacity.。
As we grow in grace, as we grow within God's grace, as we continue to listen to God's word,。
as we continue to meet in our different communities and pray together and learn。
what it means to walk the Christian life, all of us have to reconcile with this idea。
that all of us have to welcome someone wherever you are placed.。
And this is a joy. This is a privilege.。
And I know--and I want to end with this thought.。
I know all of us are thinking about Christmas time's coming.。
What is the gift that we can give?。
I don't want to sound too cheesy, but I absolutely believe this.。
One of the most needed gifts in this world right now that you can give at any time。
is the gift of welcome that overflows from a gracious heart.。
And I cannot think of any other gift, any other thing that you give to someone。
that has so much potential to transform and to heal someone.。
So, church, can I ask us to stand, and I want to pray for us.。
I don't know if this was a bit too heavy, but in this season of Advent,。
I want to first say that today's message is by no ways a message of condemnation,。
because all of us, in our best days and our worst days, we are like Bethlehem.。
On our best days and worst days, we have fears, we gossip,。
we say things that we don't mean and wish we could take back,。
and we judge prematurely, harshly.。
We do all of that, and we are in a safe place.。
And so I want to pray for us as we stand together with this heart。
that we are not condemned.。
But today's message is one of self-reflection.。
It's a call of warning.。
It's a call to acknowledge that, yes, Lord, we are all under the influence of sin,。
and yes, we do selfish things because it is within the core of our hearts.。
And so, Father, as a church, we want to surrender to you our sinful intentions.。
Father, our hurtful words that condemn and that don't bring peace or edification.。
Father, the way we gossip, the way we enjoy it,。
Father, and the fears that cause us to do nothing for our brothers and sisters,。
Father, we repent of these ways.。
And, Father, we just ask that you would teach us for the rest of our days。
to welcome our neighbor, our brother, our sister, our stranger,。
even our enemy as you welcome us.。
And this is the highest calling, Jesus.。
This is the call and the privilege and opportunity that you invite us to join you in.。
And so, Father, help us in the days ahead to build up,。
to encourage the comfort with our lives, with our welcome, with our words,。
with the resources you've given us.。
So, Holy Spirit, would you give us courage to see what you're saying。
and how you're leading us, Jesus.。
In your name we pray, amen.。
