Hey, it is so good to be with you today here on Vision Sunday.。
I'm so excited to share with you what we believe God has put on our heart.。
And one of the amazing things about being a Christian and a Christian faith is that。
God is not a God who is absent and who is distant, but a God who speaks to his people.。
And so the Apostle John, when he received the vision of the end of all things, he recorded。
some words from Jesus, "Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the。
churches."。
Let me say that again, "Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the。
churches."。
And so this is what Vision Sunday has always been about.。
It's about us receiving what God is speaking to his church in this season.。
It's about us applying and living out this word with faith, with courage that he is giving。
us.。
And so today we're going to share what we believe the Holy Spirit has been speaking。
to us as a leadership, what he has for us in this next season.。
And my heart for us today is that we can be united by the Holy Spirit in this vision that。
God has given us.。
You know, this always is truly the work of the Spirit when this happens.。
And my heart is also that the Holy Spirit will move here among us, that he will inspire。
us and that he will ultimately lead us into this vision together, carrying it out, but。
also getting to experience exciting things that God will do.。
So on that note, I actually would like to pray for us in that way.。
Heavenly Father, I thank you that you are a God who speaks, that you speak to your church.。
And Lord, we want to hear what you say.。
We want to receive what you are speaking to us through your Holy Spirit.。
And I pray today, Holy Spirit, come, unite us around the work that you are doing and。
lead us into the ways that you want us to be part of your work.。
Help us be a church that is led by you.。
I pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Now, to get us started today, I want to need to take you back to 2019, to Vision Sunday。
2019.。
So on that day, Pastor Andrew, he shared with us a vision, what is known as the River Model。
Vision.。
And so here you see a photo of that.。
Actually, that was me taking the photo on that day.。
You see a vast river network covering a large geographical area, which we know is Hong Kong.。
And so part of what God spoke to us in that season was that we needed a shift the way。
that we think about ourselves.。
Instead of thinking about ourselves as a static building in one location, God was inviting。
us to think about ourselves as a river that flows across the land.。
And so this vision includes a heart for justice.。
This vision includes a heart for the lost.。
This vision is about seeing God's river of love permeate every district of Hong Kong,。
touching lives, sharing the gospel message of hope and peace, which we so desperately。
need.。
And so that lies underneath this vision.。
And this is also what led us in 2022 to announce to the church that we are planting a church。
in order to put what we believe the Holy Spirit was leading us to do into action, to receive。
what the Spirit of God was speaking to His church.。
And it's been an incredible journey that many of us have been on together.。
So when we announced that, I remember being with Ivan in an empty auditorium in front。
of a camera, a live stream, because it was still during COVID restrictions.。
And it was in a time when there was a kind of a negative and a depressing mood in the。
city.。
When we felt like everyone was leaving, people were leaving, moving to other countries because。
of COVID restrictions and for other reasons.。
Companies were shifting their headquarters from Hong Kong to Singapore.。
And we sensed that God was calling us to make this prophetic statement, to plant a church。
and through that announce and make, declare and make clear that God is not finished with。
Hong Kong.。
He is at work in the city.。
He is hard as to draw people to himself, to reveal himself to people who are hurting,。
who are lost, who need change, transformation in their lives.。
And so we stepped forward in faith.。
And it was scary at times because it doesn't exist.。
But God is so faithful.。
And so we give God praise for all that He's done.。
In 2023, we had our soft launch.。
In January 2023, October, we had our first Cantonese and English service in this building.。
God is so good.。
It's amazing.。
And I know Ivan and I, we got like special front row seats to our amazing God that we。
serve.。
Now one of the things that is beautiful about that is that God speaks to us as one church.。
We are one church in Wanchai, in Yuen Long.。
Our northern metropolis.。
And He gives us this one broad vision for us as a church family.。
But then He invites us in these different occasions to work out what this vision looks。
like.。
And it will express itself in different ways.。
And to celebrate this oneness and this unity that we have, I'm going to invite Pastor Andrew。
to share with the video this broad vision that we sense God is speaking to us in this。
season.。
And then afterwards, Pastor Ivan and I, we're going to come up and we're going to share。
with you how we are discerning that we are led by the Spirit to implement this vision。
here in Yuen Long.。
So let's watch the video from Pastor Andrew.。
Well, hey, everyone in Yuen Long.。
It is such a privilege to be with you here at Vision Sunday 2026, albeit via this video。
and not actually in person with you.。
I'm probably preaching live right now in Wanchai.。
But it's great to be able to be with you and share some thoughts and feelings that we have。
as a leadership around the vision for the Vine, both here in 2026, but also in the years。
ahead.。
Now, you might remember that back in 2025, Pastor Tim told you that the church was in。
a season that we called uncharted.。
That we were in this idea that we were like a sailing ship that had moved out from safe。
harbor and was going out to explore uncharted territory, uncharted waters.。
And we said last year that that was going to be a season of discovery, a season of really。
having to trust in the leading of the Holy Spirit, a season of not necessarily knowing。
exactly where we're going to end up, but listening and discerning and being led by him as our。
guide.。
Now, as we're entering into 2026, we're sensing that that season continues, that he's still。
at work in us saying, "This is uncharted and I'm still moving upon you.。
And you're not going to have all of the answers, but just trust me as you move forward."。
Now as a leadership last year, we were praying, "Okay, God, we know that we're in that season,。
but we're also wanting as a church to make sure that we're fit for purpose, that we're。
structured in a way that we're catching everything that you want us to do as you move us into。
this uncharted waters time."。
And so as we began to pray that, we actually were reminded of the original picture that。
God gave us in this uncharted season last year.。
You might remember it was a picture of a sailing ship and that sailing ship being out there。
on those waters.。
And as God reminded us again of that sailing ship, he said something very specific to us.。
He said, "Look, my wind is blowing against you.。
My word, my spirit, it's at work blowing the vine forward.。
Your responsibility is not the wind, but you do have a responsibility.。
Your responsibility is to put the sails up that can catch the wind to move the church。
forward."。
In other words, we don't direct the wind, but we can adjust our sails.。
We can be a church that's listening and discerning, knowing what the spirit is doing and doing。
our best to put up the sails to catch that wind that is blowing against us.。
And we felt quite strongly that if we don't do this, we're really going to be a little。
bit like what Paul describes in Ephesians 4, which is where we get the vision of our。
church growing big people from.。
In Ephesians 4, he says these words, "If you are not preparing people for the works of。
service and building up each other in unity and maturity in the wholeness of the wholeness。
of Christ, then you will be like a ship being blown around on every wave of teaching."。
And that's not what we want here at the Vine.。
We don't want to be a church that is getting pushed around here and there, kind of almost。
dependent on the currents of the water rather than the wind of the spirit that's blowing。
against us.。
So as we prayed into this as a leadership, we worked out that there were four sails that。
we need to put up and adjust in order to catch the wind that is blowing by the spirit on。
the Vine.。
And so here at Vision Sunday 2026, we want to tell you about these four sails.。
This is not the total picture of everything that is happening.。
This is not the destination that the Lord has taken us to.。
That's still uncharted.。
But these are the sails that we're going to put up to make sure we're capitalizing on。
the wind of His spirit that is blowing at this time.。
So let me explain to you what the first sail is, the one that we're going to put up and。
adjust.。
It is the presence of the Holy Spirit.。
Now this might not be a surprise to you, but this has always been a fundamental focus for。
the Vine since our very inception some 30 years ago.。
We've always been a church that's leaned into the reality of the Holy Spirit.。
But we feel in this new season that the Lord is saying to us even more that we need to。
focus on the priority of the Holy Spirit, focus on His presence amongst us, and focus。
on the ministry of the Spirit, what He wants to do, whether that's in our gatherings, whether。
that's in our small groups, whether that's across the breadth of all of our ministries.。
So one of the things that we're going to be focusing on in the year ahead is really making。
intentional room, intentional space within our gatherings and our small group communities。
and all of our ministries to allow the Holy Spirit to do what the Holy Spirit wants to。
do, to create that intentional room for Him to come and minister to us, to prioritize。
His presence and to allow the Holy Spirit to come and speak.。
That's the way that we grow, it's the way that we change, and that's the way that He's。
going to move us into the church that He longs for us to be.。
Just a little while ago we were having a worship and prayer night here in Wan Chai, and as。
I was just really allowing the Holy Spirit to speak to me, I saw a picture.。
And it was a picture of a coffee machine, like the coffee machine that you guys have。
right there in the lounge in Yuen Long.。
And the coffee machine was dripping, just little drips of coffee.。
And as I was looking at this, I asked the Lord, "What is going on here?。
It seems like the coffee machine is broken."。
And He said, "Look, the coffee machine represents my spirit and the way in which my spirit is。
moving on the vine.。
Right now, it's like I'm just dripping little bits of my spirit upon you as a church.。
My heart is that I want the coffee, if you will, to flow.。
I want my spirit to flow, but right now it's just a little bit, it's dripping."。
And I said to the Spirit as I was getting this, I said, "Why only dripping?。
Why not flowing fully?"。
And He said, "Well, there's no cup underneath to catch the pour."。
And I realized when I saw the picture of the coffee machine that there wasn't actually。
a cup underneath it.。
And so I said to God, "Well, what is the cup?"。
And God said this, and I found it very personally challenging, and I think it's something challenging。
for us as a church community.。
He said, "The cup is trust, that in order for me to flow my spirit and the passion that。
I have for it to flow, there's going to have to be an increased level of trust.。
Trust in me, trust in the Spirit by both the leadership across both the Vinewanchai and。
Yuen Long, as well as our elderships in both locations, but also individually, us, you。
and I, we're going to have to be open to trust the work of the Spirit more and more in our。
lives.。
And as we build trust, the Spirit is going to flow."。
So that's the first cell, presence of the Holy Spirit, ministry in the Holy Spirit,。
and prioritizing that presence in our lives.。
Here's the second cell.。
It is radical discipleship.。
And if you think about it for a moment, those two things flow from each other.。
When the work of the Spirit is more and more at work amongst us, when we're being changed。
and transformed, convicted of our sin, receiving inner healing through the work of the Spirit,。
then the most natural thing is that we will grow in discipleship.。
We will, like our vision says in Ephesians 4, become more and more like Christ Jesus.。
And so our second cell that we're going to put up and adjust is radical discipleship.。
And it's going to be a strong call to us as a church community to really position ourselves。
to live for Jesus in our city in this time.。
We know that the Lord loves Hong Kong so much, and we know that Hong Kong is in a pivotal。
time of its history.。
And really the challenge the Spirit is bringing to us is, is the Vine going to be a church。
of faith, hope and love in the years ahead?。
Or are we going to shrink back into our own self-preservation and our own self-concerns?。
Are we willing to stand up and stand out?。
Or are we going to shrink back and fade out?。
And this call to radical discipleship is a call to ensure that we as a church community,。
both individually and corporately, can continue to be a church of boldness, a church of courage,。
and a church of Jesus, revealing Jesus to the city around us.。
As we prayed about this last year as a leadership, we actually heard really a sense in the Lord。
that there were some things that He wanted us to do in this area of discipleship.。
And we've kind of put a document together that we're calling the guiding principles.。
These are principles that we sense that the Spirit is saying to us that will shape our。
discipleship not just in 2026, but in the years to come.。
Now there are five elements to this guiding principle.。
And you're going to be hearing a lot more about this in the months ahead as we teach。
more directly on this in our services across the breadth of both Wonchai and Yuen Long.。
But let me introduce you, first of all, to these five things.。
They are as follows.。
Number one, surrendered to Scripture.。
This idea that the Bible needs to shape everything we do in life.。
Number two, priority of presence.。
Again, leaning into the reality of the Holy Spirit and His work in our lives.。
Number three, centered on Jesus.。
This focus that we have of making Jesus the priority in everything we do.。
Number four, focused on renewal.。
The passion that we have to see God's heaven come to earth.。
And that passion being expressed in multiple ways through the missions and justice work。
we do in our city.。
And finally, number five, rooted in relationship.。
Community is so important across what we do.。
And one of the things that I really want to honor you guys in Yuen Long with is the strength。
of community that I've seen in all the times that I have visited you on Sundays.。
There is a beautiful sense of community that you're building in Yuen Long.。
And being rooted in relationship, having people that know us, that we're accountable to, that。
we're walking with, is one of the most powerful ways that we grow in Christ Jesus.。
So those five guiding principles are going to be fundamental things that will shape the。
life of the Vine in the years ahead.。
And like I say, you'll be hearing more about those from Pastor Tim, Pastor Ivan and others。
in the months ahead.。
So first cell, Holy Spirit.。
Second cell, radical discipleship.。
Here's the third cell we feel to put up and adjust.。
And we're calling it bearing witness.。
And once again, it flows from the movement of the Spirit, a more radical focus of discipleship.。
And we are being sent out as Jesus followers into the spheres of influence that we have。
around us.。
This is what we mean by bearing witness.。
We're drawing that term from that moment where Jesus in Acts chapter 1 speaks in His resurrected。
body to the disciples.。
And He says, "You're going to go and be my witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and。
to the ends of the earth."。
The actual Greek word that Jesus uses for witness there is the word martyrs.。
It's like this idea of giving the wholeness of ourselves, everything that we are, to spreading。
the good news of the gospel.。
So this third cell of bearing witness is critical for us.。
You know, it's one thing to receive more of the Holy Spirit.。
It's one thing to be more radically discipled in Jesus.。
But if we're not taking that good news and sharing it in our spheres of influence, then。
really we're just a holy huddle that's kind of beefing ourselves up, but not actually。
transforming the place that we've been planted in.。
And I know that you guys have such a heart to reach out to Yuen Long and reach out to。
the people around your area.。
And this is what bearing witness is all about.。
And it's going to be driven by two focuses, evangelism and justice.。
The sense that we want to share the good news of people.。
We want to see people come into the kingdom of God.。
A recent survey that we did here in Wanchai showed us that only about 9% of the people。
that come to Wanchai were saved through the ministries in Wanchai.。
That means the majority of our church were already believers in Jesus before they joined。
the vine.。
We have a passion to make sure that that number increases.。
And over the next five years, I'm praying and believing that that 9% will change to。
something more like 25%.。
That a quarter of our people have come to faith amongst the ministries and the work。
of Wanchai.。
And we believe the same for Yuen Long.。
I know that Pastor Tim, Pastor Ivan and the team there have such a passion for evangelism。
and to see people come to Jesus.。
And so we believe that that's going to be a big thing in the years ahead.。
And alongside of that, not just sharing the good news, but living the good news.。
Being people of the good news.。
And that's justice.。
How do we move more within the spheres of justice in society?。
How do we live for God's heart for justice?。
In the ways in which we work in our workplaces, in the ways in which we manage our families。
and be with our families, in the relationships that we have in our lives.。
How do we stand up more and more for the vulnerable and the marginalized in our cities?。
How do we do that with faith, hope and love and the courage that God is putting upon us?。
So justice remains central to who we are.。
So cell one, Spirit of God.。
Cell two, radical discipleship.。
Cell three, bearing witness to evangelism and justice in the year ahead.。
The final cell, which is one that I'm really excited about, is a cell of church planting.。
The Lord has been speaking to us for quite some time, as you well know, about church。
planting and Yuen Long is the beautiful result of that spirit and vision that God has put。
upon us.。
You guys were our very first church plant and over the last three and a bit years that。
Yuen Long has been active.。
We've seen such beautiful growth in your community, both within the Cantonese and the English。
services.。
And we know that there's more growth ahead that I'm sure Pastor Tim and Ivan are going。
to talk to you about.。
But one thing that we know is that the Lord is saying that the church planting was not。
just about starting Yuen Long.。
That was just the first of what we believe will be a number of church expressions in。
our city.。
And you've already heard the exciting news that in 2026, we will be planting a new church。
in the Northern Metropolis area, specifically in Shung Shui.。
And we're actually in the process right now of actually securing a location for us to。
begin our ministry in Shung Shui.。
But beyond 2026, we believe that there's going to be an even more of a growth of church planting。
in different areas and different parts of the city.。
And although right now we don't know where they will be, we know that the Lord is saying。
that Wan Chai, Yuen Long and Northern Metropolis are just three of what might be four, five,。
six different church plants around Hong Kong.。
And the vision in the future is that as we plant these churches, they will begin to work。
together as a network of Vine churches in Hong Kong, driven through a relational leadership。
together.。
And so this is a new model for us here at the Vine, whereas right now it's just Wan。
Chai and Yuen Long.。
In the future, there'll be a network of churches with relational leaders working together to。
see the gospel truly transform our city.。
So in a very quick way, those are the four sails that we're putting up to make sure that。
we're catching the wind that the Lord is blowing amongst us.。
We don't want to be kind of pushed back and forth by every wave of expression or teaching.。
We don't want to be adrift on the currents of the world.。
We want to make sure we're heading in the direction that Jesus wants us to head in.。
His wind is blowing.。
It's time for us to adjust our sails.。
Well, guys, it's been such a pleasure to be with you today on Vision Sunday 2026 to share。
a bit of our heart as a leadership for what the Lord is doing amongst us and get excited。
for what's going ahead.。
And I'm going to hand back now to the team there in Yuen Long.。
They're going to take you through what really is their heart for bringing expression to。
this in your specific community.。
And I'm excited that I'll get a chance to be with you, I'm sure, in a few weeks' time。
and connect with you guys personally.。
But I hope you're excited.。
I hope you have a sense of what the Lord is doing amongst us.。
And we really want to pray that the Lord would move powerfully to shape the Vine to be the。
right church that He needs it to be to serve the city that we so love.。
God bless everyone.。
Isn't that exciting?。
Yeah.。
Yeah.。
Thank you.。
So exciting.。
We are raising our sails to catch the wind of the Spirit.。
We are raising our sails so we can be the church that God is calling us to be in the。
season.。
Now what does it look like for the Vine Yuen Long to raise its sails?。
Well before I go into details, I think it's important to say this is a five-year vision.。
So of course there will be many phases and times of implementing and also communicating。
with you how we're doing that.。
But we want to share four ways of how we want to get started.。
So the first sail that we want to raise is the church planting sail.。
So let me tell you a little bit more about that.。
We, as we've mentioned, we are the first church plant of the Vine.。
And this has been so exciting to experience how God has put something on our heart and。
then led us in working it out.。
But one of the things that is important with that is when we announced that, God actually。
gave us a vision of what this church will look like three to five years down the line.。
And so in 2022 we stood in front of the church and we said that we picture a church that。
is sending out 50 people to plant a new church.。
And so we believe that we're not called to be a dead end.。
We're called for the river to keep flowing through us.。
We are called to be a church that plants churches that plant churches that plant churches that。
plant churches.。
Because we want the river to flow and we want the gospel message to be carried forward to。
people all over Hong Kong.。
We want people who don't know Jesus to come to know Jesus, to find life in Jesus.。
We want justice and mercy to be worked out by God's people in our community.。
And so we don't want to be a dead end, but we want streams of living water, rivers flowing。
from us.。
And so we picture ourselves in three to five years time, the planted church perhaps in。
Tinchai Wai, maybe in Toon Moon or wherever else the Holy Spirit leads us.。
But there's something important that I need to say that is required in order for us to。
do that.。
And that is right now we receive 40% support from YCHAI.。
We're not financially self-sustaining at this time.。
And for us to move forward into this vision, to be able to freely do that, to plant churches,。
we need to move towards financial independence.。
So one of the things that I want to ask you today, if this is your home church, if you。
are blessed by this church, if your family is blessed and encouraged in faith in this。
church, I want to invite you to pray and to simply ask God, "God, what is it that you。
are inviting me to give?"。
And right now I'm talking about actually regular tithes and offerings.。
So the thing that we give regularly.。
And I just, I trust that God will speak and lead you in that.。
And my heart in this is that people can experience what you are experiencing here, that they。
can have a faith community in their location where people come to know Jesus, where people。
are encouraged, where people experience the presence of the Holy Spirit and find healing。
in God and in community.。
Part of being a Christian, it's always our heart that we think of others.。
So this is our way of thinking of others.。
So right now I want to hand over to Ivan who will continue sharing with us.。
Wow, I believe that this is team height, right?。
So the second seal, let's talk about bearing witness.。
Last year we announced in the Vision Sunday, the Uncharted Project, that we are investing。
in the next generation, age 18 to 34 years old, young adults.。
The Uncharted Project, we announced, and before you all with our puzzle team, we talked about。
this.。
We said our goal is to build a community out of which a new model, a new fresh expression。
of a first Sunday service.。
Through this, this is welcoming and helps this generation to connect to God and reach。
each other.。
We believe that this new model of a first service will not only attract young adults,。
but also anyone who will enjoy a different vibe and format to encounter the presence。
of God.。
In the past year, God led us to reach out to over a hundred young adults.。
About 40 of them, we can see the picture, beautiful picture of a group of young adults.。
They gather together in the afternoon here.。
Over 40 of them, like highly committed themselves to connect each other.。
Over 20 of them, they commit highly to serve and share life together.。
Many of them found that here is their new spiritual home to start their new spiritual。
journey.。
We are encouraged to see how they are serving life.。
They serve each other in a different time, different vibes of gathering.。
The serving team amazingly hosts the bilingual gathering along with the leadership of Pastor。
Chapman.。
During that uncharted season, they gave extraordinary effort and brought a lot of beautiful fruit.。
Over the year as a leadership, we discern what God leading us to the next page, next。
step.。
We feel that we have to invest deeper and wider to the community that God bring it to。
us.。
So how we can serve this group of people God brought to us is using the heart language。
with them.。
So we would like to announce that we are going to move from bilingual model right now to。
upcoming Cantonese afternoon service.。
This year in June, we will launch our first service in Cantonese.。
It isn't just about logistic, it's about evangelism.。
It's about creating space for the lost to come home.。
But we cannot do it by our own.。
We cannot do this alone.。
We need pioneers.。
We have a group of young adult.。
They're willing to use their give time energy for the sake of God's kingdom.。
But we need more people to say, "Yes, I will step into the gap.。
I will join together to launch the first service for the lost."。
We need more people to encourage, to endorse, to empower the younger generation leadership。
to bring impact to the city.。
So we will have an info section on 29th March at 2.30 p.m. here for how you can involve。
in supporting the launch of our first service.。
If you want to bear witness to this city, share good news to the vulnerable and the。
marginalized alongside with our young generation in the first service, I encourage to pray。
for it.。
And then you can join our info section.。
Other than that, I will share more about our heart of the first service with you all next。
week.。
So the first seal is radical discipleship.。
In the video, Andrew mentioned Ephesians 4 where we drive our church vision, growing。
big people from.。
Let's look about Ephesians 4, 11 to 14.。
It says, "So Christ himself gave the apostle, the prophet, the evangelist, the pastor, the。
teachers to equip his people for works of service so that the body of Christ may be。
built up until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the sons of God and。
become mature, attending to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ.。
Then we will no longer be infants, tossed back and forth by the waves and brought here。
and there by every wind of teaching and by the cunning and strifling of people in their。
deceitful screaming."。
Notice that Paul is saying here, maturity in Christ is not an individual project.。
It's a together project, to the body to be built up together.。
We reach unity together.。
We attain the fullness of Christ together.。
In the video, Andrew talked about those five guiding principles.。
The truth is that those principles won't take wood on Sunday service like this.。
They will take wood when we are in community.。
We share life together.。
We pursue Jesus together.。
So church, if we don't pull up the first sail of radical discipleship, we will drift on。
the wave of the ocean water, like being led by the wind of the Holy Spirit.。
And if that happens, we don't become mature in Christ.。
We will just remain as what Paul just mentioned here, called infants.。
So in the light of this, we are focusing on starting new community groups this year.。
Our desire is for everyone here to really have the community group, the spiritual community。
to journey with, to pursue Jesus together, and to love and serve the leaders together.。
We will have an info section for potential new CG leaders, community group leaders, on。
March 8th at 1, right after our service.。
In the info section, Pastor Tim and me will share more how you can involve, what is involved。
in leading a community group, and what is the process of becoming a community group。
leader look like.。
You can sign up by scanning the QR code.。
We trust that God is stirring and moving some of you here to step up to be the community。
group leader, so that we can walk alongside together, to be mature together, to share。
life and faith together, so that we can catch the wind of the Holy Spirit to help us to。
be a community living radically for Jesus in the city.。
So I would like to pass the time back to Pastor Tim.。
Thank you, Pastor Ivan.。
I don't think you'll need it.。
You know, I'm so excited about the third service.。
This was really a discernment process, but we believe that God is at work, he's moving。
with his spirit, and he's leading us to launch the service in Cantonese.。
So we're super excited about that.。
And I also just want to share that it's interesting as this need for community groups has been。
on our heart, actually several of you have stepped up and expressed interest, whether。
that's in hosting a group or leading a group already.。
But I do want to encourage you, even if you're not sure, just come to the info session.。
We'll discern together how God is leading you in that, and if it's the right thing,。
we'll move ahead.。
And if it's not, that's okay too.。
Okay?。
Well, we must now talk about the fourth sale, which is the priority of the presence of the。
Holy Spirit.。
Now for us, our heart is that we can create space where people can experience the presence。
and the ministry of the Holy Spirit in our gathering.。
And we feel especially led to do that more during and through our worship time.。
And I want to take a moment and just honor all of you who've served on production and。
worship team.。
Actually a lot of time and energy goes into that.。
So they go here Thursday nights usually to rehearse, and then Sundays they're here for。
both services leading.。
Then a lot of times there's other trainings and things, maybe even involved in alpha with。
worship or with prayer meeting.。
Thank you.。
That's what I was searching for.。
I even knows.。
All right.。
Or with prayer meeting.。
So it really is a lot.。
And I want to honor especially Nikki, who's right here, and Rosalyn, who is somewhere。
here as well.。
And I know also that right now we're a little bit in a hanging without somebody in our production。
team as a leading, but Justin used to lead it.。
So thank you so much for faithfully leading and building that.。
But with moving towards a third service, we're really getting to a point where this is just。
growing bigger and bigger.。
And having an afternoon service, you basically need a completely different team.。
So this is a big deal.。
So for us, we feel like to truly prioritize the presence and the ministry of the Holy。
Spirit.。
For us to fan and to flame all the giftings and the talents and the creativity that is。
here among you, that we need dedicated leadership.。
So it's time, church, for us to hire a worship pastor.。
Someone who can develop our teams and deepen our collective pursuit of the Holy Spirit.。
And I want to share a little bit from me personally.。
When I first came to the Vine, I was a man who was grieving, who wasn't functioning fully.。
I experienced loss of relationship, loss of job, loss of home.。
And I was just finding the ground underneath my feet when I came to the Vine church.。
And I have to say, a lot of healing really happened during worship.。
Every Sunday in the Vine, I had tears.。
And when I say every, I do really mean every.。
I had tears streaming down my face.。
And these were not tears of sorrow, but these were tears of the work of the Holy Spirit.。
Because he was working and mending what was broken in my heart.。
He was ministering to my pain.。
And I can really say that I experienced the ministry of the Holy Spirit.。
That I was sitting in God's presence during these times.。
There's something when you just abandon yourself in worship, like we did earlier.。
Wasn't that beautiful?。
Right?。
We're praising God, and we're just coming with all ourselves and whatever's going on。
before him.。
And somehow when we worship and connect with God with our emotions, it lets our guard down.。
And we just make space for the Holy Spirit to minister to us.。
And so I experienced healing.。
And it was amazing.。
And I know that for many of you, I've heard stories of you coming in here and there being。
tears during worship.。
And the Holy Spirit ministering to you.。
So my heart is that we can build on that, on all the amazing things, how the team has。
facilitated that.。
My heart is that everyone who steps into the Vine Church can experience the presence and。
the ministry of the Holy Spirit.。
A lot of times we're tired, we're exhausted.。
We just feel like we're going through motions.。
And we can't make ourselves well out of our own strength.。
But it is when we encounter the living God, when the living God reveals himself by his。
spirit to us and speaks to us who we are, who he is, that he is the father that loves。
you, that you are not abandoned, that you are not forgotten, that he is your grace,。
that he is your strength, that he is with you.。
You know, it's in those times when we are filled with the spirit, you know, that we。
truly are strengthened, renewed, and that God can lead us out of those difficult places.。
And so we feel led in the season as we're raising the sail of the presence of the Holy。
Spirit.。
We feel led to do that by hiring a worship pastor to develop us and grow us and also。
lead us in these times in there and to equip us as a church in that.。
So I'm so excited about that.。
Now there it is, four sails, church planting, bearing witness, radical discipleship, and。
the presence of the Holy Spirit.。
And so the way we're going to raise the sail and be able to receive the wind that the Holy。
Spirit is blowing and the flow with the Holy Spirit, to partner with the Holy Spirit in。
what he's doing, you know, is by investing in these four areas.。
And so there's four ways that you're giving today on Vision Sunday where we really come。
behind what we sense God is inviting us to do.。
And we ask to give into that, to sow into that above and beyond our normal tithes and。
offerings.。
And so what your investment does is first, it helps us to ready ourselves to plant church。
in three to five years' time.。
So that's church planting.。
Your giving today helps us to bear witness through a younger generation, through the。
third service, and to reach a generation that, as we shared before, statistically where Hong。
Kong has one of the highest rates of nuns, religious that are nun-affiliated, and it's。
increasing.。
And we want to see that changed.。
And then the third way you're investing by giving into this vision is to help us facilitate。
more community groups.。
And actually even by that, just by people stepping up, you're helping us with this vision.。
So that together, we can pursue Jesus and this radical call of discipleship in our lives.。
And that we can grow in faithfulness and in maturity in our faith.。
And then finally, it's through your giving that you allow us, that the fan and the flame,。
all the gifts and talents that are musically here, to prioritize the presence of the Holy。
Spirit and the ministry of the Holy Spirit through hiring a full-time worship pastor.。
So church, there we have it.。
Those are the four ways today we're asking you to help us raise the sails and catch what。
the wind of the Spirit is doing and blowing on us.。
And the beauty of it is we get to do this together.。
And it doesn't matter how much you give today, whether it's a little or a lot, what is important。
is that we all are part of this, that we are unified and moving ahead in this vision.。
And so this is the kingdom investment that it takes to step forward in faith to what。
we believe God has been speaking to us.。
This is the investment it takes to ready ourselves to move forward and be led by the Spirit.。
So I want to ask you right now, I want to have a time of prayer.。
So I actually want to invite the worship team to come up.。
As I was sharing, as Ivan was sharing, as Andrew was sharing, I believe the Holy Spirit。
was stirring and moving already.。
And I want you to just take a moment to prayerfully reflect on which one of these four sails,。
church planting, bearing witness, radical discipleship, the presence of the Holy Spirit,。
which one of these four sails excited you and you felt the Holy Spirit move and stir。
you?。
And I actually want to ask you to pray over that part of our vision for us as a church.。
Right now, to pray that God will fan us in the flame and that these things can unfold.。
So let's do this right now as the worship team gently plays over us.。
And in a minute or two, I'm going to pray over us.。
So let's pray right now.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
