Church, I wanna start out by asking you a question.。
When was the last time that God asked you a question。
that totally floored you?。
A question that so completely caught you off guard?。
The type of question that just because He asked you,。
you already know what the answer is,。
but it still deeply challenges you.。
Early one morning at a breakfast in 2012,。
God asked me one of those questions.。
And as I was listening to the speaker that morning。
share his journey to faith, I was a 26 year old.。
And as much as a 26 year old can,。
I thought I had a pretty good plan。
for the rest of my life, right?。
I was working in finance, I was dating the girl。
that was about to become my wife.。
And over the next 30 years, I had planned。
to build my resources, to build my relationships,。
to build my connections to a point that when I hit 55,。
I could turn that back around。
and invest it into God's kingdom.。
In reality though, I was sitting in that chair。
completely oblivious to the bomb。
that God was about to drop on me.。
Now, I had been shaping my plan。
for a couple of years at that point, right?。
It wasn't like the back of a napkin type of plan。
that you do when you sit down at a cafe.。
Now, I see I had a two year plan,。
and that two year plan was going to go。
into a five year plan.。
And that five year plan would then set me up。
for the 30 year plan, okay?。
I was pretty confident, it was the long game short,。
but God was gonna support this idea。
because I was doing it for Him.。
Now, the speaker at that breakfast,。
he and I had something in common, right?。
We both thought that the most impacting way。
that you could get society to see the church。
was to create something so extravagant。
that when they laid their eyes on it,。
they couldn't help but come running to the church。
to learn more about the God that we serve.。
That perspective is what made hearing the question。
that God asked me so much harder to hear.。
It wasn't just because it caught in a doubt,。
the plan that I had, it caught into doubt。
the actual purpose that I had, I thought for my life.。
Now, I expect some of you are probably thinking,。
what is that question that he's talking about?。
I'd imagine some of you are probably thinking,。
well, if that question has upended two people's lives。
already, maybe I don't wanna hear what that question is,。
but I'm gonna tell you anyway, all right?。
But I will say this, if there is any upending to happen,。
we're gonna do that together, all right?。
I won't take responsibility for it,。
but I will be with you as you walk through that.。
Does that sound good?。
- Yes.。
- All right, well, this is it, all right?。
This is the question that God asked me,。
which really has gone on to define over the last 10 years,。
what it means for me to live missionally.。
He asked me this question,。
"Nathan, would you be satisfied with me。
"if all I ever had for you to do in this life。
"was to love the person next to you?。
"If I stripped away all of the plans, all of the ideas,。
"all the desires that you have to change society,。
"to give people the opportunities。
"that you think that they believe,。
"would you still be satisfied with me?。
"Instead of the large-scale impact that you wanted to see,。
"you know, the unraveling of unjust systems that happen,。
"instead of like bringing large amounts of people to me,。
"if all I called you to do was love the person next to you,。
"would you be satisfied with me?"。
Church, I'm gonna be honest with you,。
that question hit me like a freight train.。
Yes, and everybody can just turn around。
'cause this is definitely not water.。
Thank you.。
It's the 11th, so if my voice goes,。
you guys are getting the best of it, all right?。
So I answered that question at that point in time。
because I figured, you know,。
that God already knew what was happening in my heart.。
There's probably a reason。
he asked me that question anyway, right?。
So I answered it as you should, with honesty,。
and my reply to God was this,。
no, I don't think that's enough.。
'Cause you see, in my mind,。
there was too much pain in society, right?。
There was way too much brokenness.。
There was too many people suffering。
from physical and spiritual issues.。
And the church, we as Christians, we had only just,。
we haven't even begun to grasp what it meant for us。
to be able to reach out to them and meet them in their need.。
Right, I believed that if there was 7.8 billion people。
on this earth, right,。
and if 31% of us identified as being Christians,。
and then I took a really conservative one in five。
of that 30%, that would give us 480 million people.。
And if there was 480 million people。
who honestly believed in the full authority of God。
and the power of the Holy Spirit,。
then we should be seeing on such a large scale。
of people's lives being transformed。
and society turning to Jesus by the masses, right?。
The church should literally be barnstorming。
across the world, knocking people out。
with the transformation that can only come。
through the gospel, right?。
That was the mindset that I had.。
And it was the mindset that I wanted the church。
and Christians to pick up, right?。
My career was about gaining the knowledge,。
the resources, the relationships,。
so that when I hit the halfway mark,。
I could arrive with all of my giftings。
and sew that into the kingdom of God.。
From my perspective, right,。
the world was yet to see what a truly dedicated Christian。
could achieve.。
And clearly, God had a lot of work to do on me.。
Right, three years later, God reminded me of this question。
as I was crying my eyes out on a flight to Manila.。
Earlier that day, I was sitting in a jail cell。
visiting a lady named Grace.。
Grace was being held in a small jail。
with about 250 other women,。
probably about the same size of the auditorium here.。
All right, these women were there waiting。
to have their cases heard before a court.。
They hadn't been trialed yet.。
They hadn't been sentenced yet.。
They hadn't been found guilty.。
All right, they had been arrested,。
either in the act of committing a crime。
or being under the suspicion of doing something illegal.。
Grace was one of those women who regularly visited。
by one of our missionaries that came from this church,。
Adrienne Ida Bell.。
Right, she was a single mother in her 40s,。
had three children,。
and had recently lost her husband to cancer.。
And she'd been living in that pretrial jail for two months,。
waiting to have her case heard in court.。
It was a messy and complicated situation,。
which only got worse for Grace.。
About two weeks earlier,。
she went to the local hospital to get some scans done.。
And the doctors there told her at that point,。
"Grace, you have stage three breast cancer.。
Now, when you're in that situation,。
treatment options are pretty limited."。
All right, Grace didn't have the opportunity。
to go down to the local public hospital to get treatment.。
All right, she didn't even have the money。
to hire a personal lawyer, a private lawyer,。
just to get her court case brought up earlier.。
She was sitting in that jail cell,。
watching the days go by with a disease。
that would end her life without treatment.。
Now, Grace and I shared a connection at that point。
that rose above our circumstances.。
Our connection went above our languages,。
it went above our culture,。
it went above whatever law she may have broken.。
Because as Grace and I sat there in that overcrowded jail,。
with tears in our eyes,。
we connected to the very essence of our humanity.。
And responding to somebody who shares with you。
that they have just had cancer,。
that's not always an easy thing to do.。
But let me tell you, it's even harder when you,。
just two years earlier,。
had the doctors say those same words to you,。
"Nathan, you have cancer."。
On the flight out of Iloilo that night,。
as soon as the catalysts went off,。
I broke down in tears and I grieved for Grace.。
For the fact that she was facing the same uncertainty,。
the same questions without answers,。
the same fear that I did,。
but with the very real probability。
that unless something significantly changed。
in the system that she was caught within,。
that with each day,。
that sentence was going to become more and more likely。
to be a death sentence for her.。
Her experience broke me,。
because even though we shared that cancer journey,。
it completely contrasted my own.。
My journey with cancer was relatively short-lived.。
It only took a week between the diagnosis。
to when I was in the hospital getting the tumor removed.。
And I received that amazing treatment。
for no other reason than the fact。
that I was born in a privileged country。
that had fair access to health services.。
So that night, I got pulled back to the question。
which God has used to literally shape my understanding。
of what it means to live missionally.。
If all I ever had for you。
was to love the person next to you,。
the person like grace,。
would you be satisfied?。
Now, I'm going to make a guess。
that this probably isn't the typical perspective。
that you'd expect to hear on a Sunday morning。
about missions, right?。
'Cause missions is normally about that external activity.。
The activity where we take our resources,。
we take our time, we take our experience,。
and we go somewhere to do something,。
the physical action out there.。
But I wanted to pick up this question today。
because what God has shown me since that breakfast is this.。
If we aren't able to internalize。
what it means to us personally,。
then we will always struggle to know the difference。
between doing missions and then living missionally.。
Right, so I want to take a few minutes。
just to break down that question.。
Is that all right?。
Good.。
Good, so let me ask you a question then.。
Where are you finding your satisfaction right now?。
Most of us probably approach that question。
from the perspective of how are my desires being fulfilled?。
Right, that's the narrative we experience。
most commonly around us,。
the desire to satisfy our personal needs,。
which includes how we expect people。
to see and react around us, right?。
Satisfaction is about fulfilling。
what feels right and good to me.。
And over the coming days,。
if you think through this question,。
I want to give you a little bit of an insight.。
The answers that start to come out from this。
will be really, really helpful。
when it comes to your relationship with God。
because you'll start to see some of those underlying motives。
that really drive our desires, right?。
Because the source of our satisfaction,。
that is so important because where it comes from。
is where we turn to satisfy ourselves, right?。
And wherever we get our satisfaction from。
is what we would desire the most.。
And whatever we desire the most。
is what shapes our actions, right?。
Source of satisfaction, forming our desires,。
shaping our actions.。
And in the context of missions,。
this process is what determines。
whether we are building God's kingdom。
or our own idea of what that should be, right?。
And you can probably start to see the problem。
with the perspective that I shared with you earlier, right?。
'Cause I was looking for satisfaction in the extravagance.。
Right, I wanted to build a kingdom。
that yes, it reflected elements of God,。
but it also looked a lot like what Nathan thinks is right.。
Right, and without that hard turnaround by God,。
my actions were going to end up driving me。
further away from his heart。
and that desire to love the person next to me.。
Now, I want you to see something in this, right?。
'Cause this process is not just my personal interpretation。
of an experience that I had, right?。
Because we also find the same thing in scripture, right?。
And I'm gonna show you this to you。
in the first five verses of Isaiah 55.。
I'm gonna read through this, but as I do it,。
I want you to pay special attention。
to the way that he describes this process。
of finding satisfaction, aligning desires,。
and the resulting actions that come from it.。
Okay, let's go from verse one.。
"Come all who are thirsty, come to the waters,。
and you who have no money, come buy and eat.。
Come buy wine and milk without money and without cost.。
Why spend money on what is not bread。
and your labor on what does not satisfy?。
Listen, listen to me and eat what is good,。
and you will delight in the richest of fair.。
Give ear and come to me.。
Listen that you may live,。
and I will make an everlasting covenant with you,。
my faithful love promised to David.。
See how I've made him a witness to the peoples,。
a ruler and a commander of the peoples.。
Surely you will summon nations you know not,。
and the nations you do not know will come running to you。
because of the Lord your God."。
In this passage, Isaiah is showing us。
that if we trust God, we will seek our satisfaction in him.。
And in that process of doing that,。
our desires become more and more aligned with him,。
which eventually forms the direction for our lives,。
which is so much more important。
than just a well-thought-out strategy plan, right?。
It opens up the opportunity to follow God,。
to be satisfied in him,。
and to live that missional lifestyle。
by being a witness to the people around us.。
So if we believe that mission is about this, right?。
If we believe it is about living our lives。
in a way that reflects God's intention。
and purpose for creation,。
then we have to recognize that this is only possible。
by walking in partnership with him.。
Out of that intimacy,。
we have the opportunity to point others。
towards a relationship with the creator。
and to influence the systems of injustice.。
But we can only do that underneath the sovereignty of God.。
And what I love about this is the reflection that it has。
with Jesus's ministry here on earth as well, right?。
When Jesus, he gave us these examples of a special place。
which we should inhabit as being part of the vine, right?。
He called us to remain into that place。
because without being connected to him,。
not only do we lose our ability to impact the world around us。
through the leading of the gospel,。
but we will over time inevitably find a gap growing。
between our desires and his, right?。
Having our satisfaction anchored in him。
is what we need to build healthy relationships with others。
then that those relationships。
should then stretch beyond our ideas.。
And that's important because if you're like me,。
if I'm not anchored in that satisfaction with God,。
holding onto it is something。
which it becomes extremely difficult, right?。
I wrestle with how this plays out in my life.。
You know, the desire that I have to do more,。
to produce greater impact, right?。
To scale up the kingdom of God.。
And the problem that happens is when we let go。
of that anchor, you start to see exactly what happened。
in my terrible statistical analysis。
of the world population earlier, right?。
I'm buying into my methods.。
I'm trying to leverage of my good ideas,。
my good intentions, the opportunities to influence people,。
but it becomes a very slippery slope。
away from Jesus himself.。
When we find more satisfaction in doing things for him。
as opposed to spending our time with him, right?。
So for us to liberate people,。
if we want to tear down the systems。
that oppress and enslave people,。
we need to have a systematic response.。
Absolutely, right?。
But it has to come with the transformation。
of the heart and the mind of the believer.。
Because even if, even if the 480 million people, right?。
If we all got together and we put our heads down。
and we did some good things, right?。
We did some really good things.。
I would say this, at the very best,。
that would be an incredible social movement,。
but it would run the risk of losing the actual spirit。
and the purpose behind it, what actually started.。
I want to give you an example。
of what this could look like, right?。
One of the pathways that Michelle mentioned earlier。
was the idea of creation care, right?。
Creation care being in essence,。
you're looking after God's creation, right?。
And taking responsibilities。
for either the way that we protect it。
or the way that we pollute it, right?。
This year, if you looked around the Vine Center,。
you have seen a couple of those little。
recycling bins pop up, right?。
That came out of an intentional decision。
that we took as a church。
to align where we found our satisfaction。
in the space of caring for God's creation.。
And it spilled over into the way。
that we do this as a staff as well, right?。
For our staff, each week, we save our paper,。
our plastics, our metals, and our glass.。
And then we bring it in to recycle。
with our partner, Hong Kong Recycles, right?。
That transformation started in our hearts.。
And now that conviction of the Holy Spirit,。
it has the potential to change society around us.。
And that's the important part about this, right?。
Because if we took this as a church,。
imagine if the Vine did this collectively, right?。
We didn't just recycle individually.。
We took it to our church.。
I'd sort of, we're already at your church.。
If you took it to your business,。
if you took it to your school,。
if it took to the facilities,。
the complexes that we live in,。
and we all started to recycle,。
that has the foundations to be growing。
into something which is so much more.。
And the thing that I love about that,。
when it comes to this idea of evangelizing,。
you cannot find an easier platform。
to sharing why your faith is so important to you。
than through this type of engagement, right?。
I do this because of my faith.。
I do this because I care of the environment.。
You'll remember from the Alternative Society。
that this is the exact process。
that Paul was teaching the church in Philippi, right?。
By aligning our desires with the greater good。
of the advancement of the gospel。
and following God wherever he leads us,。
we will find the joy in that space。
as we discover opportunities to lead people around us。
into a deepening relationship with their creator.。
Okay, I think you've got the point, right?。
I've shared a little bit about that process in my life.。
We've unpacked it a little bit within scripture.。
But what I wanna do now is I wanna bring this back。
to the space where we are right now.。
I wanna bring this back to you.。
There's a second part to that question。
that I asked you earlier, right?。
The second part of this was love the person next to you.。
One of the things that Michelle and I love。
about being on the missions team。
is the opportunity that we get along。
to come alongside of you。
and walk out the journey that God has for you, right?。
And we actually designed our approach to missions。
with that in mind, right?。
We wanted to equip our church to be informed。
and resourced to live out their faith。
in the areas that they are passionate about.。
We do that through our pathways.。
We do that through our partnerships that we have.。
But we also do that by walking that out。
with you personally, right?。
In discovering what your missional response can be.。
And that's important for us because the reality is。
that the journey that you are on is deeply personal, right?。
It's shaped by your skills.。
It's shaped by your experiences, your passions, right?。
It's the personal connection that you have。
to the missional expression which makes it so important.。
It's the reason why living missionally in your neighborhood。
in the area that you do, your job that you have,。
while you attend this church,。
even the relationships that you have,。
they all become connections on what it means。
to love the person next to you, right?。
We have the opportunity to walk alongside of you。
in this area.。
However, we certainly don't have all the answers。
on what it means to be living missionally.。
And a significant reason for that。
is because there's a collective response involved, right?。
We come together as a community,。
as a community that we do like every Sunday。
in our community groups during the week,。
when you're in your workplace。
and you're having some of those sort of connections。
with other believers,。
that community is a part of what it means。
to be supporting, releasing,。
and encouraging us to live out our faith.。
So my hope for you today is this.。
Even though I don't know your context,。
I don't know the relationships that you're in,。
my hope is that this opportunity that we have right now。
could be a moment where God gives you the insight。
into who he's calling you to love.。
And that's what we're gonna do.。
We're gonna create a space for this。
over the next few minutes,。
to take that step together as a community.。
I've invited several people to come and pray over us today,。
people whose voices represent。
four different spheres of influence。
that we all interact.。
Okay, I'm gonna ask you to bring up。
that four sections there on the slide.。
Right, we're looking at places like the workplace.。
So this is for people who are。
in an active employment form, right?。
An opportunity to find where you can express God,。
your faith in that particular space.。
We have an area which we're gonna look at family, right?。
For either your family or a family。
that you're living with, a family that you care for.。
We're gonna look at the next generation,。
the students and youth in our city.。
And then also the Hong Kong community.。
The broader sense of what it means。
to be living in this city and living missionally as well.。
Right, we chose these areas。
because every one of us has an interaction。
with at least one of them, right?。
And I'm gonna give you 10 seconds right now。
just to look at these and to choose one。
that most closely resonates with you.。
It doesn't have to be a sense of calling,。
but it is going to be a sphere。
where you're uniquely positioned。
to influence and live out the gospel.。
Instead of having myself。
or one of our pastoral teams do this,。
we've actually invited a number of different people。
from our community to pray that prayer of encouragement。
and releasing over you as you go to interact。
with people across those communities.。
And to me, that's important。
because this is the same people。
who bring the perspective that you carry, right?。
They're the people who have the same circumstances。
that you're involved with, the same opportunities.。
So I'm gonna ask them to come and join me at the moment.。
The first I'm gonna do is actually invite Tim to join us。
to pray over the workplace.。
And what we're gonna do, how this is gonna work is this.。
If the workplace is an area which you feel called to,。
I'm gonna ask you to stand up, right?。
Tim is gonna pray over you.。
But at the end of that prayer,。
as we go into the next sections, don't sit down yet, right?。
I want you to stay standing.。
And as somebody stands up around you,。
I want you to turn to them and join us in prayer as well.。
Join us in prayer and what it means。
to be living missionally,。
to be able to love the person next to us, okay?。
And while we're doing this, if God gives you something,。
if He gives you a person, if He gives you a people group,。
if He gives you an action that He wants you to do。
in response, I want you to feel the freedom。
to take out your phone, to take out your notepad,。
and just make note of one thing that you could be doing。
over the next week in response to that, okay?。
So for the people in that particular space with workplace,。
I'm gonna ask you to stand now。
and Tim's gonna pray for you.。
(gentle music)。
- All right, let's pray.。
Father God, as someone who spends a lot of time at work,。
I lift up all of the people who are standing here,。
who have always been busy with super packed schedules。
and taking a lot of responsibilities in their duties.。
We sometimes focus fully on our work。
and forget about the purpose of life.。
We may not spend enough time with our families and friends。
to manage our health, and the most important thing,。
we don't have enough time to spend with you.。
God, I pray that you bring peace to our work。
and let you be the center of our lives.。
I pray for your blessing to let us be a channel。
of God's peace in our workplace.。
I pray for your courage and boldness。
to fill those stress, anxiety, and difficulties。
we are all facing at our work.。
Help us not to be afraid, leading by examples on our fields。
in both of our performances。
and sharing great testimonies of your grace.。
I pray that all of you are filled with God's love。
and presence at your workplace.。
May you use all of us as a great tool。
to shine in between all of our coworkers,。
seniors, juniors, clients, and customers.。
Thank you that you are the ultimate father in our workplace.。
In your name we pray, amen.。
- Thank you, Tim.。
I'm gonna ask the people who feel like。
that sphere of influence that you wanna respond to。
is the family section, just to stand up now.。
And we're gonna be joined by Melanie to pray over that.。
- Heavenly Father, we lift up those fathers。
who are employed and spend a lot of time in the office.。
Lord, we pray that you would help them。
and give them wisdom on how to balance their time。
between work and families,。
that they will trust you for their provision.。
It is your will for families to grow in love。
toward one another, that you would enable them。
to be strong and courageous,。
no matter what circumstance themselves in.。
Help them not to be afraid, but to stand in the fight。
and put their trust in you, God.。
I bless you to be a safe place in your family,。
that you would walk in God's blessings and goodness,。
and that the glory of God shine upon you.。
I bless you to be a channel of God's peace in Hong Kong.。
I pray, Lord, for the release of your grace on them。
and in their families in a new measure。
from this day forward for your glory.。
Father, we lift up all the moms。
who brought us up in your love and grace.。
Give them wisdom and understanding。
in all the things they face,。
and that their hearts will be knitted together in love。
for their husband, children, and other family members.。
Father, we pray for the children as well.。
We declare that they belong to you,。
that they would fear you,。
place in their hearts a desire to love you,。
know you, and live for you, God.。
Help every parent to train their children。
in the way they should go according to your word.。
Thank you, God, that you are our ultimate father。
to all families.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
- Thank you, Melanie.。
I'm gonna ask Fran to come。
and a prayer over the Hong Kong community.。
For people here in the city,。
you have an opportunity to respond to the needs。
that exist, would you please stand with us now?。
- Dear Lord Jesus,。
as we reflect on missions and outreach today,。
we ask you to give us a passion for your great commission.。
Open our spiritual eyes, Lord,。
to see the needs you see,。
to be your hands and feet,。
your words, and your love to our family,。
our neighbors, our colleagues, our classmates,。
our friends, our street cleaners,。
the cashier at the store,。
the stranger on the MTR, and more.。
Give us compassionate hearts, Lord,。
and a love that comes from you,。
because our love is inadequate.。
Empower and equip us with the gifts of your spirit, Lord,。
to reach out to every corner of Hong Kong。
and the rest of the world.。
Give us a burden for those who do not yet know you,。
and give us courage and boldness to step out in faith,。
to share your love and salvation with them.。
Speak to each one of us here today, Lord.。
Open our eyes and hearts to a spiritual awareness。
of those who are in need of you.。
Let us not be afraid of our inadequacies,。
because it is not our efforts or abilities.。
Your promise to us is that as long as our hearts are willing,。
you will step alongside us to reap the harvest.。
So place the desire in us, Lord.。
Fan the flame within us, Lord,。
to rise up and be a worker in your field of harvest.。
We proclaim that the workers will no longer be few,。
because we step forward and say,。
"Yes, Lord, here I am.。
"Take me as I am, and use me in your field of harvest."。
Thank you, Lord Jesus.。
We ask this in your name, amen.。
- Amen.。
Thank you.。
And then lastly, the next generation.。
I'm gonna invite my friend to come and just pray over that.。
So if there's anyone who is seated,。
I imagine this is probably gonna be you.。
Join us just to pray for the next generation。
here in the city.。
- Heavenly Father, I lift up in prayer。
the young people whose spheres of influences。
are in schools like myself.。
We known as students, we have a lot to learn,。
yet we can also be an example for others in speech,。
in conduct, in love, in faith, and in purity.。
We seek your blessing to be the students。
you call us to be.。
Jesus, our greatest teacher,。
would you teach us how to stand by our friends,。
our classmates, our teachers, our teammates,。
our sports coaches, our teachers,。
and our bus drivers.。
Holy Spirit, our closest helper,。
may you give us boldness in our positions as students.。
When we need to extend ourselves to give,。
to care, to forgive, and to teach the people around us,。
grant us peace, in Jesus' name, amen.。
- Father, we thank you for the opportunity that we get。
just to be able to come together as a community,。
to be able to reflect on what it means to love you。
and to find our satisfaction in you,。
but at the same time to know that。
that is not all that you're calling us to do,。
calling us to love the person next to you.。
So that as we stand here today, Lord,。
I just pray that you would just bless and encourage。
each and every one of us in the responses that we take,。
and take the opportunity that we have to live our faith。
externally into society around us.。
Lord, we thank you for that in your mighty name, amen.。
(upbeat music)。
