No one likes waiting.。
I was in the MTR last week at Thim Sa Chui.。
I ran down the escalator to get my train to Central.。
I couldn't believe my eyes when I saw the platform sign.。
The train will arrive。
in four minutes.。
Aiyah!。
Four minutes!。
But what about the 400 silent years?。
The time between the last writings of the Old Testament。
and the appearance of Christ is known as the Intertestamental Period。
or Between the Testaments.。
It lasted from the prophet Malachi about 400 BC。
to the ministry of John the Baptist。
whose birth we look forward to today as we kick off our Advent series, Surprising Joy.。
Because there was no prophetic word from God during the period from Malachi to John,。
some refer to it as the 400 silent years.。
To set the scene, I want to read a couple of verses from Luke chapter 1.。
Verse 13, "But the angel said to him, 'Do not be afraid, Zechariah. Your prayer has been heard.。
Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you are to call him John.'"。
Good name, that one.。
Verse 63, "Zechariah asked for a writing tablet."。
No iPads in those days.。
"And to everyone's astonishment, he wrote this.。
His name is John."。
His name is John.。
Now the story of Zechariah and Elizabeth is quite personal to me.。
My father was 51 years of old when I was born.。
And I was actually his firstborn.。
My mom had been widowed.。
Could you imagine the excitement of having your first child at that age?。
My father's name was John Henry Snellgrove, to be precise.。
But I was born on the 23rd of April, which in the UK is known as St. George's Day, our patron saint.。
So my mom decided to call me George.。
But dad had other ideas and promptly went out to register me, I guess after a celebration drink or three.。
You guessed it, he said, "His name is John."。
John Henry Snellgrove, Jr. made his entry into the world.。
And by the way, no calling me George after the service.。
Anyway, let's get back to the sermon.。
I think sometimes in church, in our sermons, we are guilty of what I call verse picking.。
Reading only verses that suit our sermon story.。
But today in our Advent series, and Chapman has already told us about the first coming and the second coming of Jesus,。
we ask ourselves three questions.。
The first one is this, what does Advent mean?。
And the answer is coming.。
Who is coming?。
Jesus.。
What are we to do?。
Get ready.。
So as part of getting ready, I'm going to read the whole passage, 21 verses in one go.。
I'm reading from Luke chapter 1, starting from verse 5.。
In the time of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah,。
who belonged to the priestly division of Abijah.。
His wife, Elizabeth, was also a descendant of Aaron.。
Both of them were righteous in the sight of God, observing all the Lord's commands and decrees blamelessly.。
But they were childless, because Elizabeth was not able to conceive.。
And they were both very old.。
Once, when Zechariah's division was on duty, and he was serving as a priest before God,。
he was chosen by Lot, according to the custom of the priesthood, to go into the temple and to burn the incense.。
And when the time for the burning of incense came, all the assembled worshippers were praying outside.。
Then, I love that word, an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing at the right side of the altar of incense.。
When Zechariah saw him, he was startled and was gripped with fear.。
But the angel said to him, "Do not be afraid, Zechariah. Your prayer has been heard.。
Your wife, Elizabeth, will bear you a son, and you are to call him John.。
He will be a joy and a delight to you, and many will rejoice because of his birth.。
For he will be great in the sight of the Lord. He is never to take wine or any other fermented drink.。
And he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even before he is born.。
He will bring back many of the people of Israel to the Lord their God.。
And he will go on before the Lord in the spirit and power of Elijah,。
to turn the hearts of the parents to their children, and the disobedience to the wisdom of the righteous,。
and to make ready a people prepared for the Lord."。
Zechariah asked the angel, "How can this be? I'm an old man, and my wife, well, she's well along in years."。
The angel said to him, "I am Gabriel. I stand in the presence of God,。
and I have been sent to speak to you and tell you this good news.。
And now you will be silent and not able to speak until the day this happens,。
because you do not believe my words, which will come true at their appointed time."。
Meanwhile, the people were waiting for Zechariah and wondering why he stayed so long in the temple.。
When he came out, he could not speak to them.。
They realized he had seen a vision in the temple, for he kept making signs,。
but remained unable to speak.。
When his time of service was completed, he went home.。
After this, his wife, Elizabeth, became pregnant and for five months remained in seclusion.。
"The Lord has done this for me," she said.。
"In these days, he has shown his favor and taken away my disgrace amongst the people."。
So quite a long passage, and there are three key themes in this passage.。
The first theme is Zechariah and Elizabeth's long years of barrenness.。
We can assume that Elizabeth and Zechariah are well past childbearing age.。
We're not told their exact age, or John's birth would not have been considered a miracle.。
We are told in verse 7, "But they were childless because Elizabeth was not able to conceive,。
and they were very old."。
Anecdotally, they would probably be in their 60s, and if they were in Hong Kong,。
they would qualify for a Joy-U card and pay $2 for travel.。
The second theme, the key theme, is the silence of God after centuries of prophetic absence.。
I've already described it, the 400 silent years.。
The announcement of John's birth breaks the silence, bringing unexpected joy.。
Not only for Elizabeth and Zechariah, but also for Israel.。
This leads me to ask ourselves,。
have you ever experienced a significant desert season in your life?。
Let me repeat it.。
Have you ever experienced a significant desert season in your life?。
I've chatted to a few people recently who have described to me a long season of doubt,。
confusion, spiritual dryness, or a long season of waiting for God to come.。
A long season of waiting for something that they long for in their life.。
Using my MTR analogy, most of us don't even like the experience of short waits.。
If you've ever been to McDonald's, you go in and you go, "What's the shortest queue?"。
"Can I get in the shortest queue?"。
"Oh good, that you've actually got in the shortest queue until the guy in front of you orders 14 Big Mac meals."。
I read that collectively people spend about 67 billion hours a year waiting in lines.。
And even this small task can be a test of our patience most days.。
Even in the short waits, the feeling of uncertainty about their end,。
and the feeling of it being unfair, like the guy with the 14 Big Mac meals, makes us struggle.。
But then there are experiences in life that involve not just minutes, but months, and even years of waiting.。
It can feel like a desert, or like barrenness.。
This kind of waiting doesn't just test our patience, it tests our hope.。
As pastors, Sandra and I have walked with countless couples wrestling with childlessness.。
It's so hard, especially those who are desperate to have a family of their own.。
But barrenness can take many forms.。
It can look like eight dryness in your life, a loss, loneliness, rejection.。
It can be some relationship not yet reconciled, or something you've been asking God to do in your marriage or in your singleness.。
It can look like a pain or injustice you've endured, and are asking for healing and restoration.。
Or some, and I know this is many of us, struggle like depression.。
You keep asking God to do something.。
God, do something new!。
But the change hasn't come yet.。
For many of us, the waiting changes us.。
And yet somehow, some of us are able to keep our hearts alive in the barren places.。
Zechariah and Elizabeth were among a people who had experienced a lifetime waiting in desert circumstances.。
The nation of Israel was waiting for the promised Messiah.。
And Zechariah and Elizabeth, who were very old and barren, were longing for a child.。
Their story shows us two ways of responding when God shows up in those dry, hopeless places in our lives.。
One is skeptical.。
The other is full of wonder.。
And we ask the question, what is the difference between them?。
How can we keep our hearts soft and hopeful so we don't miss God when He shows up?。
I wonder, for Zechariah, if maybe the experience of God with him in his waiting wasn't personal for him anymore.。
I can't imagine what it was like for him.。
All the years, all the years of asking for a child.。
The waiting, the possible stigma of unfaithfulness that others would have felt towards them.。
Oh, God hasn't blessed you because you're not faithful enough.。
Even though they had lived incredibly faithful lives.。
My friends, waiting without answers and without an end in sight can be excruciating.。
I think of some of our Asylum Seeker friends here at the Vine.。
I was speaking at the Arise Fellowship last week and I noticed some of them who've been with us for up to 15 years。
without their case getting settled and, to be honest, nowhere near their case being settled.。
In a foreign country, no access to an ID card and limited benefits and even more limited prospects.。
Waiting is so difficult and often the waiting changes us.。
Maybe Zechariah had changed somehow in the waiting.。
He clearly kept going through the motions. He was faithful in his duty.。
He continued to pray for the redemption of Israel and to believe that God would send Messiah.。
But, maybe he'd lost hope that God would show up in his own personal desert.。
So, when God shows up in, I have to say, an incredibly theatrical encounter to get his attention。
and give this personal announcement that he would indeed have a son.。
At first, Zechariah misses what God is doing.。
I don't know if you know, but there were nearly 18,000 priests who were each on duty two weeks a year.。
They cast lots to see who would burn the incense and offer prayers.。
If you get chosen, you can never do it again.。
It's a once in a lifetime opportunity and some people would never get chosen.。
Let's read what happened as Zechariah gets chosen.。
Verse 8.。
What we're going to see is while he is there performing this holy, ancient service for Israel,。
an angel of the Lord shows up to tell him he's going to have a son.。
Then the angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing at the right side of the altar of incense.。
When Zechariah saw him, he was startled and gripped with fear.。
But the angel said to him, "Do not be afraid, Zechariah. Your prayer has been heard.。
Elizabeth will bear you a son and you are called him John."。
God shows up and Zechariah, you can see it, can't you? He's wondering, "How can I be sure?"。
He says this, "How can I be sure of this? I'm an old man.。
My wife is getting on a bit as well. Went along in years."。
He's scepticism. He has everything he needs to believe that God could do a great thing for him.。
Firstly, he's a priest. He holds the stories of God's faithfulness to others like Abraham and Sarah.。
He has the stories of his own life and this supernatural encounter.。
It's pretty statistically reliable evidence that if an angel shows up and says that God is going to do a thing, God's going to do that thing.。
But what he experiences is scepticism.。
It's almost like he stopped believing that God will do anything like this for him.。
It's not personal anymore.。
Maybe under all of our struggling with the deserts of our lives is this fear.。
This loss of faith.。
"Oh, we can believe that God's going to come through for other people."。
But maybe not just for us anymore.。
On the other hand, Elizabeth responds differently.。
She hears the news in a very different way.。
Possibly just her old, mute husband scribbling a note to her or making hand gestures.。
She probably also notices a few changes in her body.。
But there were no sonograms or ultrasound.。
There was no way to be certain.。
She could have thought she was crazy or maybe just ill.。
But somehow she believed not only that God could do such a thing,。
she believed He would do such a thing for her.。
Can you see that?。
It's one thing to believe that God could do it.。
Another thing, that God will do it for me.。
And she said this, verse 25, I'll put it on the screen.。
"The Lord has done this for me."。
It's personal to her.。
It's not just about the redemption of Israel.。
But it is also about God showing up in a very personal way for her and Zechariah.。
It has a feeling of intimate worship as we read how she stays in seclusion for five months.。
And then later when Mary visits her, a song of worship pours out of her heart.。
But it leads us to the question, what about us?。
What about us?。
The story of Elizabeth and Zechariah makes me wonder,。
how can we keep our hearts soft and hopeful when we encounter deserts in our life?。
What are a few ways we can keep our life with God personal?。
I want to suggest a couple of things.。
Number one in this Thanksgiving week, remember and be thankful.。
It helps to remember ways He has shown up for us before and for those around us.。
Being thankful is a way of acknowledging His active work around us。
and reminds our hearts that He is not far away.。
Passively watching our lives evolve.。
He is close and He is acting on behalf of those He loves.。
To be honest, if I had unlimited time today, I would go around the congregation。
and ask you all to say one thing that you are thankful for.。
Maybe just think about that now.。
What are you thankful for?。
Remember it and be thankful. That's number one.。
Number two, nurture an intimate friendship with God.。
Everyone does this differently.。
But any relationship requires time and presence,。
listening and learning in order to grow.。
Reading or listening to scripture, praying,。
learning to listen to the voice of God,。
finding ways to glimpse how good and just how faithful God is。
often leads to worship because it's our natural response to be in awe。
and we are reminded of God's greatness and His love.。
And the third one is be around spiritual family.。
When the desert is hard and testing our hope,。
we need people in our life who will remind us。
that God still knows our name.。
He still sees our life and that He will come through to us.。
If you're not in a community group or a small group, get in one now.。
Be around spiritual family.。
We may not get to encounter with an angel,。
but Jesus is always showing up in our lives.。
And if Jesus is always personal for us,。
we can find flourishing even in the desert.。
Let me finish with an illustration.。
There are parts of the Atacama Desert in Chile。
where no rain has ever been recorded.。
Scientists believe that portions of the region。
have been in extreme desert state for 40 million years,。
longer than any other place on earth.。
And yet, more than 1 million people live in the Atacama currently.。
Farmers have found ways to extract enough water。
from underground water supplies and snow melt streams。
to grow crops and raise llamas and alpacas.。
In 2015, a portion of the desert received a historic rainfall,。
just under one inch of rain in one day.。
It may not seem very much,。
particularly those of us who come from England,。
but it was the equivalent of 14 years of rainfall。
for this region all in one day.。
And this desert that had already found a way。
to thrive and sustain more than 1 million people。
was now also covered in a beautiful layer。
of pink and purple bloom after the rain.。
Let's look at the picture.。
My friends, this is a picture of your life.。
Yeah, take it. Share it. Post and tag. Go on.。
This is in the driest place on the whole earth.。
What a picture.。
My friends, the message of this Advent。
is that Jesus has come to take away the barrenness of the world.。
He can make us flourish and bring beauty。
even in the deserted places of our lives.。
If you are in a season of waiting,。
how is the waiting changing you?。
Maybe today, yes, today,。
Jesus wants to renew your hope。
that he is showing up in the barren places of your life.。
As I ask the band to come up,。
I'm going to ask you just to close your eyes for a moment.。
(Pause)。
We're going to pray now as a church。
for anyone here who is waiting.。
I suspect it's many of us.。
Maybe you're like Zechariah and Elizabeth.。
You're a couple waiting for a baby,。
waiting to get pregnant.。
It hasn't happened.。
Maybe you're waiting for that relationship.。
When is God going to bring that person into my life。
that will allow me to walk through life with?。
Maybe you're waiting for a job or a job opportunity.。
Maybe you're waiting for a time。
just to get out of the depression you're in.。
You've got that sort of mood around you。
and it's around you the whole time.。
How long is this going to go on for, Lord?。
When am I going to see joy again?。
Whatever it is, if you're waiting today,。
we're going to pray for you.。
Keep your eyes closed for a moment.。
If you're waiting for something, whatever it is,。
just put your hands up and we're going to pray for you.。
If you're waiting for something.。
(Pause)。
Just open your eyes, everyone.。
Keep your hands up.。
If you're around these people, just go and lay hands on them.。
It's not too late.。
People who have got their hands up, can you just go around?。
This is not me praying for everybody.。
This is not the way we do church.。
The church prays for the church.。
Find a person with their hands up.。
There are people all over the place.。
Please look.。
If you haven't got your hands up, go and pray for someone.。
(Pause)。
Come on, guys, I need you to be part of this.。
(Pause)。
If you're waiting, I'm not going to ask you what you're waiting for.。
It'll be different for each one of us.。
There's a lady at the back waiting.。
Some people at the back waiting, can people go and pray for them?。
(Pause)。
Come on, this is part of us growing as a church, growing as a family.。
When we see people in our family struggling with something,。
to go and reach out to them.。
Just reach out your hands to them.。
You don't have to pray the most wonderful prayer.。
But just lay your hands.。
Just say, "I care.。
You're my family.。
Divine, you and Long.。
We're building a family here."。
And if you're waiting, we're waiting with you.。
We believe that God is going to come through.。
(Pause)。
continue to pray.。
