Amen。
Oh, oh wow, your lights are pretty bright, bright here。
I hope you don't mind, but yeah, I can take this off as well。
Oh wow。
This reminds me of the very first day that I first saw light in my life。
Ah, what a wonderful memory。
Actually, I can't stop telling that story again and again in my life。
Oh, oh, but since, yeah, I know, we've never met before, right?。
This is the first time I meet you also。
I'm just gonna let you know a little bit about myself。
Hi everyone, my name is Bar Timaeus。
I'm Jewish and I'm not gonna tell you about my age。
But, you know, in our language, which is Aramaic, by the way。
Bar, my name Bar, means son。
And my father's name was Timaeus。
So my name literally means son of Timaeus。
I guess when he named me, he was expecting me to be like him。
But then I guess he was really frustrated or disappointed the day。
when he found out I was actually blind。
When I was young, my parents, they loved me。
They, you know, they don't normally talk about my condition。
But they actually taught me how to survive。
I remember there was one night at home。
I was supposed to be sleeping and I heard them crying outside。
And they were saying something like。
They're praying, saying, "Forgive our sins, Lord"。
And I don't know what that means。
But later I heard somebody said, "Actually, blindness and other disabilities。
is normally a form of punishment from the Lord"。
I remember that night I went home at dinner。
I told my parents, I said this。
I said, "Father, Mother, is the Lord punishing us?。
That's why I'm blind?"。
That was the longest silence I've ever experienced。
My father and my mother, they haven't said another word that night。
And I just decided I'll never bring that up again。
Don't get me wrong, my parents, they do love me。
They took good care of me。
But eventually they passed。
Everybody does, right?。
And someone like me, I wasn't able to do any kind of work。
Because any kind of work, it would mean physical labour。
Like farming or fishing。
And I couldn't see and I couldn't do any of that。
I had no income。
So soon after my parents were gone, I ended up on the streets。
What else can a blind man like me do。
except begging for money, begging for people to spare some change for me?。
So every day when the rooster crows。
"Cuckoo, cuckoo!"。
I'll just make my way to the market。
I'll go outside the market and wait for people to come。
And I know what time people come。
It's normally when I could feel the heat of the sun on my face。
That's the time when people started coming。
And you know what? I'll tell you something。
If you want to be a beggar outside the market, there's a strategy。
Yes, being a beggar, you need strategy as well。
So what I would do is I would go to the entrance of the market。
But I cannot be too close to the stores。
Otherwise the store owners would get mad at us and they would drive us away。
But I can't be too far away either。
Because if I stay too far away, people, after they are leaving the market。
they would either miss us or they would have given all their spare change。
to those beggars closer to the market。
So it takes strategy。
And me and my buddies, we are really good at strategies。
And one day, we found out a great strategy。
Do you know who are the most generous people in all of Judea?。
It's actually those people who are going to the temple。
to present the sacrifice to the Lord。
And so, me and my friends, we found a good spot outside the city of Jericho。
because there were a lot of travelers going or going to or coming back from Jerusalem。
And so we would sit there and just wait for someone to drop by。
And one day, one day there was another large crowd passing by and headed to Jerusalem。
Oh, I thought, you know, it could be some Pharisees, rabbis and their followers。
But let me tell you, they are bad business。
You know, the Pharisees, they are known for their love for money。
They are very stingy people。
But they love to put on a show for everyone。
So what they would do is, when there's a large audience, these Pharisee rabbis。
they would come to people like us。
and they would start talking about how the law instructs them to care for people like us。
And they would say, "Oh yes, I love the law, I love the Lord" and blah, blah, blah, blah。
And then, in the thunder of applause, everybody was clapping and they would throw us a few cents。
Not even enough for my lunch。
And they even expect us to go to them and say, "Oh, thank you for your generosity, sir。
Thank you so much"。
The memory of that makes me sick。
But just out of curiosity that day, just because I do want to find out who it was。
So I shouted, I said, "Excuse me, who are you following?"。
Yeah, like that, nobody responded。
I think after five times I have shouted the same thing。
Finally, perhaps someone was kind enough, or maybe they were too annoyed by me。
They finally yelled back at me and said, "Oh, it's Jesus of Nazareth。
But what do you blind men know about the rabbi?。
Just keep quiet, man, don't embarrass yourself"。
Jesus of Nazareth。
Come on, surely I've heard of him。
Everybody in town have heard of him。
People talk about him in the market。
They talk about him on the streets。
Of course, they were sceptical at first。
They would say something like, "Oh, what good can come out of Nazareth?"。
Or they would say, "A Galilean? Are you kidding me?。
Is he here to teach us how to fish?"。
Well, but then I started to hear stories。
There was a story about him healing a paralyzed man。
I don't know how he did it, but what I heard was that man literally picked up his man and walked away。
And I heard another story about him driving demons out of a man into some pigs。
That was a hilarious one, right?。
But later I heard of a story of Jesus opening the eyes of a blind man in Bethsaida。
I'm like, "Really? Someone like me, a blind man, can be healed?"。
Then I remember I used to follow my parents to the synagogue。
And I would listen to the reading of scriptures。
It was a brief moment in my life when I would feel I'm normal。
Because everybody else would be doing the same thing。
They would just sit there and listen attentively to the reader or to the preacher, to the speaker。
I felt I could blend in, I felt that moment。
I'm normal, I could just do what everybody else does。
That's the one thing that I really enjoy。
And I remember there was this particular book written by the prophet Isaiah。
And then he talks about this figure, they call him the Messiah, the son of David。
He will bring us the kingdom of peace, of shalom。
And not only that, but there is a line in this book that says。
The eyes of the blind will be opened, the ears of the deaf will be unstopped。
The lame will leap like a deer and the mute tongue will shout for joy。
Every time when they read that, I just couldn't stop weeping。
What beautiful words, what a wonderful promise。
And then I start to wonder, would this Jesus of Nazareth be that anointed one。
That promised Messiah, could I be a part of his kingdom。
And experience shalom and feel complete for once in my life。
When that name was mentioned that day outside the city of Jericho。
My entire body started shaking。
I knew I had to call him, I knew if someone could help me, that would be him。
The next moment I found these words just coming out of my mouth。
Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me please。
What else could I ask of a king?。
And he's just not a normal king, he's the king of kings。
What else could I ask him but to have mercy on a nobody like me。
I actually don't know if Jesus has heard me。
But those around surely did and they weren't very happy。
They were saying, keep your voice down man。
They were saying, it's not time to ask for money, get lost you beggar。
Or someone say, he's a very important man who's got important business in Jerusalem。
He's not here to entertain you, just go home you dude。
Usually when I hear this kind of stuff I would try to hide, I would feel super embarrassed。
I would run away, but in that instance I knew I'd rather lose face and make a fool of myself。
Than to lose the one opportunity to get my life changed。
I wanted this so badly that shame couldn't stop me。
Their mean words and their rebuke couldn't stop me。
I gathered all my strength and I yelled at the top of my lungs again。
Son of David, help me, have mercy on me。
And suddenly I no longer heard footsteps。
The whole crowd quieted down as if they were waiting for something to happen。
And I heard a man's voice, cheer up mate, on your feet, he's calling you。
I could tell that voice, even though I couldn't see, I could tell that voice was directed to my direction。
But I couldn't believe, so I had to confirm, I said, me?。
He said, yeah, you blind man, he wants to talk to you。
You mean the Messiah didn't just hear me, but he actually stopped to see me?。
I've never had someone who want to spend time with me ever since my parents were gone。
Everybody here, they tried to stop me, but Jesus, he stopped for me。
These people, they made me feel like I'm a nobody, but that day Jesus made me feel I'm a somebody。
I was so overwhelmed, but I jumped to my feet at once and I walked towards that voice。
And I could sense the crowd just parted like the Red Sea in front of me。
Until I reached the other shore where Jesus was waiting for me。
I will never forget his first words to me, and in fact, he asked me a question。
He said, what do you want me to do for you?。
What do you mean, what do I want?。
No one has ever asked me such a question, who would care what a blind beggar wants?。
And if Jesus is king, I should be the one doing what he wants。
I should be the one bowing before him and said, your will be done my Lord。
I should be the one asking him that。
And yet, he's asking me what I want。
Here standing in front of me was a man who was king, and yet he acted like a servant。
With tears in my eyes, I uttered my wildest dream to him。
I said, my master, my Lord, I want to see。
I never dared to say those four words, I want to see to anyone in my life。
People would just call me silly, or they would say it's impossible, it's unrealistic, stop daydreaming。
I never imagined someone would care to listen。
Just now I told you, when I used to listen to God's word in the synagogue, I felt I'm normal。
But you know what, that day I suddenly realized。
I felt I was a normal person when someone actually stopped to listen to me。
And what really blew my mind was that that someone standing there asking what I wanted。
Listening to my every word, he was God himself。
"Go," he said, "your faith has healed you"。
Before he finished that sentence, I felt this warmth, this burning sensation in my eyes。
And then it was brightness, it's like walking out of a completely dark room into the bright sunny day。
My faith in Jesus opened my eyes。
And when I looked up, I saw a face, I saw the face。
I remember in the synagogue, they used to pray this blessing over us。
The Lord make his face shine on you and be gracious to you。
The Lord turns his face towards you and give you peace。
That's the face I saw that day。
That's the very first face indeed in my life I've ever seen。
And that's the face I'm gonna see in eternity, the face of Jesus。
At that moment, I knew I wanted to follow him for the rest of my life。
I knew I'll go wherever he goes。
He's my healer, he's my savior, he's my king。
I want to spend the rest of my life asking him, "What do you want me to do for you?"。
Or even better, "What do you want me to do with you, Lord?"。
I was a blind beggar sitting on the side of the road。
But Jesus came, he stopped, he listened, and he responded。
So I'm telling you guys, today if you cry out to him, he would do the same for you。
He would come into your life, he would stop for you, he would listen to you, and he would respond。
What is that you want to tell him today?。
Where in your life you need him to heal you and save you, to zozo you。
Come to him today and cry out to him, "Jesus, have mercy on me"。
Greetings, my dear friends。
Peace be with you。
Oh, thank you for that。
How are you guys doing today?。
My name is John。
I'm one of the disciples of Jesus。
Isn't the story of Bartimaeus amazing?。
Can we give him a round of applause?。
But I want to tell you this。
What's even more wonderful for me personally。
is that the day when Bartimaeus received his sight, I received mine too。
The day when his eyes were open, so were mine。
I remember that day very well。
It was the final days we spent with Jesus before he was arrested, he was tortured, and finally crucified in Jerusalem。
In fact, we were on our way there, we were walking towards Jerusalem。
And we came all the way from Galilee, and then we passed through Jericho in Judea, and we were headed towards Jerusalem。
And that was the Passover period, so there were lots of people going to Jerusalem alongside us, and we had a large crowd following us。
And you know Jesus, just being Jesus himself, he would seize every opportunity to teach the people about the kingdom of God。
But I could tell, being his friend, he was quite burdened inside。
It's in the small details, it's in the way how he looked at us, it's in the way how he would spend longer time away from us in solitude, like just praying by himself。
And he also told us, not just once, not just twice, but three times, that whatever is in store for him in Jerusalem, it's pain, and suffering, and death。
He said he's going to be killed there。
You know, of course, none of us wanted that to happen, right? He's a good friend, he's a rabbi。
And my best buddy Peter actually tried to talk him out of it, but yeah, it didn't end too well for him。
But even what's more bizarre was that he told us after he died, he would rise again in three days。
We had no idea what he was talking about。
But so far, let me tell you, following Jesus, yeah, that kind of life is nothing short of miracles, surprises, and also riddles that none of us really understood。
The one thing we were sure though was that he was the son of God, and he is the son of God。
He's the Messiah that we've been waiting for。
We even saw him talking to Moses and Elijah on the top of a mountain。
He is going to be a Messiah, and what that means is he should be a conquering king。
He will lead us in glorious victories and establish his kingdom over those Romans and other Gentiles。
At least that was what I was told, and what I had believed ever since I was a boy。
So that day, yeah, back to the story, that day we were passing by Jericho。
And everybody cheered for us like what you did just now。
The whole town gathered literally on the two sides of the road just to see Jesus。
After all the miracles and all the healings, you wouldn't be surprised if Jesus is the most popular, famous Jewish man on the planet, right?。
Everybody wants a piece of him。
So sometimes I feel a little bit overwhelmed and oh, that's too much。
And you know, me and my brother James, we volunteered to be Jesus' bodyguards。
Like hey, stop, stop there, we're his security detail。
And we would exercise a little bit of crowd control。
Okay, just let me tell you a fun fact, me and my brother James, we have a nickname。
We're called the sons of thunder, because of our temper I guess。
Anyway, but suddenly that day when we were getting out of Jericho, we heard a voice, a very loud voice that says。
Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me。
Oh, son of David, huh, this guy knew what he was talking about, huh?。
It seems we're not the only one who believe Jesus is the Messiah, because that's what that phrase son of David means。
So I tried to look around, but I don't see who's talking。
And perhaps there was just too many people。
So then someone from the crowd just told me, oh, it's just a beggar, he was probably asking for money。
I'm like, okay, if he thinks Jesus is a rich Messiah, then he must be misguided。
Well, look at us, look at me, do I look rich to you guys?。
I'm not rich, Jesus is not rich。
But all right, anyway, just a beggar, just looking for money, false alarm, let's move on, let's carry on。
We got to go find a place to rest before sunset, you know?。
It's really dangerous out here in the wilderness in Judea。
But just as I was taking a few more steps down the road, that same voice yelled again, son of David, have mercy on me。
And I thought, okay, I'm the bodyguard, I should deal with that。
But before I walked to deal with him, Jesus, he stopped。
I'm like, oh, come on, if someone has any spare food for this guy, let's just give it to him so we can all be on our way。
Come on, come on, I don't have time。
You know, now a glorious journey to Jerusalem, it's going to be delayed。
Who knows what's going to happen in Jerusalem?。
Jesus may actually become king there, you know, and we would have a royal status。
He's messing with our schedule right now, could somebody just take care of him?。
You see, when would the procession of a king be interrupted by some homeless man, right?。
So we just want to go, and Jesus says, call him。
You know, his voice is always so gentle, yet full of authority。
And so we did, we called that guy over。
And a few moments later, we met the guy with a loud voice。
And on top of that, he also had long and dirty hair, he had worn out clothes, and some very unpleasant smell。
Oh, that guy was blind。
So Jesus looked at him and said, "What do you want me to do for you?"。
Wait, what did he just say?。
I immediately turned and looked at my brother James, and he did the same, he just looked at me。
Because the day before, Jesus asked the two of us the exact same question。
See, we were on the journey to Jerusalem, and we knew something big, something important was going to happen。
So of course Jesus mentioned, you know, he was going to suffer and die and all that, we know。
But James and I, we decided to go and talk to Jesus。
And we said, you know, we've been following you for so long, and since the beginning, we were your first disciples。
You know, surely we deserve a front seat in the kingdom of God, right?。
Can I get an amen for that?。
No, none of you agree with me, that's okay。
And so we asked Jesus, "Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask"。
And Jesus asked the same question, "What do you want me to do for you?"。
Well, we shamelessly asked to sit at his right and his left。
Yeah, we want the fame, we want the power, right?。
Come on, we have laid down literally everything to follow Jesus in the last three years。
We were by his side the whole time, and that's what we deserve, that's what we are entitled to, right?。
But look at this blind beggar, what did he do to deserve this?。
What has he done to earn this favor that the Messiah himself would do something for him?。
He hasn't followed Jesus for a single day, he never preached the good news of the kingdom like we did。
He never healed a sick person or drive out a demon like we have, why would he deserve this?。
And I heard he said, "My master, my Lord, I want to see"。
And yet, there he goes, once again, as always, the miracle happened。
And Bartimaeus, he immediately joined the company and followed Jesus。
He became part of us, he became our brother。
And then I realized, Jesus didn't stop to perform a miracle。
Jesus actually was there to call a man。
Just like the day when he called me and my brother James and Peter。
He stopped and performed a miracle for us and called us to follow him。
Whatever Jesus saw in me, he saw in Bartimaeus too。
Who am I to think that I deserve and he doesn't?。
Isn't it only because of Jesus' grace that we are both saved and restored?。
That day, outside the city of Jericho, when Jesus opened the eyes of Bartimaeus, he opened mine too。
While Bartimaeus, he could be physically blind, I, myself, and many other disciples。
We were indeed spiritually blind。
We were blind to who Jesus was and his real mission here on earth。
We were so obsessed with the image of a conquering king。
That we were blind to the suffering servant right in front of our eyes。
We were so obsessed with the success and achievements we want Jesus to give us。
That we were blind to his call, which is to follow his examples and serve those around us。
Our role as his disciples should be, supposed to be, to bring people to him。
Not to stop them from coming to him。
And we've been doing such a poor job。
And no wonder we're also blind to the poor, to the vulnerable, to the marginalized, to the needies around us。
In our spiritual blindness, we only focus on what we can gain in this life。
And we forgot what we could give。
We ignore the marginalized, we say that their problem is not our problem。
What's even worse, when they try to voice out their problems, we silence them。
We tell them this is not the place and time to say these things。
Let's do it later, let's don't do it here, we don't have time for you。
But Jesus, Jesus doesn't stop people from expressing their needs。
Instead, he stops for them, he sees them, he listens, he responds。
Jesus doesn't just want to heal the physically blind。
He also wants to open the eyes of the spiritually blind as well。
What kind of a church are we?。
Are we a spiritually blind church?。
Are we a spiritually blind disciple?。
That we are blind to the needs of those around us。
That we just turn a blind eye and we look away。
Or are we blind to who Jesus really is and what he wants to achieve in this earth?。
Are we spiritually blind that we actually can't see Jesus' heart for the others?。
That day Jesus opened my eyes。
I once was lost, but now I'm found。
I was blind, but now I see。
I know what kind of a disciple I want to be since that day。
I want to be the kind of disciple of Jesus that would stop for people。
That would see people as people。
That would listen to them, that would respond to their need。
And what about you, my friends?。
What kind of a Jesus follower would you want to be?。
I wonder where you find yourself outside the city of Jericho today。
Are you the one sitting at the side of the road?。
Like Bartimaeus。
And you're carrying with you a physical condition perhaps。
Or maybe an emotional or even a relational issue。
And you need to cry out for Jesus' help。
Or perhaps you're one of those standing in the crowd like the disciples。
Suffering from spiritual blindness。
You're either blind to Jesus, his identity and his mission on earth。
Or maybe you're blind to the needs around you。
You know, if you're blind to the needs of the people around you。
That affects not just how you would interact with them。
That affects how God would interact with them through you as well。
So no matter where you are today。
Jesus is here and he wants to heal you and save you。
To zozo you。
All you need is to say, "Have mercy on me, Lord"。
And I'm just wondering right across this room right now。
Who would love to pray this prayer with me?。
I myself, I definitely need to pray this prayer。
Lord, have mercy on me, open my eyes。
I wonder who wants to join me in this prayer。
If that's you, I invite you to stand where you are and close your eyes。
You know, sometimes it doesn't really matter what we're seeing physically。
It matters even more what we can see spiritually。
And Jesus, he's so kind, he's so faithful, he's so loving。
He wants to open your eyes and my eyes here today。
So, church, I can't do this on your behalf。
You must come to him。
I can only show you the way to Jesus。
And you have to be the one to cry out to him。
Have mercy on me, Lord。
Why don't we do it now?。
(Silence)。
Jesus, you didn't just heal Bartimaeus that day。
You didn't just open his physically blind eyes。
You healed your disciples。
You healed their spiritual blindness。
And God, today I pray that you would come into this place and do the same。
Whether it's a physical condition that needs to be zozoed。
Maybe an emotional one, a relational one, a mental one。
Jesus, I pray you would so kindly come and zozo us。
But I also ask you would come and open our eyes。
Especially those of us who are spiritually blind like myself。
That we won't turn a blind eye to the people around us。
Here in Yuen Long, here in Hong Kong。
Or maybe just right next door our neighbours。
The person sitting next to us in the office。
Or when we are on the streets, those who need you。
Father, I pray that we would not just write them off casually。
And we wouldn't just walk past them without even looking at them。
Not in a strange way but。
Father, I pray you would give us your vision, your perspective。
When we are walking the streets of Hong Kong, the streets of Yuen Long。
We would actually be able to see the need。
Or even to listen to them and respond to them。
Come Holy Spirit, help us。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
