Jesus' name, amen.。
- Amen, let's hear it for Carla.。
Thank you, Carla.。
(congregation applauding)。
Well, good morning, everybody.。
It's so good to be back here preaching at the Vine.。
I think you may be aware。
that this is my favorite pulpit in the whole world.。
I mean, not this piece of metal。
with a plastic on top for my iPad, nice as it is,。
but this is my home church, and as the phrase says,。
there is no place like home.。
But there's an even more unique reason。
why today is special.。
Yesterday was my golden wedding anniversary.。
(congregation applauding)。
Yeah.。
Yes, Sandra and I have been married for 50 years.。
Actually, 50 years and one day.。
I know Sandra deserves a medal.。
Go on, say it now, get it over with.。
But remarkably, today's passage in our Ephesian series。
is all about unity in relationships.。
It looks like we planned this all along.。
Today, I'll be looking at relations。
between husbands and wives,。
and obviously, you'll understand。
why I will concentrate on that rather a lot.。
I will look at relationships between children and parents。
and between slaves and masters.。
But to get us going,。
I wanna talk about airport conveyor belts.。
Now, those of you that follow us on social media will know,。
Sandra and I love travel.。
But one thing always mystifies me.。
Why does it always take so long for our luggage to arrive?。
Everyone else's seems to get priority,。
even the times when we have priority label on ours.。
We wait with bated breath,。
looking for ours to come up into the belt.。
But have you noticed, all cases these days look the same.。
So a few years ago, we started a habit。
of tying a red ribbon around our case。
to help us recognize it.。
As an aside, we were at Heathrow Airport a few Decembers ago。
and were pleasantly surprised to see our case,。
complete with red ribbons,。
coming off the conveyor belt early.。
Hallelujah, we said,。
feeling rather pleased with ourselves.。
We went through customs。
and we're in Heathrow Terminal 3。
only to discover we had the wrong case.。
Someone else had had the same idea.。
Not only was their case pretty much identical to ours,。
but I kid you not, it had the same red ribbons.。
Embarrassed, one hasty, red-faced U-turn later,。
we found the real owners.。
Dare I say, relieved real owners,。
as their case, unlike ours,。
was packed with expensive Christmas presents.。
But conveyor belts around the world。
aren't always like Heathrow or Hong Kong.。
And we've experienced some horror stories.。
Conveyor belts breaking down,。
having to wait over an hour for our luggage.。
Now, unfortunately, this sermon's come back to bite me。
because I wrote this and then last week。
we went to Seoul in Korea and guess what?。
The conveyor belt broke down.。
Or airports that have just given up。
and they end up dumping the luggage on the tarmac。
for us to sort through, home a fan.。
But there's a picture here.。
Relationships can be a bit like airport conveyor systems.。
The passage we're gonna look at today will show us。
that a marriage will run smoothly。
if the wife fulfills God's directions。
and is subject to her husband,。
and if the husband loves his wife as himself.。
A family will run smoothly if the children honor and obey,。
and if the parents do not provoke their children to wrath。
but teach them about God.。
The workplace runs smoothly。
if the employees do good work and follow instructions。
and if the employers treat the employees well.。
However, if someone doesn't follow the biblical instructions。
the whole machine is impeded or stopped.。
The luggage, as it were, is left on the tarmac.。
Now the key to realizing that we need to fulfill。
our places in life, whatever those places may be,。
as to the Lord, we will be seeing this in this passage。
that we are to fulfill those relationships as to the Lord.。
That means we need to act as if we were。
in that relationship directly with God.。
Now you probably don't look at your boss。
and think of him as God,。
nor do you regard your spouse or children。
or parents in that way.。
Yet if we would look at them as to the Lord,。
no doubt we would find it easier。
to behave in a godly manner.。
Let us make sure that we are not jamming up。
the conveyor belts of our lives.。
But enough of conveyor belts, let's get on to the passage.。
Wives, submit to your husbands as you do to the Lord.。
Now all the guys are wishing this is the finish。
of the reading today, by the way.。
Wives, submit yourself to your husbands。
as you do to the Lord.。
For the husband is the head of the wife。
as Christ is the head of the church,。
his body of which he is the savior.。
Now as the church submits to Christ,。
so also wives should submit to their husbands in everything.。
Bad news, husbands, that's not the end of the reading.。
Husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church。
and gave himself up for her to make her holy,。
cleansing her by the washing with water through the word,。
to present her to himself as a radiant church。
without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish,。
but holy and blameless.。
In this same way, husbands ought to love their wives。
as their own bodies.。
He who loves his wife loves himself.。
After all, no one even hated their own body,。
but they feed and care for their body。
just as Christ does for the church,。
for we are all members of one body.。
For this reason, a man will leave his father and mother。
and be united to his wife,。
and the two will become one flesh.。
This is a profound mystery,。
but I am talking about Christ and his church.。
However, each one of you also must love his wife。
as he loves himself, and the wife must respect her husband.。
Those first few words in this passage,。
wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands,。
are possibly the top sentence in the whole Bible。
to be taken out of context,。
usually by men,。
men trying to force their wives。
into an ungodly and unbiblical submission.。
Let me say right here and now,。
this is never okay, and this is sinful.。
As a result, on the other side,。
it has been strongly resisted by women over the centuries。
and led to a high degree of controversy and conflict.。
So what I wanna do now is attempt to put it into context.。
Firstly, some background.。
The Ephesians were familiar。
with the Roman social order of their day。
in which the husband had full authority。
over the wife and children and owned the slaves.。
Slaves were ruled until they were freed,。
which may not happen.。
Male children were under the father's authority。
until they became adults.。
Women and female children。
were under the man's authority all their lives.。
You'll notice that Paul did not try。
to change the social order,。
but he addressed the proper attitudes for living within it.。
Now, while the social order today, praise God I say,。
may be structured differently,。
the principles, the principles still apply.。
But what I wanna do first, I wanna ask you a question.。
If I use the word submission,。
what comes to mind?。
Maybe yielding, compliance, or even capitulation?。
But what if I told you。
that Jesus submitted himself to others?。
Philippians 2, five to eight,。
in your relationships with one another,。
have the same mindset as Jesus Christ,。
who being in very nature God did not consider equality。
with God something to be used to his own advantage.。
Rather, he made himself nothing。
by taking the very nature of a servant,。
being made in human likeness,。
and being found in appearance as a man,。
he humbled himself by becoming obedient to death.。
Yes, even death on a cross,。
which we celebrated a few moments ago.。
And what if I told you。
that Paul instructed followers of Jesus。
to submit to one another?。
Now, early in this chapter,。
Paul says in verses 18 and 21,。
the verse which precedes the first about submission of wives,。
he says this in verse 18,。
but be filled with the Spirit.。
And then in verse 21,。
submitting to one another out of reference to Christ.。
So what I wanna do now is put this passage into context.。
In verse 18, Paul is addressing spirit-filled believers.。
And he is saying, in effect,。
if you are filled with the Holy Spirit,。
you will, in verse 21,。
submit to Christ by submitting to each other.。
And in submitting to each other,。
verse 22, wives, submit to your husbands.。
And as part of your submitting to each other,。
in verse 25 onwards,。
husbands submit to wives by loving them。
as Christ loved the church.。
But we have to realize,。
we have to recognize that submission。
normally carries with it a negative reaction.。
Have you ever thought of why that is?。
Why do we think of submission as negative?。
If Jesus modeled it and commended it,。
if Paul instructed us to do it,。
if it's a result of being filled with the Spirit,。
shouldn't we actually desire it?。
Paul gave two reasons for wives to submit to their husbands.。
Number one, Jesus is the head of the church,。
and the husband, as the head of the home,。
is head of the wife.。
But look, and guys, this is important.。
The apostles' instructions to the husbands。
were twice as long as those to the wives.。
And the central theme of all of this was love.。
(pause)。
This perspective presented a sharp contrast。
to Roman society where a wife。
was considered the husband's property.。
A husband was directed to demonstrate his love for his wife。
by loving her sacrificially,。
just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her.。
And Jesus gave his all.。
The well-being of the wife was to be of primary importance,。
just as Jesus suffered to provide the needs of the church.。
The man was to care for his wife as he did his own body,。
even as the Lord loved the church.。
What an elevated view of marriage Paul presented.。
He went on to state that this relationship。
is a picture of relationship between Christ and the church.。
What a responsibility that places on a Christian couple.。
As I said earlier, some seem to assume。
that these biblical instructions to husbands and wives。
entitle the man to be domineering。
and require the wife to be subservient.。
Such assumptions could hardly be further from God's intent。
for he values each soul equally.。
My friends, submission is a choice.。
The decision to yield one's will to another.。
When Sandra and I do marriage preparation,。
we always point out that if a husband loves his wife。
the way that Christ loves the church。
and he gave his life for her,。
a wife would have no problem submitting to him.。
That's true.。
A husband will love his wife as Christ loved the church。
and gave himself for it.。
A wife would have no problem submitting.。
I love the way the message,。
we don't read the message version very much in church,。
but it expressed it wonderfully to me.。
Wives, understand and support your husbands。
in ways that show your support for Christ.。
The husband provides leadership to his wife。
in the way that Christ does to his church,。
not by domineering, but by cherishing.。
Just as the church submits to Christ。
as he exercises such leadership,。
wives should likewise submit to their husbands.。
This, my friends, is the model for Christian marriage.。
And look, I'm not pretending marriage is easy.。
After 50 years, no, sorry, 50 years and one day,。
it is still not easy.。
We are fallen creatures.。
We are sinners.。
However, if a husband and a wife will both submit to Christ,。
they're on the right track.。
I have an omission that might shock you.。
(audience laughing)。
I've been married twice.。
That's right, you heard it.。
I've been married twice to the same woman.。
Let me explain.。
When we were married on the 6th of July, 1974,。
at Sidcup Baptist Church in the UK,。
we would not have considered ourselves。
to be committed Christian.。
Our priorities were elsewhere, home, family, jobs, sport,。
noticeably Tottenham Hotspur Football Club.。
And didn't England do well last night, yeah.。
Less than a decade later,。
we recommitted our lives to Jesus Christ.。
And everything changed for us.。
Our priorities were turned upside down.。
I had a new wife.。
Sandra had a new husband.。
And after 40 years later, we can say,。
there is no comparison with married life,。
with Jesus at the center, to that without.。
To be fair, our marriage had been good.。
But this was so much better.。
I wanna pause now to pray.。
I realize there might be people here today。
who've come here and you've,。
maybe you've got spouses that are not following Jesus.。
I'd like to pray for them now.。
I also know, because I pray for it quite a lot,。
there are a lot of people here today。
who are seeking spouses.。
And yeah, I think this is better than Tinder, right?。
We're gonna pray, all right?。
So let's close our eyes and let's,。
if you're not in these categories,。
be praying for the people who are.。
Those people who have been faithfully following Jesus,。
but their spouse is not at the moment.。
We just pray for that spouse now.。
Lord, we pray for the light of your Holy Spirit。
to come upon them.。
Whatever they're doing now, they may be here in church,。
they may be at home, they may be watching online.。
Lord, I just pray a conviction of the Holy Spirit.。
And I pray in this place,。
we will see,。
we will see a flood of people。
where one spouse is following Jesus,。
become couples who are serving Jesus together.。
And I wanna pray for every person here today。
who is single but doesn't want to be.。
You've heard their heart.。
Lord, I just pray。
we give this to you, we leave this at the foot of your cross.。
Lord, I know I'm always trying to be a matchmaker.。
Lord, I'm not very good at it, but you are.。
Lord, I pray that you would just。
have your way, Lord, amongst our singles,。
singles in our society,。
and provide them with godly husbands and godly wives.。
In Jesus' name.。
Amen, I say amen to that, yeah, it's worth saying amen.。
Now, Paul then moves on to instructions。
for parents and children.。
He says this, "Children, obey your parents in the Lord."。
I think, again, we'd like the reading to finish there,。
wouldn't we?。
"Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.。
"Honor your father or mother,。
"which is the first commandment with a promise,。
"so that it may go well with you,。
"and that you may enjoy a long life on the earth."。
Fathers, and I think we can include mothers in this,。
do not exasperate your children.。
Instead, bring them up in the training。
and instruction of the Lord.。
Children were told to obey,。
because that was God's command.。
They were also directed to honor their parents.。
And by the way, those of us that have left home,。
that honor of parents doesn't stop。
the moment you leave home.。
If you've got elderly parents,。
you're still told to honor your parents.。
Honor goes beyond obedience,。
because it shows love and respect.。
Again, it's not very popular in our 21st century culture.。
I'll do what I like,。
has become the culture of today.。
But Paul gives us three reasons。
for children to obey their parents.。
Number one, verse one, because it is right.。
Verse two, because it is according to Scripture.。
And verse three, because it is accompanied。
by a promise of blessing.。
But what I wanna hone on in is Paul's statement this way.。
Fathers, do not exasperate your children.。
Obedience doesn't come naturally,。
so it must be taught by parents through discipline.。
But if we discipline in a spirit of wrath,。
it will result in provoking our child to anger.。
And we get this word exasperating.。
I don't know how many times you use that word,。
it's not in a common Linguist language.。
But to exasperate is to frustrate someone intensely,。
to make something feel futile,。
to provoke them to push their buttons.。
The Greek word literally means。
to make angry from close beside.。
Now the point of both of these verses is clear.。
While we are in authority over our children's lives,。
that authority is not absolute.。
We are bigger, we are more powerful.。
We can sin against them.。
We have louder voices.。
We have an adult mind, experiences, and vocabulary.。
And as a result of all that, God in verse four。
commands us to examine ourselves.。
We are not to use our authority haphazardly。
or in a way that injures them.。
Given what exasperation is not, what exactly is it?。
Well, I've come up with a list of ways。
that parents can exasperate their children.。
This is one that I observe here in Hong Kong and elsewhere.。
The first one won't surprise you。
is to have a favorite and let it be known.。
I need to say favoritism by a parent or a grandparent。
is painful.。
We have two sons and five grandchildren。
and people always ask us the question,。
which one is your favorite?。
I say all of them.。
But don't we show it sometimes?。
You know, you got two kids, one gets grade A's,。
the other one gets grade C's.。
Show that you love the one, gets grade A's the most.。
Or that one gets picked for the school team.。
We're not to have favorites.。
On the other hand, scolding.。
We see this a lot, don't we?。
Rather than taking action, scolding is loud, demeaning words.。
I have to say, scolding over a long time injures a child.。
Number three on the same lines really,。
being extremely inconsistent in discipline.。
All of us are inconsistent,。
but to fly off the handle without a plan is unfair.。
When we make up the rules on the spot。
and enforce them when we feel like it, it is also unjust.。
And that really links to number four, anger out of control.。
Anger is really at the root of many of these sins.。
We must get it under control.。
Disciplining out of anger is totally wrong.。
Fifthly, not being willing to ask forgiveness.。
We can give the impression to our children。
that we are never wrong.。
If your parents hear today one word。
to put into your vocabulary, sorry.。
I'm sorry.。
Sinful words that attack their identity.。
We've all heard it, you're a failure.。
You'll never amount to anything.。
Words that attack their identity are satanic and wicked.。
Andrew spoke about this last week, didn't he?。
Words that were spoken over him by a school teacher。
36 years ago took root.。
He's dealing with it now.。
Number seven, being emotionally distant.。
Individuals can withhold affection。
or salt to get their own way.。
Rather than talking about a conflict outright,。
they tend to withdraw when they get on their devices.。
Number eight, pushing for achievement beyond reason.。
Are we any tiger moms or tiger dads here?。
Crazy Rich Asians, you like that one, I loved it.。
As parents, we are called to encourage。
and challenge our children.。
But we need to realize their capacity.。
We can be too demanding and never satisfied.。
Number nine, being overbearing,。
overprotecting or domineering.。
Children need to grow into being their own person.。
When our words, our will, our personality。
constantly overrides theirs,。
they will be rightly frustrated.。
I love number 10, I see a lot of this in Hong Kong.。
Nitpicking, nitpicking, constant critique,。
criticism of small things.。
Wow, I think my observation in Hong Kong。
is that one of the things as parents,。
what we do is very rarely say, I love you, I'm proud of you.。
We show our love by telling them。
the things they've done wrong.。
We're not giving our child a feeling of acceptance,。
but pointing out everything that is wrong。
or could be improved.。
Number 11, again, we see this a lot, comparison.。
Children have different gifts and talents.。
If we don't recognize those differences,。
but instead insist that they be like a sibling。
or ourselves or somebody else,。
we are setting up for long-term anger.。
And of course, the last one is any sexual,。
physical, or emotional abuse.。
Does that list convict you?。
It does me.。
So I wanna pause and pray for our children now.。
I'm gonna ask Sandra to come up.。
Pray for our children,。
and let's use this to repent for our own shortcomings。
and pray for the children that God's given us。
in our families and in this church.。
Let's pray together.。
Close your eyes.。
- Father, we just come to you now in this moment.。
May we all say sorry.。
Sorry, the things that have been accepted by us as children.。
Sometimes it's us saying sorry to the adults in our lives,。
but may we take that moment just to say sorry。
if any of these things reflect in our hearts.。
I pray for the parents that we know。
that have said these things to us.。
May we leave those things of hurts and wounds。
at your throne room now,。
and help us to go forward for the children。
that we come across in our communities, in our families,。
that we can change our mindset to encourage them,。
to say that we're proud of them, that we love them,。
and have that moment that we can hear them speak to us。
and encourage us as we listen to them and vice versa.。
The children are gifts to us for a season.。
They're only with us.。
They grow very quickly,。
and we want to see the best of the best。
of these children of humans that are given to us for a season。
but you knew them right from the beginning。
in the mother's womb,。
and we want the very best for those children.。
And remember that we're all your children.。
We're your sons and daughters that we wanna be guided。
and love unconditionally like you love us unconditionally.。
Help us to love unconditionally.。
Help us to have a mindset of change.。
If we struggle in any of these areas,。
we ask that you help us go forward from today。
with a positive and a loving attitude in our lives。
to children, whatever age they are,。
whether they're young, whether they're growing up,。
whether they're youth, whether they're young adults,。
they all have and want that love to come from the parents。
and the communities that they're brought up in.。
So Father, I just pray, Father, today,。
we honor you that you're our Father,。
and we want you to guide us afresh.。
So bless everyone in this room。
and all the children that are out in Sunday church now。
that may they get the message today。
like we are getting the message from you,。
that you love us unconditionally.。
Help us to love unconditionally and to put into others。
and replicate what you've given us。
in a positive attitude, in Jesus' name, amen.。
- Amen, thank you, Sandra.。
So we've looked at submission between husbands and wives.。
We looked at submission between parents and children.。
And lastly, Paul addressed slaves and masters.。
I wanna read it to you.。
Verse five, "Slaves, obey your earthly masters。
"with respect and fear, with sincerity of heart,。
"just as you would obey Christ.。
"Obey them not only to win favor when their eye is on you,。
"but as slaves of Christ,。
"doing the will of God from your heart.。
"Serve wholeheartedly, as though you were serving the Lord,。
"not people, because you know that the Lord。
"will reward each one for whatever good they do,。
"whether they are slave or free.。
"And masters, treat your slaves in the same way.。
"Do not threaten them, since you know that he is both。
"their master and yours in heaven,。
"and that there is no favoritism with him."。
I think the principles that are outlined here。
can be employed, can be applied to employees。
and employers today.。
So when it says servants, I think we can read employees.。
They were to labor as if they were serving Christ,。
because that was and is God's will.。
When you go into work tomorrow,。
serve as if you are serving Christ.。
God himself would give the reward for such service.。
And masters, employers, were challenged。
to remember the Christian principles。
and treat their servants, treat their employees。
with the proper attitudes and concern for their welfare。
and to avoid threats.。
I think taking this whole lesson together,。
I think what the apostle Paul is actually saying,。
that Christianity brings unity。
and blessings in relationships。
by a change of heart, resulting in godly attitudes,。
and not by a change of social structure.。
His desire was that the Ephesians would fulfill their roles。
as God had appointed them,。
and that the results would benefit both them and the gospel.。
None of God's instructions were meant to be degrading.。
Rather, they were and are a guide。
to living a blessed godly life.。
God's direction for his followers。
are direct opposites of natural human inclinations.。
Let me say it again.。
God's direction for his followers。
and for their attitudes are direct opposites。
of natural human inclination.。
A change of heart is essential。
to truly follow his commands,。
and then his power and his grace are necessary。
to apply his instructions to daily living.。
Our workplaces are our mission fields.。
You don't need to go to the ends of the earth。
to go on mission.。
You are going on a mission tomorrow morning.。
Our workplaces are ripe for the gospel.。
I'll be honest with you.。
I reach more people for Christ as a businessman。
than I do as a pastor.。
I spend most of my time these days with Christians.。
So what we're gonna do now, we're gonna pause and pray.。
I want you to pray.。
I want to get a picture of your boss.。
You've probably not done that very much.。
Your boss, your bosses, your colleagues at work.。
We're gonna omit our shortcomings。
as representatives of Christ in the workplace.。
We're gonna pray for God to really work through us.。
If you're a boss here today, pray for your employees.。
You know, they will see Christ in you.。
They really will by the way you treat them.。
Let's pray.。
Let's pray.。
Father, we thank you for the people you've given us.。
For those of us that are employed or working,。
we thank you for our boss.。
We thank you for our workmates.。
For those of us that are in a position of influence,。
Lord, we pray for those who are under us,。
our staff, our colleagues.。
I pray that even tomorrow morning Lord,。
we're beginning of a new mission trip.。
Lord, I pray that Lord,。
that you would just give us the right attitudes.。
Lord, that people would see Christ through us.。
Whether we're a boss or an employee.。
And Lord, we repent of times in our lives, Lord,。
where we've shown the wrong attitude at work.。
Where we've not represented you well.。
Forgive us, Lord, and help us, Lord.。
Help us, Lord, to be your soldier and servant。
in our workplace.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
As we come to the end of this today,。
I told you a lot of things you've got to do。
and you probably would say,。
look, it's too hard, can't do it.。
I cannot do it.。
And I got to say, you're absolutely right.。
All of these things I've been talking about today,。
you can't do.。
But you got to remember that this passage。
comes immediately after the instruction.。
And it is an instruction.。
Not a suggestion.。
By Paul to be filled with the Holy Spirit.。
When he says be filled with the Holy Spirit,。
it's a present continuous tense.。
It means continually be filled with the Holy Spirit.。
And I'm going to pray now for us, all of us,。
that we will be filled with the Holy Spirit today.。
And that that Holy Spirit will work in our relationships,。
whether with our spouses, with our children,。
or our parents, or in the workplace tomorrow.。
But believe me, you cannot do this on your own.。
Holy Spirit needs to come and to fill us.。
So as the worship band comes back, can we all stand?。
I realize that's quite a lot。
we've had to go through this morning.。
But I want to come before God now.。
And say, Lord, I need you.。
I need you to fill me.。
Just put your hands in front of you.。
Lord, we are a church here at the Vine。
that believes your word.。
We take you at your word.。
And even though in that passage today,。
there were some difficult phrases,。
some difficult things for some of our minds to comprehend.。
Your word tells us that how we can be filled。
with your Holy Spirit is to ask you.。
And we are your people, Lord.。
As I look out in front of me,。
different faces, different races, different backgrounds.。
Some married, some single.。
Some parents, some children, some neither.。
And we are your people.。
And we are your people.。
Some children, some neither.。
Some bosses, some employees.。
What we have in common, Lord,。
is we need unity in our relationships.。
It's what we've been studying in Ephesians。
these past few weeks.。
And I want to say, Lord, I cannot do this.。
I need your Holy Spirit.。
So as we stretch our hands out, we say, come Holy Spirit.。
Come and fill us afresh.。
Guys, just bear with me.。
Just do this.。
If you don't feel like doing it, just come and do this.。
'Cause I think it's so important for us to do this.。
Stretch out and ask God to come into our relationships.。
I want to see better husbands.。
I want to see better wives, better parents, better children,。
better bosses, better employees, but it can only be done。
with the empowerment of the Holy Spirit.。
Don't you go from this sermon and say, must try harder。
and go home and try harder.。
You will fail.。
Oh yes, it'll work tomorrow and the day after possibly.。
But if you do it by must try harder, you're gonna fail.。
If you allow yourself to be captivated。
by the Spirit of God, if you allow yourself。
to be continually filled with the Spirit of God,。
I'm not saying it's easy.。
But it's the only way.。
Holy Spirit come, fill me afresh.。
Fill us afresh.。
Fill the husbands here, the wives, the parents,。
the children, the bosses, the workers.。
Fill us all with your Holy Spirit.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
