reflecting the boundless limits of God's creativity as glory to him.。
A place where people gather, hungry for the presence of God,。
and passionate to see this invade all aspects of their lives.。
Where they seek to develop an intelligent, spiritual faith,。
rooted in God's word and driven with prayer.。
A church that does not make its Sunday services the exclamation mark of its existence,。
but instead the comma in its ongoing sentence.。
A time of service, love, and engagement that inspires and emboldens all equally。
for the conversation that lies ahead.。
A church that cares, disciples, rebuilds, renews.。
This is our city.。
This is our church.。
This is our home.。
Good morning and welcome.。
Welcome to the Vineyulong.。
It is so great to see you all.。
Today is an exciting day.。
Does anyone know why today is an exciting day?。
Yes, we can eat.。
We're going to break the fast.。
I'm ready.。
Hey, on that note, I hope that you have been, as we've been setting aside time。
for 21 days to fast, to seek God personally, but also corporately as a church family,。
that you have encountered God in fresh and new ways.。
And I hope that you have been encouraged and strengthened in your faith.。
I know that I have.。
And I've been so encouraged by being able to do this together as a church.。
I've been so encouraged by that.。
Because if you try to do it on your own, it's a lot harder.。
So today we're going to, in a moment, enter into worship, but I want to invite you to。
prepare our hearts.。
So let's quiet down for a moment.。
There's been a lot going on during this week.。
You know, maybe it's been a good one, maybe it's been a tough one.。
And I just want to ask you to just give to the Lord right now, whatever's on.。
His word says that we can cast our anxieties on Him, because He cares for us.。
So let's do that right now.。
Let's just share whatever's been weighing on our hearts.。
Let's just give that to Him right now.。
I want to invite everyone to stand and I'll pray for us.。
Jesus, we thank you so much that we can know you, that you make yourself known to us.。
We thank you for this fasting season and how you've met us, how you spoke to us, how you。
gave revelation to us, direction to us.。
We also thank you that we could set aside this time to step with you into 2024, not。
to run ahead on our own strength and our own wisdom, but to really just say, Lord, we want。
to do it with you.。
We want to hear from you.。
We want to be led by you.。
We want to do it by your spirit, by your power, not out of our own strength.。
And so right now we want to give you praise, Lord.。
May our worship be pleasing and honoring to you.。
I pray this in your name, Jesus. Amen. Let's worship.。
Amazing love that welcomes me, the kindness of mercy.。
God, you're so good.。
You're so good to me.。
God, you're so good.。
You're so good to me.。
I am blessed.。
I am blessed.。
I am called.。
I am healed.。
I am whole.。
I am saved.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
I am blessed.。
I am called.。
I am healed.。
I am whole.。
I am saved.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
I am blessed.。
I am called.。
I am healed.。
I am whole.。
I am saved.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
I am blessed.。
I am called.。
I am healed.。
I am whole.。
I am saved.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
I am called.。
I am healed.。
I am whole.。
I am saved.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
I am called.。
I am healed.。
I am whole.。
I am saved.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
I am called.。
I am healed.。
I am whole.。
I am saved.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
I am called.。
I am healed.。
I am whole.。
I am saved.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
I am called.。
I am healed.。
I am whole.。
I am saved.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
I am healed.。
I am saved.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
I am healed.。
I am saved.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
Jesus, may I be favored, anointed, filled in your name.。
I am blessed.。
You are.。
He won't fail.。
He won't fail.。
You are.。
And rain came, wind blew, and my house was built on you.。
I'm safe with you.。
I'm going to make it through.。
The rain came.。
Rain came, wind blew, my house was built on you.。
And I'm safe with you.。
I'm going to make it through.。
Oh, the rain came.。
Rain came, wind blew, my house was built on you.。
And I'm safe with you.。
I'm safe with you.。
I'm going to make it through.。
Oh, the rain came.。
Rain came, wind blew, my house was built on you.。
And I'm safe with you.。
I'm going to make it through.。
I'm going to make it.。
I'm going to make it through.。
Because my house was built on you.。
I'm going to make it.。
I'm going to make it through.。
Because my house was built on you.。
I'm going to make it.。
I'm going to make it through.。
Because my house is built on you.。
I'm going to make it.。
I'm going to make it through.。
Because my house is built on you.。
Christ is my foundation.。
The rock on which I stand, when everything around me is shaken.。
I've never been more glad that I put my faith in Jesus.。
He's never let me down.。
He's faithful through generations.。
So why would he fail now?。
He won't.。
He won't.。
He won't fail.。
He won't fail.。
He won't.。
No, he won't.。
He won't.。
He won't fail.。
He won't fail.。
He won't.。
No, he won't.。
He won't.。
He won't.。
He won't fail.。
He won't fail.。
He won't.。
No, he won't.。
He won't.。
He won't fail.。
He won't fail.。
He won't.。
[MUSIC - "HE WON'T FAIL"]。
[MUSIC - "HE WON'T FAIL"]。
Oh, Lord my God, when I in awesome wonder。
consider all the works thy hath made,。
I see the star.。
I hear the rolling thunder by Passuwack.。
The yule beavers display, and sings my soul.。
And sings my soul, my Savior God, to thee.。
How great thou art.。
How great thou art.。
Oh, how great thou art.。
How great thou art.。
And sings my soul, my Savior God, to thee.。
How great thou art.。
How great thou art.。
How great thou art.。
And when I think that God his Son not spare him,。
sent him to die, I scarce can make it in.。
And on the cross my burden gladly bearing,。
he bled and died to take away my sin.。
And sings my soul, my Savior God, to thee.。
How great thou art.。
How great thou art.。
And sings my soul.。
And sings my soul, my Savior God, to thee.。
How great thou art.。
How great thou art.。
How great thou art.。
Then I shall bow with shouts of acclamation,。
and take me home where joy shall fill my heart.。
Then I shall bow in humble adoration,。
and there proclaim, my God, how great thou art,。
when Christ shall come, when Christ shall come.。
With shouts of acclamation and take me home,。
where joy shall fill my heart.。
Then I shall bow in humble adoration,。
and there proclaim, my God, how great thou art.。
Then sings my soul.。
Then sings my soul, my Savior God, to thee.。
How great thou art.。
How great thou art.。
Oh, how great thou art.。
How great thou art.。
Then sings my soul, my Savior God, to thee.。
How great thou art.。
How great thou art.。
How great thou art.。
Then sings my soul.。
Then sings my soul, my Savior God, to thee.。
How great thou art.。
How great thou art.。
Oh, how great thou art.。
How great thou art.。
Then sings my soul, my Savior God, to thee.。
How great thou art.。
How great thou art.。
Lord, we praise you.。
And we are humbled by your faithfulness,。
that you are faithful to us.。
You never fail us.。
Thank you, Jesus, for laying down your life for us。
so that we can be forgiven, that we can have new life.。
Thank you for loving us in such an incredible way.。
Lord, and we are humbled, and we are in awe.。
And we declare and we confess our faith in you.。
So we give you all the praise.。
And we pray all this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Thank you, worship team and production team,。
for so beautifully leading us.。
You may be seated.。
Hey, right now we have a celebration.。
And it is a child dedication.。
So I want to invite Joshua and Esther and Deborah and family。
and friends to come on up.。
So they're getting ready.。
And friends, you can already come up if you know them.。
We have a tradition that we just stand with them.。
So if you know Joshua, if you know Deborah,。
if you're a family member, just come on up.。
Oh, this is like a grand entrance right here.。
Yeah, come on up.。
If you know them, come on up and let's stand together here.。
All right, there's Deborah and--。
Wow.。
And baby Esther, so beautiful.。
Yeah, you can stand up here.。
Yeah.。
Wow.。
What a precious baby girl.。
So this is Joshua, Deborah, Esther.。
We also have Joshua's mom right there, who came from Nigeria--。
Yes.。
--to support them with the birth of the child.。
And so hey, now biblically, the reason。
why we sell a child dedication or why we practice this。
is because this is actually something that's been happening。
throughout biblical history.。
There's a Hannah who dedicated Samuel to the Lord.。
There's Joseph and Mary who dedicated Jesus.。
And so it's a way of saying everything we have。
is a gift and a blessing from God,。
and we want to give this to you.。
And so this is what Joshua and Deborah are saying about Esther,。
that she is a beautiful and precious gift from God.。
And they want to offer her to the Lord and just say, Lord,。
we want you to bless her.。
And we want to-- yeah, our heart is for her to know you.。
And so that's what we're celebrating.。
So what we're going to do is we have three questions。
for three different groups of people.。
So first, I have a question for mom and dad.。
Then I have a question for family and friends.。
And then afterwards, I have actually a question。
for the whole congregation.。
And so let me ask you the first question.。
So will you raise Esther in an atmosphere。
of God's unconditional love?。
Will you teach Esther to the best of your ability。
the ways she should go?。
Will you teach Esther about Jesus Christ and his love。
for all humanity?。
And will you pray for Esther to be a child。
that will be used for God's glory?。
If so, please respond, "I will."。
Yes, we will.。
We will.。
Yes.。
[applause]。
Hi.。
Aw, thank you.。
Okay, this question is for friends and family.。
Will you commit to supporting Joshua and Deborah。
in this journey of parenthood?。
Will you be patient with them, listen to them,。
help them when they need support?。
Will you also be models and examples to Christ's love。
that Esther grows up in an environment, in a community。
that will always point her towards her creator?。
If so, please respond, "We will."。
We will.。
All right.。
[applause]。
And this one is for all of you, and I really want to hear。
aloud, "We will," okay?。
So will we as brothers and sisters in Christ。
remember as often as we can to pray for this new family,。
to reach out and support whenever appropriate and necessary?。
Would we be a church that welcomes children。
just as Jesus did?。
If so, please respond, "We will."。
We will.。
Amen.。
[applause]。
And so what we're going to do now is we're going to pray for them.。
First I'm going to invite family and friends just to start。
praying over them all at the same time, and then Francesca。
will pray, and then I will pray a prayer as well.。
So let's do that right now, and you also, let's carry them。
in prayer as well.。
You can stretch out your hands towards them.。
[praying in Tongues]。
[praying in Tongues]。
Heavenly Father, we thank you for Esther, this beautiful。
and precious gift you've given to Joshua and Deborah。
and the family and our community.。
We lift up Esther to you and pray that she'll grow and feed。
on your word and that she will choose a personal relationship。
with you.。
May she be so in tune with your heart that she can distinguish。
your loving voice from the voices of this world.。
And your word says that the pure in heart are blessed.。
I also pray this child will yearn for a life of purity and。
holiness and that the joy of her heart will come from walking。
in steps with you.。
And Lord, I pray that she may grow in grace and knowledge of。
your ways and that she will have a sense of awe and respect in。
your presence, Lord.。
And Lord, we pray for blessings and protection over this family.。
May you guide Joshua and Deborah and the family to seek your。
heart and to bring up this child in your ways.。
And thank you, Lord.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
Lord Jesus, I also pray for Deborah, for Joshua.。
As they are parent to Esther, I pray that you bless them, that。
you give them wisdom on how to raise Esther in the knowledge of。
you.。
I pray that you give them the grace and the strength that。
parenting takes, that you give them patience when they need。
patience.。
I pray also that you bless their marriage, that you strengthen。
them as a couple, that you learn, that you continue to grow。
them deeper in love for each other and deeper in love for。
you.。
I pray that you allow them to be encouragement to each other.。
But Lord, I also want to pray especially Esther on this。
special day.。
I thank you for her, for this precious gift that she is to you.。
I pray for your anointing and blessing and for your Holy。
Spirit's filling of her.。
I pray that she will know your love.。
I pray that you will do her a favor in her life.。
And we are so grateful for her.。
And we celebrate this life that you have given to her.。
And so we pray this in your name, Jesus, amen.。
Amen.。
[Applause]。
Yes.。
What a joyous occasion.。
Congratulations.。
So cute.。
It's so little.。
Yeah.。
So by the way, since we do have a lot of children and babies, if。
you do want to dedicate your child, your baby to the Lord,。
you can just let Pastor Ivan or myself know and we can help。
arrange a time to do that.。
We want to at this point in time welcome anyone here who is here。
for the first time today.。
If you don't mind just slipping up your hand, we just want to。
say hi.。
A little yes, welcome.。
It's great to have you.。
Thank you for joining us.。
If you would like to connect with us, there's a QR code.。
You can -- yeah, let us know how we can help you find footing。
here in this community.。
Also right now, as we do every Sunday, I want to pray for you。
kids.。
I want to pray for your time in K4C.。
So if you see a child, let's stretch out our hands and let's。
pray for them.。
Jesus, we thank you for every single child that is here.。
We thank you that you love every single one of them.。
We pray that they would come to know your love, that you would。
bless them as they go into K4C, that they will grow in the。
knowledge of you, that will form their own relationship with you.。
We also pray for a great time, that they have a great time of。
the day.。
So parents, you may bring your children to K4C.。
We have two to five -- three to five years and six to 12 years。
over here.。
If you have a young baby, you're also welcome to go on the crash。
the service is being streamed live from there as well.。
So during this time while the parents are doing that, let's。
take a moment to say hi to the people next to you.。
Say hello, get to know them, introduce yourselves.。
We'll be right back.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
>> All right.。
Time to bring things back.。
There's several things that we want to keep you in the loop on.。
One thing that I am very excited today is bring your own lunch.。
Yes, it's happening today.。
After the service.。
If you don't know about it, it's okay, you go outside, get food,。
get a beverage of your choice and come bring it back and hang。
out, meet people.。
Also part of our culture with that too is we always want to。
talk to one or two people we don't know.。
Just connect with new people.。
Let's do that during our bring your own lunch.。
Let's talk to one or two people we don't know.。
This is part of our DNA, part of what we do.。
So that's happening at 1 o'clock following our service.。
Then we have a lunch.。
So that's happening at 1 o'clock following our service.。
Then we have alpha training coming up.。
So I'm curious, who here has ever participated in an alpha course?。
All right.。
So quite a few of you are familiar with it.。
So if you have enjoyed it, been blessed by that, I want to invite。
you to volunteer.。
There's different roles.。
You can scan a QR code and can see in what ways you can help and。
serve with that.。
The training for that is February 4th, 2 to 4 p.m.。
So do consider joining that.。
Also alpha, if you're not familiar with what alpha is, what is this。
even that you're talking about?。
Alpha is a ten-week course.。
It has basically three components.。
First, you eat together.。
So it's Wednesday nights, 730 to 930, starting February 21st.。
You eat a meal together.。
Then you watch a video that talks about one relevant topic, connected。
with the life, about importance that's important to our lives.。
And then you discuss it in a safe environment where you can just share。
your thoughts.。
And it's a great way to explore the Christian faith.。
So if that's something that's relevant for you, you can share it.。
And then you can also share it with your friends.。
So it's a great way to explore the Christian faith.。
So if that's something that's relevant for you, and you've maybe been。
wondering about what does it mean to be a Christian, I want to encourage。
you to sign up for the alpha itself.。
Maybe also you grew up in a Christian church, but haven't been in a church。
for a very long time.。
You haven't really thought through things as an adult or so about faith.。
Also great.。
I want to encourage you to sign up for that.。
And I want to encourage us, if you have friends that you can ask, you can。
pray, you can ask God to maybe highlight two people to you that you could。
invite that could benefit from this safe space of connecting with new people。
and of exploring Jesus.。
I want to encourage you to invite them to alpha.。
So we're going to be, yeah, inviting friends as well.。
So right now we're going to transition into a time of tithes and offerings.。
So welcome team, you can come up and can start passing the baskets.。
I want to just say thank you.。
You know, this past month there's been a lot of new people that have been。
giving, and it's been a blessing.。
So thank you so much for your generosity and for giving and for helping us as。
a church community to do this work that God is calling us to do of facilitating。
all of this, but also loving and serving our neighborhood.。
So thank you so much for your generosity in this.。
As you can see, there's different ways to give.。
There's also envelopes.。
They have information there.。
So, yeah, thank you so much for that.。
Now, I would love to pray with us in just a moment.。
I'll just wait until the buckets, you know, have passed around.。
Part of giving is because, you know, Jesus has been so generous to us, and he。
calls us his people to have his character, you know, as his followers, and。
there will be also people who are generous and who give towards his work。
and his things.。
So that's why we do that.。
But let me pray for the offering.。
Jesus, we thank you for all your provision, for everything that's given.。
And this is part of our worship, and we offer this up to you.。
And we pray that it would honor you and that you would use us for your purposes。
here in New Long and beyond.。
And so we pray all this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Well, right now I have the privilege of introducing to you, if you don't know。
him yet, our senior pastor, Andrew.。
So let's welcome Andrew.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Yeah, so...。
I always feel so small with you.。
Get down there.。
There you go.。
All right.。
There you go.。
So for those of you who don't know, so Andrew is a senior pastor of the Divine。
Church in Wan Chai and also overseeing all of the Divine churches, including。
his church plan as well.。
And so he's been, of course, been dreaming about this, and it's been exciting。
for you to see this unfold.。
And it's great to have you.。
So we'd love to pray for you, for us as well, for this message.。
So let me do that.。
Thank you.。
You can stretch out your hands towards him, and let's pray.。
Jesus, thank you so much for Andrew, for his faithfulness in serving you,。
for his love for your word.。
I pray that you anoint him right now with your Holy Spirit as he shares this。
word that you've put on his heart for us here today.。
Also pray for us that you prepare our hearts to receive what it is that you。
want to speak to us.。
Thank you, Lord.。
And so we come expectantly before you, Lord, that you will meet us through this.。
I pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Well, good morning, everyone.。
It is such a deep privilege to be here.。
I was saying to the Cantonese service earlier today that every single week。
since we've launched Yinlong, I've felt like I want to be in two places at the。
same time.。
And Tim and I connect at the end of each Sunday, and we share kind of stories of。
how Wonchai was, how Yinlong was.。
And it is such a blessing for us to have one church in Hong Kong, but have two。
expressions of that church, one in Yinlong and one in Wonchai.。
And so I bring you greetings from everybody in Wonchai, and it is such a。
wonderful thing to be able to see this community growing and deepening.。
I see a lot of familiar faces in this room.。
When I've been here in the last number of times that I've been with you, but I。
see a lot of new faces in this room as well.。
And perhaps the Vine is a new church to you, and we are just so grateful that。
you're here.。
I really want to honor Tim and Ivan, Chapman June, and all of the people that。
are serving and the volunteers.。
This thing could not happen without the incredible volunteers that we have here。
in Yinlong.。
So thank you guys for pouring your heart and your energy into this community.。
And today I get to share in this series that we've been doing on Fresh。
Encounters, something that I feel is actually very personal to me.。
And one of the things that we do here at the Vine in terms of our leadership is。
we want to always lead or try to lead out of a place of authenticity, out of a。
place of our own brokenness, our own need for the reality of Christ in our lives,。
and come and serve, really, whether that's through the pulpit or through other。
ways that the leaders here serve, from a place of that authenticity and that。
brokenness.。
And much of what I want to talk about today, I think, has the ability to。
catalyze you into a deeper time of intimacy with Jesus than you've ever。
experienced before.。
But it also has the ability to hold us back.。
If we don't address the issue that I'm talking about today, if we don't embrace。
how we can use that in our lives, it actually can hold us back from entering。
into deeper intimacy.。
And as we were worshipping, I saw a picture for us as a community.。
And the picture was a grandfather clock, one of those old -- I'm British, by the。
way, in case you can't work out my accent.。
I am British, all right?。
And in the U.K., in my grandfather's house, up in the bedroom where I used to。
sleep when I was a kid when we would go over to my grandfather's house, he had a。
big grandfather's clock.。
And it was one of those ones that had, like, the little pendulum that swung, and。
it made a really loud ticking noise, you know that thing?。
Like, dong, dong, dong.。
I could not get to sleep in that bedroom at all because this thing was just。
swinging like this all night long and making a noise.。
And I felt like I was reminded of that as we were worshipping, weirdly, and I was。
like, what are you trying to say to us as a community?。
And I felt like for some of us in this room, and I know that I resonate with this。
as well, we sort of are constantly swinging from one thing to the next.。
And just like my experience in that bedroom, I could not find rest.。
I couldn't sleep when that thing was just ticking away like it was every night.。
And I feel like for some of us, we're crying out for rest.。
We're crying out for our soul.。
Not maybe even just physical rest, but a soul rest, a sense of feeling like we are。
connected to Jesus that enables us not to have to try, not to have to try to be。
something, not to have to try to constantly try to create something in our lives,。
but when we just relax and know that we are loved and embraced and accepted for。
who we are and we find great joy in just being at shalom, the biblical word,。
being at peace with him.。
Does that resonate with you?。
And as I unpack what I want to talk about today, I hope for some of you it will。
perhaps maybe help you to actually slow down a little bit and actually find your。
soul at rest with him.。
I want to talk about sin today.。
I know, I know.。
You didn't want to come to church to hear about sin today, okay?。
But I'm really excited about this because I think as we unpack what is perhaps one。
of the most central topics in scripture, I believe you're going to find great。
freedom today.。
I want to start by telling you a little story out of my own life.。
A number of years ago, I woke up in the morning, as we do most mornings.。
I woke up in the morning and I went to the bathroom and I brushed my teeth and I。
was washing my hands and we have a mirror, as many of us do, in our bathroom。
right in front, and I'm washing my hands and I look up in the mirror.。
And when we look in a mirror, we're normally seeing a reflection of。
ourselves and what we can see in front of ourselves.。
We very rarely, do we, very rarely check behind ourselves or anything like that.。
For whatever reason, I'm washing my hands that morning and I felt like I should。
check my back.。
So I kind of did this and sort of turned and looked in the mirror and I noticed。
that there was like a little lump in the center of my back.。
I'd never noticed it before.。
I'd never felt it before.。
I didn't even know it existed until that very moment.。
But as I was washing my hands, I just had this thought I should look at my back。
and I noticed this thing that was there.。
And my immediate thought was, "Huh, I've got a lump on my back."。
I didn't think anything that much about it.。
I was just like, "Oh, okay, I've got a lump on my back and it doesn't hurt me.。
I can't see it.。
It doesn't bother me.。
I don't feel it even.。
It's kind of like just one of those things.。
So I was just like, "Forget it.。
Who cares?。
I'll just get on with my life."。
Well, a number of weeks later, I was up again, washing my hands in the morning,。
looked in the mirror again, and the thought came, "Oh, I should have a look at。
that little lump again."。
And I had a look and now it was the size of a bit of a golf ball,。
like about the size of a golf ball on my back.。
Now you would think I might sort of go, "Oh, that's strange."。
But again, my reaction was, "Oh, that's interesting."。
I was like, "Okay, I've got like a lump on my back and it's grown a little bit,。
but I can't feel it.。
No one notices it.。
Even my wife hasn't said anything about it.。
Like no one notices it.。
It doesn't seem to bother anything.。
It doesn't hurt me.。
It's just like whatever."。
So I'm like, "Okay, fine.。
I'll just carry on with life."。
But about a month later, I wake up in the morning and I'm in excruciating pain.。
Like my back is just screaming with pain.。
I rushed to the mirror and I looked like this and I could not believe what I saw.。
Part of half of my back was just red.。
The little golf ball had become a baseball.。
It was now this big, huge, angry red mark and big, huge bump on my back.。
Every time I sort of turned and my muscles moved, it really hurt.。
And I realized, "Okay, I better actually deal with this.。
I better actually get this thing sorted out."。
So that morning, I booked myself in to a doctor that we have as a family.。
We went in to this doctor.。
I laid down on the bed and I kind of took my shirt off and I showed him.。
And he was like, "Oh, okay.。
That's pretty ugly."。
He put his gloves on and he kind of touched the bump on my back。
and he kind of moved it around.。
And he goes, "Oh, okay.。
It's no big deal."。
And I was like, "Great.。
It hurts."。
But he said, "It's no big deal."。
He said, "It's just a"--the technical term--"a sebaceous cyst."。
It's just a cyst.。
It's a bunch of kind of tissue and fat that has kind of gotten fat and congealed.。
But he's moving it around.。
He's like, "It's not attached to anything.。
It's no big deal.。
What we will do, we just open you up, we pop it out, we zip you back up again,。
and you're good."。
He said, "It takes 15 minutes."。
How about that?。
He said, "You can come and do it on your lunch break."。
That's like Hong Kong efficiency for you, by the way.。
"On your lunch break so you don't have to take any time off work.。
Lunch break, come in, open up, pop it out, zip you back up again,。
and we're good to go."。
He's like, "We could even do it tomorrow.。
What are you doing for lunch tomorrow?"。
And I looked at my diary.。
I wasn't doing anything for lunch, so I thought I would have surgery。
instead of just lunch.。
So the next day, I go back and I lie down again, and I take my top off,。
and there it is.。
It's all kind of ugly and stuff.。
He gets some local anesthetic.。
And local anesthetic, it just numbs the surface.。
And so he kind of injects this local anesthetic onto the lump.。
He opens me up, and then I hear this.。
I hear--now remember, I'm lying face down, facing up the floor,。
and I hear him go, "Oh, my gosh."。
Now, if you're ever in surgery, ladies and gentlemen,。
and you're awake, and you hear the surgeon go, "Oh, my God,。
that is not a good sign," okay, he goes, "Oh, my God," like this.。
He's kind of freaking out.。
I'm lying there.。
I'm like, "Doctor, is there a problem?"。
He's like, "Well," he said, "I've noticed that the cyst is actually。
attached to all of your back muscle.。
It's actually now kind of gotten attached to all of your back muscle."。
Now, what he should have done, if you're making notes,。
what he should have done at this point is sewed me back up, right,。
and then scheduled a proper surgery where I could have general anesthetic,。
get completely knocked out, and he could do whatever he wanted with my back, right?。
Serious surgery.。
He doesn't do that.。
He just decides to keep going.。
So I'm lying there, and I'm in a lot of pain,。
and he's injecting local anesthetic around the wound,。
which is not doing anything because what he's doing now。
is he's pulling out my back muscle, and he's cutting my back muscle。
so that he can free this thing and get it out of me.。
I cannot describe to you how excruciatingly painful it is。
to be completely awake and have somebody,。
"Ee, ee, ee, ee, ee, ping," cutting your back muscle.。
It was no amount of local anesthetic could touch anything。
to the depth of what he was doing.。
In fact, after an hour and a half of him doing this--。
I'm screaming my head off, by the way.。
If anybody was in the waiting room, they left the doctor, right?。
Imagine if you're in the waiting room, right,。
and there's a closed door, and somebody's going, "Aaah!"。
I'm screaming, right?。
They have injected so much local anesthetic into my back。
that they have run out of local anesthetic.。
They no longer--he says to the nurse at one point,。
"More local anesthetic!"。
The nurse says, "We've run out of local anesthetic."。
I am crying and crying and crying, so much pain.。
He then goes to me--he kind of whispers in my ear--。
he said, "Would you like some Valium?"。
Now, apparently, you're not supposed to give Valium。
unless somebody has actually signed off on it, right?。
But I'm in so much pain, and he can see that I'm in so much pain.。
He's like, "Can I give you some Valium?"。
And I'm like, "Please give me Valium, yes!"。
So he injects some Valium into my arm.。
Suddenly, I'm like, "Aaah!"。
The swinging stopped, and I entered into Shalom.。
And it was like I was in heaven,。
and the doctor could do anything he wanted with my back at all.。
I'm like, "Cut away, baby. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter."。
I couldn't feel anything at that point.。
I was off in some la-la land.。
It took him another about 45 minutes to get the cyst out of my back.。
He sewed me up.。
I had 3 months of physiotherapy on my back--。
how to move my back and move my arm properly again.。
I mean, this was an absolute disaster.。
During the physiotherapy over 3 months,。
God began to speak to me personally out of this trauma.。
He said, "Andrew, you need to understand。
that the way that you treat your sin。
is exactly how you treated your cyst.。
You know that there's some stuff going on in your life.。
You know that there are a few things that are not fully aligned,。
but just kind of like that mirror, you're like,。
'Oh, yeah. Well, it's not hurting me.。
It's not really hurting anyone else.。
It's really not such a big deal. I'll just carry on.'"。
And God was like, "Andrew, you just walk on and carry on with your sin。
until it actually starts hurting yourself,。
until it actually does something.。
Maybe you get caught in something, or maybe somebody finds out,。
or maybe you realize that it's impacting a relationship in your life。
or something like that.。
Then you're willing to deal with it.。
But even then, you're just like the doctor.。
"Oh, just open it up, pop it out, zip it back up.。
It's no big deal. It's fine. I can handle it.。
It's just a minor thing. It's not a major sin. It's a minor sin."。
By the way, the Bible doesn't talk about sins in that way.。
But we so often do, "It's just a minor thing. It's not a big deal.。
We just don't understand fully the impact."。
And I felt like God was saying, "Andrew, you don't fully get it.。
You don't fully see that actually your sin goes so much deeper。
than what you just see on the surface.。
You see maybe anger, but you don't realize what the depth of that is。
and why it is that you're so angry.。
You see lust and some of the issues that you struggle with in that area,。
but you don't understand the roots of that.。
You think it's just an easy thing, something to quickly deal with,。
when actually your sin so deeply is entangled with you。
that no local anesthetic of you just trying to be a good Christian,。
of you just trying to be a better person,。
of you just trying to go to church more is going to solve the reality。
that there are some sins in your life that you're carrying around with you。
and you're not willing to truly deal with.。
You're just trying to put a band-aid on something。
that's going to require some valium and some uprooting。
at the very root of what it's entangled into.。
Are you with me?。
I'm a pastor of a church, and I think I'm a pretty good person,。
and I do my best to walk with Jesus,。
and I realized that sin in my life had gone far deeper。
than perhaps it should have.。
And what I thought was something I could pop out and deal with in my lunch break。
was actually something that I needed to go on a journey with the Lord。
and to see the freedom that He truly wanted for me.。
It's interesting because Scripture speaks about sin this way.。
Let me read you this beautiful verse from Hebrews 12, verse 1.。
It says this, "Therefore, since we are surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses,。
let us throw off everything that hinders and the sin that so easily entangles."。
Notice that.。
"The sin that is not surface, the sin that we think is surface,。
and it's no big deal, but it so easily entangles in so much of us.。
And let us run with perseverance the race marked out for us."。
I love the writer to Hebrews here.。
He's speaking to the church, and he's saying, "Church, you've got to understand。
that there is a great cloud of witnesses.。
There are men and women who through all the history have gone on a journey。
and walking with God, and we need to throw off everything。
because there is a race that God is calling us to run.。
There is something that God is calling you to do.。
There's a part of who you are that you are created and shaped and formed by God.。
God is doing something in your life.。
He's using in your workplace, in your family.。
There's a purpose. There's a mission.。
There's a race to run, and he's saying there is this race,。
but in order to run that race, in order to do that,。
you've got to throw off the things that are holding you back,。
the things that are weighing you down.。
And he says, "The sin that so easily entangles."。
The word for "entangles" here in the Greek means literally trapped, ensnared.。
It means hidden.。
"The sin that so easily is not just the surface stuff,。
but the stuff that is so much deeper than that."。
It's like the writer in Hebrews is saying, "I want to invite you on a journey,。
a journey where you can truly be free."。
When the doctor finally got my cyst out and managed to cut all the stuff。
that needed to be cut out, it never returned。
because he had dealt not just with the surface issue but with the roots.。
And the thing that the Holy Spirit has for us as believers in Jesus。
is the joy of knowing a God who truly can get to the roots,。
not just deal with some of the stuff that we find。
on the surface of our relationship with Him.。
God actually gives us a tool.。
He gives us a gift in order to be able to really get to the roots。
of our sin and our brokenness, and it's the gift of confession and repentance.。
And again, I know that confession and repentance seems like a really heavy topic.。
It seems like something that we kind of don't want to go to church to hear about that.。
That seems like something that's a little overwhelming.。
But when you think of confession and repentance,。
what I want you to actually be thinking about is freedom and intimacy。
because confession and repentance is really just a process。
of bringing freedom and intimacy into your life.。
And so when the Bible speaks about confession and repentance,。
our natural response is to often think of the negative side of that,。
but the Bible so often presents it more as the journey。
and what it brings you into.。
It brings you actually into a profound place of greater freedom in your life。
and intimacy with God.。
And if this whole series over January has been about fresh encounters,。
if your fast has been about a desire to be in deeper intimacy with Christ,。
then confession and repentance is perhaps the greatest tool。
that God has given you to bring you into a place of fresher encounter with Him.。
In fact, the writer in the book of Acts, which we know of as Luke,。
he writes it this way in Acts 3, starting in verse 19.。
He says, "Repent then and turn to God so that your sins will be wiped out。
and that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord."。
Isn't that beautiful?。
Notice how Scripture speaks about the work of confession and repentance.。
It doesn't wrap it up in some fear.。
It wraps it up in joy.。
It says, "When we confess, when we repent,。
we turn from the brokenness and the bad stuff,。
and we find ourselves in times of refreshing with the Lord."。
In the Greek, when you read that, the emphasis is in the times of refreshing.。
It's like Luke is saying, "Hey, guys, this is the joy of knowing Jesus.。
This is actually what it's about.。
You want to know what intimacy is with Him?。
It is confessing and repenting the stuff that so easily entangles in us.。
It is taking seriously the fact that we walk so often in brokenness,。
and in releasing ourselves from that, we have times of refreshing。
in the presence of the Lord."。
It's like this great invitation into something that is far more profound。
than we ever realized.。
And the problem is that so often through the history of church,。
the church has talked about confession and repentance as a scary thing,。
as if there's some God who's super angry at us,。
a God who is so angry at us that He's punishing us in wrath。
for the broken things that we struggle with.。
And I think one of the things that we need to do to free ourselves as Christians。
is we actually need to make a shift in our mindset away from thinking。
about confession and repentance from a fear-based perspective,。
but actually think about it from a joy-based perspective.。
I mean, could you imagine what it would be like if we all thought。
that confession and repentance is a joy?。
Like, what a gift.。
What a joy it is to not have to walk around with my brokenness all the time,。
but to realize that Jesus went to the cross, shed His blood,。
so that I would be free, so that I would know times of refreshing from the Lord.。
So that would be the constant state that I find myself in,。
not the state of feeling guilty or shame or a state of feeling like I've got a God。
who's angry at me, but instead the reality is I have a God who loves me。
and, yes, sees sin, sees what sin does to me, hates sin, but loves me.。
And because God hates sin but loves me, when He sees that I'm in sin,。
what He sees is not I'm angry at this person.。
What God says is there's a race that I want this person to run,。
and if they're struggling under the yoke and the brokenness。
and the entanglement of this sin, they can't run as free as I want them to run.。
I wonder if you could sense this, that the Holy Spirit looks over you today。
and He says, "Man, I see so much for you.。
I see so much in your life.。
I see so much that I want to take you in and draw you into.。
This is the great joy of God for you.。
He loves you so much. He wants to release you into that."。
Imagine what it would be like if we came here on Sundays。
in the joy of being honest about our sin and our brokenness,。
knowing not that we celebrate it, not at all,。
but knowing that as we confess it, as we speak of it, as we recognize it,。
as we take ownership for it, we are releasing ourselves。
into the race that Christ has called us to run。
and at times of refreshing of the invitation.。
I love how Tim Keller puts this.。
Tim Keller, one of the great pastors of our time,。
unfortunately passed away recently from cancer,。
but leaves behind a legacy of amazing books and teaching.。
One of the great pastors in the city of New York, he wrote it this way.。
He said, "Fear-based confession and repentance makes us hate ourselves.。
We feel really bad, but joy-based confession and repentance makes us hate sin."。
Do you see the difference?。
And some of you in this room, you come in today hating yourself.。
You come in feeling really bad about yourself.。
You're so wallowing in guilt and shame。
and you think God hates you too.。
You think God is angry at you, upset at you.。
You think God is distant from you.。
And we need to shift our mentality here to realize that there is a hate at work,。
but it's not a hate of ourselves.。
It's a hate of the impact and the entanglement of sin。
and the joy of knowing a Christ who can free us from that。
and set us back into a new place, a place of love and joy and grace and hope.。
So you need to understand that confession and repentance。
is actually the truest form of worship that we have.。
Because think about it.。
If worship is about ascribing glory to Christ,。
the greatest glory that Christ will ever do for you is to save you.。
It is, in other words, to deal with the sin issue in your life.。
It is to free you from sin and brokenness。
and bring you back into right relationship with Christ。
and reconcile you with Him.。
And because of that, our joy of confession and repentance。
is actually an act of worship.。
It's actually a way for us to honor and to glorify what Christ has done on the cross.。
And when we fail to repent and confess, when we hold on to sin,。
we're actually doing the opposite.。
We're not honoring the work that the cross has provided for us,。
and instead we're holding on to our brokenness as if the cross hasn't happened.。
But the cross has happened. You have been set free.。
And what that means is that sin no longer has a grip on you.。
Sin does not get the final say. Amen?。
It does not get the final say in your life.。
And because it no longer has the final say,。
when we engage in confession and repentance,。
we're aligning our belief to the reality that the cross is louder than sin.。
Whoa, that was cool.。
The cross is louder than sin.。
Are you tracking with this?。
I've noticed in my life as I've made the shift from thinking about repentance and confession。
from a fear place, from a place of guilt and shame,。
to a place of honor and joy and ultimately love,。
I've noticed a lot of changes in my life.。
I've noticed that when I'm in sin, which I am at times,。
when I'm in a place of sin, before when it was fear-based,。
I felt a lot of condemnation.。
Now when it's joy-based, I feel a lot of conviction.。
And conviction enables me to deal with that sin.。
Condemnation makes me feel bad about it. Are you with me?。
I've noticed when I've made the shift that before,。
when I had a fear-based relationship with confession and repentance,。
I noticed that I would often blame God.。
Now I find myself within the joy aspect, actually wanting to align with God。
and how He sees the reality that's happening in my life.。
I've noticed before that I would find myself being angry at myself.。
I now find myself through a joy-based confession and repentance,。
finding myself humbled.。
It's a different experience.。
I still recognize the sin and I'm not proud of it.。
But rather than feeling like I'm beating myself up about it,。
I'm able to humble myself into the hands of the Lord。
and ask Him to deal with what only He can deal with it,。
because my local anesthetic can't touch it.。
But His Valium, the Holy Spirit, the blood of Jesus on the cross,。
can truly get to the root. Are you tracking with this?。
David, one of the great psalmists, writes so beautifully of this whole process.。
I want to just sit us in Psalm 32 for a little bit。
as I unpack this idea a bit more with you guys.。
David's an interesting man, because when we hear of David in the Old Testament,。
we often think of David as this amazing guy,。
this guy that had the idea for the temple,。
a great leader who established Israel into Jerusalem.。
Christ, we know, comes from the Davidic line.。
Often the Scriptures talk about this Davidic dynasty,。
that the Messiah would come from the house of David.。
So David has a lot of sense of revere and honor in the Old Testament,。
but the reality is David was a very broken man.。
David was a sinner. He was a deep sinner.。
He was a man who committed murder. He was a man who committed rape.。
He had a lot of lust issues. He had a lot of sexual brokenness in his life.。
He is not a perfect person.。
And I want to encourage you that there are no perfect people in this room.。
There are no perfect people here.。
And the vine celebrates the beauty of the fact that none of us are perfect,。
but we have a perfect Savior.。
And that's the invitation we have to a God who is so good.。
Now listen to how David in his brokenness, who knows God so well,。
notice what he says. He says, "Blessed is he whose transgressions are forgiven."。
That's sins. "Whose sins are forgiven, whose sins are covered.。
Blessed is the one whose sins the Lord no longer counts against him。
and whose spirit is no deceit." Notice how he starts.。
He says, "You need to understand that you're blessed,。
that you're blessed when the Lord doesn't hold any sin against you.。
You're blessed when you're in a relationship with God。
where he sees you through the blood of Jesus.。
You're blessed because you live on this side of the cross of Calvary.。
You're blessed because you have a place to bring your brokenness and bring your sin.。
That's a place of blessing. Blessing here means flourishing.。
It means life. It means abundancy. It means growth. It means goodness.。
That's how David starts. He says, "You need to understand how God sees you。
through the cross of Jesus. You are blessed.。
Blessed are those whose sins are forgiven and your sins are forgiven because of Christ."。
That's a beautiful place to start.。
In other words, when we're talking about confession, repentance, and sin,。
our starting point should not be, "Oh, I'm bad. I'm terrible. I'm horrible."。
Our starting point should be, "I'm blessed because I have the opportunity to be redeemed.。
I have the opportunity to be reconciled. I have the opportunity to be changed."。
Are you with me? That's the starting point for us.。
We are blessed. That doesn't mean that we don't still have sin.。
It doesn't mean that we don't need to deal with some things.。
It doesn't mean that we can't just go, "Oh, okay, whatever."。
We'll get on to that in a moment.。
But your starting point is you're blessed because you have an opportunity。
to fully get untangled. Are you with me?。
This is really important because the whole of Scripture speaks this way.。
I love actually, let me just jump to 1 John.。
Right at the end of the New Testament, 1 John puts it really quite powerfully in verse 9.。
He says, "If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just and will forgive our sins。
and purify us from all unrighteousness." There's the concept, "Purify us."。
If we confess our sins, He is faithful to forgive.。
Now, anyone in this room right now, whatever it is that you've brought in today,。
no matter what's going on in your life, no matter what sin that you know you're carrying,。
no matter what brokenness, no matter you know what you've done in your past,。
none of that is unforgivable. Are you with me?。
Every single sin that you're carrying in your heart, in your life,。
anything that's ever happened, you can be cleansed from that because Christ is faithful.。
He doesn't say, "I'm just going to pop it up, zip you out. It's fine."。
He doesn't treat it lightly. He says, "I'm going to get into the root of it.。
I am faithful and the cross has dealt with it and you can know times of refleshing.。
You are blessed."。
Now, this is a great joy, but David goes on to do something that's really important.。
He goes on to say, "The problem we have as Christians, though,。
is that even though we have this ability to confess and repent,。
our issue is we very rarely do so."。
Yeah, not the best, but it's not really hurting anyone.。
Nobody knows about it. I've gotten away with it for some time.。
I guess I'll just keep getting on with it.。
It's very easy for us, I think, as Christians to recognize that there is this brokenness in us。
and to hold on to it.。
I want you to hear how David describes what it is to hold on to unconfessed sin.。
Verse 3 and 4, "When I kept silent, when I just kind of went, 'Meh, no big deal,'。
here's what happened.。
My bones wasted away, though through my groaning all day long,。
for day and night your hand was heavy upon me.。
My strength was sapped as in the summer heat," or the heat of the summer.。
He says, "Here's how it felt when I didn't confess, when I didn't repent,。
when I realized that I'm blessed, but the problem is I held on to my sin。
and I remained silent.。
And here's what it felt like. It felt like my bones were wasting away."。
I wonder if anybody resonates with that in this room, because I know I do.。
"It felt like my bones were wasting away.。
It felt like I was groaning all day long.。
It felt like I had a heaviness, a yoke upon me.。
It felt like I was in Hong Kong in the middle of the summer,。
and it was crazy humidity, and I was wearing too many clothes,。
and I'm sweaty, and I'm tired, and I'm worn out, and I just want to go home.。
That's what it feels like.。
When I kept silent, that was what my life was like."。
And I want you to see what David is doing.。
Listen to this. This is really important.。
Here's what David's doing in this psalm.。
He's setting up two true realities, the reality of being blessed,。
because you have your sins forgiven, and the reality of holding on to your sins。
and feeling anything other than being blessed. Are you with me?。
And David is basically saying, "Choose one of those things,"。
because every single human being is going to be in one of those things.。
You're either blessed because you know that your sins are forgiven,。
and you're finding refreshing times in the Lord,。
or your bones are wasting away, and there's this groaning in you,。
and a heaviness upon you, and it feels like your energy is sapped from the summer heat.。
He's like, "Those are the two realities in life you can choose."。
"When I kept silent, that was my choice. My bones wasted away.。
When I confessed, something changed. Something happened."。
It's very easy for us, however, to remain silent.。
And here's the question we need to ask ourselves this morning.。
Why do we as Christians, when we understand the benefits of confession and repentance,。
very often remain silent?。
Why is it that we don't always confess and repent?。
Let me offer you a couple of quick thoughts.。
I think one of the reasons why we don't is because we actually deny the reality of sin.。
We actually just deny it.。
We actually think we don't call it sin. We call it, "Ah, just a little mistake."。
Or we look in the mirror like I did and go, "Ah, yeah. Nah. Don't need to do anything."。
And we actually deny the reality of our sin.。
One of the very first things we need to do is actually be honest with ourselves about what it is that we carry.。
That doesn't mean it has to come with emotions of guilt and shame and wrath and anger.。
It doesn't mean that we have to go there.。
But we have to kind of say to ourselves, "I recognize that there is a brokenness I'm carrying."。
"And that brokenness is not right. I recognize that it breaks the heart of God."。
"I recognize that this is not what I've been created for."。
"And I recognize that there's another way that I could be living."。
We have to take seriously the reality of our sin.。
I eventually had to deal with that thing on my back.。
This is what confession is, my friends.。
Confession is taking ownership of our sin.。
You see, you cannot repent of sin until you have first confessed your sin.。
Repentance of sin, the changing from it, and being back in right relationship with God,。
only happens when we take ownership of our sin.。
When we confess it, confession is saying, "Yeah, I recognize that there is this sin in my life."。
It's actually verbalizing in our hearts or even out loud with others。
that there is a brokenness that we're dealing with and we cannot deal with on our own.。
You cannot have repentance of sin until there is first confession of sin.。
Does that make sense?。
And one of the reasons why I think we don't confess is we don't take that part seriously enough.。
We deny the reality of our sin.。
I think the second reason why we don't confess and repent sometimes。
is because we fail to find true sorrow in us for our sin.。
It's interesting, the word "confession" in the Greek in the New Testament。
is actually the word homo legeo.。
And homo legeo is two words broken down.。
Homos means "the same," and legeo means "to speak."。
And it's really interesting that the Bible would use this word to talk about the act of confession,。
because really what it's saying is that the act of confession is to speak the same thing about sin as God does.。
It is to say the same thing about sin as God does.。
And here's what God says about sin.。
Sin breaks relationship.。
Sin breaks relationship with one another, and it breaks relationship with Him.。
Sin breaks His heart, because He sees what He has created you for,。
and He knows how sin holds you back from the things that He has created you for.。
Those are the things that God says about sin.。
He also says that Jesus has paid the price for sin.。
He also says that there is a way for you to be blessed and not to be silent anymore.。
He says all of that about sin.。
So when we confess, our sorrow is aligning ourselves to say we actually agree with God that the sin is not right,。
that the sin that I'm struggling with breaks His heart,。
that the sin that I'm holding on to is my reality, when actually I could be someone who's released from that in forgiveness with Him.。
When we confess, we are aligning our heart, our values, our voice, our mouth to the same things that God says about sin.。
Are you with me?。
We're not embracing all of that stuff that comes with the negative fear-based side of it.。
We're releasing it to Him, and we're saying the same things about sin as God says,。
which includes, "I love you."。
It's actually realizing and recognizing that we are still loved despite the reality of our sin.。
The third reason why I think we hold on to sin and we don't repent and confess is because we think we're alone in our sin.。
This is a very powerful, subtle thing.。
We come into church, and we say, "Wow, Pastor Tim. Oh, man. Pastor Tim's awesome.。
Pastor Tim's great.。
Pastor Tim's a perfect Christian.。
Pastor Tim's a great husband, a great dad. He's a great pastor, a great preacher.。
Oh, man, look at his life. I wish my life was like that.。
He doesn't struggle with anything, but I'm struggling.。
Oh, look at everybody around my row. They're all raising their hands in worship.。
Oh, man, they look great. They look like they got life all sorted out.。
I don't have life sorted out.。
If I told somebody here that my life wasn't sorted out, but their lives are perfect, that's not going to go well.。
Are you with me?。
We come into a church environment, and we think we're alone in our sin.。
Let me just be very honest with you.。
Tim is a sinner.。
I'm a sinner.。
I'm your senior pastor, and I'm a sinner in need of a Savior.。
There are no perfect people here.。
Because that's our reality as people in Christ, that we are broken.。
We are sinners in need of Him.。
No one is alone in their sin in this room.。
Not any of us.。
We're all one family.。
All one family, recognizing that we all carry stuff, and we all have to deal with stuff.。
There's all individual things that are going on in our lives.。
You are not alone.。
Every time you step in here on a Sunday, you come into a family who loves you, embraces you, thinks you're awesome,。
who will walk with you in the brokenness of your sin as they walk in the brokenness of theirs.。
In fact, as we do it together, the Bible says, when we confess together, we forgive.。
When He forgives us and we find healing, it's a wonderful invitation from Him.。
But the fourth thing is even worse.。
Because in the fourth thing, we think if we do share, we're going to be judged and condemned for what we share.。
This is another reason why we don't share our sin.。
Because we think other people are going to judge us, they're going to condemn us.。
And maybe some of you in this room, that's been your experience in church.。
Maybe you come into a church, maybe even the Vine, and you come into a church, and you felt condemned, or you felt judged for your sin.。
Let me tell you, that is not the way church should be.。
That is your experience.。
Don't allow somebody else's sin to stop you from dealing with your own.。
Are you with me?。
Don't allow someone else's sin, because if you've been treated that way, that's a sinful thing.。
You shouldn't have been treated that way.。
Instead, you should be able to come into a church like this, in an environment like this.。
And I know that Tim's heart, Ivan's heart, my heart, is to create an environment at the Vine,。
where you feel accepted no matter what's going on in your life.。
Where you feel loved no matter what brokenness it is that you carry.。
Where you feel like the Vine is a home for you, even in the depths of the brokenness that you're trying to deal with.。
You come in here, you will be loved, you will be accepted, you'll be embraced.。
We will do our very best to see you as God sees you.。
A sinner in need of a Savior.。
Just like us.。
Are you with me?。
Now, I want you to see how then David then flips things when he begins to confess.。
In verse 5 he says, "Then I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover up my iniquity anymore."。
I said, "I will confess my sins to the Lord, and you forgive the guilt, and forgave the guilt of my sin."。
Isn't that beautiful?。
I confess to you, and you came and you forgave me.。
He said, "This is awesome. I no longer covered it up anymore.。
I welcomed myself into this relationship that I have with you, and now that I'm in that relationship, I've been set free."。
It is a wonderful thing.。
Some of us in this room, as we finish this 21-day fast,。
and as we come into this idea that we want fresh encounters with God,。
as we desire to be in deeper intimacy with Him,。
the greatest tool available to you is just to confess and repent.。
Not because you feel terrible, and you feel like you're the worst,。
and you've got to try to appease an angry God,。
but because you're blessed, and Christ has gone to the cross,。
and in the joy that there is in knowing times of refreshment with Him,。
we come and we express, we confess.。
I want to finish with this.。
Confession in Scripture is not just about confessing sin,。
it's also about confessing faith.。
In fact, we ought to confess our faith in Christ as often as we confess our sin before Christ.。
Come on, church, this is really important.。
We ought to confess our faith in Christ as much as we ought to confess our sins before Christ,。
because our confession of faith actually creates the environment whereby we know that we can deal with our sin.。
As we confess that we believe that Jesus did go to the cross,。
that He did pay the price, that He was raised again,。
and that the same Spirit that raised Jesus from the death raises me and is in me,。
that I'm reconciled in my relationship with Him,。
our confession of faith puts us in a place where we know Christ can deal with our sin.。
So confession of faith actually will spur you on to confess sin more,。
and your confession of sin will actually create the space for you to have more faith.。
Come on, church, follow this. This is really important.。
Okay, I'm going to say that one more time.。
Your confession of faith, what you believe about Jesus, will open you up to confess your sin more.。
And when you confess your sin more, you will find yourself with more faith,。
which then will enable you to confess more sin.。
And God has created this biblical circle of life together, if you will,。
where confession of faith and confession of sin strengthens who you are。
and strengthens our community as a church.。
That's the invitation. That's joyful.。
And so as you come to the end of the fast today,。
and as you desire to connect more deeply with Christ this year,。
I wonder whether you could shift your thinking。
and become somebody who lives out of the joy of bringing your brokenness to Christ,。
having short accounts with Him from a place of joy,。
knowing that the work of the cross is for you and for your neighbor,。
knowing that we could create something in this room。
that actually has something to say to the world out there.。
Could you imagine if church was actually a place。
where rather than people out there going, "That's a place of judgment.。
That's a place of condemnation.。
That's a place where they just talk about sin and make you feel bad about yourself."。
Imagine if people out there were like, "Church is a place where people love.。
Church is a place where people feel safe.。
Church is a place where people actually can deal with some of their bad habits。
and some of the stuff in their life.。
Church is actually a beautiful thing."。
That's joy-based confession and repentance。
that welcomes in everybody to knowing Christ.。
I want to pray for you today that that would be your journey。
and that in the discipline of confession and repentance,。
you will find yourself intimately engaged with Him.。
Let Him come and untangle what only He can untangle.。
Can I pray for you? Let's pray.。
Maybe if you're just in the quietness of your heart now,。
if this has been a helpful message,。
I wonder whether you just, where you are, just open your hands before the Lord.。
That's just a symbol of saying, "I'm open to hearing from you, Jesus."。
Father, we come now seeing all the things that David speaks of in Psalm 32,。
knowing we're blessed and yet recognizing so often we're silent,。
knowing that we have a God who completely and perfectly purifies His church。
and yet realizing that our bones waste away so often。
because we hold on to the brokenness that we carry.。
Father, I thank You that David said, "I found myself confessing to You。
and I experienced Your forgiveness, and I know what it is now to be set free."。
Lord, I pray for every person in here,。
that they would change their thinking about confession and repentance。
away from an angry God who wants to smite them。
to a loving God who is welcoming them to times of refreshing,。
fresh encounters.。
So I wonder whether you just quieten your heart before the Lord in this moment.。
As you're sitting there with your hands open and your heart turned to Him,。
may I invite you to start by asking Him to reveal truth to you.。
Invite Him to speak to you about what it is that you might be carrying around with you.。
What cyst, if you will, might be on your back.。
Maybe it's been there for some time, just like it was for me.。
Allow Him to show you. You might be surprised.。
Maybe when you came in here you'd be like,。
"This is the area God would speak to me about,"。
but in this moment He shows something else to you.。
I want to encourage you to trust the Holy Spirit.。
Holy Spirit, would you come and speak to your children?。
We love each person here so much.。
You want them to run the race that you have set before them。
without anything that hinders them.。
And you've provided the way for them to be free.。
So come, Holy Spirit, come.。
I pray you would speak.。
And as you notice the Holy Spirit showing you something,。
the next step is just to confess that before Him.。
As I shared earlier, to take that responsibility in your heart。
and in that confession just bring it to Him.。
To say the same thing about sin that He would.。
And in that you can ask Him to forgive you。
and to ask Him to show you that forgiveness,。
that peace that surpasses our understanding,。
that swinging pendulum of the clock to actually be still。
and to find your soul at rest in Him again,。
knowing that you are blessed.。
So, Holy Spirit, I pray that you would release, Lord.。
You would release the power and the joy of forgiveness over your people.。
And that, Lord, this spiritual discipline of confession and repentance。
would be something that we joyfully embrace as a community,。
that we would come here on Sundays willing to be open。
and vulnerable with one another,。
that we would have the courage to ask people to pray for us,。
that we would desire to keep these short accounts together,。
to pray for one another and expect the healing that comes from that,。
to be an example of the love of Christ to the world。
and to model a new narrative in how we treat each other.。
And Father, I thank you that there is great hope。
and that intimacy is the fruit of a life of short accounts with you.。
And so, Lord, I want to pray for that this week,。
that as some people do some work with you,。
whether in this moment or in the week ahead,。
that they would find themselves stepping into that greater place of intimacy。
and joy in you.。
So just take a moment just in this time here。
to just do your own walk with Christ now。
as He leads you by His Spirit.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
Yes Lord, we thank you that we can come to you。
and that you receive us,。
that you receive us, that you have broken us,。
but you don't leave us there.。
You forgive us, you restore us as we confess, as we repent,。
and you just pour your mercy, your grace over us.。
And it is, you bring us joy and refreshing.。
And so Lord, I ask for that, for us here,。
that you pour out this joy and this refreshing of forgiveness。
as we've brought to you the things that you've convicted us that are not right.。
And so we pray that we can now walk in joy,。
that we can walk in freedom because of what you have done.。
We pray all this in your name, Jesus. Amen. Amen.。
Well, thank you worship team for joining us.。
Thank you, Pastor Andrew, for powerful words.。
Thank you everyone for joining us here today.。
[Applause]。
So we have a prayer team that would love to pray with you.。
You know, some things are powerful and we just can't pray with others.。
But we have a lot of good things going on.。
They would love to pray with you here on your right-hand side.。
Also, parents, right now is the time to pick up your kids from K4C.。
And don't forget, we have a bring your own lunch,。
so grab some food, bring it back.。
We love you all.。
Have a wonderful Sunday and see you all next week.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
♪ Oh, in the depth of my soul ♪。
