So, Merry Christmas by the way.。
(audience cheering)。
Merry Christmas by the way.。
(audience cheering)。
All right, good.。
So, when I was a kid, and we got lots of kids with us today.。
When I was a kid, my greatest passion was skateboarding.。
Okay?。
I grew up in the 80s.。
Anybody else grew up in the 80s?。
Come on, let's hear it.。
Loud and proud 80s people.。
My buddy.。
Are you sure?。
No, just kidding, I know you're 80s.。
All right.。
I grew up in the 80s, and skateboarding was a thing, massive in the 80s.。
So, I remember when I first saw somebody skateboarding.。
I was watching a surfing video with a friend in the mid 80s.。
And this surfer, on the off season, would take his surfboard,。
and he would get a pair of roller skates,。
and he would nail the roller skates under the surfboard,。
so he could surf down the street to practice his surf moves。
when the waves weren't happening.。
And I thought to myself, I live in a city filled with concrete.。
I grew up here in Hong Kong, and I was like,。
if this is the place to skateboard, surely this is the place.。
We don't get many waves in the ocean,。
but we have a lot of concrete that we could ride in.。
And from that moment of watching the surfer surf on his makeshift skateboard,。
I convinced myself that all I wanted for Christmas was a skateboard.。
So I said to my parents, I really, really want a skateboard.。
So on Christmas morning, 1988, I got my very first skateboard.。
Yes! Let me show you a photo of it.。
There it is. On the right-hand side was my skateboard.。
It was a Tony Hawk model. That's me!。
Okay, that's me trying to pretend like I'm flying in the air,。
doing a skateboard trick, but I'm actually just kneeling on the ground.。
But that's me in the 80s. That was my skateboard.。
This skateboard that you can see me holding is also mine.。
I brought this when I turned 40 because I had a midlife crisis。
and could not afford a motorbike.。
So I brought myself a skateboard, and I started skating again when I turned 40.。
In the 80s, though, skateboarding was a thing,。
and I spent every single moment of my free time skateboarding.。
We built up a skate group in the neighborhood where I was living,。
and it was amazing.。
I actually became quite good at the skateboard.。
In fact, good enough that I could skateboard down the road。
and skateboard between cars.。
On one particular day, I was doing that down Braemar Hill。
because it was a really big slope, a big hill up there,。
and I was skating between all the cars on the road,。
and suddenly I hear a police siren,。
and a motorbike policeman pulls me over,。
and he takes me to the side.。
He asks for my ID card. I'm like 15 years old.。
I give him my ID card, and he picks up my skateboard.。
He's like, "Hmm."。
He's like, "You are very talented on this thing."。
I was like, "Thank you, Mr. Police Officer."。
Am I so talented that I'm not going to get fined?。
And he's like, "It's illegal to skateboard on the road in Hong Kong."。
I'm like, "Yeah, I kind of know."。
And he's like, "Do not do it again."。
And then he let me go. It was awesome.。
Because you know that the legend status of any skateboarder。
goes to 100 million if they've been pulled over by the police.。
Because that's what every skateboarder wants,。
is a story of being arrested by the police.。
So my legendary status in the neighbourhood just rose.。
Now, one particular day,。
a new kid showed up in our neighbourhood with a skateboard.。
Now, we had a pretty tight group of friends.。
We were like a family together.。
We thought we were the cool kids of the neighbourhood.。
And this other kid shows up with his own skateboard.。
And I was like, "Who's this joker?"。
Can he join our cool club of skateboarders?。
Does he skateboard well?。
And as we're trying to chat with him and get to know him,。
he goes, "Let me show you what my dad made for me."。
And he showed us a skate ramp that his dad had made for him.。
Coolest dad in the world.。
Made him this skate ramp.。
And it was about our head height.。
When I was about 15, I might have been about this high or so.。
And the skate ramp was that big.。
It was a big slope that came up.。
And the whole idea was you would skate up to the ramp。
and try and launch off the other end and do a trick,。
just like the one that I'm pretending to do right there.。
That was the whole thing.。
So he showed us this skate ramp.。
And all of us, all of us as part of the skate gang,。
were terrified of skate ramps.。
Because we had never skated on a ramp before.。
Here in Hong Kong now, you actually have skate parks and skate ramps.。
Back in my day, in the 80s, there were no skate parks,。
no skate ramps in Hong Kong.。
This guy had a ramp.。
It was super cool.。
But we were terrified of it.。
Now I realized that I wanted to make a deep connection with this guy.。
I wanted him to feel at home in our skate gang.。
And I'm a very EQ-orientated person.。
Not particularly IQ, but quite EQ.。
You know what I mean?。
Like I feel people's emotions,。
and I want people to feel safe and happy all the time.。
And so I could see him showing off his proud skate ramp。
that none of us wanted to skate on.。
And I wanted to take a risk in order to connect with him.。
In order to make him feel like he's welcomed into our family.。
I was willing to give the skate ramp a go。
in order that he might feel welcomed into our gang.。
Does that make sense to you?。
It was the dumbest idea I have ever made.。
So I decided I went right back as far away from the ramp as I could.。
I didn't have a helmet.。
We didn't have any knee pads.。
No safety gear whatsoever.。
The skate ramp was about 20 yards ahead of me.。
I had my skate like this.。
And I was like, "Go!"。
And I skated as fast as I could.。
Jumped up on my board.。
I'm going like super fast.。
I'm coming up to the skate ramp.。
I hit the skate ramp.。
And then everything went wrong.。
I hit the skate ramp.。
And my skate goes all the way up in the air.。
It starts spiraling.。
It flies massively there.。
I'm literally in the air, turning around, without a helmet,。
about to land face first onto the ramp.。
I landed face first onto the ramp.。
I then slid all the way down the ramp.。
And I had so much momentum that I then skidded on the concrete.。
And my arm was behind me as I was skidding on the concrete.。
And my skin of my arm was so dragged like this。
that the skin here came onto my elbow,。
bore a hole in it, almost all the way down to the bone.。
Blood is going everywhere.。
It's the worst thing that's ever happened to me.。
This new kid, feeling probably guilty about the ramp,。
runs over to me to see if I'm okay.。
And I'm lying on the ground.。
By the way, I've still got a scar here.。
You can come later and I'll show it to you in real life, right?。
I'm lying there.。
I've got like tears in my eye.。
Blood's coming from my arm.。
I am overwhelmed.。
He stands over me.。
And as our eyes lock, there's this pregnant pause between us.。
And then he says this,。
"That was awesome! You're awesome!"。
And I was like, "It was awesome! It was so good!"。
We became best friends forever.。
After that day, even my pain and my sacrifice,。
to welcome him into the family,。
we were inseparable after that.。
And we were like the best mates for years.。
We skated together, had a lot of fun together.。
I never went near the ramp ever again.。
Now I wonder if you could think about the themes of risk,。
of valuing somebody,。
of doing everything you can to make them feel like。
you're a part of the family.。
Those themes, although they don't get talked a lot about at Christmas time,。
are actually the central themes of Christmas Day,。
the day that we gather here together to celebrate.。
It's the central idea of what Christmas Day is all about,。
the reality that Jesus has come.。
And when John, the gospel writer,。
wants to write a little bit about the arrival of Jesus,。
the birth of Jesus.。
Now you'll know if you know the Bible well,。
that really only Matthew and Luke include details about Jesus' birth.。
So most of the time at Christmas,。
we sit in either Matthew or Luke.。
But maybe you didn't know that John actually mentions also。
the birth of Jesus right at the beginning of his gospel.。
And when he does, he's trying to pull on the themes of risk,。
and connection, and intimacy,。
in explaining what happened on the day that we're celebrating today.。
I want to make sure I don't trip on my skateboard and break my neck.。
Let me read to you John chapter 1,。
and just a few verses where John mentions the birth of Jesus.。
Starting in verse 12.。
It says, "Yet to all who received him,。
to those who have believed in his name,。
he gave the right to become children of God.。
Children born not of descent,。
nor of human decision or a husband's will,。
but born of God.。
So the Word became flesh,。
and made his dwelling among us.。
We have seen his glory,。
the glory of the one and only,。
who came from the Father,。
full of grace and truth."。
John writes here, and he says,。
you need to understand something about the Christmas day.。
About the moment that Jesus came into the world.。
And he describes it like this.。
The Word, speaking of Jesus,。
and he's just spent the early part of this chapter explaining the Word.。
The Word was there at the beginning,。
and the Word was mighty and glorious.。
The Word was the light to the world,。
but the world didn't understand it.。
All of this beautiful stuff.。
But then he says, guess what?。
This Word didn't stay distant from us,。
but the Word took flesh and dwelt among us.。
The word dwelling there means to make a home amongst us.。
It's like literally God decided,。
I don't want heaven anymore to be my home.。
I want the earth to be my home.。
And it's almost like God was like,。
how can I take a risk to show how much I value connecting with humanity?。
You see, the incarnation was an incredible risk.。
Think about it from the perspective of God.。
He had every power in all of the universe.。
And in order to show us his love,。
and to welcome us into relationship with him,。
he was willing to give up all of that power。
and be found microscopic embryo in Mary.。
All the power of heaven dwindled to the infancy of a child.。
The incarnation is God's way of saying,。
I so value you that I'm going to move into your neighborhood。
so that you can move into my neighborhood.。
I so value you that I'm willing to take a risk。
so that you could come and know me.。
A little bit like how I was willing to take a risk on that day。
to try out that skate ramp because I wanted that kid。
to feel like he was a part of the club.。
Jesus looks down on the earth,。
looks down on broken humanity,。
and so longs to be in intimacy with one of us。
that he was willing to become one of us.。
So desiring to be in intimate relationship with you。
that he was willing to actually become like you.。
So put on eyebrows and a saliva gland and a spleen。
and move into your neighborhood。
so that he might connect with you.。
Might say, hey, I'm here with you.。
Might help you to know that there is a God。
that's willing to dwindle himself down to human level。
so that we might have a God that we could know personally.。
I mean, that's the beauty and the wonder。
of why we gather here today.。
And as a parent myself, I've experienced this kind of love。
that I think drove God to send his son on Christmas day.。
This love that says, I will do whatever it takes。
to connect with you.。
Whatever it takes to be like you.。
Your interest will become my interest.。
Your pain will be like my pain.。
I will absorb it all together so that you can know me.。
As a parent, I've come to experience that.。
Chris and I adopted our daughter Mia,。
who's sitting right here,。
and it's gonna be incredibly embarrassed,。
but I love you, baby.。
We adopted her when she was like 16 months old,。
and now she's 12,。
and she's turning into this incredible woman.。
And throughout her whole life,。
I've done everything I can to connect with her。
and to show her that love.。
And that means having her passions become my passions.。
The things that she loves become the things that I love.。
I've even gotten to the point。
where I'm listening to Blackpink.。
(audience laughing)。
Yes!。
(audience cheering)。
And I tell you, throughout our relationship,。
man, we've had some great times.。
I've become Mia's mannequin for putting makeup on。
so she could practice how to put makeup on.。
Okay, I've won pretty dresses。
so that Mia would also wear pretty dresses alongside of me.。
We've done dance-offs to '80s music all the time,。
and she always wins.。
I've had my nails painted,。
both my fingernails and my toenails painted so many times,。
I cannot count them.。
And guess what?。
That paint stays on for weeks.。
There have been so many sermons。
that I have preached with pink toenails。
that you had no idea about。
because Mia had painted my nails.。
Her interests become my interests,。
and that's my way of showing my love for her.。
And that's Christmas morning.。
That's why we're gathered here,。
because God decided that your interests were his interests.。
Your pain would become his pain.。
Your joy would be his joy。
because he wants you to be in relationship with him.。
He wants you to know him, and love drove it for him.。
This is why John, when he's trying to capture this idea for his people,。
he says this in verse 12.。
He says, "Yet all who received him,。
to those who believed in him,。
he gave the right to become the children of God."。
See, the whole purpose of the incarnation,。
the whole reason why Jesus came down on this day that we celebrate。
is so that we would then be welcomed into his family.。
Like my friend in that skateboard that day with the ramp。
who became a part of our gang,。
Jesus comes so that we might be invited into his family,。
so that we would become children of God.。
How does that process happen?。
Well, John explains it.。
He says, "For all, first of all, who have received him."。
It's a powerful statement.。
This is Christmas day where all have received Jesus.。
Whether you're a Christian or not, you have received Jesus.。
Jesus has come.。
It's a historical fact that Mary and Joseph gave birth to a child。
who had become known as Jesus.。
It's a historical fact that he lived in Galilee。
and travelled there and taught there.。
It's a historical fact that he was killed by the Roman Empire.。
This is Jesus who has come to us.。
In other words, everybody has received him,。
and that's the wonder of Christmas.。
That's the connection point of Christmas.。
And whether you're a Christian in this room or not,。
maybe someone's invited you today.。
Maybe the Christian faith is not something you're necessarily interested in,。
but you're here because you wanted to connect with the interests of somebody you love.。
Good job, see? You're being more Christian than you realize.。
There you go.。
Your daughter or your son invited you to church today,。
and you decided to come.。
Or maybe your parents invited you to come today,。
and you decided to come.。
All of that is because the world has received Jesus.。
But receiving Jesus is not enough.。
It's interesting that Christmas is actually more than that,。
because John then goes on to say this,。
"For all who have received him, to those that have believed in his name."。
You see, there are two elements that he's trying to point out to us.。
There is the beauty and the wonder of Christmas Day。
where all people in the world, whether they're Christian or not,。
have received Jesus.。
But yet something else happens.。
Something else happens for some of us。
when we come into knowing who Jesus is.。
We come to actually believe that he was more than just a child that was born in the stable,。
more than just a man who taught some good moral ethics to people in Galilee,。
more than somebody who was murdered on a cross just by the Roman Empire,。
that actually this Jesus was the Son of God.。
That actually this Jesus carries our sin and brokenness on his shoulders.。
That this Jesus in his resurrection means that we now have eternal life in him。
by grace and by his forgiveness.。
You see, Christmas is not just about receiving Jesus.。
Christmas is also about believing in Jesus.。
Those two things go side by side,。
but they're not always things that happen together.。
And I think so often the world, and so often I would even argue this,。
Christians have just received Jesus, but don't actually believe in him.。
Don't actually believe that he can do the things that he did.。
Don't actually believe that the promises of the Bible are true.。
Don't actually believe that those promises can happen and work in their lives.。
Don't actually believe that the Spirit of God could transform a society they have received,。
but they don't fully believe.。
Are you with me?。
My grandfather was the most interesting man when it came to Christmas.。
When you would give my grandfather a present from under the Christmas tree, a wrapped present,。
he would take that present, and here's what my grandfather would do.。
He would squeeze it with his hands for a bit,。
and then he would announce what he thought the present was.。
So he'd be like, "Oh, thank you for my present."。
Squeeze, squeeze, squeeze.。
"Pair of socks."。
And then he'd put it down by the side without opening it.。
And then you'd give him another present, and he'd be like, "Squeeze, squeeze, squeeze."。
"Oh, box of chocolates. Thanks so much."。
And he'd put it down on the side here.。
The scary thing was he was right 100% of the time.。
I don't know how he did it, but it was kind of scary.。
But you see, John's trying to communicate something here.。
He's saying it's not just about receiving Jesus.。
It's also about believing Him.。
And if you just receive Him without believing in Him,。
it's like you've been given the greatest gift that has ever been given,。
wrapped in the wonder of humanity,。
and you have refused to open it and encounter it.。
You've just, like my grandfather, taken a guess and put it down to the side。
and moved on with your life.。
And if Christmas is anything, it's an invitation。
into not just knowing that Jesus was born on this day,。
but actually changing your life in believing in Him。
so that your life would be forgiven of your sin,。
that your life would be changed forever,。
so that you would have eternal presence with Him in this world.。
That's the beauty of Christmas.。
It's not a present wrapped that sits on the mantelpiece。
that you look at once a year.。
It's something to be open daily in that encounter of relationship with Him.。
So think of the threads of what Christmas Day is all about.。
The risk that God had to come down to earth and be with us.。
The willingness for Him to suffer and to hurt a little bit。
so that we would come to know Him.。
The beauty of Him getting involved in our interests。
so that we might be then invited into His family.。
That's what then John says right here at the end.。
He says, "So that we would become children of God."。
There it is, part of His family.。
No longer orphans to sin, but children of God.。
Part of His life, part of who He is.。
In connection with Him, He's moved into our neighborhood。
so that we can move into His neighborhood,。
so that we can be swept up in His family.。
Like my skateboard friend who became a part of our gang,。
Jesus comes just in the flesh for you,。
shows His likeness to you,。
becomes interested in you,。
driven by love for you,。
so that you would then be a part of His family.。
Welcomed into the comfort and the safety and the security of eternal life.。
What a beautiful thing we celebrate here on Christmas morning.。
Every year, the department store in the UK, John Lewis,。
produces a Christmas small short film.。
Now, on most years, the film is really designed to help。
to advertise all of the stuff that they sell.。
But this year, in the film that they produce,。
they actually changed it a little bit。
and focused on their philanthropy work,。
the work that they do for the NGOs that they support.。
And this year in particular,。
they wanted to highlight the issue in the UK。
of children that are stuck in the foster care system。
and are institutionalised,。
and how families in the UK should open their homes。
to accept these children in.。
And although their ad was designed to kind of speak about a philanthropic,。
is that the word, philanthropic? Whatever.。
Some sort of charitable focus to it,。
actually the film contains the true, full message。
of the incarnation of Jesus.。
And as we watch this film now, I wonder whether also。
you might notice some of the other things。
that I've been talking about with you this morning.。
Let's take a look at the film.。
Yeah, we can't wait.。
We've got a piece.。
We're really excited.。
Merry Christmas.。
You OK?。
Yeah, I'm fine.。
How did it go?。
Are they on there?。
They're coming.。
Hey, Ellie.。
Hi.。
I skate a bit too.。
You want to come in?。
Oh, it's cool.。
Not as good as yours, I don't think.。
Oh, well, I'll just have a few stickers, asshole.。
I'm going to get some stickers for you.。
So, like a potential foster dad。
who's willing to have a few injuries。
in order to show an interest to a child。
so that child would be welcomed。
and feel comfortable and safe in their family.。
So, God, looking upon broken humanity,。
looking upon the orphans of us all,。
wanting to welcome us into his family,。
decides a little risk is worth it.。
And then the incarnation comes to us, like us,。
so that we ultimately would be welcomed into his family,。
so that we would be comfortable and safe in his presence.。
The beauty of Christmas morning。
is this incredible heart of love that God has,。
a heart that he has for every single person in this room,。
a desire that he is willing to do whatever it takes。
so that you would feel at home with him.。
My prayer for you on Christmas morning。
is that you would know that God,。
that you would come to experience。
the incarnation for you personally,。
that you would know that there is a Father in heaven。
who's willing to do whatever it takes。
so that you would be a child of God.。
I wonder whether we could pray together.。
Let's pray.。
Father, I'm so grateful for everybody here,。
for those online that are watching in this time,。
for those in this room here.。
Thank you, Lord, for these incredible children of God of yours.。
Lord, we thank you for the challenge today。
to not just receive you, but to believe in you.。
We thank you that through believing in you,。
we become your children.。
We thank you that you have done everything on our behalf.。
Like that father in the film。
who was willing to learn something,。
you were willing to。
devoid yourself of all of your power。
in order to be born a helpless, vulnerable child。
in a cave in Bethlehem。
so that we might know you,。
so that we might be safe in your family.。
And whilst we're praying,。
if you're here in this room,。
maybe you're not a Christian here,。
and you've been invited to be here today,。
I want to just pray for you。
and just give you a chance today。
to make the best decision you'll ever make.。
You know, that foster child on the outside of the door。
had the choice.。
No one was forcing her to come into this new family,。
but the foster father made it a welcoming place for her.。
Jesus has made his home a welcoming place for you.。
But like that foster child, the choice is yours.。
Do you step into his family,。
or do you stay on the outside?。
The door is open.。
Jesus said, "Anybody who knocks on my door,。
I will open it, and they can come in and be with me."。
And so perhaps here today on Christmas morning, 2022,。
that's the decision you want to make in your heart.。
You want to say, "I want to be a part of that family.。
I'm so grateful that God revealed himself。
in the incarnation, Jesus, for me."。
And that's a really simple thing for you to do today.。
The way you step into his home。
is just through a simple prayer.。
It's just to say this in your heart,。
"Father, I believe in you.。
I don't just receive you.。
I may not have all my questions answered,。
but I believe in you today.。
And I ask you to forgive me of the things that I've done。
that have hurt you and hurt me and hurt others.。
And I thank you that you have forgiven me.。
And will you now come and be with me,。
be in me by your Spirit?"。
So that prayer of, "I believe in you.。
Would you forgive me for things?。
And would you come and be a part of my life?"。
That's the prayer that brings you。
on the threshold into the home.。
And perhaps today that's a prayer you want to make.。
And so in the quietness of your heart,。
you can make that prayer today.。
I want to encourage you that when you make that prayer,。
just share it with somebody.。
Maybe with the person who's invited you to be here today.。
You can let them know,。
"Hey, I prayed that prayer that Pastor Andrew asked me to pray."。
And that way they can have a chat with you a little bit more.。
Or you can come and let us know after the service。
and we will chat with you too。
and let you know a little bit more。
about what it is to live an amazing life。
with Christ Jesus.。
But I also want to pray for those in this room。
who are Christian already.。
And you're here on Christmas Day。
and you probably came in today saying,。
"I've heard a thousand Christmas Day messages."。
But you're here today and I believe the Holy Spirit。
is challenging you for deeper intimacy in 2023.。
I believe that Jesus wants to get to know you even more。
and you Him.。
And maybe your prayer on Christmas morning is,。
"Lord, I want to have a deeper connection with you.。
Lord, I want to have your interests as my interests.。
I want to see this world as you see it.。
I want to see Hong Kong and my family。
and my workplace as you see them.。
Lord, I want to know your heart.。
I want to know your passion.。
I want to know the mission that you have for me。
and for this world.。
I want to be a part of a bigger story than just my own."。
And maybe 2023 for you as a Christian。
is about taking that next step。
in your discipleship with Jesus.。
So whatever it might be for you,。
we pray now that God here on Christmas Day。
would meet you and speak to you,。
love you, revive you, and welcome you again into His family.。
We thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, "Amen."。
Would you stand with me?。
And we're gonna respond together in a closing song of worship.。
And worship is so important on Christmas Day.。
It's a way of us just expressing our adoration。
and our love of God.。
So let's do that together as a family.。
