I guess when we went into it at first we were fairly simple in terms of our。
thinking of what we were trying to do. As we continued to understand what we were。
about we had to provide a much wider range of services from financial support。
and resettlement, doing research, social engagement, empowerment and in fact a。
whole range of services that are suitable for marginalized communities.。
Social justice has been part of the church for a long time, right from the。
beginnings, but when we were just a small community within the basement of a hotel。
meeting on Sundays only with maybe about 80 or 90 people it was hard for us to。
put that into practice. But several years later by the time we moved into our own。
premises we realized that we had perhaps better facilities to offer what we would。
describe as a 24/7 service. And at that time God provided an。
opportunity for us. Quite amazing, we had this letter from an asylum seeker who。
was being detained at the time and he asked us if we would come and visit him.。
And so of course we felt this was the right thing to do to respond well to it。
and we went to see him, we went through all the procedures of getting in and。
understanding how all of that worked and we developed a relationship with him,。
visited him regularly. So when it came for the time for him to be released and。
others to be released they asked if they could come to our church and we said yes。
of course we'd be delighted if you came. And the ministry of working with the。
asylum seekers has now grown into the road program which is part of Branches of Hope.。
We were asked to host a gala performance of a documentary film。
produced by another NGO which showed the difficulties and issues of sex。
trafficking in various parts of the world. And when we saw this we were quite。
astonished because the understanding of what is involved in sex trafficking was。
not generally understood at that time. We soon began to realize just the。
trauma and the grooming that went on and just the difficulty that girls had who。
were brought into and forced to provide services in that area. And so after we。
had watched this we began to ask the question what is happening in Hong Kong?。
How is this related to what's going on in Hong Kong?。
We formed a small movement within the church, I guess it was, of people who were。
interested in trying to work with people who have been subject to trafficking or。
to exploitation. And as a result of that an organization called Stop Trafficking。
of People was formed and eventually came under the direction and heading of。
Branches of Hope.。
Branches of Hope is the Vine community's investment to the city of Hong Kong.。
It is basically our witness to the truth and the vitality of the gospel and so it。
is important in that sense that we provide something which is a visible。
evidence of what we believe. Well I asked the congregation to listen carefully to。
the work and the experience of Branches of Hope today and as you consider this。
to ask the Holy Spirit to guide you and to give generously so that this work can。
continue and that Branches of Hope get the support and the assistance that they。
need to do the work which is vital to us.。
[Music]。
Well Church, welcome to BOH Sunday. Let's give a round of applause to Pastor Tony.。
He is a treasure to our community. If you have spent any amount of time with Pastor。
Tony you'll know just how sweet and dear he is to us as a community of faith here.。
So we love you Tony. He was here at the earlier service but I just want to give。
him his flowers whenever possible because we really do appreciate him.。
Well we are on BOH Sunday and so the message today is going to be talking about a role。
we can play in this grand scheme of what God has called us to do through BOH.。
Let me tell you a bit more about myself. I think as the weeks have gone。
past it's always good to get to know each other. So most of you know I。
grew up here in Hong Kong. One of the privileges of growing up in this city,。
there's so many wonderful things but it is a busy cosmopolitan city and so we。
see a lot of trends come through this city. A while back I guess,。
sticker machines were all the rage and I think they're still kind of popular。
today but back in the day if you went on a date, in order to get a good。
date you take your date to the sticker machines and make all these cute。
pictures. You can change yourself into rabbits and all these。
different kind of things. Put little flowers and you have all those kind of。
stuff. So sticker machines were very popular. Frozen yogurt was very。
popular for a while. Do you remember when every other shop was FroYo?。
You could get FroYo here, FroYo there, FroYo was everywhere and then suddenly。
they all disappeared. I was a bit disappointed because。
they didn't all have to disappear. I thought there was a bit much but。
not all at the same time. It's hard to find frozen yogurt these days but FroYo。
was a trend for a while. One of the most interesting trends I think we saw。
in this city and it became such a big, it was not just a trend, it was like an。
industry in this city that generated probably millions and millions of。
dollars, was the counterfeit DVDs and computer games. Hong Kong was famous。
for this. I used to study abroad and my friends used to order fake。
DVDs and they would ask me to bring back to them. But they were。
everywhere. It was like an open secret. Just down the road there's a shopping。
mall, 298, that used to be dedicated to fake DVDs, fake computer games.。
The system was pretty sophisticated. You walk into this room.。
By the way, allegedly this is what you would do. As a good Christian boy I have。
never been to one of these places. This is all hearsay. Apparently what。
you would do is I walk into this room and there'd be a post, there'd be。
little pictures of all the DVDs and the games you wanted. You would。
write the numbers, you know, JN 15 5, TX whatever. You write them。
on a little piece of paper. They all correspond to the movie or the game you。
wanted and then you gave the paper to the man or the lady, whoever was working at。
the shop, the person working there. Then you come back 10 minutes later, they。
give you a little black plastic bag and there, voila, would be your entertainment。
for the evening. Like I said, never been to one of these places.。
Certainly never been locked in one while the police were doing a raid and my mom's。
calling me on the phone saying "Find money!" I was like "I don't even know where I am right now!"。
This was back in the day. Any movie you wanted you could get in one。
of those places. The strange thing about these DVDs though, they were so。
obviously fake, yet everybody still wanted them. Even those computer games,。
half the time it wouldn't be the right game. So you think you'd buy one。
game, you get a different game. Half the time there was like a virus so your。
computer would get infected. So the games are always a mess. The DVDs though。
were the most interesting things. So again, back in the day there were still。
camcorder versions. You remember those? So someone would go into the。
movie and record it on a video camera and then reproduce it on a。
video disc and then you would buy that disc. So you'd be watching at home but。
then there'd be a head in front of you, moving around.。
You'd hear the person coughing. It's just ridiculous. The most funny。
was sometimes the movie would be one thing but the subtitles would be to a。
different movie. So the movie would be like "Die Hard, Die Another Day,。
Bruce Willis, jumping out of planes, beating up bad guys" and the。
subtitles would be "Mean Girls, get in loser, we're going shopping".。
So it completely did not match the movie that it was supposed to be showing.。
But why did they sell so well? Why were these so popular? Well because they。
were cheap, allegedly $150, you could get 10 movies for $150 Hong Kong dollars.。
So 10 movies. In Hong Kong we speak they were "peng, lang, teng".。
Cheap, beautiful and good, decent enough. Now for things like DVDs and。
video games and things like that, there's a certain appeal to it.。
But the danger of this sort of mentality is, especially us in a fast,。
convenient city like Hong Kong, is that this mentality begins to seep into。
our faith and the way we begin to treat one another as well.。
And so the question at hand for us as we consider BOH on this Sunday is this.。
How do we know whether the love we have for each other is true or not?。
Or are we just settling for a cheap, easy, convenient form of loving each other?。
This is a crucial question we need to answer because as followers of Jesus,。
love sits at the very centre of our identity in Christ.。
And we certainly don't want to be known as the kind of Christians that might。
appear to have real love on the outside, but if we dig a little deeper into our。
lives, we're like a bunch of fake DVDs with head shadows and wrong subtitles.。
The kind of Christians that are only able to love when it's cheap and easy。
and convenient for us.。
But Scripture tells us something different.。
Scripture tells us there is actually a way to know what is real when it comes to。
how we love each other.。
1 John 3, 16 to 18 tells us this.。
This is how we know what love is.。
Jesus Christ laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for our。
brothers and sisters.。
If anyone has material possessions and see a brother or a sister in need but has no。
pity on them, how can the love of God be in that person?。
Dear children, let us not love with words or speech, but with actions as and in truth.。
There's a confidence here to what John is writing.。
This is how we know what love is.。
John is telling us there is a definite way to know.。
See, he himself, John knows this because he has learned these things firsthand.。
He has firsthand experience through walking with Jesus, through living with Jesus,。
through doing ministry with his Savior.。
He knows what love is because he has seen and felt this love.。
And ultimately, of course, he saw the way that Jesus Christ laid down his life for us。
on the cross.。
This is how John knows.。
And indeed, as we read through the Gospels, as we read Scripture,。
we get a picture of how Jesus lived his life.。
And what do we see?。
Well, firstly, we see Jesus always teaching his disciples about the importance of caring。
for those who may have less than us, for the poor, for the weak, and the oppressed.。
Luke 14, Jesus gives us an example.。
"But when you give a banquet, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame,。
the blind, and you will be blessed.。
Although they cannot repay you, you will be repaid at the resurrection。
of the righteous."。
Time after time after time, Jesus teaches us the importance of looking after those。
who have not, caring for the poor and the vulnerable, welcoming those who have been。
labeled as outcasts and strangers.。
But it wasn't just talk, it wasn't just teaching that Jesus gave,。
but Jesus was always the one who was willing to actively do these things.。
He was always the one willing to stand with the poor, the weak, and the oppressed.。
Jesus was always the one willing to reach out to the outcasts of society,。
the sinners, and the prostitutes, the lepers, people that were deemed not worthy。
to be in community.。
Jesus was always the one who was showing care and provided for the ones who needed。
it the most.。
And ultimately, Jesus showed that even though he himself was in a position。
of power and authority, he was willing to give everything up so that we could。
be set free.。
Philippians 2 reminds us of this, "Having this mind among yourselves,。
which is yours in Christ Jesus," Paul says, "who though he was in the form。
of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself。
by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men,。
and being found in human form."。
Listen, "He humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death,。
even death on a cross."。
And we know beyond the shadow of a doubt that Jesus laid his life down for us,。
both in the way he lived his life on this earth, but also, of course,。
the ultimate sacrifice on the cross.。
This is the foundation of our faith.。
This is the part we know and love.。
This is the part we want to rest in, right?。
This is the part that gives us comfort.。
This is probably what made you fall in love with Jesus in the first place.。
A person that loved me so much that would die for me, a person that thinks that way。
about me, I could get behind this.。
But hand in hand with that has to come a response from us.。
There is responsibility.。
There is a need here to respond in a real and tangible way.。
And we've been talking about this throughout the year because it's an。
essential part of our relationship as identity, as a follower of Jesus.。
In other words, if we really want to be like Jesus, this must mean living our。
life as he did.。
And if Jesus laid his life down for us, the challenge is now that we ought to lay。
our lives down for our brothers and sisters.。
Again, though, this asks us a question.。
What does it mean to lay our lives down for our brothers and our sisters?。
So on one level, I think ultimately it involves literally laying our life down。
in a very real way.。
Just as Jesus was willing to literally go to the cross and die for us, if it ever。
comes to that extreme moment, would we also be willing to die for others?。
If the call for martyrdom ever came on behalf of our brothers and sisters,。
would we take that call?。
Now, we're fortunate enough to live in a time and place where perhaps most of us。
in this room don't have to worry about these things, although perhaps I think。
that there are people who have fled their homes in fear of persecution in their。
faith in Jesus.。
But in some sense, I even think that a heroic moment of martyrdom is sort of。
easier to do in some ways.。
You know what?。
If push came to shove, we would say, "I'd be willing to put my neck on the line。
for faith.。
I'd be willing to go all the way for my family.。
I could do that."。
And that's good.。
That's great.。
That's brave.。
That's the kind of faith we always want to cultivate.。
However, like I said, if we were going to keep it real, the majority of us will never。
really be called to take such a drastic action.。
So does that mean this verse doesn't apply to us?。
That we don't need to do anything unless that very big and dramatic moment comes。
knocking on our door?。
What scripture is trying to teach us here is that laying down your life doesn't always。
have to mean literally giving up your life.。
But laying down your lives is actually a much more down-to-earth,。
much more practical, and probably an even more challenging way to live.。
John gives us very clear advice and expectations on what laying down our life。
for our brothers and sisters means.。
And he's not talking about a dramatic death, a sacrifice of martyrdom,。
but rather it's a sacrificial life.。
It's sacrificial living.。
Verse 17, "If anyone has material possessions and sees a brother or sister。
in need but has no pity on them, how can the love of God be in that person?"。
In other words, the needs of this world is not for heroic acts of martyrdom so much,。
but more for heroic acts of material sacrifice.。
And in a way, like I said, this is the harder thing to do because living like this。
means that we cannot just love each other in a cheap way.。
Living like this means our lives are going to be disrupted.。
We really have to have the love of Jesus in our hearts and not some fake pirated DVD。
cheap version here.。
Jesus reminds us of the same concept himself, "Greater love has no one than this,。
than he lay his life down for our friends."。
To make it even more clear, Scripture says in James chapter 2,。
"Suppose a brother or a sister is without clothes and daily food.。
If one of you says to him or her, 'Go, I wish you well.。
Keep warm and well-fed,' but does nothing about their physical needs,。
what good is it?"。
Genuine love must be accompanied with tangible action and actual giving.。
We cannot say we love God if we're not loving each other because if anyone says,。
"I love God," yet hates his brother, he is a liar.。
For anyone who does not love his brother who he has seen cannot love God whom he。
has seen.。
Love for God, providing for brothers and sisters, goes hand in hand.。
I mean, think about it this way.。
What if Jesus said, "I love you.。
I'm here for you," but never actually did anything for us?。
Didn't go to the cross, didn't offer us a way out of our sin and darkness and shame?。
What if all you ever did was say to your friends and family, "Yeah, I love you.。
I love you.。
I love you," but never actually did anything to show them that love?。
Didn't provide for them, weren't there for them, didn't listen to them.。
Would that really be love at all?。
And I contest to us, brothers and sisters today, the same has to apply to us here,。
this family, this community of followers of Jesus.。
Because amongst us today, amongst our family, there most certainly are brothers。
and sisters who are in need.。
And perhaps the most vulnerable people out of all in our city, for those who are in。
need, our brothers and sisters in the refugee and asylum seeker community,。
they are our brothers and sisters who have become victims of human trafficking。
and forced labor.。
I won't go into the facts and stats.。
You know, you can look up for yourselves, but imagine yourself living in this city,。
not being able to work, not being able to earn money.。
You can't even attend school or go on a course or anything like that.。
Living in one of the most expensive cities in the world, facing all kinds of racial。
and social prejudice, this is the reality that they face every day.。
Imagine being coerced into coming to a big, strange city looking for a job so that you。
could provide a future for your family, only to find out that you've been。
exploited and abused.。
Material possessions, food, clothing, shelter, healthcare, education,。
things we might actually take for granted, things that we have plenty of.。
If we see these needs in others and have no pity on them and don't actually do。
anything to help those who need these things, then we don't really have love。
inside of us.。
How can the love of God be in that person?。
The answer is, it's not.。
Therefore, laying down our lives is a commitment we make to each other.。
It's saying that because I love Jesus and because you love Jesus and Jesus loves。
you, that makes us brothers and sisters.。
That makes us a body of Christ.。
That makes us a family.。
And when one part of the body hurts, the whole body hurts.。
So yes, we're saying we're willing to go out of our way to help, to help meet the。
needs, to be made uncomfortable or inconvenienced ourselves so that others。
in need might have the life we live as well.。
The bottom line is this, the way we show love must, it has to involve those who are。
taking care of those who are in need whilst we still have time on this earth.。
It's not just something we talk about, but we have to practice it.。
And this is going to mean using your resources, your talent,。
sacrificing yourselves, being inconvenienced to relieve the needs of others.。
This church, what it looks like to love in action and in truth.。
Now, it all seems a bit overwhelming, right?。
You're feeling guilty right now, maybe feeling convicted.。
You're, "Okay, okay, what do you want me to give?"。
Right?。
That's not what it's about.。
Let me give us a starting point.。
The first thing we need in this journey of sacrificial living for the others,。
the first thing we need is to open ourselves and allow the Holy Spirit。
to speak to us.。
This has to be our starting point because remember, this is God's idea, right?。
We're not just talking about goodwill or charity.。
That's not what it's about.。
It's about God's heart.。
It's about doing what God has called us to do.。
But when we are obedient in the way he wants us to give, if we're obedient in the。
way he wants us to sacrifice, and it might be very different in every single person,。
God's going to use that in a way that you could have never come up with yourself.。
Let me give you an example by sharing this personal story with you.。
A few years ago, my wife and I were on a Christmas outreach.。
This was a few years ago.。
We were out in the TST area, and the outreach was to meet ladies who were。
working on the streets in the sex industry to let them know about a Christmas party,。
a bazaar that they were hosting the next day.。
And so we were walking around, and we talked to a few people, and the whole。
afternoon went pretty normal, like nothing super eventful.。
We came across a few people.。
We gave them an invitation, had a quick chat with them.。
Nothing spectacular actually happened on that afternoon itself.。
And soon enough, it came time for us to meet up with a big group again,。
and it was time to go home.。
But on the way back, my wife Brittany said, "Hey, you know,。
let's just walk down this road one more time."。
This was on Moody Road in TST.。
I still remember it very vividly.。
"Let's go the long way.。
I feel like God's saying, 'Walk down this road one more time,。
and we'll see what happens.'"。
And so we did.。
Very simple instruction God was giving.。
We walked down this road one more time.。
And as we walked down this road, we bumped into Donna.。
And so as we did with the other ladies, we stopped, we chatted,。
and invited Donna to come to the event.。
Now, we must have, you know, the whole team must have handed about like 50 or so。
invitation cards out that afternoon.。
And we weren't sure what kind of a response we got.。
And indeed, the response was quite low.。
But one of the people who responded the next day was Donna.。
So Donna shows up to this ministry center, and that was the moment we get。
to got to chat with her, sit with her, got to know her story a little bit better.。
And Donna was from an African country.。
She came to Hong Kong because she was promised a job as a caretaker for。
elderly people.。
But of course, that was a lie.。
And she ended up being a victim of human trafficking.。
Her money soon ran out, which meant that she had to claim asylum.。
And to make ends meet, she turned to sex work.。
But through the support of the ministry, through prayer,。
through the community coming around her, through people giving sacrificially time,。
money, and resources to make sure she didn't have to go back on the streets,。
through providing her with new skills training, by the time she went back to her。
home country, Donna was like a new person.。
And to this day, you know, we're still in touch every now and then.。
She had learned baking skills while she was in Hong Kong.。
So when she got back to her home country, she opened up a bakery.。
But actually, in fact, her real passion was to educate children.。
So out of the resources that she got from opening her bakery,。
she has now started three different schools in her home country,。
educating children, giving them a hope and a future as well.。
There's evidence, there's pictures we could show you to see the amazing work God。
has done in her life.。
Now again, what did it actually require of me that day?。
Not very much.。
Giving up an afternoon, walking a few extra blocks in response to the Holy Spirit's。
prompting, but it was a response of action and of truth.。
It was a response of love and obedience.。
It was a response of actually doing something that God had asked us to do.。
And so in a minute, Alex, our executive director, branches of hope,。
beloved friend and colleague, will come here and share.。
He's going to tell you a little bit about the needs of VOH.。
And as Alex explains these needs to you, as you hear them, I believe that there's。
a response and an action that everyone in this room can take today when you hear。
about them.。
For some, I pray it might be to write a big check and say, "Yes,。
I have the resources.。
I'm going to give generously today."。
For some, maybe it's, "I'm going to sponsor a family in the STAR program,"。
which we'll hear a bit more about.。
For some of you, it might be saying, "I'm going to commit to making friends。
with someone in the refugee and asylum seeker community.。
I'm going to volunteer my time.。
I'm going to do community with them."。
Whatever it is, if we claim to have the love of God in our hearts,。
which I think all of us here do have the love of God in our hearts,。
then here's an opportunity to demonstrate it by the way we lay down our lives。
for each other.。
So, ladies and gentlemen, would you help me in welcoming our lovely。
Executive Director of Branches of Hope, Alex.。
- Thank you.。
Thanks, Alison.。
Hello, everyone.。
It is always a moving experience to be here with you all in the Vine for Branches。
of Hope Sunday.。
It is a real privilege to be given this space to tell you a little bit more。
about ourselves and also to invite all of you to walk alongside us.。
Now, before I pick up where Pastor Alison left off, I'd like to show you two short。
videos just to illustrate the needs of the people that we're serving through the。
Road and Stop programs and as well to illustrate a little bit about the impact。
that we have at Branches of Hope.。
♪ [music] ♪。
- My name is Ali.。
I am from Yemen.。
When I come Hong Kong, I need help for asylum seeker, for some homes,。
and how can we live here?。
The difficult government now give enough for rent, for food, everything,。
not enough.。
This problem, and the asylum seeker cannot work.。
If I go work, maybe I go jail, catch me police or migration.。
This is problem.。
And I worry for my family.。
I have three baby here.。
Yeah, because this big problem.。
Some friend, he tell me, "You can go buy in charge.。
After I go, after.。
Help me."。
I give extra money for rent, for something, for school, for...yeah.。
Have class English because we're boring in Hong Kong, no work, no.。
I am happy because help me.。
The buying help for some money every month, we're fine.。
♪ [music] ♪。
- Now, some of you may have noticed that in his testimony, Ali actually didn't。
mention branches of hope by name.。
He spoke of the vine.。
And I think this is a beautiful symbol of just how closely aligned branches of hope。
and the vine are.。
And I'll come back to that in a little bit.。
But what I want you to take away from the story is, you know, the sense of stifled。
opportunities that Ali and his family face, the limited resources that they have。
to deal with, and the endless waiting to find out what happens next, you know.。
We walk together with asylum seekers like Ali and his family to meet these。
challenges head-on and to strengthen their sense of dignity while they're here。
in Hong Kong.。
Now, let's have a look at another video.。
- My name is Anna.。
I'm from the Philippines.。
I came to Hong Kong my first time in 2019.。
I worked with my employer for four years and three months.。
I came here through my sister-in-law.。
She helped me to come here.。
I have been involved with criminal exploitation.。
The police came in my employer's house and then arrest me.。
Some people, these people, I don't know, they use my name to use it in illegal,。
criminal, criminal what is.。
That's why I'm involved with this case.。
- That's why you lose your job?。
- Yeah, I lose my job.。
I'm so grateful and blessed because I found my where to live because I don't have job.。
I cannot afford to stay in the boarding house.。
And then after that, my co-shelter introduced me about the stop.。
I go to the office and then ask for help.。
The basic necessities, they help us.。
They help me.。
And then I also share with my, I can also share some with my co-shelter.。
Not only financial, also emotional, they are very, very kind.。
They help me a lot.。
That's why I'm in good now.。
I always thank God because even though I face this struggle, I'm about to face it because。
the people surround me, especially stop.。
I feel, I feel not alone.。
We can always rely on them.。
Sadly, Anna's story is also quite typical of the community we serve through the stop。
program.。
In fact, you might have heard some parallels to the story of Donna that Alison shared,。
right?。
She's somebody who has left their family, their home behind in order to make a living,。
you know, which in itself is a very difficult decision.。
Then only to end up in a situation where they're being exploited and in some terrible cases。
scammed into illegal acts.。
So this is, again, indicative a little bit about the community that we serve through。
the stop program.。
The support that we provided Anna and cases like her is what actually allows them to even。
begin to access justice, right?。
Because if they aren't able to sustain themselves more often than not, it's a short process。
for them and they're not actually able to see through and gain the justice that they。
deserve.。
No matter how many times I hear stories like Ali's and Anna's, they move me deeply every。
single time.。
I could not be standing in front of you all doing what I do if that were not the case.。
But here's the thing.。
What I want you to think about, what I want you to realize is that these are only two。
stories, two voices out of thousands that have already been served by Branches of Hope。
since it was founded by the Vine Church.。
And the thing is, there are multiple thousands more who we have yet to reach.。
If you're not familiar with Branches of Hope, Tony's introduction at the beginning of the。
sermon today was a great starting point.。
But let me just briefly summarize what it is that we actually do.。
We have a dedicated team of passionate professionals who work as part of our two programs, the。
Refugee Opportunity and Development Program, or ROAD, and the Stop Trafficking of People。
Program, or STOP.。
Those two programs together serve refugees, asylum seekers, and those who are facing situations。
of trafficking or labor exploitation here in Hong Kong.。
What we do is we provide three main things.。
We provide care, we provide empowerment, and we raise awareness.。
We provide social change.。
The way that we do that is by providing for the immediate material needs.。
So we care for them, we provide shelter, food, medical referrals, whatever is in that immediate。
need that they might have.。
We empower them to live a more dignified life while they're here in Hong Kong and give them。
hope.。
That could be through some of our classes, some of our community activities.。
And we raise awareness for the situations in which they're in.。
Because unfortunately, so often it's far too easy to overlook not just the situations in。
which they are, but the people in those situations as well.。
And they don't deserve that.。
Nobody deserves to go unnoticed.。
None of what we have achieved and nothing that we are ambitious about achieving in the。
future could be possible without you and this community and Jesus Christ.。
I'm going to say that again.。
Nothing we have done, nothing that we are going to do is possible without you and this。
community and Jesus Christ.。
Can I get an amen?。
Every little act of faith adds together to be greater than the sum of its parts.。
What I do, what you do, what every single one of us does, you can break it down into。
those little building blocks, but ultimately if God is moving among us, the outcome is。
far greater than what we could have imagined.。
Like Tony said, social justice is part of the Vine's identity.。
It's DNA even.。
And with the Vine as our founding member, we share that DNA to this day as we strive。
to fulfill what we were called to do, and that is to be the justice expression of this。
community.。
This is why Ali, you know, in the video, not making a distinction between the Vine Church。
and Branches of Hope is so significant.。
Because when it comes to the passion to serve, when it comes to that heart of service, we。
are one and the same.。
That's not just reflected in today's sermon, but on many a Sunday here at the Vine Church.。
Be it Carla preaching on Lazarus and the rich man, or, you know, promise of dissecting the。
church's role in reconciling humanity, or Andrew reflecting on the subversive act of。
generosity, the list goes on.。
This is not something that we only do once a year.。
This is a rolling theme for this church.。
You know, something that has been bouncing around my mind when we, ever since we first。
started planning Branches of Hope Sunday for this year and started to kind of zero in on。
what we wanted the lineup to be, and finally decided to have Tony and Allison play these。
parts for us, is it's actually a very beautiful combination.。
You all know Tony.。
He's the founding pastor of the Vine Church.。
You know, you can consider him the OG of the Vine Church in many respects.。
And in that capacity, he was also the architect behind the founding of Branches of Hope.。
He was there from day zero.。
And Allison, well, you know, he's gotten a bit older too.。
He's not part of 180 anymore.。
Let's put it that way.。
Let's be kind.。
But he does represent a younger generation of spiritual leaders at the Vine Church.。
And it just runs the full gauntlet, doesn't it?。
You know, from the very beginning until now, and to have these two generations, these two。
spiritual leaders of our church stand here on our behalf, supporting us, walking with。
us, pouring themselves out into the issues that we deal with, it means so much to me,。
to my team, and more importantly to the community that we serve.。
And here's the thing.。
It also speaks to the resilience of this church and the values it was built around.。
Did anybody here watch the Olympics?。
Yeah?。
A couple of you did.。
Maybe just the opening or closing ceremonies?。
None of the sports?。
All right.。
The important thing is, did you see the lighting of the Olympic flame?。
Iconic, right?。
That's what this feels like to me.。
Though the years come and go, and the faces both behind the pulpit and in the chairs change。
over time, this church stays true to its mission and itself, passing on the flame of faith,。
of justice and righteousness from generation to generation.。
That is what Branches of Hope Sunday is all about.。
It's about sharing the flame.。
Some of you will have been coming to the Vine for many years, and you have kept our flame。
alight in all that time.。
Please hear me when I say from the bottom of my heart, thank you so very much.。
It is your faithfulness that has sustained us.。
You light the path that we tread on.。
Others among you may have only been recently coming to the Vine or not have had the chance。
to become involved with Branches of Hope.。
Well, you're lucky.。
Today is your chance, not just to make a tangible contribution, but ultimately to become part。
of something bigger, to be a part of our impact, to be a part of this community, and fundamentally。
to carry that flame forward.。
Now it can take many different shapes.。
Alison already alluded to that previously.。
At the very, very basic instance, what I'm asking from you all is your prayers.。
As a community in Christ, I need all of you to be able to intercede on our behalf, to。
pray for the needs of our community, to pray that Branches of Hope has the talent, the。
grit, the resources to keep doing day in and day out what they are doing.。
And believe me, there are challenges in this work.。
We recently actually released a prayer guide through the community groups, and I invite。
you to have a look at that prayer guide.。
If you don't know where to start, it's a great place to have a look at, get a sense。
of what it is that we do, but also to read about the prayer requests directly from our。
community.。
So if there's one thing you want to do tonight, I ask you to pray.。
For those who want to put their faith into action, come and volunteer with us.。
We have a bunch of events every single year.。
We've got the football tournament coming up in just a couple of weeks.。
We need your help.。
Without volunteers, we're not able to make these things work.。
We're not able to make it run smoothly.。
Come and spend some time with us.。
Come and help us out.。
If you want to come to meet some of the communities that we serve, then go on an outreach with。
our STOP team.。
They go on outreach to the migrant domestic workers on Sundays.。
Get to know them.。
If you're connected somehow to the US or Canada, we would love for you to put us in。
touch with your networks, to those who could be potential supporters for refugees and asylum。
seekers when they leave Hong Kong.。
The US and Canada are the only two places that we're actually able to help people get。
to and come back into a situation of flourishing, being able to enjoy the full rights and freedoms。
that we get to enjoy here in Hong Kong that they are denied.。
But for the time being that they are here in Hong Kong, I invite you to invest in our。
STAR program.。
This is a monthly financial assistance program that we've set up that allows you to contribute。
to the financial stability of family members here in Hong Kong.。
And believe me, even the smallest amounts make up a huge difference every single month.。
I invite you to explore all of these opportunities more just right outside the door after the。
service.。
My colleagues are eager to have a chat with you.。
But I want to be honest with you.。
In this moment today, what I want to call you to do is to reflect on Ellison's message。
and respond to the love of Christ.。
Ellison spoke of heroic acts of material sacrifice.。
But let's face it, sacrifice sounds painful.。
So instead, what I am offering you is to become a part of a living, breathing act of faith。
that continues to do God's work in Hong Kong and has been sustained for the past decade.。
It is with shameless audacity that I, like the friend knocking at your door at midnight,。
that I am calling on all of you to become a part of Branches of Hope and carry the flame。
forward.。
If this is your church, if this is where you tithe, if you believe in the social justice。
mission of Divine Church and Branches of Hope, then I pray that the Holy Spirit moves among。
you to give and give generously out of compassion and conviction.。
May God bless and multiply your offerings so that we may continue His work and together。
be a light that shines just a little brighter in the city we all call home.。
Thank you.。
>> Thank you, Alex.。
Well, this is an opportunity now for us to respond.。
And you will notice that we didn't take up our tithes and offerings in our usual way。
after our worship because we as a church wanted to create the space and also to say that we。
will give everything that is given today.。
All the tithes, all the offerings, all the donations that is given will go directly to。
the work of Branches of Hope.。
So there are a number of ways that you can give.。
They will be showing on the screens.。
The envelopes on your chairs also are available for you and our hosts will hand out the buckets.。
At the same time, after the service, there will be an opportunity to meet with the incredible。
team outside and to hear about what they're doing, to buy some of the merchandise that。
is there and also to support the STAR program as well.。
So in this atmosphere, would you stand with me as we begin to worship in our response。
as we as a church declare that we are a church of social justice, we are a church that does。
more than just speak out, but actually our action is a witness to everyone in this city.。
So let us respond and then we will come and one of our Arise community will be praying。
for the offering as I then close our service.。
If you feel that during this week that you would also like to give, then please you can。
do it in the same way that we have showed in the various QR codes.。
Just we ask that you would put in the remarks that it is for BOH Sunday to make sure that。
we can forward all of that to BOH.。
And I would love to invite Mercy.。
Mercy is from our Arise community and she is going to pray for our offering and as we。
close our service together.。
Dear Heavenly Father, thank you for all your blessing toward us.。
Thank you that you are loving Father who take care of all of us children.。
We put our hope of faith in our trust in you to provide for all needs.。
You told us to seek your will in our first.。
Enter priorities walking according to your way.。
As we do that, you promise to meet all of daily needs.。
We thank you for your promise toward us.。
Father, we lift up this offering that has been received through the generosity of all。
your people here today.。
We have already been receiving from you and now it is our joy to freely give back to you。
for the work of bringing you kingdom here on earth.。
Just as it is in heaven, thank you for inviting us to partner with you in this way.。
We ask you to bless this offering and to give us wisdom as we stay with this resources of。
your behalf.。
May your will be done and your kingdom continue to grow in your lives in our city.。
We pray.。
This is the mercy of Jesus.。
In the name of Jesus, amen.。
Amen.。
Thank you everyone for joining and being part of our BOH Sunday.。
Don't forget to check out the booths and to meet with the incredible staff.。
Well done, BOH staff.。
You did an amazing job today.。
Do check out what's going on there in the booths.。
And of course, if you would like prayer, then please also do come forward.。
We will have a prayer team that would love to pray with you.。
It's been great to have you here in our service.。
Have a wonderful rest of your day.。
God bless.。
Take care and we'll see you next week.。
Bye.。
[Music]。
