Yeah, actually, Philip, why don't you come up here?。
So this is Pastor Philip.。
He's, let's welcome him, yeah?。
(audience applauding)。
He's a colleague and a friend,。
so he's the young adult's pastor in one tribe.。
And you know, one thing that always strikes me about Philip。
is sometimes you meet people who just have。
a genuine, deep, personal relationship with Jesus.。
You know, and that's something that I always see in Philip,。
just when he talks, when he prays for me, when we share.。
You know, it's somebody that lives in that intimacy.。
And so I'm always blessed, so I know we'll be blessed also。
by what God has spoken to him.。
Also, his wife, Christina, and Cyril are here as well,。
so we're excited to have all of you,。
but I would love to pray for you and for us,。
so let's stretch our hands and let's pray.。
Jesus, thank you so much for Philip,。
for your work in his life, for your calling,。
for your anointing.。
Pray that, Holy Spirit, you strengthen him,。
empower him today to deliver what you have spoken to him.。
And Lord, I also pray for us as a church。
that you would open our hearts, our minds,。
for what it is that you wanna speak,。
and that we would be ready to respond to what you say.。
We pray this in your name, Jesus, amen.。
- Amen, thank you, Tim.。
Hello, exciting to be here.。
So, you know, if you do see me in Yuen Long or in Wan Chai,。
just call me Philip.。
I feel the more endearing term is just Philip, you know.。
Anyway, we're back in this Longing for Healing series,。
and I am so excited, particularly because I also possess。
a chronic health condition.。
Some of you might know of it from our January devotions.。
I'm gonna share a little bit more about it.。
But, you know, starting in my youth,。
I was always circling and marking places in the gospels。
where it talks about Jesus's healing,。
as I prayed for that healing to also take effect。
and take place in me.。
And so today I'm just gonna share what God's heart。
is on healing for all of us,。
and maybe there is something for all of us to learn.。
The over the past few weeks,。
there was one important point that we learned about healing。
and that God's healing is universal.。
God's healing is for all.。
And as I was mincing these words,。
two things really draw out.。
One is that when we say that God's healing is for all,。
we're talking about the non-discriminatory nature。
of God's healing.。
God wants to heal regardless of our status,。
regardless of our condition,。
regardless of what religion we have, what gender we are.。
So it's regardless of what disposition it talks about worth,。
he doesn't care, he gives healing in that way.。
This is very important because we, as Pastor Tim shared,。
we also play a part in each other's healing.。
We are agents of healing,。
and we don't wanna get in the way of God's healing。
just because we have a different opinion。
about who should get healed and who shouldn't get healed.。
Okay, so I talked about the non-discriminatory nature。
of why healing is universal.。
Now I wanna talk about the breadth of healing.。
It is for those who are seeking physical healing like me,。
it is to those who are seeking。
under the service kind of healing,。
some deep psychological, mental, social,。
any types of healing that we can't really see in the outside.。
And if we go even one step further,。
and I'm talking about the breadth here,。
we're talking about people。
who aren't necessarily seeking healing as well.。
Healing is also for them.。
Healing is for those who think,。
actually, I'm quite fine on a perfectly fine day.。
There isn't much or any to heal from.。
And we believe that God's breadth of healing,。
also there's healing taking place for them.。
Healing is discipleship.。
And so if we draw together the non-discriminatory nature。
and the breadth of God's healing and why healing is for all,。
we come to this message today.。
We arrive here and we can say, hang on,。
maybe that this message is also for all.。
Healing is for all, this message is for all,。
and nobody could actually be complacent here。
to say, actually, it doesn't apply to me.。
And so with this, how about we go into today's message?。
Notice here in today's message,。
Zacchaeus, which we're gonna be talking about in Luke 19,。
he wasn't necessarily seeking healing as well,。
if we notice it.。
If we know the story,。
he was trying to get on the tree to see Jesus,。
and he wasn't after anything.。
And yet, the irony of picking this story today。
for the Longing for Healing series is making this point,。
that this message and that healing is for all of us.。
So why don't we read together Luke 19, verse one to 10.。
You can follow me on three, one, two, and three.。
Jesus entered Jericho and was passing through.。
A man was there by the name of Zacchaeus.。
He was a chief tax collector and was wealthy.。
He wanted to see who Jesus was,。
but because he was short, he could not see over the crowd.。
So he ran ahead and climbed the sycamore fig tree。
to see him.。
Since Jesus was coming that way,。
when Jesus reached the spot, he looked up and said to him,。
Zacchaeus, come down immediately.。
I must stay at your house today.。
So he came down at once and welcomed him gladly.。
All the people saw this began to mutter.。
He has gone to be the guest of a sinner.。
But Zacchaeus stood up and said to the Lord,。
look, Lord, here and now,。
I give half of my possessions to the poor,。
and if I've cheated anybody out of anything,。
I will pay back four times the amount.。
Jesus said to him, today salvation has come to this house。
because this man too is a son of Abraham.。
For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
So as we read the passage, it doesn't take a fine eye。
to notice that something is quite not pleasant with Zacchaeus.。
We know everything that Luke writes about。
has been handed on to him by eyewitnesses.。
And so as we are Luke's audience,。
we can really gauge the sentiment in the room.。
We can exactly visualize what's happening here。
that nobody really likes Zacchaeus.。
The first descriptions already tell us how far off。
he fared in his own people's estimate.。
He's a tax collector, and assumedly,。
he was made very wealthy from tax collecting.。
And it wasn't just that the people didn't like pay taxes.。
My green envelope just came in this April.。
I guess none of us gladly anticipate the green envelope。
that comes in our mailbox every year.。
And yet, we know that the tax collected。
actually goes into the public system。
for at least some sort of good.。
And so we don't have a personal kind of hatred。
on the officers and the inland revenue.。
And yet, for Zacchaeus, the people had it going against him.。
It was very personal.。
And the reason is that the tax collected。
didn't just go back into the local public systems.。
Instead, it was a tax Zacchaeus collected。
in collaboration with the Romans.。
Whatever money that was collected,。
and after meeting the Roman quota,。
Zacchaeus could pocket this money as his own.。
And he was able to do so on his own people。
because the Romans had afforded him the authority.。
So in effect, Zacchaeus betrayed his own。
with the national enemy at the time。
and made a living out of dishonest gain.。
The tax collector, the term the tax collector,。
is so detested in Jewish society that it。
is used in conjunction with another term, sinner.。
And all sorts of foul language one could think of,。
you would use it and mix it all with the term tax collector.。
And think about this.。
Out of all of them, Zacchaeus was chief.。
He was chief tax collector.。
OK, we're going to top up some more unpleasantness。
on the image of Zacchaeus.。
Verses 3 and 4 makes mention of his stature,。
that the crowd was too tall for him,。
and that Zacchaeus had to go up a tree just to be。
able to see Jesus come through.。
So Luke is not just simply passing on information。
as objective facts here, but he needs us to read the room.。
When do we ever see short people climb trees?。
Can you just detect the sour negativity here?。
It's not just facts here.。
It's not how many centimeters, but actually a short person。
climbing a tree.。
He also wasn't just short like how Pastor Tim kind of towers。
over us and how he sees all 90% Hong Kong people.。
But he is abnormally short.。
Zacchaeus was like a dwarf.。
He had a dwarfism stature, someone。
who was abnormally short.。
And the crowd is not just too tall for him physically.。
The crowd is not simply just physically towering。
over Zacchaeus and overshadowing his sight for Jesus.。
That is just the face value of the reading.。
Sure, sometimes things can just physically。
get in the way of us meeting with Jesus, missing a bus.。
That's a physical thing.。
And yet the debilitating thing here。
is that Jesus was unnecessarily kept out of reach and sight。
because of the social stigma and perception。
that the crowd had placed on Zacchaeus.。
And so we see it in verse 7 with the people's。
whinging and muttering.。
Jesus has gone to be the guest of a sinner.。
Again, in this verse, it's not an objective fact here.。
They're actually grumbling and moaning。
that somebody, a sinner, is actually。
tagging alongside a moral teacher in those days.。
So if we are honest to ourselves,。
at times we have been like the crowd, whereby。
we choose to serve our emotions on who should rightfully have。
access to God's grace and mercy, rather than playing ball。
in the spirit's leading.。
In the past years, depending on political sides,。
we have seen different people groups and nationalities。
and occupations fall from faith and grace。
because we have associated with one side of the opinion.。
We have consciously or unconsciously。
viewed these people groups and nationalities and occupations。
in a lesser light.。
And what this means is that by virtue,。
we have given up on God's very opinion about people。
and adopted, because we were serving our own emotions,。
adopted our own instead.。
We have become the very tall crowds。
that have gotten in the way of letting people see Jesus.。
Has that got anything to do with a healing perspective?。
Yep, it also applies.。
Even when Jesus is very powerful and Jesus is sovereign enough。
to decide to heal anyone at his disposal,。
we are supposed to be partners of Jesus.。
And the way that we can get in the way。
is that people don't want to seek healing。
in the first place.。
They're overshadowed by this social stigma and perception。
that they don't even want to have healing in the first place.。
And so today, if you just find two minutes。
and if you find that this really applies to you,。
maybe just spend two minutes with Jesus。
just to reclaim his opinion.。
It could just be like, Jesus, I know。
that your healing is universal and irrespective of worth.。
Sorry, I was wrong about this particular person or occupation。
or people group.。
And I wish to partner in your activity。
again of letting the person see you and your church。
in the right light.。
OK, we're going to move on.。
And we're going to do a little bit of forensics.。
We're going to do some internal investigation on Zacchaeus.。
We're going to investigate and name the deeper。
wound inside of Zacchaeus.。
What was the problem with Zacchaeus。
that had caused him to essentially turn。
against his own people?。
And as I was finding answers, I simply。
couldn't help but realize that Zacchaeus is actually。
a brother of ours.。
And so any speculation made against him, it has to be fair.。
But it also has to be for identification's sake.。
Identification is not judgment.。
Identification is saying, I can identify。
with this person.。
I can share in the feelings.。
I really understand what this person means.。
Because that's what Jesus's incarnation was about.。
Jesus came into this world, and he identified with humanity.。
He didn't judge humanity.。
God is growing a very compassionate church globally,。
but also here in Yuen Long.。
And our motives need to be holy as we probe。
into the lives of others.。
And we can start doing that in our scripture reading。
when we come across the tax collector, or Judas,。
or this person, Zacchaeus, or the Levites。
who passed about the Samaritans and just walked through.。
Actually, spend a moment just to identify with these people.。
Why are they doing these things instead。
of the normal Sunday school children's school routine?。
Oh, he was a baddie.。
He did this, and this, and that.。
I think that's going to nurture us。
into a very compassionate church that Jesus would like to see.。
Anyway, back to Zacchaeus, something is not quite right,。
not quite coherent with him internally, emotionally,。
morally, spiritually.。
And if we were using contemporary language,。
we're going to say he's a broken mess.。
How can somebody make it a living deeply hurting。
his own kind without feeling guilty?。
There are possible reasons here.。
Either Zacchaeus didn't regard his ways of tax。
collecting being wrong, which is quite doubtful because he can。
really read the sentiment in the room,。
or he wants to justify this action。
and rationalize this decision because people。
have bullied him.。
And so it was a time for him to dominate and assert power。
over those who had bullied him, or those he otherwise couldn't。
because of his short stature.。
Or possibly a third reason, and it's just indifference。
and apathy.。
Zacchaeus was so hurt that there was just。
a lack of moral concern over what he did.。
So out of all these examples, anyway,。
out of all these possibilities, we。
don't see a lot of guilt in Zacchaeus,。
but we see a lot of shame in Zacchaeus.。
Now, as Hong Kong people, we might use these words。
interchangeably and not knowing the difference.。
Pastor Tim gave some really good definitions of Brene Brown。
the other day.。
I'm not going to go and dwell on it,。
but I want to talk about the difference here.。
Different from guilt, shame actually。
focuses on the negative evaluation。
of the whole entire person rather than the single。
perceived offense that we do when we're guilty.。
And in effect, this inward turn to negative self-evaluation。
left Zacchaeus so stuck in a cycle of humiliation。
and idolatry where holding on to money and power,。
even at the expense of his own people,。
was the temporary antidote to deal。
with his ostracism and pain.。
And this is why we see people going。
to very obsessive and addictive regimes。
when they navigate around shame.。
And for Zacchaeus, his way of dealing with shame。
was to amass and accumulate wealth and power.。
Shame is so detrimental to a person's holistic health.。
It clouds out every judgment.。
The way we see ourselves, the way we see right and wrong,。
shame leads us into a life of sin, addiction,。
and unhealthy living.。
We only need to turn a few pages into the second story。
of the Bible, and we know that because of sin。
and because of rejection, Cain had turned against。
and actually killed his own brother, Abel.。
Shame leaves us so isolated from God and others,。
and it is so dangerous because we were never。
called to be on our own.。
We were called in the first place。
to be in a loving community, just like our triune God.。
So at the very beginning, I shared a little bit。
about my condition.。
And for some of you who don't know,。
or the many of you who don't know,。
I have lived with eczema for the majority of my life.。
And when we say chronic, what we mean。
is that the condition is long lasting.。
It doesn't really have a cure to.。
And for the longest time, I've prayed against it.。
I've prayed for it to go away.。
And we know with eczema, if you know about eczema,。
it doesn't really fall off.。
If you pass adolescence age and you still have eczema,。
you pretty much have eczema, and you can expect。
to have eczema forever.。
And I prayed for it to go away because it has。
all sorts of problems in me--。
the pain, the sleepless nights, the itch, very itchy skin,。
and attributing to all these problems,。
I actually also carried a lot of shame in me.。
If you think about the names and the labels。
that I had when I was in school from teasing schoolmates,。
if you think about my daily commute to work。
or to the groceries, and I was always。
hoping that I'm not getting stared at for shedding off。
my flakes.。
To the people, maybe even you guys who really love me。
and yet still fail to understand why this guy can't。
stop itching.。
And so all these kind of things and experience and events。
just spiraled off to shame, and it also。
spiraled off to a lot of unhealthy living inside of me.。
I remembered a time in my undergraduate--。
and there was one year in my undergraduate university life。
where my attendance was at a mere 4%.。
Think about it.。
I remember that year so clearly.。
Not actually sure when it was day or night。
because I had my curtains shut.。
And it didn't really matter anyway。
because I wasn't turning up to lectures.。
But this pain and this shame just。
led me into just hiding in my dormitory,。
just binging on the screen or binging on movies and games.。
And after that, I would just fall back into sleep,。
and it just rinses and repeats.。
What I didn't know, why God didn't take away。
the physical healing, although I was blaming him。
on the physical healing, I even told him,。
hey, couldn't you just give me a condition that。
isn't shown outside, in the outside?。
But what I didn't know is that God actually。
wants to do a deeper healing in me.。
And without that experience all till today,。
I wouldn't have received such deeper holistic healing.。
And I would have just sufficed on maybe a clear skin.。
And maybe internally, I would still have a very poor image。
about myself.。
So we know that shame has such a negative impact on us.。
So what are we to do?。
Wretch people that we are.。
Paul says, wretch people that we are.。
What can we do?。
Thankfully, that's the wrong question。
to be asking because it's not something that we can do.。
And it is only Jesus who could do something and save us。
from this problem.。
On our own, we can't come out of shame.。
And we see this clearly here in the slide.。
It is Jesus who initiates Zacchaeus in this story.。
It is he who came to seek and to save the lost.。
It is he who must enter our empty and lonely homes。
and to get rid of the shame off of us.。
So in the Bible, there are actually two ways。
where Jesus deals with shame.。
The first one we can see here, Jesus。
is repeatedly portrayed as somebody。
who refuses to buy into the culture of shame.。
He befriended those whose society labeled as sinners.。
He defied social customs around the notion of who's holy。
and who isn't holy.。
He pronounced God's blessing upon those。
who had been stigmatized.。
He also tells a lot of parables and stories。
about people with no social standing or religious standing。
being ushered into God's kingdom and presence.。
And this is the story that we see.。
This is one way of Jesus dealing with shame.。
Moreover, Jesus deals with our shame by carrying it.。
When Jesus faced death by crucifixion,。
by dying on the cross, he was publicly。
shamed in every possible way.。
He was stripped naked.。
He was mocked.。
He was physically abused.。
He was labeled a blasphemer and a traitor.。
He was nailed onto a cross.。
And the biblical accounts of Jesus's death。
attach great significance to the fact of this public shaming.。
Because Jesus was, in a sense, carrying this shame。
on our behalf and in our place, shared the burden of this shame.。
And in bearing this, he had robbed the power of shame.。
Such a debilitating power, he robbed it away。
through carrying it for us.。
And this is why Apostle Paul would later say, "From now on,。
and therefore, we don't see anyone。
from a human point of view.。
For in Christ, there is a new creation."。
That's a verse that we always go back to whenever。
somebody is baptized.。
And I was just wondering, are we seeing ourselves。
in a human point of view here?。
Brothers and sisters, are you seeing each other?。
This is the best place to learn about this.。
Are we seeing ourselves in a person point of view,。
in a flesh point of view?。
Or in Christ, a new creation point of view?。
Husbands and wives, are you doing the same in your houses?。
Are you looking at each other as new creations?。
So when sin and shame and all sorts of deep wounds abound,。
we can know that God's grace abounds even more.。
I'm borrowing Paul's language here.。
Experiencing such profound acceptance and healing。
from Jesus, there's only one appropriate response.。
And the response is one of repentance.。
We might like to think of repentance。
as somebody goes off their very high horse,。
saying sorry for what they've done,。
an offense that they have created or made.。
But that's only repentance in part.。
Repentance, if we go back to the original language,。
means turning towards God, a turn towards God,。
and also another turn, a turning away from wrongdoing.。
And Psaki has fully embodied repentance。
because firstly, he turned to Jesus.。
Look, Jesus.。
He said that.。
But he also turns into his actions later on.。
So essentially, he's saying, look, Jesus,。
I've put a lot of emphasis in finding security and comfort。
in holding and amassing this money and power.。
And that is idolatry.。
I should be seeking that comfort and healing and security in you.。
And yet, I've looked on it.。
I try to look for it in money and power.。
And so letting go of these idols,。
it also means that he is seeing Jesus in a new light。
with worship and with praise.。
The turning in repentance also means turning away。
from wrongdoing, as I said.。
And as I said, with shame, there's。
not much we could do in our own selves, this negative feeling.。
But if we have guilt instead, there's。
something that we can do.。
As long as we are turning Godward,。
there is a positive effect, feeling guilty sometimes.。
And it is for our repentance.。
The feeling of guilt, if we are turned Godward,。
it can potentially lead us to wanting。
to make up for the offense.。
And for Zacchaeus, to make up, it。
means to make up the broken relationships that he。
has with his own countrymen.。
Regardless of what is perceived of him, what。
was said and done to him, Zacchaeus。
initiates and he lets go of escalating this old offense。
with a 180 degree turn.。
He turns money extorting into charity giving.。
And such radical liberation is found。
in a man who is met by the love of Jesus。
and healed from of his inner wounds.。
In the end, Jesus leaves no room for doubt.。
There was no second guessing on where Zacchaeus now。
fares in Jesus' eyes, in God's eyes.。
If Zacchaeus was still unsure the moment Jesus locked eyes。
with him, called him down the tree, called his name,。
and without any upfront judgment to say that he。
has to go to his house, by verse 9,。
Zacchaeus could put this to bed.。
He can put this doubt to bed.。
Jesus really loves him.。
And if we were to paraphrase verse 9,。
I would paraphrase it this way, that Jesus just。
assured Zacchaeus that he is one who belongs to him.。
So I wonder whether we can leave today's message knowing。
that God also has assurance for us.。
No matter how we deem and evaluate our own selves,。
no matter what we think of in terms of our distance from God,。
or no matter what we've done, actually, last year, last month,。
or last week, regardless of all this,。
we can know that Jesus is very close to us.。
Or in a healing perspective, regardless。
of whether we are cured, regardless of whether we're。
waiting on healing, regardless of whether healing has not。
come yet, or for those who have given up on healing altogether,。
Jesus gives his assurance today that he is very close to us.。
And that is his estimation.。
And we better ought to start applying that estimation。
on ourselves as well.。
God brings his final verdict.。
And it's not because of what we have done,。
but because of what Jesus had accomplished。
in his humanity and divinity.。
Can I welcome the band up again?。
I just want to do a bit of ministry time.。
So as you guys get ready, can we all。
stand as we go into a time of ministry?。
So with the message that we just preached,。
I'm mindful that there are a few ways that we can actually。
go about this.。
Maybe there are friends here who are yet to be Christians.。
Jesus wants us to know that he is very close to us.。
And despite our brokenness, he insists。
on knocking on that heart door and hoping。
to come into your homes, your heart homes.。
And so like Zacchaeus' story, I wonder。
whether we could, in repentance, start a relationship with him。
today.。
It could just be, sorry, God, for the things。
that I've done up to this point, the sins that I've committed.。
Thank you for loving me in such a way so that I am one of yours.。
I am a child of God.。
And then for those of us who are in Christ,。
we can also have a moment welcoming Jesus。
through our repentance.。
First, we are going to turn to God.。
And then we're going to talk about some of the wrongdoings。
that we might have committed.。
Notice that repentance isn't just the moment。
that we get saved, the sinner prayer,。
but repentance is this every frequent now and again thing。
that we do every so often for discipleship, for healing.。
We know that God has a very longstanding care and affection。
for us.。
And we can trust that actually in the repentance,。
there's also healing that is coming through.。
When we lock eyes with Jesus and we hold on to that loving gaze,。
we know that we are far from his standards.。
And there is some shame and there are some guilts。
that he wants us to address.。
So firstly, it's the shame.。
God, I'm just so sorry for not seeing myself。
in the way in the estimation that you see me.。
Notice that I can't take this away.。
Notice shame.。
It's just so detrimental to me and that you。
need to take it away.。
Lord, would you let me see the new creation in me?。
And now God wants to address our guilt as well.。
Jesus, I'm so sorry for the things that I've done。
and also the things that I've not done,。
which I know that I shouldn't be doing or I should be doing.。
And the gift that you've given us。
allows us to know right and wrong.。
Lord, I want to hold on to that, hone in, and really use it。
as my compass again.。
Lord, I obviously, through these offenses and these wrongdoings,。
I've also mucked up in some relationships.。
And I need you to heal me.。
And I need you to lead in these relationships.。
And I need you, Holy Spirit, to give me a new revelation。
how to lead me in these new relationships.。
So we're going to pray.。
And we're going to talk about these three things, OK?。
Everybody, let's join.。
Let's not just leave it to non-Christians。
to do this welcoming Jesus in our life prayer.。
So if you repeat after me, Heavenly Father,。
thank you for loving us.。
Thank you that you have met with me today again.。
And I know that you're knocking on my door.。
So I just wish to fall into your lap.。
I want to start a relationship with you.。
I also want to confess my sins.。
Notice I've done something that I'm not proud of.。
But in your loving and forgiving,。
I know that I am a child of God.。
And so I want to thank you for letting。
me become your own children.。
OK.。
And if we follow after me again to address those categories。
again, the shame and the guilt. Father,。
I have such a poor image of my own self.。
If you do.。
Lord, I try to use other ways to navigate around this.。
But it's always temporary.。
And so Lord, would you remind me of how you take away our shame?。
So that I can see myself in a new light.。
Thank you for dying on the cross for me, bearing my shame.。
And it is no longer for me to carry.。
Father, I'm also guilty.。
I've hurted others.。
I've done something wrong.。
Lord, thank you for the fact that I know that I've。
done something wrong here.。
The fact that I know that I've done something wrong.。
Lord, I want to turn to you and turn away。
from these wrongdoings.。
Install a new law in me so that I don't need。
to do these things anymore.。
And Lord, if there is anything that I've mucked up,。
Lord, would you restore them?。
Especially relationships, because they。
matter to you the most.。
Would you lead me in these relationships。
as we see healing come through?。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
Amen.。
(water splashing)。
