Jesus, we thank you for Tim, Lord.。
We thank you that you are speaking to him。
and you are also speaking through him, Jesus.。
Lord, we thank you for the scripture。
that you have breathed into words, Lord,。
that's words that Tim can just take upon himself。
and that you are strengthening him to speak。
those same words out towards us, Jesus.。
So Lord, we pray that your words may just。
fill his mouth today and so that they may。
fill our spirits, Jesus.。
Lord, I pray that just whatever he has prepared today, Lord,。
they will just ring true in our hearts, Jesus.。
That it is by your grace and by your name。
that these things can come true into our lives, Jesus, Lord.。
So we thank you for Tim, we bless him out of this message.。
Praise in your name, Jesus.。
Amen. - Amen, amen.。
Thank you, Benedict.。
Hey, today is Benedict's first time service leading,。
so let's give him a big hand.。
(audience applauding)。
Well done, thank you so much.。
My first year in university,。
I was really struggling academically.。
I had just spent one year in the US。
and my English was not that good.。
And the requirements between high school。
and university quite differently.。
So there really was this, I was stretched。
to the limits of my ability.。
And there was this one moment that I remember,。
it's an iconic moment for me.。
I was in one of the study rooms by myself,。
reading my pre-med biology book,。
and there was a page where I didn't know 50 words。
on one page.。
And that was a time when you use a physical dictionary。
to look up words.。
So I started looking up words,。
and I mean, it just takes forever.。
You even have to find the right word,。
it's different than it is today.。
And I was so discouraged.。
I was like, how in the world am I supposed to。
even graduate from university?。
How is this even supposed to work?。
Now, that was not the only area where I was discouraged.。
The other one was, it seemed like every class。
had like multiple papers due.。
10 page papers, you know, write two of those.。
And since English already was not that easy for me,。
now I suddenly had to process everything in English,。
write everything in English.。
And I really needed help.。
I needed help.。
And there was a guy on my freshman,。
back then we call it dorm,。
nowadays we call it residence hall,。
in my freshman dorm, his name was Ryan.。
And he was so gracious to me.。
Like, he helped me read through my papers,。
he gave me feedback on how I can improve them,。
he helped even edit things,。
and it really made a huge difference for me.。
'Cause I really was at the limits。
of what I was able to do at the time.。
Now fast forward, probably like 10 years。
or something like that, I was a pastor,。
I'm actually serving already at this time in Hong Kong。
at a different church.。
And I just had this moment where I just realized。
this grace and mercy that God just has poured over my life.。
Where he's placed people in my life。
that helped me along the way,。
in significant ways, like my friend Ryan,。
but also in other ways, and have just supported me,。
and allowed me to flourish,。
and even be at the point where I was at that time.。
And I was just overcome with gratitude,。
with just God's goodness.。
Wow, God, you're so good to me.。
You have shown me so much love,。
so much care, so much kindness through all these people.。
And I don't know if you ever have that experience。
where you're just so moved and touched by God,。
just for his goodness in your life.。
And as I was sort of just sitting in that moment,。
suddenly there was the Holy Spirit's nudging.。
Tim, it's time.。
It's time for you to turn around and help others.。
I've given you so much help,。
and now it's time for you to go and help those around you.。
Now, it wasn't that I wasn't doing anything.。
I mean, I was a pastor, I was involved in things.。
There was certain ways where I was helping people in need.。
But there was a gap between what I believed。
and what I actually did,。
between my faith and between my actions.。
And the Holy Spirit was nudging me,。
let's close that gap.。
Let's live more consistently with what you believe。
and what you're doing.。
And so I believe for everyone,。
every Christian, every Jesus follower,。
there is this tension.。
There's things we know about Jesus,。
we know about loving our neighbor,。
we know about God's mercy, we know about justice,。
but then there's the part of actually doing it.。
And so we're all on this journey of closing this gap,。
and we're at different points, and that's okay.。
You know, some of us, maybe we haven't thought much。
about it, others of us, maybe you've already narrowed。
that gap in incredible ways,。
and that's beautiful and wonderful.。
But what I wanna do today with you in this message,。
I wanna explore with you this question.。
How can I start narrowing the gap between what I believe。
about justice and mercy,。
and putting my faith more consistently into action?。
You know, how do I do this?。
And how can we take next steps on the journey?。
And so today we're continuing our God of Justice。
sermon series, we're in the fourth week.。
At the beginning of the sermon series,。
we looked at the redemptive grand narrative of Scripture.。
And I wanna take you to an image that I showed back then.。
You're welcome also to go back online and watch the sermon.。
So can we go to the image, please?。
Thank you.。
So we, I'll start over here.。
So we talked about that God created us for good.。
And there's this overarching story in the Bible。
that makes sense out of all the books,。
all the different individual authors,。
and it's one large story, and it's that redemptive story.。
And God created us for good.。
And there's four relational contexts。
that he created to flourish.。
You know, our relationship with God,。
our relationship with ourselves,。
our relationship with others, and our relationship。
with God, and our relationship with God.。
And our relationship with creation.。
And as God created us, all of that was flourishing。
and thriving, and it was good.。
It was really good.。
But then something happened, right?。
We talked about Adam and Eve and how sin broke。
into the world, and that we were damaged by evil.。
You know, that sin corrupted everything。
and impacted every aspect of our lives,。
and that's symbolized by these like lightning rods。
or squiggly lines.。
And you see there's like breakdown in our relationship。
between us and God.。
There's breakdown in our relationship even with ourselves.。
There's breakdown in our relationship with others,。
and there's breakdown in our relationship with creation。
and how we steward and relate to creation.。
Then we looked at Israel and God's story。
that he did not give up.。
He did not give up on his creation.。
He did not give up on his people.。
And there's just this very long story of God not giving up,。
of God calling Abraham, setting apart Israel,。
calling them to be righteous and holy and just,。
and they go through these cycles of like being righteous,。
holy, and just, and then suddenly being unjust,。
and God confronts them.。
But whatever was going on, that that cycle just continued.。
Then we talked about that Jesus came,。
that he restored us for life,。
that he entered into this broken world.。
That's why the cross goes on the inside of this world.。
He came into this world to break the power of sin,。
to make the unrighteous righteous in him。
through his forgiveness and give us new life.。
But we also said that we don't just wanna remain。
that our relationship with God is restored,。
but that God actually has a mission for us。
and that he has sent us together to heal.。
You know, we're sent out now to go and do his,。
be participate in his redeeming, his healing,。
his renewing work in these four areas。
where God uses us to bring wholeness,。
to have his will done, to connect people with God,。
to restore relationships, to restore relationships。
between people with themselves, with others,。
and even with creation.。
And so that's what we've been looking at.。
And so what we're focusing on today is this part。
about our relationship between us and others。
and how God is calling us to bring,。
be part of his renewing and restoring work。
that has to do with addressing physical, emotional,。
spiritual, relational needs,。
and just being available to God to make them thrive.。
And so we wanna look on that interpersonal level.。
And so we're today in the book of James.。
Now, the book of James,。
James was Jesus's half brother.。
He was a key leader in the early church.。
He was a key leader in the church in Jerusalem.。
And he wrote a letter to the Christians spread out。
across the Mediterranean area.。
And the letter focused on living a life of authentic faith.。
He wanted Jesus's followers to live lives of authentic faith.。
And so in the first chapter,。
he talks about that we should not just be hearers。
of God's word, but we should be doers.。
So we're meant to hear God's word,。
but we're also meant to put it into action.。
And so we really emphasize that.。
And then a lot of this authentic faith that he talks about,。
it was about how we relate, especially to those in need.。
You know, how we express it,。
that we don't discriminate,。
that we care for the widows, the orphans,。
those who are living in crisis.。
And that when we do that, you know, we bring honor to God.。
We live out of that image of God that he has given us.。
And we live out of that, that righteousness,。
that holiness, that love to those around us.。
And so that's where we're gonna pick up the story in James,。
or in James chapter two.。
And it says this, verse 14.。
What good is it, my brothers and sisters,。
if someone claims they have faith, but has no deeds?。
Can such faith save them?。
Suppose a brother or sister is without clothes and daily food.。
If one of you says to him, go in peace,。
keep warm and well fed,。
but does nothing about their physical needs.。
What good is it?。
In the same way, faith by itself,。
if it is not accompanied by actions, is dead.。
So James here, part of the scenario。
is he's addressing Christians who somebody has argued。
that you can separate faith and works,。
that you can just have faith.。
You can just have this mental ascent.。
You know, I believe in Jesus.。
I have a relationship with him and that's it.。
Nothing else is needed.。
And James is saying, uh-uh, that doesn't make any sense.。
That's not how it works.。
Faith and actions always belong together.。
You cannot separate them.。
And so he raises that question.。
He says, how can someone claim to have faith,。
but have no deeds?。
Because we see faith when there's deeds, right?。
We see that then expressed.。
And what is the usefulness of that kind of faith?。
If you say you have faith, but it never expresses itself。
in any practical way or form towards other people.。
And he even raises the question,。
does that person have an authentic, a saving faith?。
If you claim to have faith, but there is no actions。
of loving and caring for people around us.。
Because if the spirit of God is living in you,。
surely he will move you, mobilize you to start loving。
and caring for the people around you.。
Then he asks us to imagine the scenario.。
So I wanna dive a little bit in with you on that.。
He says in verse 15, suppose a brother or a sister。
is without clothes and daily food.。
Everyone picturing that?。
If one of you says to them, go in peace。
and keep warm and well fed, but does nothing。
about their physical need, what good is it?。
Now, it'll be easy to rush past this part.。
I used to rush past this part when I read James.。
But just think of this, the person is described as naked.。
That means they have no clothes.。
They lack one of the most basic necessities。
to protect themselves from cold weather,。
warm weather, rainy weather, from parasites,。
from other dangers.。
I mean, they're extremely vulnerable.。
And then they're also described。
that they're lacking daily food.。
So that means they're not just like one time。
not having enough to eat for one meal.。
It's like a regular thing.。
They're just, they don't have what it takes to live,。
to have the nutrients to flourish and thrive.。
And then we're supposed to imagine。
that somebody says to them,。
like, go in peace, keep warm and well fed,。
and then just walks away.。
Isn't that ridiculous?。
Doesn't that make you upset?。
I feel like there's no reaction.。
Yes?。
Right, it's stupid, right?。
Come on.。
And so that's exactly James' point.。
He's like, it is ridiculous that somebody。
has such desperate needs to ignore them。
and to just blabber spiritually.。
You know, just to say these spiritual words and phrases,。
but do nothing about the personal need.。
And so James is saying,。
faith and actions, they belong together.。
We cannot separate them.。
And so in verse 70, he says this,。
"In the same way, faith by itself,。
"if it is not accompanied by action,。
"is that authentic faith is always expressed in actions."。
It always is.。
Authentic faith is always expressed in actions.。
So this reminds me of social media,。
hashtag thoughts and prayers.。
Anyone?。
Anyone else?。
Okay, let me explain.。
So, you know, one of the things,。
whenever there's a world crisis,。
let's say there is a, we just had,。
I don't know, was it Helen, Helene,。
the natural disaster in the US,。
or war, or school shooting,。
or whatever else it may be, right?。
And then people, they send their thoughts and prayers。
on social media, hashtag thoughts and prayers.。
And recently, there's been, like the last several years,。
there's been a lot of pushback on that.。
Like, hey, you say thoughts and prayers,。
but you never do anything about what's happening.。
Especially like, if it's a politician,。
you know, he says thoughts and prayers,。
but they actually have power to do something about policies.。
So people have been getting really fed up。
with sending thoughts and prayers.。
And from, if you look at James's example,。
we can understand why,。
because if people say spiritual stuff,。
but there's never any action,。
people are asking, what good is it?。
If you see, go in peace, stay, you know,。
well fed and warm.。
But I've seen also that,。
so I wanna talk about it a little bit.。
Let me go back on that.。
Now thoughts and prayers in some circumstances,。
I think it's an okay response, right?。
Like something's geographically far removed.。
We're not right there.。
We think about the people, we pray for them.。
We trust that God works through prayers.。
You know, that is not a bad thing necessarily.。
Or there might be very complex issues。
where there is no easy, simple, straightforward response.。
In James, the response is clear.。
There's a person that's naked。
and a person that's malnourished.。
So you know what to do.。
But sometimes we don't always right away know what to do.。
Maybe it takes some time to figure out what to do.。
And so thoughts and prayers。
and in those circumstances can be okay.。
And the reason why I say this is,。
as a pastor, I've seen that people have picked up。
on this criticism of thoughts and prayers.。
And I think we should take this serious。
because we should not just be people。
who say thoughts and prayers and that's it.。
But at the same time, what I've seen even Christians do,。
throw out the faith part and just focus on actions.。
And they're actually meant both to stay together.。
You know, that we do pray, but that we also do act.。
And so one thing that I wanna say is that。
we should never use the complexities of an issue。
where maybe it takes us a while to respond。
as an excuse for never doing anything.。
And I think we have a tendency to do that as a church.。
And so putting all of this in context。
and our God of just sermons here。
is I wrote this statement, it says this.。
Jesus did not restore us for life。
so that we only offer thoughts and prayers to people.。
But he has restored us for life。
so that we contribute practically to the physical,。
relational, emotional, and spiritual needs of people.。
That we do both, that we pray and that we act.。
Can I get an amen?。
- Amen. - Thank you.。
All right, just making sure we're engaged here.。
Now in 2007, my father, he passed away of cancer.。
And something that I just found out not too long ago,。
I think last year about him,。
was that he supported a mom, a single mom with a daughter。
together with one or two friends for 18 years.。
Gave substantially financially to this family。
to make sure the daughters cared for the schooling,。
the clothing, and all these things.。
He never talked about it.。
And I found this out about my father.。
And I was like, wow, that's so beautiful thing。
to learn about your dad that you didn't even know it.。
You know, he never said anything.。
And for me, that was the way that he was able to help.。
He worked a lot, he had finances,。
so he could help financially someone.。
But there's different ways that we can help and love。
and bring up people who are in need of help。
and support around us.。
And by the way, everybody here。
has something they can contribute,。
has a gift, a talent, has time that you can use。
to bring up people around you who are in need.。
So whether that is your practical skills,。
maybe you're good at fixing something,。
or maybe you help somebody fix their washer.。
If that's good with sewing,。
well, maybe you help somebody sew things。
so they don't have to buy those things.。
If you're good at listening,。
maybe just spend time with people。
and just listen to them and care for them.。
If that's inviting people into your family。
to be part of your family,。
that's also a way of just loving and bringing up people,。
because not everybody has a normal family experience.。
As I was praying for the service,。
I really had the sense that actually this was a word。
or encouragement for somebody.。
That it was somebody who was thinking about。
hosting and just welcoming people in their family,。
and I felt like I should encourage that.。
So here's an encouragement for whoever this may be.。
Now, the important thing is that we do put our faith。
in action, and that our faith does not just consist。
of words, of empty words, right?。
And that we can reflect this character, this image,。
being image bearers of God,。
that we can reflect it in our relationships with others,。
and just bring them up, share the love of Jesus,。
share the concern of Jesus, be kind,。
lift people up around us who are struggling。
so that they can thrive, that they can flourish.。
So I have this statement that I think sums up。
what James is saying here.。
It says this, "Real faith is seen through our actions。
"when we lift up those in need."。
No, real faith is seen through our actions。
when we lift up those in need.。
So I think this raises for all of us the question,。
do we have real faith?。
Are we lifting up people around us who are in need?。
And if we're not, I think we need to start praying。
and thinking about this.。
And it doesn't matter if you're rich or poor,。
if you're a man or a woman,。
if you feel like you have lots of talents,。
little talents, everyone has something to offer,。
something can contribute.。
If you make yourself available to God,。
everybody has something to offer to bring others up.。
Every single person.。
Now, I'm excited.。
I've invited two people, Debra and Pradeep,。
to share with us about their journey。
of putting their faith into action.。
And so let's, as they come up here,。
let's welcome them, I'm excited.。
(audience applauding)。
Thank you.。
(audience applauding)。
I have my cue cards here.。
I'm prepared.。
All right.。
So to begin with, can Debra also have a microphone?。
Thank you.。
So to begin with, I would just love to hear,。
not everybody here knows you,。
I would just love to hear maybe a little bit about you,。
who you are, how long you've been in Hong Kong,。
what you're doing here,。
and maybe perhaps we can actually start with Debra。
and then have Pradeep share after that.。
I'm born and raised in Hong Kong,。
and I live in America for 10 years。
before I returned to Hong Kong as a missionary。
about 23 years ago.。
I joined the Yuen Long last year in April.。
How about you?。
Okay, my name is Pradeep and I'm from South India.。
My wife Cynthia and I,。
we are living in Hong Kong for past two years,。
working as cross-cultural missionaries in Shanti,。
an NGO, and then we are part of Y Nuen Long。
from the time the church was launched.。
Wonderful.。
I love both of them, they're amazing.。
So I'm super excited about this time here.。
(audience applauding)。
So one thing that I was thinking about,。
you know, how do you get started on this justice journey?。
How do you, like, was there something。
that like sparked you on this journey?。
And so we'd just love to hear about that.。
Yeah, sure, I believe the journey started。
during the time when I was in America,。
about 30 years ago.。
I became foster parent to take care of children。
who needs a home.。
And at that time I was doing that。
because of money,。
because I was a stay-at-home mom。
and taking care of my children,。
so I want to bring some income home.。
And so I started this journey,。
but when I started this journey。
and God let me see something different。
when I'm doing the foster care.。
And also the church in America。
always taught us to open our house,。
our home for other people in need.。
And our church always have a big meeting。
and those attend the church.。
And so there's people that will attend the meeting。
and they came from different places in the country.。
And so we will open our home to let them stay with us。
and also cook them meal while they're staying.。
Cool, so that's your origin story of fostering。
and also welcoming people from, you know,。
these conferences in your home.。
And yeah, how about you Pradeep?。
So growing up in India,。
somehow I developed this idea that Indians,。
that means we share gospel,。
we share Jesus through words.。
And missionaries from West,。
they share Jesus through actions and serving people。
like building hospitals, building orphanages。
and schools kind of stuff,。
because I believe they have a lot of money。
and we don't have money.。
So all that we can do is like,。
we just share gospel through our words.。
But my perspective changed when my parents,。
my dad and my mom, they're pastors,。
when they started a home for the orphans。
and they gave shelter to eight boys for a long time.。
So I see my mom,。
she cooked three meals every day for a long time。
and I never see her complaining or grumbling a single time.。
And my dad, he provided for all of us,。
the eight boys and three of us, the same things.。
So there was no partiality between us.。
And I always see my parents,。
my mom was always joyful after working the whole day.。
And my dad was so peaceful after providing for so many of us。
with the limited resources.。
So that helped me to understand like,。
serving others does not need a surplus amount of resources.。
All that it needs is a heart。
that's full of compassion and sacrifice.。
Yeah, and we also started--。
(audience applauding)。
And as kids, three of us, me and my two siblings,。
we started sharing the things we have.。
And I believe like that's how my journey。
of putting faith in action started.。
- So it starts a lot of times,。
even with the little that we have。
and making it available to people。
and experiencing how God works through that.。
Yeah, wonderful.。
I'm curious, so we're talking about putting faith in action。
and James, there's an emphasis particularly。
on the marginalized and the vulnerable.。
And so I wonder, what does that look like for you now。
to put your faith and action。
towards the marginalized and vulnerable。
and those in distress?。
So maybe Deborah.。
- Yes, when I returned to Hong Kong as a missionary,。
at one point by faith,。
God gave me a ministry to open my home。
to house some people that they are in need.。
So I started to let people to stay with me.。
Some drug addicts who want to get off drug,。
some came out from prison.。
And there are some children who were in trouble.。
And then also about 15 years ago,。
I also let, I invited a mother who came from Mother's Choice。
with her newborn baby to stay with us.。
So 15 years had gone and the girls grow up。
and became part of my family, yes.。
- Wow, amazing.。
(audience applauding)。
- And now at this stage of my life,。
I'm a volunteer in this church。
and also I'm a tutor, volunteer。
to teach non-Chinese children homework.。
- Well, Deborah, yes.。
(audience applauding)。
You know, you're so courageous.。
And so yeah, what an inspiring example。
for just how you welcome people in your home.。
How about you, Pradeep?。
- So I would say understanding。
that I need to put my faith in actions.。
It changed the course of my life。
and I got clarity in finding my purpose。
and it opened doors for me to come Hong Kong。
and serve in Shanti where our main focus。
is working with ethnic minorities,。
especially the children and youth。
who I think they are more vulnerable in the society.。
So Shanti has given me a few opportunities。
where I can serve them in different ways.。
And the first thing is like we know their need,。
know what they need and then like try to help them。
in any way you can.。
And first thing is like we empower them。
in education through tutorials。
so they understand Chinese and math better。
and they get confident in their academics。
and also in their life.。
So we do not judge them when they come to us。
so they feel they are accepted.。
We listen to them so they feel they are valued。
and we pray for them so that they understand。
that Jesus loves them and God has a plan。
and purpose in their lives.。
And the last thing is whatever we are able to provide,。
we will provide the basic needs。
so that they feel that God cares for them。
and God provides for them.。
- Wonderful.。
(audience applauds)。
Thank you.。
Yeah, I'm, you know, even just like I shared earlier。
with the tutoring, right, like I can even relate to that。
because I really have myself received that type of help.。
So it's amazing, makes such a difference.。
I wonder this journey of like putting faith in action,。
it's not always easy.。
There is challenges along the way。
and I just would love if you can share a little bit。
about some challenges or oppositions。
and how you dealt with them.。
- Well, I have learned so many things in this journey。
which transformed my life.。
Yes, I've been hurt many, many times。
and many, many tears too.。
And due to a lot of frustration and discouragement,。
I sometimes would doubt about God.。
And I pray for these people to change and get out of trouble。
but they didn't change.。
And many times they lied to me, they stole from me。
and they die of overdose of drug and they commit suicide.。
And many didn't even say a word of thank you。
and just accusing me of not doing good enough.。
And so, well, how to deal with it?。
I just always cry out to God.。
And also I ask God to help and be merciful to me。
and to others.。
- Wow, thank you for sharing that.。
How about you, Pradeep?。
- So I would say the expectations.。
So after pouring out all the love。
and pouring out all the service in their lives,。
sometimes you may not really see。
the expected result in their life.。
So after working for a long time,。
maybe there is no visible change in their life。
or their situation.。
And sometimes their life or character,。
their situation gets worse after a course of time.。
So when we don't say anything, we feel discouraged。
that after pouring out everything,。
the result is not as we wanted.。
So that's one thing, we get discouraged.。
And the second thing is after giving and giving。
and serving and serving, sometimes we feel like we are empty.。
So I would say that's the time where we have people。
who are godly people who surround us,。
who stands with us to pray and support us in every way.。
So when we have godly people with us, it really encourages.。
So they feel us and then we get more strength and courage。
to go and serve people again.。
- You know, following Jesus,。
Bible doesn't say that it's easy being a disciple.。
And so there are tough parts when we live for his glory。
and just love and serve people unconditionally.。
And so we wanted to keep this conversation authentic。
but also hear about how you deal with those challenges。
along the way.。
So thanks both of you so much for sharing those.。
It's okay, you can clap.。
(audience applauding)。
There's so much love coming your way.。
It's like you say a few words and everybody。
is just so supportive of you guys.。
What encouragement actually do you have for everyone here。
about putting their faith and action and loving our neighbors。
and bringing people up?。
- Well, I believe all of us have the love and compassion。
from God, but due to different reasons and hurt in our life,。
we don't use them, we don't develop it。
and we don't function properly.。
And God called different people to do different things。
in different situations and so we don't need to compare.。
And we do whatever and whenever we can.。
And if you don't know what, then I'm sure if you ask God,。
God will show you and tell you what.。
And start from our home with small task is important.。
And knowing that God is always so merciful to us。
and help us and we need to learn to offer unconditionally。
and being generous to others with a pure heart。
and that is important.。
A lot of times we may have expectations.。
We want to, we expect something to happen,。
we expect a very good result.。
But a lot of times expectations may lead to disappointment.。
And so we have to understand that transformation。
of people's life, appreciation and reward。
have to come from our almighty God.。
And so finally, let us not become wary in doing good.。
For the proper time, we will reap a harvest。
if we do not give up.。
So no matter the task is great or small, known or unknown,。
please don't give up and keep focusing on God。
and keep trying to use the God-given compassion。
to help our neighbors.。
- Thank you Debra.。
Yeah, how about you Pradeep?。
(audience applauding)。
- So I have, I feel like God has taught me a few things。
in this journey of missions。
and I just want to share a few of them with you.。
And the first thing is, it's not about how much you have,。
it's all about what you have。
and how you use it in serving others.。
The second thing is like,。
it's not about what your neighbor is worth of,。
it's all about like what we have received from Jesus.。
The grace, the love that we have freely received,。
that we freely give to them.。
And the next one is like, if we are available to God。
and if we are sensitive to our neighbors,。
God will show us the opportunities,。
how we can serve our neighbors through actions.。
And the last thing is like,。
no matter if you are sowing seeds or if you are planting,。
but remember that God is the one who gives growth。
and your reward will be with the Lord。
when he comes back a second time.。
- Amen.。
Let's give them a big hand.。
Thank you so much.。
(audience applauding)。
I'm just amazed.。
I was so encouraged when I read,。
so I gave them a questions and they wrote out some things。
and just hearing right now what they're sharing。
and just their faithfulness in loving those around them。
and bring them up, it's amazing.。
And I know I'm encouraged and inspired,。
I hope you are as well and you found this helpful。
of what putting our faith and action can look like.。
For me, one thing that was on my heart for today。
was like in a justice sermon series,。
it's really easy to talk so abstract,。
that we maybe never personally connect。
to what we talk about.。
But God wants to involve every one of us.。
He has sent us out to heal。
and he wants to use you to bring up other people,。
to share God's love with other people,。
to allow them to flourish and thrive.。
And as we heard, he's given every one of those things。
and we can be generous with whatever it is that we have,。
our time, our resources, our gifts, our talents.。
And if we make ourselves available to God,。
then he will use us.。
And so I opened up with a question,。
I wanna invite the worship team to come up by the way.。
I opened up with a question,。
how can we narrow this gap between our faith。
and what we believe about justice and mercy。
and putting that into action?。
You know, what does that look like?。
And we're all at different points on this journey.。
You know, every single one of us are at different points.。
And that's okay.。
But my sense for today was that just like。
as I was just moved by the mercy and the love。
and the kindness of God on that day,。
when I was thinking about how all these people。
that helped me in my life,。
that God just reveals his goodness, his love,。
his mercy to you.。
And that as he does that, that he also nudges you,。
that the Holy Spirit nudges you and says, it's time.。
It's time to put your faith into action.。
It's time to take that next step.。
It's time to make yourself available to the King of Kings。
for the incredible work that he wants to do。
through your life.。
Come on, people.。
I'm excited about that.。
And so what I wanna do is I wanna actually create a space。
for us to pray.。
And I brought up some practical ways。
that we can think about people around us.。
There's four, actually there's multiple questions.。
Can we please bring those up, please?。
There is, how is my neighbor doing relationally?。
How's my neighbor doing physically?。
How's my neighbor doing mentally?。
How's my neighbor doing spiritually?。
And all of this, of course,。
assumes that we actually talk to people。
and that we get to know these things about their lives.。
But as we pray, as Pradeep shared,。
as we just ask God and Deborah as well,。
he will show you how he can love。
and bring up people around you.。
And you're gonna be able to do it。
'cause it's God speaking to you.。
He has gifted you.。
He has put his spirit inside of you.。
And so I wanna just ask us right now just to pray。
and just ask the Holy Spirit,。
Holy Spirit, how do you want me to love。
and serve those around me?。
So let's do that for a minute and then I'll pray over us.。
Let's pray right now.。
(gentle music)。
(people chattering)。
(gentle music)。
(people chattering)。
Holy Spirit, come.。
Holy Spirit, come.。
I wanna invite everyone to stand.。
(gentle music)。
You know, we don't love our neighbor。
out of our own strength.。
We love because he first loved us.。
And some of us, you know, we're tired, we're exhausted.。
Right now we're like,。
this guy's just talking about me doing stuff.。
But the Holy Spirit can fill us。
and can give us the strength and the grace to do his work.。
We don't do it out of our own strength.。
We do it by the power of the Holy Spirit.。
So I wanna invite you,。
if you wanna be filled by the Spirit,。
just stretch out your hands.。
Just say, Lord, I'm here.。
I wanna be filled by your Spirit.。
I wanna receive from you right now。
so that I can pour it into others.。
So stretch out your hands before,。
you know, I just wanna pray over us.。
Holy Spirit, will you fill your people?。
Will you pour your mercy, your grace, your strength,。
your love into the people's hearts?。
We love others not by our own strength,。
but because of your strength,。
because of you at work in us,。
because of your love, because of your power,。
because of your grace, because of your mercy.。
So will you fill your people right now?。
Thank you, Holy Spirit.。
Renew your people, strengthen your people.。
Recharge your people now.。
Release faith that you can use us.。
Lead us into opportunities, divine appointments,。
where we're the ones who can help.。
We're the ones who can pour out your love.。
May you be honored and glorified.。
I pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen, amen.。
Let's worship church.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
