to be a community that stands in love on behalf of Branches of Hope.。
We thank you for this in Jesus' name. Amen.。
Amen. Amen. Thank you.。
As I was listening to that testimony, I was like,。
"Wow, he's just preached my whole word. We can go home."。
No, we won't.。
It's such a privilege and an honor to have been on the board of directors。
for Branches of Hope for the last three and a half years.。
And today, being given the privilege to talk about something I'm passionate about,。
the work we do at Branches of Hope,。
and something I'm really passionate about, the work of compassion.。
Such a privilege.。
My husband is here at the 11.。
And his name is KK. I think Andrew spoke about it.。
So if you hear him screaming, "Amen," he's just here to encourage me. Amen.。
So, yeah, I need all that encouragement.。
Thank you, everyone.。
So we're going to read from Matthew 22, 37 to 40.。
So turn with me to Matthew 22, 37 to 40.。
And Jesus replied, "You must love the Lord your God with all your heart,。
all your soul, and all your mind.。
This is the first and greatest commandment.。
A second is equally important.。
Love your neighbor as yourself."。
So if you look at your neighbor, you're meant to love them,。
even if they're not your spouse.。
So love your neighbor as you love yourself.。
The entire law and all the demands of the prophets are based on these two commandments.。
That means this is a very important piece of Scripture that we're looking at today.。
Today is Branches of Hope Sunday,。
and it's no surprise that we're going to be speaking about love.。
Because like mentioned before in the testimony,。
the people we are serving in Branches of Hope。
have experienced the very opposite of what we're talking about, this love.。
They have experienced a brutality, most of them, that we can't even think or imagine.。
What is worse is that they are far away from the loving families。
that could be helping them heal from the traumas that they've experienced.。
But I believe this community, you and I, God has placed us in this community。
to be that love, to be that church of hope that wraps its arms around those who are in need.。
This reminds me of a dream I had a few weeks ago.。
And in this dream, I was shown a Scripture, but without the words.。
So I knew this was a Scripture, and I sensed God was saying in the Scripture,。
"The first part you're doing really well, but the second part you're not doing well."。
So the whole day, and this never came up, you know, Matthew 22.。
So the whole day I was thinking and agonizing,。
and I came to worship, usually God speaks to me in worship.。
So I came to worship, I was agonizing, "God, you gotta tell me,。
because if you don't tell me, then I can't repent."。
Nothing.。
Then after that, the whole day I was really like, "God, you need to tell me," you know.。
And just before I went into a prayer meeting with some ladies, God began to reveal it.。
I think the suspense had to come for me to really weep for what God showed me.。
I then realized the second dream I'd had the same night was connected to the first.。
Because in the second dream, God had shown me someone who was in need.。
God had shown me somebody who needed hospital fees.。
God had shown me the need of this person, but I had not called that person.。
I had not provided for that person, and I had certainly not prayed for that person.。
God called me out and weeping, I told the people I was in the prayer meeting with,。
and we were all weeping and repenting, because every single one of them。
realized they had done the same.。
In the busyness of life, especially in Hong Kong,。
we can sometimes be so too busy to even look at the need around us.。
But I believe God has even created today, this Sunday, for us to pause a little bit。
and see the need around us.。
The last two weeks, Pastor Andrew has really been unpacking what justice is,。
and it's been amazing.。
I'm no theologian, but today I'm going to unpack as well。
what branches of hope needs, and we believe all of us need, and that is love.。
In the first week, Pastor Andrew spoke about four key relationships.。
Us with God, and it seems from the dream I was doing well with that.。
Us with ourselves, I'm not sure about that because it wasn't revealed.。
But us with others, I wasn't doing so well there.。
And then us with creation.。
Today we're going to focus on us with others,。
and in particular with branches of hope.。
Last week, Pastor Andrew mentioned that you cannot call yourself a Christian。
and remain distant to the injustice in the society around you.。
When the plight of the asylum seekers and refugees in our church。
became so glaring, we could not keep quiet.。
We had to step forward.。
We had to see.。
We had to weep and begin to speak about what people were experiencing in this church.。
And not only that, branches of hope and the ministry of Arise was birthed from this need.。
And year after year, the voice of branches of hope has become louder and louder and louder。
because of the love, the prayers, and the generosity of the people in this room.。
The love, prayer, and giving of you has changed many lives。
and given hope to those in a dire situation.。
We also learned last week that the local church, the body of Christ,。
is always called to walk towards the community and love it.。
But in order for us to know what this love is really about,。
we're going to unpack a little bit of the Greek word for love in Matthew 22, verse 37 to 40.。
There are actually four Greek words I want to speak about,。
and the last one is what we see in Matthew 22.。
So philia love, this is a brotherly love.。
This is an affectionate kind of love based on feelings and proximity.。
And then there's torch love, which is the family love.。
This is a bond created in being a family.。
When I look at Storge, nowadays I've got a teenage daughter,。
and she seems to be leaning more on philia than Storge, but that's okay.。
Then there's eros love.。
This is a love normally based on feelings and passion for each other.。
But today we want to focus on agape love.。
This is a sacrificial and unconditional love.。
While philia, Storge, and eros are basically primarily a love of emotion,。
agape is not primarily an act of feelings,。
though it can be involved, but a love of devotion and acts that flow from God.。
This kind of love in Matthew 22, verse 37 to 40 is agape.。
Today we're going to also look at some scriptures related to agape,。
because in the New Testament, agape is mentioned over 100 times.。
That means it's very important.。
But today we want to look at some of those scriptures, not all 100,。
but some of those scriptures in order for us to see what the definition of agape really is.。
So turn with me to 1 John 3, verse 16 to 18.。
We know what real love is because Jesus gave up his life for us.。
So we also ought to give up our lives for our brothers and sisters.。
If someone has enough money to live well and sees a brother or sister in need,。
but shows no compassion, how can God's love be in that person?。
Dear children, let's not merely say that we love each other.。
Let us show the truth by our actions.。
This is a real scripture, everyone.。
Maybe sometimes you're like me,。
and I sometimes skip through some of these scriptures and think,。
"Oh, I know what God wants me to give."。
Until God calls me out in a dream and says,。
"Pause, you need to look around you and really see."。
It is selfless, unconditional, and it flows from God.。
This is what we see from the scripture.。
It flows from God.。
It is selfless.。
It's looking at others.。
It is purposely looking for the need around us.。
God gave us His best, so we should also give our best.。
The love that God has poured in us during when we got saved。
is the same love He feels we should pour into other people.。
The primary way we share is action-oriented.。
The primary way God showed His love, it was action by sending Jesus Christ.。
The primary way He wants us to show our love is an action-oriented thing.。
By giving our time, by giving our resources, by giving our energy,。
by giving our prayer, and yes, by even giving financially to those who are in need.。
It is expressed through actions and deeds and not just words like we've just said.。
Turn with me to James 2 verse 8 and 18.。
It says, "Yes, indeed, it is good when you obey the royal law as found in the scriptures.。
Love your neighbor as yourself."。
Now, someone may argue some people have faith, others have good deeds,。
but I say, "How can you show me your faith if you don't have good deeds?"。
I will show you my faith by my deeds.。
Agape is a doing word.。
Well, the other three are primarily nouns.。
If you don't remember, you can go back to your English.。
Agape is a doing word.。
To truly live out the word agape, we must partner our words with our actions.。
We must also move forward with our deeds.。
It is also a work of the Holy Spirit.。
Recently, we were having the Holy Spirit series and Galatians 5 verse 22 to 23 came up.。
But the Holy Spirit produces this kind of fruit in our lives.。
Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control.。
There is no law against these things.。
When we were learning about the fruit of the Spirit, the word love in that verse is agape.。
We cannot agape in and of ourselves.。
We need the Holy Spirit to help us to agape because it is countercultural to agape.。
Where a culture says we give to get something back,。
agape says I would disadvantage myself for the good of others.。
I recently came across a friend who sent me the story of Yvonne Roberts,。
the Welsh revivalist.。
He was a revivalist, a leading part of a revival in Wales in 1904 to 1905.。
Through the work of the Holy Spirit, there was a lot of prayer during that revival.。
There was a lot of people getting saved during that revival.。
The prisons were emptied during that revival.。
But the most amazing thing was there were no more people in need in Wales during that time,。
during that revival, because everybody was led by the Holy Spirit to begin to go to the churches。
and begin to give whatever the Holy Spirit was compelling them to give.。
What a beautiful view of how God wants us to meet each other's needs.。
It should flow from us to others just as it flowed from us to God, from God to us.。
It should flow from us to others just as it flowed from God to us.。
In John 13, 34 to 35, "So now I am giving you a new commandment.。
Love each other just as I have loved you.。
You should love each other.。
Your love for one another will prove to the world that you're my disciples."。
And the love should not stop with us because there are other people who need to see this love.。
God pours it into us so we can pour into other people.。
In Branches of Hope, we serve some people who don't know God.。
And the only way they will want to know God is when they see the love flowing from us to them.。
So with these four verses, we will go to an extended definition that I came up with.。
And the new definition for agape is, it is an unconditional, sacrificial love that flows from。
God through the Holy Spirit and leads us to acts of selfless love for others.。
Essentially, it is what Andrew spoke about and described in the first week,。
being willing to disadvantage ourselves for the advantage of our community.。
I truly believe that if everybody gave what God asked us to give,。
there would be no lack in the church of God.。
There would be no lack in the kingdom of God.。
This is a beautiful picture of how God has equipped each and every one of us。
to meet each other's needs.。
It's like a God community where no one lacks anything, whether it is prayer,。
whether it is fellowship, whether it is resources or anything.。
Because at any given time, we probably need one of those.。
And at any given time, we probably can give one of those.。
Allow me to share some of the acts of love that have been expressed to some of our clients。
through Branches of Hope recently.。
Our STOP program recently helped a man called Saul, a father of three from Indonesia.。
We had sold his most prized possession, a rice field,。
to cover a broker's fee who had promised him a high paying dishwashing job in Hong Kong.。
When he arrived in Hong Kong, his dreams were shattered.。
When he discovered the job was a lie.。
His tourist visa expired and his limited English made it difficult for him to navigate。
the immigration requirements to go back home.。
Thankfully, STOP's Indonesian caseworker, Daddy,。
accompanied him from the immigration office to the shelter and through the courtroom.。
Daddy interpreted and guided him through the complex administrative and legal processes.。
Saul was ultimately given a non-custodial sentence in order to return to Indonesia.。
STOP bought his ticket and helped him secure business startup funding。
from the International Organization for Migration.。
At the airport, Saul was overjoyed and grasped Daddy's hands tightly,。
his eyes shining with gratitude.。
The assistance Saul received not only sent him back home to safety,。
but it gave him a new lease of life.。
You might have also read the story of Lisa, an asylum seeker from Russia,。
in the Branches of Hope article published on World Refugee Day.。
Lisa is one of the 200,000 people in Hong Kong that Andrew spoke about。
last week who live in a 100 square foot home.。
She lives with her son, James, in a subdivided flat in Hong Kong.。
As she waits for her case to go through the lengthy process,。
she cannot work and has to survive on the limited government allowance.。
Through the generous donation of someone through the Branches of Hope。
STAR program, which provides an allowance for utilities,。
we will hear more about it later.。
Lisa and James can now use their fan and have the lights on for longer.。
This has not only provided a more comfortable environment for them,。
you know the heat in Hong Kong.。
Now they can turn their fan on,。
but it has given them a space for learning for James.。
So we are not only meeting the current needs,。
but we are speaking into destiny and the future.。
Through the Road and Star programs, our clients,。
they feel seen by us.。
They feel heard that somebody cares.。
They feel cared for.。
They feel comforted.。
They feel covered.。
They feel hopeful.。
And essentially, they feel loved.。
They feel agapid.。
They feel agapid by us,。
just like we want to feel agapid by the community around us.。
The impact of other people's giving to Lisa and Paul and Saul。
have far greater impact on their lives than the people giving no.。
They are giving more than money.。
They are letting them know that they're not alone.。
What may be a meal for us is destiny for someone else.。
Last week, Andrew gave us a model of engagement.。
And in that, he talked about Jesus weeping.。
And that was a key part for Jesus.。
He had to weep before he could speak.。
I believe for us, it's also very key for us to be able to really see。
and not just weep physically,。
but maybe weep emotionally, connecting to the situation,。
not just mentally connecting,。
empathetically connecting to the needs of the community around us.。
Today, we're going to play a four-minute audio video。
in order for us to approach and really see.。
Just a warning, there are sounds of violence。
for those who are sensitive in this audio.。
But this is not a story told by pictures and words.。
But it is by the sounds one might encounter。
along the perilous journey to safety.。
We invite you to close your eyes。
or even look at the subtitles on the screens.。
Whatever you feel will make you immerse。
in the situation and the experience.。
And imagine yourself walking in their shoes.。
At the end of the audio,。
Alex, the executive director of Branches of Hope,。
will come on stage to lead us through a collective exercise。
to drive home just how odious this journey。
from struggle to hope is.。
So please have the resource packs placed on your seats ready.。
And let's listen together.。
[ Music ]。
[ Children talking ]。
[ Gunfire ]。
[ Shushing ]。
[ Music ]。
[ Footsteps ]。
[ Engine starting ]。
[ Radio ]。
[ Footsteps ]。
[ Beeping ]。
[ Music ]。
>> Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Your captain speaking.。
We're approaching Hong Kong and we'll be touching down in the next 30 minutes.。
We wish you a very pleasant stay in Hong Kong。
or a smooth journey to your final destination. Thank you.。
[ Music ]。
>> Please proceed to immigration.。
[ Footsteps ]。
>> Thanks.。
[ Radio ]。
[ Footsteps ]。
[ Foreign Language ]。
[ Foreign Language ]。
[ Radio ]。
[ Foreign Language ]。
[ Radio ]。
[ Beeping ]。
[ Footsteps ]。
>> Everyone, my name is Alex. I'm the executive director at Branches of Hope.。
How was that?。
I wonder if it was a way for you to approach this community a little bit more.。
The audio journey that we just heard is based on real stories。
that community members have told us over the years.。
And of course it reflects primarily the experiences of refugees and asylum seekers,。
but those that we serve through the Stop Trafficking of Persons Program。
are no less terrifying and traumatic.。
Even if your eyes are not filled with tears at this point,。
what we hope is that your hearts are ready to weep。
for the injustice that this experience symbolizes。
and that we can collectively move from empathy towards compassion.。
As Taz mentioned, to do that, we're going to go through a little bit of an exercise together.。
Now all of you should have gotten a little bit of a card on your chairs when you came in.。
This is a resource card.。
And these resources reflect the resources that were needed。
along this audio journey that we just heard to get from one stage to the next.。
There's eight resources in total, but not everybody has all eight resources.。
And so to demonstrate ultimately how difficult this journey is,。
I'm going to ask all of you please to stand.。
Please stand with me.。
Don't be shy, we're all doing it together.。
And basically what I'm going to do now is I'm going to read out these resources one by one.。
And if you have that resource, well done, you get to keep standing.。
But if you don't have that resource, I'm going to ask you to sit down.。
So we're going to start off with the first one.。
If you remember in the story right after the interruption of violence,。
they had to pay a bus driver to get out of there.。
If you have on your resource card the money for the bus, you can stay standing.。
But if you don't, please sit down.。
Check your resource card.。
Oh, Pastor Stephen's out already, my goodness.。
Now if you have on your resource card, if you have passports for yourself and your family, stay standing.。
But if you don't, sit down.。
If you have on your resource cards the savings to pay for flights, you may stay standing.。
But if not, please sit down.。
If you're one of the lucky people that on arrival to Hong Kong has a visa, you can stay standing.。
But if not, please sit down.。
If you are able to communicate in Hong Kong with English or Cantonese, you can stay standing.。
But if you don't, please sit down.。
You can see that slowly but surely we're all starting to sit down.。
If you have money for food and shelter, you can stay standing.。
But if you don't, please sit down.。
And if you have local connections and resources, you may remain standing.。
But if not, please sit down.。
At this point, there's only a handful of people remaining standing.。
And those who are standing should have all eight resources on their card.。
The final one being having your claim as an asylum seeker accepted and receiving refugee status。
and being resettled to a third country.。
If you can see around the room, the lonely ones who are left standing at this point,。
that's about 1% of the total auditorium capacity.。
99% of you are sitting down. 99% of you have not actually made it to this point of protection.。
You have been thrust back into the turmoil that we heard.。
Thank you. You guys can sit down. Thank you so much.。
I think, honestly, this is what makes my heart weep the most.。
This idea of being so close to ultimately safety and thriving your life。
and to just then being sent back.。
And the fact is that not only is it hard to get to Hong Kong,。
you need all those resources to get here, and not everybody has those resources,。
but then in Hong Kong, less than 1%, over 99% of those who actually come to Hong Kong。
ultimately fail in their seeking of protection and get sent back to their home countries.。
At Branches of Hope, what we try to do is we try to come alongside the community。
and we try to cut through the noise and the anxiety of what we just heard。
and ultimately support them along their journey from struggle to hope.。
We provide them with the care and the empowerment that is necessary to lead them to better futures.。
Without organizations like ours, the time in Hong Kong would be much more difficult,。
a life caught in existential conundrums,。
and the only room for personal growth being daily survival. That's it.。
And let's be brutally honest for a moment, for the majority of the people we serve,。
the vast majority of the people we serve, there are no straightforward solutions.。
It is a life in perpetual limbo.。
But this is why the work of Branches of Hope is a conscious and radical act of sacrificial love,。
of agape, what Taz was mentioning and what Ed had referenced just earlier when he was sharing,。
thank you so much Ed by the way, that we carry out every single day.。
I want to reflect on the powerful messages we've heard over the past three weeks。
about justice, compassion, righteousness, and the call to love one another.。
Each sermon has reminded us that our faith is not just a private matter,。
but a communal calling, a calling to act justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with our God.。
At Branches of Hope, we share that calling, and we will continue to pour agape into others,。
God willing, as long as he pours love into us and into all of you.。
The communities we serve might not be our flesh and blood,。
and they may certainly not be in a position to reciprocate in the season that they are in,。
but that's not the point. We can still, and we must still love them regardless.。
We must show them more than just empathy. We must practice compassion. We must act.。
It is this conscious, radical, and continuous act of love, of agape, that is the linchpin,。
connecting everything that we do at Branches of Hope with this day, once a year, with all of you,。
to the message that Taz shared today, to Andrew's sermons before that,。
and to the whole social justice mission of Divine Church.。
If God has poured his love into you, I pray that nothing should restrict the onward flow of that love.。
And if I may dare be so bold, I pray that you direct some of that flow。
to helping us serve the communities God has put on our hearts.。
I pray that agape brings you to approach these communities, the refugees and asylum seekers,。
those who have experienced trafficking and labor exploitation, the vulnerable, the marginalized,。
and I pray that as you approach, you do not just see their needs,。
but your heart is broken for what breaks God's,。
and that this is what causes you to weep, not just for, but with our brothers and sisters.。
If these prayers are answered, if your agape overflows, and you approach, and you see, and you weep,。
and if it is genuine, I know in the depths of my heart that the only God-ordained outcome of this。
is that you will be compelled to speak and to help us speak for the communities we serve.。
It is the only logical conclusion.。
I'm asking you to pour out some of what God has poured into you,。
to support us in our conscious and radical act of love,。
and to help us speak for the communities we serve.。
Last year on Branches of Hope Sunday, your tithes and offerings provided the casework support。
for hundreds of people every single month.。
Your outpouring of love allowed us to run dozens of workshops for migrant workers,。
and your prayers have sustained us as a team and as individuals to keep doing the work that we do.。
Your generosity laid the foundations for the launch of our STAR program,。
which is a monthly financial assistance program providing rent and utility support to hundreds of people.。
Your support has also made it possible to weather fluctuations in donors.。
With your help, over the last few months, we have been serving over 240 people every single month with this assistance.。
And as amazing as that is, it only represents a third of all the people who have been asking and applying for this assistance.。
A third!。
Together, we can do more.。
With your support today, we hope to continue providing the casework support so essential to our communities,。
and we hope to increase the post-secondary education assistance to cover five students for their tertiary education.。
With the help of a new team member, we hope to revive our adult education and development services.。
And besides supporting us with your tithes today, you can also sign up to become a monthly donor, a monthly supporter at our booth outside.。
You can choose for whatever purpose you want to have your support going to,。
whether it is the STAR program, or whether it's our education programs, or even our general service fund.。
The bottom line though is that any regular amount will help us provide financial stability to hundreds of people.。
Let me give you an example.。
If just 10 people from this service today make a commitment that every month you will donate $250, that's maybe two lunches worth.。
If you donate $250 every single month, 10 of you, that would be enough money for us to be able to provide the STAR program assistance to five more people.。
If we have 10 people from every service today to sign up to do that, we're supporting 15 more people.。
It's that simple.。
And if you feel truly overwhelmed with compassion and the agape of God, then maybe the time has come for you to prayerfully consider a career with Branches of Hope.。
We always have opportunities and are looking for Christians to serve alongside us to do the work that we do.。
For all of these things, for all of the things that might catch your interest, please speak to my colleagues outside.。
They're very, very friendly and very happy to help you out.。
To those of you who have been walking so faithfully alongside us and the communities we serve all of these years, we cannot thank you enough.。
And to those of you who may only just be getting to know us or have not felt necessarily the call to support us yet, I pray that today is an encouragement to you to embrace our mission.。
I pray that the Holy Spirit moves among you to give and give generously out of compassion and conviction.。
May your love be like the water gushing from the rock in the desert.。
May God bless and multiply your offerings so that we may continue his work and together support the communities we serve in their journey from struggle to hope.。
Most importantly, though, I pray that these past three weeks have been a blessing to each and every one of you and that it has offered restoration in your relationships with God, your relationships with yourselves, your relationship with each other, and your relationship with creation.。
May we all continue to grow to be big people. Thank you.。
Wonderful.。
I wonder if you could all stand with me.。
And so we're going to now move into a specific time together of agape-ing through our giving.。
And I want you to understand something really importantly right now.。
100% of what is given in our tithes and offerings across our service today, whatever is given in this moment across our services today, are going to Branches of Hope.。
So none of this is going to the vine. It's not going to our normal upkeep.。
100% of what you give right now is going to give immediately to Branches of Hope and the work that you've been hearing about today.。
So your tithes and offerings today are connecting directly with that need.。
In a moment, you'll have the opportunity to give like you would normally do.。
We'll have our hosts pass out the buckets amongst us.。
On your chair, there's the usual giving envelopes that you see every week.。
You can fill that in and whatever.。
Again, all of that money is going to go directly to Branches of Hope.。
Behind me in a moment, you'll see the digital ways to give like normal.。
100% of that goes to Branches of Hope.。
That's what we're going to do right now.。
This is a practical way for us to support this organization.。
Then after the service, you can by all means connect with them more, have a look at that merchandise, maybe sign up for that monthly support as well.。
But I wonder whether we could do this in a place of an attitude of just the Spirit being amongst us, the joy of what it is to be a part of the gospel, to serve in this way.。
So would you just close your eyes with me and bow your head?。
Father, we are grateful that we are a worshipping community.。
By a worshipping community, we're not just singing songs to you.。
We're living lives that reveal the gospel to the world.。
We thank you for what Taz has beautifully shown us out of Scripture today.。
There's a gapay love that is not a feeling but an action.。
We thank you that as we've heard from Alex, that there are very practical direct needs that are within this community that our giving today is going to support.。
Lord, I want to pray now.。
And I want you just to take a moment.。
This is the part of the services just between you and God.。
But just take a moment, just to ask the Holy Spirit to impress upon you how you are to react and act today.。
What is it that the Lord might be calling you to give as your tithes and offerings?。
And what is it that he might be asking you to do to continue to support the work of Branches of Hope in the months ahead?。
So we just invite you to come Holy Spirit.。
Come Holy Spirit.。
And we're going to do this act of offering through a moment of worship.。
Our band are just going to lead us in a time of worship and the hosts are going to hand out the buckets to you.。
Let's celebrate together as we give joyfully and cheerfully to the work of Branches of Hope.。
[Music]。
