So it is a great privilege for me。
to be able to introduce her.。
But she is somebody that, you know,。
she has a number of different hats that she wears.。
You know, she is an author, she's a podcaster,。
she's an advocate for justice,。
she has lived her life serving Jesus,。
and she's somebody, above all things, that loves Jesus.。
And you just know that, you just know that,。
just even in the short time that I've like,。
been physically sat next to her, you just know it.。
So, you know, I really feel that the word。
that she has for us today is a prophetic word for us,。
especially for us at The Vine.。
You know, we've been going through a season of Uncharted,。
we've been going through this time of, you know,。
pushing through with the Ezra series,。
the worship and the weeping,。
and just seeing God in the midst of the rubble, right?。
And seeing God even in the unknown。
and the uncertainty of the future,。
and just trusting.。
And so, you know, I believe this message is, you know,。
really a prophetic message for us here at The Vine.。
But also there are many people here that are visiting。
that have come through this weekend。
for various different reasons,。
and you're here because this message is for you too.。
And so, you know, I really encourage you。
to open up your hearts to really receive。
what it is that God is gonna do.。
So would you give a very warm welcome to Danielle Strickland?。
(congregation applauding)。
So can I pray for you?。
- Yeah, please.。
- Father, I thank you for Danielle.。
I thank you that she has given a lot this weekend,。
but it is from a well of wisdom, of experience,。
but also love for you.。
I thank you, Father, that she loves your word.。
There's a depth that she has knowledge about.。
Her curiosity to imagine you is just,。
it's something that is so refreshing,。
but it's also something that is anointed.。
It's a gift.。
And so, Father, I pray as she shares that gift with us today。
we would truly lean in, receive it,。
and do something with it.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
- Amen.。
What a weekend we've had, and incredible.。
I feel like my friend who, whenever he's done eating a meal,。
he pushes back from the table and he goes,。
"Is it supposed to hurt when you're done eating?"。
(laughing)。
Right?。
I feel like that kind of weekend where it's just like,。
"Could there be more?"。
And then the answer, of course, is yes, there's more.。
There's more.。
And our task here is to increase our capacity, right?。
It's not that there's more of God,。
it's that there's more room in us。
for the God who fills us in every way.。
And I still remember the day that my eldest son。
went to first day of school, kindergarten.。
And I was living in Australia at the time,。
and so he was about five,。
and he wanted to walk by himself even,。
you know, like I couldn't hold his hand.。
He was like all independent, went to school first day.。
And it was quite a day, and when he got home,。
I was all excited, and I said to him, you know,。
"How did it go, you know,。
"your first day of kindergarten in Australia?"。
I mean, like, "Come on, how was it?"。
And he said, "It was boring."。
(audience laughing)。
I was like, "How could it be boring?"。
And he said, "Well, all we did today。
"was we just literally took turns telling stories。
"about what we had done over the summer break."。
And I said, "That doesn't sound boring.。
"Like, we did some actual cool things over the summer break.。
"I was like, so what did you share?。
"Like, what was your story?"。
And he said, "Well, I wanted mine to be really good,。
"so I made one up."。
(audience laughing)。
And I said, "Really?"。
Out of spot of preacher's kid.。
So I said, "Well, what did you say?"。
And he goes, "Well, Mom, you remember that time。
"back in Canada when I was in that go-kart race,。
"and I was going around the track,。
"and then all of a sudden my go-kart,。
"it like exploded and it turned into a motorcycle,。
"and then I ran that motorcycle all the way through,。
"and I won, and they gave me that big gold trophy?"。
And I said, "Nope."。
(audience laughing)。
"Don't remember."。
And then he just looked at me,。
and he put his hand on my head like this,。
and he just closed his eyes.。
And then he said, "Do you remember now?"。
(audience laughing)。
My son, his name is Zion.。
What he's after is a better story.。
He's after a better story.。
It's what we're all after.。
You know, actually, sometimes I think。
when we get to heaven, the first day of heaven's。
just gonna be us telling stories。
about what we did on our summer break,。
and I want mine to be a good one.。
And here's the thing.。
I think the way that Jesus invites us to live our lives。
is we don't have to make it up.。
Our stories will be good, right?。
Our stories will be worthy.。
Our stories will be helpful and good and full。
of the abundant Zoe life that Jesus offers us。
if we'll live that way.。
In some ways, even coming to church together like this。
and worshiping and remembering,。
I mean, even that last song of worship。
is from a guy who was a prisoner on an island of Patmos,。
like under the boot of the empire.。
I mean, literally, like Christians are being persecuted。
everywhere in Rome, and he's mustering up.。
I mean, I can only, it was not anything like that.。
He's in a prison cell in the middle of nowhere,。
and he's probably just going like, "I sing holy."。
Like he's trying to muster up his own sense of self,。
and he says, "I'm worshiping on the Lord's day。
"as a prisoner," and then all of a sudden,。
I hear this voice from heaven, like a trumpet,。
and it says, "Come on up here.。
"Come up here, I wanna show you some things.。
"I wanna tell you some things.。
"I wanna tell you some things that are more real。
"than the real you're experiencing right now,。
"that are more true, that they're the character of God,。
"the invitation that God has for all of his children。
"to be beloved, to be known.。
"You know, come up here, come up now."。
And all the angels cry, "Holy."。
And this is sort of this resetting, this invitation.。
I wanna take a look at the life of the disciples。
in Mark chapter four, just really quick,。
just like a little story that's kinda set。
in the life of Jesus and the disciples,。
that is this one more, you know,。
in this rhythm that Jesus has,。
where he's always inviting people to come, come and see.。
And this is one of the great problems。
that we have sometimes in our faith journey。
in Christianity is somehow we've come under this idea。
that is an illusion, that Christianity。
is about what we believe.。
You know, there's just a construct,。
there's just another religion,。
there's just a construct of belief.。
And so we say, like, if we believe these things,。
or if I hold to these things, then that's what this is.。
It's just like a practice of another religion.。
But it's not, it's not, that's an illusion.。
The real thing, like the real faith practice。
is an invitation to actually follow Jesus.。
It's an invitation to come, to see, to taste, to move.。
The invitation to follow Jesus。
is always a disruption to status quo.。
And an invitation into growth and a reality。
to experience something that is beyond。
what we could even ever conjure up in our best stories.。
And so this is one of those,。
this is like a little tiny snapshot。
in the life of Jesus and the disciples。
that I think holds some keys to this disruptive reimagining。
of what our faith is and what it means to follow Jesus.。
And it's in Mark's Gospel, chapter four, and near the end.。
We're all gonna read it together.。
I'm just gonna invite you to read it out loud with me.。
Are you ready?。
Here we go, Mark chapter four, starting at verse 35,。
and let's go.。
"That day, when evening came, he said to his disciples,。
"let us go over to the other side.。
"And leaving the crowd behind,。
"they took him along just as he was in the boat.。
"There were also other boats with him.。
"A furious squall came up,。
"and the waves broke over the boat。
"so that it was nearly swamped.。
"Jesus was in the stern, sleeping on a cushion.。
"And the disciples woke him and said to him,。
"Teacher, don't you care if we drown?。
"He got up, rebuked the wind, and said to the waves,。
"Quiet, be still.。
"Then the wind died down, and it was completely calm.。
"He said to his disciples, why are you so afraid?。
"Do you still have no faith?。
"They were terrified and asked each other,。
"Who is this?。
"Even the wind and the waves obey him."。
Amen.。
This invitation that Jesus gives to the disciples。
in this context is a disruption.。
And it's a disruption because, number one,。
they're killing it.。
They're doing amazing.。
Like, if you read a little bit before this,。
you'll see they're in the, you know,。
Jesus is killing it in mystery.。
He's just like, he's winning.。
You know, there's crowds of people, he's healing everybody.。
People are being healed of diseases。
and cured of evil spirits,。
and they're just like, whispers are going everywhere.。
This is probably the one who was expected.。
You know, this is probably the Messiah.。
There's all these, I mean, the disciples。
are probably just living their best lives.。
Their moms are just like, that's my boy over there。
with that rabbi who's healing all the people.。
I mean, it's just like, woo-hoo!。
And Jesus is like, yeah, we should,。
now's a good time to go.。
It's like, no, now's not a good time to go.。
Like, now's a good time to stay,。
'cause if we stay here, we could keep building this thing.。
I mean, we could be like the height of success.。
We could be like, the dreams could come true.。
My mom could be actually proud of me, you know?。
And then Jesus is like, no, let's go.。
And when he says, let's go to the other side,。
it's not just like, let's go to the other side,。
like of the lake, 'cause it's like better over there.。
It's like, let's go to the other side of the tracks.。
It's like, let's go to that part of the lake。
where your mom said, don't go there,。
because over there are all the compromisers.。
Over there are all the pig farmers,。
which if you're Jewish and kosher at all,。
you know that's not what you want to be near.。
Over there is where all those Roman sympathizers are,。
all those sellouts of the empire.。
Over there is where all of those people live.。
Don't go over there.。
And in the midst of this successful, amazing ministry,。
Jesus says, yeah, we should, you know where we should go?。
I remember living in Australia。
and I was doing some social justice work there,。
trying to help women who were suffering。
from sexual exploitation within a brothel system。
that was legalized.。
So it's really tricky.。
And I just remember going like,。
I don't even know how to do this.。
Like, this is crazy.。
And I was asking the Lord, like, how are we gonna do this?。
And I got this call from this friend's mother.。
She's a retired Baptist lady in a suburb in Australia.。
And she says, Danielle, I need to meet with you.。
So I, you know, you always say yes to your friend's mom.。
Right?。
So I met with her and she said, I was,。
I was, oh, she said, I keep getting these calls。
'cause my number, my phone number is only one digit。
different from the local brothel。
in my neighborhood's phone number.。
So she said, I keep getting these calls, you know,。
and they're really disruptive.。
Like, I don't want these calls.。
So she said, I decided that I would change my phone number.。
So she said, on the day that I was gonna go change。
my phone number, I was doing my devotions in the morning,。
like a good Baptist should.。
And she said, the Holy Spirit spoke to me.。
I said, awkward.。
Anyway, and she said, the Holy Spirit said,。
Jan, why are you changing your phone number?。
And she said, well, 'cause the local, you know,。
but I keep getting these calls.。
And she said, I felt like the Holy Spirit said to me,。
I know I'm sending them.。
And she said to me, so what should I do?。
And I'm thinking to myself, I don't know.。
What, am I an expert on grandma mobilization?。
You know, like I, you know, but then I'm also like。
hearing the Holy Spirit say like, hey, right?。
So when you don't know what to do,。
you just ask more questions, right?。
Like as a leader, you're not allowed to go like,。
I don't know, this is crazy.。
I don't know what I'm doing.。
As a leader, you have to go, oh, interesting question。
you have there, Jan.。
Hmm, I don't want, I wonder, you know.。
So I said, what would you normally do。
if you had a neighbor, you know, you're a neighborly person,。
you're a Christian in your community.。
Like, what would you do if someone had an accident?。
You know, your neighbor moved in。
and was new from another country.。
Like, what would you normally do?。
What would be your normal response as a good neighbor?。
She said, oh, that's easy.。
I would just bake some cupcakes and go visit.。
And I'm like, great, let's do that.。
She said, do what?。
I'm like, well, you're gonna have to bake.。
I don't do that.。
But like, you bake the cupcakes。
and we'll go visit your local brothel.。
And she's like, that's the strategy?。
I'm like, yes, Padawan.。
I'm like, I, and the whole weekend,。
she's like baking, baking, baking, praying, praying, praying.。
And the whole weekend, I'm praying,。
God, please don't kill Jan.。
Like, please don't let her die.。
Like, please let this be a good strategy.。
Like, ah, what have I done?。
You know, it's my friend's mom.。
Like, I'm just like, ah.。
And anyway, we meet together at the headquarters。
where I worked, and it's just a couple blocks away,。
this brothel, and we meet together to pray.。
And she's got the cupcakes, and I'm like ready to go.。
And we're praying up a storm.。
And she says to me, you know,。
this weekend when I was praying,。
I felt like God said to me, Jan, this is good,。
but I want you to do this by yourself.。
Like, you do it.。
And I remember saying to her, but I'm like the expert.。
Right, like, I'm like the social,。
I've got like a title and everything.。
Like, I'm ready.。
Like, I'm headquarters material.。
You know, like, I'm mobile.。
Like, I'm the, and she said, yeah, you're the expert,。
but I'm the neighbor.。
What?。
I said, okay, okay, you can do it yourself,。
but I'm coming like for support, right?。
Like, I'm coming.。
So we went there, and I remember Jan,。
like literally, this was, this is crazy.。
This is disruptive.。
This is what this is, right?。
This is like, her life's fine.。
She's a good Christian woman.。
She doesn't need more drama in her life.。
She's retired for Pete's sake.。
When does it end, right?。
She's like a good neighbor.。
She's a good person.。
She goes to church.。
She's a Christian, and there's a disruption to her life.。
And the disruption is not a problem.。
It's an invitation to go to the other side.。
Jesus has something for her.。
Jesus has something.。
He has a need to respond to need in the world,。
to injustice in the world.。
And so he's inviting her.。
So we get to this, get to this brothel,。
and I'm just praying up a storm, you know?。
Most of it is just like really strong prayers of faith,。
like please don't let anything happen to this woman.。
But also I'm just like binding the spirit。
of sexual exploitation over, so you know,。
I'm just like, God, make a way.。
Like, I'm like, I'm like from the Salvation Army,。
so I'm just like arsenal, you know?。
Like just, I release the blessing of God,。
like favor of God over this brothel, you know?。
Just like open doors, you know?。
Then I just watched Jan like climb up.。
She's like shaking, you know?。
She's got this batch of cupcakes,。
and she knocks on the door,。
and this guy manager opens the door,。
like 'cause she's not, you know, the normal clientele.。
And he says like, can I help you, you know?。
And she goes, I brought cupcakes, you know, just.。
(audience laughing)。
And he, literally, I saw, in the spirit,。
I saw the cosmic superpower of like demonic power。
of exploitation going, no, not the cupcakes.。
(audience laughing)。
'Cause Jan just walked in.。
And she went into the back room and met every girl。
and like got her name, got the name,。
got every woman and got their names,。
invited them over for dinners,。
and I'm sorry it took me so long to get here.。
I'm your neighbor.。
I'm an Australian.。
Have you ever had an Australian dish?。
I'd love to host it.。
You know, like just this whole,。
and she came out of that brothel just kind of levitating,。
you know, like just.。
And she said, I'd like, I'm coming back next Tuesday.。
You know, like I'm, this is happening.。
Like I'm being a neighbor.。
Like I'm doing, you know?。
And I ran back to headquarters,。
and I called 10 of my craziest friends,。
and I said, quick, we gotta get organized.。
Like the Baptists are gonna beat us to the brothels.。
You know?。
And eventually like this whole strategy。
of brothel chaplaincy started。
and 70 different teams across cities across,。
and we found syndicates of trafficking.。
I mean, it's just like a whole thing, but listen.。
This is the point.。
The disruption, the irritation, the pain in the neck,。
the thing that you never wanted,。
the thing that you didn't want.。
And it doesn't always happen.。
It's not like the disciples are fleeing。
because they're like, this isn't working out.。
We better go somewhere else.。
It's working.。
They're living their best lives.。
They're like living their dream,。
and that's when the invitation comes。
to cross over to the other side.。
And yet I was thinking when I was studying the scripture,。
I was just like, why?。
Like it just seems kind of like so random.。
Like why do this?。
And I was studying a monk, Daniel Borgay,。
from France, who was just meditating on the scripture。
for most of his life, actually.。
And he said, you know, if you read on in chapter five,。
when they get there and some of the things that unfold,。
it describes the guy that is unable。
to be helped by anybody else.。
He's beyond helpable.。
He's possessed by a legion of demonic spirits.。
He's possessed by, he can't be contained.。
He's roaming around.。
He's cutting himself.。
He's just like this person under the boot of the empire.。
In all of the ways, he's isolated.。
He's alone.。
He is the poor.。
He is the forsaken.。
He is the forgotten.。
He is the unheard.。
He is the invisible.。
He's the pain in the neck.。
He's the one that doesn't matter, you know?。
And the scripture, when they're describing him,。
in Mark chapter five, it says that he would go。
into the mountains and he would cry out.。
And Daniel says, you know, when I was looking。
into studying the scripture, the word cry out there。
is the same word that God uses to describe himself。
when he says, I am the God who hears the cry.。
And he's convinced that the reason Jesus says。
at the height of the ministry in his own region,。
when everything was going great。
and he was totally expended, actually,。
I think he was totally exhausted because all day long。
he had been healing the sick and preaching。
and doing all the things all day.。
And at the end of the day, the God who hears the cry。
heard the cry on the other side of the lake.。
And because God is who God is,。
and because God is the God who hears the cry,。
he says, let's go.。
We gotta go.。
Disciples go, go, go, go right now.。
Right now.。
Because God, the character of God is the one。
who responds to the cry.。
It's who he is.。
So the invitation for the disciples is to come。
on an encounter with the living Jesus,。
the one who hears the cry, the one who responds to it,。
the one who can't hold himself back, actually,。
when he hears it.。
The God who hears the cry, and in they go.。
So there's one invitation, come, follow me.。
Let's go to the other side.。
It's always disruptive, but it's always an invitation。
to actually go with Jesus, which is the difference。
between a living faith and a construct of a belief.。
Okay, the living faith, always go for that one.。
Always go for that one.。
And the story unfolds with, I think,。
four basic questions that happen.。
Okay, so first of all, when they get into the boat。
and they go to the other side,。
and I don't know if you have this belief,。
but I often believe this, is if I do what God asks me to do,。
everything should work out fine.。
Right?。
As a matter of fact, I've heard people say,。
this is so hard, it must not be God's will.。
Have you ever heard that?。
Or it's like, I would do this, but the resistance is there,。
so obviously God doesn't want me to do it.。
I'm like, have you even read the Bible?。
Right?。
Like, when you actually respond to an invitation。
that God gives you to be formed, to be close to Jesus,。
to know what it is to be like Jesus in the world,。
to actually be this person that Jesus invites you to do,。
it's, all it is is resistance.。
I mean, Jesus literally, like,。
if only he had a set in the scriptures,。
guys, this is gonna be hard.。
Oh, wait a minute, he did.。
Over and over and over, the world's gonna hate you,。
the resistance is gonna be hard,。
people might insult you and persecute you。
and say all kinds of false things about,。
as the disciples mature in their faith,。
he's like, they're probably even gonna kill you,。
but don't worry.。
This is the invitation to be formed by Christ,。
is a disruption to the status quo。
and an invitation to actually follow Jesus。
and be formed by the resistance.。
I don't think the storm that came up on that lake。
was just a happenstance, I don't think,。
oh, nuts, Jesus picked the wrong night,。
I don't think anything,。
I think the resistance is part of the training.。
That's how we learn to be disciples.。
The resistance trains us, makes us stronger,。
helps us get to the core of what it is。
and who it is that we are to know。
and encounter Jesus for ourselves,。
so that when we actually go and tell the good news,。
we've encountered it,。
we know the one of whom we speak, this Jesus.。
And so the storm comes against them。
and there's four questions in the text。
that I just wanna follow quickly.。
The first one is the disciples' panic.。
The disciples are freaking out。
and this must have been a pretty bad storm。
because they go wake up Jesus,。
Jesus is sleeping, which is a whole other thing,。
Jesus isn't afraid of chaos, by the way.。
Surrender is not trying harder,。
it's relaxing into the goodness of God,。
the grace of God, the strength of God,。
the kingship of God, and Jesus is surrendered to God.。
And the disciples wake him up。
and all of the verbs there are like, they're panicked,。
and they say to Jesus this question,。
do you not even care if we drown?。
That's a fascinating question.。
It's not save us, we're gonna drown,。
it's a deeper question than that.。
Teacher, they say,。
do you even care if we drown?。
You know what that question is?。
That question's honest.。
That question is a deeper question。
than most people get to in their journey of discipleship.。
That question is a question that can only actually be asked。
when times are tough, when fear is there,。
when the panic sets in, when you're in an encounter。
that's too hard for you and too difficult to you,。
do you even care?。
Do you even care?。
I remember journeying with a friend of mine。
who had a life that looked just great.。
She's married to the chief of surgery,。
she was living it, she was wealthy, she was an artist,。
she has all these things, she's beautiful.。
But actually the reality of her life。
was that her marriage was a mess, her friends weren't real,。
it was all fake, it was like she was isolated,。
she was stuck, no one really knew her, no one knew her,。
she felt isolated and alone, she was depressed,。
and she just kept taking more and more medication。
to try to numb her feelings.。
And I remember saying to her one day,。
I'm not even recognizing you, man,。
how much meds are you taking?。
By the way, if you suffer from clinical depression。
or something like that, I'm a big fan。
of getting professional help and finding some medications。
that might help, but this was not that,。
this was like a masking, this was like a covering,。
this was a numbing.。
And I said to her, what are you doing?。
She said, Danielle, I don't know what else to do.。
What else am I gonna do?。
I'm just crying all the time.。
What am I gonna say to people when I'm in these places,。
I'm just crying all the time.。
I said, I don't know, maybe I'm sad.。
Maybe I'm sad, maybe like get to the place。
where instead of covering the stuff and numbing the stuff。
and pretending the stuff and getting stuck。
in these sort of like pretenses of fineness。
that we actually got honest.。
Do you know that hope can't even be hope。
unless it gets honest?。
Do you know the majority of the Psalms。
are just David saying, do you even care?。
Do you know it's okay to be honest with God?。
Do you know actually that real and true discipleship。
is actually getting to a place where you could be honest。
with your lament, with the brokenness,。
with the condition of your life?。
Had another friend I had, I was playing。
in a woman's basketball league,。
and she was a council woman on the city hall.。
She was running for mayor.。
And I was doing some afterschool stuff with inner city kids.。
And I said to her, I'd really love some help fundraising.。
Do you think you would come?。
I thought this will be good for her image。
and this will be good for our money.。
I said, do you think you could come help me fundraise?。
And she said, well, let me come see the program.。
So she came, I showed her around, she loved it.。
She said, I'd be honored to fundraise for you.。
But she said, I want to be really honest about something.。
She said, I believe Christianity is for the weak.。
I just want to be upfront about it.。
And I said, wow, I'm so glad you understand it.。
And she said, come again?。
I said, you nailed it.。
Christianity is for the weak.。
And you're looking at one of the weakest of them all.。
Where would I be but for the grace of God?。
Where would I be?。
It's not my crutch, it's my wheelchair, man.。
It's my stretcher.。
I've only got Jesus.。
And Jesus got me when I needed Jesus most.。
When I was raging against the world。
and the world was raging against me,。
and I said, do I even matter, and is God even real,。
and does he even care?。
And I encountered a God who indeed was real and did care.。
And I remember she sent an email right that night.。
She said, I didn't mean to call you weak.。
I wasn't trying to insult you.。
I said, no, you nailed it.。
You got it.。
Sleep tight, don't worry.。
I don't mean I'm not weak on the basketball court,。
but I mean in general, I'm, you know.。
And back and forth, this flurry of games.。
And finally she said, look, could we meet for coffee?。
And she had been raised by high power lawyers.。
She's mayor of the city council.。
You know, she's got like,。
she's running a whole program at the school.。
She's just like, all she knows is strength and projection。
and like, you know, champion and victory.。
And she meets me for coffee in this coffee shop。
and she goes to say hi,。
but instead she just starts weeping.。
She says, I'm so weak.。
I'm so weak.。
I'm like, oh, thank God.。
Can we just get to the end of ourselves?。
Could we just get to the end of ourselves。
and the start of God?。
I'm so weak.。
Does God even care?。
Is this even real?。
Could we just be real and honest?。
You know, it's really interesting.。
I love, part of the thing I love about the story。
is that Jesus does not rebuke their question.。
He responds.。
He doesn't respond with words.。
He responds with presence, with action.。
He responds to their need, their deepest concern.。
Do you even care if we drown?。
Jesus is like, watch this.。
And responds.。
Quiet, be still, he says to the sea.。
Quiet, be still.。
Jesus cares.。
That's the answer to their question.。
Not in a theological textbook, not in a teaching time,。
in the middle of the storms of the boat,。
you know, where David even says, you know,。
I finally figured out if I get to the top。
of the glorious heavens, there God is.。
And if I make my bed in the depths of hell, there God is.。
Does he care?。
He responds.。
And Jesus answers with two questions.。
Do you know that Jesus asked over 323 questions。
in the gospels, if you add them all up?。
He was asked 189 and he only answered directly three.。
So convicted as a Christian leader, you know,。
where you come to this place and all we do。
is give people answers, and all Jesus did。
was give people questions.。
And the two questions that he says are this.。
Why are you so afraid?。
Now, I used to read the questions of Jesus。
like sarcastic rebuttals, you know?。
Like, why are you so afraid?。
Where's your faith?。
And then like I progressed to like Jesus。
more like passive aggressive, like my mom,。
like are you gonna wear that?。
Right, passive aggressive, we're asking questions,。
but really we're just like trying to say the thing,。
you know?。
And then I actually thought, you know what,。
I think I might just, I might just actually assume。
that Jesus is really asking genuine questions.。
What if Jesus is really wanting to know?。
What if they're like legitimate questions?。
This is a really great, I spent years just printing off。
all the questions of Jesus and asking them.。
They're amazing.。
Like questions like, do you wanna be well?。
I just spent a week of my life letting Jesus ask me,。
do you wanna be well?。
Do you wanna be well?。
These questions, why are you so afraid?。
I think he genuinely wants to know, why are you so afraid?。
Fear is the currency of oppression.。
You know, fear is, it's a currency, so you get caught up.。
So if fear is motivating you, whatever your decision is,。
you will either be oppressed。
or you'll be oppressing somebody else.。
If fear is your motivator, it will get you into a currency.。
That's how oppression works.。
Its currency is fear.。
And we live in a currency of fear.。
I mean, all around the world, we've never been so afraid.。
And I feel like part of the formation, the resistance,。
when Jesus invites us to go with him,。
which is what discipleship is,。
to cross over to the other side,。
to respond to the cry of the world,。
one of the questions he asks us is, why are we so afraid?。
And it's a good question.。
Because you can't deal with fear。
if you're not willing to name the fear, right?。
You can't deal with fear by denying fear.。
You can't deal with fear by like putting up the,。
I am not afraid, I am not afraid,。
and saying it 10 times a day。
so that finally you're not afraid.。
You gotta deal with fear by actually naming the fear。
and then inviting a power greater than the fear,。
which the scripture is very clear.。
The power greater than the fear is perfect love,。
and perfect love is a person of Jesus.。
And Jesus is with them, and he says, why are you so afraid?。
And when you really get honest with this,。
I mean, why are you so afraid?。
I mean, what are you afraid of?。
When Jesus is inviting you to cross over,。
when Jesus is disrupting your life,。
what are we afraid of?。
We're afraid of looking like fools.。
We're afraid of losing favor, maybe.。
I'm afraid of failing.。
I'm terrified of failing.。
Maybe I'll say the wrong thing.。
Maybe I'll say the right thing.。
I don't know.。
Maybe people will love me.。
Maybe people will hate me.。
I mean, the fears are endless,。
but getting honest with the fear,。
why are you so afraid?。
And then realizing, ah, in the middle of my fear,。
here is one who is perfect love,。
who can drive it out, who can drive it out.。
And the second question, in the NIV,。
it puts it in a weird way.。
It says, the one that we just read,。
it says, have you no faith?。
The question really in the text is, where is your faith?。
They obviously have faith.。
They're in the boat with Jesus.。
They're going to the other side.。
Three cheers for the disciples.。
They did it.。
You know, they're doing it.。
They're on the journey.。
And again, just for the record,。
the journey is the point.。
To be like Jesus is the point.。
We're always constantly, once I get to the other side,。
that'll be the point.。
No, the point is to encounter Jesus,。
to be with Jesus, to be honest with Jesus,。
to ask the questions of Jesus,。
to have an encounter with Jesus.。
That is the point.。
They're living the point.。
And he says, where is your faith?。
I love it.。
Where is your faith?。
I would imagine, I mean, I'm just making this up,。
but I'd imagine some of their faith。
might have been in their own ability.。
They're sailors.。
They've crossed that sea a bunch of times.。
I mean, part of their faith。
might have been in their own ability,。
and they're getting to the end of that。
in a real quick hurry.。
Which, by the way, the end of yourself。
is the beginning of God.。
It's a beautiful place to get to.。
The sweet surrender of getting to the end。
of your own capacity, where you realize。
the faith that you had in these things,。
even your own things, are not gonna get you there.。
You're gonna need to put your faith in something real.。
Where is your faith?。
You know, it's not about quantity faith, right?。
Jesus told us this.。
It's just like a mustard seed,。
you just need a tiny little bit.。
But locating it and putting that faith。
in the one who is faithful, that's a work.。
That's a work.。
That's a work of discipleship.。
Locating your faith.。
Where is your faith?。
Is your faith in a political system or an outcome?。
Is your faith in your church's ability to do something?。
Is your faith in your economic outcome?。
Is your faith in the possibility。
of what it will look like?。
Where is your faith?。
And if you could find your faith。
and put it, redirect it, into the person of Jesus,。
you will be encountering the one。
who could drive out the fear,。
who could answer some of your deepest questions.。
And could help you reimagine a life。
that is full of the promises and the purposes of God.。
I was sharing about this camp I was at.。
It was this really religious, boring camp as a kid.。
A music camp.。
It was literally, it was you snooze, you win.。
That's what I called it.。
And I was there, they invited me to come.。
It's like the Bible teacher, I was like, ooh.。
And I went anyway, and it was a disruption.。
And in the middle of this camp, Jesus showed up.。
I can't even describe it.。
It was like the craziest thing I've ever seen.。
The only thing I could think is the drier the wood,。
the light, the bigger the fire, right?。
And God just showed up,。
and these kids just started encountering Jesus.。
And I remember this one kid was describing what had happened。
and it was a testimony night, and he grabbed this mic.。
It's a very religious crowd, he just grabs this mic,。
and he goes, "I just, the other week,"。
he said, "I was at university, and I just like,。
"I looked up to heaven and I raised my fist。
"and I gave God the finger, I said, 'F you God!'"。
Except he didn't say, "F you God."。
I'm like giving you a sanitized version.。
He's just like, "F you God!"。
It's just like, everyone's like, "Ooh!"。
And then the guy just falls to the ground。
and he starts to weep and weep.。
And he said, "I didn't know he was real.。
"I didn't know he was real.。
"I didn't know he was real."。
You just feel the spirit break out across the room.。
"I didn't know he was real.。
"He's real."。
And it's the final question of the,。
the final question, or it's just love.。
It's like the state of discipleship。
for the rest of your life, you know?。
It's not like you ever arrive.。
The disciples, in response to this encounter。
where they've witnessed Jesus, respond to them。
in care and compassion and strength and power.。
He's with them, not against them, he's for them.。
And they get honest and they get past the shallow ideas。
of like pretense and what should be.。
And Jesus is challenging them,。
but in ways that are beautiful.。
'Cause they can start to identify their fear。
and they can start to get honest about it。
and they can start to locate their faith.。
And then they just talk amongst themselves。
and they're like, "Who is this guy?。
"Who is this guy?。
"Holy.。
"Who is this guy?。
"Oh, this?。
"This, this?"。
You know, we had a home group at my house.。
I lived in Toronto and a lot of refugees.。
We had a lot of refugee friends and they came over。
and we just had this like, it was mediocre food。
most of the time 'cause I was cooking。
'til I wised up and got some of my friends to cook.。
But anyway, we just, but we just,。
there was enough for everybody and we loved each other.。
We welcomed each other and we had this,。
a friend of mine came who is a recent refugee from Sudan。
and she joined us and we're a couple weeks into this thing.。
She just kept coming back.。
You know, I met her through the food bank at our church。
and we're doing dishes in the kitchen。
and she's, I'm passing her a dish。
and she looks at me and she goes, "What is this?"。
And I said, "That's a dish."。
She goes, "No, not this."。
She said, "What's this?"。
I said, "Oh, this.。
"Oh, this is, this is like people who follow Jesus.。
"Like this is like a family.。
"This is like a community.。
"Like this is a place where we all love。
"and serve and follow Jesus。
"and like people are welcome here."。
And she goes, "This is, but you,"。
she said to me, "But I'm a Muslim."。
I said, "Oh, are you?"。
She said, "Yeah."。
So like, "Should I leave?"。
I said, "No, I love you double now."。
She goes, "No, like why would you leave?。
"I don't care.。
"I didn't know you were,"。
she's like, "I know you didn't know,。
"but like I've been keeping it a secret.。
"Like should I?"。
And I said, "No, like it's all good, man.。
"Are you okay?。
"Like is the food okay?。
"Like should I change the food。
"so that you're more comfortable?。
"Like what do you need?"。
She goes, "No, like I just didn't think I would be welcome."。
And we're on this couple of weeks later.。
She looks at me and she goes,。
"Okay, what is this exactly again?"。
And in the end, the only answer I had for her in the end,。
the only answer I had for her was,。
"This is, this is Jesus."。
This is Jesus.。
This person who heard your cry。
in this like little tiny apartment that you're stuck in。
on the other side of the world。
because you're fleeing for your life。
and you're fleeing from persecution。
and you feel paranoid about everybody and unwelcome。
and you feel unknown and you feel unloved.。
This is the Jesus who heard the cry。
and brought you to a people to help tell you。
that you're not alone and that you are beloved。
and that God sees all the way through your worst questions。
and your hardest answers and all of your fears。
and all of your concerns。
and actually even sees the faith that you have。
to want something real for your life.。
This is Jesus.。
And she said, "I'll have all of him.。
"I'll have all of him.。
"I'll have all of him."。
Who wouldn't?。
Huh?。
Who wouldn't?。
If they could only know,。
if they could only see the invitation,。
if you could only see,。
maybe you're here and you just thought Christianity。
was just a belief system,。
like we're in competition with other religions of the world.。
(laughs)。
That's not what it is.。
Christianity is an invitation,。
a disruption to the status quo。
to reimagine our lives in a world。
where things are as they should be,。
where there's more than enough,。
where the lonely are put in families,。
where there are gardens and wilderness,。
where there's a people who lay down arms。
and love each other,。
a place where the grace of God is so radically inclusive。
that it doesn't matter what your background is。
or what your sin is.。
You could even be a demonically possessed guy。
living with pigs.。
And Jesus would move heaven and earth to get to you。
and liberate you。
and love you.。
Who is this man?。
It's Jesus.。
It's Jesus.。
My friend who became the mayor in the end,。
not only a follower of Jesus, but became a mayor,。
and the town had such a horrible history。
of violence against indigenous Canadians,。
just a lot of injustice.。
And she had been so transformed by Jesus。
that she went from this strong powerhouse lawyer person。
to this like weeping, weak,。
like fully alive, but also emotionally tapped in person.。
And she would just sit in city council。
and weep and weep and weep.。
And she started a prayer meeting。
in the city hall of repentance and lament。
for the violence that had been done。
to the indigenous community.。
And a revival and a reconciliation began to start。
at the center of that town.。
Not because of her strength, but because of her weakness,。
but because of her weakness being found。
in the person of Jesus, because she got honest,。
because she came, because she had a genuine encounter,。
because she heard the cry,。
because the spirit of God was in her hearing the cry,。
because she saw the disruption and went to the other side.。
And transformation happens.。
Don't you want, don't you want that kind of encounter。
with Jesus and live that kind of life?。
(silence)。
Yeah, let's pray.。
You know, I, just before we pray,。
I feel like telling you my son Judah。
was really late learning to ride a bike.。
He was really careful, he had these training wheels on.。
He didn't want to leave them.。
He just, I'll be fine, you know?。
And he's like way too old for this.。
Like a little girl biked by him without the training wheels.。
I was like, I can't take this anymore.。
So I said to him, honey, let's just try it one time.。
We'll just put the training wheels up.。
We won't take them off the bike.。
We'll just put them up and give it a try.。
And if it doesn't work,。
we'll put the training wheels back down.。
Like just, and he goes, okay, I'll give it a try.。
And of course he just takes off.。
He's more than ready.。
And he comes back and he's just all smiles.。
And he looks at me, he goes, mom, I'm totally riding a bike.。
And I said, I know, honey, I saw it.。
I'm so proud of you.。
And he said to me, mom, you could totally preach this.。
I said, thanks.。
And what do you mean?。
And he goes, just think about it.。
My training wheels were holding me back.。
(exhaling)。
God, we confess.。
We confess that we're so afraid.。
We have training wheels on training wheels on training wheels。
'cause we're so scared of falling or failing or,。
I don't know, all of us.。
We have deep questions that we've never even,。
we've never even had the strength to ask.。
We don't even know if it's okay, but。
would you help us be real and to be brave。
and to be honest and to be real?。
Would you help us to understand that the disruption。
is really an invitation from heaven to reimagine a world。
and a life that is alive with you?。
And I don't know what it is.。
I feel like there are people here who just need。
to trust Jesus to take the training wheels off.。
And I also just wanna say, if you're here。
and you actually thought Christianity。
was like some religious belief system。
and not an actual come and follow me。
from a person who is alive and inviting you。
to come alive in the person of Jesus,。
then this is your moment.。
You are, all you need to do is just say I'm in.。
Take the invitation.。
I'm coming.。
I'm belonging.。
You know, my friend from Sudan,。
she's just like I'm not leaving.。
I'm coming.。
I want all there is and she's still doing it.。
She's still doing it, experiencing the boundlessness。
of reimagining her life with Jesus.。
That's it, you can do that.。
Just let someone from this church know so we could help you。
and we could travel with you and you would know。
that you are welcome and you're not alone, not anymore.。
You are welcome, you belong.。
You are seen and know God heard your cry.。
God heard your cry in response.。
And you may be here and you may be in resistance。
thinking wow, I must got it wrong。
'cause if God was with me, this wouldn't be so hard。
and you just need to be relieved of that false thought.。
God is with you and it's hard.。
And God's with you and it's hard and God's with you.。
And it's hard, relax into the training, the journey.。
God is enough.。
God is alive, God is here.。
God is with us.。
So Jesus, we just say thank you and yes.。
Thank you for the invitation.。
To go to the other side and we just say yes.。
Yes to inconvenience, yes to leaving status quo,。
yes to yikes, yes to we don't know what we're doing,。
yes to we might fail, yes to we might come。
against resistance, yes to the storm if necessary,。
yes to the one that we're scared of on the other side,。
yes to rejection, yes to pain, yes.。
Because it's yes to you that we're really saying.。
So we say it.。
We say it, even if we tremble, our voices tremble,。
we say it still, yes.。
Yes to you, yes to the living one, yes to come up here,。
come up now and see the holy, holy, holy,。
slain lamb of God, every tribe, every tongue,。
every nation, worshiping the one.。
Yes.。
Let our lives be yes.。
We'll go, we'll go to the other side.。
Just take a minute to imagine yourself in the boat.。
Maybe you need to imagine yourself on the shore。
and Jesus' invitation is like, come on, let's go.。
Maybe you're in the middle of the sea。
and you're like, what on earth?。
Ask him.。
Answer him.。
Ask him.。
And be amazed.。
He's better than you ever imagined.。
Greater than you could ever even understand.。
He's truer than your deepest fear.。
Jesus, we wanna know you, we wanna follow you,。
we wanna encounter your glory.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
(wind whooshing)。
(silence)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
