I want to be just open your hands before the Lord now.。
As we were worshipping,。
I saw a picture of a massive ball of string.。
And this ball of string was filled with all these knots.。
And there was somebody who was trying desperately。
to untie all the knots in this massive ball of string.。
And it was super stressful for that person.。
We've just been singing a song about release and freedom.。
Been singing a song about how there's power。
in the name of Jesus.。
How that He is our living hope.。
And one of the great strongholds over the city of Hong Kong。
is the stronghold of anxiety.。
And I want to just take a moment to speak into anxiety.。
And if that is something that is impacting you。
in this season of your life,。
we want to just do a little bit of work。
with the Holy Spirit right now in that place.。
So whilst every eye is closed,。
I want you just to take a moment.。
And if anxiety is something that's a reality for you,。
whether it's something that you struggled with in the past。
or something that you're struggling with right now,。
and if you're online right now, this is for you too,。
just for you to close your eyes as well in this moment.。
I want to invite anybody here。
that recognises the stronghold of anxiety.。
When anxiety is at work in us, it's like a darkness.。
There's like this sense of wanting to flee.。
We're uncomfortable, we're overwhelmed.。
If you're experiencing those emotions recently,。
I want you just to open your hands where you are right now.。
By opening your hands, it's just a simple gesture。
before the Holy Spirit to say, that's somewhat of my life.。
I recognise anxiety is an issue for me in this moment.。
Father, when we think about that ball of string,。
we can't do anything.。
And that panic rises in us。
as we try to unravel the ball of string.。
And our anxiety sits in us。
when we try to sort out our problems。
and we try to get ourselves on top of everything.。
That just creates more anxiety in us.。
But Lord, we've just sung a song。
which declares that You are not in the grave.。
We've just sung a song that declares。
that You were raised again,。
that You come back for Your church,。
that You fight battles for us, that You're the Lion.。
And so Lord, I want to pray over anybody in this room。
or online right now whose hands are open.。
Father, I want to pray for a releasing。
by Your grace and Your mercy。
of the power of the Holy Spirit.。
Lord, we take anxiety and the stronghold。
that the enemy has over anxiety and fear in Hong Kong,。
and we take it captive in the Name of Jesus.。
Not in our strength, not in our power,。
but in the power that comes from the Name of Jesus.。
Some trust in horses, some trust in chariots,。
but we will trust in the Name of the Lord.。
And it is Jesus and Jesus alone that can free you.。
So Lord, I pray for every person with their hands open.。
I pray for the releasing of grace and peace。
and liberty and joy and love.。
I want to pray for the opposite,。
outworking of anxiety in the Name of Jesus.。
I want to pray, Lord, for faith to rise。
in the households that are overcome with anxiety.。
I want to pray for workplaces to be released。
from unnecessary stress in the Name of Jesus.。
I want to pray for the manipulation that takes place。
through the use of stress in the workplace.。
And Lord, I want to pray for shalom,。
the true peace that comes in knowing Christ Jesus,。
a peace that comes in knowing the presence of God。
in the midst of fear, the presence of God。
in the midst of our battle with anxiety.。
Father, You and You alone can unravel the ball of strength.。
And Father, I thank You for the liberty that is found,。
the freedom that is found in You.。
What a joy it is to gather together online。
in this room each week.。
May we never take it for granted the power that there is。
in the community of Christ, singing the praises of Jesus.。
Your Word says that You inhabit the praises.。
So thank You, Lord, for inhabiting every moment right now.。
Thank You that You inhabit and dwell in every life right now.。
And we pray for the testimony of freedom from anxiety。
in the Vine Church and in our city, in Jesus' Name.。
Everyone says, amen.。
Amen.。
Let's give the worship team a round of applause.。
I got one thing for you before you sit down.。
One thing, one thing, one thing.。
The person standing next to you right now。
is a unique, loved, beautiful creation of Jesus Christ.。
Would you go and turn to them and say hi,。
and say, wow, you are unique.。
You are amazing.。
I love you.。
You're awesome.。
Never seen you before.。
Wonderful.。
You can have a seat as well.。
Ah.。
Ah, there's no place I'd rather be。
than 11 a.m. on a Sunday with my people.。
Is everybody well?。
- Yes.。
- So good to see you guys.。
Welcome to everybody online once again.。
It's so great to have you joining us。
from across Hong Kong and across the world.。
It is such a privilege to gather in this season。
to worship Jesus together, and welcome to the Vine.。
If this is your first time, we're so glad that you're here.。
My name's Andrew.。
I'm one of the pastors here,。
and it's just great that we get to gather.。
If you are new, we just want to recognize you.。
We're not gonna ask you to do anything that's embarrassing.。
We just wanna ask you to put your hand in the air。
and wave it at me.。
That's just like say, hey, I'm new.。
This is my first time to the Vine.。
Anyone new here in the lower house, upper house?。
Give us a wave.。
Anyone?。
Yes.。
Yes.。
I didn't see any hands.。
Surely, surely somebody's new.。
Now you're like, you're like,。
you're like sinking down in your seat.。
It's like, oh my gosh.。
Well, anyway, welcome if you are new.。
We're glad you're here.。
We have three services on a Sunday, 9, 15, 11, and 2.。
And the Vine is way more than just 90 minutes on a Sunday.。
As amazing as this is, and I love it,。
it's not the totality of what church is about.。
Really, what church is about is community.。
And we experience something of that community。
when we gather like this,。
but actually community happens much more。
when you are known and are known by others。
and when you get to know others.。
And that takes place in a variety of different ways。
at the Vine, through small group communities。
and all of those sort of things that we do.。
So if you're new, after the service,。
we don't have our usual Connect Hub today。
because today's a special Sunday.。
And I'll tell you a bit more about that in a moment.。
But you can come and connect。
with any of our prayer ministers, any of our pastors,。
or you can come downstairs to the concierge downstairs。
and say hi to us, get connected.。
We'd love to welcome you to the Vine and walk with you.。
And we don't want you to be anonymous.。
And if you're online and this is your first time with us,。
welcome as well.。
We're so glad that you're here.。
We don't want you to be anonymous online.。
And we know that that's a very easy thing to do online.。
So be brave, put in the chat box,。
hey, I'm new, this is my name,。
this is where I'm tuning in.。
And our team that are online right now,。
we have a team of pastors。
that are specifically online with you.。
We want them to connect with you.。
So just jump on the chat box, say hi to us.。
We'll say hi back.。
We'll connect with you and we'd love to meet you as well.。
We are on a special Sunday today.。
This is Branches of Hope Sunday.。
We do this once a year.。
It's a chance for you to find out a little bit more。
about the work that we do。
for the most vulnerable and hurting in our society.。
If you've been coming to the Vine for any period of time,。
hopefully you'll know that we believe。
that God's heart for justice。
sits at the very centre of the gospel,。
that we're called to walk in justice,。
God's justice on earth as it is in heaven.。
And we do that throughout our ministries.。
And most importantly,。
we do that through the work of Branches of Hope.。
If you're new to our church,。
Branches of Hope is an NGO。
that was birthed from the Vine Church.。
It sits separately as an NGO,。
but in relationship with the Vine.。
And it's really the justice expression。
of who we are as a church.。
And we serve two groups,。
largely within the work of Branches of Hope,。
two marginalised groups in Hong Kong.。
That's asylum seekers and refugees,。
and those that are either victims。
or survivors of human trafficking.。
And it's our great privilege to serve those two communities.。
And we wanna tell you a little bit more about that.。
You're gonna be hearing their voices.。
Now, as well as today,。
we are also celebrating what we're calling。
Branches of Hope Awareness Month, or BOHAM for short.。
And BOHAM runs from World Refugee Day,。
which is on the 20th of June,。
all the way up to World Day Against the Trafficking。
of People, it's a bit of a mouthful,。
that is on July 30th.。
And in that time, we celebrate BOHAM.。
And we do that by stuff that we do here in the services,。
but also importantly, stuff we do in the community,。
in society around Hong Kong.。
Let me tell you about one of those things that's coming up.。
Starting next week on the 9th of July,。
and running to the 22nd of July,。
is an exhibition of photographs of the clients。
that we serve in Branches of Hope.。
It's a incredible exhibition of photographs,。
and it's gonna be shown at Orca Restaurant.。
Orca Restaurant is on Wyndham Street in Central.。
It's run by two incredible people。
that are part of the Vine Church,。
and they very graciously are willing to host the exhibition.。
So it'll be on their walls during that period.。
I wanna encourage you, go along to the restaurant,。
have a great lunch or a great dinner,。
check out the exhibition,。
and a portion of your food that night。
will be donated to the work of Branches of Hope.。
So that's a wonderful thing.。
That's happening from the 7th,。
sorry, from the 9th to the 22nd of July.。
We wanna really encourage you to check that out.。
Also, right after this service,。
we have a booth just outside here on the second floor.。
If you're in the upper house after the service,。
come down the stairs and you'll be on the second floor.。
If you're here in the lower house,。
just straight out the doors.。
There's a Branches of Hope booth。
that is going to be out there after the service.。
Branches of Hope team will be there.。
They'd love to connect with you, get to know you,。
tell you a little bit more about the work they do.。
And so we wanna encourage you to do that.。
Today is all about you hearing the voices。
of those that are surviving。
some of the toughest conditions in Hong Kong.。
And that's one way to know a little bit more。
about those voices by engaging with our team afterwards.。
Well, every week you guys have been incredibly generous。
standing with us with your offering and your tithes。
and the support work that you do.。
And every time that you tithe into the divine church,。
we then tithe outwardly as well.。
We support organisations like Branches of Hope。
and many others in our cities and also around the world。
in the missions effort and justice effort that we do.。
And I am just so grateful for each one of you。
for the way that you stood with us in such difficult times.。
We're doing digital offering at this time.。
The QR codes are behind me or online in this moment。
so that you can actually give digitally.。
Or if you're here in the room,。
also there's an envelope on your chair.。
If you wanna give cash, credit card, check,。
however you might wanna do that,。
you can just fill out the envelope。
and drop that in the bucket on the way out of the service.。
Let me pray for us as we do our time of offering today.。
Lord, we're grateful that we get to stand。
in this place of doing an offering.。
That Lord, we recognise in doing so,。
it's a prophetic way for us to say。
that our material things do not control us.。
They don't define us.。
We give out of this gratitude that we recognise。
everything comes from you and we're stewards of it.。
And so we give cheerfully, open-handedly,。
knowing that you'll continue to provide for us。
as we continue to provide for others.。
Lord, we pray that you would take。
whatever is given to this church。
and that we would be generous outwardly as well,。
releasing your funds to those that need it the most.。
And we thank you for this cycle of giving。
that is seen in the kingdom of God.。
What a beautiful thing it is.。
We thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, amen.。
Well, today what's really important for us。
is that you hear the stories。
of some of the people that are struggling。
and are on the margins of Hong Kong society,。
but you hear it directly from them.。
You hear their stories.。
And so there's a number of ways。
that we're gonna be doing that for you。
throughout our service today.。
But one of those ways is through film.。
So I wonder if you just turn your attention。
to the screens now.。
And I wanna introduce you to two of the clients。
that we serve in Branches of Hope, Namala and Maggie.。
(gentle music)。
- I had a good job back home.。
I have a hardworking husband and three amazing kids.。
But after an accident that left my husband disabled,。
I became the sole breadwinner of our family.。
The pressure was on me.。
I made the hard decision to leave home。
and I came to Hong Kong to work as a domestic worker。
in hope for a better future for my family.。
I am a single mother and have a strong passion。
to care for my children.。
When I was in my home country,。
I was abused and threatened by my family and close relatives.。
I tried to run away, but they have linkage with the police。
and would be able to trace me down.。
I was rejected from the community and had no place to stay.。
I decided to come to Hong Kong to find a stable。
and peaceful life.。
Later, I became pregnant.。
I am not able to return to my home country。
because if I return, I will face the same abuse。
from relatives who are still threatening me now.。
I arrived in Hong Kong in 2018。
after securing employment with the local family.。
In my first few days, my employee was friendly and kind.。
Unfortunately, her facade quickly faded。
and I realized she was abusive。
and I was being exploited for work.。
After a year and a half, I couldn't take it anymore。
and finally escaped.。
Being alone in the streets, I was scared.。
I didn't know where I was going to stay,。
get food or the medical help I needed,。
let alone find ways to support my family。
who was depending on me.。
I became a non-refoulement claimant in Hong Kong.。
When I became pregnant, I faced rejection.。
My relatives in my home country found out。
and sent threatening messages to me.。
My friends abandoned and insulted me.。
I want to fight for my daughter's status,。
but since I am unable to work, I felt helpless。
and I did not know if anybody would help me and my baby.。
- Those are not easy stories to listen to, are they?。
And I'd like to tell you that those two stories。
are unique to those two individuals,。
but that wouldn't be the case.。
There are many in our city that have similar stories。
of abuse, abandonment, rejection,。
and difficulty in Hong Kong society.。
You know, it's important for us to make space in our lives。
to listen to the voices of those who are on the margins.。
It's all too easy for us to insulate。
and isolate ourselves from those voices.。
But when we do hear those voices,。
yes, it's hard to hear the stories.。
Yes, it might stir emotions in us,。
but ultimately it is a way of honouring them。
as people who are made in the image of God.。
And what we want to do today。
is we want to create space for you。
to be able to hear the stories。
of those who are vulnerable in Hong Kong.。
That's why the theme that we have。
for Branches of Hope Sunday this year。
is our voices, our stories.。
And while you're going to hear a little bit from me now,。
and then you're going to hear a little bit。
from some of the staff at Branches of Hope,。
ultimately what we hope and pray you'll hear today。
is the voices of people like Namala and Maggie。
sharing their story so that you might be changed.。
And what we pray you hear when you listen to their stories。
is yes, we hear their challenges, hear their suffering,。
hear what it is that they're going through,。
but ultimately you would hear something else,。
that you would actually hear their unwavering hope。
that they have in Jesus Christ.。
This idea of listening to the stories of the vulnerable。
and the broken amongst us is important。
to the work of Branches of Hope and of the Vine。
because it is essentially first and foremost,。
the work of God.。
God listens to those who are broken and on the margins.。
And there are many examples in scripture。
of God reaching out and listening to the voices。
of those who are desperate.。
But today I wanted to take us。
to one particular passage in scripture。
to help frame everything that we wanna talk about today.。
It's the passage found in Genesis 19 to 21,。
and it's the story of two individuals, Ishmael and Hagar.。
And let me give you just a little bit of context。
before I open the passage.。
Hagar is an Egyptian slave。
who is working in the home of Abraham and Sarah.。
Now, Sarah, at this point in the story。
is incredibly frustrated and bitter at God.。
And she's frustrated at God。
because she believes that God is to blame。
for the fact that her and Abraham are barren.。
Some years before, God had come to Abraham。
and said to Abraham,。
"You're gonna be a father of many nations."。
But many years later, Abraham and Sarah。
are still not able to have their own children.。
And Sarah blames God for this reality.。
She knows that God has given a promise,。
but she hasn't seen God come through on that promise.。
So Sarah does what perhaps many of us might do。
in that circumstance, believe the promise,。
but then bring it and put it into our own hands.。
She decides her own human effort。
can bring about the promises of God.。
And trust me, that's always a dangerous thing to think.。
But what Sarah does is she comes up with a plan.。
She says to Abraham,。
"Hey, Abraham, why don't you take Hagar to be your wife?"。
In those days, it was legal to marry more than one woman.。
She says, "Take Hagar to be your wife.。
You can then sleep together, produce a child,。
and then that child will be our heir and the promise of God."。
Well, the story tells us that that's what happened.。
And Hagar had no choice in this matter.。
Not only is she a slave being forced to work in their home,。
she's now forced into the slavery of marriage。
with someone she doesn't love.。
Abraham and Hagar sleep together and produce a child.。
And when that child comes forth into the world,。
God speaks to Hagar over her son.。
And he says to Hagar,。
"I want you to name your son a specific name.。
You are to give him the name Ishmael."。
Ishmael in Hebrew means God hears.。
I want you just to stop with that for a second。
and remember that.。
Ishmael means God hears.。
And that will become the main story。
of the whole of Ishmael's life.。
Well, not surprisingly,。
Sarah finds herself jealous and bitter at Hagar and Abraham。
for the fact that they have this child。
in their life called Ishmael.。
And her plan that she thought was a good one。
turned out to be incredibly painful and bitter for her.。
So she comes with a new plan to Abraham.。
And she says to Abraham,。
"I want you to get rid of Hagar and Ishmael.。
I want you to send them out,。
banish them from the Israel nation,。
send them out into the deserts of Beersheba."。
Well, this greatly distressed Abraham。
because the scriptures tell us。
that Abraham loved his son, Ishmael, genuinely loved him.。
And it tore him apart that he would have to send Ishmael away.。
But God shows up to Abraham and says,。
"Hey, Abraham, just relax。
'cause my hand is upon Ishmael's life。
and I will protect him.。
I will look after him.。
And he will actually become the father of many nations.。
A great nation will come from him."。
So Abraham, off the back of his obedience to God,。
even though he didn't wanna do it,。
puts supplies together。
and begins to send Hagar and Ishmael on their way.。
Let's pick up the story from that very point.。
This is Genesis 21, starting in verse 14.。
"Early the next morning, Abraham took some food。
and a skin of water and gave them to Hagar.。
He set them on her shoulders。
and then sent her off with the boy.。
She went on her way and wandered in the desert of Beersheba.。
When the water in the skin was gone,。
she put the boy under one of the bushes.。
Then she went off and sat down nearby,。
about a bow shot away, for she thought to herself,。
'I cannot watch the boy die.'。
And as she sat there nearby, she began to sob."。
What an incredibly disastrous situation this is for Hagar.。
I mean, that's putting it mildly.。
Not only has she been enslaved,。
not only has she been forced into marriage,。
but now she's been sent out and banished from a community.。
She's sent out with minimal supplies。
and not surprisingly, those supplies ran out.。
And she realizes that she cannot,。
because she loves her child so much,。
she cannot bear the suffering of watching him die,。
of hearing him cry out.。
And so she places her son under a bush。
and she goes about, the scriptures say, a bow shot away.。
A bow shot away is about 100 to 150 yards away.。
She's not so far away。
that she feels like she's abandoned her son,。
but she's far enough away that she cannot hear his cries.。
That's really important.。
She's far enough away。
so that she can't hear the sobbing of her child,。
so that doesn't bring distress upon her.。
And then as she's sitting this bow shot away,。
the scriptures say she does something.。
In the English translation,。
the English translation is not very good.。
The English translation says she sobbed.。
Sobbing for us sounds like.。
In the Hebrew, the word means to wail.。
It means to cry out.。
It means to scream.。
It's the same word that's translated gnashing of teeth。
in other parts of scripture.。
It's the word that's used to describe old Israelites。
as they mourned in the Old Testament,。
as they screamed and made noises before the Lord.。
The idea of this Hebrew word。
was actually to scream out against injustice.。
So the picture here is of Hagar,。
a bow shot away from the cries of her son,。
so she can't hear those cries,。
and she's making an awful noise before the Lord.。
She's screaming out.。
She's probably saying stuff like,。
"Why is this happening to me?。
Why has my whole life been like this?。
Why have you taken my only son from me?。
Why are we gonna die in this desert?"。
And she's screaming and wailing and crying。
and making the loudest noise she could ever make.。
And the question is, does God hear and respond?。
Have a look at verse 17.。
"God heard the boy crying,。
and the angel of God called to Hagar from heaven。
and said to her, 'What is the matter, Hagar?。
Do not be afraid.。
Don't be anxious.。
Let's unravel the ball of string.'。
For God has heard the boy crying as he lies there.。
Lift the boy up and take him by the hand,。
for I will now make him into a great nation."。
I love what it says here.。
Notice what it says here.。
It says, "God heard the boy crying."。
Do you catch it?。
Hagar is making an awful noise before the Lord.。
She's screaming and shouting and billowing。
in the middle of the desert.。
She's drowning out the cries of her son。
with the loudest cries she could ever have before God.。
And God shows up and he goes, "I've heard the boy crying."。
In other words, I hear the voice。
of the one who cannot fight for himself.。
The voice of the one who's in the bushes.。
The voice who has no ability to fight for himself.。
And it's not that God didn't hear Hagar's cries。
'cause he responds to Hagar.。
It's not that he didn't care for her.。
He's not ignoring her,。
but he's trying to teach Hagar something.。
And I think the global church, something for all of history。
that God hears and responds to the voices。
that so often everybody else ignores.。
That's the God that we have.。
That's the God that we serve.。
In the amount of noise that Hagar was making,。
God shows up and goes, "I haven't forgotten your son, Ishmael."。
In other words, God proves Ishmael's name.。
I hear him.。
I hear him.。
Even amongst all the other noise that is happening,。
I hear him.。
You need to know here in Hong Kong,。
there's a lot of noise happening all the time.。
There's a lot of sound that reverberates around our city.。
But the reason why we do the work that we do。
at Branches of Hope is because God hears.。
He hears the soft, subtle cry of the marginalized,。
the oppressed, the hurting, and the vulnerable.。
And when we and our ears are so blocked。
by the noise of materialism, the noise of politics,。
the noise of making money, the noise of career,。
the noise of really good things。
that can happen in our lives,。
God doesn't stop hearing the poor.。
He doesn't stop hearing it.。
And the reality is that I think each one of us,。
myself included, can always end up living a bow shot away。
from the cries of the Ishmaels of our city.。
And I think we do this because it's not comfortable。
to hear those cries.。
It wasn't comfortable for us to watch that video.。
It's not always comfortable for us to sit。
in the reality of the pain and the brokenness of others.。
Perhaps we stay a bow shot away in Hong Kong。
because we don't know how to respond.。
We don't know what it is that we can do to help.。
We think perhaps we're gonna make more trouble。
than actually help.。
Or maybe we stay a bow shot away because let's face it,。
the world is a pretty tough place right now.。
There's a lot of darkness in the world.。
There's a lot of bad news, Andrew.。
I don't wanna come to church。
and hear any more bad news, Andrew.。
There's a lot of reasons I think why we isolate ourselves。
and insulate ourselves, why we like Hagar stay a bow shot。
away from the cries of the vulnerable and hurting.。
And that's why today we wanna close that distance。
a little bit for you.。
That's why today we wanna make sure you hear some。
of the cries and the voices of those that we serve。
at Branches of Hope.。
And that's why we do what we do.。
'Cause we believe that there are many Ishmaels。
still in this city.。
That because God hears, we should also hear.。
And to help you close that distance a little bit。
and to help you understand a bit more about the stories。
of those that we serve through Branches of Hope.。
It's my great privilege today to introduce to you。
Alex Forte, who is the Executive Director。
of Branches of Hope.。
Can we give Alex a round of applause?。
(audience applauding)。
- Thank you, Andrew.。
Good morning.。
Hello, everybody.。
It's a privilege to stand out here in front of you all.。
You'll notice that I come with my little tablet。
because I'm not as gifted as Andrew.。
So I've got, I have something to hold on to。
and remind me what I actually wanna tell you all.。
So yeah, it's a huge blessing and privilege。
to be standing here in front of you all.。
My wife and I, we've been coming to the Divine Church。
for a number of years now.。
And I would never have foreseen a set of circumstances。
where I would get to stand in this very holy place。
in front of all of you and speak to you on a Sunday.。
But the Lord works in mysterious ways, so here I am.。
I joined Branches of Hope, as Andrew mentioned,。
as Executive Director not so long ago,。
just back in April.。
But I've known Branches of Hope for a couple of years now.。
In fact, I was aware of Branches of Hope。
even before it became Branches of Hope。
when it was still Vine Community Services.。
And so I was aware of that rebranding process。
and I've watched that organization grow。
from strength to strength over the years.。
So I'm incredibly honored and humbled。
to be trusted with the stewardship。
of this amazing organization.。
And I feel no pressure at all.。
(audience laughing)。
In fact, this is actually a bit of a perfect moment,。
I think, in God's perfect timing。
that I get to step into this role.。
I feel that from a sort of professional,。
from a professional view, from a personal view,。
from a spiritual view, all things have aligned。
to allow me to really step into this。
and do this work with full confidence.。
Professionally, I come after having spent。
the better part of the last decade。
working in humanitarian aid in countries。
like Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan.。
So I feel I have a bit of experience。
that I hope I can apply to Branches of Hope。
and continue this growth of the organization.。
On a spiritual level, I've been blessed。
to grow in faith, so I feel I'm equipped。
to maintain that special spiritual bond。
that connects the vine and Branches of Hope.。
And on a personal note, I recently became dad。
to the most adorable four-month-old,。
so I have no rush to be in any war zones anytime soon.。
(audience laughing)。
So now you know a little bit more about me。
and why I'm representing Branches of Hope today,。
so we can turn our attention a little bit。
to why we're even talking about Branches of Hope today.。
Andrew already alluded to it a little bit.。
We are celebrating Branches of Hope Sunday today,。
which is part of our larger effort this month。
of Branches of Hope Awareness Month, BOHAM.。
We're very, very excited.。
There's a bunch of activities going on,。
and I encourage you to come talk。
to our colleagues outside at the booth。
to get the details on those.。
Fundamentally, though, apart from raising awareness。
for our organization and the work that we do,。
what we are trying to do this month。
is to really focus on the stories of our clients,。
and that's why the motto of BOHAM。
is Our Voices, Our Stories.。
Andrew introduced the story of Hagar and Ishmael。
from chapter 21 of Genesis,。
and demonstrated how God hears all,。
even the smallest muted voices in our society,。
and how that is a challenge to us。
to really come and become active,。
to do God's work, to do good.。
On reflecting on the passage,。
I was also reminded a little bit。
of how Hagar, in many ways, personifies the injustices。
faced by the clients that are served。
through branches of FOBE。
by both our STOP and ROAD programs.。
Like the clients who are served by STOP,。
Hagar is a slave,。
the most vile form of labor exploitation imaginable.。
And like the clients that are served by ROAD,。
she has been made a refugee.。
She's been kicked out of her community.。
She's been made to fled,。
not by her own choice, but by circumstance.。
I think the significance of what that means。
of the suffering that that entails,。
the challenges that comes with that。
was also demonstrated in the video that we saw earlier.。
And so, at Branches of Hope,。
when we see people like this on a daily basis,。
what we want to achieve for them,。
and it's captured in the slogan of our organization,。
is dignity, justice, and hope.。
We try to achieve this for our clients。
through three distinct service pillars,。
caring for them, empowering them,。
and driving social change。
for the better of not just the marginalized,。
but for society as a whole.。
And so we do our best every day.。
We do what we can to hear those voices。
and to empower them to tell their stories.。
Now, to help me tell the stories of Maggie Namala,。
who we briefly saw already at the beginning of,。
in the video, I'd like to welcome Michelle Wong,。
our program manager from STOP,。
and Roy Njoaba, the head of the ROAD program.。
Please give them a round of applause.。
(audience applauding)。
Welcome, Michelle, and welcome, Roy.。
- Thank you, Alex.。
Hello, nice to be here.。
Hello, everyone.。
You guys doing good today?。
- Yeah.。
- I didn't hear that.。
You guys doing good?。
- Yeah.。
- All right, I love that.。
- Yeah, it's always a pleasure to be here.。
Hi, everyone.。
So Michelle and Roy obviously have been working with ROAD。
and STOP for much, much longer than I've come on board.。
In fact, Roy is the longest serving staff member。
at Branches of Hope.。
Isn't that right, Roy?。
- Yes, you're right.。
I've been in Branch of Hope for seven and a half years.。
Actually, tomorrow may be exactly seven and a half years.。
- Wow, that's amazing.。
Let's give him a round of applause.。
(audience applauding)。
So as we just said,。
we're kicking off this really exciting month,。
Bohem, Branches of Hope Awareness Month.。
And the motto of this whole month is our voices, our stories.。
We already saw a little bit about the kind of clients。
that we serve through STOP and through ROAD.。
But before we return to the stories of Maggie and Amala,。
maybe just for everybody's benefit,。
we could cover what exactly STOP and ROAD do.。
So Michelle, why don't you start with STOP?。
- Sure, so STOP means Stop Trafficking of People.。
So we launched a Branch of Support Program in 2014.。
Our mission is to end human trafficking。
in and through Hong Kong.。
So in order to do so,。
we provide protection for the survivors。
of human trafficking.。
We educate a vulnerable community。
to prevent human trafficking from happening.。
And we conduct research, collect evidence。
to build capacity for the society to respond to the issue.。
So you may wonder, what is human trafficking?。
Is that still happening in Hong Kong?。
Well, human trafficking is extreme form。
of human rights violation for the purpose of exploitation.。
So obviously, if someone is forced to work。
under violent circumstances, it is human trafficking.。
But human trafficking also involve different means。
in order to do so.。
For example, deception and coercion.。
For example, using that to coerce someone to work,。
that bondage is a form of human trafficking.。
Deceiving the condition of work is also a common tactics.。
So yes, human trafficking does still exist in Hong Kong,。
and our team is fighting for that every day.。
- Thank you for that, Michelle.。
I'm pretty sure that there might be a number of you。
who are actually quite shocked to hear。
that this form of labor exploitation。
and the various degrees actually happens every day。
right under our noses in our own society.。
But that is unfortunately the reality of the situation.。
Roy, let's jump over to ROAD.。
What is it that ROAD does exactly?。
- ROAD actually stands for。
Refugee Opportunity and Development.。
So if you hear the definition of ROAD,。
you know exactly what we are doing.。
To give opportunity and to develop refugees.。
And by doing that, we equip them with knowledge,。
we educate them, and we empower them for their future。
so that they can become contributors to our society.。
We serve refugees from all over the world,。
from Africa, Middle East, South Asia,。
some from Europe, and also from South America.。
And also, the ROAD program actually。
born out of the VINESH ministry.。
We call it the Refugee Ministry back in 2000,。
and I don't forget when, but many years ago.。
And so, really, from ROAD, from this Refugee Ministry,。
it grew up to be a branch of hope that we have today.。
- Okay, and so when we're talking about refugees,。
who exactly is a refugee?。
What would be the definition there?。
- Great, refugees and asylum seekers,。
it's a common word that we use.。
But in Hong Kong, you hear a word like non-reformer claimant.。
And so I will break down these three definitions。
for you to understand these different categories。
of people who are seeking protection in Hong Kong.。
Refugees and asylum seekers are under the mandate of UNHCR。
because this falls under the 1951 Geneva Convention.。
Non-reformer claimants are under the CAT Convention,。
which is the 1984 Geneva Convention that protects people。
not to be returned to their home country.。
So reformer means return to their home country.。
Now, Hong Kong government is a signatory。
of the CAT Convention and not a signatory。
of the Geneva 1951 Convention.。
So in Hong Kong, we basically have non-reformer claimants。
and not asylum seekers and refugees.。
So actually in Hong Kong, we have about 250 refugees。
under the UNHCR Convention,。
and we have over 13,000 non-reformer claimants。
under the government of Hong Kong.。
So we noticed that many people often say。
refugee and asylum seekers by mixing them up。
with non-reformer claimant,。
but actually we mostly have non-reformer claimant。
in Hong Kong.。
Now, for non-reformer claimant,。
it doesn't matter how you come to Hong Kong.。
Anyone can be a non-reformer claimant。
if you cannot go back to your country.。
So non-reformer claimant stop the government。
not to send you back to a place。
that you will be in danger.。
But for refugee, it's defined that it's somebody。
who left his home country because of persecution.。
So the power is on the people to prove themselves。
that, look, I left my country because of war and violence.。
But for non-reformer claimant,。
it gives the government the power。
not to send anybody back to where they will face persecution.。
So that's how non-reformer claimant is.。
So you hear me use the word non-reformer claimant。
for the discussion,。
but know that I refer to refugees。
and asylum seekers as well.。
- I think that's a very important distinction to make.。
Ultimately, there's various levels of protection。
that a country can give to people。
fleeing any number of circumstances.。
And Hong Kong is the most basic one.。
Hong Kong basically says,。
we're not gonna send you back into danger,。
but you can't stay here either.。
So ultimately, that's where that distinction comes from.。
I think it's clear from what Michelle and Roy。
have just shared that both Stop and Road。
work with some of the most marginalized individuals。
in our community.。
In a sense, we work with many of the Ishmaels。
of our society.。
Now, before we come back to Maggie Nirmala,。
can you maybe please just explain。
how exactly do Road and Stop give a voice to our clients?。
Is there a unified philosophy between the two programs,。
a unified approach,。
or do you both do very different things?。
Roy?。
- Yes, as you noticed,。
Stop served victim of human trafficking。
and Road, we serve refugee and asylum seekers.。
These are two distinct group of people.。
But however, our approach,。
we have a unified approach。
in serving this marginalized group of people.。
And we place approach on the three pillars,。
which is care, empowerment, and social reform.。
You will hear in our discussion。
about these three pillars in a moment.。
- Yeah, exactly.。
I mean, this unified approach。
is also reflected in our organizational slogan,。
dignity, justice, and hope.。
And these are the crucial elements。
for us to restore our clients' voices.。
- Right.。
And I mentioned this before earlier, right?。
The slogan that we have at Branches of Hope。
is ultimately a reflection of the outcome。
that we hope to achieve。
through these three pillars of service.。
So maybe, Roy, can you explain how that slogan。
and those three pillars of service,。
how are they related?。
- Yes, correct.。
When you care for somebody, you restore hope.。
So care, restore hope.。
Now you put somebody in a community。
where they can have people around them to care for them,。
and that's how their hope is being restored.。
Secondly, empowerment, restore dignity.。
When you empower somebody, they become self-sufficient.。
They don't have to depend on handouts。
and charity donation.。
They can care for themselves.。
That is how dignity comes about.。
And thirdly, when you, social reform restored justice.。
The more you reform the society,。
reform people's mindset about what is happening in society,。
that is how they start to fight for justice,。
and that's how justice is being restored。
for the marginalized.。
- Thank you for that.。
I think that's a very powerful truth。
to kind of reflect on and soak in.。
Care restores hope.。
Empowerment restores dignity.。
And social reform restores justice.。
And that's not just for the clients that we serve,。
whether it's refugees or victims of trafficking.。
That applies to any number of marginalized。
and disenfranchised people in our society。
and societies around the world.。
Ultimately, it's that empowerment, that social reform,。
that care that creates, again, dignity, justice, and hope.。
And dignity, justice, and hope are what, in turn,。
give people a voice to speak up。
and be able to tell their stories.。
I think it's also worth reflecting for a moment。
that it really is a reflection also of our Christian duties。
to care for others, to empower others,。
and ultimately also to work together to reduce,。
if not eliminate even, all forms of marginalization。
in our societies.。
I think the work that we do at Branches of Hope。
is also a reflection of our roots within the vine。
that we are trying very much to do those things,。
albeit focused on refugees and victims of trafficking.。
So let's return now to the stories of Nimala and Maggie。
and see how those three pillars of service。
apply to their specific cases.。
Michelle, let's start with Nimala.。
- Sure.。
Our team is so proud of Nimala.。
I mean, it's so incredible to witness her transformation.。
One year ago, when we first met Nimala,。
she was anxious and scared.。
Usually people who experience trauma incidents,。
these are very common response to the situations.。
So all they want, all they need at that moment。
is to feel safe again without any doubts from others.。
So our team immediately admit Nimala to our care program.。
We are able to provide her with basic survival needs,。
such as food, medical support, and shelter.。
So these are not just tangible support,。
but as Nimala would said, our assistance and our presence。
help her to feel mentally calm again.。
I remember a few months ago。
when she tested COVID positive, like a lot of us did,。
the first one she called was not her husband,。
not her children, but our caseworker.。
So I can deeply feel that we have such a deep bond。
with our clients that we are actually。
the only support system in Hong Kong for our clients.。
And we walk through a lot of difficulties together.。
That's why we bond as a community.。
Like other of our clients,。
Nimala also seek remedy through legal system.。
Through our empowerment program,。
we make sure that our clients knows about their rights。
and make informed decision。
in the process of accessing justice.。
So in the process, Nimala comes to realize。
that her legal action is not just to fight for herself,。
but it's for the sake of the community.。
And most important is for the sake of justice.。
And she start to become, want to become an agent of change.。
She wants to become a helping hands for others。
and she go outside and equip others with knowledge。
of what to do and who to contact when abuse happens.。
So right now on Sundays,。
we have our team going out on the street,。
talking to migrant workers,。
equip them their knowledge of building friendship。
in order to prevent human trafficking from happening.。
Through her story of recovery, I see hope.。
And I see that social change is possible.。
These stories of our clients ultimately。
also inform our evidence-based advocacy.。
So their story enable us to talk。
to different stakeholders about the issue.。
In fact, it's her bravery of sharing the story with us today。
enable us to sit here together。
and then share the cause here with you and you here.。
And their story also help us to provide recommendation。
for the government and achieve social change.。
- Okay, thank you very much for that.。
So it really, it's a longer process, right?。
Like the care that's provided。
leads ultimately to the empowerment。
and the empowerment also altogether enforces。
the good work that we do on a policy level as well.。
Thank you for sharing that.。
I think also our appreciation, of course, to Nimala。
for her courage in sharing that story.。
Roy, turning now to Maggie,。
how exactly then did the three pillars of service。
that we employ at Branches of Hope,。
how did that help in her case?。
- Right, when Maggie came to us,。
Maggie was vulnerable with her daughter。
and she was really confused and feel rejected。
by the community that she was once into.。
So when she came to us,。
the first thing we did was to listen to her story,。
listen to her carefully.。
You know, at the road team,。
they are very specialized in listening.。
Those guys, they know how to listen very carefully.。
You know, I got Cherry, Chris, you know, Green and Sherry.。
They are experts in listening to the refugee story.。
They spend hours and time just listening。
because that is very important to listen to。
when you want to care for somebody.。
The second thing is to provide basic assistance。
because once you listen carefully,。
you know exactly what they're looking for.。
Like for example, in the story of Hagar and the son today,。
God listened first and then he provide help。
and then he empowered the child by saying。
that you will become valid tomorrow.。
Now, when we listen to Maggie's story,。
we next thing to do is to put her into a community.。
The last thing you want to do。
to somebody who is vulnerable is to isolate them.。
So at the road program,。
we ensure that our refugees and asylum seekers。
are in good community where they can care for one another。
and they can love and care and support each other.。
So we put Maggie into what we call our latest group.。
So Maggie was so happy when she came.。
After being rejected by the community,。
he came to Branches of Hope and found a community.。
And one day he said this to us,。
"When I am with the ladies, I feel loved and cared."。
That is what we want to hear。
from our refugee and asylum seekers.。
Then from there, we start to empower Maggie。
to become a leader in her own community.。
We send her into leadership training programs。
and we ensure that Maggie is able to do something。
for herself as she goes out to serve the local community.。
Now we can also support people directly and indirectly.。
A way to empower somebody indirectly。
is to empower somebody next to them.。
If you look in the story of Hager, right,。
God said, "I hear the cry of your son."。
He empowered the son by doing that,。
he also empowered the mother.。
So for us, this approach, we empowered Maggie's daughter。
by sending her to kindergarten,。
thanks to our kindergarten program.。
And Maggie was so happy to see her child being empowered,。
know that her child got a future.。
By empowering her child and Maggie together,。
both of them were so happy。
that Maggie said this to us one day,。
"Now I have peace of mind。
"because my kids can go to school.。
"This allows me to fight for her right."。
Isn't that amazing?。
You empower the kids, but you give the mom power。
to fight for her right.。
And that is where social reforms comes in.。
Social reform comes when we stand up。
to fight for the right of the people,。
not just us fighting,。
we have to fight together with the marginalized.。
And then we change the whole society mindset。
about those who are marginalized in our city.。
- Thank you for sharing that, Roy.。
I think it's also really important。
to come back to what you were just saying.。
Care is not only about material goods,。
care is also about spiritual needs,。
it's about emotional needs,。
it's about being heard as a person.。
So thank you for pointing that out as well.。
And also our appreciation to Maggie for her courage。
in sharing that story today.。
Let's have a round of applause for Maggie and Amala.。
(audience applauding)。
Now, I'm sure there's many of you here today。
who after listening to these stories。
are probably inspired and feel a bit of passion。
to become involved yourselves.。
And therefore might be asking yourself。
what might be the best way to do that?。
How can I become a voice for the marginalized?。
If you are the kind of person。
who doesn't just want to say that bow shot away,。
if you want to draw near, if you want to listen,。
I think my colleagues here can give you a couple pointers。
on how to do that.。
So, Michelle and Roy, how can people,。
if they feel led by the spirit,。
how can they become involved in telling those stories?。
Michelle, why don't we start with your pointers?。
- Sure.。
I believe that everyone has a place in the society。
to bring positive impact.。
So the first thing that you can do。
is that you can volunteer with us.。
If you have any special talents that you would love to share。
come to contact us, go to talk to our staff outside.。
Having the power to control our life。
is what dignity is all about.。
So at Branches of Hope, we value the self-agency。
for the marginalized community.。
As Roy said, empowerment brings dignity.。
So you can offer your talents to our clients.。
For the case in point,。
the dress that I'm wearing today。
is made by one of our clients.。
So they are already talented enough,。
but you can join us to tell them。
that the better future is possible.。
And secondly, you all have your own voice.。
You all have your own voice and power to share.。
So you can be our advocate,。
you can become the influencer for us.。
So there is a very convenient opportunities here.。
So if you tune into Branches of Hope's social media page,。
you will find that on 30th of July,。
it would be a World Day Against Trafficking.。
We launched a campaign called Give Survivors a Voice.。
You can join our campaign and become the influencer。
to bring the positive change to the world.。
And lastly, of course,。
if you don't have the time to contribute or to give to us,。
then you can donate to us.。
It's always welcome, right?。
And so you can organize a fundraiser,。
you can donate to our program to support us。
so that we are able to support the vulnerable.。
- Thank you very much for that, Michelle.。
So I think what you've touched upon are volunteering。
and obviously using our own platforms。
as a means for raising awareness。
and spreading knowledge about these things,。
and of course, fundraising.。
Roy, do you have any points you'd like to add to that?。
- Of course, one of the point is to donate, right?。
You know, we need money to run our ministries and our work.。
And I also want you to invite。
to be an agent of inclusion,。
which means you have to try to open up your space。
to include refugees into your circle.。
And how does that happen?。
Number one, pray.。
You know, as Christians,。
we have to pray before we take any step.。
So the more you pray for the refugees。
and victim of human trafficking,。
you come closer to them.。
And secondly, is to invite them, is to get to know them.。
Now, when you pray to them, you got to know them,。
know their stories and their background.。
And when you know them,。
you want to advocate on their behalf。
by sharing this with other people around you.。
Don't go to the street to fight for your right,。
but you can share it with your neighbor,。
your colleague in the office,。
as well as somebody that you do business with.。
After that business deal, you can go like,。
"Hey, look, I want to tell something about refugees。
and asylum seekers in Hong Kong."。
That would be very beautiful.。
And with that together,。
we can make refugee voice heard in this city.。
- Perfect.。
Thank you very much, Roy.。
I think, you know, there's probably a deep impression。
that what you've shared today has left on many of those。
who have joined us today.。
And I really like this idea。
of becoming an agent of inclusion.。
I hope this list that you guys see up on the slide,。
that there's something there for everybody,。
and that even the smallest bit of action。
will certainly, you know,。
help us serve the greater good in this sense.。
Please, let's have another round of applause。
for our amazing colleagues, Roy and Michelle.。
(audience applauding)。
And so with that,。
we would love to return to the stories of Maggie and Amala。
and see how they turned out.。
- Without a job and a home,。
I managed to receive basic support from organizations,。
including Branches of Hope.。
More importantly, the team assisted me。
with my medical needs。
and was there when I needed somebody to talk to.。
They also provided workshops and activities。
that helped equip me with the confidence。
and knowledge for the future.。
- There's so many expenses that come with raising a child,。
and it's especially difficult。
when you're a non-refoulement claimant。
and not allowed to work.。
But with Branches of Hope's assistance,。
my daughter's educational needs are met,。
and we receive assistance with food and other necessities.。
I was introduced to a ladies' group。
and found a community where I feel like I belong to.。
We share the same struggles。
and care for each other like a big family.。
- Receiving help from STOP and Branches of Hope。
was important because their assistance。
and their presence helped me feel more mentally calm.。
It helped having somebody to talk to。
so I can process my experiences。
and make me feel heard and understood.。
Having a calm mind, along with the help and compassion。
I have received, empowered me to help other people。
who are facing similar situations,。
especially those who are experiencing physical abuse.。
I can direct them to the authorities and organizations。
who can assist them.。
During the pandemic, I was able to help。
contact organizations for supplies。
and helping others find medical assistance.。
- Because of the hardships that I've experienced,。
the community I've developed, and my faith's teachings,。
I've been very passionate about helping the less fortunate.。
So for example, during the pandemic,。
I went out into my neighborhood streets。
and together with my daughter and community,。
we shared meals with the homeless people。
and prayed with them.。
- In the future, I want to become a helping hand。
for people in need, especially those who are applying。
to be migrant domestic workers overseas.。
I want to equip them with the necessary knowledge。
of what to do and who to contact。
in the event that abuse happens.。
- My hope for the future is just to live a peaceful life.。
But more importantly, I hope that my daughter。
will be treated with dignity and respect。
and receive the proper status in Hong Kong that she deserves.。
(audience applauding)。
- You know, even though I work for Branches of Hope,。
the stories of our clients, you know,。
hearing their voices never ceases to amaze me.。
And there are many stories like this one.。
I truly hope that as we embark on this。
Branches of Hope Awareness Month,。
that you too will be moved by the stories of those we serve.。
Not just today, not just this month, but always.。
There are many thousands of Maggies and Imalas。
in our home Kong and many millions of Ishmaels worldwide.。
So may I once again invite you all to be inspired。
by Genesis chapter 21 and become agents of inclusion.。
Let's not stay a bow shot away.。
Instead, let's draw near, let's listen,。
let's give that life-giving water.。
Whether it is by donating or organizing fundraisers,。
by spreading the word in your networks,。
by volunteering your time and your expertise,。
by befriending those we serve and becoming their advocates,。
by being ferocious prayer warriors, or all of the above.。
We value your contribution, but more importantly,。
our clients value your contributions.。
Please don't hesitate to come and talk to my colleagues。
at our booth outside after the service,。
and feel free to come seek us out with your questions,。
with your ideas and your support.。
Thank you.。
- Wonderful.。
One of the best ways that we could finish our service today。
is by doing something that means so much。
to us as a community.。
When we get to celebrate one of our asylum seekers。
and refugees who are actually able to be welcomed。
by a new country overseas.。
And you know, this happens from time to time,。
and it's happened for one of our dear families recently.。
They're leaving tomorrow to go to Canada,。
to be resettled there.。
And we thought the best way to finish our service。
is to pray for them, and just to have their story heard。
as we close our time.。
And I'm gonna invite Roy back to lead us in that time.。
And I wonder whether we would all just stand together。
as we do this.。
- Let me invite Godan and your family,。
please come forward, just join us on the stage.。
Godan have really been with us for a very long time,。
for almost seven years.。
And during that time, she will serve as champions。
in all Sunday services, she was in the Arise Fellowship,。
attended our Bible school,。
volunteered in Mawa Easter Egg Hunt,。
and also joined a tribe, a group here at the Vine.。
Now they're about to leave, please come this way.。
And Godan, I want to just ask Godan to share。
one or two words with the congregation。
of how God have guided her in Hong Kong.。
- Good morning, everyone.。
I really thanks God this morning for this opportunity.。
As the word today from our pastor,。
I'm always surprised with God.。
Because the word of today really concern our life in Hong Kong.。
I will not forget first time in this church, Vine Church,。
in that corner, that corner you see there,。
I always cry there.。
When I, first time, and always,。
when I'm in this church, I was just crying.。
God hear and respond.。
Today I proclaim and I thanks God because He responded.。
And He saw my tears.。
And really, I feel just, I can cry again because of...。
I thanks everyone, I thanks the Vine Church was my home,。
I can say, because you really supported us,。
spiritually, financially, and emotionally.。
Thank you so much.。
Today I'm saying goodbye because tomorrow。
we need to leave the country.。
And I will say, just keep this heart。
and this way to support。
and be a part of God.。
Thank you so much. - Yeah.。
(audience applauding)。
- That was beautiful, Gordance.。
So let us pray for this family as they go.。
Gordance actually send a request prayer for us,。
is for a smooth transition into the new place.。
Pray for strength and wisdom to deal with cultural shock,。
a good friends and community over in Canada,。
and also peace during this transition.。
That was her prayer request that she sent to us.。
So all of you stretch your hands towards Gordance。
and just pray into your heart for about a minute。
and I will wrap it up with a round of prayer.。
- Thank you, Jesus, come on, Jesus.。
(soft music)。
- Dear Lord, we join our voices with the angels in heaven。
and lay our hands on this family of Gordance,。
as they go and hear it.。
We pray, Almighty God, that you will send your angels。
concerning you to guide them on their ways.。
We pray that God will cover you with his feather。
and under his wings you will find refuge.。
We trust you in your shield, O God, and armor.。
You do not need to fear terror of night。
or arrow that flay during the day,。
for God is your hiding place.。
He will protect you from trouble,。
he will surround you with songs of victory.。
The Lord says, "I will guide you along。
the best path of your life.。
I will advise you and watch over you."。
May the Lord keep you from all harm,。
God, us and your family, and watch over your life.。
May the Lord keep watching over you as you come。
and as you go, both now and forever.。
We pray this in Jesus' mighty name, come, we all say.。
- Amen. - Amen.。
- Amen.。
(congregation applauding)。
- Bless you, A.。
Bless you, B.A., bless you guys, bless you guys.。
All right, I know we've gone a little bit long,。
but I wanna do one more thing for you.。
Is that okay?。
Oh, tough, we're gonna do it anyway.。
It says at the end of the story,。
when Hagar has had this amazing moment with God,。
and God says, "I hear your son," verse 19,。
it says, "God then opened her eyes."。
Say that again, "God opened her eyes。
so she could see a well of water.。
So she went there, filled her skim of water,。
and gave the boy a drink."。
My prayer for you is that God would open your eyes.。
I pray that He would open the ears of your hearts。
so you would hear the vulnerable and the marginalised。
that would not stay a bow shot away.。
Let me pray for us.。
Father, we thank You so much。
that we get to do this together.。
Thank You so much for the work of Branches of Hope,。
but more importantly, the work of Your Spirit.。
The work of Your Spirit,。
that it's a work in every person here for Your glory.。
We thank You for this.。
In Jesus' name.。
