Hello, everybody.。
Yes, we have been listening to the story of Joseph.。
So many people say that you can choose your friends, but you can't choose your family.。
But actually, God can do that.。
And he did.。
He intentionally selected his own family from the very beginning.。
And through his divine providence, he guided this family to bring forth a savior for his。
people.。
The last two weeks, we look at the Genesis chapter 37.。
It establishes the family of Jacob, the 12 brothers.。
And also, it tells us about the story of Joseph, that he was sold to Egypt.。
If you look back at chapter 37, the last verse of 36, and also if you turn to chapter 39,。
the beginning verse 1, when you look at these two verses, you can find it is almost identical.。
One can actually skip chapter 38, but we don't.。
Because it is more than about the story of Joseph.。
It is about the generations of Joseph's father, Jacob.。
And it's also about Jacob's family, how God is so faithful to bring his people out of。
those prisons.。
And also, it is God that is faithful to bless his people after Jacob.。
And it's about God working behind the scenes through this messy family to build up a nation。
as he promised.。
So for chapter 38, seems like an odd story in the larger plot of Joseph's narrative.。
And then suddenly, it turns to a detour to show a moment in the life of Judah and Tamar.。
So these are the two main characters in chapter 38.。
And we have a sermon outline here for this slide, yes.。
When we will talk about Judah's unrighteousness, Tamar's righteousness, and also for Judah's。
redemption.。
So for these two main characters here, Tamar, she is the daughter-in-law of Judah.。
And with her immoral but tragic circumstances, she was given the honor of being the first。
woman included in Jesus' genealogy.。
And Judah was one of the sons of Jacob by his first wife, Leah.。
And of course, Judah was not as lucky as Joseph.。
He did not really have the favor and attention and love from his father.。
And his father, Jacob, did not like, did not love his mother, actually.。
So under these circumstances, Judah's mother, Leah, constantly endured rejection and inhumanization。
in her marriage.。
In Hebrew, Judah means thanksgiving or praise.。
The name was given under the circumstances in which he was born.。
Leah's heart changed and turned all her attention away from her pain and bitterness.。
And she decided to name her fourth son, Judah, means praise.。
A sacrifice of praise to God in the midst of difficult situation.。
So as we trace the character development from the beginning, it is quite a miraculous journey。
This is one of the stories that won't get included in the children Bible stories.。
Because it is a little graphic and juicy.。
In chapter 38, it spends about 20 years before the narrative returns to Joseph, continuing。
his story in chapter 39 to 50.。
So we're going to see the change in Judah at the end of this chapter.。
How God took him from a man who did not really care about his family or doing what was right,。
to the one who was willing to sacrifice to keep the family of God together at all costs.。
And through Tamar, Judah learned what it meant to do right for God's people.。
The child born of Tamar by Judah ends up being the next link in the lineage of the Messiah.。
And that's why the transformation of Judah here is so important as it is so woven with。
Joseph's story, which we will see later on.。
So please rest assured that God has a purpose to use this story to teach us some lessons.。
So are you ready?。
In the beginning of chapter 38, Judah apparently left his home after Joseph was sold to Egypt.。
Actually Judah was the one that suggests this idea and all the other brothers agreed.。
So Joseph was sold.。
So he moved to a town called Adenam.。
And here he met a lady.。
She is Canaanite and Judah married her.。
This fact is mentioned in passing, but it is important.。
There was a history in the family of not intermarrying with the Canaanites due to their pagan tendencies.。
Abraham and Isaac make it very clear to their sons, they should not marry Canaanite women.。
But unfortunately, Judah did.。
He and his wife have three children, Ur, Owen, and Shelah.。
When Ur grew up, he married a woman called Tamar.。
Tamar, we presume, she also came from a Canaanite family.。
And unfortunately, Ur was a very evil man.。
The Bible didn't say how wicked he was, but he was so wicked that so much that God took。
his life.。
And then Owen, the next oldest son, was supposed to marry and have a child with Tamar.。
This son would be recognized as the son of Ur rather than his own.。
It was a custom and also a practice in the Asian Near East, which would be later codified。
in the law of Moses, which was called the law of leverage marriage.。
If a man died without a child, his brother was to marry the widow, and the first son。
was regarded as the descendant of the deceased man.。
So bearing no children was a source of shame of any woman in the old days.。
Women have no power and have to depend on men.。
They could not inherit the land or the wealth of the husbands if he died.。
So having a son was very helpful to protect the widow, and the son would now become the。
heir, and she could be secure.。
Owen apparently married Tamar, but he did not want to give his brother a child.。
Owen acted in his own interest instead of doing what was right.。
He simply used Tamar for sex, but prevented her from getting pregnant.。
And because of his sin, Owen's life was also taken away by God.。
Now two of Judah's sons died and have been killed after marrying Tamar.。
Judah probably was very superstitious about that.。
Maybe she was cursed?。
He was so afraid of Tamar being, in Chinese we say, "hag fu."。
It means it brings bad luck or death to the husband.。
So he was very concerned about sending his last and the youngest son, Shelah, to her。
for fear that he too would die.。
And Judah probably didn't know why his two sons were drop dead.。
The only thing he knew, well, the two sons married Tamar and they died.。
So in verses 11, Judah then said to his daughter-in-law Tamar, "Live as a widow in your father's。
household until my son Shelah grows up, for he thought he may die too, just like his brothers."。
So Tamar went to live in her father's household.。
You see, it would be such a disgrace for Tamar to go back home to his father's house and。
wait there.。
But she has no choice and left with a false hope.。
Judah made Tamar believe he would eventually send his last son to her.。
But actually, he has no plans to do so.。
He was just trying to deceive her and trying to get rid of her.。
Wow.。
Poor Tamar.。
We don't know the exact timeline of the story, but sometime later, Shelah was old enough。
to marry and it was so obvious to Tamar that Judah wasn't going to keep his promise.。
But Tamar's end goal as a widow, as a woman, as Judah's daughter-in-law, is to preserve。
the family line of Judah so the inheritance and the blessings of God's covenant could。
continue.。
Tamar was so desperate, hopeless, helpless, and lonely without children and provision.。
Last Sunday, Pastor Chapman talked about how Joseph was stuck in the pit.。
Likewise, Tamar was also stuck in this family's pit.。
She's simply at the mercy of Judah.。
And yet, it's the mercy that Judah refused to give to her.。
He denied Tamar a life and a future.。
So what happened to Tamar was an injustice.。
She was mistreated badly.。
She was ultimately facing the reality of being forgotten.。
However, she refused to let others define her and she decided to take this matter into。
her own hands.。
And around that time, Judah's wife died.。
And after the mourning period, Tamar knew that he had made plans to visit his old friend.。
So what she was going to do, she changed out her clothing that identified her as a widow。
and then changed into clothing that made her look different.。
She took a place along the roadside where she knew Judah would pass by.。
Sure enough, before Judah came that way, the reaction or the interaction between Judah。
and Tamar was remarkably devoid of romance.。
Let's read verses 15.。
When Judah saw her, he thought she was a prostitute, for she had covered her face, not realizing。
that she was his daughter-in-law, he went over to her by the roadside and said, "Come。
now, let me sleep with you."。
"And what will you give me to sleep with you?" she asked.。
"I send you a young goat from my flock.。
Will you give me something as a pledge until you send it?"。
"Hmm, what pledge should I give you?"。
"Your seal is caught and the staff in your hand."。
So Judah gave them to her and slept with her.。
And she became pregnant by him.。
After she left, she took off her veil and put on her widow's clothes again.。
The seal that Judah gave Tamar was probably his ring, used for impressing his signature。
in the clay tablets of the time.。
And it was worn on a cord around the neck.。
And the staff was often carved with some identifying symbol of its owner.。
So what Judah gave Tamar was like in the present day, like an ID card or a passport, which。
was a very unique item as a defining mark of its owner.。
It was quite shocking.。
Judah could lightly forfeit his possessions.。
He easily just gave up his possessions for the sake of a moment of lust.。
And three months later, when Tamar was found to be pregnant, Judah was outraged and demanded。
her to put her to death by burning her for the shame she has brought to the family.。
Church, can you see the double standard of Judah here?。
It's so easy to accuse and point the fingers to others of wrongdoing, isn't it?。
This kind of double standard is very common in our society.。
Jesus said in Luke, "Why do you look at the speck of sawdust in your brother's eyes and。
pay no attention to the plank in your own eye?"。
Judah had made his daughter-in-law pregnant.。
He did not even care or want to ask what had happened to her.。
He condemned her, even though he was just as guilty, shameful, and unfaithful by not。
sending the last son to her.。
Judah possibly sensed this is a wonderful opportunity to get rid of Tamar, such an ominous。
person, once and for all, to execute her.。
Well, he didn't seem to have a problem walking down the road and recruiting a prostitute。
three months ago.。
And actually, he is the one that has shamed the family by not leading them in the ways。
of righteousness.。
And now, suddenly, it was Tamar's action, punishable by death.。
He should have said, "Oh, excuse me, burn me too."。
And like Judah, here we are often quick to condemn others.。
And while at the same time overlooking our own sin, we may be holding a standard for。
someone else while living a completely different way.。
We have a tendency to downplay or fail to recognize our own wrongdoing while being more。
critical to others.。
May God help us to open our eyes, to raise our awareness, promote greater empathy, and。
make a conscious effort to treat everyone fairly, regardless of their gender, background,。
or social status, et cetera.。
So let's move on.。
Verse 25, she was being brought out to send a message to her father-in-law, "I'm pregnant。
by the man who owns this," she said.。
And she added, "See if you recognize whose seal and cord and staff these are."。
Judah recognized them and said, "She is more righteous than I, since I wouldn't give her。
my son, Sheleh, and he did not sleep with her again."。
Before Tamar was burned, she delivered some shocking news.。
She's pregnant by the man who gave her this seal, cord, and staff.。
And of course, immediately Judah recognized his personal items.。
In God, he didn't say, "Oh, I'm lonely," or "Oh, my wife died," you know?。
Or Tamar, "Why did you trick me?"。
Instead of justifying his own actions or making excuses, at that moment, Judah had a clear。
realization of what had happened.。
And because of his sin in not fulfilling his promise to Tamar, and his sin in engaging。
a prostitute, he confessed that Tamar was more righteous than he was.。
Yes, she was.。
And you see, Tamar was the only one that was so cared about the family line of Judah, far。
more than anybody else.。
She risked her life.。
She risked her life in her own expenses.。
And she hold fast to the promise that were given to this family.。
Tamar displayed such an ordinary act of faith, determination, and courage.。
Like Tamar, are we willing to put our trust in God when we face challenge and stand up。
for what is right for others and for ourselves, and to seek justice?。
God allowed Tamar to achieve triumph over this situation.。
Not only God cared about her, God loved her.。
God knew her situation.。
God produced much good out of what has been a great evil.。
Church, we all have a role in God's story.。
Can we maintain our faith and resilience in God's plan and purpose when we do not understand。
our hardship?。
The Bible accurately records what people did.。
Certain behaviors appearing in the Bible does not mean God endorses these behaviors.。
Both Judah and Tamar engaged in a sinful activity.。
But sin is not really the heart of the story.。
Sin is not a surprise.。
When sin is exposed and thrown under the spotlight, what happened in the next instance is important.。
Acknowledging Tamar's righteousness and his wrongdoing was the first step in Judah's transformation.。
In this moment of realizing and in this moment of brokenness, Judah has repented and God。
redeemed him.。
Judah's life provides an example of how God can transform and use anybody, any of。
us for his purpose.。
In verses 26, the scripture here said, "And he did not sleep with her again," implying。
that Judah did not take advantage of her situation for his own gain.。
But instead, he respected Tamar and provided for her as a family.。
Repentance is not just acknowledging, "Oh, I did wrong.。
I was wrong."。
Not only that, it involves turning away from our wrongdoing and starting to live a brand。
new life, to live a different life.。
God transformed an act steeped in such immorality into an extraordinary blessing, demonstrating。
his amazing work of providence and redemption.。
Later, we will see in chapter 44, Judah was willing to give up his freedom, even his own。
life to rescue his brother Benjamin.。
And the tribe of Judah was the largest.。
And he, the tribe of Judah, was the leader of the other 11 tribes.。
And he was also privileged, being part of the lineage of the Messiah.。
Judah's name was written on the gates of the heavenly Jerusalem, according to the book。
of Revelation.。
Church, we live in the days when the behavior of Judah and Tamar are very, very common.。
But there's no restriction of God doing what he intends to do.。
We can look at Judah and Tamar and easily write them off as lost causes, worthless to。
be used by God.。
But God, with his mercy and grace, worked and transformed their lives and used such。
a black mark in their lives to become an agent of blessings for God, for their family, and。
for others in the future.。
So the book of Genesis, chapter 38, here it reminds us that there is a hope for all sinners.。
God's loving kindness often comes through confronting our ugliness and allowing us so。
honestly see our wrongdoing.。
And this humble us, this reveal our need.。
We are so much to need our Savior.。
We are so much need for his forgiveness, his mercy, for his grace, and for his redemption.。
And these are such beautiful gifts God always ready to offer to us.。
And God blesses us beyond what we deserve.。
And he is ready.。
Are you ready?。
pray.。
