- 1201, a good afternoon, church.。
- Good afternoon.。
- Do you find that as believers,。
it can be difficult to consistently show up。
in a way that reflects Christ?。
We often mean well, but with the wiles of our day-to-day,。
sometimes we find that we may have missed the mark。
and been unable to really shine the light of Christ.。
I found myself in situations where I felt like。
a bit of a failure, because I didn't give God room。
to use me when I felt his prompting.。
Bringing Jesus into conversations is something。
that I often struggle with, at work, with colleagues,。
with people that I've just met, or with my neighbors.。
And I shy away from it primarily because of fear.。
It's a struggle that I've wrestled with,。
which has led me to a lot of frustration。
and feelings of inadequacy.。
I know that there's so much more to the life of a believer。
and so much that he wants to do in us.。
And so the passage today is a bit of an encouragement。
from Jesus himself.。
He has personally called us and will help us。
to shine his light for all to see.。
So let's turn to Matthew 5, 13 to 16.。
You are the salt of the earth.。
But if salt has lost its taste,。
how shall its saltiness be restored?。
It's no longer good for anything,。
except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet.。
You are the light of the world.。
A city set on a hill cannot be hidden,。
nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket,。
but on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house.。
In the same way, let your light shine before others。
so that they may see your good works。
and give glory to your father who is in heaven.。
Amen.。
Light is attractive, whether it's fireworks。
with all sorts of colors and patterns,。
or the beautiful intricate designs on a lamp。
that find expression when you switch it on.。
Light demands attention,。
and it is spectacular in quite a number of ways.。
Light allows first for the perception of the world。
and the sensation of color.。
Light also drives photosynthesis in plants,。
which feeds them, plays a vital role in growth and survival.。
And knowing all of these important attributes。
or key roles that light plays in our world today,。
Jesus chose to use light as an analogy for the believer,。
for you and me today.。
But have you ever really thought of yourself in this light?。
Have you ever really thought about the importance。
of light in your day-to-day lives,。
where so many things in the world hinge on its existence?。
In John 8, 12, Jesus says, "I am the light of the world.。
"Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness,。
"but will have the light of life."。
And through following Christ,。
we are able not only to have his light alive in us,。
but reflect and be a light for the world to see.。
But what does light actually mean?。
What does being a light in this world entail?。
To put it simply, without light, we can't see.。
Ever tried doing a simple walk。
around a really dark, unfamiliar room?。
There's a certain change in your pace and attentiveness。
that must be done to avoid falling over, getting hurt.。
You can't do things the exact same way you would。
if you were walking in the light.。
It's difficult and sometimes not possible to see.。
We aren't able to properly perceive details, colors,。
and sometimes even danger.。
We need light.。
It not only helps us to see our close surroundings,。
but enables us to look far ahead。
and see far beyond where we currently are.。
We need light for vision.。
We need light for vision.。
One of my favorite things to do with our son。
is to look out of our living room window。
and point out the cars that are close by,。
some of the buses that are a little bit further,。
and the mountains really far in the distance.。
Without the light, though, however,。
it's not such an easy task.。
I tried at night, everything just looks the same.。
One big mountain,。
though I know it's made up of several little ones,。
the lack of light makes things ambiguous,。
unclear, and often quite confusing.。
But once the light switch goes on。
or the street lights are on, we gain clear perspective.。
We know exactly what we are looking at.。
The same can be said of us as believers.。
In a dark room,。
we are supposed to be the light switch that goes on.。
We are the ones that God has positioned。
to bring light into darkness.。
Often we find ourselves in environments。
that we label as toxic,。
and the first thing we want to do is run.。
We do all that we can to escape,。
we feel around for the door handle, and we leave.。
Actually, sometimes the Lord isn't calling us to leave,。
but he's calling us to stay and turn on the light,。
the light of Christ that's within us needs to shine.。
And that can come in a number of ways.。
Providing that all-important vision for others。
can be in how we use our words,。
or how we choose to handle difficult situations,。
how we resolve conflict,。
how we decide to focus on the positives,。
and how God is constantly working things for our good,。
even in the most dire situations.。
We are the light of the world, a city on a hill,。
and Jesus reminds us that we should not be hidden.。
Lamps are visible, lights help to see,。
and we should be the ones pointing people to Jesus。
through our conduct, through our words,。
and through our lives.。
We are the light that will help others to see Jesus.。
We are the light that will help others to see Jesus.。
An important thought and a question for us as believers。
is what do others see in us?。
After spending time with us, after being around us,。
what do people see?。
Do people truly see the light of Christ in us?。
Would anyone be shocked if they found out。
you were a Christian?。
Or would it be a ah, yeah, kind of makes sense moment?。
And if it's the former,。
perhaps it's because your light has been hidden。
under a basket, as our Lord says.。
I know that it can be extremely difficult to be light,。
especially if you feel like you're a really small lamp。
in a very, very dark room.。
Who am I?。
Can I really make a difference?。
Often being with other believers helps to spread the light.。
It lifts the weight.。
But what happens when it's just you by yourself?。
When you feel like there's too much darkness。
and you've only got a little bit of light?。
Well, there's an encouragement in Psalms 119,。
where it tells us that the word of God。
is a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path.。
To be illuminators as believers,。
we require the word of God.。
And in doing so,。
we're able to spread the same light to others.。
Walking in step with the word of God。
and knowing what the Lord is saying on a daily basis。
keeps us shining.。
When Moses had been on the mountain with God in Exodus 34,。
the Bible tells us that he came down and his face shone.。
He was literally glowing and radiating the light of God。
because he had spent time in his presence.。
And this is what we as believers are called into.。
Spending time in the presence of God。
helps us to love him more, to know him more,。
and to live our daily lives in a way that pleases him.。
As we walk according to his word,。
our actions showcase the power of God at work in us.。
I'm gonna read that first bit again.。
Spending time in the presence of God。
helps us to love him more, know him more,。
and live our daily lives in a way that pleases him.。
We are more sensitive to his will and prompting。
when we're in close proximity to him.。
Helping us to shine.。
People are able to gain vision by looking at us。
and seeing the light that we exude。
through walking in godliness,。
which points to our father in heaven,。
the ultimate source of light.。
Now light, in many cases, can also be a source of life.。
If we think about plants and their need for light,。
it is crucial for light,。
enabling them to produce food, grow, and survive.。
And in the same way, us as believers in this fallen world,。
the truth of the gospel is at the center of our lives.。
The way we choose to live out our faith。
on a day-to-day basis can be what brings salvation。
and life to a non-believer.。
Jesus says he is the way, the truth, and the?。
- Life. - Life.。
And the light should be a means of bringing people。
in the knowledge of him.。
It should bring life to others.。
But I think that sometimes, as believers, me included,。
we forget that we've actually been commissioned。
to go out into the world and make disciples,。
Matthew 28, 19, which often starts。
by simply displaying Christ in our lives。
before even sharing the gospel.。
I've been guilty myself of phrases like,。
I'm not an evangelist, I don't even know where to start,。
but actually, these words from Jesus。
point to our lives being the key.。
People seeing how we live in his light and glorifying him.。
Your life, my life as a believer should reflect。
the teachings of Jesus and point people to him.。
And this should bring about a weight。
that is felt in our lives in a way。
that transforms how we conduct ourselves.。
Am I truly representing Christ in this dark world?。
Will my father be glorified in how I work?。
How I speak to others?。
Does my light shine enough that someone wants。
to come to Jesus as a result of my life?。
I've personally been convicted many times。
of my frustrations, my mood,。
and how that actually puts a bit of a dim。
on the light I'm supposed to be shining.。
When my actions are fueled primarily by my emotions。
or how I'm feeling and not the word of God and his wisdom,。
the light doesn't shine as brightly as it's supposed to.。
And that doesn't glorify God。
and can actually be a stumbling block for other people.。
When your light is hidden,。
others aren't able to see God through you.。
Just like the picture of my son and I。
looking out of the window,。
there's a lot of squinting, a lack of clarity,。
and an inability to see what is really there.。
As believers, we don't want ambiguity.。
We don't want people to look at us。
and be unsure of who we actually represent.。
We want the light of Christ to shine brightly,。
to be seen from afar.。
And therefore, shining the light of Christ。
is a responsibility and really requires being connected。
to Jesus, our source.。
And in that way, our light will bring life。
to those around us because a true city on a hill。
cannot be hidden.。
Our light will bring life to those around us。
because a true city on a hill cannot be hidden.。
When we are fully plugged into Christ as our source,。
it becomes impossible to not shine for others to see.。
I've been in situations at work。
where I've chosen to stay silent。
when I know I should have prayed for someone。
or stood up for what was morally right.。
Knowing the light that is in us as followers of Christ,。
we should be the first people that others run to。
in situations where there is distress or sadness,。
when a colleague is going through a really hard time。
or a personal challenge.。
Our light should shine in a way。
that starts to make peace reign,。
where people may not necessarily know what it is,。
but they're drawn to us.。
We're safe because of the light of Christ.。
But when we intentionally or unconsciously。
put our lights under a basket。
or begin to lose our saltiness,。
our influence begins to fade.。
Often fading into the culture or the environment。
is easier than standing out.。
Quietly going through your day, avoiding conflict,。
avoiding having to be in defense of your faith,。
it's the easy option.。
And at times it feels like the peaceful solution,。
but salt is meant to stand out.。
If you can imagine like a pack of chips。
and you sprinkle a bit of salt on it,。
it makes a noticeable difference.。
And we are meant to stand out,。
not in a weird obnoxious way。
where you're in people's faces,。
but in a way that commands godly authority.。
As we walk in our God-given purpose。
and we live out the gospel by reflecting him in our lives,。
praying against dark forces,。
commanding peace in the midst of chaos,。
loving and praying for our enemies,。
and walking in step with the Holy Spirit。
on how best we can shine。
in every situation we find ourselves in.。
Prophet Isaiah speaks to the Israelites。
in the Old Testament in Isaiah 60.。
And he says, "Arise and shine, for your light has come,。
"and the glory of the Lord is upon us。
"and will be seen by others."。
This is what the light of Christ is in us.。
As well as this being a clear picture。
of the light of Christ the Messiah,。
it gives us imagery in addition to Matthew 5。
for what the Lord has intended.。
To shine his light, to be attractive to others,。
to be the glory of the Lord here on earth,。
and to be a beacon that points people to Christ.。
As bearers of Christ's image,。
we should reflect his light in darkness.。
Now, for a more modern-ish picture of light,。
these are two images from a popular sitcom.。
You might know, or might not,。
but I feel like they really bring this imagery to light.。
So the first slide.。
Some of you might.。
Justin does.。
(laughs)。
So as you can see from the two pictures,。
both of these images are of an old church building。
in the process of being demolished.。
So you can see lots of bricks, debris, holes.。
It just looks like an absolute mess.。
Loads of holes in it, lots of darkness.。
By show of hands, if you were invited to an event。
and they showed you this picture, who would want to go?。
No one. (laughs)。
Well, I feel like this is a strong picture。
of what our current fallen world is like。
without the believer.。
If you take a look at the next slide, though,。
exact same venue, exact same place.。
The only difference is lots and lots of lights.。
You can see they even put lights in the big gaping hole.。
Yeah, right?。
If you don't look really hard,。
you can't actually tell that it's the same place。
as the previous slide.。
And that is what we as believers bring to the table.。
When we come into a dark room, still the same darkness,。
still the same holes, still the same bricks,。
but we shine the light of Christ.。
You can't even really tell that there's damage.。
With a room full of lights, the darkness flees。
and the beauty of the lights reign.。
And because we bring Jesus with us,。
the focus is no longer on the holes in the wall,。
the falling bricks, but it's the light of Christ.。
It takes over.。
And as a result, it becomes a place。
that people actually want to go to.。
Show of hands, who would like to?。
Yeah, I would.。
Totally different.。
That is our call, to illuminate the darkest rooms。
and bring the beauty of our Lord with us.。
Now, there are some obvious challenges to doing this.。
As we do live in a fallen world,。
there is a lot of darkness and shining。
can be really challenging.。
Remembering the sermon from last week on persecution,。
it's a reminder of the challenges。
that believers all over the world face。
in trying to shine the light of Christ.。
Trying to live out the gospel in our neighborhoods,。
where many may be of a different religion,。
where the culture sways one way,。
and even mentioning the name of Jesus can feel very hostile.。
But Jesus speaks about others seeing our light。
through our good works,。
which then brings them to glorify him.。
And as daunting and scary as it may be。
to stand in the middle of your village and preach,。
unless the Lord is empowering you to do so,。
Jesus emphasizes our good works,。
the outward working of the Holy Spirit in us,。
which can be as simple as a really warm good morning,。
helping your neighbor with their shopping bags,。
walking with an older person to the bus stop,。
offering your neighbor some treats,。
praying for that busy mom,。
and offering a play date or a cooked meal.。
It is simply loving others.。
He says in John 13, 34 to 35,。
"Just as I have loved you,。
"you also are to love one another."。
By seeing our conduct and our love for others,。
even those we don't actually know,。
our light shines bright for all to see.。
Jesus not only calls us to be light in Matthew 5,。
but he affirms that he is the source of light in John 8, 12.。
"I am the light of the world.。
"Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness,。
"but will have the light of life."。
And in his perfect way,。
this passage is a little reminder。
that it is ultimately all about Christ.。
Because in those moments。
where we feel like we've missed an opportunity,。
where we can find comfort in knowing。
that light ultimately comes from Jesus,。
and that what we can ask him to help us。
in shining brightly for those around us.。
When you know you've not been standing out for Christ,。
where that saltiness has lost its flavor,。
where you think you've put your light under a basket,。
this is a call to put the switch back on,。
to ask the Lord to help and to reconnect with the source.。
This is encouragement that it's never too late。
to shine for Christ, never.。
Earlier, I mentioned feeling convicted。
to pray for others and staying silent.。
It wasn't an intentional thing,。
but I had been hiding my light under a basket。
with books, to-do lists, essays,。
lots and lots of other things piled over my lamp,。
and actually it was no longer shining,。
to the point where it was totally covered.。
But in my preparation for this very sermon,。
the conviction of the Lord hit me like a ton of bricks.。
And on Wednesday, I prayed to the Lord and repented,。
and I asked for another chance.。
I said, "Lord, help me to shine for you this week."。
It's not been at the forefront of my mind,。
and it should have been.。
And I kid you not, an hour later,。
the Lord impressed on my heart to pray for a colleague。
who is of another faith.。
And during quite an emotional moment for the both of us,。
I believed that God used me to shine his light,。
to bring comfort, peace, and hope.。
I did a quick three-minute prayer in the school playground,。
and I really felt that God was in,。
not in the room, in the playground.。
And since then, I've prayed and trusted God。
for more opportunities to shine his light.。
I knew I had missed the mark before,。
but God is so patient and so gracious and so kind。
that he has empowered us all to do the same and even more.。
With every yes that we say to the Holy Spirit's prompting,。
when we make the effort to love someone,。
to share the gospel, to pray for someone,。
to use self-control in our words,。
to go out of our way to help someone,。
we are shining the light of Christ for all to see.。
And being a light in a very dark world,。
it does take a lot of courage and a lot of boldness。
and a lot more wisdom.。
But the Bible tells us that these are all things。
that God gives to us abundantly.。
We just have to ask.。
Being uncomfortable sometimes for the sake of God,。
or even being disliked for loving him。
and choosing to live righteously may happen.。
But remember that our lives are for his glory.。
Being a city on a hill, we live for him。
so others may glorify him too.。
Being a city on a hill, we live for him。
so others may glorify him too.。
Light is beautiful.。
Light is attractive.。
Light illuminates.。
And when we choose to let the light of Christ。
that is within us shine for all to see,。
we please God, we walk in our God-given calling,。
we gain vision and life for ourselves and those around us.。
So let's let our light shine for all to see。
that our father in heaven may be glorified.。
Amen.。
Can I ask the worship team to come up?。
Thank you.。
