Hey, it is so good to be with you.。
I was gone for a couple of months, not intentionally, but I had problems returning, so you can imagine。
what happened.。
Yeah, but I'm just delighted to get to spend this time with you.。
And I really believe that Jesus wants to meet us here today, has already met us through。
worship, and so my prayer also has been that he will meet us through this message.。
So in 2002, I had the privilege of participating in a discipleship training school with Mercy。
Ships.。
Now Mercy Ships is a medical missions organization, an NGO, that has medical hospital ships and。
that docks in countries to provide life-saving, life-transforming surgeries.。
And their mission is to bring hope and healing.。
And they do that both physically, but they also do that spiritually through their medical。
work and through sharing the love of Jesus.。
Now I joined them in Freetown in Sierra Leone, a country in West Africa, and I spent several。
months there, and then we sailed from Freetown to The Gambia, which is another small country。
in West Africa.。
Now when Mercy Ships heads to a new place, they've actually already done a ton of work。
before they ever get there.。
They send a ground team there.。
They work with government officials, because you cannot just show up and, you know, decide。
you're going to do surgeries in a country.。
They work with health departments.。
They work with churches.。
They work with other NGOs, with community leaders, to partner with them in their work,。
to spread the news about what they're doing, and to do this awesome and amazing medical。
work.。
So some of the things that they do is removing tumors.。
There's a common tumor in that area where a lot of people can't afford to care for,。
just grows, and actually can really take the dignity of people and also endanger their。
lives, so they remove tumors.。
They do surgeries on cleft lips.。
They do surgery on clubbed feet and lots of other things, and restorative plastic surgery.。
So it's absolutely incredible that that physical, but also that spiritual transformation that。
they bring.。
Now one of the things that Mercy Ship does when they then arrive in a dock is probably。
within a week or so, they schedule a massive medical screening.。
So they--and all the people, you know, they've been spreading the news.。
You can see her line, so it's up to like a thousand people or more.。
Sometimes they use stadiums to do that medical screening.。
And they come and they're examined by the ship's doctors, and then they schedule them。
for surgery.。
Now of course they put the most urgent surgeries first, but there is a lot of work to figure。
out, you know, when to schedule surgery, how long they take time in the ward to recover,。
but it's absolutely incredible.。
So every once in a while, also people are in that line that come that cannot be helped。
medically any longer.。
And so when that happens, they encourage people to go to a group of people from Mercy Ships。
that's there, that is there to care for them, but also to pray for supernatural healing.。
And people have been healed.。
Now as we were sailing from Sierra Leone to the Gambia--and by the way, this was the time。
when I figured out that I'm not meant to be on a ship because I get really seasick, but--and。
he said it was even the smoothest sailing possible, so I just stay away from them now.。
But as we were sailing, they told me that I would be one of the people who was going。
to pray for supernatural healing for the terminally ill.。
And I have to say, I was anxious.。
I was freaked out.。
I was a young guy.。
I had never prayed for a terminally ill person before.。
Now, I don't know about you, you know, whether you would be excited about that opportunity。
or whether that'd be something where you maybe feel like I feel, a little bit anxious, you're。
not 100% sure.。
So I ended up getting out of it, and here I have a confession.。
I was happy.。
And it's maybe not what you expected from one of your pastors.。
I wasn't a pastor back then, but I was really relieved.。
But looking back, I would say I actually missed an incredible opportunity to make myself available。
to God, for Him to work through me in prayer, to make myself available to the person who。
just has gotten a very difficult news, and to pray for them, to pray for healing, and。
in the very least, to bring God's comfort and care to that person in that situation.。
So I don't know what your experience and what your practice with prayer is.。
Maybe some of you, you pray a lot.。
Maybe you haven't prayed in a while, or it's been even quite hard to get yourself to pray,。
because you know the emotions that will come up when you go to God in prayer.。
Maybe you're one of those people who gets really excited to pray for healing.。
Maybe you've never done it, and you're just not sure.。
Whatever your prayer journey is, and I share it from you with my prayer journey, you know,。
this is part of my prayer journey.。
God wants to invite you today to be people who are bold in prayer, who pray for healing,。
who bring things to Jesus in prayer, and you know what?。
Jesus loves to partner with His people.。
He loves to partner with the church when they pray, and He loves to powerfully release His。
healing, His renewing, His restoring, His forgiving work in the lives of people and。
communities, and we get to be part of that.。
He loves to partner with us.。
So we are in our final message of our sermon series, "How We Now Live," and the topic today。
is bold in prayer.。
And we're going to explore through this message, through the passage, we're going to look at。
what does it mean to be bold in prayer?。
What are we even talking about?。
And secondly, how might God be inviting us to be people who are bold in prayer?。
Does that sound good?。
Yes?。
All right.。
I'm excited.。
But I also want to say, sometimes when you talk about bold, being bold, we have certain。
images that come to our minds.。
Maybe it's like an extrovert, you know, who's super social.。
Maybe it's somebody who's praying in a loud voice, or maybe it's somebody who's very confident。
when they pray.。
But that's not what bold prayer is about.。
And I'm just saying this because I have the sense that some of us here today, we might。
not be feeling that bold, but I want you to know that being bold in prayer is also for。
you.。
Now, let me set a little bit of context for this message and this passage.。
So James, the brother of Jesus, is writing to early Christian communities spread across。
the Mediterranean area, and the early Christians are actually going through very difficult。
times.。
They're being taken advantage of economically, so there's oppression, there's injustice,。
and there's just lots of trials that they are facing.。
And James is encouraging them to be people who live distinct Christian lives so that。
they don't look like their surrounding culture, but that the faith in Jesus is visible in。
how they live.。
And we've actually been talking about this, right?。
Joyful in hardship, strong in temptation, active in faith, faithful in words, and courageous。
in justice.。
And today we're talking about being bold in prayer.。
Now a lot of emphasis in James' book is also going through trials and waiting on God patiently,。
you know, that God will come through.。
But I love how James ends this letter in a very pastoral way, because he talks to this。
church about the present availability of Jesus.。
Jesus is available to you right now.。
You can come to him in prayer.。
And he loves the work.。
He loves to move when his people come, when his church comes.。
So James is encouraging them that Jesus is right there, and they can come to him with。
whatever it is that they're facing and going through, that he can act, and he does act。
right now, right here.。
So let's actually read the passage in James.。
We're in James chapter 5, and starting in verse 13 it says, "Is anyone among you in。
trouble?。
Let them pray.。
Is anyone happy?。
Let them sing songs of praise.。
Is anyone among you sick?。
Let them call the elders of the church to pray over them and anoint them with oil in。
the name of the Lord.。
The prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well.。
The Lord will raise them up.。
If they have sinned, they will be forgiven.。
Therefore confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you may be。
healed.。
The prayer of a righteous person is powerful and effective.。
Elijah was a human being, even as we are.。
He prayed earnestly that it would not rain, and it did not rain for three and a half years.。
Again he prayed, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth produced its crops."。
So as we're going to unpack this message, this passage, we're going to be asking a question,。
how is God inviting us to be people who are bold in prayer?。
So in verse 13, James talks about two circumstances.。
So it says, "Is anyone among you in trouble?。
Let them pray."。
First circumstance.。
If you're in trouble, pray.。
Second circumstance.。
"Is anyone happy?。
Let them sing songs of praise."。
Now, it would be easy to rush on, you know, just skim over this passage, because in some。
sense it's straightforward, but I think we need to pause here a little bit and reflect。
just a little bit more on what God wants to say to us.。
So the word that James uses for trouble, kakopatheo, it means internal distress caused by external。
circumstances.。
So that's one of the meanings.。
So it's an internal distress.。
Now, what is internal distress?。
We all know what we all have experienced.。
It's like these running thoughts.。
It's anxiousness.。
It's fear.。
It's panic.。
Maybe even expresses itself physically through headaches, stomach aches.。
So what do we do?。
Do we sit there and we complain to God, you know, when we're in trouble?。
Do we just sit there in frustration and maybe even try to deal with it ourselves?。
Or do we bring our troubles to Jesus?。
And I know that I think for a lot of us, our temptation there is that we actually don't。
bring our troubles to Jesus.。
That's why James is encouraging those early Christians, and also we are being encouraged。
to bring our troubles to Jesus, because we don't always do it.。
But Jesus is readily available, and He wants to work through our prayers.。
So being bold in prayer means that we're bringing the trouble that we are facing and experiencing。
to God in prayer.。
So we can bring that to Him.。
So what trouble are you experiencing right now that you have not brought to Jesus yet?。
And next James talks about, if you're happy, sing songs of praise.。
Now remember, the early Christian community, they're actually going through a difficult。
time, but yet there's still God's goodness.。
There's still moments of happiness in there.。
And James is encouraging them to praise God.。
Now we already don't always bring our troubles to God, but I think we're even less likely。
to bring our praises to God.。
And praise, by the way, is also a form of prayer.。
It's thanksgiving.。
And so when we think of being bold, I don't think that most of us think when we talk about。
being bold in prayer, we don't think about that actually part of bold prayer is praising。
God.。
That is a bold act.。
You know what makes it especially bold?。
When we're actually going through a hard time, but yet we choose to praise God for His goodness。
in our lives.。
That's bold.。
That's a bold declaration.。
And so James is inviting us to be bold in prayer, means being bold in our praise, to。
declare God's goodness boldly.。
That's powerful.。
When you know somebody is going through a tough time, you see them praising God, man,。
I'm touched.。
So we can be bold in our praise.。
Now in verse 14, there's another circumstance that James addresses where he encourages the。
church to be prayerful in.。
And they actually ask for prayer in this instance.。
It says, "Is anyone among you sick?。
Let them call the elders of the church to pray over them and anoint them with oil in。
the name of the Lord."。
And I love how James empowers the sick person.。
You know, you can call on others and ask others to pray for you.。
And here specifically, he's encouraging for the people to call on the elders.。
Now who are the elders?。
Well, elders are spiritual leaders of a community.。
They oversee the community, they shepherd the community.。
And so we're supposed to call on the elders to anoint us and to pray over us in the name。
of the Lord.。
Now what is anointing all about?。
This anointing with oil.。
Well, one of the meanings is a symbolic meaning that means that a person is being set apart。
for God's special care and attention.。
You know, God, we're setting this person apart for God's special care and attention.。
I love that.。
Isn't that beautiful?。
Like that symbolism of that?。
And then it's also symbolism of the power of the healing of Jesus, that Jesus is powerful。
and able to heal.。
But then we're also told that the elders are supposed to pray in the name of the Lord.。
Now praying, that means praying in the name of Jesus.。
Jesus is our Lord and he has given us authority, he has given elders authority to act on his。
authority and by his power when we pray.。
Now if you think about it, when Jesus sends out the disciples first in this mission to。
Israel, later on all of us, he sends us with his authority.。
So when we pray in the name of Jesus, we're doing that on behalf of Jesus and by his power.。
You are doing that on behalf of Jesus and by his power.。
And he works through the prayers.。
Now of course, not just elders can pray and anoint, you know, for healing and God works。
in this church a lot of times, also through anyone else, you know, who anoints a sick。
person and prays for healing.。
But he has given elders a special authority in the church to pray for healing.。
So we can come to them and we can ask for prayers.。
So being bold in prayer involves also praying over those who are sick for supernatural healing.。
Now I want to encourage you with a testimony from actually Pastor Ellison's mom.。
So I'll read it to you.。
On December 1st last year, my health took a dramatic turn for the worse.。
This was very unusual.。
I'm a very healthy and active person.。
I was eating well and doing regular exercise.。
But after having a fever for a few days, I fainted at home and found myself unconscious。
in the ICU.。
I was suffering from an infection which meant the brain was swelling out of control to the。
point where it was life threatening.。
They managed to get that under control, but that was just the beginning.。
What followed was a four-month battle for my life.。
Doctors were baffled.。
They couldn't figure out what was wrong with me.。
I had a consistent fever of more than 40 degrees Celsius.。
Growth were found in my lungs, in my liver, and in my brain.。
I was constantly in and out of consciousness.。
And my family were not able to visit me due to COVID restrictions.。
They told my family that I was facing a serious form of cancer which had spread all over my。
body.。
The doctor even told my family that they should be prepared to say goodbye at any moment.。
But it didn't make any sense.。
After all I said beforehand, I was actually a healthy person and I didn't have any cancer-like。
symptoms at all.。
And so we prayed.。
My family prayed.。
My church prayed.。
My colleagues prayed.。
And God began to work his healing.。
After almost five months in the hospital, I was finally discharged.。
Turns out it wasn't cancer in the end.。
I still don't know the answer to what actually caused the sickness.。
The best the doctors could tell me was that it was a mysterious infection.。
In the end, it doesn't matter.。
I know that Jesus was the one who healed me.。
And he will continue to be with me for the rest of my life.。
Praise God.。
So we can ask for healing.。
God has the power to release this healing on his people.。
So now in our passage, James turns to how God works through prayer.。
So in verse 15, it says, "And the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well.。
The Lord will raise them up.。
If they have sinned, they will be forgiven."。
So here we're told that a person is made well through the prayer of faith, that they can。
be healed through the prayer of faith.。
Now what is the prayer of faith?。
Well a prayer of faith means that we have trust in the Lord, that he is able to heal.。
But it also means that there is a commitment to Jesus, that we're single-minded and not。
double-minded, that we're committed to following and living the life of Jesus.。
Doesn't mean we do that perfectly.。
So the prayer of faith is offered by somebody who trusts God, who trusts Jesus, and who。
is committed to Jesus.。
Sometimes when we pray, there's also special faith that is released and given to us to。
pray for somebody for supernatural healing.。
As we're praying that, the Holy Spirit reveals that God wants to heal that person.。
And so when that happens, we can lean into that faith that God has given us to pray for。
that supernatural healing.。
Now inherent in a prayer of faith is also that we are submitting to God's will.。
So whether or not Jesus does his healing work in a person's life is up to God.。
You know, we pray the prayer and we're called to ask for healing.。
We should pray for that, but then ultimately it's up for God to decide what he does in。
this person's life.。
And so we just entrust that to him and we hand that over to him.。
You know what I love though is that Jesus invites all of us, all of us, you might not。
think of yourself that way, but all of us into this work.。
Because if you're a follower of Jesus, you have been sent with authority.。
And God loves to partner with us.。
Church, you have a mission.。
We have the mission to share the gospel.。
We have the mission to just serve and love people and contribute to the flourishing of。
society.。
But you also have a mission to pray.。
And God wants to release his healing, his redeeming, his renewing, his forgiving work。
through prayer.。
And he allows us to partner with him in that.。
It's powerful and it's beautiful and it's encouraging that we get to co-labor with God.。
Now God does the healing.。
We don't do the healing, but he allows us to be part of the process.。
And it's so encouraging when we experience God's work through our prayers.。
So next, James, he also talks about spiritual healing, that God does not just want to heal。
us physically, but he also wants to do some spiritual healing and really some spiritual。
healing through prayer.。
So in verse, especially verse 16, we're encouraged, and this is the community being encouraged.。
This takes place in the community.。
It says, "Therefore confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you。
may be healed."。
So we're encouraged to confess our sins to each other.。
We're told that God wants to release his healing when we do that.。
Now why is James encouraging the Christian community to do this?。
Just one second.。
Why is James encouraging the Christian community to do this?。
Well, he knows that we're broken people.。
Yes, we've experienced Jesus' forgiveness and a new life in him, but we still stumble.。
We still sin against God, against others, and then we're not fully being the people。
that God has created us to be.。
But we can come to him and we can confess our sins and we can pray for each other, and。
he releases his healing to renew us, to forgive us, and to give us the grace to move forward。
and live by his grace.。
Now a lot of times when we think of sin, we think of just big type of things like murder。
or theft, and of course that is part of it, but Jesus actually talks about that sin is。
a hard issue.。
So here are some words from Jesus from the Gospel of Mark, chapter 7, verse 20 through。
23.。
He says, "What comes out of a person is what defiles them, for it is from within, out of。
a person's heart, that evil thoughts come.。
Sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, greed, malice, deceit, lewdness, envy, slander,。
arrogance, and folly.。
All these evils come from inside and defile a person."。
So while we have beautiful and good things in our hearts, but there is also still sin。
in our hearts.。
And if we would just look at this past week, if all that has happened in our hearts, all。
our thoughts, our judgment, our lust, our envy, it's not very pretty.。
It's not very pretty.。
And I know I would be deeply embarrassed if you could see all of that that has happened。
here.。
And so we're encouraged to bring this heart issue that we have to Jesus for him to renew。
us, to restore us, and to do his forgiving and healing work in our lives.。
And a friend and also scholar, Mary Kate Morris, she writes, "Confession is part of the daily。
rhythm of prayer."。
It's actually something we can do daily.。
It reminds us that love and wholeness is in God and not in our effort.。
You know, we're not whole because of what we do.。
We're whole because of what Jesus has done.。
We're whole because we stand in his grace, because we receive his forgiveness.。
And he wants to release this wholeness and this love in which we stand when we confess。
our sins.。
Now, I know that when I've confessed my sins to Chris, to close friends, and asked them。
to pray with me, that Jesus, this healing work is released, and guilt and shame is lifted.。
You know, and there's a freshness and a newness.。
And also kind of shuts down the enemy who's accusing us.。
So when we confess our sins to each other, it's powerful.。
And I cannot actually think of something more bold than share the stuff that's not so pretty。
with somebody and ask to pray with each other about this, right?。
So again, being bold in prayer is maybe a little bit different than what we thought.。
But it's also being vulnerable and confessing our sins to each other.。
And Jesus then releases his healing work on his people.。
So being bold in prayer is regularly confessing our sin, which releases God's forgiveness。
and healing work in our lives.。
Now finally, James goes on and he reminds us of the effectiveness and the power that。
is in prayer.。
And again, why does James need to remind us?。
Well, because we forget how powerful prayer is.。
We underestimate it.。
We underestimate how Jesus wants to meet us and work through it when we come to him in。
prayer.。
So in verse 16, the last part, it says, "The prayer of a righteous person is powerful and。
effective."。
Now what is a righteous person?。
Am I one of them?。
You might be wondering, "Does that count for me?"。
Well, here's what a righteous person is.。
A righteous person is a person who is a Christian who stands in the grace of God, not their。
own goodness.。
You know, somebody who has received that forgiveness and grace and who as the child of God can。
call on God and has access to Jesus, you know, to work through prayer.。
And so then next, James illustrates how powerful our prayers are, and that's to encourage us.。
And so in verse 17, he talks, he reminds the Christian community of the story of the prophet。
of Elijah.。
He says, "Elijah was a human being, even as we are.。
He prayed earnestly that it would not rain, and it did not rain on the land for three。
and a half years.。
Again he prayed, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth produced crops."。
Wow.。
Now it's easy to kind of raise an objection.。
Actually James was anticipating that people would object, "Well, you know, Elijah, he。
was a prophet, he had like special access to God."。
But actually he said, "Elijah was a human.。
He was a person like you and me, that there is no difference.。
He also had his human weaknesses.。
He had his anxious thoughts.。
He had all of that."。
And so we can, anyone, we all are on the same ground when we come to Jesus in prayer.。
There's a quote I want to share with you from a professor and pastor.。
He says, "There are no extraordinary humans with unique access to God, just an extraordinary。
God whose power is available to all who are willing to pray."。
So right now I want to invite the worship team to come up, and I want to share with。
you a testimony of this extraordinary God and how he has met me in my life.。
This is actually a continuation of the story with Mercy Ships.。
So I finished my time with Mercy Ships, and I went home to Germany.。
I was with my parents.。
So beforehand I was working in a business world, and I felt that God was calling me。
to shift to work in a church, to be a pastor, to be a missionary, to work in that direction.。
And but now I had some challenges because I had borrowed money from my parents, $10,000。
U.S. dollars, which by now would be like $20,000 with inflation, you know, from 20 years ago.。
And I needed to pay them back.。
Then I didn't know where to go for seminary.。
I didn't know much about seminaries.。
So where would I go?。
Where would I live?。
Then on top of it, seminary also costs, so like how am I going to pay for this?。
But it was really cool.。
Like God, I realized if God is calling me to do this, you know, he can provide for me.。
And so I prayed for God's provision.。
There was all these I don't knows.。
You know, I don't know where I will go.。
I don't know how I will pay.。
I don't know how I'll even get into seminary.。
But God answered and provided for me.。
I ended up getting a full scholarship to seminary.。
When does that ever happen?。
For anyone who's in seminary, they're a little stingy with giving scholarships.。
And then after my first year, I got a job as a resident chaplain at Baylor University.。
And I got free housing, free food, free Wi-Fi, free gas and electric.。
And I even got a little stipend that after two years allowed me to pay my parents back.。
Isn't that amazing?。
And so God provided for me in my case financially and through that job.。
But maybe in your case, his provision is different.。
Maybe it's a provision of guidance when you don't know which direction to go.。
Maybe it's a provision of a friendship, you know, when you're really just longing for。
a good friend or for a relationship.。
So God provides in different ways.。
But right now, instead of also just talking about prayer, I actually want to lead us into。
a time of prayer.。
So in the next seven to ten minutes, we're going to take some time to pray together,。
to pray with each other.。
Now this is something we practice at the Vine now quite regularly where we take some time.。
You know, you turn to somebody you know, you turn maybe to a friend or you introduce yourself。
to someone and you share with each other how you can pray for each other and then we just。
pray.。
So we're going to take five to seven minutes to do that right now.。
If you're online, Chapman will give you some instructions for how you can engage in this。
time.。
So let's do this right now.。
Let's turn to each other.。
Let's bring our prayer to Jesus who is available, who loves to work through the prayers of his。
people.。
Let's do this right now.。
Then in a few minutes, I'll come back and I'll wrap up our time.。
