with us, Lord. In the great name above all names, in Jesus' name we pray, the church says, amen.。
Let's go. Thank you, worship team. Good morning, church. How are we today? Great. Good. Good to see。
you guys. Good morning. If you're in the overflow, good morning. Hello to you as well. And if you're。
joining us online, it's good to have you guys with us too. I'm a little bit still congested.。
I also had sausage McMuffin for breakfast this morning. So, good life choices I'm making.。
But again, always honored and excited to be sharing God's word this morning.。
Now it's June 8th, we're halfway through 2025 already. Taxes were due last week in case you。
forgot. You still have some time, I guess. But you know, it's about these times of the year,。
we take a look back and we take stock and we start to think about how the year has been going so far。
and how we view it to go in the six months that's ahead of us. And when I think about what's been。
happening in the Sunday services and the life of this church on Sunday, at least, it's been。
really amazing to see God at work in this body of Christ, in this community. There have been so many。
moments where because we've made decisions to lean in and be obedient to how the Holy Spirit has。
been guiding us, we've had the privilege of seeing Him at work in some really cool ways.。
We've been talking about exploring the uncharted and God has been revealing through us, through。
the Holy Spirit, lots of cool things. And one of the most encouraging things I've seen is when we。
surrender ourselves to the Holy Spirit and just let Him take over what He wants to do, especially。
in this time. I remember a few months ago, we had a time where we didn't even go into the message。
and we just continued to preach. We just, I mean, we just continue to pray and worship and minister。
to each other. These spontaneous responses of praise, these spontaneous responses of worship。
and celebrating in each other's joys, but also walking with each other in the burdens. And of。
course, one of the most beautiful things that I've seen, that we've seen is that when we've called。
upon the church to pray for each other. So the moments when we stood up, if you need prayer,。
open up your hands and just to see the entire body of Christ surrounding those who need prayer。
and praying over them, interceding for them, speaking on them, speaking for them on behalf。
of the pains and the needs and the feeling at that time. And it just reminds me that this is what the。
church was truly meant for. And today, as we close out our series on the Holy Spirit, we're going to。
be talking about the gifts of the Spirit and the fruit of the Spirit. And as we talk about the。
gifts and the fruit, I want us to keep focusing on the body of Christ, on the church. Now this might。
be a different perspective than what we normally might think, because a lot of the time when we're。
talking about these things, we want to take a more sort of personal approach to it. We start asking。
ourselves the question, well, what is my gift, right? How am I bearing fruit? And yes, there is。
a personal element to these things. We'll talk about that in a minute. However, I think that if。
we think gifts and fruit are just about you or just about us as individuals, then we've missed。
the point completely. Something Justin said a couple of weeks ago was super important. He said。
that we shouldn't be like a stopping gate of the Holy Spirit, right? But he was calling us to be。
more like conduits and allow the Holy Spirit to work through us, to flow through us. And this is。
exactly what the gifts and the fruit is all about. In other words, the Holy Spirit does not give you。
gifts and fruit for your personal benefit. The Holy Spirit doesn't give you gifts and fruit to。
make you look good, right? The Holy Spirit doesn't empower us with wisdom so that people will look up。
to you and say, wow, this person is so insightful, so full of knowledge. The Holy Spirit does not。
give you healing so that people can start looking to you to make them healthy of their sickness and。
diseases, infirmities, evil spirits, whatever it is, right? The Holy Spirit doesn't give us patience。
and kindness so that people will say, wow, this is what a good, virtuous person looks like. No,。
the gifts and the fruit are given to us so that the whole entire church, the entire body of Christ。
can come together and say, praise the Lord. The gifts and the fruit being made known among us.。
So people look and say, this is what it looks like when a group of people are worshipping in spirit。
and in truth. The fruit and the gifts and the fruit are given to us so that people can truly。
say, this is God's word being revealed and lived out in this kingdom. This is the kingdom of heaven。
on earth. The gifts and the fruit are given to us so those of us who are tired of our sin can truly。
come to a safe place where conviction and confession and repentance is embraced in our community.。
In other words, it's not about you. Now, I know this sounds a bit harsh, but we really need to。
be careful when we come to the gifts and the fruit so we take the right approach. Because when we。
look at the world, the worldly focus, right? It's so focused on making life about us. The world is。
really good at putting people up on pedestals, glorifying individuals for their gifts and their。
talents. And as a result, we have this sort of weird celebrity culture where people just do so,。
there's such effort and motivation for people just to do something, to go viral, become famous so。
people can look up to them in some sort of way. There are people out there with followers on。
Instagram, more than entire countries. If you go to see some of these celebrities, there's like。
hundreds of millions of followers, more than big countries combined, right? Something that's totally。
not cool one day, right? Just takes one person of influence to do something and then everybody。
wants a piece of that action. We spend time, money, effort going to shows and concerts for。
our favorite music, artists and bands. I'm not saying don't go to those things. I'm just saying。
be careful. Because when we lift up people so much and look at their talent so much, we sometimes。
even casually call them, "Oh, these people are like our idols." But what does the Bible say about。
idols, Church? Now, I'm sounding like a party pooper here, okay? "Ellison, where's your funny。
story for this message?" Okay, I don't have one today. I'm sorry. Okay. What I'm saying is, I've。
been saying it, we need to be really, really careful not to let that sort of thinking seep in。
to the body of Christ. Because when it comes to things like the gifts and the fruit of the Spirit,。
especially when we're talking about the gifts in the Church, we too can very easily find ourselves。
lifting up people who we see as gifted, rather than lifting up the name of Jesus. And instead。
for the Church benefiting for the gifts and the fruits, all the benefits and all the recognition。
goes to certain individuals, certain gifts, certain people, right? We've even developed this。
weird like celebrity, past and celebrity worship leader subculture that exists in this thing that。
we call Christianity, where honestly, sometimes it's really hard to say, "Are we lifting up Jesus'。
name or are we lifting up this person's name?" We're like, "Who are we actually praising here?"。
Thank you, Tony. But the Bible has a very different perspective, right? Let's look at 1。
Corinthians 12 together. There are different kinds of gifts, but the same Spirit distributes them.。
There are different kinds of service, but the same Lord. There are different kinds of working,。
but in all of them and in everyone, it is the same God at work. Now to each one, the manifestation。
is given for the, let's say those last two words together, for the common good, right?。
There's this beautiful theological truth that Paul is declaring with these words,。
but the point being made is that the gifts, that everyone's gifts are different,。
but it doesn't mean that one is considered to be better than the other. Why? Well, precisely what。
we've been saying, the gifts are given to us, not for you, us as individuals, but for the sake of。
unity, for the sake of the common good. In fact, the way that these gifts are given reflect the。
unity that we see in the God that we worship, the Father and Son of the Holy Spirit. Look how Paul。
phrases the passage. There are different kinds of gifts, but the same Spirit. Different kinds of。
service, but the same Lord. In everyone, it's different, but it's the same God at work. Holy。
Spirit, Lord Jesus, Father God, all working in unity together to give us the gifts so that the。
church can also reflect and display the same unity that we see in Yahweh that we worship.。
Time and time and time again, the Bible gives a very clear message. So I'll say it again, church.。
It's not about you. It's not about us. Now, again, that's not to say that we cannot honor。
and recognize people at all. They are indeed people who are recognized for the amazing。
things that they have done. And we need to give honor and credit where credit is due.。
There's people that I look up to in my life and I think very highly about. People who I think would。
be really cool to be like that one day. People I've met within this community. I mean, Tony voiced up。
just now, but when I'm Tony's age and I'm half as effortlessly cool as Tony is, I know I've made it。
in life. Right. Tony is a hero of mine. I have Instagram. You know, I scroll through Instagram.。
I follow certain people. I'm inspired by the things that they do. And even within this community,。
right, apart from the obvious things that you see on the stage, right, if we were to get to know the。
people around you, you would know that there is a group of really incredibly gifted people in this。
room. On a staff level, on a volunteers, we have the best worship team in town. Facts. I don't care。
where church you're from. Okay. We have the best worship team in town. Facts. Okay. We have some。
of the best preaching and teaching in town. Okay. Facts. These are just facts. Okay. You can come at。
me if you want. Okay. But the people around us, the community that makes up this church, you'll。
see that the Holy Spirit has given all kinds of gifts to all kinds of people. If we look at the。
scripture, Paul says it like this, "To one that's given through the Spirit a message of wisdom,。
to another a message of knowledge by means of the same Spirit, to another faith in the same Spirit,。
to another gifts of healing by that one Spirit, to another miraculous powers, to another prophecy,。
to another distinguishing spirits, to another speaking in different kinds of tongues, and to。
another the interpretation of tongues." There's several other places where we can find a list of。
spiritual gifts, right? This is not an exhaustive list, and we don't have time to go through each。
and every single of these ones specifically today. But there are a couple of things I want us to。
notice as we look through things like this. Firstly, it's this, they are given to us. They。
are given to us through the Spirit. You don't earn these gifts by being extra super holy, right? You。
can't buy them with money. These gifts are God's way of working through us, equipping us, encouraging。
us, using us for the sake of His kingdom and His glory, right? They are God's idea. They are a。
blessing from God, and God loves giving us gifts. Bible tells us specifically that God is the best。
giver of gifts, and that every good and perfect gift comes from our loving Father in heaven.。
So they're given to us. It's a gift. We don't earn it. And also, as you see, there are many of them.。
It's a long list. And like I said, it's not the only list. There's a variety of gifts and functions,。
and that's a good thing. That's the beautiful thing. So therefore, your gift in the Holy Spirit,。
it's not your supernatural, not your superpower made for everybody to look at you. Your gift。
is your part in the body of Christ. This means that unless you're using your gift to serve the。
Lord, to serve the community of Christ, to serve the body of Christ, the church cannot be all that。
God meant for it to be. Paul will say it like this in Romans 12. "For just as each of us has one body。
with many members, and these members do not all have the same function, so in Christ, though many。
form one body, and each member belongs to the others. We have different gifts according to the。
grace given to us." If your gift is prophesying, then prophesy in accordance with your faith.。
If it's serving, then serve. If it's teaching, then teach. If it's to encourage, then give。
encouragement. If it's giving, then give generously. If it's to lead, do it diligently. If。
it's to show mercy, do it cheerfully. Everybody needs to pitch in because every single person in。
this room, the Bible tells us, has a gift. And therefore, you have a role to play. Again, this。
is important to keep in mind because the danger is, especially when it comes to spiritual gifts,。
we start to see some gifts as better than the others. Which means that some people think that。
they're more important than they actually are, and some people end up thinking they underestimate。
the crucial part that they are to play in God's kingdom. So for example, what's happening right。
here? People being on the stage, speaking, teaching, singing, whatever it is to people。
all throughout the day, right? This is a gift that's often lifted up and seen as highly important.。
But what about the gift of serving? What about the people that held the signs that served you。
by greeting you on the way up to the auditorium this morning? What about the team of hosts that。
passed from the offering buckets just now? What about the communion we're about to take later。
that people had to come in at 7 a.m. this morning to tear up the pieces of bread, to fill up the。
little cups, just so that we can have communion later? Did it cross your mind that our greeters。
and hosts and volunteers play just as critical a part in the body of Christ than the preacher or。
the worship team when it comes to our Sunday services? And I'm just talking about Sunday。
services here. Right, without people who are willing to use the gifts of serving the church,。
none of this would be possible, guys. None. There would be no production team,。
the band would be one or two people, there would be no kids and youth ministry,。
this whole place would be in chaos. But God in His infinite wisdom, in His perfect knowledge。
of His children, in His generosity, He looks at a group like us and then through the Holy Spirit,。
He distributes gifts and expects everyone to use their gifts and play their part so that the whole。
church can function healthily. This is what He's talking about. Again, let's go back to Scripture.。
God has put the body together so that there should be no division in the body, but all the parts have。
equal concern for each other. If one part suffers, every part suffers with it. If one part is honored,。
every part rejoices with it. You see, from a worldly perspective, right, when we get gifts,。
when we give gifts or get gifts, it is something quite personal, right? And you get it with that。
person in mind. Well, hopefully you spare some thought, right? That's a nice thing to do,。
right? To think about that person and get them a gift, right? Birthday, anniversaries, graduations.。
You think about the need, right? And you get something tailored for that person.。
And then when that person receives a gift, there is no expectation to share it.。
I mean, you wouldn't get, you know, if I bought Nathan a new pair of shoes, I would say something。
like, "Okay, hey, you know, those new Jordans are pretty cool, but you have to let me wear them on。
Mondays and Wednesdays, okay?" Apart from the fact they wouldn't fit, it doesn't make sense.。
That's not how gifts work. But when it comes to spiritual gifts, the perspective is different.。
So yes, the personal element is still there. Again, not everyone has the same gift,。
which means when God looks at you as His child, as the person who He knitted together in His。
mother's womb, your God who knows the amount of hairs on your head, He saw you and He gave you a。
gift specifically through the Holy Spirit with you in mind, with His wisdom, with His love,。
with His grace. And when we receive this gift from God, right, there is a sense of closeness。
and intimacy that we feel with the Father and He draws us closer to Him. The thing is after we。
receive that, they are then meant to be shared. These gifts are designed for us to use to help。
those around us. For example, healing is a gift. But I mean, there's only so much healing you can。
do on yourself, right? And then God gives you the gift of healing so that you can have mercy to。
those around you who are in need. He gives you the gift of faith so that when you see someone。
struggling in their season of life, you can come alongside them, say, "I will pray with you. I will。
walk with you. Let's do this together." That's a gift of faith. All these gifts that we get only。
make sense when they're shared amongst the church. So if you find yourself with these gifts,。
the question we should be asking ourselves is not, "How is this gift going to benefit me?"。
That's worldly, fleshly thinking. That's a mistake that dude made when he said to Peter,。
and if you could buy the gift that he saw, that he saw Peter had with money. But what was his。
response? "May your money perish with you because you thought you could buy the gift of God with。
money. You have no part or share in this ministry because your heart is not right before God."。
So let me remind us again, these gifts of the Spirit are given for the common good.。
You see what I'm beginning, you understand what I'm saying now? That it's not about you.。
It's not for one person to stand out at the star, but these gifts are given to us to highlight just。
how much God wants us to serve and to need each other. So this presents a question and a challenge。
to all of us. What is our gift? And once you discover your gift, how are you using it to serve。
the body of Christ, to serve the Lord, to serve the church? Because like I said, everyone has a。
role to play. And I'll just say it plainly, right? Showing up on a Sunday is not a spiritual gift.。
Right? It's not. But do you know your part? Are you playing your part? Listen, okay,。
everybody is welcome here. If you want to just keep coming, we will never turn you away. We。
will always, you will always be welcome here. However, if you've been here a minute and your。
plan is just to keep coming to church on Sunday and nothing else, you're really missing out on。
the full picture of what it means to be part of a body of Christ, to be a Christian, to be a follower。
of Jesus. Right? And this isn't a guilt trip because we need volunteers for JCA and VBS.。
All right. I'm not, I'm just saying what the Bible is teaching us. Okay. It's not.。
So if you don't know the question, you know, how do I find my spiritual gift? Again, it's a good。
question. And we can talk about this all day. Let me just give a few practical pointers in this。
direction. First of all, okay. Don't treat it like an enneagram or a disc or a Myers-Briggs,。
one of those personality tests, that kind of stuff. Okay. Your spiritual gift is not a personality。
test. All right. I mean, there are online tools that might be useful, but I wouldn't even start。
there necessarily. The first step to finding out your part and your gift in the body of Christ is。
to seek God first. Seek first the kingdom and all these other things will then be given to you.。
Right? This means reading your Bible. This means prayer and fasting. This means constant。
confession and repentance. This means developing and nurturing your relationship with Jesus.。
That's the first basic step. The second step was this, right? When you're following Jesus,。
when you feel, when you know that your heart and the desires of your heart have been made pure,。
then you ask, ask the Holy Spirit to show you, where do you want me to serve?。
What is the gift that you've given me? What is my part in the body of Christ? As scripture tells us,。
then when we do that, if we ask anything according to his will, he will hear us.。
One good way to ask is to ask those around you, the people that you trust around you. The other。
people that you know are also in the same journey of following Jesus. Find a community that you。
trust. Talk to people, come along them and say, "Hey, you know, I feel like God has given me a。
gift in whatever. Do you see that in me?" Or maybe ask one of your leaders at the church or whatever,。
say, "I feel like I have the gift of this. Is there something that you've noticed in me that。
you see in me?" Ask, ask the Lord, ask those around you. Thirdly is this, be content.。
So, you know, in those, in the early stages of singing competitions, right? Like Britain's Got。
Talent, all that kind of stuff, right? In the audition stages, there's always these people who。
show up, right, full of confidence, thinking they're like the songbird of their generation.。
But in reality, when they start to sing, right, it's not that good, right? And you end up with,。
you know, that the Ken dibby dibby doubt you lady, right? Like you think you have this talent。
and your gift to sing, but actually that's not your gift. And somewhere along the way,。
there've been disillusion or someone has lied to them. You know, maybe they sang in front of their。
mom and the mom's like, "Oh yeah, yeah, you're really good. You're good at everything, son. Okay.。
And you go off, yeah, go do it, do the audition." And you find out actually that's not what you're。
good at. In the same way, right? The Bible does say, ask, earnestly ask and desire the gifts.。
But it also tells us that everything must be done so that the church may be built up.。
So whatever the Holy Spirit has decided to bless you with, trust Him with that, lean into that.。
Again, I'm not saying you can't ask, you can't desire, do those things. The Holy Spirit might。
choose to work in you in that way at some time, but whatever God has given to you,。
trust Him with that, lean into that and serve and work out of that so that when the Spirit is at。
work in your life, He can give you the gift to serve the body of Christ. Now that's a gift of。
the Spirit, the gifts of the Spirit. But the Spirit at work in your life should also grow。
fruit within you. Well, what's the difference? Well, I would say probably that you can look at。
it like this. Gifts are normally for certain times and certain seasons and certain moments.。
Right. For example, tongues again is described as one of the spiritual gifts, right? Every now and。
then in the worship service at the Vine, right, we'll have a gift of tongues and there'll be。
interpretation and, you know, the whole church is strengthened and edified by the gift of tongues.。
But if that were to happen constantly, every day, all the time, right, we wouldn't be able to get。
on to anything else, right? Healing again is certain gifts for certain moments. Every now。
and then we get called to pray for those who are sick and we see healing take place. We've seen。
some very powerful ways the Holy Spirit has worked and healed people from all sorts of things.。
But again, there's a certain time and place for that. That's not to mean that the Holy Spirit。
can't heal when we pray. It just means that the Holy Spirit is choosing not to act in that way。
for that particular moment. But when it comes to the fruit, the fruit isn't something that we see。
every now and then. The fruit of the Spirit is something we constantly need to be growing in.。
This is why Paul says, "Walk by the Spirit." The word walk here isn't talking about like a。
stroll down the beach or a stroll in the park. It's talking about how you live your life,。
the choices you make. And we need to be really careful about this because again,。
the consequences are serious. Galatians 5, check out what Paul has to say.。
"Walk by the Spirit and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the flesh desires what。
is contrary to the Spirit and the Spirit what is contrary to the flesh. They are in conflict。
with each other so that you are not to do whatever you want. Walk by the Spirit and you will not。
gratify the desires of the flesh." It's very clear. Paul's very clear. Scripture's very clear. We've。
felt this too, right? There's a constant battle going on inside of us, outside of us between what。
the flesh wants and where the Spirit is trying to lead us towards. And here's the thing, right?。
The Bible tells us we can't just do whatever we want and call it freedom. It's a bit sort of。
contradictory because if we're being told how to live, right, on one level that sounds more like a。
restriction rather than freedom. But what does freedom in this case actually look like? What。
does freedom in Christ actually look like? Because we talk about freedom a lot. One of the great。
benefits of Christianity and the life in Jesus is freedom. Again, we sing about it, we preach about。
it, we proclaim Bible verses about freedom. "Who the Son sets free is free indeed." Yes and amen.。
But what are we talking about when we talk about freedom? Well, from the worldly, fleshly perspective,。
freedom is the ability to say and think and do and act whatever you like, right? A life with no。
limits and no control. This is how kids think, right? Kids look up to us, our children look up。
to us and they think, "Oh, I can't wait till I'm an adult so I can eat ice cream all day. I can。
melt my brain with TV, you know, and I can just buy any toy I want anytime I want." Right? That is how。
a kid looks at us, right? And see, well, freedom is to be able to do whatever we want anytime we want.。
But even as adults, right, we tend to look at freedom in this way. A life of freedom is if, well,。
I can live on my own terms, right? Isn't that what the world approves of? You deserve it.。
Live life on your own terms, do whatever you want, be free, don't let anybody hold you down. You only。
live once, right? So come on, just go for it. Do it. Doesn't matter. Now, life this way might sound。
appealing. The only problem is God's Word tells us something quite different. And Scripture warns us。
that freedom in the flesh will lead us to some dark places. Places filled with things like sexual。
immorality, impurity and debauchery, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, discord, jealousy, fits of rage,。
selfish ambition, dissensions, factions, and envy, drunkenness, orgies, and the like. I warn you,。
as I did before, that those who live like this will not inherit the kingdom of God.。
When you read to that list, you know what it sounds like to me? It sounds like chaos and disorder.。
Right? That sounds like everyone out for themselves, not caring about those around them.。
That list sounds like darkness and hatred and evil. It's the road to destruction and。
eternal separation from God. Freedom in the flesh is not true freedom.。
Firstly, it goes against who you were created to be, right? Because you were created to be a human。
being that glorifies himself or herself. You were created to be an image bearer of God. This means。
that you feel your sense and your purpose, not when you're out doing whatever you want, but when。
your life is fully obedient to what Jesus has called you to. That is when you feel most alive.。
That is when you're going to feel most free. That is when you're going to realize what your purpose,。
your destiny, whatever word you want to use in life is. Second thing is this, you end up in a。
terrible place. Paul says it clearly that those who live like this will not inherit the kingdom。
of God. You will have no part in what God's trying to do in this life or the next. In other words,。
you are separated from God now and for all eternity. And free living that leads to chaos。
and separation from God is not freedom at all. Remember what Pastor Andrew said at the beginning。
of this series, that the Holy Spirit is what brings order out of chaos. And this is what he。
wants to do in the body of Christ in our lives. And Paul is about to give us one of the most。
beautiful examples of what a life of order in the Holy Spirit looks like. I would say that this is。
one of the most beautiful pictures of order and of peace and of the way God wants us to live outside。
of Genesis 1. Genesis 1, we have Eden and it's perfect. This is an echo of what God has talked。
to us about in Genesis 1. Listen to what the Bible says. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy,。
peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control.。
Against such things, there is no law. Doesn't this sound a lot more like peace and order?。
Doesn't this sound like the things we want to chase in life? Isn't this what you hope you've。
been created for? Now, there is an important detail to note. And this is important because。
this verse is so well known. Sometimes as Christians, when it comes to this, we like to do。
like a little stock index exchange on this passage. And we begin to think like, "Oh, well, you know,。
I wasn't very kind today, but I did have peace about it." Or, "Well, you know, I didn't show。
much self-control, but you know, there was a lot of joy." Right? It doesn't, don't do this. Okay?。
Doesn't make sense. Right? The fruit of the Spirit is not your stock portfolio. Right? You can't,。
like, if you have lots of gains in one, it doesn't cover the losses in the other. You know what I'm。
saying? Right? Can you really be faithful without being patient? Right? Is there real joy without。
having peace? Right? There's a simple thing. You might already know this. I'm going to remind us,。
right? It's not the fruits of the Spirit. It's the fruit, singular, of the Spirit. Right? If you've。
not heard that before, write it down in your margins. Okay? The fruit of the Spirit. And if。
we're going to grow in the fruit, if we're going to walk by the Spirit, then we're going to have to。
dedicate every part of ourselves in this journey. And again, it's not an easy one.。
The true Christian life, if we're really to follow Jesus with everything we have,。
it's not the easy path to choose. It's the narrow path. Because like we said, your Spirit and your。
flesh are constantly going to be at conflict with each other. There isn't a version of following。
Jesus where we just get to coast and sail off into the sunset, not giving a thought to how we're。
actually supposed to live our lives. No, but it's a life of discipline. Paul calls it, it's a。
training up for godliness. Fruit takes time and effort to grow, right? You can't just plonk a tree。
in some soil and just expect it to do its thing. It takes nurturing. It takes watering. It takes。
nutrients. It takes protection from the elements and other insects. It takes pruning and grafting。
and all that kind of stuff. It just doesn't happen automatically. Which is why in your Christian life,。
it's always going to be about choosing God's way instead of your way. Your old self with its。
attraction to chaos and sin, full of passion and the desires of the flesh, is always going to try。
and draw you back to that place of chaos. The enemy and the devil and his minions and the enemy。
of this world is always trying to use temptation to draw you back into that place of separation。
from God, of living life without the Holy Spirit. This is why we've been saying, we need to deal。
with sin seriously. And when we made the decision to follow Jesus, it means also identifying with。
him in death, which means that our sinful desires, the thing we used to follow in this world, have。
been crucified to the cross with Jesus. There is no space for that in our walk with the Holy Spirit。
now. Okay, again, take a deep breath because it sounds like a lot of pressure. The good news is。
that you don't, or even you cannot do this by your own power. And that's good news.。
And just as the gifts are from the Holy Spirit, the ability to put your flesh to death,。
to grow in the fruit, to walk with the Spirit, that is also something that the Holy Spirit has。
to empower you in. Right? It's repeated multiple times in this passage. We need to be led by the。
Spirit. We need to walk by the Spirit. We need to live by the Spirit. We need to keep in step with。
the Spirit. The Spirit is there to guide, to lead, to hold, to draw you back, to push you forward,。
to help you live this Christian life. And just like we rely on the Holy Spirit to give us our。
spiritual gifts, in the same way, the Holy Spirit helps us to live lives that will bear fruit.。
Now again, this is not self-help. Okay? This isn't about making yourself a better person,。
self-improvement. It's not about becoming more virtuous so people can look at you a certain way.。
This is about dealing with your sin so that you can have a living, working, convicting, obedient。
life, eternity-changing relationship with Jesus. And He is the one who helps you through it.。
"Remain in me," He says, "as I also remain in you. No branch can bear fruit by itself.。
It must remain in the vine. Neither can you bear fruit unless you remain in me."。
A life totally reliant and connected to our Savior, to the whole and to the Holy Spirit.。
This is what true freedom looks like.。
And when we live this way, it tells us there is no law. Right? God's never going to stop you from。
growing in the fruit of the Spirit. No government or authority is ever going to say, "Stop doing。
these things." Right? "These are good, virtuous, amazing things." Right? No, nothing will ever。
stop you from growing in the Spirit. There is no law against these things.。
And so once you've had the fruit, you've tasted and seen that the fruit of the Spirit is good,。
you will begin living in a way that brings true life to yourself and to those around you.。
And as difficult as it may be at times, you will never want to stop growing in them.。
The gifts and the fruit, therefore, go hand in hand.。
You are being called to build up the kingdom of God here on earth as it is in heaven.。
But you're also being called to live lives of holiness and closeness that reflect God's heart。
and who He is. And God expects both His followers to use their gifts and to bear fruit.。
This is Pentecost Sunday, and this is exactly what happens on the day of Pentecost when the。
Holy Spirit first fell upon the followers. This is a beautiful picture of gifts and fruit coming。
together when the early church is first established. Acts 2.43 tells us this, that when the。
Holy Spirit came, everybody was filled with awe at the many wonders and signs being performed by。
the apostles. These are the spiritual gifts that were tongues, healing, all these things that the。
apostles began to minister to other people out of the gifts that the Holy Spirit had given to them.。
But then it goes on to tell us this, that all the believers together had everything in common.。
They sold property and possessions and gave to anyone in need. They continued to meet together。
in temple courts, broke bread, ate together with glad and sincere hearts, praising God and enjoying。
the favor of all the people. And the Lord added to the number daily those who are being saved.。
This is the fruit of the Spirit beginning to grow. Gifts and fruit. That's how the Holy Spirit has。
always wanted to work, has always been working, and how He desires to continue to work today.。
So I'm going to ask everybody to stand. If you're able to stand, please join me in standing.。
And through communion right now, we're going to respond to what God wants us,。
to however God wants us to respond. Our hosts are going to hand out a piece of bread to you.。
When you get the piece of bread, just hold it in your hand because we're going to take it together。
in just a moment. But as you hold the bread, you know, the bread, the church tells us, is a symbol。
of the body of Christ that was given and broken for us. That God came down to earth as Jesus。
and chose to serve. And one of the most beautiful pictures of unity we see is Jesus with His。
disciples. And before Jesus shared this meal, He got down on His hands and His feet and washed。
His disciples' feet, showing them that this is what it's like to be a servant. This is what I'm。
calling you to. And so as you hold the bread in your hand, have that conversation with the Holy。
Spirit right now. Ask Him, "What is my gift and how am I to serve you with what you've gifted me with?"。
Just hold on to this bread and I will take it together in just a minute.。
[Music]。
