So good to worship together. Thank you worship team. As you turn around, say。
hello to somebody as you sit down. Hello, welcome, good to see you. And if you're。
watching online then why don't you give us a message, send a message in the chat。
to say a warm welcome to everyone else online and maybe you're watching and。
just want to tell us where you're watching from, who you're with, how you。
are, anything, tell us anything. We'd love to hear from you. We have an online team。
who always love to engage as well and just to help you feel a little bit more。
connected here with us as well. So if you are watching here for the first time in。
person then we would love to give you a very very warm welcome and so as always。
at the Vine, not to embarrass you but because we are very friendly people,。
would you give us a wave? We'd love to see you if it's your first time. I know。
for some of you it's your first time because I met you earlier and welcome,。
welcome, good to see you. And if you're watching online and it's the first time。
joining us then we would also love to hear from you and we have an eConnect。
card that you can scan the QR code and we will be in contact with you. So for。
those of you that are visiting in person here we do have a connect hub which is。
just outside the auditorium and there Jennifer and her team would just love to。
talk with you, tell you a little bit more about who we are, answer some questions。
maybe that your friend that brought you can't answer, tell you more about who and。
what we do. A lot happens here at the Vine and we would love to share that。
with you and a very warm welcome. And for those of us that have come back that。
have been you know away for a while or now you're back visiting, it's good to see。
you as well. I know many people are coming back from their summer holidays。
as well which is great. If you're here in person then you've finished quarantine,。
yes well done. And maybe for some of us those watching online you're in。
quarantine as well, you can do it, not long, you can do it right? Yes. So welcome。
everyone. For those of you that have maybe been coming for a little while but。
you're still fairly new and I know over the last six months or so you know we。
have a lot of people that are joining us, we will be holding a newcomers evening。
and that's something that we have done regularly over the years but it's。
something that we haven't done for a while and this is where we have an。
evening where we get to share about who we are, talk about our vision, you'll get。
to meet Andrew our senior pastor and a number of the staff that are working。
here and also at the same time you get to meet some new people and find。
community. It's a place where hopefully you also feel that you can connect and。
as you're learning about the vision and the heart of the vine I think it's。
really important that you understand who we are you know and you know where we。
are going and what our vision is. And so this is a wonderful evening for you to。
join us and so this will happen on Wednesday the 17th of August at 7.30。
here in the auditorium and so if you are interested I do encourage you, you can。
scan the QR code and sign up. We would love to see your faces behind the masks。
of course on the 17th of August. Well as always we'd like to take the。
opportunity to take up our tithes and offerings now as we move into this time。
it's very much part of our worship. You know next week we have VBS and VBS as。
you all know is an incredible children's ministry and it's your giving that。
allows things like VBS to happen and so as we prepare our hearts to give now can。
I also encourage you to be praying for our children next week and the。
volunteers as they serve and all the activities that are taking place but。
more importantly that the truth of who God is will really resonate and take。
root in the hearts of our young people. So throughout the week if you're。
prompted please do pray for VBS we value your prayers. But join me now as we pray。
for our offering. Father we thank you that we get to partner with you and that。
through the generous giving of those in the Vine family the tithes and offerings。
allow us to minister to many many many different people in this city and beyond。
and so father we give you this offering we ask you to bless it and to enable us。
to steward well to ensure that your kingdom continues to grow in Jesus name。
we pray amen. Well as you know we are in the third week of our sermon series。
which is very practical looking through the book of James and it is my privilege。
and pleasure to invite our one of our founding fair view here let me do that。
again it is my privilege and pleasure to invite a friend and also one of our。
founding pastors Pastor John Snellgrove to the stage would you give him a warm。
welcome. I can well I can try and pray for you maybe we could all pray here。
watching online as well let's pray let's pray for John. Father we thank you for。
this word we thank you for the truth of this word and father I pray that as your。
scripture tells us truth sets us free and so as John speaks powerfully today。
would you anoint him and would those words really resonate and take root in。
our hearts may they be transformative in Jesus name amen. Can we hear it for Carla。
come on please. Before I start I want to give a shout out to my dear brother。
Pastor Tony Harver two founding senior pastors in the church in want welcome。
Tony. I'll be honest with you I'm not a fan of the aging process to be honest。
Tony it doesn't have a lot going for it does it this is a picture of me just。
before I preached my first sermon at the Vine of senior pastor。
Holland. Now one of the features of a typical day at that time was the。
amount of time I spent in front of the bathroom mirror. Sandra will tell you our。
our mirror was huge and I was grooming myself for yet another day in corporate。
Hong Kong. Shower, hair wash and a shaving regime that meant there was not even a。
bristle out of place. My mirror was a propeller for my day I was ready to take。
on anyone or anything. This is not however the case these days.。
Grey hairs, wrinkles, facial hairs growing out of strange places like my ears and。
am I allowed to say no. Not enough hair to blow dry or gel. As a result my trip。
to the mirror these days is fleeting and I just allow my beard to grow my grey。
beard to be precise and then promptly get stuck into my day. In truth I am not。
taking any notice of what I see in the mirror. James picks something of this up。
in his next passage. Verse 22. Do not merely listen to the word and so deceive。
yourselves. Do what it says. Anyone who listens to the word but does not do what。
it says is like someone who looks at his face in the mirror and after looking at。
himself goes away and immediately forgets what he looks like. But whoever。
looks intently into the perfect word that gives freedom and continues in it。
not forgetting what they've heard but doing it they will be blessed in what。
they do. I'll be honest with you I don't want you to listen to this sermon.。
Let me rephrase this careful I just realized that some of you are doing the。
wordle now right. I don't want you just to listen to this sermon and to be。
honest I don't really care whether you like it or not. Whether you give me a 7。
or an 8 or a 4.5 must do better. It is not enough to hear the word we must do。
it. I'm gonna say that again in case I can get an amen right okay. It is not。
enough to hear the word we must do it. That was pretty good. Many people have。
the mistaken idea that hearing a good sermon or going to a Bible study is what。
makes them grow and gets God's blessing. But I'm here today to tell you it is not。
the hearing but the doing that brings the blessing. It has been said too many。
Christians mark their Bibles but their Bibles never mark them. If you think you。
are spiritual because you hear the word you're just kidding yourself. Real faith。
means real obedience. Lots of people consider themselves spiritual but not。
nearly as many approach God's Word or his teaching with a commitment to。
obedience. Many have what James calls faith without works. Oh they believe oh。
yes but their lives are not changed by what they believe. The book of James。
tells us to be doers. Doers of what God says and not just hearers. Let me put it。
another way to marry our talk with our walk. Let me go back to my mirror. The。
main purpose of owning a mirror is examination. To be able to see yourself。
and make yourself look as clean and neat as possible. As we look into the mirror。
of God's Word we see ourselves as we really are. And James mentions there are。
several mistakes that people make as we look into God's mirror. The first one is。
this they merely glance at themselves. They do not carefully study themselves。
as they read the Word. I mean we've been taught haven't we from an early age。
about the daily quiet time. Now there's nothing wrong with that I'm not knocking。
that but for so many and I've seen it it's become like a tick box. Get it over。
with tick the box and move on with your day. Many sincere believers read a chapter。
or so of the Bible each day but it is only a religious exercise. My daily quiet。
time. And they fail to profit from it personally. Oh yes they feel guilty。
really guilty if they do not do their daily reading but actually their。
conscience should bother them because they read the Word carelessly. Let me say。
this a cursory read of the Bible will never reveal our deepest needs. I would。
say it's the difference between taking an iPhone photo and an x-ray. The second。
mistake is that they forget what they see. If they were looking deeply enough。
into their hearts what they would see would be unforgettable.。
Remember how biblical characters responded to the true knowledge of their。
own hearts. Isaiah "Woe is me" he said "I'm ruined for I'm a man of unclean lips."。
Peter said to Jesus "Go away from me Lord I'm a sinful man." And Job probably the。
most righteous man on earth in his day yet he confessed he said "Therefore I。
despise myself and repent in dust and ashes." On to mistake number three. They。
fail to obey what the Word tells them to do. They think their hearing is the same。
as doing. It is not. We Christians enjoy substituting reading for doing. Even。
talking for being. We attend conferences don't we on topics like evangelism,。
church growth and think we've made progress. Now don't get me wrong I love。
church conferences but they are no substitute for service. James 1 25 tells。
us if we are to use God's mirror profitably then we must gaze into it。
carefully. He uses the word intently. Quick glances will not cut it. I'm not。
talking about whiskers here. We must examine our own hearts and lives in the。
light of God's Word. My friends this requires time, attention and sincere。
devotion. Five minutes or so with God each day will never accomplish a deep。
spiritual examination. For the past 15 years I've had the same GP in Hong Kong.。
His name is Conrad. He is a specialist in geriatric medicine. That means old people.。
Why am I still with him? I'll tell you even in a full waiting room and he does。
have a full waiting room. He always spends time with me and has never seemed。
in a hurry and he has always told me the truth. For example he was not afraid to。
diagnose my clinical depression. This is what he said to me compared to my other。
patients. Remember they're geriatrics. Compared to my other patients you don't。
seem depressed. But compared to you, you are. He knew me. Without knowing me he。
could not have said this. When Jesus the great physician examines us he uses his。
Word and he wants us to give him sufficient time to do the job well.。
Perhaps one reason we glance into the Word instead of gazing into the Word is。
that we're afraid of what we might see. After seeing ourselves we must remember。
what we are and what God says and we must do the Word. The blessing comes in。
the doing not in the reading of the Word. Can I say it again? The blessing comes in。
the doing and not in the reading of the Word. Why did James call the Word of God。
the perfect law that gives freedom? Because when we obey it God sets us free.。
Look at this from John chapter 8. "If you hold to my teaching you really are my。
disciples. Then you will know the truth and the truth will set you free." But I。
love this guy James. I mean he's not gonna let up on this subject right?。
There's an interval that comes up. He does a half a chapter on taming the。
tongue and favoritism and now he is going for the jugular again. What good is。
it my brothers and sisters if someone claims to have faith but has no deeds?。
Can such faith save them? Suppose a brother or sister is without clothes and。
daily food. If one of you says, "Oh go in peace, keep warm and well fed. I'll put。
you on the prayer list." You know but does nothing about their physical needs. What。
good is it? In the same way faith by itself if not accompanied by action is。
dead. But someone will say, "Hey you have faith I have deeds. Show me your faith。
without deeds and I will show you my faith by my deeds." You believe there is。
one God? Good! Even the demons believe that. Shut up. You foolish person. You want。
evidence that faith without deeds is useless? Was not our father Abraham。
considered righteous for what he did when he offered his son Isaac on the。
altar? You see that his faith and his actions were working together and his。
faith was made complete by what he did. And the scripture was fulfilled that。
said Abraham believed God and it was credit to him as righteousness and he。
was called God's friend. You see that a person is considered righteous by what。
they do and not by faith alone. In the same way was not even Rahab the。
prostitute considered righteous for what she did when she gave lodging to the。
spies and sent them off in a different direction? As the body without the spirit。
is dead so faith without deeds is dead. Wow my friends faith is a key doctrine。
in the Christian life. Scripture tells us doesn't it that a sinner is saved by。
faith and the believer must walk by faith. It says without faith it's。
impossible to please God and whatever we do apart from faith is sin. I love。
Hebrews chapter 11 the great gallery of men and women of faith. It starts off now。
faith is the confidence in what we hope for and the assurance about what we do。
not see. In this chapter we meet men and women who acted on God's Word no matter。
what price they had to pay. Faith is not a feeling that we will somehow work up.。
Faith is confidence that God's Word is true and conviction that acting on that。
Word will bring his blessing. Verse 6 I've read it already without faith it's。
impossible to please God. In the passage that I just read James discusses the。
relationship between faith and works. This is an important discussion for if。
we are wrong in this matter we jeopardize our eternal salvation. This is。
why it's so important you being in church today you being online today and。
it leads me to some questions. What kind of faith really saves a person? Is it。
necessary to perform good works to be saved? How can a person tell whether or。
not he is exercising true saving faith?。
James answered these questions in these verses and he said to us there are three。
three kinds of faith only one of which is true saving faith. And the first one。
is this dead faith. I read it earlier what good is it if someone claims to have。
faith but has no deeds? Can such faith save them? Suppose a brother or sister is。
without clothes or daily food. If one of you says to them go in peace bless you。
keep warm keep well fed and does nothing about their physical needs what good is。
it? In the same way faith in itself if not accompanied by action is dead. People。
with dead faith substitute words for deeds. Oh they talk a great spiritual。
language. Oh they might be experts at Bible memory verses but their walk does。
not measure up to their talk. And Jesus gives a simple illustration. A poor。
believer comes into the fellowship like this without proper clothing and in need。
of food. The person with dead faith noticed the visitors but did not do。
anything to meet his needs. All he did was give a few pious words. We'll put you。
on the WhatsApp chat group we'll pray for you you know. Go in peace keep warm。
and be well fed. But the visitor went away just as hungry and just as naked as。
they came in. To help a person in need is an expression of love and faith works by。
love. The Apostle John emphasized this aspect of good works. I love this. If。
anyone has material possessions and he sees a brother or sister in need but has。
no pity on them how could the love of God be in that person? Dear children let。
us love with words. Let's not love with words or speech but with actions and in。
truth. The priest and the Levite in the parable of the Good Samaritan each had。
religious training but neither of them neither of them paused to assist the。
dying man. This guy was dying at the side of the road. I'm sure the priest and the。
Levite probably both PhDs could have astounded us by delivering a good。
powerful sermon full of biblical references. Yet neither demonstrate that。
faith in loving works. I want to ask a leading question. One you might want to。
talk about in your community groups this week. Can the kind of faith that is never。
seen in practical works save us? Can the kind of faith that is never seen in。
practical works save us? And my answer and one that I believe is supported by。
Scripture is no. Look at what James said. In the same way faith by itself if not。
accompanied by action is dead. Now you might ask is that contradicting Paul and。
especially Romans which teaches justification by faith? How many times。
does Paul say it is by faith that you are saved? A great question. I'm gonna。
turn to the great theologian John Calvin for an answer. He said this, "It is faith。
alone that justifies but faith that justifies can never be alone." That's good。
isn't it? James says it in a similar way. He says true saving faith can never be by。
itself. It always brings life and life produces good works. The person with dead。
faith has only an intellectual experience. He knows the right words but。
he does not back up his words with his works. Three times, three times James says。
in this passage he warns us faith without works is dead.。
Vine Church, growing big people does not simply mean growing your spiritual IQ.。
Dead faith is not saving faith. Dead faith is counterfeit faith and lulls a。
person into a false confidence of eternal life. James as he always does he。
steps it up another gear. He wanted to shock his complacent readers so he used。
demons as his illustration. Let's read it, "But someone will say you have faith I。
have deeds but show me your faith without deeds and I will show you my。
faith by my deeds. You believe there is one God good even the demons believe。
that and they shudder." Now this might raise a question amongst some of you.。
Pastor John, can we really believe these days in the existence of demons and。
unclean spirits? Well the Bible is clear that such creatures do indeed exist. On。
52 separate occasions in the New Testament we have references to demons。
and there are another 23 references to unclean spirits. But does it come as a。
shock to you that demons have faith? I mean what do they believe? For one thing。
they believe in the existence of God. They're not atheists, they're not。
agnostics. They also believe in the deity of Christ. Whenever they met Christ on。
this earth they bore witness to his sonship. They believe in the existence of。
a place of punishment and they recognize Jesus Christ as the judge and they。
submit, they submit to the power of his word. This verse 19 is quite interesting.。
James said, "You believe that there is one God." It may have been a reference to one。
of the central ideas of Judaism. Known as the Shema, it is found in Deuteronomy 6。
4, "Hear O Israel, the Lord our God is one." Every one of James's Jewish leaders would。
have grown up agreeing with that truth and they say this every day if not。
several times a day. But James's point is this, it is not enough just to agree. Can。
I like level with you? Those who put talk about God but fail to act in ways。
consistent with their belief, those people are put in the same category as。
demons. It means knowing but not trusting. It means dead faith rather than saving。
faith. The danger of this condition is that someone that we might describe as a。
religious person can spend their entire lives in simple agreement without ever。
crossing into true and living faith. My friends, this looks bleak but don't。
despair. James has the answer. He has introduced us to two kinds of faith that。
can never save the sinner, dead faith and demonic faith. He closes the passage by。
describing the only kind of faith that can save the sinner, dynamic faith. Look。
at this slide. Dynamic faith is faith that is real. Dynamic faith is faith that。
has power. Dynamic faith results in a changed life and James describes this。
true saving faith. To begin with, dynamic saving faith is based on the Word of God.。
We receive our spiritual rebirth through God's Word. We receive the Word and it。
saves us. James points out the true saving faith leads to action. My friends,。
dynamic faith does not stop at intellectual agreement. It leads to。
obedience on the part of the wheel. And this obedience is not an isolated event.。
It continues throughout life. It leads to works. Where there is dynamic faith, where。
there is saving faith, you will always find good works. And James gives a。
perfect illustration. He illustrates his doctrine in the life of two well-known。
Bible persons, Abraham and Rahab. You couldn't find two more different people.。
Abraham was a Jew. Rahab was a Gentile. Abraham was a godly man. But Rahab was a。
sinful woman, a harlot. Abraham is described as the friend of God, whereas。
Rahab belonged to the enemies of God. So what did they have in common? Both。
exercised saving faith in God. The Bible tells us Abraham did not work for his。
righteousness. He received it as a gift from God. He was declared righteous by。
faith. He was justified by faith. Please read Romans chapter 4. Justification is。
an important doctrine in the Bible. But my question, how do you tell if a person。
is justified by faith, if faith is essentially a personal thing between。
that person and God? Abraham's example answers that important question. The。
justified person has a changed life and obeys God's will. His faith is。
demonstrated by his works. James then goes on to another event in Abraham's。
life, an event that took place many years after Abraham's conversion. The event is。
the offering up of Isaac on the altar at Genesis 22. You know the story, don't you?。
Isaac was the promised son, born to Abraham when he was over 90. And his wife。
Sarah, who had been barren, was over 80. But God wanted to see if Abraham was。
willing to sacrifice his son. I believe this. Abraham was not saved by obeying。
God's difficult command, but his obedience proved that he already was。
saved. James puts it like this in verse 22. You see that his faith and his actions。
were working together, and that his faith was made complete by what he did. This is。
a perfect relationship between faith and works. As someone expressed it, Abraham。
was not saved by faith plus works, but by a faith that works. I love that, don't you?。
Simon Gray, you weren't saved by faith plus works, but saved by a faith that。
works. That's true for all of us. His second illustration is Rahab, and the。
background is Joshua 2 and Joshua 6. The story here is that Israel was about to。
invade the Promised Land and take the city of Jericho. Joshua sent spies in the。
city to lay hold of the land, and they met Rahab, a harlot, a prostitute, who。
protected them and affirmed that she believed in what God had said and what。
God was going to do. When the men departed, they promised to save her and。
her family when the city was taken, and this they did. This is an exciting story.。
But in it, it is one of Bible's great examples of saving faith. Rahab even。
appears in the chapter as a hero of faith in Hebrews 11. Rahab exercised。
dynamic faith. Her mind knew the truth. Her heart was stirred by the truth, and her。
will acted on that truth. She proved her faith by her works. I mean, this is。
amazing. I mean, we told who this woman is, and you realize she only had a small。
amount of information. When we realize that, you can see how truly marvelous her。
faith really was. Now today, 2022, we, you and I, have the full revelation of God。
through His Word and His Son. We live on the other side of Calvary. We have the。
Holy Spirit, and we welcomed Him, didn't we? We have the Holy Spirit to convict。
and teach us the Word. And Luke 12, 48 says this, "For everyone who has been。
given much," I think it's fair to say we've been given much, "much will be。
demanded." My friends, the mature Christian practices the truth. His faith is not the。
dead faith of the intellectuals. It's not the demonic faith of the fallen spirits.。
It is instead the dynamic faith of men like Abraham and women like Rahab, faith。
that changes a life and goes to work for God. I've said a lot this morning. I'm。
gonna give James the last words. Verse 26, "As the body without the spirit is dead,。
so faith without deeds is dead." Faith without deeds is dead. May we examine our。
hearts and lives to make sure that we possess true saving faith, dynamic faith.。
As I ask the band to come up, maybe just close your eyes for a minute. I believe。
this is a time of reflection. It's a time of searching. It's not time to be thinking。
what you're gonna be having for lunch. Just search your heart. Is my faith dead,。
demonic, or dynamic? What I want to do is I want to pray a verse over you. It's a。
verse from the Psalms. From Psalm 139. "Search me, O Lord. Search me, O Lord, and。
know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts and see if there is any wicked。
way in me and lead me in the way everlasting."。
We're gonna do something different as we come to the final song. I'm not gonna ask。
you to stand. I'm gonna ask you to stay in this posture of reflection. I'm gonna。
ask you to gaze in the mirror, your spiritual mirror.。
There may be people here today or online where actually you gaze in the mirror.。
You need to come back to the cross of Jesus.。
You need to offer your life to Jesus afresh.。
For years all you've had is an intellectual faith. It's in your head.。
I believe there's no limit to what God will do with a church that does what it。
believes. As we pray for ourselves, let's pray for our church. Let's pray for our city.。
(music)。
Holy Spirit is here. Just ask Him to come to you again.。
(music)。
The Holy Spirit is not just about us feeling good, getting goose bumps, having。
experiences. Nothing wrong with any of those. But if it's not manifested in us。
going out from this building onto the streets of Hong Kong and practicing what。
we've heard in here today. That the Holy Spirit would say to you, "Have you been。
gazing in the mirror?" That person on the MTR there needs someone to go and talk。
to them. They're really struggling. That friend of yours needs a telephone call。
with all the things they've been going through.。
(music)。
That person needs you to open your wallet and give them some money for lunch.。
Otherwise they won't get lunch today.。
Just be open to the Holy Spirit telling you how what we've heard this morning。
can be put in practice. And what a difference it would make to our city, to。
our world that is becoming so much more individualistic about me, myself, and I.。
I pray that as we sing this song together, God is going to give each one。
of you, by His Holy Spirit, fresh eyes. Fresh eyes to see the world differently.。
We've got to stop seeing the world through our own eyes, our own needs.。
Faith without works is dead.。
Bye.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
