our hearts be in tune with your spirit.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
- Amen, thank you, Carla.。
Good morning, everybody.。
How are you guys doing?。
Good, well, we are starting a brand new series。
and I wanna kick this off by telling you a story。
of, I think, when was it?。
July 3rd, 2018.。
I had this experience, this really big,。
life-changing, life-altering, hit-me-at-my-core。
kind of experience, an experience, an encounter, actually,。
that has stayed with me every day,。
literally every day since.。
It has shaped who I am in so many ways.。
It has given me things to think about.。
It was unexpected, things didn't go according to plan,。
but it stuck with me.。
I wanna share with you about the time I had dinner。
with Pastor Jethro.。
Who's sitting over there?。
So let me tell you about Jethro.。
Back in 2018, I was new to the Vine.。
I had been here for a few months, maybe,。
and I was a worship pastor, and I was learning the ropes。
and trying to get to know everyone here.。
So Jethro was a core team member.。
He was the best keyboard player on the team,。
and I'm like, "I'm gonna get to know Jethro.。
"I'm gonna learn some things about this team."。
So I asked him to dinner, and we're texting back and forth,。
like us young people do, and I'm like,。
"Yo, Jeth, let's have dinner."。
He's like, "All right, cool.。
"Where do you wanna go?"。
So this is my version of the story.。
You can fact-check me later if Jethro says otherwise,。
but what happened was I texted him.。
I'm like, "LCK, okay?"。
Now, if you spend all your time on Hong Kong Island,。
you don't know what LCK is, but if you ever go to Kowloon,。
LCK stands for Lai Chi Kok, right?。
That's where I used to live.。
That was my hood.。
All the CIS teachers are clapping。
'cause that's their hood as well.。
So I say, "LCK, okay?"。
And that was the last of kind of。
what I thought the conversation was.。
I don't know, about 30, 45 minutes, an hour later,。
I get a message from Jethro and it says,。
"I'm in Wan Chai."。
I'm like, "What's wrong with Jethro?"。
I'm just getting to know him.。
I'm like, "What's his issue?"。
So I look at my phone and I'm like,。
"Why are you in Wan Chai?"。
He goes, "Dinner, dot, dot, dot, question mark,"。
with a little creepy eye emoji.。
So then I go back and I'm like,。
"Why is he thinking we're supposed to be in?"。
So I go back to my messages.。
I'm about to call him out and be like,。
"Buddy, learn how to read."。
So I'm scrolling through and I'm like,。
"Oh no."。
I realized that I had been a victim of autocorrect.。
See, I had typed L-C-K, okay, right?。
So L-C-K, okay.。
What came out was, "Pick," P-I-C-K.。
So Jethro did that.。
He picked.。
And he picked Wan Chai.。
And I was in, and apparently I actually agreed to this.。
So he went back and read the messages。
and apparently I'm not thinking when I'm responding.。
He's like, "Yeah, yeah, sure, sure, sure, whatever."。
So I'd actually agreed to the thumbs up。
to coming to Wan Chai.。
And I'm standing in Lychee Cog, MTR, waiting for Jethro.。
He's in Wan Chai waiting for me.。
And Jethro being the saint that he is,。
leaves Wan Chai and goes all the way to Lychee Cog.。
Let me explain.。
He was in Science Park up in Taipo,。
came all the way down to,。
yes, feel bad for him.。
I'm a terrible friend.。
That's the moral of the story.。
But regardless, this has never left me。
because Jethro to this day still judges me for my typos,。
regularly coming at me about the typos that I have,。
whether it's in the WhatsApp message or in like an email,。
anything, he's always looking at my typos.。
It's the one thing he focuses on.。
To the point where my birthday was this past Thursday.。
I turned 34 and I'm excited。
and I get my first happy birthday。
and it's from my friend Jethro, which is great.。
But then online, so that everyone can see it,。
he posts this beautiful post.。
Thanks for coming into my life and staying into my life.。
But in that same post, he's like,。
"I love you, typos and all."。
The shade, y'all.。
Like he just has not left me alone.。
This was not just an experience.。
It was an encounter with Jethro and with proofreading。
and with autocorrect.。
And let me just say, I have learned my lesson,。
or I try at least,。
I think I still have some typos here and there.。
But it stayed with me.。
I share this because it was more than an experience.。
It was an encounter.。
It's something that has actually shaped me.。
I really do think about what I text and I do go back。
and if I'm meeting someone somewhere,。
I double check where it's at, right?。
It has stayed with me, it has shaped me in a certain way.。
And encounters do this to us all.。
When we have a big, meaningful encounter, it shapes us.。
It redirects us.。
It changes our perspective to some extent.。
And when we have encounters with God,。
well, that changes us even more.。
It seems like the impacts that come from an encounter。
with God somehow are more magnified.。
They are multiplied to a higher degree.。
When we have an encounter with God,。
it shapes our intimacy with him.。
It helps us to get to know him better.。
When we have an encounter with God,。
we get shaped and molded more into his likeness.。
We become more like him when we encounter him.。
These encounters help us see God more clearly.。
These encounters help us shake lies。
that we once believed about ourselves.。
It helps us shake delusions and stand on truth.。
Encounters with God is important.。
It's very important 'cause the effects of an encounter。
with God can last with us for the rest of our lives.。
The effects of our encounters with God show us。
that we don't have to solely rely on ourselves to get by.。
It's not just us looking out for us.。
In an encounter with God, God encounters us。
to show us that we are not alone in this and all that we do.。
So with this in mind,。
we've designed this five-week sermon series。
to look at five very familiar passages in the Old Testament,。
some key biblical figures that you might have heard of,。
might have read before,。
and their encounters,。
hoping that as we look and see the moments。
where God showed up,。
it would encourage us to allow God to show up。
in unexpected ways at unexpected times in our lives。
'cause it seems like when we allow those things to happen,。
we get changed at our core.。
I pray that it allows you to posture yourself。
as we study these encounters。
to become open to a holy disruption。
that will shake who you are to the core of who you are.。
Does that sound okay?。
So that's where we're gonna be going.。
So let me just bring this up to us。
and kind of give us a good working definition。
of an encounter.。
Encounters with God are these impactful moments,。
oftentimes unexpected, unprepared for, unanticipated,。
yet they end up changing us,。
helping us see God more truly for who he is。
and who we are, giving us strength,。
giving us confidence and resolve.。
This is what an encounter of God can do.。
But it's good to know that encounters。
don't all look the same.。
They don't all happen the same way.。
Encounters aren't just limited to certain kinds of people.。
I think by nature we might think an encounter with God。
must mean that we are living rightfully。
and we are the most holy of people.。
But encounters of God we'll see range from men to women。
to priests to sinners to liars to anybody.。
So many people can encounter God.。
And I say that because I want you to know。
that you don't have to have all your stuff together。
to have an encounter with God.。
You don't have to be a certain level of Christian。
to encounter God.。
Like I said, encounters don't all take place。
in the same way.。
Some encounters take place in a cave.。
Some encounters take place on mountaintops.。
Some encounters take place in the flames。
of Nebuchadnezzar's furnace.。
Some encounters take place in the temple.。
Some encounters take place in the room.。
Some encounters take place at the Ford of Jabbok.。
Crossing over and exist with the wrestling of God.。
So today our first encounter we're gonna look at。
is a man who is a liar, who's a thief,。
who swindles, who doesn't have it all right,。
who cheats to get ahead.。
We're gonna look at the man called Jacob today.。
Jacob's, well, there's a Jacob here.。
I'm sorry, bro.。
Jacob has a wild story.。
He's a twin.。
He's a younger brother, right?。
And God would tell his mother that the youngest son。
would lead the oldest.。
I think the verbatim is the oldest will bow down。
and submit to the younger one.。
This was Jacob's prophecy.。
This was counter-cultural.。
This wasn't normal.。
Normally the inheritance and the blessing。
goes to the oldest son, but Jacob as a twin。
ends up being the second son, and there's a promise。
that he would be the one to carry it forward.。
And it's important that we understand Jacob's name。
'cause names mean something.。
Names are not just, you know, what's popular,。
top 100 girl names or guy names this year.。
Names were super significant.。
You named someone something because you wanted。
to see something in them or in a response to a promise。
or because God had done something.。
So your name was a sense of your identity.。
A name was a sense of foreshadowing or reputation.。
And Jacob's name would mean the supplanter。
or the heel grabber because, silly enough,。
when he came out of the womb,。
he was holding on to his brother's heel.。
So his parents saw that and they're like,。
"Oh, this guy's ambitious.。
"We're gonna call him Jacob."。
And that would be his name.。
In Genesis 26, God would tell Rebecca。
that the children wrestle and struggle inside of you.。
Jacob would earn the full aspect of his name later on,。
which I think some of us who are familiar。
would think Jacob means deceiver.。
So for those of us familiar with the story,。
Jacob tricks his older brother Esau.。
He deceives him into selling his birthright for some stew,。
for some stew.。
I mean, talk about a low bar.。
So his brother sells his birthright.。
Jacob ends up taking it.。
Jacob ends up lying in the inheritance swap。
and he takes what was, I guess, meant for his brother.。
And Esau would say this in his complaint.。
"Is he not rightly named Jacob?。
"For he has cheated me these two times.。
"He took away my birthright and behold,。
"he has taken away my blessing."。
Jacob is a deceiver.。
He's the one who steals to get ahead.。
He's the one who cheats to get to first place.。
He supplants or trips up his brother.。
He wrestles him in the womb, wrestles him in birth,。
and wrestles him in their relationship.。
But don't worry, it gets better.。
Jacob is holistic in his wrestling.。
He doesn't just leave it to his brother.。
He continues wrestling in other aspects of his life.。
His brother wants to kill him。
because he has taken what belonged to him.。
So Jacob runs and flees and he meets this woman。
named Rachel, beautiful woman, I guess,。
because he's willing to enter into a contract。
to work seven years so that he can marry her.。
The story goes he works seven years。
and he thinks he's gonna get Rachel.。
On the wedding day, he actually doesn't get Rachel.。
The dad tricked him.。
The dad deceived him.。
The dad wrestled with him.。
And actually he gives him the other daughter, Leah.。
And Jacob's annoyed because, Bible says this,。
Rachel was the beautiful one, Leah was not so much.。
So he couldn't get Rachel because he had just gotten Leah.。
So the father's like, well, if you want Rachel,。
I'm not gonna give you both of my daughters for one price.。
You have to work another seven more years.。
So Jacob's been working for 14 years。
just to get the thing he thought he deserved.。
Wrestling.。
And it continues.。
His land and his property, his sheep and his cattle end up,。
him and Laban live in the same area.。
They've decided to separate into two parts of the space。
so that there would be no mixing。
and all of Laban's things would be Laban's,。
all of Jacob's things would be Jacob's.。
But all of Jacob's cattle are bigger and stronger。
and look better and look healthier than Laban's,。
which creates conflict between him and his father-in-law.。
Wrestling.。
This theme of wrestling just continues。
and continues for Jacob.。
He wrestles with Esau.。
He wrestles with Laban.。
He uses strategy to try and figure out。
how do I get myself out of these situations?。
How do I get what I deserve?。
He fights, he wrestles.。
This is just his life at this point.。
But it would appear that God wanted more。
from him and of him.。
And so when we take a look here at Genesis 32。
where we have that famous encounter,。
starting at verse 22 it says this.。
The same night he, speaking of Jacob, arose,。
took his two wives, his two female servants,。
and his 11 children, crossed the ford at Jabbok.。
He took them and sent them across the stream。
and everything else that he had.。
And Jacob was left alone.。
And a man wrestled with him until the breaking of the day.。
When the man saw that he did not prevail against Jacob,。
he touched his hip socket and Jacob's hip。
was put out of joint as he wrestled with him.。
Then he said, "Let me go, for the day is broken."。
But Jacob said, "I will not let you go。
"unless you bless me."。
And he said, "What is your name?"。
He said, "Jacob."。
Then he said, "You shall no longer be called Jacob,。
"but Israel, for you have striven with God。
"and with men and have prevailed."。
Then Jacob asked him, "Please tell me your name."。
But he said, "Why is it that you ask my name?"。
And there he blessed him.。
So Jacob called the name of this place Peniel,。
saying, "I have seen God face to face,。
"and yet my life has been delivered."。
What has happened in this moment?。
Just a little bit of more context。
so that we really get this wrestle,。
because this is a massive encounter with God.。
This is an orthodox encounter with God,。
and we have to understand.。
So Jacob is getting ready to go back home.。
He's been away from home for all these years,。
and he's carrying his family and all the things he has,。
and he gets word that his brother,。
who hated him, who wanted to kill him, was ahead of him.。
So naturally, that scares him.。
Then the word gets worse.。
His brother is with 400 men ahead of him.。
Naturally, Jacob gets a little nervous,。
slows down a little bit, and thinks,。
okay, well, what do I do?。
I have a wife, I have two wives, I have kids,。
I have 11 children, I have all this stuff.。
How are we gonna make it if my brother。
wants revenge for what I've done?。
He is in a desperate, broken moment.。
So he gets clever.。
He sends some of his best stuff ahead.。
He goes, take this to Esau.。
When you see Esau say, these are gifts from Jacob.。
So he tries to use a little bit of cleverness, strategy,。
maybe not trickery, but a little bit of deceit.。
He doesn't really wanna give him gifts,。
he just doesn't wanna get killed, right?。
Makes sense.。
He's doing the best that he can.。
He's doing what he thinks he needs to do,。
but he's worried.。
He's at his lowest point here.。
He has all this stuff, yet he still is at this moment of,。
what do I do?。
In tension, in brokenness, the unexpected then happens.。
He's unprepared, and unexpectedly,。
he has this encounter with God in the form of a fight.。
I'm just gonna be honest.。
When I encounter God, I hope he's not trying to fight me.。
That must have been a moment.。
But how poetically beautiful is it。
that most of Jacob's life has been marked symbolically。
with this aspect of wrestling.。
And when he encounters God,。
his encounter with him is through what?。
Through a wrestle, through a struggle.。
God meets him in a language that he is overly familiar with.。
And the first thing we have to note here。
is how God meets him on these challenging terms.。
The context of his situation were not ideal.。
God meets him here in his mess, in his brokenness.。
When we need him the most, that's when God meets us.。
And I think it's something that we have to keep in mind。
because a lot of us subconsciously live in a way。
that seeks out pleasure and avoids pain.。
But what if it's in the pain。
that God plans to speak the loudest?。
What if it's in the pain。
that God plans on encountering you?。
If our life is constantly avoiding the difficult,。
do we potentially avoid these encounters with God?。
So if you're struggling,。
if you're in a place of brokenness,。
if your life is going less than expected,。
if you've run into unexpected conflict and trouble。
and things just don't seem right,。
if you're in your darkest place,。
if you're in a moment of tension and pain,。
if your circumstances leave you desperate,。
that's an open door for an encounter.。
That's what we see here in Jacob.。
God has a funny way of showing up most clear。
in our darkest hours.。
And so I wonder what would happen。
if in those moments of darkness,。
we sought him instead of running away.。
It leads me to the second thing that I noticed in this story。
and that's around prayer,。
how prayer is essential to an encounter with God.。
So that's exactly what Jacob does.。
In verse nine, he prays.。
It's gonna come up on here.。
I'm just gonna read a couple of points from his prayer.。
He prays to God.。
He says, "You told me to return to my country。
"that you would do good.。
"I'm not worthy of the least of the deeds。
"of your steadfast love and all your faithfulness。
"that you've shown me.。
"For even though when I crossed,。
"when I only had my staff, I crossed the Jordan,。
"and now I have become two camps.。
"Please deliver me from the hand of my brother,。
"from the hand of Esau," listen to this,。
"for I fear him."。
I love that Jacob, when he prays in this moment,。
before he does anything,。
he doesn't have the best words.。
This isn't like super sophisticated big man prayer, right?。
He's not using anything fancy.。
He's just positioning himself authentically。
in front of God.。
He doesn't have to have a seminary degree.。
He doesn't have to have been in church for all his life.。
He's just exposing his heart to God.。
We can do this, right?。
We can just share where we are with God.。
I mean, what would happen if we did this?。
If there's something that's found。
when we turn our dependence on God into a prayer to God?。
What if that's what prayer really is about,。
being honest with him and being honest with yourself,。
that perhaps you've not been worthy,。
but actually God's been good.。
God has done things.。
It's fascinating.。
Jacob is at this point where he might get killed。
and everything he has might be destroyed,。
and he recounts the blessings of God.。
He goes, "When I first got here, God,。
"I just had my staff.。
"I had nothing."。
It's the same concept of,。
I just had the clothes on my back and that's it.。
But now I'm here with two camps.。
He's speaking of the wealth that he's accumulated,。
of family, children.。
He has been blessed.。
And he's thanking God, first and foremost,。
I don't know how it's happened.。
I don't even think I deserve it.。
I've been unworthy of this, but you have been good.。
He recalls the faithfulness of God.。
His desperation does not blind him。
from the reality that God has been there。
and God has been blessing him.。
And then his prayer changes a bit.。
He pours out his heart to God.。
My favorite thing that I learned in this entire passage。
when I was studying it was just,。
I didn't even learn it, I just read it and it hit me hard.。
He says, "I fear him.。
"I fear Esau."。
That is as clear, that is as honest,。
probably as vulnerable as it gets.。
He's raw.。
He's not trying to come up with anything strategic.。
He's not trying to over-spiritualize。
or say it's this or say it's that。
or use some big fancy words.。
He is just being bare in front of God.。
That level of authenticity,。
that level of purely exposing where your heart is,。
no pretentiousness, no big words,。
just showing God your heart.。
What if that's an element to prayer?。
What if that's a powerful part of prayer?。
What if that's the gateway?。
What if that's what kickstarts things in our life?。
Just truly coming before him and being properly honest。
about what it is we feel, about where it is we are.。
See, Jacob, he prays,。
but he doesn't have his big encounter when he prays.。
Think about that.。
He says his prayer and no big moment happens.。
No, the big, the encounter comes。
because he opens himself up.。
He prays, nothing happens.。
In the moment of praying,。
there's no big miracle or anything,。
but praying seemed to open the door.。
Prayer, therefore, is essential to an encounter with God.。
See, after his prayer, I love this as well.。
The Bible doesn't sugarcoat things.。
Genesis is for us broken people.。
Jacob has this prayer.。
He's thanked God.。
He's been honest with God,。
and I think for lots of us,。
we think that if we just do it like that,。
then we'll become a better Christian right away.。
Let's look at this one more time.。
He does all these things.。
He does all the right things in his prayer,。
and then he goes back to strategizing.。
He goes back to leaning on his own strength.。
He goes back to being human.。
Like, he didn't all of a sudden become not human。
all of a sudden 'cause he prayed.。
I think some of us get discouraged 'cause we pray。
and we expect everything to change.。
We just all of a sudden are floating on clouds。
and we're more holy.。
We no longer deal with temptation anymore.。
That's actually not how it works.。
We've got to have the right picture of prayer.。
Sometimes you're gonna pray。
and you're still gonna struggle.。
That's the reality of our life,。
and I'm so glad that's clear in here.。
He leans back on his human tendency。
to control his next steps,。
but he's opened up a door.。
By praying, he's started something.。
He's allowed something to happen,。
and then it does.。
It happens.。
He prayed in the beginning of the night.。
Later in the night, he has his encounter with God,。
and his encounter comes with a wrestle,。
which I think is weird.。
Like, of all the crazy things God can do。
when he encounters you,。
like, I guess for me, sign me up.。
I don't wanna wrestle God.。
I would much rather just have him talk to me。
and tell me who I am, all these things,。
but Jacob ends up wrestling him,。
and I'm pretty convinced Jacob had no idea。
it was God at first.。
It's the dark of night.。
He probably thinks maybe Esau sent somebody。
knowing I was coming to take me out.。
Maybe there's thieves and robbers around。
trying to take my stuff.。
I mean, I'm carrying all this stuff.。
I'm a well-off guy.。
He wrestles this guy, probably in self-defense,。
but at some point, something clicks in his head.。
This isn't human.。
I'm wrestling divinity.。
I am pushing against the creator of the universe.。
He becomes aware that he's wrestling with God,。
and what does he do?。
He doesn't let go.。
He holds on.。
He digs his heels, and he wholly commits himself。
to the fight.。
He holds on more.。
He struggles, he fights, he even gets his hip displaced.。
Fun fact, don't fight God, he'll break your hip.。
That's my takeaway today.。
But even in that space, it seems like that's when。
the change actually starts to begin.。
See, the old Jacob, his strategy, his way,。
his preference in doing things was through deception.。
The old Jacob would have tried to,。
when he realized this was God,。
he would have tried to deceive him.。
He would have tried to supplant.。
He would have tried to trick or try to get ahead。
or get something out of him.。
He would have tried to get his own way,。
but instead, he wrestles him,。
which means he just holds on to him.。
Like, it doesn't say that he beats up God, right,。
or God beats him up.。
He fights with him.。
He's against, he's holding on with all that he has.。
It feels like it's in that moment, he's like,。
"God, if this is you, I have you.。
"I have your attention, you have mine,。
"and I'm not gonna let you go."。
That is his wrestle.。
It's a clinging on to God.。
With his one chance, he stays, he wrestles,。
he's got everything to lose, but Jacob clings to God.。
A clear indicator of his transformation。
in the middle of all of this is that Jacob then asks,。
what do I mean by this?。
Well, so far, Jacob has been really good at taking, right?。
He's been really good at being clever,。
and whatever he thought was his,。
he would reach for it, he would take it.。
Think specifically to the birthright situation.。
There was a whole prophecy around how he would be the one。
who would get the inheritance,。
but when things didn't go the way he thought,。
when it looked challenging,。
when it seemed like it was out of reach。
and God wasn't gonna do anything,。
he took it upon himself to get。
what he thought belonged to him.。
So that would be the natural way。
that Jacob would engage in this space, but he asks.。
He asks.。
I think this is a big thing for a lot of us,。
because a lot of us live lives。
where we've got to take to get what we need.。
No one's really looking out for us.。
If I don't look out for me, who's gonna look out for me?。
And so we strive and we push and we take。
and we reach and we grab.。
If there's an obstacle in front of me and what I need,。
I've got to figure out a way to get it.。
We reach for whatever is around us.。
This is the natural way that our city operates.。
And this is the reality.。
Getting the right things the wrong way。
will never actually satisfy you.。
I mean, think about it.。
Jacob already got the blessing.。
Isaac actually blessed him.。
Esau actually gave away his birthright.。
He's already received the blessing.。
What is he fighting for?。
He's received the blessing, but he's in a moment。
where he's terrified to go forward,。
where his whole world could be lost.。
He's received the blessing,。
but he's petrified to move forward.。
He has a wife and kids.。
He has all the material things.。
He's been blessed, but yet he's in the darkest,。
most tense moment of his life.。
He's taken rather than received.。
And this is actually something that we can trace back。
to the beginning of scripture in Genesis.。
We know that Adam and Eve, that the tree,。
the fruit on the tree looked desirable,。
looked good for eating.。
And when they are deceived, what do they do?。
Rather than going to the maker and asking him for it,。
they reach, they take for themselves.。
They become their own gods.。
And in doing that, they end up wrecking a relationship,。
absolutely breaking the relationship with them。
and God.。
So here's a crazy thought then.。
Maybe the real blessing isn't the things we receive,。
but maybe it's the relationship we open up。
with the one who gives the thing in the first place.。
What if that's the whole thing?。
What if the true blessing is that relationship。
with the one who created it all,。
with the giver of the gift, not just the gift?。
And I think what happens is when we reach,。
we bypass the giver and we get the stuff,。
or at least the best that we can reach for.。
And I wonder how many times in our life。
God is planning to intervene, to meet us where we are,。
to show up, to give us what we need,。
but we end up taking matters into our own hands.。
We end up filling our hands with the things。
that we can reach for, giving us absolutely no space。
to receive the thing he has for us.。
We end up filling ourselves with these lesser store brand。
blessings that really don't fulfill us in the first place.。
We end up becoming our own heroes, our own God.。
We settle for the beta version, not the true thing.。
And Jacob in this moment has had enough of what he can do.。
He's seen what his striving and what his reaching。
has done for him.。
And it's not enough.。
So he reaches this point and in this encounter,。
he asks for the blessing.。
Slight difference.。
He asks for the blessing versus taking the blessing.。
And that changes everything.。
I wonder what it would take for us。
to reach that point as well,。
where we recognize that actually,。
he says, "Knock, the door will be opened.。
"Ask and you will receive."。
The father withholds no good gift from his children.。
He actually says in scripture that if you wicked people。
can give your kids food and good gifts,。
how much more am I gonna give you things?。
Later in the New Testament,。
it says that every good and perfect thing。
comes from the father above.。
He is good and a giver of good stuff,。
but we're not gonna be able to see that.。
We're not gonna be able to receive that。
if we've taken for ourselves the best of what we can grab,。
the best of what we can do.。
This was Jacob.。
This was his dark moment, his lonely moment.。
His encounter was so unorthodox,。
yet his healing was in his wrestle.。
And like he should, like we should,。
he wrestles through the night till dawn and he prevails.。
And what does it mean for him to prevail?。
It means that the old him has gone。
and a new version of him has come.。
He is no longer Jacob the deceiver.。
He is now Jacob the requester.。
He's truly prevailed.。
He has asked and God has blessed him.。
This encounter has been successful.。
God has met with him and he gets blessed,。
but I think there's a couple of details。
we need to really sit on before we continue.。
His situation hasn't changed.。
Has anyone noticed that yet?。
He meets with God as this awesome encounter,。
wrestles God, sees him face to face,。
but he still has a brother that might wanna kill him。
with 400 men.。
And his encounter with God didn't come。
with 400 mercenary angels ready to fight on his behalf.。
It didn't come with extra strength to be able to fight.。
Actually, let's see, what does this encounter actually。
produce that says, "Your name shall no longer be called。
"Jacob, but Israel, for you have striven with God。
"and with men and you've prevailed."。
So in his asking of God, in his big encounter moment,。
he's finally done it all right.。
And what does he get?。
A limp and a new name.。
Take that to the battle.。
How does that even work?。
Think about this.。
It wasn't until Jethro pointed it out。
in our conversation about it.。
This is his point, not mine.。
Jacob is now more vulnerable because he met with God.。
He actually can't defend himself.。
See, sometimes we think if we just pray,。
we're gonna have all the strength to do everything。
and we're just gonna have these results happen overnight.。
What happens when you pray。
and somehow you're more vulnerable afterwards?。
Have you ever felt that way?。
Where you poured out your heart to God。
and your situation hasn't changed immediately?。
Maybe you've walked away with a spiritual limp.。
God gives him a limp and a new name.。
But here's the thing.。
The blessing from his encounter with God。
is gonna be for who Jacob is at the core.。
God blesses him by changing not just his name,。
but now his identity.。
If you remember what I said earlier in this sermon,。
the name is so important.。
The name speaks to who you are.。
It speaks to what you're gonna do.。
It speaks to what you have done.。
It is, in essence, your identity.。
The whole of you can be wrapped up in your name.。
And so now after experiencing and encountering God。
in this way, he's no longer Jacob the trickster,。
no longer Jacob the supplanter, the heel grabber,。
the one who tries to cheat to get ahead.。
He is now Israel, the one who fought and wrestled with God。
and has been changed and prevailed.。
God, in essence, has changed the entirety of who Jacob is.。
God renames him something from their encounter,。
but something for his future.。
Jacob is able to enter this same challenging。
and hard and tense and broken situation,。
all the same that it was,。
but as a completely different person。
with a completely new identity,。
having seen the face of God, put it this way,。
the situation didn't change, but the person did.。
The situation didn't change, but the person did.。
And this had to have an effect on his perspective.。
He had to look at his moment a bit differently now.。
He's walking with this limp yes, but with this swagger,。
'cause he's just seen God, he's just wrestled with God,。
he's just had the source of all good things with him.。
He has struggled with him.。
And all of a sudden, yes, Esau's still there with 400 men,。
but perhaps he's not longer gripped in fear of his brother.。
Perhaps there's a slight easing,。
a confidence that has come because you were with God,。
because you were in his presence,。
because you spent time with him,。
wrestling and contending him.。
Looking now at the situation completely different,。
Jacob can no longer lean on his own strength.。
He literally has to lean on God's ability.。
He literally has to lean on God's strength.。
And the story goes well,。
Jacob ends up going, seeing his brother,。
and his brother's happy to see him.。
That's great.。
That's awesome.。
That's a great, happy conclusion to our story.。
But before we got there,。
before we reached a happy conclusion,。
Jacob is changed and now has a new approach。
with no promises,。
simply based off of his encounter with God.。
This encounter exists to show us something。
of what an encounter of God can do in us and for us.。
How it can change us at our core.。
How it can bring about a divine confidence,。
reposition who we are,。
helping us learn how to lean on his strength。
in times of trouble.。
What we find,。
we find that we must be a people who do two things,。
who pray and a people who wait.。
I'm gonna boil everything down to those two things.。
The people who pray and the people who wait.。
These two things are essential.。
Jacob's encounter only comes after he prays.。
Prayer opened the door.。
I love that he prays early in the night,。
but the encounter doesn't come till later in the night.。
Prayer was his pregame.。
It was his way of opening the channel,。
posturing and positioning himself。
to be able to have that encounter,。
that unexpected meeting with God。
that produced unexpected results.。
Honest prayer is where you thank God, yes,。
but you also pour out your heart to God。
and you don't try to over-spiritualize it.。
You don't try to use the big words.。
You don't try to use Greek and Hebrew.。
You just tell him where you are.。
That kind of prayer is essential.。
This kind of prayer is what God wants for us,。
not from us, because in that it fuels,。
it gives depth to our intimacy with him.。
We spend time with him, we get to know him.。
And it requires that we trust that God hears us。
and that God will never leave us alone.。
It's not our battle to fight on our own.。
And the second thing, Jacob prays, nothing happens,。
but Jacob waits and something begins.。
This is probably the thing you gotta write down。
and keep for this week, all right?。
I think we've got to learn how to do this。
because we live in a society, in a generation,。
in a world of instant gratification.。
We don't have to wait for anything, right?。
Like everything is kind of quick.。
Everything, whatever we need, it's there.。
Life is like instant noodles, just really, really quick.。
Get what you need, get it really quick.。
And if we live this way in every aspect of our lives,。
we potentially take this way of thinking。
into our spiritual life.。
So when we go to God, when we actually dare。
to have the courage to pray and be honest,。
we don't have the discipline to wait for his response.。
We potentially don't have the discipline to wait。
for his rescue, for his encounter.。
Oftentimes that waiting is a wrestling through the feelings。
or wrestling through the silence。
or wrestling with your doubts。
or a wrestling through the whole night,。
as we see here in Jacob's story,。
to stay and to contend with God.。
Jacob's desperation is what fuels his wrestling.。
My question is, are we desperate enough。
to where if we get in that moment, we will not let him go?。
I think we've got this weird concept as a society,。
as a Christian society, that everything is formulaic.。
And what I mean by that is a lot of times。
we have these specific things that we do.。
You wake up and have a five-minute prayer。
and then you go about your day.。
Or every January, we do a 21-day fast.。
Nothing against fasting for 21 days, that's great.。
I do it too.。
But we have our 21-day fast and then we go on.。
But here's my question.。
What happens if it's not the formula?。
What happens if God is planning on meeting you。
on the 22nd day?。
What happens if God plans on meeting you。
minute six of your devotion?。
Sorry, God, only five minutes today.。
See, we've gotten this whole idea of quick, easy,。
and formula mixed together.。
And that's what's happening is that we put forth the effort,。
but we don't wait.。
We don't slow down enough to wait for him.。
So then we end up missing him.。
And not just missing him,。
we end up going and figuring it out ourselves.。
We end up, okay, well, God hasn't shown up,。
so let me figure out how I can do.。
Jacob does the same thing.。
God hasn't shown up, what can I do?。
I'll send these gifts, I'll send my kids ahead,。
I'll send this, doing all these things.。
We end up filling our hands with what we can grab。
with our strategies, with our own way of doing things,。
and we end up missing what it is that God has for us.。
What if we fasted for 22 days?。
What if, actually, I have time.。
Emma told me this when we were studying this passage.。
The 21-day fast, the Daniel fast,。
is something that we set up looking back on it.。
Daniel didn't set out saying,。
I'm only gonna fast for 21 days.。
Think about that.。
His fast was until something happens.。
So we look back on it, and we're like, all right, 21 days.。
But actually, this is not about the fast,。
this is about us in general.。
It's not the formula.。
You've got to wait.。
We've got to wait.。
We've got to wrestle and wait on the Lord.。
That's where we will renew our strength.。
That's where we will find our hope.。
That's when we'll rise on wings like eagles and soar,。
when we wait on the Lord.。
The temptation of not waiting on the Lord。
means that we enter into this headspace。
that we have to take care of ourselves.。
I was touched on it earlier,。
but it's something we have to remind ourselves.。
It's not just up to you to get you through.。
Hear this, you're not the only one that cares about you.。
It's good to know, right?。
There's someone who cares about you significantly more。
in every possible way, to the fullest extent,。
holistically cares about you.。
Our world and our lives are not solely dependent。
on what we can do and what we make of it.。
The Christian story is this,。
that we have abdicated the rights to be our own gods,。
and we've given that responsibility。
to the only true God in Jesus.。
And hear this, he cares for you.。
So could we live like that?。
Could we wait on him?。
Could we wait on God?。
Could we wait on the Lord through the night,。
through the tension, through the anxiety,。
through the stress?。
Could we wait on the Lord?。
Could we wait for those moments。
where we finally have his attention?。
When we have his attention, could we hold onto him?。
Could we grab him?。
Could we say, I'm not letting you go until you bless me?。
Could we posture ourselves to ask and not reach and grab?。
Could we hold on to him?。
Could we choose to not avoid or hide?。
Could we wrestle for more than just a feeling?。
Could we wrestle for all that he has for us?。
Can we put our future back in his hands。
where everything is possible,。
versus our hands where only so much can be achieved?。
Can we put it in the hands of him who has no limits?。
He operates in the impossible.。
That's the guy I want in the driver's seat of my life.。
So don't take for yourself what you find.。
Leave it to God to give you what he has.。
I grew up hearing this song,。
I think I was around maybe between the ages of seven and 10.。
My mom used to sing in the choir,。
which is where I get my ability to sing from.。
And I remember going to choir practices on Monday,。
and there's this one song they would sing.。
It was, ♪ You're an on-time God, yes he is ♪。
♪ He's an on-time God, yes he is ♪。
And the words are, he may not come when you want him,。
but he'll be there right on time.。
He's an on-time God, yes he is.。
Church, this is my appeal, that we've gotta wait.。
It may feel like, God, you should have come five minutes ago,。
you should have been here three weeks ago,。
you should have been here before this challenge happens,。
but he is an on-time God.。
And he may not come when you think he should be there.。
He may not do it the way that you want him to do it,。
but that's the whole point of these encounters,。
it's unexpected, it happens in unexpected ways,。
but if we will position ourselves,。
if we will posture ourselves to receive it。
through praying and through waiting,。
he does not disappoint.。
He will not leave you alone.。
He will not leave you to only your strength.。
Wait on the Lord, wait through the night,。
wait through the silence, hold on to him.。
[congregation murmuring]。
Waiting is hard.。
Not gonna pretend like it's something you can theorize.。
If it wasn't hard, we'd all do it.。
But I pray that by understanding this encounter,。
that it would produce something in you.。
That your desperation to encounter, to know,。
to experience that same God,。
would fuel your discipline to wait.。
I pray that the Holy Spirit。
will give you the strength you need.。
I pray that he will help and guide you,。
that he will light your path and lead you forward,。
that he will clear your mind,。
that he will remind you of what is in front of you,。
and that is a God who cares, a God who loves,。
a God who desires the absolute best for you,。
a God who loves you more than you can love yourself,。
and a God who's more capable than what we're capable of.。
And so Jesus, we come before you this morning asking,。
asking, not reaching, but asking for your help.。
God, would you teach us how to pray?。
Would you teach us how to be honest in front of you?。
How to bear our souls in front of you?。
Would you give us the confidence and the trust to know。
that you hear us when we pray,。
and that you care about the dialogue,。
about the channel of communication that it opens?。
Would you remind us that by just being in your presence,。
we are changed?。
Would you remind us that by just being around you,。
we are shaped and molded differently?。
That these encounters are not limited to the holy。
and to the saints, but it's also to the sinners like us.。
Would you make us the people who pray?。
And Holy Spirit, would you also be what sustains us?。
Because starting can be easy, but staying can be hard.。
So God, would you, through the power of the Holy Spirit,。
sustain us in waiting for you, waiting on the Lord,。
waiting and renewing our mind,。
and that you would renew our strength,。
that you would be what we need if we wait on you.。
That we will find joy again if we wait on you.。
That surely we will see you and your goodness。
if we were to wait on you.。
So Holy Spirit, sustain us,。
give us the strength that we need to stay,。
give us the discipline, the reminders that we need to stay,。
to rely and to wait,。
knowing that you're not gonna let us down.。
You've never let us down before.。
You've been faithful 100% of the time,。
and so we lean on that faithful God this morning.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
