Obedient to the glory of God that is seen in this moment and the glory of God that that envelops our city。
And the glory of God that is found in this world and we pray this in Jesus name。
everyone says。
Have a seat have a seat。
so so last year。
About probably I would say about halfway through。
The eight hundred and fifty kilometer walk that I was doing through the north of Spain during my sabbatical the Camino de Santiago。
Literally about halfway through that walk。
my phone died。
This actual phone this very very phone died on me and when I say died。
I'm not just saying like the battery ran out and like it lost reception or something。
I mean like total death without resurrection。
My phone went to hell。
It is totally and totally gone. I got the black screen of death never to revive itself。
I mean I tried everything I could to get it to come back to life。
But it was completely and utterly dead now that was an issue for many reasons。
It was an issue because this was how I was connecting with my wife and my daughter every day。
I was gonna be away for about five weeks as I did the Camino and。
This was my ability to stay in touch with my family。
I was off social media at the time, but this was my ability to stay in touch with the world。
So through the news and at night when I would watch YouTube。
Very important。
this was the。
Connection point for my journaling and anytime God spoke to me. I would use my phone and write it down。
It was I was writing a book. I'm still writing a book. I've been writing a book for ten years。
I was still writing my book on this and every night on the Camino。
I would try to write a couple of paragraphs of my book all on my phone。
So when it died, that was a big issue。
But the biggest issue was that I was using this phone every single day and pretty much almost all day。
To navigate the route that I needed to take on the Camino itself。
So every single day I would use this as the map and all of us who are pilgrims on the Camino。
This is what we had. We didn't have a paper map. We had our phones and in these days, you know, there's a。
Specific Google map that you can download that has the Camino trail on it。
It has all the villages you're gonna go through it has all the hostels that you can stay at and there's literally like a blue dot。
Where you are on the Camino every time and so it's impossible to get lost。
You just open up the map on your phone. You follow the blue dot you follow the line that you're on and you're great。
They have occasionally。
Yellow markings yellow arrows painted on the side of buildings and stuff just in case but they are kind of few and far between。
You've got this map on your phone and that's what helps you. So here I am in the middle of this day。
I'm in the middle of nowhere in Spain. I don't speak the language. I'm struggling to understand the culture and。
No one is around me。
But all I have is my trusty phone and the map and I know I'm on the right path and as I'm walking that day。
it dies and。
It goes it like immediately gone。
Now here was the thing. I was kind of freaking out about I was like, oh my goodness。
What am I gonna do because like I can't navigate now, there's no one around me。
I was in the middle of nowhere。
There was no village that I could see sometimes the villages were like our little kind of stop point where you kind of know that。
If you get to that village, you're on the right path. Well, there's no village. There's no map. There's no nothing. There's no pilgrims. I。
Remember thinking okay. Well, I did look ahead a little bit and I know I had to turn right and I know there was a。
Bit around to the left and so I'm like, well, I'll just try to use my memory a little bit。
Maybe things will be okay。
So I start walking and and start trusting in my memory after I've made like two right turns and a left turn and another right。
Turn I realized that my memory has finished I can memorize a sermon word for word, but I cannot memorize a map。
So my memory completely failed and I had I had no memory now of where I needed to go still no one else around me。
And so I began to pray because that's what you're gonna do and I began to say Jesus。
Oh Jesus, if you could just help me here, I'm in the middle of nowhere. I don't know where to go。
I don't know where the next village is. I don't know。
I'm just gonna have to trust you Lord。
And I started to pray and I started to pray and I started to walk and pray walk and pray。
I'm like God if I'm not supposed to go right shut the door。
And I would go right but the door would still be open and I'd keep going right。
After about an hour. I've not come up to any village. I've not seen any other pilgrims。
But I'm trusting in the Jesus and the Holy Spirit。
So I walk another half hour an hour and a half no village。
No pilgrims my trust of Jesus is beginning to waver a little bit at this point。
I'm beginning to wonder whether I am actually on the right path. It feels like I'm。
Horrendously lost and suddenly I have this thought I wonder if anyone else has felt this way。
When you're in a situation where you've been trying on your own and it seems like all the doors are shut。
I had this thought maybe I should go back。
Maybe if I just turn around and go back to where I started。
If I walk a hour and a half back in the other direction and try to retrace my steps as much as possible。
I will be at the place where my phone died because at least then I knew I was on the path。
So I'm literally I have walked for an hour and a half. I'm decided. Yes. I'm gonna turn around。
I turn around and start walking back where I had come as soon as I start walking back from where I'd come。
I noticed on the horizon。
somebody with a backpack。
Another pilgrim two thoughts went straight through my head number one. Maybe their phone has died too。
and。
Maybe they're lost as well。
Or maybe their phones working and they're on the path and I'm not lost after all and so I'm starting to walk really fast。
I'm almost like running towards them there. It was this German lady that hadn't met her before。
She's kind of wondering why this pilgrim is running at her as I get kind of close to her。
She goes, why are you going in the wrong direction?。
And I'm like because my phone's broken and I got my phone out. I'm like look it's dead。
And she then pulls her phone out which is working and she goes. Well, we're actually on the right path。
She's like you're fine. Everything's gonna be fine。
In fact, and she just showed me like up just up over there a little bit left to the right up over that hill over there。
There's the village that you want to come to and when you get to that village。
There'll be some food and some water and I was like, oh, thank you Lord Jesus。
for this German lady and。
For the reality that I know that I'm now on the right path。
Well, I get to the village and I put my backpack down and I have a really nice lunch and I'm feeling a lot more。
Healthy and a lot more kind of sane and I get map from the lady。
She was gonna go off and walk on her own。
but she gave me a。
Written down kind of map of where I needed to go and I had it on a piece of paper and I felt confident again。
And I managed to get to the village。
eventually where I was gonna stay that night and I managed to unpack my my backpack and have a shower at the hostel I was。
Staying in then straight after that. I began to just sit and as soon as I sat, you know。
You know, like sometimes you've got like so much activity going in your life that God can't speak to you。
Anyone else been like is it just me? Maybe it's just me. Sometimes we're like so busy, right?。
We're still doing stuff and it's only when we finally sit down that God's like great now。
I can speak and I kind of sat down and God began to speak。
And God began to speak to me in a very strong way in a very it was a very kind of Holy Spirit。
And I knew kind of like he was beginning to say some pretty serious things and I went to my pocket to get my phone。
Out so I could journal what he was saying and realize of course my phone's dead。
So so I grabbed a piece of paper and I began to write down what he said。
In fact, I grabbed this piece of paper right here。
this is the。
Very piece of paper that I I had and and before I show you what what I wrote you might remember。
During my sabbatical I had gone into my sabbatical asking God to speak to me about。
You know the vine and about us and our future and what God wants to do and what God wants to do me in the future。
And all that and God hadn't spoken to me at all throughout my whole sabbatical. That's all about the vine effect。
He'd spoken to me about all these other things which were for him much more important for me in that moment of my life。
But in this moment as soon as I sat down as he started to speak and the Holy Spirit came on me。
I knew he was speaking to me about us about the vine and。
It's the only time on the whole of my sabbatical where he downloaded something。
Specifically for us and I want to read to you what I wrote down. I wrote this。
He said I'm about to move the vine into uncharted territory. I。
Desire to take you places that you have never been to stretch you beyond what you are currently comfortable with。
These uncharted territories are necessary for your faith and my work. You do not have the strategy。
Resources gifts or wisdom for what is coming, but this is not an issue。
All you need to begin is faith and courage。
This is about complete trust in me what I will give you though is a burden。
I will give you a new heart. I will make you unsatisfied for the here and now。
I will place my hand upon you and stir up the joy of the pursuit of me not beautiful. I。
Want to read that?。
Sorry, um, I want to place my hand upon you and stir up the joy of the pursuit of me。
Hands up if you want the joy of pursuing Jesus。
I。
Am NOT calling you to a vision。
With knowledge of all that is ahead. No, this is uncharted territory。
what I am calling you is to value the value of complete and total surrender a。
Holy dissatisfaction in the way things have been and a passionate longing for the discovery of more。
I I then wrote at the bottom need to preach this sometime。
Ha ha ha that's what I'm gonna do now。
As God was downloading this to me。
It was very emotional at that time and very full and I felt the Spirit of God so strongly。
I I immediately began to see a picture in my mind not a not a vision with my eyes awake。
But just a picture in my mind as I I started to reflect and to soak in this word that got a given and it was。
A picture of one of those ancient kind of boats that were used by the early settlers the early pioneers the ones that were were going。
Out towards the discovery of new lands. I could see in my mind's eye this beautiful ship and。
And this ship was was in harbor in in kind of safe harbor。
But the ship was filled with people who were beginning to get ready for the journey that was ahead and and there were all these sailors。
On the ship and they were all doing their own individual tasks to prepare the boat for it getting ready。
the boat begins to move as the people begin to。
Navigate out of the safe harbor and out into the waters and at the bow of the boat in my mind's eye。
I could see the captain of the boat and he's standing at the front there with like a telescope and he's leaning forward and he's looking。
Out into the waters ahead and the sense was that everybody on this boat was excited and nervous at the same time。
They were excited because they were about to go on this great adventure。
They're about to be launched out and and they were wondering what might be out there and and they had prepared。
themselves for this and they all had their own little part to play and as they did their own little part the boat could move。
Out into what was unknown, but they were nervous because they didn't know what was out there。
They didn't know what was beyond this was uncharted territory. It was uncharted waters。
No one had been there before they didn't have a map。
The map was not。
Existing to enable them to navigate the place where they were going。
So the captain's leaning forward with his telescope and he's thinking to himself。
Well, either there's endless amounts of sea out there or we're gonna come across some land, but we have no idea。
What we do have is an undeniable。
hope。
We have an undeniable。
Burden inside of us that there is something out there to be discovered and not only that but we have this。
unrivaled passion。
Unrivaled passion that although we're afraid and although we don't have the answers and although it's a little。
Uncomfortable and we might go out there and fail we might go out there and discover nothing。
But we're going to go and see what's there because I cannot deny the burden that is inside of me the undeniable。
Hope that is driving me and the unrivaled passion that is moving me。
and。
This picture so resonated with me。
Because I could get a sense that this is what God is calling the vine into in this the season that we're now moving into。
That this is our uncharted territory time。
This is our time where we are going to be in uncharted waters。
We've talked to you on vision Sunday over the last number of years about the river model that we have here at the vine。
The river model being this idea that church is not 90 minutes on a Sunday。
It's not people in a building the church is like a river。
Flowing in its city. We the people of Christ actively engaged in our sphere of influence。
We've been saying at the beginning of this year。
This is a year for action that we are to take our faith and live it more publicly。
So I'm standing here before you today on vision Sunday。
And I'm saying here's the thing that God is really saying in a year of action and wanting us to live our faith more publicly。
It's going to be uncharted。
There's not going to be a map。
We don't have the strategy the resources the wisdom to be able to conquer what is ahead in fact。
God has so designed it that our phone has died。
He doesn't want us to be relying on the old things that we've always relied on。
No, you see when God moves a church or a people into an uncharted time。
It's specifically to get them to focus off of what they were relying on that wasn't him and begin to focus。
directly on him。
Like me and that Camino going Jesus. I need you now because I have nothing else。
We believe that God is moving the vine now into a time where we。
Collectively as God's people are gonna have to say Lord if you don't show up。
We have no idea where to go。
And we're gonna be in a season where God is going to do some things that we have never experienced。
Before I believe we're gonna see this in an outpouring of his spirit here on Sundays。
But I believe we're also gonna see it happening in our cities in the corridors of power。
We're gonna see it in the marketplace. We're gonna see it in the educational institutions around us。
We're gonna see God do some things that we don't have a map currently for。
and。
The temptation for us is to try to go back to what we've done in the past to try to give us some。
Possibility when we're in an uncomfortable uncharted time and instead God is saying remember the captain on the boat。
What I want you to do is be leaning forward in the bow and yes, it can be uncomfortable。
And yes, it's going to be challenging, but I want you to look forward for I have put an undeniable。
Hope in you for the gospel for your city. I。
Love this because when God speaks to us as a church about the season we're in it's not just about us corporately。
It's also about you individually。
And if this is your home church in Hong Kong if you would say I'm a Viner。
I go to the vine every week or every other week or maybe once every ten months。
But if you say this is my church, I'm a Viner。
This is my community。
then this is not just something for us as a total church because you could sit there throughout this whole talk today and go like。
Oh, wow, God's calling the vine to be uncharted. Well, I'll look forward to each Sunday then and。
You'll miss the point。
Actually, what God's saying is I'm calling you to be uncharted。
I'm calling you into a season where you're not gonna have the strategy gifts wisdom and resource to be able to survive。
I'm actually gonna be。
Placing you in a time where you're gonna fill a little bit out of your depth a little bit overwhelmed where the things that you've relied。
On before are no longer gonna be the things that you can rely on now and I'm gonna do some things in your life。
And around your life where you're gonna be like, I can't believe the Holy Spirit is doing that。
You're gonna see fruit and abundance like you have never seen it before but there is no current。
Map, the phone has died and the phone has died because I'm shaking you out of a sense of complacency。
I'm shaking you out of how some of that dust is settled on you and I'm forcing you if you will I'm bringing you I'm。
Inviting you back to trust in me。
This is a。
It's not an easy thing. I think he's calling us to。
But let me give you some ideas of what I think this season's going to be like。
Is he I think like the settlers on the boat who who are both excited and nervous and pushing out from Harbor out to what?。
They don't know this is going to be a season of discovery and adventure focused on the unknown, but anticipated。
Let me unpack that for you for a moment the unknown, but anticipated。
It's unknown because that's the very definition of an uncharted season。
We don't know what's ahead and we know that God is saying that there isn't a current strategy。
We have that's gonna help us in what's ahead。
This was amazing when I was sitting there in。
Spain and God was downloading this to me and I was writing this down on that piece of paper。
I remember thinking to myself. This is awesome because I'm the senior pastor here。
I'm supposed to lead here and one of my responsibilities is always to have strategy for you and。
God was saying I'm taking you to a place where you won't have a strategy and I was like, thank you Lord。
So good because I don't know how many years it's been and my wife would tell you if she was here。
She would tell you that I have spent countless hours。
sleepless nights。
Worrying and processing and praying and discerning and having strategies and look I'm not saying strategies are wrong and bad。
They're not the vine has been blessed over so many years by the faithful。
stewardship of elders and pastors and senior pastors in past seasons and in my season as well。
We've been faithful to discerning a strategy for how to grow this church how to make sure the ministries are going。
Well how to serve our city strategies are great。
But could you imagine the lift from me when the Lord said I'm now moving into a place where you will not have a strategy。
That's uncomfortable Andrew。
But it's also a lifting of a burden from you because in that place all you'll need to do is point people to me。
And that's what I'm basically standing before you today to do is to say。
We don't have a new fresh vision and we don't have a list of things that the vines gonna do in the next 12 months。
All I'm saying to you is we are in uncharted times。
We have been pushed out of the boat。
We are out of our comfort zone and God is saying in that place。
You are gonna see me do more than you have ever seen me do before。
This is a time where it will be unknown for you. But notice what he says but。
Anticipated I love this. In other words just because it's unknown doesn't mean we should be passive towards it。
Follow this church because this is really important。
You know。
You could think that in a season of unchartedness where we don't have a map and we don't have a strategy and we must rely。
On Jesus that's all about Jesus. It's all about him doing it not about us and and so we could adopt a passiveness。
Towards what God is saying. That's not what he's saying. He's saying I want you in the bow of the boat。
I want you with that telescope looking out in hope that undeniable hope for the land that's ahead。
I want you leaning into what I'm doing。
I want you to realize it's unknown, but it doesn't mean you can't anticipate it。
It doesn't mean you can't believe that I'm gonna act。
It doesn't mean that you can't believe and trust that if you push yourself out there, I will be there。
It doesn't mean that you can't begin to believe and pray and hope for revival and refreshment。
And renewal in the city. I it'll be unknown for you, but it is something you can anticipate。
It makes sense to you。
So it's gonna be this kind of season。
Here's secondly what I think it is a little bit like me on the Camino and my my phone died and I I needed to。
to find other ways to navigate。
this is going to be a season a。
Season where well, we're gonna have to have wholehearted trust and reliance in Jesus above above and beyond anything else。
What you got to understand is that an uncharted season to us is not an uncharted season to Jesus。
He knows everything that's ahead. He knows there's no land in this world that he's not explored。
There's no land in this world that he's not king and sovereign over and although it is uncharted for us。
Although we've never been there. He has been there. Not only has he been there. He is there。
Not only is he there he's sovereign over that place。
So our unchartedness is something that he is sovereign over and so what we need to do is shift away from the other。
Things we've been relying on and put our full trust in him。
Let me put it this way。
You have not been saved by Jesus Christ to be a map follower. You've been saved by Jesus to be a Christ follower。
come on church a。
Christ follower and that doesn't mean again that Christ doesn't help us and give us direction and give us guidance and all that sort of。
Thing of course he does but our primary posture has to be to follow him。
Recognizing that sometimes we end up following other things thinking it's him。
We end up following the things that are。
Comfortable for us or the things that we've relied on in the past or the strategies we've had before or the devotion that we did。
Two years ago that was super helpful for us, but we haven't done a devotion for two years。
And we begin to think that that if we just rely on the things that we've had before。
We'll be fine and God is basically saying in a season of unchartedness。
The whole point of it is that I'm bringing you to trust more in me。
That the old things need to be let go of and a fresh dedication to following me。
The phone has died vine。
Come on church。
The phone is dead。
The very thing that we've been relying on he's saying that's not going to happen. There's no strategy. No resources. No gift. No wisdom。
But there is me and as you stay tethered to me。
Sure, then the other things will flow the things you will need for this season。
It will come but your primary posture in this time is me。
Which is the third point of a season like this a little bit like the men and women that you see in the Bible who?。
Have at times have to re-examine themselves and recommit themselves to the ways of God。
This will be a season where God's people will have to have。
intentional readiness。
Intentional readiness through God where we're prepared not with a plan of action, but a posture of heart。
Come on church, not with a plan of action because if God had showed up and said, okay, this is what I'm doing。
I'm taking you here. I'm gonna do all these things。
We should have a plan of action for that。
But when he says you will not know what it is that I'm doing。
I am moving you out of your comfort zone into a place that you cannot predict。
But I am going to do some things our thing is not get a plan of action。
Our thing is let's make sure we're the people of God that we need to be so that when God does something that is uncharted。
We respond。
We react we follow we we begin to do we begin to work out the kingdom when we see the kingdom come。
And so this is a season not not a call to some strategic plan. It's a season of a call to actually。
reevaluating my heart。
reevaluating my life。
reevaluating the values that I hold inside of me。
Reevaluating the brokenness that's sitting within me the recognition that sin so easily tangles。
I want to be someone that when I'm in an uncharted season and God suddenly shows up and does something incredible。
I'm like God use me。
and。
For that to happen. I can prepare myself for that。
I may not know what it's going to be, but I want to say yes when it happens。
And so there's this posture of the heart。
There's a readiness of the values of my life so that when God moves I respond when God acts。
I do when he says who's gonna go I say send me when he says the harvest is plentiful。
But the workers are few I will say I'm one of the few。
And I think this is the culture that he's wanting to now build at the vine in the season that we're now moving into he's。
Intentionally shifted us into a hard。
Uncomfortable not having it all worked out time so that he can rebirth within us a passion。
for him。
Not beautiful that excites Emma。
And it excites me and I know it excites you too。
And these values that that we can have and posture for a season of being uncharted。
Is what we're gonna be talking to you about over the next six weeks starting next week and and the weeks beyond it。
We're gonna actually break down one of the values each week。
We're gonna do it by looking at the book of Acts and the beautiful story in Acts where where the first disciples go to take。
The gospel in the Greek or Roman Empire。
I mean talk about uncharted times and。
The values that the disciples had to enable them to react and respond when God moved。
So we're gonna unpack that in the weeks ahead today, though。
I want I want to land us on a specific value a posture of heart that I think is the critical first step。
I think it's the thing that God is saying in a season of unchartedness。
This is the first thing that I call of you and actually when you look through the Gospels。
This was Jesus's first thing he called for everyone when he said like if you want to follow me。
He says I want you to lay down your cross lay down your life pick up your cross and follow me。
He calls them to what I would describe as。
sacrificial risk。
And I think if we're if we're being serious as a church about a season of being uncharted。
we have to be serious about the reality that it's gonna require a。
tremendous amount of sacrifice and risk for us to let go of the things that we've been。
Depending on and actually begin to look to Jesus again. We're gonna have to be all in。
in a time when we are feeling completely out of control and。
In that Jesus to the crowds to his disciples is constantly teaching them about the ability to move all in for him。
About giving up their lives to follow him. This is the crux of the gospel. It's a death and a resurrection。
It's a it's a giving in order to receiving its pull right into the church and current and saying I'm willing to take the dying。
Side so that the living side is seen in you. This is the beauty of the gospel and Jesus doesn't sugarcoat it。
And he says it's gonna require the giving of yourself the death to yourself the picking up the cross and following me。
Let me read to you just Matthew 13 beautiful chapter 8 parables in that chapter about Jesus。
Speaking about the kingdom and what his reign on earth is gonna look like but he narrows in on this idea of risk and。
The giving of all in these beautiful two parables. I want to read to you from Matthew 13 starting in verse 44。
Is this okay so far? All right, listen to this the kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field。
When a man found it he hid it again and then in his joy went and sold all that he had and bought that field。
Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant looking for fine pearls when he found one of great value。
He went away and sold everything he had and he brought it. I。
Love these two parables Jesus is bringing and he does this often. He's a master storyteller. He brings two different worlds together in two。
Contrasting but similar parables in the first he talks about a day laborer。
These were relatively poor people that kind of rented themselves out to the local farmers for each day of the year to to basically。
Farm their land and and in this particular parable。
He has this poor day laborer who's there with his hoe and he's kind of hoeing the ground if you will of the particular。
Farm that he's farming that day and suddenly he discovers a treasure。
Now when we read the parable and we see this we think well, this is just like a weird story, right?。
This is just a fiction story. But actually this happened all the time in the first century。
The land in that those years was so often。
Attacked by foreign forces and and there were no like HSBC deposit boxes security boxes in those days。
So what people did if they had valuables like jewelry or whatever?。
They would bury it often in one of their fields in the farm and they wouldn't tell anybody where it was buried。
Or maybe they would tell one person but more most likely they would just keep it to themselves。
But they would know exactly where they had buried this treasure. Now. The problem is maybe a year or two later。
They are conscripted into the war. They're killed on the battlefield and they didn't tell anybody where the treasure was。
So suddenly there's this treasure hidden in a field that's going to be hidden in that field for centuries。
Until someone finds it and Jesus is picking up on this exact thing. And here's this day with this day labor。
Randomly stumbles across this incredible treasure in a field and he understands that if he just pulls the treasure out。
He can't claim it for himself。
Jewish law in those days was that anything above a field or below the field was。
Part of the ownership of the one who owned the field, right?。
so the only way he could own that treasure was by buying the field and then he could remove the treasure and take it and。
The parable pitches him doing exactly that but notice what it says. It says that he sells。
Everything in order to buy that field and notice this it says he did it with joy。
Come on church。
Because I know if it had been me and you had asked me to give a little bit I would have been very joyful。
But you asked me to give it all。
Everything and in joy he went sold it all and brought the field。
The second parable is a world completely removed from the first but tells the same story in the second one。
It's a little bit more like Hong Kong. Here's a wealthy businessman. He's good at what he does. He's a pearl merchant。
He travels probably in the Persian Sea the Red Sea the Indian Sea。
He probably works with pearl。
Fishermen in those areas and he's constantly on the lookout a little bit like the captain on the front of the bow。
Looking for that one pearl that is the pearl his holy grail if you will and here on this day。
He's been searching and looking and finally he discovers that one pearl a great price. And what does he do?。
He then sells all of his other stock in order to buy that one pearl。
Now this is incredible risk for both of these individuals and I want you to see something really important here。
Jesus is bringing a day laborer and a pearl a wealthy merchant together and saying this is not about whether you're poor or whether。
You're rich. It doesn't matter about your social economic status。
all people are required when it comes to the kingdom to give it all and。
So both of them give up everything in order to receive the one thing that is of great price and that was a risk。
It was risky for the poor guy to do all that. He didn't have a lot but he gathered it all together。
He sold it to buy the field。
It was risky for the businessman to give away everything or sell everything to buy the one there's this inherent。
Beautiful risk to it and Jesus is saying that's what my kingdom is like。
When you see the value of the kingdom, you're willing to give it all you're willing to risk what you have for what you don't have。
You're willing to risk what you know for what you don't know。
You're willing to risk who you are for who you long to become。
And Jesus is saying this is what my my my kingdom is like. This is what it's like when you are in。
Uncharted territory you're willing to sell it all。
So that the kingdom would be seen。
hmm, I。
Think there's so many things we could learn from these parables。
Let me just very briefly highlight a couple of things that I think are important。
The first is this when you're in a season of uncharted waters。
It's really important in that season you you ground yourself in the reality that you need to both。
Intentionally seek out the kingdom of God, but also be responsive to the unexpected activity of that kingdom。
You see in these two parables you see both at play in the first parable。
The the guy is just going about his normal day his normal business his mundane plowing the field。
He wasn't expecting to discover a treasure in that field that day。
but when he does he immediately is prepared through the posture of his heart to。
Joyfully give it all for that and when we're in a season of unchartedness。
What God is saying is I need you to prepare your heart church because there are gonna be moments。
Ahead this year where I'm gonna randomly show up in your everyday。
Mundane life or your everyday work life or your everyday family life or your everyday。
Whatever and there are gonna be moments ahead where I'm gonna randomly show up。
You're gonna stumble on the kingdom of God in the gym in the boardroom in the classroom。
And the question is will you respond?。
Will you give it all。
Will you go this is a moment of the kingdom of God that I cannot deny and it's worth my everything for this。
That colleague in the workplace who doesn't believe in Jesus and has been a little bit hostile to the faith。
But shares that they're going through a divorce. Will you pray for them?。
That。
Person that you you met in the gym。
Who's who's going through a really hard time in life?。
Will you take them out for a coffee and share Jesus with them if you know that the Holy Spirit is at work?。
See, this is the kind of mentality the values the culture that he's trying to build here in the vine when he's calling us into。
Uncharted times we have to be willing to react to the。
Unexpected activity of the kingdom of God in our lives. What a joy that is。
But then equally we need to make sure we're intentional in searching it out。
We need to be standing at the bow with the telescope saying I'm not just gonna passively wait for Jesus to do it。
Oh, no, I want to be looking as well. I want to make sure that I'm going into my workplace on a Monday morning。
I'm in prayer saying Lord Jesus. Could you show me today who I could be praying for in my workplace Lord Jesus。
Would you give me an opportunity to share the gospel today Lord Jesus my mother who I've been trying to share my faith with。
For so long, but I will not give up we have to be intentional in。
Looking for the activity of the kingdom of God and when we see it。
Remember, we won't know what that specific activity is going to be。
But when we see it whether we stumble over it or we're intentional about it we respond。
We would not be able to stop the people trying to get into this building to worship with us on a Sunday if we were。
Living truly in uncharted times。
Because we would be so responsive to the work of the kingdom around us。
Risk is hard。
It's not a big deal to risk somebody else's life。
It's not a big deal to risk somebody else's resources。
But when you're called to risk your own。
When you're called to give of yourself。
That's when it gets difficult. That's when it's challenging and that's the second point here in the parable。
You see when you're in uncharted waters, you need to understand that you cannot live two lives。
You cannot live two lives. You can't have one foot in one life and one foot in another life。
You can't you can't expect to only give a little bit。
I love it because if Jesus had come up to the day laborer and said hey。
You just need to give a little bit just give a tenth of what you have and then you could have the whole field。
I think the day laborer would totally do that the merchant。
Oh, you just need to sell off a couple of pieces of your stock and then you'll be fine。
If I was to stand before you today and say hey vine。
We're in a season of unchartedness and you just need to give a little bit. I think all of you be like, let's go Andrew。
But if I stand before you and say we're in a season of uncharted and you need to give everything。
And by that I'm not talking finances。
I'm talking about your whole life your values your heart what you're committed to your goals your dedication your time。
And yes your resources giving it all for the kingdom of God. I wonder how many will respond。
But but I I have to present this in the way that Christ is bringing it to us。
You cannot have your current life and a better life at the same time at some point. You're gonna have to make a choice。
At some point we're gonna have to repent of some sin at some point。
We're gonna have to try to to receive the grace of God at some point。
We have to commit ourselves to the therapy at some point。
We're gonna ask some people to pray for us at some point。
We need to make a change because you cannot have your feet in two different camps and expect to be effective。
He's like in a season of unchartedness。
It's a hundred percent trust in me and you have to be fully in or you're fully out. There's no room for lukewarm。
There's no room for it doesn't work in the kingdom of God now that doesn't mean that there isn't a time for us。
It doesn't mean that like I need some time to get my life in order。
I'm I need a process of healing that will go through therapy of repair to time。
I need to take some time to repent of my sin that's gonna happen over time。
Of course time frames fine, but the question is where's the posture of your heart?。
The posture that's what Christ is looking for is all in。
Even though it might take some time for my life to to change and to get to where I want it to be my posture。
From the start is I want to give it all to Christ. I。
Want to serve him with everything. I。
Think he challenges us with this because he recognizes that that that risk is something that that isn't something we naturally do。
You know。
We often think that risk is like, you know。
Just random decision-making or like close my eyes and throwing a dart at a dartboard and hoping something sticks or but that's not biblical risk。
If I was to define biblical risk for you, I would put it this way biblical risk is this risk is intentionally costly decision-making。
driven by intentionally calculated faith。
And it's both of those things together。
Intentionally costly decision-making. This is gonna hurt me. This is not gonna be easy。
I'm being called to do something that is gonna be challenging for me。
I'm out of my comfort zone, but I'm trusting in Jesus and then intentionally calculated faith。
I'm not just giving up everything because the preacher told me to。
But I've actually sat with this I prayed about it. I've asked the Spirit to speak to me. I've looked at the scriptures。
I've had my prayer partners pray with me. I'm in my small group and we're working through this together and we've decided that yes。
The Holy Spirit is asking me to change my job to do this to do that。
And and we've come to a conclusion that this is what God is saying。
so therefore I'm gonna marry the activity of costly decision-making with the。
Calculated faith that I've been intentional about and I'm bringing those two things together。
When you do one of those things without the other if you're just making costly decision-making without faith, you're stupid。
and。
If you are calculating your faith and not doing anything about it, you're a fool。
That's what the Bible says。
But it's when we bring the two of those things together that the kingdom of God does something in the city。
That's the beauty of this. I think he's shaking us up because yeah, there is some stuff that's sitting on us。
Maybe some apathy we need to shake up。
Maybe is there is some reliance on the old and God wants to shake that off so we rely on him again。
Maybe we've been Matt followers and not Christ followers。
There's a whole bunch of things but I think the main reason why Christ is calling us into the uncharted is because of Hong Kong。
It's because of this city. It's because of the people of this city。
It's because we should be the pearl merchants looking for the pearls of great price in the people that are around us all the time。
See every human being made in the image of God has a pearl of great price within them。
But sin covers it up sin tears it away sin blocks people from seeing it。
but when we begin to live and to share and sing the new song of the gospel to people when we begin to stand for。
the faith in。
radical new ways when we begin to love。
People and show people the grace and the kindness and the beauty of the kingdom of God when all of those things take place。
We begin to reveal the pearl that is a great price in every person。
And some come to the kingdom of God。
What a beautiful thing that is。
I can't stand here telling you about risk today。
Without actually then doing something and living that out. It's really interesting as we've been。
Wrestling with this message with you here this morning。
We knew that God was calling us to do something very different on Vision Sunday。
Normally on Vision Sunday what we do is we actually invite you after the message to give to give financially to give。
Officially financially we always say above and beyond your normal ties and offerings and to give your finances。
Towards the vision that God has for us。
But as we were sitting as a church and we were wrestling with this as a leadership。
We're realizing that God was saying that's not what actually I want to ask of the people today。
And so we're actually going to be doing something that is intentionally。
Risky with you here this morning and by not asking you for financial giving today。
That actually puts the church at a bit of financial risk because normally Vision Sunday is a big offering that helps our church throughout the year。
But I cannot stand before you today and talk about taking intentional risk from。
Calculated faith and not be obedient by what God said. God said don't ask for giving on this particular day ask for living。
Ask for people to live the way that I'm calling them to live ask the people to have。
Values that I'm calling them to have values. That's what needs to be done today。
and look the reality is。
down the line in six months nine months ten months when we discover a treasure in the field or。
We see that pearl of great price and we know that the Holy Spirit is doing something amongst us in our ministries。
And we need to respond I will have no shame coming before you on one future Sunday and saying give let's sell everything。
And let's get the treasure in the field. Let's get the pearl of great price。
I will have no problem in the future coming before you and asking for your money。
But today。
That wouldn't be the right thing to do。
Today I want to unpack this and ask you for you。
Ask for your life。
ask for that。
Posture of heart that we've been talking about the preparation for what is ahead. I want you in that boat excited and nervous。
Playing your part ready to discover whatever it is. That's out there. The phone has died。
The way we do this is through consecration。
Consecration is this biblical idea that you can see we don't have time to go into it now。
But on Tuesday night, here's what I want to call you to on Tuesday night。
We're having a prayer night and it's happening here at 730 and the whole night is going to be an act of consecration。
And we're gonna lead you through a place of consecration on Tuesday night。
I want to encourage everyone in this church to come。
Which means that if you all did that's a big problem and it's a good problem to have。
But I want to call you to come because over that night we're going to consecrate ourselves to this new season。
And in order to prepare for that I'm gonna lead us in a moment in this just in a few seconds of。
Consecration here today, which is just a precursor of what we want to do in more detail on。
Tuesday night。
Consecration biblically defined is cleansing plus sacrifice plus devotion cleansing sacrifice。
Devotion and many times God calls his people to a place of consecration. I'm gonna read one scripture and then we're gonna pray。
Let me read this to you from。
from Joshua chapter 3。
Because I want you to hear how God calls his people into this。
Early in the morning Joshua and all the Israelites set out from Shittim and went to the Jordan where they camped before crossing over。
after three days the officers went throughout the camp giving orders to the people when you see the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord your。
God and the priests who are Levites carrying it you are to move out from your positions and follow it。
Then you will know which way to go. It's known as this since you have never been this way before there it is。
You are about to go into uncharted times。
God is telling Joshua and the Israelites you never been in the promised land before this is a land。
You have never set foot in before you have never been this way before。
Then you will know which way to go since you have never been this way before but keep a distance of about a thousand yards。
Between you and the Ark do not go near Joshua told the people here it is。
consecrate yourselves。
For tomorrow the Lord will do amazing things among you. I believe wholeheartedly that tomorrow。
however, that will be defined God is gonna do some amazing things amongst us it begins though in consecration a。
Cleansing Lord, would you forgive me of my sin and wash me afresh with your blood a sacrifice Lord。
I'm willing to posture my heart so that when you act I'm willing to respond with everything a。
devotion a holy pursuit remember I said in that。
Download I wrote down on the piece of paper the joy of the pursuit of God。
the devotion the scripture reading the prayer the quiet times the small group commitment。
whatever it is the devotion the pursuit the positive pursuit of。
The presence of God as we cleanse and sacrifice and devote ourselves. We。
consecrate ourselves to a season of being uncharted and。
That's what I want to call us to now。
So I wonder whether you would do an important thing with me and this is if you feel this。
This is something for you to respond to it may not be possible for everybody because the chairs can be super tightly packed。
But the posture in the scriptures around consecration is a humble one. It's a posture being on the knees。
So I wonder as I pray for us on this vision Sunday as we dedicate ourselves to uncharted times ahead。
You would join me on your knees. Let's pray together。
As you get on your knees。
One of the things that we're going to do and I want you just to be in this posture of prayer。
In a moment, I'm gonna have our hosts pass out。
Communion elements to you and we're gonna take communion as a response today. But before that I want to pray for us。
So, let's just posture our hearts before him。
Father we thank you so much for this moment。
Lord, we don't take this lightly。
Lord your church on your knees before you it's a beautiful thing。
But I really thank you Lord that the phone has died I。
Thank you Lord that you've moved us out of our comfort zone I。
Thank you that you so love this city that you're calling your church to its knees。
To be consecrated before you。
So that like the day labor and the merchants we would joyfully give it all。
On behalf of what you're about to do. We don't know what you're gonna do。
We don't have the strategy the resources the gift of the wisdom, but what we do have is you。
And you believe that the cost of giving your life was enough that we were worth it。
And Lord as we are here on our knees before you it's our way of saying you are worth it。
Father I pray for every person here is going through difficult times。
Lord I want to pray that this year be a year of uncharted fruit and breakthrough。
Lord for those in this room who are struggling。
Lord I want to pray for uncharted peace。
Uncharted peace。
Lord most of all。
For all of us here who call the vine our home church。
Lord we humble ourselves on our knees and we ask for outrageous faith。
We ask for a faith that is way beyond what we currently hold。
We ask for the joy that was in that day laborer。
To give it all。
Lord we cleanse。
ourselves through the washing of your blood。
through the forgiveness of。
Your grace to the forgiveness of our sins。
Lord I want to pray your blood over every person in this room。
Lord there are sins that many of us carry some that deeply entangle. Lord we pray for freedom in the name of Jesus。
Lord we pray for the blood to cleanse your church to purify your bride。
Lord we pray for the sacrifices that are to come. Lord I want to pray that you would put a burden and an。
unreasonable hope in each person in this room that they would give up their time and their energy and their。
Resource and their life and their decisions for your kingdom Lord Jesus. It'll look different for every single one of us。
Lord in our workplaces our education institutions our families our homes Lord would you move?。
Lord would you ask us a high price Lord and would your church be willing to give?。
And father we pray for devotion。
To be stirred. Lord I want to pray for a fire in the name of Jesus over every single person here。
For your word. I want to pray that your Bible would come alive in the hearts of our church like never before。
Lord I want to pray that people would be hungry to read the scriptures。
Those of us myself included at times that fall asleep when we read the scriptures. Would you keep us awake Lord?。
Would you bring your word alive? Would you speak Lord?。
Would we be like the disciples on the road to Damascus who would honor you by saying we're not our hearts burning within us。
When you open the scriptures to us Lord would prayer be released over the divine church in the name of Jesus Lord。
Would we find ourselves on our knees praying for one another praying for our city praying for the loss。
Praying for revival Lord would you break us Lord?。
Lord would devotion be here in the name of Jesus。
Lord we consecrate ourselves。
So in this posture of consecration, I'm gonna invite the host just to come and they're gonna pass out the bread。
They're gonna pass out the cup and they're gonna pass out both of those things at the same time。
I want you to just take in your hand。
And don't don't allow the elements to break。
Where you are in prayer right now, but just receive them keep them in your hand both the cup and the bread。
We're gonna share them all together as one church in a moment。
But the communion is where we are unifying our expression of consecration today。
And I'm gonna invite Carla she's gonna come and just lead us in a time of communion in just a moment。
You。
You。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
