Amen.。
Amen.。
Yeah.。
Thank you, guys.。
I feel like...。
Hi.。
I feel like I've preached enough now to not make the common mistake of saying, "Good morning,"。
when it's 2 PM.。
So good afternoon, everyone.。
How are you guys doing?。
All right.。
I did this at 9.15, but I feel like I'm gonna do it for you guys, too, so you understand。
what it means.。
I'm gonna say, "Good afternoon, fam."。
That's how black people say, "Good afternoon."。
That's our way of doing it.。
So now you know.。
I just taught you something nice and cultural.。
Today we're gonna spend some time, speaking of culture, furthering what Pastor Ellison。
talked about last week, looking at diversity, at ethnic groups, at just what God was doing。
in all of this bringing together concept.。
Today's gonna be meaty.。
It's a massive passage, but I'm gonna break it down and show it's exactly our focus point。
and what it's gonna look like.。
So please do not be overwhelmed when you see 13 verses appear.。
I'm gonna read all of them so we get context and understand what's happening, but we will。
break it down and we'll have bite-sized chunks.。
So let me start by looking here at Ephesians 3, verses 1 through 13.。
I'm gonna read it aloud for us all.。
It says this, "For this reason, I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus, for the sake of。
you Gentiles, surely you have heard about the administration of God's grace that was。
given to me for you, that is, the mystery made known to me by revelation, as I have。
already written briefly.。
In reading this, then, you will be able to understand my insight into the mystery of。
Christ, which was not made known to people in other generations as it has been revealed。
by the Spirit to God's holy apostles and prophets.。
This mystery is that through the gospel, the Gentiles are heirs together with Israel, members。
together of one body, and sharers together of the promise in Christ Jesus.。
And I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God's grace given through the working。
of His power.。
And although I am less than the least of the Lord's people, this grace was given to me。
to preach to the Gentiles the boundless riches of Christ and to make plain to everyone the。
administration of this mystery, which for ages past was kept hidden in God who created。
all things."。
Now, verse 10 is gonna be our anchor verse, our focal point, so definitely dial in for。
this.。
It says this, "His intent was that now through the church, the manifold wisdom of God should。
be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms according to His eternal。
purpose that He accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord.。
And in Him, through faith in Him, we may approach God with freedom and confidence.。
I ask you, therefore, not to be discouraged because of my suffering for you, which are。
your glory."。
So, God, we come before you and we open your word.。
And Holy Spirit, we just ask that they just won't be preaching or reading.。
God, we know that your word is living and active, and we just ask that you would soften。
our hearts to be able to hear what it is that you have to say, what it is that your word。
spells out for us, that it will inspire, that it will give us the courage to be the people。
that you've called us to be.。
So, yeah, we give you this time.。
We ask you to help minimize any distractions in our minds or in our hearts and allow us。
to have a focus.。
So, in the name we pray, amen.。
Now, like I said, these 13 verses, that's a long bit.。
I'm pretty sure you don't remember what the first verse was.。
So, let me summarize what all of this says so we know where we're going.。
All right.。
So, if you were to take this whole concept and boil it down into one phrase or one sentence,。
it'd be this, that the mystery of the reconciliation of all humanity to God and to one another,。
when it's displayed and illuminated through the church, it will powerfully reveal God's。
manifold wisdom to the rulers of the world.。
All right.。
So, last week, if you were here, Pastor Ellison led us through chapter two of Ephesians, which。
has a lot to do with people and with them coming together, ends up being the building。
block to the concept of reconciliation.。
When I say reconciliation, just so we're all on the same page, to reconcile is to take。
two things that were against each other that are broken apart and to bring them together,。
not just at peace, but unified working together for a joint purpose.。
All right.。
So, they are together, not just next to each other.。
And actually, I heard quite a few comments.。
I'm going to disclose some information.。
I'm one of the people who's behind our social media.。
So, I get to see all of your reposts every week and the things that you guys find awesome。
and interesting.。
And a lot of you had a lot to say about what Pastor Ellison shared last week.。
There was a lot of positive comments of how, man, that was a timely message.。
Oh, my goodness.。
That's what I needed to hear.。
And I'm glad that we were able to experience that because to really understand Ephesians。
2 is to challenge the potential prejudices that we might hold in our hearts unseen and。
how Christ has made a way so that there is no outsider.。
And in that reality, we as a church must also commit to welcoming anyone that comes through。
our doors no matter where they come from.。
We as a family of God cannot reserve our hospitality and our acceptance and our kindness just for。
people who are like us or like-minded to us.。
But if the gospel is true, then we have to open up our arms and challenge our prejudices,。
right?。
Really figure out what it means.。
This is Ephesians 2, and I know I'm repeating, but it's what the first 10 verses of Ephesians。
3 actually are talking about as well.。
This concept of God bringing together this new humanity now with the same promises that。
he had for Israel will now be what he's given to the Jews and the Gentiles.。
Paul is both highlighting and clarifying a mystery to the church, showing that this。
is actually the reason he's in prison.。
So he ends up getting in prison.。
You can read this in Acts, but he ends up in trouble because he as a Jewish man is teaching。
the gospel of Christ to non-Jewish people, and it is driving everyone crazy.。
And so he ends up in prison for this.。
So he is saying, "This is the reason I'm here, my mission to evangelize, to share the good。
news of Jesus, not just to the Jews, but also to the Gentiles."。
So all of this will impact the way that Paul expects us as the church to live, how we treat。
one another with dignity and with respect.。
So because of Christ, we now find peace with one another and we find unity with one another.。
And this would have been pretty groundbreaking.。
So the way that the Jews and the Gentiles lived is that they just did not mix.。
They did not go together.。
They were separate people.。
They had different backgrounds, they had different practices, and they did not come together.。
And so when the audience of Ephesians would have been reading or listening to this letter。
read aloud to them, this would have been groundbreaking information.。
This would be, "Whoa, that's not normally how we operate."。
It would have been a shock to them naturally.。
And what Paul is going to do is he's going to take that shock that you see in chapter。
two and the first 10 verses of chapter three, and he's going to expound on it more, explaining。
not just what we ought to do, but he's going to give us some theology around it.。
He's going to trace some things back, and I'm going to hopefully be able to show you。
where these origins of these ideas come from.。
So starting at verse 10 again, we see that Paul properly outlines and brings us this。
description of the church.。
He introduces it to us here.。
He defines the purpose of the church and why it exists.。
Ephesians 3.10, "His intent was that now through the church, a manifold wisdom of God should。
be made known."。
So observe and notice what Paul does here.。
See if you can catch onto the components of what church is based off of what he says.。
Because I think if we are honest with ourselves, potentially we tend to harbor these beliefs。
that actually don't line up cohesive with what Paul is saying.。
When Paul speaks of church here, he doesn't speak of a Sunday.。
He doesn't speak of a temple.。
He doesn't speak of a service.。
There's no preacher mentioned here.。
There's no worship team mentioned here.。
No, when Paul speaks of church, he speaks of people.。
He speaks of a people, a group of people.。
But Paul uses the word ecclesia, which is the Greek word he used to describe a gathering。
or an assembly.。
But more specifically in this case, when it refers to the church, the word has a connotation。
of a called out assembly, assembled for a purpose.。
I was walking here this morning at like seven something.。
I'm like, "It's such a cheesy thing.。
I never want to be a cheesy pastor."。
But I thought of like Avengers assemble, right?。
Like in my mind, like the church is like this gathering assembled, unified for a purpose.。
So stay with me.。
This whole idea of unity and peace gathered together, it all is meant to lead to this。
expression called the church.。
This called out assembly.。
This group of people with diverse backgrounds and cultures together and unified, called。
out under the banner of Jesus.。
See all this time, this is what's tricky to the Jews here, all this time, God's plan was。
bigger than they had realized.。
So we start with Abraham.。
God introduces himself in the Old Testament to Abraham and ultimately introduces himself。
to the world through Abraham.。
And through Abraham, we get the nation of Israel who are now the people of God who are。
living under his covenant and following his rule and his reign.。
And God sets them apart, redeems them, sends Jesus to reconcile them into relationship。
with him again, salvation through grace by faith, all those things that we know.。
But then we realize here that actually God's plan was never just for Israel.。
It was a bit bigger than the people would have understood.。
And that's why it would have been a shock to them.。
It would have been encouraging them into a different way of seeing things.。
If we look back more closely at Abraham's covenant, we would see that God makes these。
bold statements that he would, you know, bless those who blessed Abraham and curse those。
who cursed Abraham, and he would make him fruitful in the land and would multiply this。
and would just bless his whole existence.。
But the last bit of that promise, what he tells to Abraham is this, that through you,。
I will bless all the nations.。
Now not through you, I will bless your lineage only and your people.。
Through you, I will bless the whole nation.。
This is the meta-narrative of Scripture, that God is not just for one people group.。
This has been the plan all along.。
When Paul says it here, he would say it in verse 11, and he would phrase it like this,。
this was all according to the eternal purpose.。
This was something that God had in mind from the beginning, the reconciliation of all people.。
God may have introduced himself through the people of Israel, but he had no intention。
on remaining a mono-ethnic God.。
The most famous Bible verse in all of Scripture, John 3, 16, "For God so loved the world, humanity,。
people, all of us, he so loved all of us that he would send his Son."。
The epistles would have it where Paul or Peter would say that Christ would desire that all。
would be saved, not just some, not just one special group of people, Christ for all people.。
And that ends up being this whole mystery that Paul illuminates in verses 6 through。
10, that before it was hard for people to see, but the whole purpose at the end of the。
day was never just God for the Jewish people.。
It was God for the world.。
That is what he was trying to get them to see, and that's what he was making clear at。
this moment.。
So I feel like for the first century readers, when they were to hear this letter read out。
loud to them, their first questions are like, first of all, they're like, "What?"。
But then secondly, they're like, "How?。
How do you bring together all these people and all together under one rule and all together。
as God's people?。
What does that even look like?。
Do we convert to their practices or do we just convert them to our practices?"。
Ellison said circumcised like 50 times in two minutes last week, the idea of making。
people more like the Jews, but that's actually not what God's heart is, right?。
He says, "No circumcised or circumcised, it doesn't matter."。
He's not about changing Gentiles into Jewish people, nor is he about demonizing the Jewish。
customs and making them Gentile.。
No, he's looking for and creating a new humanity, a new gathered community reconciled together。
that is called the church.。
That is what we are.。
And this speaks to the significance of the church.。
This gives value and tells us that the church matters and that the church is important.。
And if the church is important, we've got to really understand the details of what makes。
the church the church, right?。
We've got to understand exactly what is a church because coming on a Sunday, 9, 15,。
11, or 2 o'clock, and listening to someone preach does not qualify as church.。
Coming and listening to great worship, maybe even raising your hand, you kind of can't。
come to church.。
That's not the vision of what church is in this bit, and we have to understand what church。
means, what God desires a church to be if we're going to be a church of impact.。
It actually makes a difference in our city.。
So let me explain it this way.。
The church initiates or is initiated by God.。
It is His idea.。
I think beautifully phrased, we could say that the church is a community made up of。
different nations and backgrounds and tribes and tongues and different experiences, all。
redeemed by the blood of Jesus and right standing with Him, reconciled to God.。
That sounds good?。
That's okay?。
Everyone okay with that?。
That's nice, but that's incomplete.。
It sounds good, but it's actually more to the picture.。
The life, death, and resurrection of Jesus was not only to provide us reconciliation。
to God.。
Do we know that?。
Like it's not just about making sure that us and God are in right standing relationship.。
If we trace the biblical narrative further back to Genesis 3, we would see that before。
the fall and after the fall, a couple of things change.。
There's a couple of broken fractures that are introduced by sin.。
The first one is pretty obvious, right?。
When Adam and Eve sin, God shows up to, "Oh, hey buddy.。
Guys, this is my son.。
Isn't he the best?"。
It's never happened before.。
Okay.。
Back to my question.。
It's never happened before.。
Okay.。
Back to what I'm saying.。
In Genesis 3, when Adam sins, the first thing that changes about his relationship with God。
is this.。
God comes looking for Adam.。
And rather than walking in the cool of the evening like Adam used to do with God, what。
happens?。
Adam is hiding from God.。
Adam doesn't want to be seen.。
There is a distance.。
There is a disconnect.。
There is a gap.。
There is a fragmented relationship, right?。
So that's the obvious one.。
And so Jesus comes and dies, redeems us back to right standing with God.。
But there's something else that happens in that Genesis story that we have to think about.。
When God approaches them about their sin, Adam responds in a very rude way.。
He says, "The woman that you gave me, the woman that you..."。
Him and Eve would have been one beforehand, right?。
We get the whole biblical picture of marriage from pre-fall.。
They were unified together, one flesh, one body.。
And after sin, he distances himself.。
Humanity ends up in this broken relationship at enmity with one another.。
We can go really, really, really deep on this, but I'm going to move forward.。
Sin did leave humanity at war with one another, right?。
It left us looking for peace and longing for reconciliation and not finding it.。
I mean, the next generation of Adam's family, what happens to the two brothers?。
One murders the other.。
Is there any more clear picture of a broken humanity in the relationship with one another?。
The mystery, however, of the gospel is that, yes, Jesus came and he died and he was risen。
again to life so that we could be redeemed with him, but he also was risen back to life。
so that humanity could be redeemed again with humanity.。
God doesn't just care about our vertical reconciliation and righteousness with him.。
It matters that we are reconciled to each other.。
And humanity reconciled to God and to one another is primarily meant to be expressed。
through the church.。
That's why we exist.。
The church is meant to be evidence to the world of that reconciliation, both of us to。
God and to us and each other.。
It's meant to be seen.。
The church exists to be this living example in all of its flaws and struggles and imperfections,。
yet filled with hope and grace of the reconciliation that's happened for humanity with God and。
with itself.。
This is who Christ's church is.。
This is his bride, this counter-cultural wild picture that ends up being a spark of life。
but speaks a meaningful purpose to who we are.。
And it's for that reason that we can't just come to church.。
It doesn't really work.。
You can't just check it off a list of something you did this week and feel good about your。
spirituality.。
Church is not a place or a location or a building.。
Church is a people.。
It's the unified people, God bringing together people of these different backgrounds under。
the banner of who Jesus Christ is, reconciled with God, living out that reconciliation with。
one another.。
This is the reason that we have the river model at the Vine.。
We say that church is not a building, therefore we're not going to put all of our efforts。
into making a really cool and awesome building.。
Instead, the church is wherever the people go out into the city, carrying the presence。
of God, carrying his goodness, and filling a dry and thirsty land with the water of life.。
What you do as the church brings life to where you go.。
That's why you'll hear it said by almost every service leader, by almost every pastor, especially。
Pastor Andrew, that church is more than a 90 minutes on a Sunday.。
Because we exist for such a more grand purpose.。
It's people living under this lordship of Jesus, bringing evidence to the world of the。
new humanity that God has created.。
Now look, in order to do this, what it means is we have to live in community.。
It means that we have to be doing something together outside of Sunday, specifically your。
Monday to Saturday.。
Because we can all gather once a week, that's not that challenging to do.。
But man, to live this out means that Monday through Saturday, the church has to be made。
manifest in showing God outside of here.。
Because we have to do the things that community does, that a new reconciled community does.。
Things like praying for one another, things like supporting one another, hearing what's。
going on, sitting and bearing one another's burdens, forgiving each other, walking out。
all these fruits of what the church is meant to be.。
And the reality is that you kind of can't do that on a Sunday just in an auditorium。
listening to me speak.。
You kind of can't bear Taz's burden while I'm talking to you, could you?。
That's a bit challenging.。
But outside of a Sunday, you could.。
So I think this calls us and encourages us to live as a church, yes, gathered on a Sunday,。
but also in community and out in our city throughout the rest of the week.。
This is how God designed the church to be.。
Not a service, not a place that you come to, but a people being evidence to the world,。
a living example just by the mere fact that we can be so different and not let that tear。
us apart.。
Just by the fact that we can come from different cultures, have different value systems, have。
different hierarchy of what we consider the most valuable thing, maybe even have different。
political ideologies and not let that splinter us.。
Right?。
Have you ever stopped and think about how crazy it is that God would do this, that he。
would want to bring these people together?。
That's not natural.。
That doesn't happen, especially in today's society where culture gives us this hyper。
focus on, you know, separating people, perpetuating and creating separate and unique, distinct。
identities that separates me from you.。
Where I'm different than you because I'm not like you, so I'm this.。
Where it creates more barriers and it does solutions.。
It creates more individual groups of people than a unified groups of people together.。
It ends up being not united or unifying, but rather ends up being society siloed.。
When our reactive ideologies, the only way they unify us is when we unify against someone。
else, right?。
We draw our line in the stand, I'm on this side of the camp, I believe this, so I'm against。
that.。
That's the narrative of society.。
I think if you're a little older, for all of our older generations here, I think you'd。
have heard the phrase, "Birds of a feather flock together," right?。
It's all about finding the people that are like you and having your own special thing。
that's not like them because you think this way and you believe this way.。
That's not...that's natural.。
That's how our society functions and operates.。
There's no middle ground.。
It splinters humanity and it divides humanity.。
The world and all of its wisdom doesn't actually pull you together.。
It gives you more reasons to be apart.。
And I feel like this experiment that God has can't work.。
It's not supposed to work.。
You know, it's the me first mentality of me and my clan, me and my people.。
How do you do that and be reconciled and unified with other people and care about their needs。
equally?。
It feels impossible, so impossible that it feels like some weird hippie euphoria dream.。
But the reality is that that's precisely what Christ is looking for.。
So we have pushed it because it seems so unachievable because our culture is so loud and it's splintering。
that unity and being unified is something that's unachievable.。
But Christ is setting up his church as designed it to be that, what we would call an alternative。
society, a new humanity.。
A people where there is no special privilege because of your education or because of your。
employment status or because of the amount of zeros in your bank account, where there's。
no disadvantage because of where you came from or how you got to Hong Kong.。
A group of people where there's this general sense of equality and equity amongst us.。
And I think when the church lives out this way of seeing everyone in that imago dei lens,。
the image of God in every single person, it ends up becoming the birthplace, the breeding。
place for fairness, for liberty, for justice, where the poor are treated with the same respect。
that the rich are treated with, where there's shared fellowship and where we care for our。
neighbors, where the alien is not taken advantage of but there's a voice for them, where the。
widows and the orphans are protected, where the vulnerable are spoken up for.。
See, when the church lives this way, it displays the wisdom of God.。
It displays the way of God.。
It shows something on full display.。
It shows his kingdom, which we would pray in Matthew, "Your kingdom come, your will。
be done."。
When the church lives as this reconciled humanity, you don't have to pray it, we live it.。
We get to be his kingdom come here.。
Pastor Ellison said something last week that has been sitting in my head, living rent-free.。
He made the comment that the church is not meant to reflect culture.。
I feel like I 100% agree.。
I think we can all agree with that.。
But I think when I thought about it a bit, I felt like so often the church kind of looks。
just like the world.。
It doesn't look that different.。
Well, because we sing?。
That's not...。
You can go to a concert and sing.。
Listen to someone talk?。
There's TED Talks all around the city.。
It doesn't look that different from what we see on the world.。
The church is not meant to reflect the culture and the present day values, but so often and。
so easily it does.。
No, the church actually has a more grand and intentional purpose.。
The church is this, it's God's wisdom on display.。
We exist to display something, and that thing specifically is the wisdom of God.。
This idea of us being displayed and being visible is not introduced in Ephesians 3.。
It's something that if you paid attention to the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5 through。
7, Jesus talks about.。
He would say when speaking of his people that they...。
He goes, "You are a light on a hill to be seen."。
He would say that you don't light a lamp to hide it.。
So I grew up Baptist, kind of Baptist, first Pentecostal, then Baptist, very confusing.。
But in my latter times of being Baptist, we used to sing this song at Sunday school.。
This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it...。
Someone knows it.。
This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine.。
This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine.。
Let it shine, let it shine.。
Did I just sing that?。
I always told myself I would not be that pastor.。
Wow.。
I'm glad this is not the live stream.。
My dad would judge me.。
My dad's a pastor as well.。
Anyways, but you don't light a lamp and hide it.。
That's the whole point.。
You're supposed to be so different, so countercultural, this alternative society that you have to。
be seen because you look so different.。
You are light to the world.。
You are salt to the world.。
You are yeast and dough to be seen, to make a difference.。
When the church does this, it is seen and it's displayed.。
Here's a nice little plus.。
You don't have to be super evangelistic when the church does this because rather than going。
out and handing out a thousand tracts or trying to awkwardly say, "Do you know Jesus?"。
and make someone feel uncomfortable, actually, the church by doing this is attractive.。
Who does not want to be a part of a community where everyone is loved and taken care of,。
where everyone is valued, where because you have the image of God in you, I love and respect。
you fully.。
Nothing about your social status changes who you are because you are made in God's image.。
A community that is for one another, meeting needs, praying together, the Acts community。
of the church, we're sharing all things in common.。
This is so different than what we see, but this by nature, by being such a contrast,。
it attracts people.。
It's like a moth to a flame, which is good for the whole light analogy.。
I just came to me.。
Cool.。
I'm going to skip that next slide.。
I don't think we need to talk about it.。
The whole point of this is that we end up being a church where our vertical relationship。
and reconciliation with God extends into our horizontal reconciliation with one another.。
That is what we're saying.。
When we do that, when the church lives that way, it is God's wisdom on display.。
One of my favorite examples of this is found, again, this one is in Luke.。
Jesus is getting ready to teach and people are like, "Hey, some of the wisest people。
around, the teachers of the law, they come up to Jesus and they say, 'Yo, we have a question。
for you.'"。
They're doing this.。
It says in the scripture that they're doing this to try and trap him.。
They say, "Jesus, of all the 300 and however many commandments that there are, which one。
is the most important?"。
I love this.。
They ask Jesus a question where the answer should be singular, it should be one answer.。
Jesus in all of his awesomeness says, "I'm going to give you two answers."。
He goes, "Love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength."。
Now this is something that every good Jewish person would have known, memorized, grown。
up, kind of living up.。
He says that and then he says, "And," which I'm sure their ears perked up, "And love your。
neighbor as yourself."。
And then he goes on to give this story of a Samaritan who were people that were different,。
slightly ethically different, mixed group of people.。
The Samaritans were different than the Jews.。
The Samaritans and the Jews hated one another.。
This example of loving God and loving others is an example of a Samaritan.。
This thing has just been sprinkled throughout, God reconciling all people together.。
See the church when it does this is on display.。
It's visible to the world.。
And I love that we as a church don't have to...we don't have to worry about being cool.。
We don't have to worry about, you know, having the latest this or the latest that or having,。
you know, cutting edge sermons or, I don't know, making a stand about this thing or just。
speaking because speaking is a thing.。
To be seen doesn't mean we have to put ourselves out there.。
I love this because Jesus would say in John 13, "For the world to know that you belong。
to me."。
What do you have to do?。
Do you have to make a lot of statements?。
Do you have to bash people in the head of the Bible?。
Do you have to be super religious?。
Do you have to pray nonstop?。
No, it's gonna love one another.。
By your love for one another, they will know that you belong to me.。
How easy yet profound just loving your neighbor is.。
That is the call.。
That is reconciliation of humanity.。
That's what God desires his church to be, a place where those who are reconciled with。
God now are reconciling with each other, coming together and being whole and being unified.。
This is what the church is meant to show.。
However, Paul, like I love that I just spent like 20 minutes on that.。
Paul's actual point in here is not for the world to see us.。
Did anybody notice that?。
That kind of led us astray for a little bit.。
He's not just talking about obviously, yes, when we do this, the world does see us, right?。
But his point is not so that the world can see us.。
It's actually a bit different.。
He in verse 10, I'm gonna read it one more time, see if you catch on to it.。
His intent, meaning Jesus, was that now through the church, the manifold wisdom of God will。
be made known to the rulers and the authorities in the heavenly realms.。
We're gonna talk about spiritual things, the things unseen, the spiritual realm.。
And isn't that a wild concept that God's way of speaking to the spiritual world is through。
his physical people being reconciled together.。
So it's not just...。
And let me put this in context because Paul is also gonna talk about, you know, wearing。
the armor of God and all these things that we ought to do.。
And before he says it in Ephesians 6, he would lay it up using similar language about how。
real the spiritual world is.。
And I'm just saying this because I think it's easy for us to live just based off of what。
we see, right?。
Like I see you, you see me, that's easy, cool.。
But angels and demons and other creations, and as Ellison would talk about Nephilim and。
this and that, like, what even is that?。
Is that even there?。
So Paul would, before he even gets into the armor of God, he would say this in chapter。
6, verse 12, "For our struggle, for the battle that we wage, is not against flesh and blood."。
It's not just a bit about what you see.。
It's not against people, but against rulers, similar word, rulers, against authorities,。
similar word, authorities, against the powers of this dark world, against the spiritual。
forces of evil in the heavenly realm.。
There is a spiritual world, there is a spiritual battle.。
It's not just what we see.。
And I think what's remarkable about this is that God is saying the church is important.。
It matters, but not just for the physical.。
The church matters because it displays God's wisdom to the spiritual world.。
It's not just about us being reconciled to each other so we can be kumbaya.。
We're making a statement to the spiritual world as well as the physical world.。
Satan and his demons are pushed back by the church living in reconciliation.。
Think about this.。
This just hit me now.。
Satan's whole plan to get back at God because he knew he could never defeat God was to go。
after his kids, was to go after his creation.。
And so he ruptures relationship between man and man and between man and God.。
And now God is taking the very thing that Satan thought he ruined and using it as a。
statement to say that God is victorious.。
To say that the cross was not a joke.。
The cross was not empty promises, but Jesus raised from the dead says something because。
look at the people that you brought sin into.。
Look at how they've been made alive.。
They were once enemies.。
They were once hostile to one another, but look at them now.。
Through Jesus in them, through a reconciled relationship with Jesus, they can now live。
reconciled to one another.。
Does that say that the church matters or what?。
It screams that we have something to do and we can't just have services once a week and。
think that is the church.。
We actually, oh, we lose the meaning of church if we think it's a place that we come to once。
a week, right?。
We lose the meaning of church if we think church is over once we exit the door during。
the response song.。
No, to be God's church is to live a certain way, to be an example outside of this building。
and inside of this building of yes, reconciliation between us and God, but also reconciliation。
between us and our neighbor.。
God created the church this way on purpose.。
This was his scheme for a reconciled universe, delivering a defeating blow to the enemy,。
displaying God as wise and as right, and his ways not only as higher than ours, but better.。
So we, his church, are a physical statement to the spiritual realm that God is good and。
that he has redeemed man in his redeeming creation.。
So let me summarize all of that because I know 13 verses, a lot of mystery, a lot of。
spiritual world, a lot of reconciliation, Jews, Gentiles, not as many circumcisions,。
but it's a lot of things to kind of put in together.。
The reconciliation of humanity to God and to each other displayed and illuminated through。
the church, it reveals that God is wise, that the cross was victorious, not just to those。
outside of the church, but to the spiritual realm as well.。
That gives us the significance of what the church is.。
When we see that, we recognize that the church is not just a nice thing to have, it's deeply。
necessary.。
It exists to serve a significant physical and spiritual purpose.。
So us as a divine community, if we're to be this kind of people, it looks like loving。
each other on Mondays through Saturdays, not just coming on Sundays, right?。
If we're going to be that kind of community, it means getting involved in the justice work。
in our city because every single person is created in God's image, therefore they have。
inherent value, right?。
If we're going to be this kind of space, it means meeting together throughout the week。
in small groups, right?。
I've dedicated a small group and all of their kids this morning.。
They all live in the Typo area and they get together every other week.。
It could be as simple as that.。
It could be, you know, maybe you're a busy businessman or woman and you have very little。
time in your day and you're at work all the time.。
I'm pretty sure they give you a lunch break.。
So maybe during your lunch break, once a week, you can gather with some people in that space。
and just create a space for maybe prayer, for encouragement.。
What would it look like to, I don't know, not see everybody at your work as someone。
to defeat?。
What would it look like to live and to practice out biblical values within the way you run。
your business?。
To not put profit as number one or me and my gains as number one, but the way that I。
do my things, the way that I live my life, the way that I engage in business to be displaying。
God's wisdom by me being reconciled with those around me.。
Could it be that that's where God has called you in your sphere of influence?。
Could it just be that you get together and pray with people and pray for their needs?。
If all that's displayed is a good sermon or a really good worship team and nothing else。
happens throughout the week, we missed the point.。
That's what I'm going to hark on.。
If we listen to this and we're like, "Oh, that was a very moving sermon," and the next。
time we decide to be engaging in something spiritual is next Sunday, we've missed the。
point.。
We cannot allow church, we cannot boil down the meaning of church to just attending a。
gathering once a week.。
No, you were made for much more.。
The church exists for much more.。
God is wanting to utilize us and work with us in redeeming all of creation.。
How vast of a purpose is that?。
It matters that you go out into your spheres of influence and you do the things you do.。
It matters that you go and you be the church wherever that might be.。
Don't just come to church.。
Dare yourself to be the church wherever you are.。
So let me wrap up by boiling it down to maybe two ways that we can practically think about。
this and questions we can ask ourselves as we consider what it looks like to take this。
reconciliation between me and God and the reconciliation between me and my neighbor。
and display God's wisdom through that because that's a big, big task.。
Chapter two of Ephesians, chapter three of Ephesians, very similar.。
Unity or peace in chapter two and unity in chapter three.。
But all that requires us to ask ourselves this question, have we allowed the gospel。
to change us so fully that we can love whoever walks through these doors and into our community?。
Have we?。
Can we see those around us through the lens of Christ?。
This will impact how we talk to our domestic helpers.。
This will impact how we treat the angry old lady who hits us with a cane on the train.。
This will impact everything, every relationship we come in contact with.。
If you see people as the image of God, as they are, this isn't like some fairy tale,。
God's image is in every single person.。
Could we see them that way?。
And if we did, would we then allow them to have the same value that we have, precious,。
deeply valuable to God?。
Have you allowed the gospel to so fully change you that you would allow anybody into this。
community?。
That's the first question.。
I think when you wrestle with that, like the tips that Pastor Allison gave us last week,。
ask yourself what are the barriers?。
What are the things that are stopping me from seeing people the way Christ sees them?。
Is it race?。
Is it age?。
Is it culture?。
Is it political ideology?。
Maybe the easiest one, right?。
Do they have a different view about politics?。
I don't know.。
All right.。
Ask yourself what those things are.。
Ask God to show you what those things are.。
And ask him to give you the strength to acknowledge them and to submit them to his will.。
And place those things so far second behind how primary you hold the unity that we have。
in Christ Jesus.。
Ask his spirit to do that.。
And what I think when you do, I think as he does that work and you're deepening that reconciliation。
in you and him, it will impact the way that you engage with your neighbor.。
And the second thing is this.。
You've heard me say the word river, river model, one of the things that we focus here。
at the Vine.。
My question is how can we be a river?。
The church as a living example throughout the city.。
Again, the church is not a building.。
It's not a place you come to.。
So if that's the case, do we dare to allow the unifying power of Christ to give us the。
courage to speak to those around us?。
Does the reconciliation of all humanity impact how generous we are?。
If we see a need, if we see them as valuable, would we do something?。
Would it impact our willingness to engage in different justice efforts around the city。
to bring dignity to those who are vulnerable?。
A really fun and simple way, we have these things called neighborhood conversations where。
all you do is walk around and get to know our neighborhood.。
Could the reconciliation of you and God leading to the reconciliation of you and your neighbor。
encourage you to maybe join a space where you just get to know the people in your neighborhood?。
Because I mean, if you're going to love them, you might as well maybe get to know them first,。
right?。
Can you really love what you don't know?。
God would say this in 1 John that how is it that you don't love your brother who you can。
see, but you claim to love me who you can't see?。
All right?。
So could we take steps like that?。
Could we make a conscious effort?。
I know that we're busy.。
I understand that Hong Kong's busy.。
I have worked for a church, but I'm busy too.。
I get it.。
But I think we remember that this is an eternal purpose from the beginning.。
This was God's plan to bring people together to yes, reconcile us with him.。
But man, the statement, the display that we are when we have different values and approaches。
and preferences and some people support like, is it Liverpool or what team do you like?。
Manchester United?。
Yeah, right?。
Like when Hudson can like Manchester United and I can still like Hudson, that says a lot。
about the reconciliation of God in this family.。
I know it's a silly example, guys, but the cuts that do run in our society run quite。
deep.。
All right?。
If we could allow what God has done for us and what he wants to take place in humanity。
to drive us into reconciliation with one another, we do become a light.。
We do become salt to the earth.。
Not salty.。
We become salt to the earth.。
And we display a wise, powerful, intentional God.。
It invites people into our community.。
It gives people value and inerrant worth.。
And this is the mystery of the gospel.。
This is what Paul is saying.。
And this is my heart for our community.。
This is Pastor Andrew and our elders.。
This is what they want this church to be.。
Not just a group of people gathered, but people with differences, putting those things aside,。
counting it as lost because of the surpassing knowledge of Jesus Christ and the unifying。
work that he's doing in our reconciliation.。
So would you stand with me and we'll pray together?。
Yeah, I recognize that this is a dense passage.。
It's a lot of words.。
But maybe for you it's just honing in on two or three things.。
Or one or two things.。
What it means to love our neighbor.。
That's what God is calling us to do.。
To be reconciled with him and to be right standing with those around us.。
If we boil it down to that, then what we're asking God for is a deepening of our reconciliation。
with him.。
And the strength and the vision and the fortitude to be able to live that reconciliation with。
humanity intentionally displaying into the world.。
That we would be a church that's not known for anything other than displaying the wisdom。
of God.。
And it's his heart for us.。
So maybe you have to ask yourself one of those two questions.。
What does it look like to be so convinced by the gospel that I'd let anybody in?。
That I would love anyone around me?。
And God, I think for those of us who are asking ourselves that question, would you continue。
to flood us again anew with the meaning of your reconciliation with us?。
Would you remind us of the power of the blood and the power of your broken body and what。
that meant, what you endured, and just exactly what you did so that we could know you more.。
So that there'd be no barriers between you and us.。
That the veil is torn and we have access to a God.。
You've made a way for us to know you, to walk with you, and for you to be present with us。
always.。
God, I pray that you would just remind us of the joys of our salvation.。
And that that would be the bedrock, that would be the foundation upon where we muster up。
the strength, knowing that we can only love because you first loved us.。
God, may your example lead us bravely and boldly into acts of reconciliation with those。
around us.。
Give us the strength to forgive if that's what we need to do.。
Give us the ability to listen.。
God, give us the ability to assume the best about our neighbor, maybe not the worst.。
Yeah, God, you know what it looks like for all of our spaces.。
Would you speak into that?。
And Holy Spirit, for those of us who are pondering the question of what it looks like to go and。
be you displayed out into our society, to be a river that brings you to the world, I。
pray that you would give us the comfort of knowing that we don't go alone.。
And actually what makes, what value we bring is the fact that you go with us.。
And so would you comfort us?。
Would you give us ideas and suggestions?。
Would you illuminate what it looks like to live in a reconciled relationship with our。
coworkers, with our bosses, with those in our offices, with our families, with our communities,。
with those in Hong Kong?。
Could you show us what it looks like to truly bring the water of life to a dry and weary。
land?。
Could you let us see that the church is made for so much more?。
May we not just be a church that gathers and does church, but may we be a church that goes。
and carries the church outside of this building.。
And may your wisdom, your manifold wisdom be on full display for the world and for the。
spiritual powers through this community of believers gathered in the name of Jesus.。
Amen.。
[music]。
