Well, thank you very much.。
Well, what a joy and honor to share with the congregation。
here in Yuen Long.。
Well, you may wonder why at this time of the year。
we talk about closures and new beginnings.。
Of course, we know that closures and new beginnings。
does not always follow through the calendar year.。
So say, for instance, in the medical line,。
all the medical students here in Hong Kong would graduate in June,。
and they would start in July.。
And that was what happened for me 38 years ago.。
But the most important and the significance。
of the new beginnings is, as I started to work,。
I got to meet my wife.。
Yeah, so-- and of course, she decides。
what I get dressed for today.。
Well, so a few years down the road,。
as I worked in the medical line, I。
got a chance to go overseas in St. Louis, Midwest of US,。
to do my overseas training.。
So at the time, I was following a mentor who really ventures。
into the advance of new technologies。
in the medical line.。
So he actually designed a lot of new surgical procedures.。
Of course, as all attempts-- and there were, in fact,。
a lot of attempts that failed.。
And he actually faces a lot of hurdles and radicals。
along the way.。
There was one day, his bigger boss。
came into the operating room and changed the clock on the wall。
to a calendar, just to signify that, well,。
the operation, which was supposed to take a few hours,。
now take more than a few days.。
So it was really bad that you received such a reminder。
by your big boss.。
But against all these hurdles, he actually。
made it through and introduced what。
we now call minimally invasive surgery, or keyhole surgery,。
in short.。
So I remember his very famous quote.。
Well, he said, "Not all new things are good,。
but all good things must be new at some time."。
So very true.。
So as he journeyed through uncharted water in his times,。
he championed a new cause, which really。
changed the surgical practice throughout the world.。
I'm very glad to be involved in this new beginning。
and be part of it.。
So new beginning carries significant impact,。
even as I ponder on this very work.。
Now, new beginning, or beginning in New Testament,。
carries very significant and rich meanings.。
It can mean that there are things that we start--。
it can talk about the origin, the beginning of events,。
or early days.。
So I would actually expand on some of the New Testament。
references to beginnings as today's sharing.。
Closure and new beginnings.。
We'll look at this through the Gospel of Mark,。
as well as the Gospel of John.。
So we remember John 1.1.。
"In the beginning was the Word.。
The Word was with God, and the Word was God.。
And he was with God in the beginning."。
So it's actually a very powerful new understanding。
of the whole idea of beginning and Word.。
So we know Word actually comes from the original Greek logos.。
So it was a very new and groundbreaking new。
interpretation, because logos was understood。
by Greek as just knowledge.。
But John was able to integrate that knowledge。
with the divine wisdom of God, which was referred。
to in the Old Testament.。
And then he also connected this very Word。
as Jesus Christ, the Word of God.。
So it was groundbreaking.。
Now, it's also important that this very reference。
of "in the beginning" was a resonance of the very first。
verse in the whole Bible.。
Genesis 1.1.。
Verse 1.。
"In the beginning God created heavens and earth."。
So we have to understand the whole perspective。
of new beginnings in the whole Bible。
was that God saw that it was good.。
And in fact, when he created the human beings,。
he said it was very good.。
So to anchor our understanding on beginnings,。
all beginnings, as blessed by God, are good in his eyes.。
So as we expand on beginning and end,。
I just want to highlight two things。
about our understanding of beginning。
that I will elaborate along the way.。
Number one, every beginning is the end of a prior beginning.。
Well, a little bit complicated.。
Every new beginning means the closure of a prior beginning.。
And number two, every beginning should。
be aiming towards a predetermined end.。
Well, you can actually draw from Hebrews。
that talk about Jesus being the pioneer。
and the perfecter of our faith.。
So here it reads from Hebrews, "Let us throw off。
everything that hinders and the sin that so easily entangles,。
and let us run with perseverance the race marked out for us,。
fixing our eyes on Jesus, the pioneer。
and the perfecter of faith."。
Beginning and end.。
Jesus indeed sees us through from the very beginning。
to the very end.。
Now paradoxically, sometimes new beginnings。
start with closure of the past.。
Let's look at the Gospel of Mark to look。
at this interesting interaction between endings and beginning.。
So Mark chapter 1, the beginning of the good news。
about Jesus the Messiah, the Son of God,。
as Jesus walked alongside the Lake of Galilee,。
he saw Simon and his brother Andrew。
casting a net into the lake, for they were fishermen.。
And Jesus said, "Come, follow me,。
and I will send you out to fish for people."。
And at once they left their nest and followed him.。
So this is a call for a new beginning for Peter.。
And actually, begins with the closure of a prior chapter。
for Peter and the first disciples.。
Now this call, this first act of Jesus' ministry,。
is not obviously, is not a spectacular miracle。
or great sermon.。
It's a simple call for a few ordinary people to follow him.。
A call to follow him.。
Now the Sea of Galilee is actually。
a very beautiful lake.。
In the first century, we have to understand。
that actually the staple of food for most of the people。
is actually fish rather than meat.。
And the fishing industry in the Sea of Galilee。
is actually, was actually very prosperous to the extent。
that the catch was not only consumed by the local market,。
but it was exported as far as Alexandria in Egypt,。
or even Antioch in Syria.。
So it's an international marketplace.。
The fishermen of Galilee, they would。
compete in the large Mediterranean market,。
demonstrating the skill and probably。
the mastery of the Greek, an international language。
of commerce at the time.。
So the fishermen Jesus called are not necessarily。
just daytime disposable or dispensable day laborers.。
And to survive in this market, they。
need to be savvy and are probably。
successful small business people.。
Are these backgrounds of the first generation disciples。
somewhat like many of us here in this congregation?。
We work hard in the community, in the society,。
with our skills in respective professions.。
Others are working in a booming or challenging business.。
Some of us are bilingual, and many of us。
are engaged in international trade.。
Is Jesus also calling some of us or most of us。
who happen to be in this city, in Yunnan,。
by his divine purpose?。
But to start with, there needs to be some closure。
to prior chapters.。
Bonhoeffer talked about this calling of disciples.。
So he talks about, well, when Christ calls a man,。
he bids him come and die.。
Wow, what a serious matter.。
Following Jesus is indeed costly and a serious matter.。
A beginning of following Jesus, start。
with letting go of the past, is a type of death。
and then picking up of the cross.。
Well, actually, myself, I had a very similar challenge。
some almost 40 years ago, which I。
refer to, with a very similar choice。
from that of the disciples.。
So at that time, I was about to enter into medical school.。
And that particular summer, somehow, the theme of the church。
was surrendering ourselves to serve.。
So I hesitated to embrace the call.。
I would not like to end my chapter too early.。
Well, in fact, I haven't even started my career.。
So I wrestled, but I made a very subtle decision.。
Well, maybe this call to surrender is not for me.。
If anything, that should be responded。
to some years down the road.。
Well, very sadly, that deferral to some years down the road。
turned out to become decades.。
I wondered what my path could be if I。
had made a very different response at that time.。
Well, one never really knows.。
But as I've just shared, a chapter closed。
is a chapter closed, be it a bad or a good choice.。
Well, fast forward, I've been attending this Vine Church。
for the past 16 years.。
And I've been serving as an elder in the Vine Church。
for the past nine years.。
I still remember on the hot summer day--。
I guess it's also like June, July--。
without air conditioning, that's how。
we attended the very first worship service in Wan Chai。
as we were completing the renovation at the time.。
Well, the auditorium was like a hot furnace.。
But then the enthusiasm drove us to complete the renovation.。
I still remember the days when we were really, really。
short of funds.。
Well, you want to take a picture?。
OK, sure.。
So at the time, we were really short of funds.。
And we didn't even have enough cash。
to pay our employees monthly salaries.。
So what did we do?。
We knelt down, we confessed our sins,。
and we prayed for the Lord's favor.。
It was through the faithfulness of the congregation。
that some time down the road, we were。
able to pay off all the debts and remained financially stable。
ever since.。
Then we all went through the challenge。
of the social movements and the COVID restrictions.。
After COVID, the attendance in Wan Chai。
averages around 1,005 compared with the original 2,004.。
So we were slowly coming back to pace.。
But then yet, it was in that kind of difficulty。
that our very, very first church plant is here,。
birthed in Yuen Long.。
Praise God.。
[APPLAUSE]。
But on a personal level, serving as an elder and chairman。
through this season has been a life-changing experience。
for me.。
And I want to say on behalf of the past eldership,。
including those who have stepped down, including myself,。
after years of service, and those who are still。
serving in the current board, and then, of course,。
there are others in our midst who continue to serve。
this very congregation.。
I want to thank you, because you're also。
part of the community that gives faithfully.。
And we have that opportunity and privilege。
to serve you in areas of spiritual directions,。
organizational governance, financial prudence,。
and corporate leadership.。
I want to thank you because many of you。
have toughed it out in difficult seasons.。
So I'm not sure whether many of you。
have attended the EIS earlier days.。
And well, Ivan and Ta and Tim will。
recall that one odd day, the air conditioning broke down。
altogether.。
And then you have to open up the tents.。
And then you just continue to meet。
in the tented as a congregation.。
But I think that is where we were refined.。
And we continue to be refined as a congregation.。
So well done.。
And keep it up with the air conditioning well functioning.。
Well, I'm so glad that every time I come,。
well, this becomes more and more packed.。
And I'm looking forward to your opening up。
your third or fourth service, whatever that means.。
But I understand that you have already started the youth。
service.。
Yes, wonderful.。
You are reaching out to a generation,。
to the next generation, to bring hope for the youth。
and for the community as a whole.。
As for myself, on a personal note,。
having to step down after nine years of service。
is actually a blessing in disguise.。
Well, for anything new to happen,。
there has to be an end to the prior chapter.。
How I may serve in the next season。
is something God will continue to reveal.。
I do eagerly expect that there will be greater things coming.。
And I'm hopeful that I shall share our next move with you。
very soon.。
Now, God willing, I do hope that I。
may be invited once in a long while。
to share a word with all of you.。
Well, beyond personal level in corporate church life,。
there are also occasions that we need。
to bring closure, even to certain ministries,。
so that new fruits can be birthed.。
Our father, the gardener, is in the business of pruning us。
so that we may bear even more fruits.。
However, sometimes we just don't wrap up our past properly.。
How do we know that we are not doing very well?。
Well, when we cannot stop of thinking the past,。
but keep on chewing the hurtful past,。
we feel angry and frustrated because of the sadness。
and pain in our life.。
We struggle to encounter God in those difficult moments.。
And we decline to enter into new commitments in life,。
in relationship, or in ministries.。
Somewhere last year, when I no longer。
received the honorary academic title that。
was conferred to me by the university over the years,。
I was really upset.。
I thought, well, I made very significant contributions。
to the university.。
I thought I had mentored many and inspired others.。
But then I come to my sense.。
I have left the academic field for a good number of years.。
A closure is a closure.。
I can choose to embrace my new role as peers。
to my fellow colleagues, including。
those who are younger than myself,。
but who may be brighter and even more skillful.。
I can choose to fully commit myself to patient care。
on personal levels.。
And I can also explore new ventures in life.。
So how should I embrace closures graciously?。
Well, I learned this spiritual practice。
of writing down my regrets.。
Well, you can actually do it in a beach。
and let the tide wash it away.。
But that is what I wrote on one of the retreats.。
And that exercise of recognizing the pain, grieving my loss,。
was really helpful.。
So I was in agony that I really felt that I didn't love enough。
and I really didn't do enough.。
But the tide washes everything away.。
And the next day is a new beginning.。
So it may be helpful for us to consider。
the features of emotionally healthy endings。
and new beginnings.。
When we have a healthy ending and new beginnings,。
we know we would be able to wait patiently。
for the ending and the confusion in between before the start.。
We are fully aware that the transition could take much。
longer than we could imagine.。
And we realize that the ending and the waiting。
are closely tied to our personal maturity in Jesus Christ.。
And yet we firmly believe that endings and waiting。
are the gateway to new beginnings.。
If we accept these losses, whether it's。
work, a relationship that comes to an end,。
or even a failed ministry, we are。
ready to enter into a new season.。
Very truly, I tell you, unless a canal of wheat。
falls to the ground and dies, it remains only a single seed.。
But if it dies, it produces many seeds.。
Anyone who loves their life will lose it,。
while anyone who hates their life in this world。
will keep it for eternal life.。
I wonder whether some of us understand what's。
the essence of cancer progression.。
Well, in short, cancer cells do not。
complete their original life cycle at the appropriate time.。
The original normal life design is such。
that cells would just die at a certain time.。
But instead, these cancer cells become vicious cells。
that drag on, and the culprit that endangers life.。
When I was diagnosed with leukemia some years ago,。
the idea of the target therapy that I received。
was to let the medicine to create an environment whereby。
all these cancer cells would die,。
so that healthy cells would reappear in the future.。
I remember the very first day that I received the very first。
dose of the target treatment.。
I literally thought I was going to die,。
because I was so sick.。
But here I am, reasonably strong and healthy.。
Maybe we should all ask ourselves,。
if we accept this ending of my current life situation,。
what new things might be standing in the background,。
waiting to come into my personal life?。
When we embrace the end of a chapter in our lives,。
God's will is not just to change our external circumstances.。
He wants to do a deeper, greater transformation within us。
that goes far beyond our imaginations.。
So this is what Parker Palmer, a famous author, educator, wrote.。
"On the spiritual journey, each time a door closes,。
the rest of the world actually opens up.。
All we need to do is to stop pounding on the door that。
is just closed.。
But instead, we turn around, which。
would put the door behind us, and welcome。
the largeness of life that now lies open to our souls."。
Don't pound on a closed door.。
Embrace the new.。
So let's not pound on a closed door and embrace the new.。
How, then, are we able to embark on a new journey?。
Stephen Covey teaches in his best-selling book。
"The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People."。
And one of the habits is, paradoxically,。
begin with the end in mind.。
Well, maybe Stephen has Paul's encouragement in mind。
when he writes his book, because Paul says,。
"I do not consider myself yet to have taken hold of it.。
But one thing I do, forgetting what is behind。
and straining towards what is ahead, I press on to go."。
So what does it mean to have the end in mind?。
So while we actually just returned。
from a Camino walk in Spain a few weeks ago--。
well, this is the hat that bears the symbol.。
Yes, well, some of you are aware this is exactly the same,。
the Camino walk that Pastor Andrew took.。
Of course, ours is the easier version of five to six days,。
covering around 120 kilometers in total.。
His was 30 days, which covers maybe 20,000.。
I don't know.。
Well, still, it is uncharted water.。
It's uncharted territory for us, myself and my wife.。
And there was some anticipation regarding。
our own physical strength.。
Somehow, due to the flight itinerary,。
we actually flew in to San Diego,。
which is the end point of the supposed Camino journey.。
So we have actually one spare day to tour around San Diego.。
So we tour around.。
We were able to enjoy the very rich history surrounding。
this whole idea of Camino, the story,。
and the glorious ending at the church in San Diego,。
before we actually moved on to our starting point, Sarria,。
to start our journey.。
So it was interesting.。
But in that sense, we actually began our Camino walk fully。
aware of our glorious ending.。
What remains would be just a full enjoyment of the journey,。
being confident that we shall arrive somehow.。
In his book, Stephen also challenges。
us to imagine that we are attending our own funeral.。
And we shall hear from our family, our friends,。
our colleagues, and our fellow congregants。
how they remember us.。
Well, this is indeed a challenge.。
More often, we would rather ask, well,。
what would be accomplished at the end of this year?。
Or maybe, how would I like my family。
to be in three years' time?。
Where do I expect the ministry to be like in five years?。
Or maybe slightly longer down the road, when I retire,。
what kind of legacy will I leave behind?。
Well, we can and we should set short-term goals on the way。
to long-term life goals.。
But the author reminds us to focus on the very ultimate。
goals that really matter, lest we lean。
the ladder on the wrong wall.。
While I try to practice this principle in my own life,。
we will organize a family gathering with friends。
as well, co-workers, and church members every few years,。
so as to celebrate either our birthdays or our wedding。
anniversary.。
And some of you in this congregation。
did come around to celebrate with us through these events.。
So eight years ago, we celebrated our 21st wedding。
anniversary.。
But we also took a very bold step。
to break the news to our guests that I。
was suffering from leukemia.。
And at that time, I was about to start my treatment.。
So I was charting into unknown waters.。
So I kind of took it as a farewell,。
in case the treatment didn't go very well.。
Well, fast forward on our recent 60th birthday party.。
And that was two years ago, so you can calculate.。
Well, we asked our guests to share something。
they would like to say to us, both as an encouragement。
and as a measure of whether we had。
passed on something really significant for them。
to remember.。
If we think deeply about it, how do I。
want these relatives and friends to evaluate my life?。
What kind of husband, wife, father, or mother。
do we want them to remember?。
What kind of friends, what kind of work partner。
are we for them?。
And what qualities do I want them to see in me?。
Or maybe the ultimate question should。
be, will I be called the good and faithful servant。
that I may be invited to Jesus' banquet to celebrate together?。
If I look closely at the people around me,。
then I should ask, what change do I really。
want to make in their lives?。
And if my ultimate goal is to see life transformed,。
then I should start with my own personal choices,。
my priorities, and my life as a believer.。
So that was when Jesus first called Peter.。
Jesus had already in mind an end for Peter.。
The call to ministry to Peter is such that, well, Jesus said,。
follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.。
The original Greek had that sense of making changes。
so that one becomes.。
So it's a continuous process.。
It's a dual process for over three years.。
A call can indeed completely change our destiny.。
About 20 years ago, when I was still working in Singapore,。
I received a phone call from Hong Kong.。
And that was the invitation for me。
to join one of the local universities.。
And we decided to take up the challenge for me。
professionally and for the family to start a new life。
again after a 10-year departure from Hong Kong。
to stay in Singapore.。
And that call changed the path of my life.。
God had a wonderful plan when we returned to Hong Kong.。
And when we were looking for a church,。
we stumbled into Divine Church, which was still。
meeting in Central at the time.。
Vivian and I had the wonderful privilege。
to serve in this church, especially。
in the Chinese ministry where we met Ivan.。
Well, this should be considered a surprising and almost。
unexpected call, right?。
How about Peter?。
What happened to him upon his saying yes to the very first。
call by Jesus?。
Did he continue to keep his end in mind。
while riding many ups and downs together with Jesus。
through those three years?。
After three years of walking alongside and with Jesus,。
Jesus was to depart.。
And Jesus allowed that in his absence, Peter and his disciples。
start a new ministry.。
So this is what Jesus encouraged them.。
John 15, "When the advocate comes,。
whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth,。
who goes out from the Father, he will testify about me.。
And you also must testify, bear witness,。
for you have been with me from the beginning."。
Well, long circle, and we are back to the beginning.。
Peter and the first disciples had the privilege。
of being in fellowship with Jesus from the beginning,。
and they had their own unique anointing.。
Vine Church, Yunlong, has been birthed for three years.。
And I understand that Tim is going。
to take his much-needed sabbatical in two months.。
Of course, be assured, he will come back.。
Well, you may have been with this community。
for the past three years from the very beginning,。
or you may have been with us for three months or just three。
weeks.。
Regardless, we are blessed to be part。
of a new season for this church.。
We are moving forward together.。
God values each and every one of us.。
May we spread the good news and keep。
in mind how the end would look like,。
which is a citywide transformation,。
starting from Yunlong but going well beyond.。
Jesus' final instructions to his disciples。
are the same instructions to all of us。
here, brothers and sisters.。
You, too, must bear witness because you have been。
with Jesus from the beginning.。
While our context may differ, but we。
are in a new beginning that God has ordained.。
The New Testament ends beautifully.。
In Revelation, he says, "I am the Alpha and Omega,。
the first and the last, the beginning and the end."。
I hope that as we celebrate a new season of the venture。
of this church and congregation into the uncharted,。
each and every one of us would also。
move towards your life goal.。
My life goal is to give the best of myself。
to serve him in years to come.。
So can I invite you, all of us, to stand together.。
I will also invite the worship team to come.。
Now, while we are preparing for a response in singing,。
I actually want to invite many of you in this congregation。
to do a prophetic act.。
OK, so it's not a magic.。
Not that you do this, then this will happen.。
OK, it's just a declaration.。
Early on, we share, well, we should leave。
the closed door behind us.。
We should turn around.。
And there, we'll see a new beginning.。
So as you ponder on a closure of past chapters,。
we want to turn around and see a new beginning.。
You may want to join me in a moment's time.。
So let's decide how to turn.。
OK, so we'll turn this way.。
OK, so that you don't bump into others.。
OK, so turn this way.。
OK, well, but ponder in your hearts and commit to Jesus.。
Well, I want to put a chapter and its closure behind me.。
I want to turn around.。
I want to see a new beginning.。
