Well, good morning, everyone.。
Thank you so much for joining us here today.。
2020 is coming to an end.。
Can I hear an amen?。
And some of you are saying, finally.。
It was about time.。
Hey, to start things off in a bit of a lighter way,。
I want to do a review that I call Remember When.。
Now, remember when the pandemic first hit。
and we became experts on sourcing masks?。
Now, I want to share with you about my moment of glory.。
I feel really good about this.。
I was at a friend's New Year's party,。
and word came out that HKTV Mall was。
going to be selling some masks.。
And so we all got online on our phones,。
and we got ready to the strike.。
And when those masks became available,。
I managed to secure 90.。
And I was so excited.。
I felt like I finally arrived in Hong Kong.。
I know how to take care of stuff here.。
You know, that's not that easy.。
But then I also realized that I actually。
had an oven sitting in my HKTV Mall cart。
that I not only bought masks, but I also bought an oven.。
So I got masks and an oven.。
But hey, you know, in the pandemic,。
that wasn't that bad of a thing.。
But I just was not as cool as I thought I was.。
Now, we managed to source masks from all over the world.。
You know, some of us on our own.。
Hong Kong people are really resourceful.。
They know how to get stuff.。
Some of us collaborated with friends, family, co-workers,。
and they sent us masks here, only for us。
to send them back to them as the pandemic spread。
and when they needed masks and didn't have them.。
Remember when we could go on vacations。
and didn't have to quarantine?。
Yeah, me neither.。
Man, I miss traveling.。
You know, that's one of the things I was really excited。
about coming back to Asia was the travel.。
Remember when we became Zoom experts?。
We're like, hey, virus, we're going to bypass you.。
You have nothing on us.。
We're going to go digital online.。
And so we learned about things like a virtual background,。
which works for some of us.。
We have good enough computers and chips。
in our computer.。
For others, not so much.。
We learned about Zoom fatigue.。
Anyone experience Zoom fatigue?。
Hey, you can put a comment in the feed。
if you know what Zoom fatigue's like.。
I certainly have experienced that.。
But we also learned about Zoom etiquette.。
Well, that's at least some of us.。
There's always that one person on the call。
who does not mute themselves.。
Hit the mute button.。
Come on, you can do it.。
Hey, remember when-- and by the way,。
this is the height of my review right here.。
This is the zenith, the pinnacle.。
You know what I want to share with you?。
Remember when we were scared of running--。
you guessed it-- out of toilet paper,。
and we got in touch with our inner hoarder,。
that little man, that little woman living inside of us?。
And we went into the stores and into drugstores,。
and we grabbed as much toilet paper and tissue。
as we could to make sure that we're secure.。
Now, a neighbor from me, him and I,。
we can look into each other's windows.。
You know, we pretend like we don't see each other, but we do.。
And so during that time, he had like stashes and stashes。
of like toilet paper and tissue there.。
And I started feeling insecure about what I had.。
But he was like, that's not cool, man.。
Why you got to take all the toilet paper?。
But remember also when we actually slowed down,。
and we took time with God, reading his word,。
spending time in prayer, experiencing him speaking to us.。
Remember when we got to spend a lot of time at home,。
work from home, and even though there's challenges in that,。
but nonetheless, we got to experience these precious moments。
with people that we love, with our parents,。
with our children, with our spouses, with our friends.。
Remember when we called each other,。
and we actually checked in to make sure the other person was okay.。
And we went out on the streets, and we handed out hand sanitizer.。
We handed out masks for those who couldn't afford them。
or wasn't able to source them for themselves.。
Hey, what's your highlight of 2020?。
Let us know about it.。
Put it in the comment.。
We would love to hear your highlight.。
Love to celebrate with you the good things that God has done this year.。
But even though a lot of good things happened,。
and they certainly have, and praise God for them,。
2020 has brought so many of us to our breaking points.。
And to one degree or another, we've experienced loss,。
we've experienced pain, exhaustion.。
Traveling has been difficult.。
Some of us have missed funerals, weddings of loved ones.。
I got married this year to my lovely wife, Chris.。
Woo-hoo!。
And we started with a civil union,。
which happened during the peak of the second wave.。
So we had to uninvite 30 people, which is awkward。
if you ever have to uninvite people to something.。
Not fun.。
Then we had our church wedding during the peak of the third wave,。
so we had to shift everyone from actually being here in person。
to now joining us online, and we had to delay our banquet.。
But by God's grace, we were able to have our banquet。
between the third and the fourth wave, and I'm really grateful for that.。
But this year has been tough.。
So many difficult things have happened.。
Some of us have lost loved ones.。
And if that's you, I just right now just want to send you the love。
from myself but also from the whole Vine family.。
We love you and we care deeply about what has been happening in your life,。
and we just want to send you our love and hugs to you and to your family.。
Many other things have happened.。
You know, we've been scared of the virus.。
We've been living in fear.。
We've lost jobs.。
We had to postpone our college plans.。
Graduations were online instead of in person.。
Church everywhere online.。
Hey, thanks so much, you know, for joining us in this space,。
but we sure miss you here in person.。
But we're still glad we get to spend this time with you in this way.。
Parents became teachers at home, having to figure out how to navigate。
this whole working with their kids and collaborating with the class teachers。
and getting all the lessons done so that the kids don't fall behind.。
Friends have lost friends who've moved.。
So there's grieving people who have moved.。
And then there's a lot of uncertainty about the future.。
What's going to happen in 2021?。
Is there going to be a recession?。
Am I going to have my job or is the vaccine going to address all the issues?。
So I don't know what your 2020 has been like,。
but to one degree or another, we've all experienced pain and loss,。
and there's been challenges this year.。
And so as I was thinking about what do I want to share with you today,。
you know, what is God putting on my heart,。
this passage came to mind that has been with me throughout the whole year,。
that has come up multiple times.。
And that's a passage from the Gospel of Matthew,。
chapter 9, verse 35 through chapter 10, verse 5.。
And the reason why I want to choose this passage to share with you right now。
is because I believe that it's important for us to hear today,。
you know, that Jesus cares deeply about us,。
and he's aware of our circumstances.。
He's aware of what's going on in your life.。
But some of us were struggling to see that。
because this year has just blindsided us.。
It's been so difficult.。
And we don't feel like that Jesus is with us.。
We don't feel like that Jesus cares, but he does.。
And so in this message, I'm going to speak into the challenges of 2020,。
but I'm also going to be looking ahead。
and how Jesus invites us into very important work in 2021,。
the River Model Vision,。
you know, something that Pastor Andrew introduced two years ago in a Vision Sunday.。
And so we're going to see how Jesus wants to speak to us now here in our challenges,。
but we're also going to be looking ahead.。
So that's the plan for our time together.。
So let me start by reading this passage in Matthew, chapter 9, verse 35.。
And it says, "Jesus went through all the towns and villages,。
teaching in their synagogues,。
proclaiming the good news of the kingdom,。
and healing every disease and illness.。
When he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them,。
because they were harassed and helpless,。
like sheep without a shepherd."。
So first, we hear a summary of Jesus's ministry up until this point.。
He's been going from town to town.。
He's proclaiming the good news of the kingdom,。
but he's also demonstrating the kingdom by bringing healing。
and bringing wholeness to people.。
But then Matthew, he mentions a metaphor of sheep and shepherd。
in order to help us to understand how Jesus sees the crowd.。
That's actually a metaphor that Jesus himself uses elsewhere。
about himself, himself being the shepherd,。
but also Israel being the sheep.。
So for example, right after the passage that we're going to be looking at today,。
Jesus sends the disciples out to the lost sheep of Israel.。
So Israel are the lost sheep.。
And then in the Gospel of John, he calls himself,。
he says about himself, "I am the good shepherd."。
So not only did Jesus talk about this,。
but this was something that Jesus's contemporaries,。
they were familiar with.。
It was a metaphor they knew,。
because throughout the Bible,。
there's this metaphor of sheep and shepherd.。
Most of the time, it refers to sheep being Israel。
and shepherd actually being the leaders of Israel.。
And a lot of times, it's a critique of their lack of leading Israel.。
So Matthew, in our passage, he's using this metaphor。
to help us understand how Jesus sees the crowds。
and what's going on with them.。
And so as he's been walking around,。
he's been making these observations,。
and he sees that the people, they're without protection.。
They're vulnerable. They're harassed.。
They're helpless.。
They find themselves in a place of destitute.。
So during that time, there was Roman occupation.。
There was an oppressor that really turned up the screws。
or turned down the screws tight,。
you know, taking money.。
So a lot of people were struggling economically.。
But then also just not having the freedoms。
that the people desired to have.。
But then there was also things like spiritual oppression.。
And then just normal life, economic concerns, heartbreaks.。
And so what Jesus sees when he looks at the crowd of people。
is he sees people that are barely making it.。
That's what Jesus sees.。
And he sees their struggle, and he sees their pain.。
And he sees their lack of resources。
and their place of destitute。
and their need for somebody to come and lead them。
out of that place, to guide them.。
But it does not just stop there.。
Jesus not only sees and observes the struggles。
and the pain of the people.。
You know, that'd be like, just imagine that.。
Like he's like, "Oh, there's a lot of pain.。
Oh, well, that sucks."。
You know, and then he just moves on.。
But that's not what he does.。
We're told in verse 36 that Jesus had compassion on them.。
He allows himself to be deeply moved and touched。
by what's happening in people's lives.。
He cares deeply about every single person。
and what's going on in their lives.。
Every single person.。
Tim Keller, a well-known pastor from New York City,。
he says this, "Compassion means to get yourself involved。
and make yourself vulnerable."。
So it's two things.。
Get yourself involved, make yourself vulnerable.。
Well, Jesus, he made himself vulnerable.。
We just celebrated Christmas.。
It's all about Jesus making himself vulnerable。
and coming to us, coming into our lives to rescue us,。
but also to see and identify with our pain.。
And so he makes himself vulnerable.。
He allows himself to be impacted by that,。
but it does not stop there.。
He also gets involved.。
He gets involved in people's physical pain,。
and he heals them.。
He gets involved in people's emotional pain。
by taking away shame, restoring people's dignity,。
and comforting them,。
and telling them about their true identity.。
And he gets involved in people's spiritual pain,。
whether that's spiritual oppression or sinfulness。
that is just working havoc in our lives.。
And so he lays down his life。
and all those who place their trust in him。
can experience his deliverance。
and this newness of life that he gives.。
So Jesus is not a passive bystander.。
He gets involved, and this love and compassion。
that a lot of us and a lot of you。
that are watching here today have experienced,。
you know, it flows through Jesus。
because he deeply cares about every one of us.。
And Jesus, he sees your 2020,。
and he cares deeply about what you are going through.。
He's deeply touched and moved。
by what is going on in your life,。
and he wants you to know that today。
because we need to hear that.。
Because just like those people back there,。
there's a lot of us barely hanging on.。
You know, we're barely making it.。
And we need to hear this word today。
that Jesus, he knows, he sees, and he is involved.。
But there's a problem.。
When things don't turn out the way we hope for,。
or when we walk through a lot of painful experiences,。
we tend to withdraw from Jesus。
and we withhold our struggles from him.。
Now, in our Bible passage today,。
we see that even when we are in that place of withdrawal。
or pain or hurt, Jesus draws near to us.。
He has compassion for us.。
He cares about our struggles, your worry, your fear,。
your grief, your pain, your anger,。
your sadness, your frustration, your helplessness.。
He cares about you and he wants you to know that,。
and he wants you to know that right now.。
Jesus says about himself, "I am the good shepherd."。
And the good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.。
Jesus doesn't withhold anything from us, nothing.。
He has given everything for you, everything for me.。
He's not a bad shepherd.。
He's the good shepherd.。
Bad shepherds abandon their sheep.。
They leave them vulnerable and exposed,。
but that's not Jesus.。
Jesus doesn't leave you vulnerable and exposed.。
He's with you every step of the way.。
And he's also the one and the only one who is powerful。
and able to lead us to our destination.。
And so right now, I want to invite you to pour out your heart。
in prayer to him and to experience his comfort,。
his care, his healing presence as he meets you right now.。
So I want to encourage you at home.。
You know, it doesn't matter who's around you,。
even if you're on the go and watching this.。
I want to encourage you right now just to do some real talk。
with Jesus.。
Just tell him what you're feeling and what's going on.。
You know, even if you're barely struggling to do that,。
you know, that's actually a step of faith.。
And even if it's so hard, and when we do that,。
Jesus, you know, he reveals himself to us。
and we get to experience him working.。
So right now we're going to take like 20 seconds or so,。
and I just want to invite you to pray.。
So if you close your eyes with me right now,。
wherever you are, and just pour out your heart to Jesus.。
Jesus wants to meet you right now.。
He wants you to know that he is with you.。
He has not abandoned you.。
And he wants you to know his love,。
and he wants you to have hope.。
I'm with you.。
You're going to make it.。
I'm going to carry you through.。
So pour out your heart to him right now.。
(soft music)。
Jesus, you've heard right now all the prayers.。
Even if it was just like some stuttering or some,。
I'm in pain, some very simple words.。
And Jesus, I pray right now that your presence,。
wherever we are, that you would just fill that space。
with your presence, that you would make yourself known,。
that you would start the healing process,。
that you lift burdens off people,。
that we could feel that release that you can only bring.。
So Holy Spirit, I just pray that you would move。
powerfully right now.。
Lord, we desire that we pray for that,。
and we know you're able,。
and we know you are the good shepherd。
who doesn't abandon us, who is still with us,。
and who will see us through.。
So I pray that you would release faith, hope, and courage。
right now, in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
(soft music)。
Now, besides Jesus meeting us in this difficult space。
that a lot of us are finding ourselves in,。
and by the way, I do wanna encourage you。
to keep just pouring out your heart to Jesus。
and experiencing him meeting you.。
Even if you don't know him, you can talk to him,。
and he'll meet you, he'll make himself known to you.。
But besides Jesus showing us his compassion,。
I want us to think about what does Jesus see。
when he looks at Hong Kong in 2020?。
What does he see?。
What does Jesus want his church to see and do?。
And I believe that the river model vision。
that we as a church have been called to。
is about seeing our neighbors' circumstances。
and allowing ourselves to be filled with compassion。
for our neighbors, and to get involved in people's lives.。
Jesus wants his compassion in 2021 to flow through us。
to our neighbors, to the people here in the city。
that need his love, his compassion,。
that need to be touched,。
that need to know that there is a good shepherd.。
So as we step into 2021,。
we need to see our neighbors struggle.。
So as you have been looking around your neighborhood,。
what are you seeing?。
What is the spiritual, emotional, and physical condition。
of the people around you?。
Who is Jesus highlighting to you?。
Actually, I want to ask you to comment right now。
on the feed below.。
Let us know what has been Jesus highlighting to you.。
What are you seeing?。
What are you observing?。
Now, I believe that Jesus, he highlights specific people。
to us, that we are uniquely positioned。
to love, to serve, and to impact.。
So what are you seeing?。
What are you noticing?。
Do you see the elderly neighbor that's barely making it,。
who needs some help?。
Do you see asylum seekers,。
our brothers and sisters who are struggling,。
especially now even more so than before during COVID?。
Do you see people's spiritual condition?。
Maybe they have the financial resources。
and they're doing it from that perspective, fine,。
but they're just lacking that joy。
or that purpose in their lives.。
And you see that and it pains you.。
What is Jesus highlighting to you?。
Do you see the single parent。
that needs others to come around him or her。
and just walk with that parent?。
And with the child?。
You know, what do you see?。
Whom is Jesus highlighting to you?。
Where do you find yourself filled with compassion,。
deeply moved and stirred?。
Pay attention to that.。
Could it be that Jesus wants to work uniquely in that area。
that you see and where you are moved to compassion?。
What do you think?。
So as we make those observations about the people around us。
and we become aware of the needs,。
you know, there's usually two ways that we respond to that.。
One of them is, I just wanna get involved right away。
and I jump right into action.。
And a lot of times we burn out when we do that。
or it's just a short lift, you know,。
we do it for a little bit and then we move on.。
The other reaction, I think this is the,。
probably the more common one,。
is that we see our neighbors,。
we see their need,。
we start to understand the complexities。
of the issues that they're facing。
and we just get so overwhelmed.。
And we feel so small and we're like,。
I don't know what I can do or where to even start.。
And then even though we're moved,。
we don't know what to do with it。
and then after a while we just,。
in order to not have this cognitive dissonance,。
we set it on the back shelf。
and we just move on with our lives.。
And I think that's the way that Satan snatches away。
those things that he has, the Holy Spirit has sown。
and that he wants to move through us this year in 2021.。
But Jesus, he actually provides us some perspective on that。
and so I wanna share it with you,。
continuing in Matthew 9, verse 37, it says,。
then he said to his disciples,。
the harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few.。
Ask the Lord of the harvest,。
therefore to send out workers into the harvest field.。
And I love this here.。
Jesus acknowledges that the difficult reality,。
the harvest is plentiful, there's so much to do,。
but the workers are few.。
But he also tells us what to do。
and it's not what we tend to do,。
it's not jumping right into。
or disengaging and just feeling overwhelmed。
and not doing anything, it's neither of just two things.。
He tells us in this overwhelming need to start with prayer.。
And it's prayer that propels us forward。
in responding in a powerful way。
to the needs that we see around us.。
It's prayer that leads us and propels us。
into living out the river model vision in 2021.。
Besides the Lord's Prayer, by the way,。
this is the only time where Jesus tells us。
specifically what to pray for.。
Where he actually gives us the content, pray this.。
So we should pay attention to that.。
And Jesus is saying, don't get overwhelmed,。
don't get stuck in that place,。
don't just rush also into it,。
but pray and remember who I am.。
I'm the Lord of the harvest, I'm already,。
I'm the good shepherd, I'm already working in people's lives.。
I'm the one who gives divine appointments,。
I'm the one who transforms and who changes lives.。
I'm the one who has all the resources that are needed。
to love this city.。
Start with prayer.。
And when his church prays,。
and when his church prays, guess what happens?。
The river starts flowing。
'cause Jesus starts sending out his river workers.。
Now, the word for being sent out, and I love this,。
this is actually my favorite little nugget。
from this passage, is ekbalo.。
And it actually can be translated as cast out,。
flung out, drive out, thrust out.。
Now, just think about this.。
Jesus is telling us to pray that we, his people, the church,。
is gonna be cast out.。
This is the same word that Jesus used to cast out a demon.。
So he's telling us to pray for workers to be cast out.。
Now, why is that?。
Well, I think the answer is obvious。
'cause a lot of times we're living in our comfort place。
and we're just dealing with our own lives.。
Or we are living in this place of just being overwhelmed。
and we need the powerful move of the Holy Spirit。
to light a fire in our belly to go out。
and to do the work that Jesus is inviting us into,。
his healing, his redeeming, his restoring work.。
So I wanna challenge you this year to pray。
that Jesus will cast us out as his river workers。
all over Hong Kong.。
And in January, we are having our fast,。
so that's a perfect time, you have no excuse.。
That's a perfect time to be praying.。
So let's see what happens as we do that.。
Now, in Matthew 10, one through five,。
so we're gonna continue looking here at this passage,。
and I'm not gonna read all of this.。
I'm not gonna butcher all the disciples' names,。
but I'm gonna just read a couple of verses.。
He says, "Jesus called his 12 disciples to him。
"and gave them authority to drive out impure spirits。
"and to heal every disease and illness."。
And then there's a name of the 12 apostles,。
and I continue in verse five.。
He says, "These 12 Jesus sent out.。
"The disciples prayed for workers to be sent out,。
"and then Jesus sends them out.。
"They're the answer to their prayer.。
"When Jesus commissions them as apostles,。
"as sent out ones, he gives them authority。
"to cast out evil spirits and to heal。
"every disease and affliction."。
And in other words, he provides for them。
the gifts of ministry that they need to do his work.。
And guess what?。
When we pray about being cast out,。
now Jesus, he also, when Jesus sends us out。
to carry out the river model vision,。
he empowers us for the task at hand,。
and he also gives us the specific gifts of ministry。
that we need to carry out his work.。
This is something that we can be encouraged by,。
because Jesus, he sets us up for success, not for failure.。
He calls us into something that we can actually do.。
Now, in this passage, there's a significant shift。
and transformation.。
The disciples of Jesus, they've been sort of tagging along。
with Jesus and watching him,。
and it must have been pretty cool to watch him.。
I wish I could have been one of the disciples。
during that time and seen Jesus in that way in action.。
But they've been watching him.。
And so now, through this prayer,。
there's a transformation.。
They become active participants in Jesus's work.。
They're no longer just observers.。
They're active participants.。
Now, I believe that Jesus is calling us,。
he wants to do a shift in us as a church。
from watching maybe ministry leaders,。
or there's always a certain group of people。
who do a lot of watching them and just being observers.。
He wants to shift us to being his river workers。
and active participants in what he wants to do。
in Hong Kong in 2021.。
Now, this shift, it's a supernatural thing.。
We can't force that on our own.。
It's the Holy Spirit working in us.。
And so let's pray for that.。
So how can we step into 2021。
and start living out the river model vision?。
How do we do that?。
Well, first, start with prayer.。
Pray for workers to be cast out into the city。
as his river workers.。
Next, realize that Jesus, he uses the word workers.。
The Greek word for workers,。
here used here is ergates,。
which simply means an agricultural worker or laborer.。
So Jesus, he tells us to pray for workers.。
Not for expert community developers, theologians,。
particular personality types.。
If someone has those skills or that personality,。
that's awesome.。
But he tells us to pray for ordinary people。
like you and like me to go out and do his work.。
But we struggle with that, don't we?。
A lot of times we feel inadequate。
or we don't feel qualified。
or we feel like we're lacking something。
or we personally become 50 times more mature.。
And so we don't think that God can use us。
and work through us.。
However, even small acts of service can be used by God。
to achieve his purposes。
because we are not acting in our own strength,。
but out of God's strength。
and we're sent by his authority。
and we're equipped with his giftings.。
Now let me share with you a true story.。
This is a story from the US.。
There was a high school student and he was walking home。
and then he was looking over and he saw this other student。
and the student was dropping his books.。
He was carrying a lot of books,。
so he decided, you know what, I'm gonna go over.。
And so he helped the student pick up the books.。
And then he was thinking to himself,。
hey, if I don't help this person carry home,。
I'm just gonna keep dropping them,。
so I'm just gonna walk home with them.。
So he helped him carry the books home.。
And they started talking and they had a great conversation。
and a friendship grew out of that.。
So several months later,。
the student that had dropped the books,。
he told his friend,。
hey, do you remember the day when we first met?。
Yeah, yeah, of course I do.。
He's like, do you know why I had all these books。
with me that day?。
He's like, no.。
Well, I had gone to school,。
I had cleared out my locker。
'cause nobody talked to me, nobody cared for me,。
and I was gonna take my life.。
That day, you saved my life.。
Never underestimate small acts of kindness and compassion。
and how God can use them.。
He wants to work powerfully through them.。
He wants to touch people's lives。
through you here in Hong Kong.。
He wants his love and compassion to flow through you.。
Now, the river model vision,。
it's more about regularly practicing small acts of kindness。
and mercy than one-off grand gestures.。
So it's about that daily dying to self。
and going that little bit out of our way。
to help somebody pick up books。
or to pay attention to somebody, listen to someone,。
to ask somebody out for lunch.。
And don't underestimate how God wants to work through you。
and touch people's lives.。
Now, I wanna leave you with two, what I call,。
and I'm really excited about this term, by the way,。
river habits that you can practice.。
The first one is reach out to two people each week。
to see how they're doing.。
It's as simple, every one of us can do that.。
And I wanna encourage you to go above and beyond。
the people you usually reach out to or talk to.。
So don't talk to your best friend,。
you're already talking to them anyhow.。
And just give them a call,。
take some time to talk to your neighbor,。
talk to somebody at your workplace,。
but also talk to somebody at church。
that maybe you don't know that well.。
So talk to two people every week and see how they're doing.。
And put that in your calendar, by the way,。
if you don't put it in your calendar, it doesn't happen.。
Second, the second river habit,。
bless someone this week.。
Go again, above and beyond what you normally would do.。
Buy somebody some awesome coffee,。
buy a family that's struggling with groceries,。
buy some groceries and get to know them better.。
Encourage someone with a note。
or with some really thoughtful words。
that you're gonna share with them.。
So I wanna challenge you to choose。
one of these two habits this week and to practice them。
and trust that God will work through them.。
Tell someone that you're gonna do that,。
like invite your community group and talk to your spouse,。
talk to your friend and challenge them to do it as well。
and see what happens as Christ's compassion flows through you。
to the people around you.。
The city that we love,。
the people that we love are in pain.。
In 2021, will we make ourselves available。
to be God's river workers?。
Let me pray for us.。
Jesus, you have seen our 2020,。
you care deeply about it,。
but not only ours, but also for this whole city.。
And you want everyone to know you as the good shepherd。
and you want your love to flow through the city。
where there's hope and new life and transformation.。
And Jesus, I pray that you would cast us out。
as your river workers in 2021,。
that we would say yes to that,。
that we would allow ourselves to be used by you。
for your kingdom purpose.。
Now pray right now also for those who just maybe,。
we don't feel confident that you would give them,。
that you would release faith and encourage to do this,。
that even this week as we practice these habits,。
that we already would experience you working through that.。
And also wanna pray for those。
who are still struggling and in pain,。
that you would bring people around them to walk with them,。
that we know that you are with them,。
that you would continue to reveal yourself。
and just lift those burdens。
and that you would speak to them, give them specific words。
that will guide them and give them direction and hope.。
And so we pray that you would help us。
to wrap up this 2020 well,。
but also that you would bless our 2021.。
And so into your hands, we commit that.。
In your name, Jesus, amen.。
