Welcome, Church, to this unusual Sunday where we find ourselves at home due to this T8 storm.。
My name is Justin, one of the pastors here at The Vine Church.。
On this Sunday, we didn't think it was right for this T8 storm to hold us back from kicking。
off our brand new summer sermon series in the book of James.。
As each of us are learning to navigate what it means to live faithfully to God while loving。
others in this season of Uncharted, the book of James has so much to teach us about what。
it means to love God, to love our neighbor, to love ourselves, with radical obedience,。
but also with a radical faith that is tethered with practical daily wisdom that the book。
of James provides.。
This morning, we have the privilege of hearing the first out of five messages in this sermon。
series from Pastor Phil.。
This is actually also his first time he's preaching here at The Vine Church.。
Before Pastor Phil gets here, I would like to pray for us.。
So let us pray.。
Father, we pray together this morning, no matter where we are listening in, tuning in,。
no matter whether there's a real storm raging outside or there are many storms raging within。
each of us, Father, I ask that you would give us the grace to be unhurried today, to be。
not distracted, but would you grant us the grace to be able to focus in what you have。
to say to us individually and as a community through Phil's word, through the word that。
you've given Phil.。
And so we just attend to you now.。
And so would you speak to your church as we pray and as we worship this morning.。
Jesus in your name we pray.。
Amen.。
Hi, church.。
I'm so glad to be starting this five week summer series on the book of James today.。
When Pastor Ellison sat down to design the summer series, he sensed God was really reminding。
him of the importance for radical faith and obedience in us to embrace the uncharted times。
we are in.。
And with these recurring themes in mind, we can really rise to the challenge by going。
through James together, given its relevancy and strong challenge the book of James provide.。
You might not have read James before.。
You might have read plenty of James.。
Or perhaps you are like me, who have dabbled here and there for golden verses in the wealth。
of James throughout your Christian life.。
What is exciting, though, is that in these five weeks, we are all going to be doing it。
together.。
We'll be getting behind it, studying it in our CGs, teaching and preaching on it, applying。
it into our lives, and to have us looking forward to the series, let me present you。
with what we can expect to talk about in the coming five weeks.。
Each week, we will cover a chapter of the book, and the listed topic are on the slide.。
To give us some context before we begin, James is not easy to follow in the sense this circular。
letter he writes to his fellow Christian Jews is incredibly rapid fire.。
James would make a punchy and wise one-liner of an instruction or a reminder, and then。
off he goes to another one-liner.。
He doesn't really dwell to form a proper argument.。
Doing a bit of research on James tells me that this book has the highest concentration。
of imperative verbs in the Bible.。
Imperatives are command verbs, typically at the beginning of a sentence, and the 108。
verses there are in the five chapters of James, there are 61 imperatives in it.。
James the book is a bossy book, the bossiest book you can say in the Bible.。
But James the person isn't on caffeine pills.。
He doesn't go over stimulant for no reason.。
He wants the church to get practical, not just to land on or cherry pick a verse that。
is good to memorize on a bad day.。
He wants us to come under and receive the implanted Word of God by being doers of the。
Word.。
James chapter 1, verse 21 and 22.。
So in other words, to accept the Word planted in us, to allow the Word to influence and。
form us in all parts of our lives as we take Jesus at his Word.。
And so at every turn, when we see a new set of commands being prescribed in James, in。
each one of them, the serious reader has to ask the question, "Am I doing what it tells。
me to do?"。
Or rather, "Am I doing all that it tells me to do?"。
The title of today's message is "Pure Religion" and the phrase is found in the first chapter。
of James, verse 27.。
Before we go there, I want to ask you what is it that comes to mind when you hear the。
word religion or the word religious, such as "So and so is religious."。
Do you feel excited or sceptical or proud or embarrassed by these words?。
My boy Cyril is in pre-nursery now and his K1 applications for kindergarten comes to。
mind when I think about the word religion.。
In these applications, there's always three blanks to be filled about religion.。
God's religion, mum's religion, and dad's religion.。
I've seen a lot of these forms now and I'm constantly in disbelief of the bits of things。
they ask in the forms.。
What do you mean by Cyril's religion?。
He has only recently turned three years old and the true and honest answer would probably。
be his toy cars if religion is about who or what we pursue in the greatest devotion.。
There are toy cars in every room and on every furniture in our apartments, more than there。
are crosses in our home.。
Yet to be filling in NA, not applicable for Protestant or Catholic school, it will probably。
be fatal given the competition and the score system around these interviews.。
You see, considerations and assumptions are already going on in my head when I think about。
the word religion.。
I'm thinking about the religion that Cyril identifies with.。
I'm thinking about what others are going to think about Cyril's religion or mine religion。
or Christina's religion.。
Let's turn to James chapter 1, verse 26 and 27 and I'm going to read it for us.。
Those who consider themselves religious and yet do not keep a tight rein on their tongues。
deceive themselves and their religion is worthless.。
Religion that God our Father accepts as pure and faultless is this, to look after orphans。
and widows in their distress and to keep oneself from being polluted by the world.。
The Greek word for consider, those who consider themselves religious, that very word is doceio.。
It gives the meaning to regard, to seem to others or to think of oneself and it carries。
the idea of something that appears a certain way either to others or to oneself.。
And therefore notice as we read these verses we see James drawing a clear distinction between。
two types of religion.。
In verse 26 James describes a human-centered religion, a religion that is perceived or。
regarded as valid by humankind.。
In verse 27 James shifts our focus on the God-centered religion, a religion that is。
pure and faultless before the very eyes of God.。
This is the kind of religion that our Father can accept because it is religion on his very。
terms.。
Let's pause here for a moment and reflect on the word religion used in this passage.。
It's an interesting word because it occurs quite rarely in the New Testament.。
When it does it always refers to outward practices or ceremonies performed in honor of a God.。
James doesn't seem to suggest there's anything wrong with religion, that is the religious。
or traditional rituals in themselves.。
He doesn't dismiss the value of outward expressions of faith.。
Instead what James takes issue with is rituals that go no further than outward show and empty。
words.。
Religion like that, James says, is worthless or useless if we read other translations.。
The concern here is that it is so easy to wear the label of a Christian without letting。
the life of Christ transform us, our action, our minds, our hearts, to call ourselves Christians。
and yet look a lot more of the world than of Jesus Christ who bids us to follow him.。
Notice I say transform here because the Christian life is a journey and God's saving grace continues。
in every believer to make us more and more like Jesus.。
We're not perfect, we're all getting there when we align ourselves to the trajectory。
of spiritual maturity which God intends and his grace enables.。
But there is a problem when the pleasures of this world or the desire for approval really。
gets a hold of us.。
Are we compromising our faith and rather than devoting every part of ourselves to God's。
delight and pleasure, we have somehow put him down somewhere in the pecking order.。
One more thought before I move on.。
I've explained the dichotomy between verse 26 and verse 27 and the contrast there may。
cause us to think in black and white manner.。
That we are either superficial Christians or genuine Christians.。
But that is problematic because realistically speaking that isn't the case.。
Additionally this manner of thinking causes us to judge and shame and guilt ourselves。
and others.。
Rather it is Holy Spirit who inspires us and convicts us.。
So instead I've thought about how to modernise this bit of teaching here and I want you to。
think about the contemporary internet memes we see when we scroll our social media apps.。
Think for a moment about those graphic memes we often see on social media.。
You know, the ones with a split image.。
The left side labelled one way and the right side labelled another to call us out.。
I think if James was living in our age he would create a meme to drive us home.。
On the left side he would say "Christianity on people's terms" and on the right side。
he would caption "Christianity on Father God's terms".。
Do you see what Gen Z James is doing here?。
How would that meme look for you?。
What would be on each split of the image?。
Would the split image on the right "Christianity that Father God accepts" mirror the split。
image on the left "Christianity that I see as valid"?。
James wants us to cross examine our Christian lives against the Christianity our Father。
God accepts.。
Does the way we live match up with our claims of saying that we are Christian?。
And so as Holy Spirit convicts all of us Church, know that we don't close in the disparity。
by discarding or disregarding religion.。
Religion is worthy.。
Christianity is worthy.。
It is pure religion when it's all about and only about having a relationship with God。
on his terms.。
And what do we do then?。
Well we need to go and practice pure religion in the way James teaches us and so let us。
get back to the Word and take a look at the verses on pure religion again.。
Here James suggests three specific marks of pure religion, that is controlling the tongue,。
concern for the helpless and the keeping oneself from being polluted by the world.。
These three marks to some extent set the agenda for the rest of the letter and we are certainly。
going to return to these in more detail in the next sermons dealing with our tongue and。
our social responsibility.。
For now I will very briefly extract the principle in these first two marks and spend the rest。
of the time on the third mark of pure religion, keeping oneself unstained by the world which。
precisely gives us the quality pure in pure religion.。
That is our title for today.。
So the first principle we can extract is this, having total control over the self.。
Self-control is so important especially in the times we live where everywhere we look。
there seems to be a real decline in discipline and in restraint.。
The organ that is easiest to let loose is our tongue which is why James mentioned the。
controlling of the tongue but in reality we are talking about self-control in every department。
in us.。
Pure religion is self-control.。
The second principle we can extract from the second mark, looking after orphans and widows。
in their distress, is compassion.。
Pure religion is to be compassionate.。
Hearing this mark we might automatically be led to think about who the modern day distressed。
orphans and widows are.。
Maybe the homeless, the trafficked, the abused and yet the numbers we have for orphans and。
widows are already staggering.。
The 2023 statistics tells us that the number of children living in institutional care is。
4,000 and the number of female over the ages of 65 that are widowed, divorced or separated。
is 358,800.。
This principle stresses that our religion is not a passive one, not one that we can。
claim to be Christian as long as we are not actively breaking commandments that displease。
us God.。
Christianity that remains at goodwill, remains at being nice and empathic towards others。
without crossing over to gut-wrenching compassionate care for others isn't Christianity because。
it doesn't resemble the incarnate Christ at all.。
We are going to the third principle and we're going to spend some time here considering。
what it means to be pure.。
Keeping ourselves unstained by the world.。
Essentially they are the same quality, being pure and being unstained.。
The Greek for pure is katharos and it translates to clean or free.。
It's used as a qualifier to talk about the state of the heart.。
Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see the Lord, Jesus says.。
And so purity is really about a single-minded heart unto God while we are in this world.。
We can be lawyers, bankers, salespeople, homemakers, teachers and we are said to be pure when we。
go about our roles in such God-consciousness, we make sure we are the ones carrying a Christ-like。
influence into the world rather than the other way round, having the world bring its influence。
on us.。
Because the world, the word that we find in this passage, the word we are told to be unstained。
from refers to the world system ruled by God's enemy.。
Theologian Douglas Moo explains it like this.。
The world is a common biblical way of referring to the ungodly worldview and lifestyle that。
characterize human life in an estrangement from the Creator.。
It is the system of order contrary to the heavenly order.。
Christians who have ended that estrangement by accepting the reconciling work of God in。
Christ must constantly work to keep themselves spotless from the world's contaminating influence.。
I want you to recall your own story, the time you became a Christian or the time you started。
to take faith seriously.。
We didn't set out to become a Christian with the aim to have it on our own terms.。
Nobody sets out to follow Jesus with the aim to also have one foot in the world until life。
gets brutal.。
And so James had in mind the dire circumstances of his contemporary Christian Jews when he。
wrote the letter, Jews who had received the gospel, converted over to Christianity and。
living outside of Israel.。
Many of them were in poverty, in sickness.。
Many were facing persecution, financial oppression and social marginalization because of their。
faith.。
Many of them could be better off in the world's terms if they would look a little bit more。
like the world.。
You see, persecution is the clash between two irreconcilable value systems.。
I am borrowing this quote of Andrew Sermon in March, titled Persecution.。
It's fantastic to revisit and it was from March this year.。
Only until we have become Christians, we realize the full force of the world acting against。
our commitment to follow Jesus.。
Only until we have become Christians that the burdens and pressures, that the trials。
and temptations seem to rack up.。
And that is because by being in Christ, we have become aliens and social outcasts to。
this world.。
And that is why in harsh circumstances, we are very vulnerable to the delusion that it。
is okay to put our needs, whether emotional or physical, back to the forefront in the。
very place only God used to be.。
That it is okay to be friends with the world and friends with God at the same time.。
We want to believe such place exists, where we will always be considered by God and consoled。
by God regardless of our actions, where we can enjoy the thrill of feeling right and。
need not necessarily endure the inconvenience of being right.。
I want to say this again, where we can enjoy the thrill of feeling right and need not necessarily。
endure the inconvenience of being right.。
That somehow our religious performances and services and church attendance would make。
us feel worthy again.。
Beloved brothers and sisters, do not be deceived.。
It doesn't work like that.。
Three times in this chapter, James notions the Christian Jews not to fall for a lie.。
Seeing the fragility of these Christian Jews and their susceptibility to fall for the world。
again, he pled them not to fall for the impression that they could be happy having one foot in。
God and the other in the world.。
The bubble must be burst.。
This sometimes feel good human-centred religion in Christianity doesn't deliver and has to。
go.。
Church, this living and active word in James is still very relevant in us.。
We also perhaps need to have our bubbles burst.。
To remember that there are no shortcuts to Christian living, to remember that God's。
purposes are always greater than our own, that ultimate joy and freedom comes from living。
fully for him.。
So what shall we do then?。
We've covered some theological ground today.。
We've encountered the word.。
We've heard bits of relatable things here and there.。
And we now need to think about how to put this into practice.。
Are we ready?。
Let us work our way for some application for all of us to take home this week.。
First of all, I want all of us to read the first chapter of James for this week.。
Whether it is with your CG or on your own, to read it through and to really appreciate。
the thought of James, because we have only really looked at the last two verses in chapter。
one today.。
And yet the whole chapter, the whole of mind, the whole mind of James until this point,。
he was building up to these two verses.。
So application one, everybody let's read the chapter of James, the first chapter of James.。
Okay, second application, reflect and write down a few things that cause you to compromise。
your faith.。
So when James wrote his greeting for the letter, he addressed himself as slave of God and of。
the Lord Jesus Christ.。
You might have seen this type of self-identification used elsewhere in the New Testament letters。
before with Paul or with Peter.。
And provocatively identifying themselves as slave, the New Testament writers wanted their。
Christian readers to also follow suit, to own the identity for themselves.。
For James, the very brother of Jesus, he preferred identifying himself as slave over than brother。
to Jesus.。
For him, the emphasis was to encourage his readers that it is the daily taking on the。
role of slave that leads Christians to ultimate freedom from the pleasures and hardships。
and temptations of this life.。
And so when we are to reflect and write the things that compromise our faith, what we're。
doing is we're exposing and owning up to God the things that we are attached to or that。
we are enslaved or that we are vulnerable to.。
And in this regard, we're saying, God, we desire to assume the role of a slave to Christ。
and not to anything else.。
Application three, to pray and ask for wisdom.。
We come to this final application point and it is to ask for wisdom from our generous。
father.。
James promises us that when we ask God of wisdom, he will give it to us.。
This type of wisdom isn't like knowledge or experience.。
It isn't about the book smarts or the street smarts.。
And while these things are super important in life, when we face tough times, we especially。
need wisdom.。
Wisdom is godly perception to help us know what's going on or what's happening to me。
during tough times.。
Wisdom tells us the right reactions to have during these times.。
Wisdom doesn't cause us to be rich or clever, but it causes us to be fit for purposes that。
God wills us.。
That's what we're doing when we are asking for God's wisdom.。
It is saying, "Lord, I want your wisdom to see what you think about this, to see from。
your point of view."。
And without wisdom, we would always think conforming and compromising to the world's。
standards are good trade-offs.。
And that's why throughout the whole chapter, we have James carrying out a reversal of the。
world's opinion, giving us commands that are upside down in the world's standards and。
yet the right way up.。
For example, the world tells us that it is okay to cuss and grumble when we face trials.。
James 1.2, consider it pure joy when we face trials.。
The world tells us that we are in a secure position and we have a house and a car and。
a good paying job.。
James 1.9, believers who are poor have something to boast about.。
So in other words, in God's opinion, the rich aren't better off than the poor.。
The world tells us God is to blame for our temptation.。
James 1.12, God blesses those who patiently endure testing and temptations.。
The world tells us that it is important to fight for our rights.。
James 1.19, be quick to listen, slow to speak, slow to get fired up.。
And so the final application here we have to ask God for wisdom.。
Okay, just to quickly summarize, the first application to read the whole chapter of James.。
The second application to ask God and to write down the things that we compromise in our。
faith.。
And finally, to ask God for wisdom, to ask God for his opinion on every matter in life.。
As I draw to a close, I want to bring up a quote that has encouraged me greatly in my。
sermon prep.。
This quote afforded me the boldness to represent God here, encouraging us not to worry with。
persecution, to not worry with nominal Christians, to not worry about being visible in this religion,。
but to endure and to take him at his word.。
One of the greatest paradoxes in Christian history is that the church is most pure in。
times of cultural hostility, when things are easy and good.。
That is when the church most often goes astray.。
When Christianity seems identical with the culture and even when the church seems to。
be enjoying its greatest earthly success, then it is weakest.。
Conversely, when the church encounters hardship, persecution and suffering, then it is closest。
to its crucified Lord.。
Then there are fewer hypocrites and nominal believers amongst its members.。
And then the faith of Christians burns most intensely.。
Let us pray, church.。
Father, what we are after is a faith that burns intensely.。
We know for a fact that we are closest to your Son, our crucified Lord, when we endure。
and take him at his word.。
In his words, he intends us to obey.。
They are not unattainable ideals because we have your Holy Spirit leading us.。
In this world where you have put us in, help us to have such purity and single-mindedness。
to endure as we can physically see you.。
Grant us wisdom and boldness to practice religion that is pure and acceptable in your sights.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
♪ Mm ♪。
♪ Oh ♪。
♪ Yeah ♪。
♪ Ooh ♪。
♪ Mm ♪。
♪ Ooh ♪。
♪ Mm ♪。
♪ Ooh ♪。
♪ Ooh ♪。
♪ Ooh ♪。
♪ Ooh ♪。
♪ We're returning to repentance ♪。
♪ We come humbly to your presence ♪。
♪ Lord Jesus all that matters now is you ♪。
♪ Is you ♪。
♪ Oh we lay down our agendas ♪。
♪ All our burdens and offenses ♪。
♪ Lord Jesus all that matters now is you ♪。
♪ Oh all that matters now is you ♪。
♪ Christ is our portion ♪。
♪ Christ our devotion ♪。
♪ Christ is the center of our lives ♪。
♪ He is our obsession ♪。
♪ He is our confession ♪。
♪ Christ is the center of our lives ♪。
♪ In the morning, in the evening ♪。
♪ You're the one thing we are seeking ♪。
♪ We come boldly, we are open to you now ♪。
♪ Oh you are ♪。
♪ You are healing all division ♪。
♪ You are mending all that's broken ♪。
♪ Make us holy, make us holy like you are ♪。
♪ Oh all that matters now is you ♪。
♪ Christ is our portion ♪。
♪ Christ our devotion ♪。
♪ Christ is the center of our lives ♪。
♪ Yes he is ♪。
♪ He is our obsession ♪。
♪ He is our confession ♪。
♪ Christ is the center of our lives ♪。
♪ As for me and this house ♪。
♪ We will serve you, glorify you ♪。
♪ Let it be in this house ♪。
♪ That we love you and obey you ♪。
♪ You are Lord of this house ♪。
♪ You're the first and you're the only ♪。
♪ In the midst of the town ♪。
♪ You are holy, you are worthy ♪。
♪ Christ is our portion ♪。
♪ Christ our devotion ♪。
♪ Christ is the center of our lives ♪。
♪ Oh ♪。
♪ He is our obsession ♪。
♪ He is our confession ♪。
♪ Christ is the center of our lives ♪。
♪ As for me and this house ♪。
♪ As for me and this house ♪。
♪ We will serve you, glorify you ♪。
♪ Let it be in this house ♪。
♪ That we love you and obey you ♪。
♪ You are Lord of this house ♪。
♪ You're the first and you're the only ♪。
♪ In the midst of the town ♪。
♪ You are holy, you are worthy ♪。
♪ Oh, all that matters now is you ♪。
♪ Oh, all that matters now is you ♪。
♪ Oh, all that matters now is you ♪。
♪ Jesus, oh, all that matters now is you ♪。
♪ All that matters now is you ♪。
♪ Christ is our portion ♪。
♪ Christ our devotion ♪。
♪ Christ is the center of our lives ♪。
♪ He is our obsession ♪。
♪ He is our confession ♪。
♪ Christ is the center of our lives ♪。
♪ Our lives ♪。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
♪ This is my prayer in the desert ♪。
♪ When all that's within me feels dry ♪。
♪ This is my prayer and my hunger and need ♪。
♪ My God is the God who provides ♪。
♪ This is my prayer in the fire ♪。
♪ In weakness or trial or pain ♪。
♪ There is a faith through the mower and gold ♪。
♪ To refine me, Lord, through the faith ♪。
♪ I will bring praise, I will bring praise ♪。
♪ No weapon formed against me shall remain ♪。
♪ I will rejoice, I will declare ♪。
♪ God is my victory and He is near ♪。
♪ He is near ♪。
♪ This is my prayer in the battle ♪。
♪ When triumph is still on its way ♪。
♪ I am a conqueror and coheir with Christ ♪。
♪ So firm on this promise I'll stand ♪。
♪ And I will bring praise, I will bring praise ♪。
♪ No weapon formed against me shall remain ♪。
♪ I will rejoice, I will declare ♪。
♪ God is my victory and He is near ♪。
♪ All of my life in every season ♪。
♪ You are still God ♪。
♪ I have a reason to sing ♪。
♪ I have a reason to worship ♪。
♪ All of my life in every season ♪。
♪ You are still God ♪。
♪ I have a reason to sing ♪。
♪ I have a reason to worship ♪。
♪ All of my life ♪。
♪ All of my life in every season ♪。
♪ You are still God ♪。
♪ I have a reason to sing ♪。
♪ I have a reason to worship ♪。
♪ All of my life ♪。
♪ All of my life in every season ♪。
♪ You are still God ♪。
♪ I have a reason to sing ♪。
♪ I have a reason to worship ♪。
♪ So I will bring praise, I will bring praise ♪。
♪ No weapon formed against me shall remain ♪。
♪ I will rejoice, I will declare ♪。
♪ God is my victory and He is near ♪。
♪ I will bring praise, I will bring praise ♪。
♪ No weapon formed against me shall remain ♪。
♪ I will rejoice, I will declare ♪。
♪ God is my victory and He is near ♪。
♪ Oh, He is near ♪。
♪ You are here, Lord ♪。
♪ You are ♪。
♪ This is my prayer in the harvest ♪。
♪ When favor and providence flow ♪。
♪ I know I'm filled to be emptied again ♪。
♪ The seed I've received I will sow ♪。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
