Yeah, as he shared earlier, it was a tough week for you.。
And I know that it was tough for Lucas, but maybe we just pray for Lucas real quick.。
Can we just pray as a community for Lucas?。
Father, we thank you for Lucas and for the fact that he is stronger, that he's doing better.。
He's running around here today.。
But Lord, we want to pray for protection for him in particular as his body continues to recover.。
And we just bless Michi and Ivan as they continue to lead their family and lead this church so well.。
And we just pray a blessing over them in Jesus' name.。
Well, it is such an honor to be with you guys here today, as always,。
to be able to come up here to Yuen Long every once in a while and spend time with you guys.。
And yeah, I'm really carrying something quite personal in my heart for us here today,。
something that I think is really important for us to wrestle with, particularly with how the world is right now.。
And I don't know about you, but I've been kind of really sitting in the reality that the world is in a very challenging place right now.。
I mean, obviously, we saw the good news this week with the potential peace that is coming in Gaza.。
But if you look at what's happening around the world right now, it's a really challenging time.。
I feel like when I have to open up my phone in the morning, I feel like I have to brace myself for, you know,。
that kind of feeling of like what bad news might be coming through the news channels here today.。
Anyone else feel a little bit like that at the moment?。
And it sort of asks a lot of questions for us as Christians, I think.。
You know, when the world is a challenging place, you know, how do we live in that time?。
And I want to frame a little bit of what I want to share today, just around a bit of a story when I was at Bible school.。
So my wife and I went to Bible school in New Zealand.。
I'm British by background, but my wife is a Kiwi from New Zealand.。
And so we went to Bible school in New Zealand, in Auckland.。
And I don't know if you've ever been to Auckland before.。
Amazing city, great place.。
The main street in the downtown area of Auckland is a street called Queen Street.。
And Queen Street works all the way down to the heart of Auckland city.。
And right there, there's a reasonably large park towards the bottom of Queen Street.。
And this park is famous for street performers to go and spend time in.。
So whether that's street magicians or just street performers trying to make a little bit of money.。
And they would often attract quite a large crowd around them.。
Now on this one particular day, I was walking down Queen Street.。
And right past Queen Street, there was a shopping mall that I was looking to get into.。
But I had to walk through the park to get to the shopping mall.。
So I'm walking through the park and I notice that there's a relatively large crowd.。
Maybe about sort of 50 to 60 people all standing around this guy who's doing some sort of street magic or street performance.。
And as I'm walking, I'm skirting around the outside of the crowd.。
And I hear the guy in the middle of the crowd shout out, "Sir! Sir! Stop walking!"。
And so I kind of look up wondering if he was speaking to me.。
And I noticed that he was speaking to me.。
He's like, "Sir! Sir! Stop walking!"。
So I stop walking and all like 60 people turn around and start staring at me.。
And he goes, "Sir, I bet I could read your mind."。
And I thought to myself like, you know, in those moments, like, what do you do, right?。
There's like 60 people staring at you.。
And all 60 people are like, "Yes, I wonder whether he can read your mind."。
You know, like they're really into it, right?。
He's like, "Sir, I bet I can read your mind. Would you come into the circle here with me, please?"。
And so I was like, I'm always up for a fight like this, right?。
So I'm like, there's no way this guy can read my mind.。
So this is going to be fun.。
So I go into the center and like 60 people like surrounding me and this guy's there.。
And he's like, he introduces himself and whatever.。
I introduce myself to the crowd.。
And he's like, "Okay, here's what I want you to do.。
I want you to think of something that I would never have the ability to know about you.。
Something that there's no way I could ever connect to you or that I would never know you or know about you.。
I want you to think of that thing and I want you to think of the word that represents that thing."。
So I thought to myself, well, what's the one thing this guy like doesn't know me from Adam will have no idea about?。
And I thought the vine, right? The vine.。
So if I could think about the vine, if I could think about our church, there's just no way he could ever say you're thinking about the vine, right?。
So he's like, "Have you got this thing in your head?"。
And I'm like, "Yes, yes, I've got it in my head."。
He's like, "Okay, I want you to start to describe it in your head."。
So I do in my head.。
I start thinking about Sundays and I think about the crowd and I think about services.。
I think about preaching.。
I think about the chairs.。
Like I'm thinking about everything that I can think about the vine.。
And this guy's walking around and he's saying, "Oh, I'm picking up the vibe. I'm picking up the vibe."。
And he's like, "I'm beginning to get it. Okay, I've got the first letter. The first letter is the letter V."。
I was thinking, "Okay."。
So there's like 26 letters in the alphabet, right?。
So this guy had a chance to drop the first letter in there, right?。
He's like, "V," right?。
And my face was like this, right?。
So he's like, "I'm right. It's V, isn't it?"。
And I'm like, "Yeah, yeah, it is V."。
He's like, "Okay, keep. I'm still getting it. I'm still getting it. Keep thinking."。
So I do. I think about the worship. I think about the preaching. Blah, blah, blah, blah.。
I'm thinking, right?。
He's like, "Okay, it was V."。
He's like, "It's V, V-I," he says.。
"V-I," like this.。
I'm like, "Okay, is this a setup?"。
Like I'm like, "Where are the cameras?"。
Like as my wife, this is not my anniversary or my birthday.。
Like what's going on?。
Like this guy's like, "V-I."。
And I'm like, my face again gives it away.。
You know, I'm amazed that this guy is like getting this, right?。
I'm like, "What is going on here?"。
And he's like, "No, no, I've got it now. I've got it now."。
And he's walking around. It was really interesting.。
He's walking around like the crowd as I'm standing in the middle.。
And everybody's staring at me. Everybody's staring at him.。
He's like, "I've got it. I've got it. I know exactly what you're thinking about. It's..."。
And he goes, "Violin!"。
He's like, "Violin!" Like this.。
Like, "Violin!"。
And here's the interesting thing.。
He goes, "Violin!" And he comes up to me and he grabs me.。
And he goes, "Yes!" Like this.。
The whole crowd around me goes, "Wow! That's amazing! He guessed it right!"。
So the whole crowd is like pumped up that he's guessed it right.。
I'm standing there. The guy's shaking me, going, "Yeah, yeah, yeah! We got it right!"。
And so I go, "Yes! You got it right! Yeah, violins! Yes, yes! I play the violins!"。
I totally get sucked in to this moment, right?。
And I realized afterwards that that was actually his trick.。
Of course he couldn't read my mind.。
I don't think anybody could do that unless there's some spiritual weird thing going on.。
He couldn't read my mind.。
But what he could do is he could manipulate my environment。
so that I could begin to think and believe the thing that he wanted me to think and believe.。
You following me?。
That was the power of the trick.。
And because there were like 60 people around me all going like, "Wow! He's amazing!"。
And then he's grabbing me and shaking me and making me feel like I'm amazing。
because I was a part of the trick.。
I'm beginning to feel awesome about myself.。
So I'm realizing that I've completely conformed myself to what this guy wants me to say, act, and do.。
And I thought afterwards how easy it was for me to do that.。
Which I think if you think about it is a really interesting human reflection.。
That we human beings don't like to stand out from the crowd in general.。
We human beings like to be liked.。
We like to be accepted.。
We like to be welcomed into a moment.。
We like to fit in.。
And in this moment I found myself lying publicly.。
Yes, it was violins. Yes, I do play the violin.。
I've never picked up the violin in my life.。
But I found myself lying in public because I didn't want to stand out。
and because of the power of the culture around me conforming me to think and act the way they wanted me to.。
And I realized I was at Bible school and I began to think about my faith.。
And I began to think about how many times in my life have I allowed the values of my faith。
to be compromised to the broader and bigger culture that's around me.。
I mean think about this for a moment in your own life.。
Think about your family life.。
Think about your work life.。
Perhaps for some of you in this room you're the only Christians in your family.。
Maybe you're a first generation Christian.。
So other family members don't hold the same values and culture of faith that you do.。
And I know that that's a hard situation to be in.。
Or at work maybe your boss or the company that you work for has values and culture。
that's very different from your Christian culture and values that you hold.。
And the question that we have to ask ourselves is the question on the screen behind me, right?。
Like how do we as Christians respond or act when our faith conflicts with the culture around us?。
I think that's the most important question that Christians should be asking at this time。
where the world seems to have gone crazy.。
How should we react?。
What should we do when our faith conflicts with the culture around us?。
Well, importantly, this is not the first time in history that Christians have had to ask that question.。
In fact, this is a question that's been asked for over 2,000 years of church history.。
I want to start today by actually mapping out for you the four ways that through the last 2,000 years。
the church has largely answered this question.。
Now, obviously I'm being a little bit generalizing in this,。
but I want to show you the four ways that the church through history has responded to this idea。
of how should I act and respond as a Christian to the culture that is around me.。
Here's the first way.。
It's what I would say is the way of escape.。
So here's what's happened in church history over those 2,000 years.。
There's been times where, let's have a look at this box,。
let's just say that this box is the world.。
And in this model, the world is seen as this dark and ugly and sinful and broken place.。
And really, when we are Christians, we're like the Christian inside of this really kind of broken and horrible world.。
And our heart and our passion and our hope is just to get out of it.。
Like, I just want to get out of the world.。
Like, I can see how dark it is, how difficult it is, how horrible it is.。
Man, if I could only kind of get out of it, then I wouldn't have to face myself within it.。
And from the earliest of the third century in church history,。
the church was beginning to embrace an escape model.。
Monasticism began, which was this idea of kind of getting out of the pollution of the world。
and becoming a holy community.。
Now, there's a lot of amazing things that have happened through the monastic movement.。
But at the heart of it was, we just want to get away.。
So the first thing that happens, I think, for Christians throughout history,。
if they're trying to think about what happens when their faith conflicts with the world, it's to escape.。
Here's the second one.。
It's to what I would call insulate.。
In other words, to protect myself within it.。
So once again, here's the world, and the world is this broken, bad, sinful place.。
And yet, as Christians, we find ourselves, whether we like it or not, living in this world.。
In fact, didn't Jesus himself say, "You are in the world."。
So if we think about the way that Jesus spoke about it,。
actually the escaping option isn't what we're called to.。
We are in the world, but then what does Jesus say straight after that?。
Come on, church.。
You're not of the world, right?。
So in this sense, church history, this is how the church has responded.。
It's like, okay, we have to be in the world, but we are not going to be of the world.。
And so what happens here is there is an insulation.。
It's like, how do we box ourselves in as an individual or as a church community。
so that, yes, we're in the world, but that world is not going to pollute us.。
And to do that, we kind of box ourselves away from that world.。
And what we try to think is, as long as everything is Christian within this little bubble here,。
everything will be okay.。
So we'll create Christian entertainment, Christian music, Christian movies,。
because we can't watch bad worldly movies.。
We can't watch Christian movies.。
We're going to listen to only Christian music.。
There's only going to be Christian everything.。
I'm going to have Christian utensils at my dinner table.。
Some monk prayed over these utensils, and it's good.。
As Christians, we take this to the extreme, but the reality is we've lived in this kind of model.。
The third model that we see is one that I would say is called control.。
Control is an interesting one.。
So once again, here's the world, and yes, it's broken, it's bad, it's sinful, it's dark, it's difficult.。
In the idea of control, it's like we Christians should fight back.。
We Christians shouldn't sit there and allow the broken, bad world to impact us and influence us.。
No, we should take a stand.。
Not only that, but we should so fight back that we become the dominant culture.。
The idea here is that where there's been brokenness, we're going to bring the blood of Jesus,。
and we're going to bring the things of Christ and the gospel,。
and we're going to completely dominate where there has been brokenness before.。
Now, on the surface, this sounds like a very good thing, does it not?。
Surely, this is the heart of the gospel, isn't it?。
To want to share the gospel so that people would come to know Jesus.。
The dangerous thing about the control model is that on the surface, it sounds like a good thing.。
Here's the problem.。
Throughout all of church history, when the church has embraced this model,。
it's always done it from a place of control.。
In other words, how do we enforce our Christian beliefs on everyone around us?。
Oh, the best thing would be is if the government was Christian.。
Oh, yes.。
Now, if the government was Christian, then surely all the laws would be Christian.。
And if all the laws would be Christian, we could legislate the kingdom of God into people's lives.。
And the problem is this thing becomes really messy because it takes worldly power,。
the control of things from the top down, and dresses it in Christian clothing.。
And things like Christian nationalism and other things emerge。
when Christians want to control from the top down rather than as Jesus would teach us, from the bottom up.。
The fourth model that we see is the one called conform.。
And this is me in Auckland on that street with the violins and everything like that.。
In this, the world again is broken and bad, and it's all beat up and all of that.。
And suddenly we find ourselves as Christians knowing that we have something else to say to it,。
knowing that we believe something unique for the world.。
But when push comes to shove, we're quite happy to assimilate into the bigger culture.。
We don't really want to stick out.。
And you know what? It's my beliefs, and they're personal to me, and I'm grateful for it.。
But they don't have to, "Hey, you do you. I'll do me."。
Or not even that, but when there's a conflict between what I believe in Jesus。
and what my office values are, or my family values are, or the person I'm dating's values are,。
I am happy to submit to that rather than become resistant and a pain.。
And we find ourselves so easily conforming to the ideas around the world.。
Okay, so I want you to take these four boxes, escape, insulate, control, conform.。
And I want you to think about this question here, and I want you just to think very quickly for yourself.。
Which one of these are you most tempted to embrace when there is a conflict。
between your faith and your values, or the values of the world around you?。
Are you more likely to escape, insulate, try to control your environment?。
Or are you more like, that's just an honest reflection for you.。
Now, I want to be honest about me. I see myself in all four of these buckets.。
I know what it is to try to escape. "Oh, Lord Jesus, the vine, man, it's so hard.。
If only I could not have to do it anymore.。
Like, if only I didn't have to face those people every week. Oh, Lord Jesus."。
So I know what it is to want to escape. I know what it is to insulate myself.。
I know what it is to try to control my environment.。
And to be honest with you, there have been far too many times when I have also conformed.。
And when you think about it in all of this way, it does ask that important question.。
Is there a better way to live? Is there a better way to live for Christ。
when we are deeply embedded in the culture around us。
that doesn't cause us to want to escape, insulate, control, or conform?。
I think that's a very important question.。
And that is the question that the book of Daniel is all about.。
If you've ever thought, what is the heart of the book of Daniel?。
Why do we have this story of this young man who's caught up in a Babylonian empire?。
And what do we see in the life of Daniel that enables him to say,。
"Look, there's a better way to engage with the culture around us."。
That enables the gospel, the hope of God to come out into the world。
without us wanting to escape, insulate, control, or conform to it.。
So what we're going to do over these six weeks is we're going to go through the story of the life of Daniel.。
And each week we're going to show you one way that Daniel began to model something differently.。
And here's our prayer for each one of you.。
That in this time where all of us have felt that tension。
between our faith and the surrounding culture,。
we want to begin to live a better way, do we not?。
I don't want to keep escaping.。
I don't want to insulate myself from the very world that we've been called to influence and impact.。
I don't want to try to control with worldly use of power.。
I want to continue to submit myself to the power of the kingdom.。
I don't want to conform, but I recognize the temptation within me so much to do so.。
Lord, show us a better way.。
Daniel chapter 1 begins to reveal this better way to us.。
Let me read you these words, just the first seven verses.。
"In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah,。
Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came to Jerusalem and besieged it.。
And the Lord delivered Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hands。
along with some of the articles from the temple of God.。
These he carried off to the temple of his God in Babylonia and put in the treasure of his God.。
Then the king ordered Ashfenaz, chief of the court officials,。
to bring in some of the Israelites from the royal family and the nobility.。
Young men without any physical defect, handsome, showing aptitude for every understanding,。
being kind of learning, well-informed, quick to understand,。
qualified to serve in the king's palace, basically people like Ivan.。
He was to teach them the language and the literature of the Babylonians.。
The king assigned them a daily amount of food and wine from the king's table.。
They were to be trained for three years and after that they were to enter the king's service.。
Among these were some from Judah, Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah.。
The chief official gave them new names, to Daniel, the name Belsavar,。
to Hananiah, Shadrach, to Mishael, Meshach, and to Azariah, Abnego.。
I want to stop there and I want to just situate this in some context for you。
and then we're going to unpack it.。
This is 600 years before Jesus.。
In this time, the Jewish people have consolidated themselves to their tribes,。
Benjamin and Judah, in Jerusalem.。
About 600 years before Jesus, Babylon comes as the empire and attacks them from the east.。
They basically tear down the walls of Jerusalem.。
They tear down the temple of Jerusalem and they kill about 80% of the Jewish people。
living in Jerusalem at that time.。
A remnant of Jewish people, about 20%, are then taken by the Babylonian empire into exile.。
That's the story we're reading here.。
Daniel, this young man, now living in exile.。
Note this, living now in a dominant culture around him。
that's different from the culture of his heart.。
He's now in a situation where he's got to ask himself,。
"How am I going to live in this culture?"。
The other thing you've got to understand is the Babylonian culture.。
The Babylonian culture was one of oppression, power,。
and one of complete control and eradication of those that they conquest.。
In other words, when they come into Jerusalem and they tear everything down,。
they're not trying to be nice to the Jewish people.。
They're literally trying to get rid of them.。
But not just get rid of their current generation, but all the generations to come.。
How they do that is by trying to assimilate that culture into their culture as the dominant one.。
You may not know this, but the remnant of the 20% of the people that were taken into exile。
were a very specific kind of people.。
They were the artists, the artisans, the singers and the musicians.。
The whole worship team here would have been taken into exile.。
All the storytellers, the poets.。
These were the ones that the Babylonians brought into exile.。
Not the tough people, the soldiers, all of that.。
They'd killed them.。
They brought the artists into exile.。
You should ask yourself, "Why did they bring the artists into exile?"。
It was because not that they wanted to learn from their culture.。
They wanted to brainwash them into their Babylonian culture.。
That's exactly what we see here in chapter 1 of Daniel.。
Notice a couple of things that happen here.。
First of all, they take some of the articles, the icons from the temple in Jerusalem。
and remove them and place them in their treasury.。
That's spiritual oppression.。
That's trying to wipe out the spiritual life of the people.。
Then notice just further down, he then teaches them the language and literature of the Babylonians.。
"Let's get rid of the Hebrew language. We're just going to get rid of it.。
You're not allowed to speak Hebrew in this country.。
You're now going to speak another language.。
It's the eradication of your identity."。
Language carries so much of our identity.。
Then notice at the end, they change their names.。
"Oh, here's your Hebrew name. No, no, no, no, no.。
We don't have Hebrew names here.。
You're now going to be called this."。
Everybody receives a Babylonian name.。
Your name is one of the most central parts of your identity.。
It's how you've come to understand and see yourself.。
No, you can't call yourself Daniel anymore.。
When you're here, you need to be calling yourself by this.。
So spiritually, language-wise, even their own name, their own clothes, everything about them.。
It's like, "We're going to wipe out your Hebrew culture,。
and we're going to replace it with this Babylonian culture."。
It's done by power, by attack, coercion, and manipulation.。
These four things are so used by the dominant culture to try to push out every other culture.。
This is why we still have wars today.。
The dominant culture wanting to cleanse away another culture.。
Attack, power, coercion, manipulation.。
This is very much, unfortunately, how during the Crusades in the 11th century,。
Christians began to do it.。
The eradication of other cultures with the imprinting through power of the Christian culture.。
It's even in our own history.。
Now, when you see this, you should realize that what's trying to be at work here。
is that the world enforces its culture on others through a process of outside-in.。
It's about taking the outside things, changing them towards the inside.。
So if we can get you to speak differently, look differently,。
if we can get you to have a different name, then everything's going to change.。
We're going to outside-control what's inside.。
This is the exact opposite of what the kingdom of God is all about.。
See, the world approaches from an outside-in idea if it wants to transform.。
But the kingdom of God approaches it from the inside out.。
The beauty of the gospel is not that we're forced to think and act a certain way.。
The beauty of the gospel is that in relationship with Jesus,。
this spirit, the same spirit that raised Jesus from the dead,。
now comes and lives inside of me.。
And you know what? My language will change.。
You know what? My clothes will probably change.。
You know what? My behavior is probably going to change.。
But it's not some external change on me.。
It's some internal change within my thoughts, my thinking, my belief set, my heart.。
And as I change within, I begin to look and act differently outside。
where the world will get you to conform from the outside-in.。
Jesus will transform from the inside out.。
And it's really interesting what happens next.。
Because as this work is at work, as the Babylonian Empire is trying to change Daniel and his friends completely,。
I want you to notice what happens in verse 8.。
It says, "Daniel resolved not to defile himself with the royal food and wine,。
and he asked the chief officials for permission not to defile himself in this way."。
This is the first moment in the book of Daniel,。
and we're going to see a number of them over the next six weeks,。
where Daniel decides to take a stand,。
decides to not allow the dominant culture to begin to tell him what he should be doing, thinking, or his identity.。
But here's the fascinating thing.。
It's happening over food.。
Literally, the Hebrew here says that he decides not to defile himself.。
The language there meant that the food from the king's table,。
which was the best food available in the whole empire,。
was food that had probably been prepared or sacrificed to pagan worship or idols.。
And Daniel, knowing that that was the case, is saying, "Hang on a sec.。
If I take that food, I will defile myself."。
Notice, if I eat that food, nothing externally is going to change in my life.。
But if I take that food, here's what's going to change.。
I'm going to defile something within me.。
Now, it's really fascinating here.。
Follow this, guys, because this is really interesting.。
There's been a massive change for Daniel and his friends.。
All the spiritual stuff, the icons have been taken and hidden.。
Their language has been taken away from them and changed.。
Their names have been taken away from them and changed.。
And the Bible doesn't say that Daniel stood up against any of that.。
That's fascinating.。
If that was me, I would have wanted to fight back earlier.。
Why is it now, when the food from the table is coming to Daniel,。
that Daniel is beginning to say, "Hang on a sec. This is a step too far."。
He's already allowed himself to have his language changed,。
his clothing had changed, his name had changed, but this was too much.。
Here's why.。
Because here's what Daniel is basically saying to the empire around him.。
He's saying, "Man, you can change my clothes.。
You can even change my name.。
You can even try and eradicate my language.。
But here's the one thing you cannot touch, and that's my heart.。
That's the values that are inside of me.。
That's the things that I believe.。
Those are the things that I hold dearly.。
You can try to make me look non-Jewish as much as you want,。
but guess what?。
The thing that makes me Jewish is not just the clothes I wear,。
not just the language I speak, not just the name I hold.。
What really makes me Jewish is the values I hold in my spirit and my heart.。
And those things are the things that separate me from the...。
You're trying to make me just like every Babylonian,。
but you can never have my heart."。
He knew eating that food would defile him on the inside,。
whereas everything else that's happened to him has impacted him on the outside.。
And that's a line in the sand for Daniel,。
and we learn a really important lesson in this.。
That that should be the line in the sand for all of us.。
Because look, every single one of us, whether it's our families or our businesses,。
we're going to have to adapt to the culture around us to some degree.。
I mean, you can't just be in a bubble.。
I don't think Jesus wants you to be completely isolated and insulated and in a bubble.。
So you are going to take on some of that culture around you,。
and not everything in the culture around you is bad.。
But where is the line, we should ask ourselves?。
And the line comes when we recognize that actually if the thing inside of me changes,。
if the things that I hold dear to my values, if those things change,。
then I've crossed the line.。
This is really important because here's Daniel wrestling with something。
and finally drawing the line in the sand and saying,。
"No, I'm not going to go any further forward than this."。
Notice how he says it. He says it in this beautiful word.。
He says, "Daniel resolved not to defile himself."。
The Hebrew word for "resolved" here literally means "set your heart aside."。
Daniel had set his heart aside not to allow the defiling of what's inside of him to happen.。
Now what's really important here is that this Hebrew word for "resolved,"。
that word doesn't mean in the moment.。
The way the word is written in the Hebrew means, "This has happened in the past."。
Church, this is really important.。
Because I think so many of us, we get this around the wrong way.。
See, Daniel had resolved, we don't know when because the Bible doesn't tell us,。
but he had resolved at some point in the past,。
long before perhaps he'd gone into exile in Babylon,。
long before he was asked to eat the food from the table.。
Daniel had already resolved in his heart that there are some non-negotiables。
about the values of the kingdom of God.。
And the fact that he had resolved in his heart early on。
that there are these values that are non-negotiable,。
when the moment came, he was able to stand strong.。
We get this wrong.。
Because we think that we'll be able to stand strong when the moment comes。
without having done any resolution of our hearts.。
We think, "Oh, I'm just going to ask my friends to pray for me.。
I'm just going to stand strong."。
But the reality is for many of us, when that pressure comes,。
we start saying, "Yes, I play the violin."。
And we like to think that we're going to be strong enough,。
but if you're anything like me, we're actually pretty weak.。
Daniel knew that when the pressure came,。
if he hadn't previously resolved his heart, he would likely give in.。
So there's some point in his past where he said,。
"These are the things that are really important to me."。
Daniel was able not to defile himself in the king's court,。
literally because he had resolved in his heart。
the values of God's kingdom that were non-negotiable to him.。
Have you done that?。
Because if you're thinking about living in a way that is different。
from the ways that church history has done it in the past,。
a better way, the only way you're going to be able to stand。
for the values within is if you have resolved already。
to make that the case.。
As we start this series, for some of you in this room,。
that's super important.。
It's to take some time, even this week, to say,。
"Lord, I want to resolve in my heart some things。
that I never want to compromise。
because I realize that if I compromise these things,。
my identity as a Christian is going to be questioned."。
And that's the line for Daniel.。
And that needs to be the line for us.。
Is this helping anyone?。
Let me show you the final thing that takes place here.。
I think this is super important.。
Daniel resolved not to defile himself with the royal food and wine.。
He asked the chief officials for permission not to defile himself this way.。
Now God, verse 9, had caused the official to show favor and sympathy to Daniel.。
But the official told Daniel, "I am afraid of my lord and king。
who has assigned your food and drink.。
Why should he see you looking worse than the other young men your age?。
The king would then have my head because of you."。
Daniel then said to the guard whom the chief official had appointed over Daniel,。
Hananiah, Mishael, and Nazariah, "Please test your servants for 10 days.。
Give us nothing but vegetables to eat and water to drink.。
Then compare our appearance to that of the young men who eat the royal food.。
Treat your servants in accordance with what you see."。
So he agreed to do this, and he tested them for 10 days.。
I want you to see something really profound here.。
Daniel's finally decided--language, clothes, name, okay--。
but he's finally drawn the line in the sand with his food,。
saying, "I'm not going to have my heart defiled.。
I've resolved before that this is where the line is."。
But notice how he reacts and responds.。
He's taken a very strong stand for the things that he's believed in,。
but he's actually done it in a very respectful way.。
We don't often see this as Christians.。
But he actually goes to the chief official and politely asks him,。
honoring him for the role and authority he had,。
politely asking him if he can do this.。
Now, the Lord had worked in favor in this situation,。
but the chief official still said no.。
He then goes to the guard around him and, through super-wise approach, said,。
"Hey, look, I'm not trying to get you in trouble.。
I'm not asking you to do anything that's wrong or bad or against your orders.。
All I'm saying is just give us vegetable and water,。
and then compare us in 10 days' time.。
And guess what?。
If in 10 days' time we look worse and we're weaker than everybody else,。
well, then punish us.。
But why don't we just give this a go?"。
I love what Daniel does here.。
It's very, very powerful.。
He stands for the values, and he doesn't compromise those values,。
but he ensures that he respects the people of the culture as he's doing it.。
Which I don't know about you, but this is a culture。
who's just killed 80% of the people within that culture,。
who's taken away their language, taken away their names,。
who's put them in a really bad situation.。
If it was me, I would hate them.。
I would feel very differently to how Daniel's feeling in this moment.。
But Daniel recognizes something that's really important。
for every Christian to understand if we want to be people of Christ。
within a dominant culture.。
Here it is, that the issue is not the people of that culture,。
but the values of that culture.。
In fact, the people of that culture are men and women,。
human beings made in the image of God,。
who through wrong values and lifestyle and choices and sin。
have actually become, perhaps as Daniel would say, defiled themselves.。
But the people I love, the values I have a problem with.。
And so how do I stand for the values of the kingdom in my heart,。
but respect a people that God still loves?。
I think the church around the world could really learn this lesson right now.。
It's a really bad evangelism strategy to hate the people you're trying to save.。
And here's this moment where Daniel's like,。
"I want to do this respectfully. I want to do this politely.。
I'm not going to compromise.。
And if there's ever a situation where it's values over whatever it is,。
my values are going to come first.。
But I'm going to do that in love.。
I'm going to do that in hope,。
because I believe that actually these values are not just for my transformation,。
they're for your transformation too.。
I believe the things that I'm holding in my heart are not just good for me,。
but they're good for every human being.。
And my love for you means that I'm not going to compromise。
because I'm going to show you, imagine the guard after these 10 days,。
I'm going to show you a different way to live."。
See, true faithfulness comes when we hold together both our convictions,。
unwavering convictions, but also this amazing thoughtful compassion。
to the people in the culture around us.。
That's a different way.。
That's not escaping, insulating, controlling, or conforming.。
That's beginning to show a different way.。
And the final thing Daniel does in the midst of this。
is he really has trust that God is going to come through him.。
Imagine, he's like, "10 days, test this in 10 days."。
He's doing that because he trusts that in 10 days,。
he is going to look as good, if not better, than anybody else.。
Why? Because he has great trust in this.。
See, Daniel trusts that he can be strong and stand for God,。
then God is going to be strong and will stand for him.。
Daniel knows and trusts that if he honors Jesus, honors God,。
God is going to honor him.。
And that's a really important thing for us to understand。
because it's one thing for us to say, "I'm going to hold to my values.。
I'm going to do it in a loving and respectful way to the culture around me,。
but I'm not going to compromise. I'm going to do it in love."。
It's another thing to go, but in doing that, in drawing the line,。
in holding those values, I'm believing that God is going to come through.。
I'm believing that he will move.。
I'm believing that there's going to be some transformation。
in just my life with the people around me.。
I'm not just doing this for my benefit. I'm also doing it for theirs.。
That's a different way.。
Most of these models is how do we get out of this horrible world that we are in?。
That's a model that is yeast in dough,。
wanting to transform the culture around us。
from a place of unwavering conviction, but thoughtful compassion,。
trusting that God is at work.。
So, how should Christians act and respond。
when our faith is in conflict with the world around us?。
Well, here's the four things that we have received today in this lesson.。
First of all, we are to resist the idea, the temptation to escape,。
insulate, control, or conform.。
We all have a tendency towards these models.。
We need to recognize that in our lives, call it out,。
and ask the Lord to strengthen us.。
We need to resist that.。
Second of all, we need to resolve in our hearts。
the values that we will not compromise。
and resolve them long before the situation is.。
We resolve today so that we can act tomorrow.。
Number three, we then act in those values,。
both with unwavering conviction, but also thoughtful compassion.。
And then fourth and finally, we have and stand strong,。
knowing that if we honor Jesus, Jesus will honor us.。
So, chapter one of Daniel begins to point us to a better way.。
I think it's a way that the world desperately needs right now.。
And over these six weeks, we're going to unpack this more.。
We're going to show you more of the ways。
that Daniel begins to live out this different model。
to bring transformation to the culture。
that he found himself embedded in.。
So, whether it's your family, whether it's your workplace,。
your dating relationship, your sphere of influence,。
wherever it is where you know that that environment right now。
is trying to conform you more than you are transforming it,。
this series is for you.。
I know it's also for me.。
Can I pray for us?。
Let's pray.。
Father, we are so grateful for each person who is here today,。
grateful for this moment that we get to gather together,。
open and eager to be those transforming agents。
in the world that you've placed us in.。
Thank you that you have not called us to escape,。
to insulate, to try to control with worldly power our faith,。
or to conform to what it is that you've placed us around.。
But you've called us as Paul would write,。
to be transformed by the renewing of our minds.。
Lord, I want to pray over the next six weeks。
that you would do that exactly here.。
I pray that you would renew minds in this room.。
I pray that you would help us to begin to see the world differently,。
that we would recognize that we are to hold strong convictions.。
Lord, I want to pray for anyone here this morning。
where they know that they need to resolve in their hearts.。
If you're anything like me,。
maybe it's been a while since you've thought that.。
But maybe that's the one thing。
that the Lord is really impressing on you today.。
Where do you need to resolve in your heart。
not to compromise certain values?。
If you're in a dating relationship,。
there might be some important values。
that you are not sure how to communicate with your partner。
because maybe they hold different values in that space.。
Are you willing to resolve in your heart?。
Long before you're put in a situation。
where you might be forced or tempted to compromise those values.。
Or whether that's in your family place, in your workplace.。
Lord, would you help us to resolve our hearts, Lord?。
Maybe you can just take a moment just to do that。
in the quietness of your heart.。
Maybe you already know exactly the situation。
where you sense compromise.。
Maybe it's just coming before Jesus here this morning and saying,。
"Lord, would you strengthen my hands and would you resolve my heart?。
I want to set my heart aside for these values。
that I know are kingdom values.。
Lord, would you help me to make these the non-negotiables?。
And forgive me, Lord."。
You know, some of you in this room, you need to hear this.。
That the Lord is so forgiving, so graceful.。
And perhaps for some of you here, you know you've been compromising lately.。
You know that you've been giving in to worldly values over Christian ones.。
There's no condemnation in Christ Jesus.。
And so, Lord, I want to lift any guilt that the enemy has placed。
over people in this room where perhaps they've recognized。
that they've given in a bit too much lately.。
Lord, I want to lift that guilt in the name of Jesus.。
Lord, we want to pray instead your grace and your mercy。
to forgive and to restore.。
And Lord, for those in this room where that's important,。
that restoration now becomes a place for them to take a stand and say,。
"Okay, Lord, thank you for forgiving me.。
Thank you for washing me clean as we sung earlier,。
that precious blood that flows.。
But Lord, now help me to resolve my heart, set aside my heart today。
for whatever temptations may come tomorrow."。
Lord, I pray for that anointing over these people right now。
in the name of Jesus, that you would seal in their hearts。
the values of the kingdom of God.。
And Lord, I pray that you would help us to be different。
from what perhaps we're seeing in the global church right now。
in certain areas of it.。
Help us to be loving and compassionate and thoughtful.。
Lord, forgive us that where in the past maybe we've taken a stand。
for your values but done it in a way of judgment,。
done it in a way of hate, done it in a way of division.。
Lord, forgive us that's not your kingdom.。
You're not trying to build a top-down kingdom。
but a bottom-up kingdom.。
Lord, would you help us to live and be uncompromising。
in our convictions but Holy Spirit done in a way that loves our enemies,。
that extends the kingdom of God as hope to those that need it the most.。
Lord, I thank you that you've planted the people in this room。
in a specific sphere of influence where their belief in Jesus。
is not the dominant culture.。
I thank you for that, Lord.。
I thank you because you are using them and will use them。
to be a transformative agent in the place that you've placed them in.。
Lord, I pray that you would fan into flame your Spirit in their lives,。
that many would come to see and know your goodness and your hope.。
Father, we pray all of this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says.。
Can we stand together and we're going to just spend some time worshipping.。
[MUSIC]。
