I can actually smell the pine from here, it's kind of cool.。
I feel like I'm home for Christmas.。
Well, when I was a young child,。
I visited New York City with my family.。
And on this trip to New York City, my mom,。
she's the travel expert of our family.。
She does an amazing job. She reads like the travel guides,。
gets prepared, it was a time before the internet.。
So reading the travel guides and coming up with this incredible plan.。
So every day we had an amazing program as a family.。
Now one day there was lunch,。
and we're already a little bit hungry,。
and my mom says, "Hey, this guide there,。
that recommends this place, let's go there."。
And so she insisted that we go there,。
even though there was all these amazing restaurants around us.。
So we start walking, and we walk,。
and we walk past one nice-looking restaurant。
where the food looks good after the other,。
and I'm getting more hungry, and I remember as a kid,。
I'm like, "Why are we not stopping just eating here?。
This looks good. This looks great. I want to eat here."。
But we kept walking because she was determined.。
"We're going to follow what this guide says,。
you know, we're going to eat there.。
It's highly recommended.。
Yeah, so we need to go and eat what is highly recommended."。
So we finally get there,。
and the place does look very unimpressive.。
It's like, wow, maybe it's a hole in the wall place.。
That's amazing, right?。
So at this point in time, we're just going to get food,。
we order, receive our meals,。
and the food is absolutely incredible.。
No, it was disastrous.。
It was the worst meal of the whole trip.。
It was horrible.。
Yeah, it was such a letdown, such a disappointment.。
Highly recommended, right?。
And we were actually joking with my mom。
because she was so insistent,。
and we walked past all these other places.。
We were kind of teasing her about what a bust,。
what a disappointment.。
Now, why am I telling you a story about a guide book,。
you know, that leads us to a restaurant。
that turns out in an unfortunate eating event?。
And there's a reason for this,。
because who guides us in our lives matters.。
Who guides us in our lives matters.。
Now, for a meal, that was no big deal, right?。
You can have a bad meal,。
unless it can be very bad, right?。
But you just move on.。
It's okay. We left. We were fine.。
But what about the bigger things in life?。
What about the bigger things?。
So, what I want to explore with you today is a question.。
Who or what guides your life?。
Like, who actually gives you direction right now?。
Is it a social media influencer?。
Is it your algorithm。
that shapes and guides what you do,。
what you think is good, what you think you should do,。
how you think your life should be?。
Is it culture that keeps shifting,。
where you just orient yourself,。
whatever everybody else is doing,。
that's what we're going to do?。
Or do you determine, are you the master of your own fate?。
Are you the one in charge of everything?。
Who or what guides your life?。
And how is that going, by the way?。
How is that working out for you?。
So, we're in our sermon series,。
our Advent Christmas sermon series, "I Am."。
And I want to set a little bit the background for this series.。
In the Gospel of John,。
instead of having a birth narrative,。
like the Gospel of Luke and the Gospel of Matthew,。
John gives us a theological account of Jesus' coming,。
the Word made flesh, God incarnate.。
And I want to read to you from John 1, verse 14, it says this,。
"The Word became flesh and made His dwelling among us.。
We have seen His glory,。
the glory of the one and only Son。
who came from the Father full of grace and truth."。
Now, each week in the series,。
we're unpacking what is the significance。
of the Word being made flesh.。
What's the significance of Jesus coming to us?。
What is the significance of the incarnation?。
And so we want to explore that this Christmas season.。
And we're going to do it through the famous "I Am" statements。
in the Gospel of John.。
Last week, we had, "I am the light of the world."。
These are declarations from Jesus.。
He's declaring who He is.。
He's declaring why He came.。
He's declaring why we celebrate Christmas.。
And today, we're going to look at, "I am the good shepherd."。
There's actually seven of those statements throughout the season.。
We're going to look at five.。
And each of them point to the purpose of Jesus coming,。
and they just shed light on why we actually celebrate Christmas.。
So I hope that excites you, it excites me.。
And so I want to go with you to our passage today.。
Before I do that, I just want to set a little context.。
We're in the Gospel of John, we're in chapter 10.。
And Jesus has been criticizing the religious leaders。
because the leaders have not cared for their people.。
They have not done the job that God hasn't trusted them with.。
And because He hasn't done that job,。
Jesus actually calls them thieves and robbers.。
I mean, if somebody calls you a thief and robber,。
that's quite a strong language, right?。
Yikes.。
But that's what He has said, they're thieves and robbers.。
And that's in this context of bad leadership, bad shepherding,。
that Jesus declares that He is the good shepherd.。
So I want us to know that there's this contrast.。
He's just been criticizing bad leadership.。
So that's where I want to pick up.。
John chapter 10, verse 11, and it says this.。
"I am the good shepherd.。
The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.。
The hired hand is not the shepherd and does not own the sheep.。
So when he sees the wolf coming, he abandons the sheep and runs away.。
Then the wolf attacks the flock and scatters it.。
The man runs away because he's a hired hand。
and cares nothing for the sheep.。
I am the good shepherd.。
I know my sheep and my sheep know me.。
Just as the Father knows me and I know the Father。
and I lay down my life for the sheep,。
I have other sheep that are not of this sheepfold.。
I must bring them also.。
They too will listen to my voice。
and there shall be one flock and one shepherd.。
The reason my Father loves me is that I lay down my life。
only to take it up again.。
No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord.。
I have authority to lay it down and authority to take it up again.。
This command I received from my Father."。
Now, I want to unpack this passage with you through two questions.。
So the first one is, what kind of shepherd is Jesus?。
Like, he says he's good, but what does it mean that he's good?。
So that's the first thing.。
And then the second thing that I want to look at with you is,。
how can we respond to this good shepherd?。
Like, is there something we're supposed to do?。
And then of course, ultimately, is there something that we want to do。
in light of who this good shepherd is?。
So let's start with what kind of shepherd is Jesus?。
He says in verse 11, "I am the good shepherd."。
And to truly grasp his goodness,。
we actually have to understand the bad shepherds,。
the false shepherds, the thieves, the robbers,。
and what's been happening there.。
Now, in the ancient Near East, leaders were called shepherds.。
So not just in Israel, all over the place.。
And so civil leaders, kings, religious authorities,。
and God in the Old Testament,。
he actually criticizes whenever his leaders fail to do the job。
that he has entrusted to them.。
When they fail to reflect his heart,。
he calls them out through the prophets.。
For example, the prophet Ezekiel.。
Because they're supposed to care for the sheep,。
but he's confronting them because they're just caring about their own interest.。
So you can read it in Ezekiel 34, the whole chapter.。
It's incredible, and it's a background to our passage that we're looking at.。
But then Jesus, with his contemporaries,。
he's also called them out for being bad and false shepherds,。
the religious leaders.。
And they have just, before our past is shown their true colors,。
they have shown who they truly are.。
In John 9, on the Sabbath,。
Jesus heals a blind man that was born blind.。
Incredible, a miracle.。
But it's on the Sabbath where you're not supposed to work.。
The religious leaders are like asking this guy to give a testimony.。
What happened? He tells them, but they don't believe him.。
So they ask his parents,。
you know, if their son was really blind, yes.。
And then, again, they want more information,。
but the parents are already wisely wiggling their way through the answers。
because they're fishing for something.。
And then they ask the blind man again what happened,。
and they basically want the blind man to say that Jesus is a sinner。
because he healed him on the Sabbath.。
The blind man doesn't do that.。
He says, "All I know is I was blind, but now I see."。
And because of that, they kick him out of their community.。
But just pause and think about what kind of leaders those are.。
They could care less about this person.。
They could care less about somebody who was suffering,。
who was not able to see.。
They didn't care.。
They cared just about their own power and their own interest.。
And Jesus was challenging that through his ministry, through his work,。
because he was doing what shepherds were meant to do,。
what they were not doing.。
It was exposing them.。
And so it's this context where Jesus says, "I am the good shepherd."。
Now, sadly, many of us, we, ourselves, have experienced bad shepherding,。
and to different degrees.。
Maybe it's been a pastor in a church that turned out to be a crook.。
Maybe it's been at a religious institution, a school, or a hospital,。
or whatever else.。
I don't know.。
I know when I was young, for a while, I went to a Christian school,。
and I had a teacher who bullied me.。
I'm a kid, and a teacher bullies me.。
And I wasn't sure, is it my fault?。
Is there something wrong with me?。
So there are bad shepherds.。
They don't do what they're supposed to do.。
And if that's been your experience, I just want to say,。
I'm so thankful that you're here.。
I hope that we can be a safe place for you to encounter Jesus,。
to pursue Jesus, to heal.。
That's my heart for us.。
But when Jesus says, "I'm the good shepherd," it's not just about,。
"I'm not a bad shepherd," but he's also making a declaration。
about his identity, about who he is.。
And there's an Old Testament context to this, because there's expectations.。
Israel was longing, waiting, yearning for the shepherd to come,。
the finally truly shepherded people.。
I want to take you to Ezekiel 34, where in verse 15, it talks about this,。
or where actually God talks about what he's going to do。
in response to bad shepherds.。
He says this, "I myself would tend my sheep and make them lie down,"。
declares the sovereign Lord.。
"I would search for the lost, bring back the strays.。
I will bind up the injured and strengthen the weak.。
But the sleek and the strong I will destroy.。
I will shepherd the flock with justice."。
So when Jesus calls himself the good shepherd, he's saying,。
"I am the long-awaited Messiah.。
I am the good shepherd who will finally bring back the lost sheep,。
the harassed sheep, the herding sheep, and I will restore them back。
to the flock, and I will bring wholeness where there is brokenness.。
And there is no circumstance for this shepherd that he does not know。
how to lead through, how to guide, or how to provide.。
He is the good shepherd."。
But how can we truly be confident that he's the good shepherd?。
Now, somebody can say they're the good shepherd.。
How do you know that?。
Well, that's what we find out in verse 11 with the second part.。
He says, "I am the good shepherd.。
The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep."。
So he's talking about, "I laid down my life on a cross for you,。
on behalf of you, instead of you."。
He took the penalty that we deserve for our sin upon himself so that we can。
be forgiven, that we can be made whole, that we can be restored。
into this shepherding relationship with the heavenly Father.。
He laid down his life for you and me.。
Now, that's putting your money where your mouth is at,。
to use an American expression.。
It means you put something into action.。
You don't just talk, you actually do something.。
Excuse me.。
You know, when somebody doesn't withhold any love and care from you and gives。
everything they have, laying down his life, dying for you,。
you know, the good shepherd is for you.。
He loves you.。
He's not against you.。
He doesn't withhold anything.。
He gives everything.。
He loves you perfectly.。
Now, no human leader can love everyone perfectly.。
Only Jesus can.。
Only the good shepherd can.。
Human leaders, you know, ate us horrible once, and then we're all still broken。
people to one degree or another.。
But Jesus is the perfect good shepherd.。
He loves you.。
Jesus proves he's the good shepherd by putting us first.。
He laid down his life on the cross without hesitation for our benefit.。
Now, we often struggle to believe that.。
Actually, that's a lot of the Christian journey.。
We struggle to believe that God is really good, that he really loves us,。
that he really cares about us.。
And maybe some of us are struggling with that right now.。
And I just want to share a story from an author that I'm going to retell that kind。
of speaks to that.。
So, Philip Yancey, he, I should say now, he probably was a well-known author.。
And he wrote a book quite a while ago.。
It's called "The Jesus I Never Knew."。
And so, in this book, he tells a story from a Harvard professor or actually the。
Harvard chaplain.。
And a student came into this chaplain's office, sits down, she sits down,。
she's like, "I don't believe in God."。
He's like, "Welcome."。
And in his wise way as a chaplain, he asked, "Well, tell me about the God that。
you don't believe in.。
Just tell me about him."。
And so, she tells him why she doesn't believe in God and what upsets her and。
what angers her about God.。
And she just pours all that out and he listens.。
And then he says, "You know, I don't believe in that God either.。
But let me show you the God that I believe in."。
So he pulls out the Bible and he opens up to the Gospels and he start looking。
at Jesus because Jesus is God with us.。
You know, our understandings of God, they're often off.。
You know, whether we pick them up from our parents or from random stuff,。
life experiences.。
But when we look at Jesus, we see God in flesh.。
We see who Jesus truly is.。
We see how Jesus relates to us, how he feels about us, how he thinks about us,。
how we can stand in relationship with him.。
And the most clearly where we see how Jesus feels about us is on the cross.。
The most powerful revelation of his love for you, for me, for all of humanity.。
Jesus loves us so much.。
He loves you so much.。
He loves the people around you so much that he laid down his life on the cross.。
So if you ever wonder about how God feels about you, you look at the cross,。
that's how he feels about you.。
And so when we struggle with God's goodness, you know, one thing we can do is。
we can look at Jesus.。
So maybe if you're struggling, maybe that's something for you to do.。
Just open, you know, we have our own thoughts, but maybe we need to hold them。
up against God's word, against how Jesus has revealed himself, who he is.。
Not who we say he is, but who he truly is.。
So maybe that's what you need to do and spend some time with.。
But Jesus not only is he the good shepherd who lays down his life for us,。
but he's also the shepherd who knows his sheep.。
And in John 14, it says this, "I know my sheep and my sheep know me."。
Now the verb ginosko in Greek, not Greece, it's also in Greece, but ginosko,。
it's an experiential knowledge.。
It's not just a, "I know your name, I know facts about you."。
It's like, "I know you through relation."。
It's a relational knowledge.。
"I know you relationally.。
I know my sheep and my sheep know me."。
So Jesus is a good shepherd whom you can truly know relationally.。
And what's incredible is that Jesus, he knows everything about you and me.。
He knows our past histories, the good stuff, the bad stuff.。
He knows last week.。
He knows our thoughts.。
He knows everything.。
But he loves you.。
He loves you.。
In Romans 5, 8, the Apostle Paul, he says this, "But God demonstrated his own love for。
us in this.。
While we were sinners, Christ died for us."。
So it doesn't say that he died for us only once we had our act together, only once we。
lived perfect lives.。
It says that he died for you and me when we were sinners.。
That means he loved us when we were broken, messed up people, doing messed up things.。
He loves you.。
His love doesn't fluctuate based on how you behave.。
He loves you.。
It's hard, right?。
It's hard for us to comprehend that type of love.。
Jesus looks at you with delight and not disgust.。
You are his absolute treasure.。
You are his absolute treasure.。
Now a lot of times we feel like that somehow we're disgusting to God.。
But again, if we look at Jesus, we see that's not true.。
You're not disgusting to God.。
He loves you.。
He delights in you.。
You are his treasure.。
You are the reason why he came for Christmas.。
Why we celebrate Christmas.。
You're the reason why he was incarnated, why he was born, why he humbled himself, even。
though he's God, to come to us, to show us his love.。
He loves you.。
You are worth it.。
You are so worth it.。
You know, for me, I was thinking of when Chris and I, my wife, when we started first dating,。
I was like, "I have baggage.。
I have issues.。
I just want her to know."。
You know, because I don't want stuff to come up later.。
And she's like, "Oh, no, thanks."。
It's like, "This is who I am.。
Here's all my stuff, my anxieties, my issues."。
And you know, it's incredible when somebody loves you.。
They just love you.。
And in a similar way, and how much more, you know, God loves us.。
He knows all your baggage.。
He knows all your junk.。
He knows all your past histories.。
But he loves you.。
He deeply loves you.。
And we can know his love.。
You know, there's peace, there's security when you're loved.。
There's healing when you're loved.。
You know how loving it is to be just—how healing it is to just be loved.。
So powerful.。
Let me give you a last one for why Jesus is a good shepherd, even though I think we already。
covered some good ground here, right?。
Jesus is a good shepherd because he has authority and power that is unmatched.。
Verse 17 and 18 says this, "I lay down my life only to take it up again.。
No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord.。
I have authority to lay it down and authority to take it up again."。
So it's important to see here, Jesus wasn't an accident.。
He died and it was just bad circumstances.。
No, he was in control.。
He died because he wanted to die for us.。
This was not some historical accident.。
You know, he did it out of an act of free will.。
We earlier, Pastor Chapman, talked about self-giving love because he just, again, he just loves。
you.。
But then the amazing thing is he has authority to also take back up his life.。
So we not only celebrate Jesus' death, we also celebrate that Jesus rose, that he overcame。
death, that he is mightier, that he's stronger, that he's more powerful than even death because。
his authority is unmatched.。
He is all powerful.。
You know, that's also amazing when you're looking for a good shepherd, when somebody。
has unmatched authority and power who is leading and guiding you, but who is truly good and。
only has good purposes for you.。
So somebody who actually uses the power in the right way.。
That's amazing.。
He has the power to care for us, the power to forgive sins, the power to give abundant。
life, the power to feed enemies, the power to overcome death, and the power to provide。
for every need that we may face in our life.。
Every season.。
Jesus' authority and power is unmatched.。
He is truly the good shepherd.。
But now, how can we respond to this?。
How are we being invited by the Holy Spirit to respond as we just slowed down and looked。
at the good shepherd?。
Our passage shows us two ways that we can respond.。
And actually what's interesting, it's really about the faithfulness of the shepherd in。
this passage.。
That's really the focus.。
But there's two ways of responding that are implied in that.。
The first one is it invites us to surrender to his leadership.。
Because being a sheep means that Jesus is the leader of your life.。
It means that we don't sit in the driver's seat, so instead of us saying, "I am the maker。
of my own fate.。
I know what's best for me.。
I'm going to do whatever I feel like and want to do."。
It means we surrender to the leadership of Jesus.。
That we say, "I trust you.。
I trust your leadership.。
I trust that what you ask me to do is better than what I know.。
And I'm going to do it."。
So being surrendered to the leadership of Jesus means that we do what Jesus asks us。
to do.。
But it all starts ultimately, it begins with becoming a Christian.。
That we say, "Jesus, I need you in my life.。
I've been doing things my own way.。
It's not working or it's not working well.。
And I just know I need you.。
So I want to ask you that you come into my life, that you become the leader of my life."。
Then when we do that, God's word says that we are filled with the Holy Spirit.。
We are born again.。
We receive a new life, abundant life, the life of God's goodness.。
But then even as a sheep, even as Christians, we still are wayward.。
We still go off and do our own things and go back into, "I know better."。
And so there's this call to surrender to his leadership.。
Psalm 38 says, "Taste and see that the Lord is good."。
When we surrender to his leadership, we get to taste and see that his leadership is good.。
Because when we do that, when we do what he says, we actually give God space to work in。
our lives and pour out his goodness over our lives.。
I preached a couple of weeks ago where I said when we step out in faith, when we do what。
he says, God shows up.。
But the only way you're going to figure out that God shows up is when we actually listen。
to him.。
When we live surrendered lives to him.。
And it's amazing how he shows up, even when we struggle to picture that he can.。
But he does time and time again.。
That's a testimony of people here in the church.。
That's my testimony.。
The second way that we're invited to respond is to enjoy the care of the Good Shepherd.。
To be a sheep.。
Now a lot of times we talk about all these things we're supposed to do, but I think the。
Good Shepherd is inviting us just to enjoy his care, just to dwell in his goodness, to。
be under his leadership and care, to enjoy his love, to be blessed by his guidance.。
So we get to just be.。
When we're constantly running around somewhere needing to perform and create something, make。
something happen, well when you are under the care of the Good Shepherd you just get。
to be.。
You just get to rest.。
You don't have to know everything.。
You don't have to have the 20 year plan for your life.。
You just entrust yourself to the Shepherd and he will accomplish his purposes that he。
has for you in your life.。
His goodness and mercy will follow you all the days of your life.。
So I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
Don't just celebrate Christmas this year and let it just rush towards you and you just。
do your thing, you just go through the motions.。
Actually respond to the Good Shepherd.。
Put yourself under his love and his care.。
Surrender to his leadership.。
Release the security and the peace that is only found under the care of the Good Shepherd.。
You know scripture talks about there is peace with God, that's when we're restored in our。
relationship with the Good Shepherd because our relationship with God is broken when we。
become Christians, that relationship is restored.。
And then there is also the peace of God, where God just gives us peace regardless of what。
circumstances are going on in our lives.。
He just wants to pour this peace over us.。
He just wants you to know his goodness.。
I don't know what circumstance you're in, what challenges you're facing, but he's just。
saying I'm here, I want to be your Good Shepherd.。
So are we going to surrender ourselves to him?。
Are we going to dwell in his goodness?。
Are we just going to be sheep?。
I want to invite you to respond in a couple of ways.。
So you heard the two ways that I've talked about how I believe the Good Shepherd is inviting。
us to respond.。
One is to surrender to his leadership, the other one is to enjoy the care of the Good。
Shepherd, just enjoy it.。
So however the Holy Spirit's been moving and touching your heart, I just want to encourage。
you to just talk to God about that.。
And then in a minute or so, I'm going to read some scripture over us and then pray over。
us.。
So let's do this right now.。
I want to invite everyone to stand.。
And as a, just a sign to open us to God, for whoever wants to, I want to invite you to。
stretch out your hands and say, "Lord, I just want to receive."。
Jesus says, "I am the Good Shepherd.。
The Good Shepherd lays down his life for the sheep."。
And he's calling you to come to him right now, under his leadership, under his care,。
to receive peace, to experience his goodness, to find rest.。
Psalm 23 says this, "The Lord is my shepherd.。
I lack nothing.。
He makes me lie down in green pastures.。
He leads me beside quiet waters.。
He refreshes my soul.。
He guides me along the right path for his name's sake.。
Even though I walk through the darkest valley, I will not fear evil, for you are with me.。
Your rod and your staff, they comfort me.。
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.。
You anoint my head with oil.。
My cup overflows.。
Surely your goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell。
in the house of the Lord forever."。
Jesus, I thank you that you are the Good Shepherd, that you are the one who brings us peace.。
That you are the one who truly loves us, the one who is truly able to lead us, to bring。
about your good purposes, the one who has 100% pure good purposes for us in our lives.。
Lord, you know where everyone's at.。
You know how everyone's life is going, the challenges we're facing.。
And when we just come to you and we say, "Jesus, just be our shepherd, be our Good Shepherd,。
we need you.。
We need you right now.。
We surrender to your leadership.。
Will you just guide us?。
Will you give us rest?。
Will you give us peace?。
Will you let us know that we're loved, that we're okay?。
Will you bind our wounds?。
Will you heal us?。
Jesus, be our Good Shepherd.。
We love you, and I pray all that in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Let's worship church.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
