What day is it? Goodness gracious.。
All right. Hope everybody had a good lunch.。
Well, not too good, hopefully, and then you fall asleep and all that kind of stuff, you know.。
But as you know, we've been walking through our sermon series in this season.。
We've been calling Public Faith.。
And in this Public Faith series, we've been exploring different areas of our lives, right?。
Where we are applying the idea of how do we present our faith more publicly?。
How do we live more genuine lives of faith in the different parts of our everyday life?。
So we've talked about parenting. We talked about ambition.。
We talked about the workplace. And today we're talking about relationships.。
That's the theme for today. Relationships.。
Now, most of us here have probably got some sort of social media platform or following and stuff like that.。
You know, we stroll through Instagram. It's quite common thing to do.。
But can you remember the very first, you know, what was your first interaction with social media like way back in the day?。
I remember back when we still had dial-up Internet.。
You remember dial-up Internet where you log on the modem and go.。
And then it sounds like you're trying to drown a cat when trying to log on to the World Wide Web.。
And then you have to pray really hard that as you online, nobody would call the home phone.。
Because then it would cut off the Internet and you have to start reading all over again.。
And so when I, you know, when I was first discovering the Internet, there was two things that I would often do on the Internet.。
First was visit. There's this very interesting site called LimeWire.。
Right. You guys remember LimeWire. Right. OK. Right.。
If you do, it might not be reflected well on you because LimeWire was where you could get free music.。
OK. We'll just leave it at that. OK. It wasn't really free. Probably the safest way to describe that, though.。
But the next place I would log on to, there was there was a platform there which is probably familiar to you guys.。
Actually, if you heard the sound, you might recognize it straight away.。
If we could play that sound, please recognize what that is. Oh, right.。
There's somebody, you know, right. I see Q. OK. One of the first social media platforms.。
If you're millennial in this place today. Right. You probably will remember that.。
So every time I hear that noise, I'm taken back. Oh, yeah. Thank you.。
Oh, nostalgia. OK. Every time I hear that, I'm taken back to a preteen Ellison.。
OK. I'm sitting in the living room of my house. I was the only place with a computer.。
Right. In the living room. Right. The monitors that as big as a refrigerator.。
Right. This huge box on top of the on top of the desk. And I would log on to I.C.Q.。
It was late at night. Everyone else was asleep. It's just me and the warm, comforting glow of the monitor.。
Right. And I.C.Q. was like the original social media platform.。
Right. An instant messaging place where you could chat with your friends, but also connect with people from all over the world.。
So every night I would go right. Sign into I.C.Q. waiting for my crush to log on at the same time.。
Waiting for her to message me. Right. And so that Oh sound. Right. Would be notification that Louisa.。
Her name was Louisa. Louisa was online. OK. And she sent me a message. Right.。
And so she sent me a message. You know, a little flutter of excitement. We're talking again. Right.。
And that was chatting away. And we would talk for hours on I.C.Q.。
Right. Sharing our deepest, darkest secrets with each other. Right. Declaring our puppy love.。
You know, I think I had pretty good game on I.C.Q. Right. I was funny. I was clever. Right.。
Kind of romantic, a bit cheeky, kind of confident. All the characteristics, like stereotypically makes a girl want to talk to a guy, I guess.。
Right. So it was confusing for me that when I got back to school the next day, every time I go back to school, I would say, hey, how's it going?。
That was fun chatting last night. Right. She would look at me like, what are you talking to me? Right.。
You completely ignore me. Right. Maybe it's because I was like three foot two at the time, even shorter than I was.。
And with this squeaky voice like you go through, we're going through puberty.。
And she was like the popular girl that everybody liked. So, you know, it was always awkward for me.。
But that was when I realized something. I realized that when you're online, right, there's this weird power and a mystery to being behind a screen and a keyboard.。
You see behind the screen and the keyboard, you can be whoever you want to be.。
You can talk to whoever you wanted to say whatever you wanted to say. But that doesn't always translate back into real life.。
And over the years, as the Internet has developed and social media platforms get more sophisticated, the power and the ability to be a totally different person on screen,。
behind the screen and a keyboard is only increased. And in general, I think this has had a negative impact on our humanity and our relationships.。
Now, don't get me wrong. You know, social media is a lot. There's a lot of good stuff that comes out of it.。
It's a fun place to hang out, showcase stuff, you know, different things to discover.。
But there is a danger to it as well. Right. Just look through the comment sections of some of these Instagram posts.。
Right. The most normal Instagram posts can attract all these rude, mean, ugly, racist, nasty, sexist, homophobic, just all around horrible comments attached to a simple picture.。
And people say things they would never say to you if they were face to face. Right. And suddenly you're online. Right. But you have no fear. Right. Because you're online.。
Sociologists call this the online disinhibitation effect. The idea is we feel bolder to say these wild and awful things online because of a few areas, because a few reasons.。
First, there's anonymity. Right. Nobody really knows who you are. You can even create a fake account just to do stuff like this. Right.。
There's an invisibility. They can't really see you and you can't really see the damage that you're causing to someone else as you're dropping these nasty comments.。
Right. There's something also called asynchronicity, which means there's a delayed response.。
So, you know, now, if you know, if you're empty, are you bumped into someone? They bump you back. Right. There's a response straight away.。
But online, you don't get that. Right. There's a delayed response. And then there's also no real sense of authority. Right. Who owns Internet? Right.。
Nobody really. And so when there's no authority, right, people act wild.。
Just watch a bunch of kids in a classroom without any authority or any group of people without any authority.。
Things tend to get out of hand. So that's one way of social media, I feel like, has been negatively impacting our relationships.。
Another way, though, is that most of the time, a lot of the time, maybe online and on social media, we have control over what we want people to see.。
And so our social media pages and our social media spaces often make it seem like everything is perfect.。
Right. Everyone leaves, lives these stress free, you know, luxury holidays, fast cars, nice clothes, beautiful people, fancy restaurants, obedient children.。
Right. And we convey this sort of world that is so distorted from what reality actually is, because the reality is, of course, nobody's immune to stress and to hard times.。
And to brokenness and to struggles. But when all we do is showcase highlights, it puts up a barrier to us in relationships.。
And because of this, it feels feelings of envy and jealousy and even resentment towards each other.。
And so now, right in this day and age, as followers of Jesus, navigating the online world can be challenging.。
It's very easy to get caught up in the negativity, especially when you throw scroll through a few of those comments.。
Right. It's easy to get caught up in the negativity of that space.。
And at the same time, it's easy to give in to the pressure to make our lives look like they're perfect.。
And very soon when we start functioning that way, our online presence bears very little resemblance about our real life following of Jesus.。
And then we struggle. We find out we struggle. We are kind of meet anyone like, you know, it's such a nasty like, why is that happening?。
Now, of course, these issues aren't just limited to online. Right.。
But in our daily in-person face to face relationships, those are struggling as well.。
In the beginning of the series, Andrew talked to us about the fact that we're supposed to be salt and light in this world, if you remember. Right.。
Salt and light are what Jesus's followers, his disciples are called to be.。
We're supposed to be the ones who bring the flavor of Jesus to the broken world.。
We're the ones that are supposed to bring the light of Jesus to shine wherever we see sin and darkness and brokenness.。
But if we want to do that, it's going to take standing out.。
It means fighting for and believing in and speaking up on things that go against popular culture.。
And that is hard. That is hard. So instead, we feel the pressure to blend in.。
We lose our saltiness. We dim our light and we begin to conform to the world.。
And for many people, this might take different, you know, the context is a bit different.。
Maybe you're at school. Right. And the normal thing for people to do at school on the weekends or whenever, right, on holidays is for people to go out, go parties, get drunk and make terrible decisions.。
Right. Doing things that you know are wrong. But you feel like you have to do that because if everyone else is doing it right, you're going to be left out.。
And nobody wants to be like the goody two shoes, like the party pooper. Right.。
And that doesn't get involved in the parties. Right. People would just think, oh, that's a good Christian boy or girl. No fun to hang out with.。
Who wants to hang out with that person? Right. Maybe you're in a romantic relationship and there's the pressure there to be sexually intimate without being married or before getting married.。
Right. Go and do it, of course. Right. Everyone's doing it. You know, it's all over the culture. It's all over the movies. Right.。
What kind of prude, corny, backwards thinking are you stuck in to think that sexual intimacy is only for marriage?。
Or maybe like Pastor Jennifer was saying last week at your workplace and your relationship with your colleagues and your boss, right, dishonest practices are just commonplace.。
People don't value the truth. They don't value honesty. And if you don't follow suit, you're going to be the one that costs the team that bonus check at the end of the month.。
Right. Who's going to want to work with somebody like that? So here's our problem.。
Because, you know, we want relationships. And because we want relationships, we get tempted and sometimes we even do conform.。
We change who we are. We compromise our faith in Jesus. And because we're constantly changing, it becomes even confusing for ourselves.。
Like, who am I really? You don't even know anymore. Right. Often we get we get so lost in the world.。
Which version of me am I supposed to be? The online version? The one at work, the one at church, the one in my family.。
And in trying to fit in, we lose ourselves in the process. And if nobody's being real, how can we possibly have meaningful relationship with each other?。
Now, it's a huge problem because it goes against how God wants us to live.。
Here's the truth. The truth is you and I and everyone else in this world are made in the image of God.。
And he made us the way he made us was to be in deep, meaningful, genuine, life-giving, joyful relationships with him, first of all, and then with each other.。
This is the way we've been designed. This is the way we've been created. This is why we crave relationships.。
Go back to Genesis when God was doing his thing right in the beginning of time, creating the heavens and the earth.。
After each day, after each section of work, he declared it good. Light and darkness. Good. Sky and land. Good. Sun, moon and planets. Good.。
Fish and the sea animals and the land. Good. Human beings. Good. It was all very good when creation was completed.。
Apart from one thing. In this perfectly created universe, there was one thing God said was not good.。
And that was loneliness. He tells us it is not good for the man to be alone. I will make a helper suitable for him.。
And so out of that, Eve is created. And Adam and Eve, she and Adam have this flourishing, deep, authentic, vulnerable relationship with each other.。
We know this because the Bible tells us that they were together. They were naked and they were unashamed.。
Right. So there was this complete truth, complete honesty, complete vulnerability, this perfect community they had, first of all, with their creator and then also with each other.。
And like I said just now, this is why we crave real and deep relationships.。
It's because we've been designed and created so that it's not good for us to be alone.。
God made us to be with each other, which means that the true potential of any relationship is only realized when those relationships,。
the one we have with God and the one we have with each other, are going back to his original plan and purposes for them.。
But the problem is this, right? Sin has completely messed up our relationships.。
Sin has completely messed up everything in our lives. The enemy has come to rob, kill and destroy our connection with God and our connection with each other.。
This is why when we conform to the world, we lose who God created us to be.。
And it shouldn't be surprising, right? Because if the whole process of us building a relationship with each other is a version that you've created of yourself,。
not the real you that God has created you to be, then of course it's not going to work.。
But because the whole foundation of this has been a lie.。
If you've literally had to change everything about yourself so that you would fit into a group, make this person like you or make that person want to date you,。
and then you suddenly find yourself struggling in relationships, unfulfilled, it feels shallow, you know it's being fake.。
And eventually we feel that sort of heaviness on us, right? It becomes unbearable.。
This is because God did not create us to approach relationships in this way.。
And instead of being these life-giving, joyful things, relationships have become a deep source of pain.。
Relationships have even become a way we use to hurt each other.。
And sin has so poisoned how we relate to each other that we now cannot be ourselves.。
We cannot come before each other unashamedly, in vulnerability and in authenticity.。
The good news is though, there is a better way.。
And what the enemy comes to rob, kill and destroy, Jesus says he comes to give us life and life to the full.。
And that full life is found when our relationships aren't shaped by the world and its culture, but rooted in the real love of God.。
And the gospel is that we know what this love looks like.。
Scripture gives us clear pictures and good guidelines of how to live out this relationship, these genuine relationships that God wants us to have.。
Romans 12, 9 tells us this, "Love must be sincere. Hate what is evil, cling to what is good."。
First, let's look at this. Love must be sincere.。
Now, growing up in Hong Kong, every time I hear the word sincere, I always think about the department store.。
It's just a natural reaction. We're not talking about the shopping and department stores.。
Sincere here means free from pretense and deceit, proceeding from genuine feelings.。
Fake love can be one of the most damaging things that we can do to each other.。
And some of us have taken advantage of people we know are looking for love, looking for acceptance, connection, and friendship.。
We've seen vulnerable people, and we know the right words to say.。
We know the right way to pretend to care.。
But meanwhile, we also know that all that, this is just fake. There's nothing genuine about this.。
None of it is real. And our aim is to manipulate and deceive others with a false sense of love so that we can get what we want.。
I said this in the second service. I think it goes for all of us at all times too.。
And if that is you in this community here today, I want you to hear me very carefully.。
There is no place for that in this church, in this community.。
You're welcome to come and worship. You're welcome to come and be a part.。
But if you are going to use this place as a way to seek out vulnerable people, to take advantage of them,。
misuse trust that people give to you, that is not going to be accepted in this community.。
Because for some of us, we have been the victims of that.。
We've given ourselves away to someone else because we believe that their love for us was sincere when it wasn't.。
We've heard the words, we felt the feelings. So we give our time, our trust, our money, our resources, our feelings, our bodies.。
We give up ourselves only to find out that it was all a lie.。
And when that happens to us, it's hurtful and it's damaging.。
And sometimes it hurts so much that we feel like we never want to open ourselves up ever again for the fear of being hurt once more.。
But here's the thing about God's love. There is nothing fake about God's love.。
God doesn't just tell us that he loves us. He shows it to us time and time again.。
You might argue that the entirety of Scripture, the entirety of all the stories that put together that we have in our Bibles,。
are countless examples of how God demonstrates his love for humanity.。
Before the flood hits the world, he tells Noah, "Build an ark, right? Save yourself.。
I'm showing you my love by telling you, by warning you, the flood is coming.。
Build an ark, keep you and your family safe."。
He leads the Israelites out of slavery and provides everything that they could possibly need in the most desolate of places in the wilderness.。
He gives food, he gives water, he guides them into the promised land.。
When people don't have strength, he steps in personally and fights battles for them.。
He sends prophets with messages of warning and promises and of comfort of his love.。
He declares to us that his love reaches to a thousand generations.。
This really is just a hyperbole for his love for us is never ending.。
It goes on and on and on and on.。
He refuses to give up on human beings, even though time and time again, we rebel against him.。
And ultimately, God showed his love for us by becoming flesh, by sending Jesus to come and walk on this earth.。
And Jesus, as our Savior, becomes the perfect example of what love is.。
A love that reaches out to everybody, a love which is not scared to get involved in the hurts and pains of broken people instead of keeping them at arm's length.。
A love which was willing to sacrifice his own life.。
And Jesus goes to the cross as a loving sacrifice for the consequences of our sins.。
This is why when Paul tells us about what love is, he is obviously thinking about Jesus, right?。
He says these are the qualities of love.。
Love is patient. Love is kind. It does not envy. It does not boast. It is not proud.。
It does not dishonor others. It is not self-seeking. It is not easily angered.。
It keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil, but always rejoices with the truth.。
It always protects, always trust, always hope, always perseveres.。
Love never fails.。
This is the kind of love that God has for us, which means that this is the kind of love that he wants us to display to each other in relationship.。
Right. This is sincere love. That's what it looks like.。
But Paul doesn't stop there. He says this love must be sincere.。
The next step of that is we have to hate what is evil.。
And why is that?。
Well, we cannot truly love each other if we're not willing to confront the very things that threaten to ruin that love.。
Real love has to take a stand against the evil.。
We cannot just sit idly by and do nothing about it.。
We cannot ignore the things that are threatening to tear people apart.。
And we need to be reminded about this, because if we're honest, all of us in this room would probably say, I mean, hopefully nobody in this room would say, oh, yeah, I love doing evil things.。
I've spent all my time plotting evil, you know, like, thinking in the brain, you know, and I just want to do evil things all the time.。
But at the same time, right, on some level, I think we all wrestle with it.。
We have a certain fascination with sin.。
And like I said, it's because sin and evil have infected every aspect of our lives.。
And like we've been talking about, the very presence of evil in this world is precisely why it's so hard to be in relationship with each other.。
It's why relationships can sometimes be a struggle.。
So what is evil? What are these things that God hates?。
Well, good thing for us, Scripture also gives us a very clear picture of these things.。
Proverbs 6 tells us this.。
"They are six things that the Lord hates," right? Doesn't get more clear than that.。
"Seven that are detestable to him.。
Haughty eyes, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that divides his wicked schemes, feet that are quick to rush into evil, a false witness who pours out lies, and a person who stirs up conflict in the community."。
Now, if you look at this list, you'll notice that there's a common thread that runs through it.。
Every single one of these evil characteristics are things that are detrimental to our personal relationships.。
"Haughty eyes" means people who are arrogant.。
"Haughty eyes" are people who are arrogant and think they are above everybody else.。
"A lying tongue" is not just those who speak words that are not true, but it's those who try and twist the truth for their own gain.。
"Hands that shed innocent blood" are people who are unable to control their anger, right?。
Always angry at any moment to the point where they're willing to get violent.。
"A heart that divides his wicked schemes" are those that will compromise their values if it will work out to their own advantage.。
"Feet that rush towards evil" are those who look forward to opportunities of doing wrong and then hiding in the shadows and getting away with it.。
"False witnesses" refers to those who don't uphold justice, who are willing to trample on other people and oppress them so that they can get the advantage in life.。
And the person who stirs up conflict is the one who attempts to break up these building blocks,。
these foundations of trust and of love and of friendship that hold society together.。
Now you tell me, does this sound like the kind of person that you would like to be?。
Does this sound like the kind of people that you would want to be in relationship with?。
But again, if we're honest, and you know, I had to do a lot of honest thinking in the preparation for this as well.。
Sometimes we do embrace these characteristics over the characteristics of genuine love.。
And for myself, as I was reflecting, these things are tempting to cling on to rather than love.。
So one area I found myself sort of thinking about in my wrestling was when it talked about haughty eyes or being arrogant.。
Because I find it very hard not to judge things.。
When I look at a situation or I see something, one of my instant reactions normally is judgment.。
I think, oh, I could do a better job than that.。
Often it's when it comes to preaching, to be honest.。
I look at, you know, when I see other preachers on Instagram or on Facebook or things like that on YouTube, right?。
And sit there and listen, I'm thinking things like, ah, you know, that's not really right.。
Right. Or I usually said that a different way.。
Or did this person even study the text because it's not, you know, he's not doing the right things or she's not doing the right things and all that kind of stuff.。
And what starts as general critique often takes an ugly term to me thinking I'm much better than that person.。
Or a heart that devises wicked schemes.。
Excuse me. I try my very best to be a person of integrity.。
But I also know because of my position as a trusted member of this community.。
Right. It's easy for me to take people's trust and twist and turn things to my own advantage because there is a natural trust that people give to me.。
And I have to really watch myself. I feel sometimes not to abuse people's trust and twist and turn things for my own advantage.。
I don't know what you're wrestling with. Is this for you personally?。
What I do know, it's not easy. And building relationships that reflect God's love is going to be a battle.。
We're going to be fighting every day against our own sinful tendencies.。
We're going to have to be willing of things like the evil things that we hold on to.。
So how do we fight for this? How do we get back to these relationships that God wants us to have?。
Well, the passage tells us to do this. Cling on to what is good. Cling on to what is good.。
Cling on means to hold on to for dear life. You know, hold on with everything you have to what is good.。
Well, what is good then? Well, we talked about it just now. Jesus.。
Jesus is the definition of goodness. And Jesus doesn't just call us to live differently.。
Right. When we hold on to Jesus, we get empowered to live differently.。
We get empowered to approach our relationships in a different way.。
If we don't do it on our own strength, we do it with the strength that he gives to us.。
2 Peter 1, 3 to 4 will tell it this way.。
The divine power he has given us, everything we need for a godly life through our knowledge of him,。
who has called us to his own glory and goodness.。
To these he has given us a very great and precious promise, so that through them you may participate in the divine nature,。
having escaped the corruption of the world caused by evil desires.。
In other words, if we want to get back to the kind of relationships that are built on pure, holy, godly love,。
the kind of relationships that we were created for, we can.。
This is a picture that we can build, but only through his power.。
Now, this is an important point to keep in mind.。
I say that because one of the dangers when we start talking about things like better relationships and better work things and all that kind of stuff, right,。
is that it can start to sound a little bit like self-help.。
Okay, this is not self-help church.。
I'm not talking about self-help.。
Self-help will tell us that if you want better relationships, just pick up yourselves a little bit, make yourself, be a better yourself, make a better version of yourself.。
And listen, you can go do that right now.。
There are thousands and thousands of self-help books, courses, conferences to make you so-called better person.。
And yes, maybe your relationships might improve at the same time.。
But here's the thing.。
Self-help will only get you so far in this world.。
But the gospel is the salvation in this life and the next.。
Remember, the whole point of this series, right, we're calling it public faith.。
And public faith is not so that people will look at us and say, "Oh, look what a great person that we have."。
There's no gospel power in that, right?。
The whole point of this public faith series is that we are preaching the gospel with our lives.。
So that whether it's in parenting and work and ambition and yes, in our relationships, people will see us and not say, "Oh, what a great person."。
But people will see us and say, "Oh my goodness, I see Jesus in that person."。
And if that's what a relationship with Jesus looks like, I want to be like that.。
I want to know who Jesus is too.。
And when we have relationships like this, suddenly the need to conform goes away.。
Because we don't need to conform anymore.。
We can tell everybody, "Come as you are," because that's how Jesus welcomes us.。
When we have relationships like this, these are the kind of relationships where we're willing to sacrifice each other, not to take from each other.。
When we have relationships like this, we can rejoice as well as mourn with each other.。
When we have relationships like this, our goal becomes how to out-honor each other, not how to take one step ahead of the other person.。
When we have relationships like this, we don't have to pretend like life is perfect anymore, but we can come with every ounce of brokenness and vulnerability and emptiness and find loving acceptance.。
When we have relations like this, people will see that Jesus is the reason.。
This isn't just about better relationships.。
It's about our witness.。
And when the world looks at us, they're deciding what they believe about Jesus based upon how we love.。
And so our job now is to continue to hate what is evil, deal with sin and all the brokenness in our lives and in this world.。
We cling to what is good so that people can tell we are Christians by the way we love each other.。
Of course, this sounds kind of idealistic.。
And the truth is we are all on a journey in this, right?。
The challenge to live like this is something that we're going to have to keep on working on day after day, time and time again.。
And one of the beautiful things about this series is that we've been inviting people from the community to share their experiences about what it's been like for them to navigate the different areas that we've been talking about.。
And so at this point, I want to invite a friend of mine.。
I can call him a friend. He's sort of a friend.。
OK, I want to invite a friend of mine to the stage, someone who I have a friendship and a relationship with.。
He's a young adult. He studied in Hong Kong, came to Hong Kong as a university student at first.。
And now he's transitioned into being a young professional.。
He's trying to navigate life as, you know, a young person now in this city.。
So, brothers and sisters, if you please help me to welcome my friend Aaron Shanley to the hot seat.。
OK, how are you, Aaron? You've been here all day. I really appreciate this, by the way.。
Yeah. Oh, thank you. Oh, thank you. Thank you.。
Did you know this guy? You don't you never know.。
Oh, there you go. All right. Well, welcome, Aaron.。
Can you get a mic for him? How was your lunch?。
It was good. It was good. I was getting a lot of people going.。
OK, yeah. Oh, good. New. Criticizing.。
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. OK. Thought so. OK, Aaron, why don't you introduce yourself a little bit first?。
Yeah. Some of us know who you are, but not everyone here. So, yeah, just give us a little bio of you.。
Sure. Yeah. So my name is Aaron. I am an Indian, if you couldn't tell.。
But I grew up in the Middle East, in a country called Oman.。
I was. Yeah. And I came to Hong Kong round about six and a half years back for university.。
I studied economics and then I graduated around about two and a half years back now.。
And now I'm working in a consulting adjacent field.。
And just for some context, I come from a culturally Christian background, but I really gave my life to Christ like about five years back.。
So praise God for that. Yeah. Praise God for that. Yay. Really good.。
Well, you know, I first got to know Aaron when he came into our Young Adults Fellowship 180 as a student.。
And like I said, he's been, you know, spent a few years in Hong Kong now and now working as a young professional here.。
And so you've probably seen a good spectrum of the different things a young person and now a working adult has to deal with and wrestle through.。
And especially with your faith as well. So, you know, Hong Kong is a busy place.。
It's all these things that go against us when it comes to building relationships.。
But I wonder if you could share a few of your own struggles.。
Like what has it been like for you to build genuine relationships, both in the church and outside of the church and some of the difficulties that you face?。
Yeah. I guess like. Well, thank you. That's all we have time for.。
That's why I asked you to leave. I guess.。
Like both both inside and outside the church, like something that you that you mentioned as well, like I feel like all of us, or maybe if I'm being honest, like me, I struggle a lot with judgment.。
Right. Like I the first I guess my instinct when I meet someone is to judge them.。
And then there's also a fear of them judging me back.。
So there's always like those barriers that you set up when you when you meet someone.。
And because there's like this performance that you're that you're putting up, there's you're only scratching the surface of all these relationships that you're getting getting into.。
Right. But and obviously it doesn't it doesn't make sense for you to, you know, go and air out your dirty laundry like the first time you meet someone. Right.。
And something that God's been teaching me recently is, is, I guess like going back to Philippines, where he and we talked about this last week as well, where we're called to view others higher than ourselves or highly right.。
So, and he's been teaching me that anyone he can use anyone to speak to you. So, for context, I serve in our K4C team here as well.。
So there are and the age range that I teach is 10 to 12 years old, 10 to 12 year olds.。
And guys, the questions that they ask, insane.。
These 10 to 12 year olds are asking theological questions that I've never even dreamed of, never imagined of.。
So now I'm called to go and do research on these questions that they're asking so that I can educate myself so that I can educate them.。
Right. Insane questions that they're asking and they're and they're so young.。
And I guess like another example that I can give is someone that I that I met at the Vine.。
Someone that I didn't think I would, I would have like a friendship with.。
He's actually in this room right now. I'm not going to name names.。
But this person, when I first met them, I genuinely didn't think that, you know, we would be good friends.。
Not because of anything that is particularly wrong with him. Nothing particularly wrong with me.。
It's not like our personalities are like drastically different.。
It's more so just, I guess he didn't fit the mold of what my friends in the past look like.。
So I never thought that, oh yeah, like nothing would come out of this relationship.。
But then as the years went on, as I've gotten to know him more and more,。
the way that he's lived life has edified me so much.。
And you start seeing that God really speaks to you through anyone.。
Like someone that I didn't think that I would ever have a relationship with.。
Now I can say confidently that I love him with all my heart.。
So it's really crazy to see how that works.。
Yeah, no, that's really beautiful.。
The journey you take, you know, and you know, you serving through serving, right?。
Like how God teaches you as you serve as well.。
How you get to know people that you didn't think you would get to know that well.。
All the process of building these sort of genuine relationships.。
Yeah, that's really beautiful.。
But, you know, I bet like through the different stages you've been as well,。
there must have been times where you felt, oh, you know, maybe if I changed a little bit about this, about myself,。
or if I was, I wish I could, maybe even I wish I could be a bit more like that.。
So I could fit in there, you know, at university and now working, right?。
What's the temptation to conform been like for you?。
And when you do feel the pressure to compromise values, perhaps your Christian values, especially,。
how do you deal with those seasons or those moments when they come up?。
Yeah, I mean, that's that's so real.。
It's such a real question because everyone here goes goes through that that struggle.。
And like for the majority of us, we were surrounded by other non-believers, right?。
Like people of different backgrounds, different faiths, even people in ministry to an extent are surrounded by other, you know,。
like it's such a culturally diverse place, Hong Kong.。
And there's always that instinct or that temptation to conform.。
And I was talking about this to some people yesterday.。
And we were trying to figure out, OK, like, what what can we do?。
Like, what's something that we can do to not conform? Right.。
And and someone brought up about how important it is to have our identity rooted in Christ.。
How important is it is to understand that as well? And where do you go for that?。
You go back to scripture. Right. And you and you see what what God talks about, how God talks about us.。
Right. He calls us his his sons and daughters. Right.。
Like just just it's so crazy to think that the creator of the universe is calling each and every single one of us his son and his daughter.。
Right. He calls us warriors. Right. He calls us heirs to his kingdom.。
Like such. It's so crazy to think that our God thinks of us like that. Right.。
And I guess like when you have that in perspective and when you're put or when you're in that situation again, where you're where it's like easy to conform, you you think, OK, do you are you trying to please this person?。
Or are you trying to please Jesus? Right. And guys, I trust me. I know how hard it can be.。
Like it's such a such a hard struggle. But you you choose Jesus.。
You choose Jesus and you see how the people around you react. You see that initially there might be like a bit bit of pushback.。
They might be like, oh, this guy's weird. You know, like he doesn't want to do the same things as us.。
But then you start seeing that they slowly start getting respect for you, respect for you for sticking your ground.。
Right. Respect for you for being consistent with the things that you believe in.。
And then slowly they they come up to you and they and they start, you know, because of that respect that they're slowly getting.。
They'll you remember or like they remember that, oh, yeah, this guy's a this guy's a Christian because of the the the flag that you are like your Christian flag that you've already put up.。
You know, the one that Pastor John talked about a few weeks back. Right.。
And and they I guess like tie together that, OK, this guy's different and he's probably different because he's a Christian.。
So they start asking more questions and they ask more questions. And now suddenly they're asking, hey, Aaron, like, can we can we come to your church?。
Right. And and now I have like two of my colleagues, you know, coming to church a few weeks down the line, which is which is so cool because God God works in in those relationships as well.。
And I guess like at the at the foundation of it. A few months back, I think we were doing a series of on sojourners at 180 and we were talking about how like we're really all just temporary residents here on Earth.。
Right. We live around about 70 or 80 years, 90 years, if you're Hong Konger.。
And and we we live these 90 years of life. Right. But then you you think about what Scripture says and it says we have eternity left to live as well.。
Right. We have eternity with Christ left to live. So then you have to start thinking, OK, who is it that you have that you want to please?。
Is it the the people that you're going to spend your time with 70 to 80 years on this earth or the person that you're going to spend eternity with in heaven?。
Yeah. Right. So I think when you it took me a long time to get to that place and I'm still struggling with it.。
But I guess like when that perspective comes in, it makes that choice to not conform easier.。
Yeah, that's really good, Aaron. I think for me, you know, I'm always fascinated when I speak to people like who work and that's most of you guys.。
Right. And in the outside world, because, you know, for myself and my colleagues, you know, and then the pastoral team and the church team, we're always surrounded by each other.。
So it's very normal for us to sit down over lunch and, you know, pour over a passage of Scripture.。
And I find myself having to purposely seek out non-Christian environments to be in.。
And one of the areas I've put myself in recently is not to say anything about myself on it, but I started doing jujitsu about a year ago.。
So the jujitsu gym is not a very Christian environment at all. Right. The conversations that people have, all that kind of stuff.。
But since now they found out I was a pastor. And first they started making fun of me a little bit for it because, you know, I'm not very good.。
And whenever they get me in a compromising situation, you know, they're trying to like put me in a choke or trying to break my arm or twist my knee off, whatever.。
They always they started making fun of me. Hey, where's Jesus now? You know, it's like, why don't you pray, Pastor?。
And maybe he'll give you strength, you know, you know, and it's joking. It's it's it's it's jestful teasing.。
But then recently, some of the conversations have just very, I feel like very subtly started to change where, you know, after you're done with a session, you know, you sit around and talk.。
And some of the guys have I'm not sure if they're like aware that they're doing it, but started opening up a little bit.。
So, like, I was chatting to this one guy the other day. You know, I don't think Jesus likes me very much.。
I was like, wow, that just why would you say that? You know, and he started describing different thoughts that he had.。
And I was just thinking, wow, you know, like what a what a great way of, you know, just standing your ground, letting people know about your faith and then and seeing where that journey takes you.。
But being intentional about letting people know your values and your faith. Right. Yeah, that's really good.。
OK, and final question for you, if you were to leave us with one piece of advice, I can't believe we're taking advice from Aaron.。
But if you were leaving us with one piece of advice, Aaron, OK, what would you what would you leave with us?。
Yeah, thanks, Alice. Yeah, I guess it's hard because there's like so many things that you can talk about.。
But but I feel like something that God's put in my heart is to.。
I guess, like, involve him in in your relationships. Right. And it sounds simple enough.。
But when when you are a young professional or or just just as a Hong Konger or someone who lives in Hong Kong,。
there's like time and energy are the two things that you're short on. Right.。
And. With with there being so many other things that are distracting you, you forget that there is someone that really wants to be involved in your life,。
someone that you can go to. I think a few services, our last service we were singing about, there is no one like the Lord.。
Like if there really is no one like the Lord, then wouldn't he be the first person that you go to for every single relationship advice or like things are things that are going on in your life?。
Isn't he the first person that you would want to go to? And what does this look like practically, like involving him?。
Like, I guess for for friendships, it's it's praying for them. And I'm going to spam the word prayer a lot because it really is underrated.。
You you pray for them and you and you let the spirit convict you and move you.。
And and then it convicts you sometimes. And it says, OK, Aaron, like you should you should you should apologize to that guy.。
Right. You said some hurtful words. So you put your ego aside and you you're able to apologize to them.。
Or in your in your work relationships, you you go up to that person who clearly is stressed out.。
You go up to them and you ask them, hey, do you want to have a chat? Right. Like I see that you're stressed out. Let's let's talk.。
I had a I had something happen at work recently where there was this this one colleague of mine.。
He's he's been bummed about the job for like God knows how long. Right. Like he hates he hates the job.。
And to an extent, it has brought our team morale down. Like when someone's sad, like, you know, we're we're empathetic beings.。
Like we also generally tend to get sad. And and I've been I've tried talking to him.。
Right. Like I've tried having conversations with him, but like nothing, nothing seemed to work.。
And then like as a last resort, I'm like, OK, you know what, let me just pray for this guy.。
Although that should have been my first resort. And and so I pray for this guy.。
I pray I pray for him that night. And then the next day he comes in, he comes into work and I see I see I see his face.。
And he has this he has the largest the biggest smile on his face. He's like going in like all chipper, like walking like this.。
And he's like giving me air. I'm like, wait, what happened? I don't know. I'm like, I just feel good.。
And then like those are the moments that you realize, wait, guys, like God is real. Yeah. Right.。
Like I prayed for that guy this this just the last evening, someone who's been so angry about the job for the past three, four months.。
And now suddenly he's he's so chipper about it. Right. And so God clearly worked.。
I don't know what he did, but he worked that that evening in this guy's life.。
And I guess like the most juicy topic would be one about dating. Right.。
And I know I'm definitely not one to give advice on this. I've made my fair share of mistakes with with dating.。
But guys, like God is really miraculous. Like if if Ellison was able to find.。
He's waiting for that one. Yeah. Living testimony. Yes. Amen.。
Right. Yeah. God can work in all of us.。
But for you, like I think God calls us to involve him in those relationships as well.。
Like pray for them. Talk to people much wiser than you have those conversations.。
And I guess like give yourself grace when you make mistakes, because he will refine you.。
He'll refine you through those mistakes. And in the end, he'll be glorified.。
And even when you don't make mistakes, even when you do the right things like we give all the glory to him.。
Right. So, yeah, I guess like involve God. Yeah. Thank you, Aaron.。
That was really good. Yeah. Stay here for a second.。
Well, I've been giving Aaron a hard time the whole day, you know, and that's just sort of the way we banter with each other.。
But honestly, this is a fine young man. I've seen him come in from the fan club.。
All right. There we go. You can tell by the testimony of the friends that he has around him.。
I've seen him grow in his faith and the way he serves his community and the way he's, you know, so open and apologetic about his journey with Jesus.。
Right. It's been something that I've really admired. That's for real. OK.。
So, yeah. Love you, bro. Thank you. OK. All right.。
So, Church, I wonder if you'd join me in standing. And we're just going to end, as Aaron was saying just now, Lord, with prayer.。
By bringing everything we've talked about this afternoon to the Lord in prayer.。
So if you just close your eyes. And so, Jesus, we thank you for this time.。
Father, remind us of who we have been made in you.。
That we are sons and daughters of you, Lord.。
Precious and you look down on us with love and affection and care.。
And when you see us hurting and when you see us hurting each other, it breaks your heart as well, Jesus.。
And so, Lord, I pray that you would teach us. Teach us what it means to honor, to love, to respect.。
Teach us what it means to walk with each other. Teach us what it means to love as you have loved us.。
And in all this, Lord, we are being shaped and conformed and shaped and transformed to who you want us to be.。
And the world will see this as hope. The world will see this as the lifeline that they've been looking for.。
And would come not to find perfect people who do everything right.。
But people who are just as broken, who have been just as lost, but have found the strength that they can cling on to.。
The goodness that they can cling on to, which is you, Lord.。
And so, Jesus, teach us to love and help us to love.。
In your name we pray. Amen.。
[Silence]。
