Well, I'm so glad you're here.。
Welcome to the Vine.。
My name's Andrew.。
I'm one of the pastors here, and we're really grateful that you're here on the first Sunday。
of 2025.。
Can you believe 2025?。
Pastor Ellison said to us this morning that there are people that are just being born。
recently who will see the year 3000.。
Get your head around that.。
Okay, only that blew me away.。
Okay, whatever.。
I just thought that was cool.。
My daughter might see the year 3000.。
Anyway, I really believe, as we're stepping into 2025, I really believe this.。
We're about to begin what I believe is going to be the most significant year in the Vine's。
history.。
I have so much excitement in my heart, so much longing for what I sense that God wants。
to do amongst us.。
I believe that this will be our most significant year in the history of this church.。
And I want to say this, I think it's going to be your most significant year too, because。
the church isn't an institution.。
It's not an organization, although we sometimes need those things in the fabric and structures。
of churches.。
But the church, if it's anything, is the people.。
And I believe that this can be, will be, and I'll say it in a prophetic way over you, your。
most significant year ever.。
And I don't know how you feel as you step into 2025.。
Perhaps some of you in here, you feel excited and expectant.。
Maybe some of you feel cautious.。
Maybe you're a bit careful as you step in.。
Maybe 2024 was a difficult, challenging year, and you're not sure how 2025 is going to go.。
And you're sort of tentatively stepping into the year.。
Whether you're stepping into this year with excitement or whether you're a little bit。
cautious, here's what I do know.。
That the God that we worship and we serve is a God whose primary purpose is the movement。
of God's people forward into a deeper relationship with Jesus Christ.。
The primary focus that we have from God is to move his people forward to become more。
and more like Christ Jesus.。
And if that is true, then surely this year has every chance to be your most significant。
year ever.。
Because we don't serve a God who's going backwards.。
Come on church.。
We don't serve a God who's heading back somewhere.。
We serve a God who always moves forward, and therefore the church is always moving forward.。
And actually the work of the Spirit is always to come and transform and change us.。
Yes, so that we are transformed, but almost more than that, so that we would become an。
influence in our city, in our workplaces, in the places that we have an influence for。
his kingdom, for the gospel, for the hope that is in Christ Jesus.。
In other words, God changes you so that you can partner with him in changing the world.。
And I want you to hear this not in some sort of puffed up kind of, "Oh, it's the new year.。
We're going to change the world."。
Only Jesus changes the world.。
You don't change the world.。
Jesus changes the world.。
But here's the most profound thing.。
It is Jesus that changes the world, but he's decided to do it through the church, through。
us, through broken vessels, through the ones that don't always have the answers, through。
the ones that don't always get it right, through the ones that have sin and are wrestling。
with sin.。
God has decided in his infinite wisdom to choose the broken vessels of this world to。
bring his spirit and his hope and his gospel into the world.。
And if God is moving forward, oh, how we should be moving forward.。
We should be a church with momentum, a church on the go.。
And so however you feel as you step into this year, and let's be honest, 2025, there's going。
to be some challenges.。
We know that there are challenges in the world right now, geopolitically, and perhaps there。
are going to get worse as we go forward.。
And maybe you recognize that there are some challenges and some struggles in your own。
life right now.。
This is personal for you.。
You also feel personal challenges.。
Whatever challenges you might be facing, we cannot start this year in retreat.。
We cannot start this year defeated.。
Because if our God is a God of momentum, moving his people forward to become more like Christ。
Jesus, then surely we have to start this year saying, "I'm ready to go."。
Okay.。
Try that again.。
No, I won't.。
I'm not even going to try it again.。
Okay.。
We're just going to carry on.。
Now, listen to this.。
If we're going to be a church in Hong Kong that takes the gospel seriously in 2025, we。
have to take Jesus's word seriously.。
And Jesus, right at the end of his life, gathers his disciples up on that mountain, doesn't。
he?。
And before his ascension, he's resurrected.。
So he's in his resurrection power, but it's before he ascends and he gathers his most。
faithful disciples around him.。
There were 11 of them at that time.。
And he speaks into them and he says these words.。
He says, "All authority on heaven and earth has been given to me.。
So now stay here."。
No, he didn't say that.。
He did say that in a minute because he says, "Stay and wait for the Holy Spirit."。
But in this moment, he says, "Now go.。
Go.。
I'm sending you," he says.。
And you want to know what I'm sending you to do?。
He says, "I want you to make disciples of all the nations.。
I want you to baptize them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.。
And then I want you to teach them to obey everything that I've commanded you.。
And here's the kicker.。
I will be with you.。
Every step of the way, I will be with you."。
So Jesus says, one of his last words to his disciples is, "I have all authority and power.。
So here's what I'm saying to you as the church.。
I want you to go.。
I want you to go forward in that authority and power that is invested into you through。
the work of the Holy Spirit."。
That's why he says, "Wait and do this until you receive the Holy Spirit.。
Once you have that Holy Spirit, you are to go."。
And so we must be a church on the move.。
Does that make sense?。
A church with mission.。
So if 2025 is anything for the vine, it should be a year of action.。
Now I want to just say that this is not some new calling for us.。
This is not like some new vision or some fresh idea at the start of the year.。
This has actually been birthed by the Holy Spirit in our community over multiple years。
of what the Lord's been doing amongst us.。
In fact, I want to actually pull the threads together a little bit this morning and help。
you to see what the Holy Spirit has been doing in us as a community.。
In 2022, we felt called to heal.。
It was right off the back of COVID.。
And we felt like the Holy Spirit said to us, 2022 is going to be a year of healing.。
A year of gathering back together for the first time after all that pandemic, after。
all the social distancing, even after the social movement that had happened in 2019。
and 2020.。
As we gathered back together physically for the first time in 2022, we knew that we were。
being called to heal.。
That all of us were carrying some baggage.。
In fact, one of the things that we said to us that year is that we need to shake the。
dust off.。
We all had gotten a little bit dusty and it was great to get back together again in 2022.。
Then in 2023, we felt God call us to Exodus.。
We actually spent a whole year pretty much studying the book of Exodus in Scripture.。
And in that book, we saw so many profound, important things for us as Christians.。
How God wants to bring us on a journey out of our slavery to sin into newness and freedom,。
into a promised land that he has given to us.。
And we taught that year that Hong Kong is that promised land for us.。
And that we need to be an Exodus people.。
People that have been called out of slavery of sin into new life in Christ so that we。
can enter our promised land and do the things that God has on his heart for us to do.。
That was 2023.。
But then in 2024, we said, God is calling us to intimacy.。
That was the word we had for us as a church that whole year.。
Now that made sense because you know what happened in Exodus.。
God calls his people out of their slavery into sin and he calls them out in order to。
call them in to his presence on Mount Sinai.。
Remember that if you're around here in 2023, we were called out of our slavery in to his。
presence around Mount Sinai.。
And so it followed that a year of Exodus would follow in 2024 to a year of intimacy.。
And we invited you to connect deeply with God, to have time with Jesus, to make it a。
priority to fall more in love with Christ.。
I had the blessing of having a sabbatical last year.。
And so that was a great way for me to do that.。
And I know that many of us did that in lots of different ways.。
It was a year of intimacy.。
But here's the important thing.。
As a leadership, even though we discern that God was calling us into intimacy, we knew。
that that intimacy was actually on behalf of a bigger purpose.。
And while it was important that we would connect with Jesus, fall more in love with him, spend。
more time with him last year, it was always on behalf of something else.。
What you have to understand in scripture is that intimacy is a platform, not a destination.。
Come on church.。
Intimacy is a platform, not a destination.。
Jesus actually said in John 15, where we get the name of the vine from, the very passage。
that we get it from, he says, "If you abide in me, you will bear much fruit."。
Now there's this stuff that will happen out of the intimacy you have with me.。
So intimacy is this platform through which and from which we are able to serve.。
If we serve without the intimacy, we will burn out.。
But if we abide in him, we are able to do more in our city, more in the world around。
us out of that abiding in him.。
So intimacy is a platform, not a destination.。
Does that make sense to you?。
So that is why as we head into 2025, we knew that intimacy was not always going to be there.。
We knew that actually this year is a call to action.。
This is to take that fruit that hopefully every single one of us has received last year。
and begin to sow that fruit into our workplaces, into the places of influence that we have,。
into the city that we love so much.。
We are called this year out of intimacy into action.。
That doesn't mean that we let go of intimacy.。
It doesn't mean that that was a 2024 thing.。
You don't need to be intimate with Jesus anymore.。
We have to abide in him, remain in him, but we have to shift our mentality from just being。
with him to being with him for a purpose, being with him so that we can partner with。
him to change the world.。
Does that make sense to you?。
Okay, now that flow is where our challenge lies.。
Here's the challenge.。
It's not easy to go from intimacy to action because intimacy is good.。
Intimacy is comfortable.。
Intimacy is awesome.。
It was great to stand up last year and say, "Hey, be more intimate with Jesus."。
You were all like, "Yes!"。
Now I'm standing up and saying, "Hey, take the gospel to your workplace."。
And you're like, "Hmm, that's a little bit different, right?"。
It's easier to remain in a place of intimacy because intimacy is awesome.。
It's comfortable.。
It's good.。
But then stepping out of intimacy into action, that requires a shift.。
That requires something new.。
That's not a straightforward transition.。
And so here's what we want to do at the start of 2025.。
If God is calling us to a year of action, then how do we go from intimacy to action。
well?。
And over the next four Sundays, we're going to actually explore that with you.。
And we're going to look at Samuel and David.。
The reason why we're looking at Samuel and David in the Old Testament is because they。
both went through times of intimacy into action in their lives.。
And so we're going to see how they do that transition to help us understand ours.。
But also they go through what I would say are mindset changes in order to do the things。
that God has called them to do.。
They had old mindsets that they needed to let go of in order to embrace a new mindset。
to be able to do what it is that God had for them to do.。
And I think it's the same also for us.。
I think we need some mindset changes as we step into 2025 for the things that God has。
for the vine to do in its future.。
And again, by that, has for you to do in your spirit of influence.。
And so we're going to talk about four things.。
Next week we're going to talk about having the right choices.。
We talk about choices.。
A week after that, we're going to talk about having the right kind of resources in our。
lives and how we're using those resources.。
We're going to talk about after that, the right community and the people that we have。
around us and are they the right people that we have around us.。
And then finally, or actually today, we're going to talk about having the right start.。
How do we actually begin?。
How do we get our starting point right?。
Because here's the thing.。
If you don't start from the right place, you're going to easily drift.。
How do we make sure we're all starting in exactly the place that we should start?。
The question is, how do we begin?。
Well, let me tell you something that I think is really important as we begin to think about。
a mindset shift.。
Psychologists, counselors, therapists, they will tell you that there are five emotional。
barriers that all of us have, or all of us struggle with at some point.。
Five emotional barriers that actually block us, inhibit us, stop us from moving forward。
in whatever it might be in our human life.。
Whether that might be moving forward into a new job, moving forward into a new relationship,。
moving forward into a goal or a dream we have.。
There are five emotional barriers that will stop you, inhibit you, slow you down from。
your forward momentum.。
Does that make sense?。
You want to know what those five are?。
Hurt, disappointment, regret, shame, and failure.。
Say it again, hurt, disappointment, regret, shame, failure.。
Those five things are the emotional barriers that will inhibit you from moving forward。
with excitement into a new thing in your life.。
When hurt, disappointment, regret, shame, and failure are upon us, are a part of us,。
they become barriers to our growth.。
Does that make sense to you?。
Now here's the thing.。
They're not just barriers to our general human movement.。
They're also barriers spiritually as well.。
In fact, you can go to the Bible and you can see many examples of God's people struggling。
with hurt, disappointment, regret, shame, and failure.。
And that in the struggle, they find themselves held back from what it is that God wants to。
do with them.。
And they find it difficult to shift out of the old and into the new.。
And the burden that I felt sitting on me as I was preparing this message today is that。
I feel like for me, but I also feel like for many of us here, many of us watching online。
right now, here's the reality.。
Because hurt, disappointment, shame, regret, and failure has had such an impact on us at。
times, we actually think that we're kind of on plan B now for our lives.。
It's like, that was really hard.。
I went through a really traumatic time, or I had a really bad breakdown in a relationship,。
or I tried a job and I got fired and it was really, really hard for me.。
And we have these situations where we're sitting heavy with the weight of our brokenness from。
something that's happened in our past.。
That hurt and that disappointment, that shame and that regret, that kind of tethers us,。
anchors us to that.。
And we begin to think, well, I guess I'll just live a plan B kind of life then.。
I guess the only life that's really available for me now is not the life that I hoped for,。
not the life that I believe that God had put in my heart.。
I guess that's kind of failed.。
That hasn't worked out.。
So I guess I'm going to live a half life.。
It's still a pretty decent one, but it's not quite the one that I was hoping it would be.。
And particularly when we're dealing out of hurt, disappointment, regret, shame, and failure。
because of sin, we then get the mentality of, I'm not worthy of the life that Christ。
wants me to have.。
I'm not worthy to be used by him in the way that he wants to use me.。
I hear Pastor Andrew on a Sunday and the other pastors speak.。
I read the Bible and I see what God does in other people, but that's everybody else's。
story.。
If they knew the sin that was in my life, they would know that that's not my story and。
that shouldn't be my story.。
Are you with me?。
And so because of that, we think we're on plan B or maybe some of us plan C, D, E, and。
F.。
And you have no anticipation as you step into 2025 that actually maybe you're still。
on plan A. That actually the hurt, disappointment, shame, regret, and failure does not have to。
determine your future.。
See, when the hurt, disappointment, shame, and failure of our past speaks louder to us。
than the hope of our future, we are always in danger of missing out on the most significant。
moments of influence and impact we can have in this world.。
Always in danger of missing out on the most significant moments of impact and influence。
that we could have in the world around us.。
And I don't want a church, and I don't think you do either, that is so tethered to its。
brokenness of its past that it isn't impacting and influencing the world in the way that。
the cross of Calvary says it should.。
Jesus said, "I have built this church.。
I will build this church, and the gates of hell will not pervade against it."。
And as we step into this new year, I wonder whether we could step in actually believing。
that.。
Amen?。
So if you struggle with hurt, disappointment, shame, regret, and failure, you're human,。
number one.。
Number two, you're just like me.。
And number three, the scripture has something important to say to you.。
I want to frame that by sharing with you about the story of Samuel.。
I don't know if you know much about Samuel in the Old Testament.。
Samuel lived this incredible life.。
I'm going to pick up the story right at the end of Samuel's life though, because I want。
to show you the transition that takes place here.。
Right at the end of Samuel's life, he's so old that the leaders of Israel come to him。
and they say these very words, "You are very old."。
Can you imagine that?。
Imagine your boss coming up to you saying, "You are very old."。
So basically, he's at the end of his life.。
And here's the thing you need to know about Samuel.。
He's lived an amazing life.。
This guy has lived an incredible life.。
He's been a judge of Israel for the majority of his life.。
And as a judge, he was the leader of the nation at that time.。
Now you can see in the book of Judges, the book of 1 and 2 Kings and all this, you can。
see that actually the judges really struggled, many of them, with sin and brokenness, and。
they didn't lead God's people very well.。
Samuel, however, did.。
He's one of the few judges that was actually upright, who actually had moral integrity,。
who actually loved God, who actually served Him and obeyed His Word.。
And he did an incredible job with Israel.。
And at the end of his life, success becomes a problem for him.。
Anybody else in this room, has that ever been in your case?。
Just me?。
No, it's okay.。
Success can become a problem, right?。
And so for him, he's done this amazing job, but he's done it so well that the leaders。
of Israel come to him and say, "You're very old," which means you're going to die soon,。
which means your sons will become judges, but your sons are not like you.。
Your sons don't have the same character you do.。
Your sons are not the same upright integrity that you have.。
We don't want your sons to lead us.。
And because we don't want your sons to lead us, here's what we want you to do.。
We want you to anoint a king.。
We want to start a monarchy now.。
We want to be like the other nations that we see, who have kings and queens.。
We want that for ourselves too.。
We do not want your son, Samuel.。
Oh, you've been a great judge, but you've been a terrible father.。
Imagine how...。
They didn't actually say that.。
I added that to scripture, but I think that's kind of what they were saying.。
Could you imagine how hurt Samuel would be?。
I mean, he's given his life to these people.。
He served them as best as he can.。
And right at the end of his life, the people have come and said, "We don't want your family。
anymore."。
The hurt, the disappointment.。
I think he was hurt because he wanted to defend his sons, I'm sure.。
But I think he was hurt more than that because he felt like he had been rejected by his people,。
him personally.。
In fact, we know that because he comes to God and it's recorded for us in scripture.。
He comes to God and he prays a prayer.。
He says this, he says, "Lord, I'm distraught because they have rejected me."。
And God, in only the way that God can, comes to him and says, "No, no, no, no, Samuel,。
they've not rejected you.。
They've rejected me as king over them."。
In other words, God always saw himself as their king, as the ultimate ruler.。
And when they came and asked for a king, God was like, "They're trying to assert my power。
and my authority.。
They haven't rejected you, Samuel.。
They've actually rejected me."。
And God, because he's compassionate and loving and faithful and committed, he says these。
words to Samuel.。
He said, "Look, if they want a monarchy, we can work through a monarchy."。
He's basically like, "My redemptive purposes are not going to be thwarted by some human。
idea.。
If it's a monarchy they want, a monarchy can happen.。
I can still bring my redemptive purposes to the world through that."。
And so he says this thing to Samuel.。
He says, "Samuel, I want you to pick up your horn.。
I want you to fill it with oil.。
And then I want you to pour it over the one I'm about to anoint as king."。
Now, for Samuel, he, as a prophet and judge, he would have a horn, not too dissimilar to。
something like this.。
And in the horn, what he would do is he would pour anointing oil, perfumed oil into it.。
And then he would choose an amazingly good-looking man like this man right here.。
And he would come up to him and he would say, "Okay, the Lord's going to use this man for。
leadership."。
And he would pour that anointing oil over his head.。
And that was a prophetic symbol to say that this person has now been anointed to lead。
or to be a prophet or whatever it is.。
So when God says to Samuel, "Grab your horn, fill it with oil because I'm about to use。
it," it's saying to Samuel, "There's one more thing I want you to do.。
You're very old, but there's one more thing.。
You can hold your horn.。
You can do what I'm asking you to do."。
And so he goes, "I want you to go and anoint this guy called Saul."。
And so he goes to Saul and he anoints Saul.。
Now, Saul says these beautiful words when he's anointed.。
He says, "Who am I that I would be chosen out of all of Israel to be the one?。
Like my clan is the smallest, my tribe is the smallest.。
I can't believe I've been chosen."。
There's this beautiful humility in Saul.。
And everything in the story at this point seems to be going quite well.。
And then Saul begins to lead.。
Now, I don't know if you've ever tried to lead, but leadership is not easy.。
And he gets seduced by power, not the only or first leader in the world to have been。
seduced by power.。
He gets seduced so much by power.。
He gets a taste of it so much that within a short period of time begins to erect statues。
of himself around all of the cities of the land because he wanted his people to begin。
to look to him for authority rather than to look to God.。
"They've not rejected you, Samuel.。
They rejected me as king."。
And Saul begins to live a life where he actually begins to disobey the things that God is asking。
him to do.。
Erect statues for people to basically essentially worship him, to look to him.。
And this so grieves heart of God, so grieves God's heart that he comes to Samuel and he。
says, "Samuel, I'm so grieved that I have made Saul king over Israel.。
I'm lifting my anointing from him."。
This throws Samuel into another cycle.。
And this cycle is regret, shame, and failure.。
Because suddenly Samuel's feeling like this, "I'm at the end of my life and I've just anointed。
the last, the last act that I've done in my life is to anoint this one to be king.。
I've then stood aside.。
My family has stood aside.。
We've made space for this to happen.。
And this guy has been seduced by power.。
And now God has lifted his anointing."。
Samuel's feeling like, "My last act of life has been a failure.。
The last thing I've done has failed.。
It hasn't worked out.。
What kind of prophet, what kind of judge, what kind of leader, what kind of legacy am。
I leaving behind when the last thing I did didn't work out well?"。
The shame, the shame of being the one that actually anointed the wrong person, if you。
will, the one who grieves the heart of the Lord.。
How did that all happen?。
And Samuel is so wallowing deeply in his brokenness, in the hurt, disappointment, shame, regret,。
and failure of what's just happened to him that he is completely at a loss.。
I wonder if you've ever felt that way.。
I wonder if you've ever had a moment in your life where maybe something you've done in。
your past has so filled you with regret, so filled you with hurt that you're filled with。
shame just thinking about it.。
And that whole thing, you've either tried to ignore it, tried to bury it, tried to avoid。
it, or it's so consumed you that it's been difficult for you to get out of bed the next。
day.。
I wonder if it's just me who's felt that way.。
I'm sure all of us, right?。
To some degree can connect to where Samuel is in this moment.。
Perhaps for you, it's a relationship.。
Perhaps you've got a failed relationship in your life, maybe a failed marriage.。
And the hurt of that, the disappointment in that, the shame of that's holding you back.。
Perhaps it's a work thing.。
Maybe you tried for a job and you didn't get the job, or maybe you had a job and you got。
fired or you lost your job or you were made redundant or something, and that's sitting。
heavy on you.。
Perhaps it's a financial decision.。
You made an investment in something and that investment didn't work out.。
You put it all in and it didn't come through.。
And that still stings and you're still embarrassed about that.。
And you feel like you hurt your loved ones because you made a choice that didn't work。
out, that it failed.。
I think we all can connect with Samuel in some way, can't we?。
God shows up to Samuel in this place of hurt, disappointment, regret, shame, and failure.。
And he speaks to him some words that if you're feeling anything like what Samuel was feeling。
in that moment, I think God's saying these words over you today, because these words。
change everything for Samuel.。
And as I unpack them for you now, I pray that they will change everything for you and that。
you will be able to start 2025 walking forward.。
Let me read this to you from 1 Samuel, starting in verse, chapter 15, starting in verse 34.。
And I'm just going to read a few verses.。
Then Samuel left for Ramah, but Saul went up to his home in Gebeah of Saul.。
For the day Samuel died, he did not go to see Saul again, though Samuel mourned for。
him.。
And the Lord was grieved that he had made Saul king over Israel.。
The Lord said to Samuel, "How long will you mourn for Saul, since I have rejected him。
as king over Israel?。
Fill your horn with oil and be on your way, for I'm sending you now to Jesse of Bethlehem,。
for I have chosen one of his sons to be king."。
So I want you to picture this.。
Samuel was in a place of hurt, disappointment, reject, shame, and failure.。
He's right at the end of his life and he thinks his life is done.。
Everything's done.。
And he's mourning, grieving, hurting for all the things that have just happened at the。
end of his life.。
And God shows up and says these words.。
Let me read this again.。
"How long will you mourn for Saul?"。
I want you to see a couple of things here.。
Notice what God doesn't say.。
God does not say, "Why are you mourning for Saul?"。
He says, "How long will you mourn for Saul?"。
It's a subtle but very important difference.。
Could you imagine if you were Samuel and you're feeling the worst that you've ever felt in。
your life?。
You're feeling a failure, you're burnt out, you're feeling like what you've just done。
just didn't work out.。
And God shows up and says, "Why?。
Why are you feeling that way?"。
Can you imagine how that would feel?。
I mean, that would be a bit weird, wouldn't it?。
God was saying, "Why are you doing that?。
Why would you do that?。
You shouldn't do that.。
I've given up on that one.。
I gave up on him way ago.。
I've rejected him.。
Come on.。
Why are you feeling this way?"。
It's so beautiful to me that God doesn't show up to Samuel and say, "Why are you feeling。
this way?"。
Instead, he shows up to him and goes, "I understand why you're feeling this way.。
Like I totally get it.。
You're in a place of mourning.。
I'm not asking you why you're in a place of mourning because I know you're human and you've。
just gone through something that was really hard and you feel the shame and you feel the。
embarrassment and you feel the brokenness and I get it, you're mourning."。
And I think it's beautiful because in God saying, "How long will you mourn?"。
Notice God is giving him space to mourn.。
He's giving him space to wrestle with that feeling.。
He's giving him a space to process what has happened to him.。
He's not expecting him to get immediately better.。
How long will you mourn saying, basically, "There's a place for mourning."。
Hear this, church.。
"There's a place for mourning.。
There's a place to wrestle with the brokenness, to wrestle with the things that we've done。
that we're not proud of.。
There's a place to bring our sin before the Lord and not to have to walk in the brokenness。
anymore.。
There's a place to receive the forgiveness and the healing and the restoration.。
There's a place for mourning."。
This is why we have the Psalms in the Scriptures because the Psalms are the beautiful poetic。
voice of Israel saying, "Hey, it's okay.。
We feel this way, God.。
We feel this way, but we're going to trust.。
We know that you're still for us even though it feels like you're a long, long way away。
from us, even though you've kind of forsaken us."。
The Psalms are this beautiful, honest reflection of God's people crying out and saying, "We're。
hurting.。
This is not easy.。
This is a painful experience."。
And God is saying, "There's space for that."。
Jesus himself in Matthew 5, 4, in the Sermon on the Mount, he says these beautiful words.。
He says, "Blessed are those who are mourned for they will be comforted."。
Blessed are those who mourn.。
Blessed are those that process the hurt and the feelings in them.。
For I, here's my promise to them, I promise I will comfort them.。
I promise my spirit will be there for them.。
I promise they will not go through it alone.。
That's the wonderful heart of God.。
And so I want to say this to some of you in this room.。
Some of you here are in a season of mourning.。
And I want to say that's absolutely good.。
That's fine.。
In fact, your season of mourning is your greatest opportunity to receive the comfort of the。
presence of Jesus.。
And so if you're in a season of mourning in this room, our prayer for you is that we will。
be with you.。
We'll stand with you.。
We'll be the support to you.。
We will pray for you and we will hope that the comfort of Christ will be known in your。
life.。
We'll journey with you forever, however long it takes.。
If you're mourning here, we love you and we're here for you.。
Are you with me?。
I don't want you to hear anything else if that's your season right now.。
The only thing I want you to take away from today is that God will comfort you.。
Jesus will comfort you.。
And we as a church, we're here for you.。
But I want you to see this.。
By God coming to Samuel and saying, "How long are you going to mourn?"。
God understands something that Samuel needed to understand.。
And it's really important that at some point, mourning has to finish for new life to begin.。
Come on church.。
At some point, mourning has to stop for new life to begin.。
I don't know how you sleep at night.。
Let me explain.。
We're going to get intimate now.。
I'm going to explain to you how I sleep at night.。
When I sleep at night, I sleep with my arms under the pillow.。
Anyone ever do that?。
Like you put your arms under your pillow, whether two arms or one arm.。
I like to sleep with one arm under my pillow.。
Now the problem with that is about twice a night, I will wake up in the middle of the。
night and I've been leaning my whole body weight on one arm.。
And that means that arm is now dead.。
Like all the blood has been pushed out of that arm.。
You ever had like a dead arm, right?。
And if you're leaning on it and your arm is dead, the funny thing is you can't kind of。
move because you can't push off.。
So you have to get your other hand and sort of push off the mattress.。
And then your hand just sort of stays there and then you've got to grab it and it sort。
of flops like this because there's no blood in it.。
And then you move on to your other side and about two hours later you wake up and that。
arm's dead, right?。
This is like a repetitive thing in my life.。
When God comes to Samuel and says, "How long are you going to mourn?"。
He's basically saying we do this with ourselves spiritually.。
We do this with ourselves emotionally.。
When we hold on to the mourning of something for too long, it's like that thing remains。
dead.。
You remain dead.。
And for new life to come, you have to let go at some point.。
You have to move forward at some point.。
And he comes to Samuel and says, "How long are you going to mourn?"。
Which is actually an invitation for Samuel to both mourn, yes, but also to realize that。
at some point that's going to have to stop and that God will be there for him.。
And when God is there for him, things will begin to change.。
Some of you in this room, you're struggling to find a new relationship in your life because。
you're still holding on to the old one that's long been dead.。
Some of you are struggling to find that job that's your career job that you'd love to。
do because you're hanging on to the old job out of fear of a lack of security for the。
future.。
And you're holding on to the job you hate and that's keeping you from the job you really。
want to receive or what it might be in any area of our lives.。
But we can all go through this.。
And I want you to see something that's happening here.。
When God says to Samuel, "How long are you going to mourn?"。
Here's essentially what's happening for Samuel.。
Samuel is so consumed to the mourning of his past that he is ignorant.。
He's blind to the importance of his future.。
I want you to see this because this is what happens for all of us in these five emotional。
barriers.。
He's so consumed by the past that he's blind to the importance of his future.。
He thinks he has no future.。
He thinks his story is done.。
I anointed one and he failed.。
That's my postscript.。
I'm leaving this world with that.。
I am done.。
And God says, "You don't understand Samuel, but you are standing in this moment right。
in the most significant moment of human history."。
Samuel has no idea the importance of what's ahead of him, but God knows.。
And because God sees what is just ahead of Samuel, he says, "How long are you going to。
mourn?"。
Samuel's thinking, "Hang on a sec.。
Everything's done for me."。
And God's saying, "You can't see what it is that I'm about to do for you."。
Think about this.。
Samuel, and we're going to see this next week, Samuel is about to go and anoint, he's about。
to pour oil over David.。
David, who would become the starting point of the Davidic dynasty that Jewish people。
and Christians believe, or Jewish people believe will come eventually for a Messiah, Christians。
believe came in Jesus.。
Samuel is about to pour oil over the very one who will start the bloodline that will。
bring Jesus Christ.。
Get your head around that.。
Samuel is about to start the process for Jesus.。
He has no idea.。
He has no idea that he's standing at the most critical moment of human history because he's。
so blinded by the hurt, disappointment, shame, regret, and failure.。
But God sees.。
I want you to see this church.。
God sees.。
God sees David.。
God sees the bloodline.。
God sees Jesus.。
And God sees Jesus' life and ministry and miracles and teaching.。
He sees his death on the cross and the horror of that.。
And the importance of that for liberation for sin.。
He sees his resurrection and the filling of the Holy Spirit upon him.。
He sees him gathering disciples and giving them the great commission.。
He sees them receiving the Holy Spirit in the upper room.。
He sees them begin the church with their own sweat and blood.。
Some of them martyred for their faith.。
He sees over 2000 years, the church grow in history.。
He even sees the first Sunday of 2025 and you sitting at the vine, hearing the message。
right now.。
He sees all of that.。
And because of the worth and the value of all of that, he comes to Samuel and he says,。
"How long?。
How long?。
How long are you going to mourn because Jesus is coming?"。
It's really important.。
I think that we all hear this.。
Some of us have Davids right up and ahead of us in our future, but we're in danger of。
failing to receive them because we're still holding onto our souls.。
Which soul as you start 2025, are you holding onto that is blinding you to the wonder of。
what the Lord wants to do in you?。
The David that's there, your dream job, a new relationship, maybe a goal that you've。
longed had for.。
Maybe that moment of life that you've been dreaming and praying for, that budding of。
the bamboo shoot that's going to come out of the ground.。
It's right there in front of you.。
He sees it.。
And he says, "How long are you going to mourn?"。
How do we then respond to this?。
Well, notice what he says to Samuel chapter 16, verse one.。
He says, "The Lord said to Samuel, 'How long will you mourn for Saul since I've rejected。
him as king over Israel?。
Fill your horn with oil and be on your way.'"。
Isn't that a beautiful thing?。
See Samuel thought it was all over.。
My last act as a judge was to pour oil over Saul.。
What a mistake that was.。
I'm never doing that again.。
Oh, I don't want to take the risk of that again.。
Oh, if I step out and try that again, oh man, that's going to fail.。
I did that once and it sucked.。
It sucked so hard because God's heart was grieved.。
My heart was grieved.。
I hurt, shame, disappointment, failure.。
Why would I ever bother to do that again?。
You could imagine Samuel thinking.。
And God says, "Have the courage, Samuel, to pick up your horn, fill it with oil and be。
on your way."。
In other words, here's what Samuel hears.。
I love this.。
Samuel hears God say to him, "I am not done with you yet."。
Come on, church.。
"I'm not done with you yet.。
Who told you I was finished with you?。
You told yourself that.。
You let the hurt, shame, disappointment, regret, frame, failure all tell you that.。
I never told you that.。
I never said your life was over.。
I never said you were too old.。
That was Israel who said that to you.。
I never said that you were a failure.。
None of those words ever came from me.。
Here's what I'm saying to you.。
Pick up your horn because I'm not done with you yet.。
Because there's something you're about to do that will be a legacy for the whole of。
the human race.。
Grab your horn, he says.。
And here's what I want to say to some of you this morning.。
Pick up your horn.。
Pick up your horn.。
For Samuel, it was a literal horn.。
For you, it's not a literal horn.。
That would be weird.。
But the horn was a symbol for Samuel of what he had been called to do.。
What's that tool for you?。
What have you been called to do?。
For some of you, that's your work.。
That's your business.。
Grab a hold of it like never before.。
Some of you, that's the ability to pray.。
Pray like never before.。
Some of you, that's a gift or a talent to communicate.。
Pray like you've never done before.。
For some of you, it might be whatever it is.。
Whatever God has put on your heart, whatever talent or gift, whatever tool he has given。
you to be able to share the gospel, and he's given it to every single person, grab your。
horn.。
Don't allow shame, regret, failure, disappointment, and hurt define your future.。
He is not done with you yet.。
Come on, church.。
He's not done with you yet.。
There's so much more ahead for you.。
So much more ahead for me.。
I'm turning 50.。
Oh, I feel like he's done with me.。
I'm turning 50 in a month.。
Oh, Lord Jesus.。
Yeah.。
The eldest came to me the other day.。
"Andrew, you are very old," they said.。
Just kidding.。
The eldest didn't say that.。
He's not done with me yet.。
Honestly, I'm preaching to myself.。
I feel a bit emotional right now.。
I'm preaching to myself.。
He's not done with me yet.。
He's not done with you.。
How old you are in this room?。
50 is not old.。
There might be some older people here watching online.。
I see you, John.。
I love you.。
He's not done with you yet.。
Amen?。
Now, notice this.。
He says, sorry, I'm going to finish soon.。
He says here, he says, "Fill your horn with oil."。
I love this.。
He doesn't say, "Fill your horn with your own strength.。
Fill your horn with just your good news or your good works."。
He doesn't say, "Fill the horn with your talent."。
He said, "Fill it with my oil.。
Fill it with the oil of the Holy Spirit."。
It's only Jesus that brings our dead tools to life.。
It's only Jesus that takes those talents and uses them to do something in the kingdom.。
Remember, it's him who changes the world.。
We're just empty, broken vessels.。
But when the oil of the Holy Spirit comes on us, we are able to do like the disciples。
did in that upper room, things that they never thought they would ever be able to do.。
Think changes and transforms when you're filled with Jesus.。
Notice this.。
When sin happened in Genesis 3, all of humanity was brought into a place of brokenness and。
the whole of creation was.。
And the Bible describes it like this, that all of creation has been mourning.。
And Jesus is described to us through the Old Testament as the horn of our salvation.。
In other words, Jesus is the vessel that God decided to choose to pour out on humanity.。
The one who has decided to bring hope and freedom and life to broken, sinful humanity.。
Jesus is the horn of our salvation.。
And so if there's anyone that we come to, to receive the oil from, to receive the Spirit。
of God from, surely it's Christ.。
It has to be Christ.。
It's only Christ.。
He is the horn that God has provided that is poured out over you.。
So when he says, "Pick up your horn," he's like, "I've already picked up mine.。
My horn went to the cross for you, rose from the dead for you, forgives your sins for you.。
You are forgiven."。
That doesn't mean you're going to have this perfect, sunny, shiny life all the time, but。
it means that even in mourning, you are comforted.。
Amen?。
Even in the hurt, disappointment, shame, regret, and failure, that is not the end of your story.。
I am there with you and I will walk you into the new thing that I have for you.。
2025 will be your most significant year yet.。
Because he would say over to you, "I am not done with you.。
Do not allow the soul to stop you from the David.。
How long will you mourn?"。
I wonder whether you close your eyes with me and I want to just pray and we're going。
to make some space.。
We've got plenty of time.。
So we've designed the service today specifically to give us more time.。
And as your eyes are closed, I want to just explain in a moment, we're going to invite。
you to come forward for communion.。
Now just keep your eyes closed, but let me explain.。
In a moment, we're going to invite you to come forward for communion.。
Normally here at the Vine, we pass communion out to you and you receive it that way.。
But today we want you to be active.。
We want you to take action.。
Want you to be in the prophetic side of this word.。
And so we want you to come forward.。
So there's going to be four stations in the front here.。
There's two on either sides in the lower house as well.。
Upstairs is two at the front and two at the back.。
And in a moment, you'll be invited in your own time when you're ready to come and receive。
communion from one of our leaders or elders here.。
And we will bless you as you receive the communion.。
Then you can take it back and you can take communion in your chair with your friends,。
family, whoever you're here with, or if you're on your own, you can take it on your own.。
But before you come forward for communion, we want to give you space to receive what。
the Holy Spirit has for you.。
In some ways today, the communion is the coming forward after we felt like the Lord has ministered。
to us.。
And so we're going to create some space for you now to receive the ministry of the Holy。
Spirit.。
It's the most important part of our service.。
And I want to encourage that in a couple of ways.。
Maybe something I've shared today.。
Maybe you recognize that hurt, disappointment, shame, regret, and failure has dominated your。
thinking too much.。
Maybe you recognize that you're holding onto a soul.。
Maybe you feel like you're not worthy of a David.。
And maybe you're entering 2025 locked and anchored and tethered into the past when the。
Lord says, "This is going to be your most significant year yet."。
But if you're anything like me, hurt, disappointment, regret, shame, failure, those are powerful。
things.。
And when the Lord said to Samuel, "Fill your home with oil," what he's basically saying。
to you is, "How long will you go before you invite my Holy Spirit into that part of your。
life?。
How long will you go until you invite my Spirit into the hurt, into the disappointment, into。
the regret and the shame and the failure?。
For I'm here and I will comfort those who mourn."。
Maybe for some of you, you've been carrying around those five things so much because you。
haven't had the courage to invite the Spirit in.。
Maybe it's been too painful to invite the Spirit in.。
I want to encourage you to be brave at the start of this year.。
And so in this ministry time before you come for communion, you can just take your time。
to invite Him into those areas.。
Ask Him to help you to let go of your soul.。
Ask Him to show you what He sees about your future, how much He loves you, how much He's。
prepared that's just ahead of you, how He doesn't want the hurt and the shame and the。
regret and failure to dominate your thinking and your vision.。
If you're here with family and friends and you want someone to pray for you, just invite。
them to pray for you in a moment.。
Just reach out and say, "Hey, would you pray for me?。
That's an important word for me today.。
I need to respond.。
Would you just help me and pray?"。
And so whilst we're all being ministered to and prayed for in your own time when you're。
ready, you can then come forward to receive communion as a way of culminating perhaps。
what it is that the Spirit of God is doing in you.。
We have about 15 minutes for this, so there's no need to rush.。
So Lord Jesus, I pray for each person here.。
If you'd like to receive this prayer, just open your hands as I pray.。
Holy Spirit, Father, we're grateful.。
We're grateful that we're standing on the precipice of 2025, the most significant year。
of our lives.。
We're thankful that you are a forward-moving God.。
But Father, we recognize that we carry hurt and disappointment, that regret and shame。
and failure are part of our story and sometimes are too much a part of our story.。
Father, would you come?。
Would you minister to me right now in this place?。
Would you enable my spirit to say to you, "You are not done with me?。
Thank you, Lord, that you're not done with me.。
Thank you that I have not disqualified myself.。
Thank you, Lord, that I'm still on plan A. I may not have all the answers.。
I may still struggle with the trauma of what it is I've been going through, but Lord, thank。
you that you forgive, redeem, renew, restore, that this will be my most significant year."。
So I'm just going to invite the elders and pastors to come and just be at the stations。
now.。
But I want to invite you to take your time.。
Pray with the person next to you if you want to pray.。
Just receive more of the Holy Spirit if that's what you want.。
Weep if you want to weep.。
This is a safe place.。
And in a moment, when it's right, we'll respond together in worship.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
