Hi guys, good morning everybody. My name is Jackie and this is my youth mentor, Alson.。
And today's scripture we're going to read from Matthew chapter 2, verse 3 to 8.。
Now, when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king,。
behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem.。
When Herod the king had heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.。
When king Herod heard this, he was disturbed, and all Jerusalem with him.。
When he had called together all the people's chief priests and teachers of the law,。
he asked them where the Messiah was to be born.。
Then Herod called the Magi secretly and found out from them the exact time the star had appeared.。
He sent them to Bethlehem and said, "Go and search carefully for the child.。
As soon as you find him, report to him so that I too may go and worship him."。
Now I will lead us to a prayer.。
Lord, as we light this candle of hope and anticipation for the time when you will make all things right,。
Lord, help us to make room in our hearts for what you have to say to us.。
Thank you, Jesus. In the name of Jesus, I pray. Amen.。
[Applause]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
The first candle that is lit for Advent is a singular candle.。
It's a small flame that flickers amongst great darkness.。
And in many ways, that's very beautifully fitting for the Advent story itself.。
You have in the one singular flame this idea of, I think, what the gospel is all about.。
This subtle, quiet, and yet immovable power of God to break hope into an empire of darkness.。
When you light a single candle in a dark room, it transforms that room.。
Such a small thing bringing such hope within such largeness around it.。
And in many ways, this is very fitting to how the gospel writers brings us the story of Jesus' birth.。
Unlike how I think we often think of it, or at least how we celebrate it in our modern era.。
The gospel writers do not provide a huge amount of fanfare.。
They're not providing like this great joy and this great light, smokes, and mirrors to celebrate the arrival of Jesus.。
In fact, the gospel writers present to us a pretty bleak picture.。
They situate the arrival of the Messiah, of the one true King, right in the midst of all the darkness.。
They show us, indeed, the need that the Jewish people had.。
That they were crying out for God to step in and liberate them.。
Liberate them from the brutality of empire, from the grip of oppression,。
and from perhaps the thing that can impact people the most, the abuse of human power.。
This is how we come to see that gospel story.。
In fact, one of the most central stories or central moments of the Advent season。
situates us in that idea of this great darkness around us.。
Luke, when he's presenting the story, starts by explaining that a census is put out by Caesar Augustus。
for the whole of the Roman Empire.。
History tells us that this took place in 6 BC.。
And it shows right away the kind of environment that the Jewish people were under at the time.。
This census was incredibly disruptive.。
It meant that every citizen had to leave where it was that they were living at the time。
and return back to where the male husband or the male leader or the oldest male of the family was from.。
And so the family would have to follow the male side and go to their hometown.。
So this was already a sense of power in the Greek or Roman Empire.。
Like, "We're going to make this census. We're going to make this decree.。
And you, regardless of how you're feeling, are going to have to uproot yourself from where you are.。
And you're going to have to return with your family back to your home place, the place that you yourself was born."。
This is the backdrop to what causes Joseph and Mary to have to uproot themselves。
from their safety of their home in Nazareth and travel the 145 kilometers south。
down to his birthplace of Bethlehem.。
That journey was long.。
It was arduous. It was dangerous.。
They actually had to go around Samaria because it was too dangerous to travel through Samaria itself.。
And then add to the reality that Mary's doing this journey heavily pregnant.。
And as you're reading this and as you're picking up the vibes that Luke is providing for us in the story,。
that this is oppressive, number one, that this is dangerous, number two,。
that poor Mary has to do this in the state that she's in,。
you read it and you come to think, "Well, at least they're going to get to Bethlehem and everything's going to be okay."。
Like, at least once they get there, they're going to be amongst Joseph's family.。
That surely the relatives of Joseph in Bethlehem will open their doors and welcome them in。
and everything will start to be okay.。
And we know the story, don't we?。
That Joseph and Mary arrive in Bethlehem after this long journey,。
which would have taken about three weeks and nobody in Bethlehem opened their doors for them.。
It was almost as if the relatives of Joseph wanted nothing to do with an unmarried pregnant girl.。
And so they're forced to go into the only place where they could find shelter,。
which were what we call a stable.。
But I've actually been to Bethlehem.。
If you go to Bethlehem these days, you can actually visit some of these places.。
They were literally like caves under the homes at the time.。
And you would go into those caves, and those caves would be where the animals were sheltered at nighttime.。
And so Mary and Joseph are forced to go into that very place,。
the place where we would think would be the last place that God might want the arrival of His Son.。
One of my favorite paintings on this nativity scene is done by a painter called Edward Stott.。
And he painted it in 1935.。
Let me show you this painting.。
This is one of my favorite paintings of the Christmas story.。
But you might look at it and go, "Really, Andrew? That's a pretty boring painting."。
Most of that painting is just dark.。
But what I love about this painting is this is not the Hallmark Christmas card kind of Christmas。
that I think we get used to in our modern time.。
This is actually what it would have been like in the first century.。
I mean, I want you to sit for a moment in the reality of the darkness that is here,。
of the oppressive feel that this painting brings.。
There are other figures in the painting, but you can't really see them very well.。
It's dark, and it's gloomy, and it's damp, and it's lonely.。
If you see the actual real painting, it's a lot darker than this reproduction.。
But the painting is gloomy because that's what it was like in that moment.。
And I love what Stott's done here in the painting.。
He's only highlighted in the light two people, which happens to be Mary and her baby Jesus.。
And it's almost like the painter is saying this.。
There's this darkness and this gloom all around us, but there is a singular hope.。
It's like he's trying to draw us into the very place that despite the reality of darkness in this world,。
there has come one who can bring hope,。
which is a very important message for us in our city this week。
as we sit in the reality of the hurt and the pain and the brokenness of our world。
very freshly for us here in Hong Kong.。
We're drawn towards this one singular person of hope,。
almost as if this painting is like a singular Advent candle lit on the first Sunday of the season,。
bringing light to the darkness all around it.。
I love the way that Luke actually opens up for us this very nativity scene.。
Let me read this to you from Luke 2, verses 6 and 7.。
He says, "While Mary and Joseph were still there in Bethlehem, the time came for the baby to be born.。
And she gave birth to him, her firstborn son.。
She wrapped him in a cloth and placed him in a manger because there was no room for them in the inn."。
This phrase, "There was no room for them in the inn,"。
has become perhaps the most central phrase in the whole of the Christmas story.。
I mean, you ask any kid about Christmas and what they know of their story,。
they'll probably tell you there was no room for Mary and Joseph, and they had to go to the stable.。
And this idea of no room being in the inn becomes one of the most central points of the story。
and one that should deeply challenge us.。
I mean, again, put yourself in the dirty, dusty sandals of Joseph and Mary for a moment.。
I mean, for Mary, I'm sure she had ideas of where she wanted her son to be born into the world,。
but I'm sure she never would have chosen a dark, damp cave that stunk of animals.。
Them being in that situation was a surprise to them, but note this, church, it was not a surprise to God.。
In fact, if you step back for a moment, this actually opens up for us something really important.。
That God ordained the birth of His Son, the birth of our Messiah,。
the birth of the King of Kings, our eternal King, not in a palace adorned with beauty,。
not an amazing home that was prepared for Him,。
not from parents who were occupying the corridors of power at the time.。
No, Jesus is born into the darkness of a stable, and God says that place is fit for a king.。
Which is a beautiful thing, because right here at the beginning of the Advent story,。
I think we get the whole of the gospel presented to us.。
For if Jesus could be born into the darkness of a stable,。
maybe He could also be born in the darkness of our hearts.。
And that part of the gospel story sits true for all of us and welcomes us into it.。
For Jesus has indeed come, and He's come to the darkness of a stable。
to show us that there is no place where this King is not willing to associate Himself.。
That there's no place where this King cannot step into the brokenness and the darkness。
and the sin and the evil of this world and be made glorified.。
Jesus has indeed come.。
The question, though, is have we made room in our hearts to receive Him?。
Or perhaps another way of saying it is, is there actually room in our inn?。
Now, for us as Christians, we think about this primarily from the perspective of salvation.。
That ultimately what we want is to open our hearts to a relationship with Jesus.。
To recognize that He forgives sin, and in the midst of that, find salvation in our lives.。
What a joy it is to know a Savior like that.。
And absolutely, the Advent message and what Jesus would go on and do in His life,。
death and resurrection, provides for us that beautiful idea that if we make space in our heart for Him,。
we will come into eternal life in salvation with Him.。
But I think there's something else at play here as well.。
You see, I think this challenge that Advent brings us is not just a challenge for us Christians。
about the place of salvation and that moment where we accept Jesus as our Savior.。
It's also a challenge as to whether we are living out our discipleship with Him。
in ways that enable more and more of Jesus to have kingship in our lives.。
Our question, I think, as Christians, if you're a Christian here in this room,。
is are you ongoing making room in your life for Jesus?。
Are you making more and more room for the King to rule and to be who He wants to be in your life?。
This is the very invitation of discipleship.。
Discipleship is the very thing of saying there's still some stuff in my heart.。
There's still some stuff in my thinking.。
There's still some stuff in my flesh that is bound to sin that I want to deal with,。
that I want to remove, that I want to release,。
so that I can welcome in more of the reign of the kingdom of God in my life.。
Here at the mine, our vision is growing big people.。
It's a discipleship vision. We get it from Ephesians 4,。
where Paul writes to the church and he says,。
"Here's my prayer for you, that you would come to attain to the whole measure。
of the wholeness of Christ, which challenges me.。
Do I have the whole measure of the wholeness of Christ in me,。
or is my inn so full of other things that Jesus is relegated to the stable of my life?"。
It's a challenging thought.。
But it's one that I think sobers us at a time like this in Advent.。
What is it that I might need to remove from my life to be able to make room more for Jesus?。
At Christmas time, could it be that one of the ways that we truly receive the king。
is by first dethroning all of the others?。
Come on, church.。
Could it be that we are called to receive our king,。
and yet first we must dethrone the other kings that still rule and reign within us?。
This is the challenge that we're going to be bringing you every week。
of our Advent series over the next four Sundays.。
We're actually going to take a look at a different character in the Advent story。
and show their perspective, and from their perspective,。
help us to see maybe some of those kings that we hold on to,。
that causes us not to have that room for the true king to reign.。
For here's the reality.。
In order to enthrone Jesus in your life, you will first need to dethrone everything else.。
Today, I want to start that journey with you by taking you to one of the characters。
of the Christmas story that we don't talk about very often.。
One of the characters that actually has a prominent place in the story,。
but is kind of in the background as Matthew presents it to us.。
But when we see this character and we understand them,。
it actually says some pretty deep things to what might be blocking。
or occupying our hearts and stopping Jesus from being with us.。
So I want to take us to Matthew, and I want to read to you a bit of his story,。
his presentation of the birth of Jesus.。
This is Matthew 2, starting in verse 1.。
After Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea, during the time of King Herod,。
Magi from the east came to Jerusalem and asked,。
"Where is the one who has been born King of the Jews?。
For we saw his star in the east, and we have come to worship him."。
When King Herod heard this, he was disturbed, and all of Jerusalem with him.。
When he called together all of the people's chief priests and the teachers of the law,。
he asked them, "Where the Christ and the Messiah was to be born?"。
"Oh, in Bethlehem in Judea," they replied,。
"because this is what the prophet has written," and then they quote from Micah 5, verse 2.。
"But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judea, are by no means the least amongst the rulers of Judea.。
For out of you will come a ruler who will be the shepherd of my people Israel."。
Then Herod called the Magi secretly and found out from them the exact time when the star had appeared.。
He sent them to Bethlehem, and he said this,。
"Oh, go and make careful search for this child.。
As soon as you find him, report to me so that I too may go and worship him."。
Yeah, no.。
After they had heard the king, they went on their way,。
and the star that they had seen stopped over the place where the child was.。
When they saw the star, they were overjoyed.。
On coming to the house, they saw the child with his mother Mary,。
and they bowed down and worshipped him.。
Then they opened their treasures and presented him with gifts of gold and incense and myrrh.。
And having been warned in a dream not to return to Herod,。
they returned to their country by another route.。
Jump down to verse 16.。
"When Herod realized that he had been outwitted by the Magi, he was furious,。
and he gave orders to kill all the boys in Bethlehem and its vicinity who were two years old and under.。
In accordance with the time that he had learned from the Magi,。
then what was said through the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled.。
A voice is heard in Ramah, weeping and great mourning,。
Rachel weeping for her children and refusing to be comforted because they are no more."。
This is not a Hallmark Christmas card special.。
I mean, this story is pretty full on.。
It's a story of power gone wrong.。
It's a story of oppression and jealousy.。
And it's the story of death right alongside of life.。
And right in the center of this story is a character that Matthew introduced us to, King Herod.。
Herod is not mentioned a lot in the New Testament,。
but in this moment he takes a place within this story of the birth of Jesus.。
History tells us some very important things about King Herod.。
King Herod was a Gentile by background.。
His mother was an Edomite and his father was an Arab.。
But he, in about 40 BC, the Roman Senate decreed that he would become the ruler over Judea.。
And actually this took place, he took power in 37 BC.。
Now in 37 BC, he actually came into Jerusalem, took siege of the city,。
used armies, killed many, took over power by violence.。
And he established for himself a rule and a reign within these people.。
History tells us that he was both a brilliant but a ruthless leader.。
On one side, Herod brought a lot of prosperity to Judea in his reign.。
He was really into building projects and he built many things in those days,。
including actually the rebuilding of the temple that was lying there not fully rebuilt.。
He rebuilt the temple so that the temple in Jesus' day was actually known as Herod's temple.。
But he also rebuilt and built lots of other things around Jerusalem, aqueducts to bring waters to the various villages around it.。
He actually brought a lot of prosperity to the city, but that prosperity came at a cost.。
He was ruthless and he controlled his environment with a tight grip.。
One of the things that history tells us about him is that he was a paranoid man when it came to power.。
And he constantly thought that everybody around him was trying to take power from him.。
And the last thing he wanted to do was to let go of control, let go of power, and lose his prestige.。
This got so bad for Herod that he came to believe that his own family was trying to plot to overthrow him.。
And history tells us that even though he loved his wife, he killed his wife, he killed her mother, his mother-in-law,。
and then he ends up killing three of his sons because he thinks they're going to overthrow his power.。
This leads to Caesar Augustus writing in one of his writings quite a little funny quote.。
He says this, he says, "It would be better to be one of Herod's pigs than one of his sons."。
But alongside of this comes the reason why he was so ruthless and paranoid.。
His whole identity was built on this phrase, "I am the king of the Jews."。
In almost every correspondence that Herod sent out, he would sign it, "King of the Jews" or "King of Judea."。
He made himself a de facto king over those people.。
And he did that through the kind of bloody violence that we often see is taken place by those that have authoritarian rule over the people under them.。
And Herod really pitches that for us in a bloody, horrible way.。
And as Matthew describes this person and brings him into the biblical story of Jesus' birth,。
this is the background he's bringing to us, this idea of his paranoia, of his jealousy,。
and of his desire to squash all attempts at taking power from him.。
So he actually says right at the start, when the Magi show up, they say this word.。
They say, "Where is the one who has been born?" Notice this, "King of the Jews."。
Can you imagine how offensive that would be to Herod, who self-titled himself the "King of the Jews"?。
Now these Magi are saying, "There are people in Judea who are saying that there is another one that's been born who holds this title, 'King of the Jews.'"。
It says in verse 3, "When King Herod heard this, he was disturbed."。
The Greek word there means literally, "Filled with violent anger and pain from within."。
This totally wrecked his world from within because this was suddenly a threat to his power.。
And so he tells the Magi, he finds out from the chief priests and the rulers of the law where this Messiah would be born,。
Bethlehem, they say, quoting Micah 5.2.。
He then pulls the Magi together and he says, "Look, go find him. Let me know because I want to go and offer my worship to him as well."。
And the Magi have no idea that actually Herod has this anger and this violence within him.。
They don't know that he wants to harm the child.。
So they go off thinking that they're going to do what the king has asked them to do.。
But God steps in as God has done every step of the way.。
And God brings a dream to the Magi and says, "Don't go back to Herod for he only wants bad for this child.。
You need to return to your country another way."。
When Herod finds out about this, notice the word it says. It says, "He was furious," which in the Greek means furious.。
He was so angry that this has happened that he decides to do one of the most horrible things that are recorded for us in the whole of the New Testament.。
His anger and his jealousy and the threat to his power is so overwhelming for him that he actually asks for his subjects to kill the children of Bethlehem and its vicinity.。
Anyone under the age of two years old to be put to death.。
And there is this thing that history has called the massacre of innocence.。
And this massacre actually took place.。
This is true, real history that those under the age of two in Bethlehem were killed.。
And I want you to see what's happening here in our Christmas birth Jesus story.。
That when God steps into the world with this incredible moment where He brings hope and life in the presence of Jesus, notice what happens.。
Immediately there is a battle. There is a fight back from sin and evil and brokenness.。
And so right at the beginning of Jesus' story, you have the hope of God in the person of Christ and you have evil fighting back with death.。
And life and death sit side by side.。
Worship and weeping happen in Rama and Bethlehem.。
And what happens with Herod is really just the beginning of everything that is going to take place that will ultimately lead Jesus to death on a Roman cross.。
That there is a spiritual battle at work in this world between the goodness of God and the evil that is present here.。
And what we see in this character of Herod is the worst of what evil does when it is given control and power in human ways.。
And when we sit and we realize all of this, we come to realize that that battle between good and evil,。
it's not just at war in the world around us, but if we're honest, it's at war within us too.。
If we're honest about it, we would recognize that although it might look different for every single person in this room,。
all of us have to wrestle with a spirit of Herod within us.。
In the sin in which we grapple with and in the evil that is present in this world,。
many of us can recognize that what we see in Herod we can sometimes unfortunately see in ourselves.。
Matthew paints a picture for us of a man who cannot make room for Jesus because of the threat Jesus was to his own power, his own control, and his own prestige.。
And as much as we probably don't want to think about it, and to be honest, we'd look at a character like Herod and say,。
"Well, I would never want to be like that."。
I think the reality is for all of us that we struggle to some degree with maybe not always wanting to make room, more room for Jesus.。
Because we recognize in order to do so, we would have to submit a little bit more of our power, of our control, and our prestige.。
And when we sit in that reality, we soberly come to think of discipleship like this,。
that maybe we do want more of Jesus, but we recognize the submission that it will require.。
We recognize the sin that it will need for us to deal with.。
We recognize those broken parts of our personality that we might finally need to address.。
And when we see that, we count the cost, and we decide that Jesus is happy in the stable.。
See, we have to recognize that it's easy to have a Savior, but it's a lot harder to have a Lord.。
Jesus died on the cross so that you wouldn't just know a Savior, but that you would also have a Lord, that you would have a King that you submit yourself to.。
You know, salvation is easy, but discipleship requires framing through obedience.。
And obedience will require a cost, will come with your choices, will come with the decisions that you'll make to sacrifice and lay down and remove and to repent and to come before the Lord in the many ways you...。
Discipleship is a process of obedience before the movement of the Holy Spirit in our lives.。
But like Herod, we can desire to want to hold on to our power, hold on to our control, hold on to our prestige,。
rather than lay those down, pick up the cross and truly follow Him.。
When we wrestle with this, I think we come to realize something that's truly profound.。
That it's really hard to make room for a King when you currently see yourself as one.。
Come on, church.。
It's really hard to make room for a King when you currently see yourself as one.。
Could it be that the first King that needs to be laid down by all of us is actually ourselves?。
And in discipleship, I recognize that the Lord is not done with me yet, but I need to be done with me.。
I need to be done with my selfish ambition and pride.。
I need to be done with the fact that I like power and power can be quite seductive in my life.。
I need to be done with the reality that I do like to control as a leader at times.。
And sometimes it's easier to control others than to submit to their wills.。
I have to wrestle deeply with myself personally for some of the Herod thinking and living that I know is at work within me.。
And I wonder whether that might be not an easy but honest invitation for you at the start of Advent in 2025.。
Could be the King that you need to lay down is actually yourself.。
You will never be able to make more room for Jesus when you are the King that you're currently worshiping.。
Come on church, you're never going to make more room for Jesus when you're the King that you're currently worshiping.。
This is why I love what Matthew does in the presentation here because he doesn't just show us Herod, but he also shows us the Magi.。
Now the Magi are fascinating because the Magi are also people of power, control, and prestige.。
And I think what Matthew does so beautifully and subtly here is he compares Herod's reaction to the birth of Jesus to the Magi's reaction.。
Because like Herod, the Magi's were powerful.。
People all around the land looked to them for direction and guidance and leadership.。
Like Herod, he had control over his people, so the Magi had great control over the people that submitted themselves to them.。
But unlike Herod, the Magi realized that in the birth of Jesus, this King of the Jews, that a new power has entered this world.。
A power whereby every previous pretense to power must now bow down.。
And so these Magi, at a great cost to themselves, to their reputation, to their grip on power, to their control,。
travel from a faraway land, follow the star, bring these gifts, lay them down before Jesus, and worship Him.。
The Magi reveal to us that even when we have power, control, and prestige, the only right response, if we want to make more room for Jesus, is to lay those things down.。
That's the journey for all of us.。
For some of us, that journey will feel like the Magi journey. It'll feel like a long, long way to go.。
For others of us, it might feel like a simple step.。
But if you really want to make more room for Jesus, here in 2025, here's simply how you do it.。
You take the greatest gift that you have, yourself, you bring it to the feet of Jesus, and you lay it down.。
When you do that, Jesus' reign and authority and kingship is found.。
When we understand that in laying down of our power is the only way to receive the power that reigns for eternity, we become more like the Magi than Herod.。
And I pray that as we enter into this time together over the next number of weeks, the starting point would be,。
"Lord, where is it where I am ruling and reigning in such a way over my life that you are still living in the stable?"。
I want to make room. I want to change.。
So Lord, let me dethrone myself so that you may be enthroned.。
Can I pray for you? Let's pray.。
Father, what a precious thing the Advent story and Christmas is.。
This one singular candle of hope in the birth of Jesus, where every power now submits to and is laid down before.。
But Lord, we recognize that we can be a little bit like Herod at times, wanting to control our lives, be masters of our own futures.。
That we might have a Savior in you, but we struggle at times to be submitted to our Lord.。
Father, I want to pray for anyone here today where this message has really struck a chord with them.。
Maybe they know in some areas of their lives or their heart that they have not made room for you, but only made room for themselves.。
Lord, I recognize that in my heart.。
Lord, would you forgive me? And would you forgive those of us in this room watching online and the overflow where that resonates for us?。
And maybe just take a time, take a moment right now, if that is your journey, just to bring it to the Lord in confession.。
It's just a beautiful thing. It's just a way of saying, "Lord, would you forgive me?"。
Where I recognize that at times I make myself king and therefore fail to make you Lord.。
Would you forgive me?。
And Fathers, we make more room for you.。
What a joy it will be to know the eternal power that comes from your Spirit at work in us.。
That that same Spirit that raised Jesus from the dead is and will be and can be ever more and more and more within us.。
So Lord, I want to pray for my brothers and sisters here.。
Lord, that Advent this year would be a joyous time.。
Where they would come under the authority and the kingship and the power of Jesus like never before.。
And that out of that power they would find themselves alive like never before.。
The very people that you have created them to be and like in Ephesians 4, attaining to the whole measure of the wholeness of Christ.。
We thank you Lord that that is not just words on a page.。
It is a promise that we take to you in prayer.。
Lord, more of you and less of us.。
And we pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, "Amen."。
Amen. Would you stand with me and we're going to respond together in a final time of just worship here this morning.。
[Music]。
