(soft music)。
- Imagine with me for a moment, a church.。
This is not a church in the singular,。
on its own and distinct,。
but a church in the plural,。
united across a nation, joined in purpose,。
focused on building up God's kingdom, one life at a time.。
It is a church that has at the heart of its DNA,。
the grand narrative of the redemptive story of Jesus Christ,。
and that celebrates in the freedom and grace。
that such a story brings.。
This church is not constricted by the walls of a building,。
but actively engaged in the community it is planted in,。
desiring for God's kingdom to take root。
and bear fruit in local soil.。
A church that sees salvation as holistic,。
transforming God's people for God's work。
and equipping a generation to represent God's heart。
to the poor, the weak, the oppressed and the persecuted.。
Imagine this church committed to seeing the family。
as integral to all that it's called to be and do,。
involving intentional, committed。
and authentic relationships across all levels.。
It is the sort of place where both the young。
and the old feel cared for, supported and equipped.。
A church where people of all backgrounds and traditions。
come to feel at home, a cultural mosaic。
that honors and embraces a richness in diversity。
that marks us as the body of Christ.。
It is a church that is willing to innovate。
and express faith creatively,。
reflecting the boundless limits of God's creativity。
as glory to him.。
A place where people gather hungry for the presence of God。
and passionate to see this invade all aspects。
of their lives, where they seek to develop。
an intelligent spiritual faith,。
rooted in God's word and driven with prayer.。
A church that does not make its Sunday services。
the exclamation mark of its existence,。
but instead the comma in its ongoing sentence,。
a time of service, love and engagement。
that inspires and emboldens all equally。
for the conversation that lies ahead.。
A church that cares, disciples, rebuilds, renews.。
This is our city.。
This is our church.。
This is our home.。
- Good morning church.。
How's everybody doing?。
Yeah, give me a wave is good.。
All right, it's all right, okay.。
Thank you for coming to the Vine Yuen Long.。
So good to see you here.。
And it's been, it's really cold outside, isn't it?。
It's so cold outside and it's cold inside,。
but you guys still made it to the 1130.。
So give everybody a round of applause.。
The person next to you, well done for being here on time.。
Yeah.。
I struggled to wake up this morning.。
It was too cold.。
But then I was like, ah, I know I'll feel good.。
I know I wanna be here and encounter God today.。
So I hope you feel the same.。
And now I would like to invite all of you。
to stand please and hello.。
In Psalm 63, it says,。
you God are my God.。
Earnestly I seek you.。
I thirst for you.。
My whole being longs for you。
in a dry and parched land where there's no water.。
I'm not sure if you have time to kind of have a reflection。
in the, in 2023, how it's been like.。
Was it a difficult year?。
Or are you struggling in any areas in your life right now?。
And you struggle to come here and worship,。
but you still made the decision to come here today.。
And we worship not just in our highs,。
but we worship in our lows.。
We worship when our life is dry,。
but we wanna thirst for God's love and his presence.。
And in Psalm 63, continue to say,。
I have seen you in the century。
and beheld your power and your glory。
because your love is better than life.。
My lips will glorify you.。
I'll praise you as long as I live.。
And in your name, I'll lift up my hands.。
Everybody, let us prepare our hearts。
and encounter God in the spirit.。
And Jesus, we welcome you.。
And may you just touch our hearts and speak with us.。
May you just overwhelm this place, Lord.。
And we are here to worship you.。
In Nehemiah 8, 10, it says,。
"The joy of the Lord is your strength."。
So with that in the mind,。
let's just raise our voices and worship with joy.。
One, two.。
(upbeat music)。
♪ Joy to the world ♪。
♪ The Lord is come ♪。
♪ Let earth receive her King ♪。
♪ Let every heart prepare Him room ♪。
♪ And heaven and nature sing ♪。
♪ And heaven and nature sing ♪。
♪ And heaven, heaven, nature sing ♪。
Joy.。
♪ Joy to the world ♪。
♪ The Savior reigns ♪。
♪ Let all their songs employ ♪。
♪ While fields and floods ♪。
♪ Rocks, hills, and plains ♪。
♪ Repeat the sounding joy ♪。
♪ Repeat the sounding joy ♪。
♪ Repeat, repeat the sounding joy ♪。
♪ Singing joy ♪。
Come on, let's lift our voice.。
Sing joy.。
♪ And joy, unspeakable joy ♪。
♪ Overflowing well ♪。
♪ No tongue can tell ♪。
♪ Joy, unspeakable joy ♪。
♪ Rises in my soul ♪。
♪ Never lets me go ♪。
He rules.。
♪ And He rules the world ♪。
♪ With truth and grace ♪。
♪ And makes the nations true ♪。
♪ The glories of His righteousness ♪。
♪ And wonders of His love ♪。
♪ And wonders of His love ♪。
♪ And wonders, wonders of His love ♪。
Joy, unspeakable joy.。
♪ Joy, unspeakable joy ♪。
♪ Overflowing well ♪。
♪ No tongue can tell ♪。
♪ Joy, unspeakable joy ♪。
♪ Rises in my soul ♪。
♪ Never lets me go ♪。
Come on, let's lift up a shout of praise.。
(audience applauding)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
♪ The first Noel ♪。
♪ The angels did say ♪。
♪ Was to certain poor shepherds ♪。
♪ In fields as they lay ♪。
♪ In fields where they lay keeping their sheep ♪。
♪ On a cold winter's night ♪。
♪ That was so deep ♪。
♪ Noel, Noel ♪。
♪ Noel, Noel ♪。
♪ Born is the King of Israel ♪。
♪ Noel, Noel ♪。
♪ Noel, Noel ♪。
♪ Born is the King of Israel ♪。
♪ They looked up and saw a star ♪。
♪ Shining in the east beyond them far ♪。
♪ And to the earth it gave its light ♪。
♪ And to the earth it gave great light ♪。
♪ And so it continued both day and night ♪。
♪ Noel, Noel ♪。
♪ Noel, Noel ♪。
♪ Born is the King of Israel ♪。
♪ Noel, Noel ♪。
♪ Noel, Noel ♪。
♪ Born is the King of Israel ♪。
♪ Noel, Noel ♪。
♪ Noel, Noel ♪。
♪ Born is the King of Israel ♪。
♪ Noel, Noel ♪。
♪ Noel, Noel ♪。
♪ Born is the King ♪。
♪ Born is the King ♪。
♪ Born is the King of Israel ♪。
♪ Born is the King of Israel ♪。
Jesus, we worship you.。
Thank you for coming as a baby,。
fully man, fully God,。
to die for our sins.。
We just take this time to remember you,。
to worship you,。
and be in reverence and awe of you.。
Let's sing this.。
♪ Light of the world ♪。
♪ You step down into darkness ♪。
♪ Open my eyes ♪。
♪ Let me see ♪。
♪ Beauty that made ♪。
♪ This heart adore you ♪。
♪ Hope of a life spent with you ♪。
♪ Oh, and here I am to worship ♪。
♪ Here I am to love them ♪。
♪ Here I am to say that you're my God ♪。
♪ You're altogether lovely ♪。
♪ Altogether worthy ♪。
♪ Altogether wonderful to me ♪。
♪ You're a wonderful King ♪。
♪ You're the King of all days ♪。
♪ Oh, so highly exalted ♪。
♪ Glorious in heaven above ♪。
♪ Lovely you came to the earth you created ♪。
♪ All for love's sake became poor ♪。
Here I am!。
♪ Here I am to worship ♪。
♪ Here I am to love them ♪。
♪ Here I am to say that you're my God ♪。
♪ You're altogether lovely ♪。
♪ Altogether worthy ♪。
♪ Altogether wonderful to me ♪。
Sing it again.。
♪ Here I am ♪。
♪ Here I am to worship ♪。
♪ Here I am to love them ♪。
♪ Here I am to say that you're my God ♪。
♪ You're altogether lovely ♪。
♪ Altogether worthy ♪。
♪ Altogether wonderful to me ♪。
♪ To me ♪。
♪ Yes, Jesus, you are wonderful ♪。
♪ Yes, Jesus, you are worthy of praise ♪。
♪ Yes, you are ♪。
♪ We worship you ♪。
♪ Yes, we worship you ♪。
(gentle music)。
Sing you are more.。
♪ You are more than life to me ♪。
♪ You are more than life ♪。
♪ You're more than life ♪。
♪ You are more than life to me ♪。
♪ You are more than life to me ♪。
Sing it again, you are more.。
♪ And you are more than life to me ♪。
♪ You are more than life to me ♪。
♪ More than ♪。
♪ More than, more than life to me ♪。
♪ More than life ♪。
♪ You are more than life to me ♪。
♪ Yes, you are more than life ♪。
♪ More than life ♪。
♪ More than we can ever ask for ♪。
♪ Yes, Jesus ♪。
♪ More than life ♪。
♪ We worship you ♪。
Brothers and sisters, you may take a seat.。
We'll now continue to worship our God。
with something called liturgy.。
It's a tradition that's been passed down。
for years in the church.。
This month it's Advent,。
and every week we'll have someone come up。
and read some scripture and light the candles.。
And today it's the last Sunday of Advent.。
These candles represent what Jesus brings to us。
as he comes on earth, hope, love, joy, and peace.。
And today I would like to invite Edith and Lovely.。
Please come on up.。
They will lead us into reading scripture。
and we can respond,。
and they will light the last candle for us today.。
Jesus said, "I am the light of the world.。
"The one who follows me will not walk in darkness,。
"but have the light of life."。
We light this candle as a sign。
of the coming light of Christ.。
(gentle music)。
Arise, shine, for your light has come,。
and the glory of the Lord rises upon you.。
See, darkness covers the earth,。
and thick darkness is over the peoples,。
but the Lord rises upon you,。
and his glory appears over you.。
Nations will come to your light,。
and kings to the brightness of your dome.。
Come, Lord Jesus, our light and fire.。
Until that day, let us walk in the light of the Lord.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Thank you.。
Let's give them a hand.。
Thank you, Lovely and Edith.。
And thank you for our worship team as well,。
for the lovely worship.。
Yeah, let us have a prayer.。
Ooh, you wanna join?。
Yeah, okay.。
Let us pray.。
Father, we thank you so much for the love you have for us.。
You sent your only son on earth to die for us, for our sin.。
You're here to give us hope, joy, peace, and love.。
In the world that we're in, in the chaos,。
in the mess that we're in,。
you're the light in the darkness.。
And you said you're not the only light.。
You want us to be the followers of Jesus,。
also be the light in the world, Lord.。
As we prepare to enter Christmas tomorrow,。
prepare our hearts, Lord, to welcome you, to celebrate you.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
Thank you.。
All right, well, I take this time,。
I wanna welcome everybody.。
Welcome to the Vine Yuen Long again.。
My name is Francesca.。
I'm part of the Vine Yuen Long here.。
I want to give a warm welcome to any first comer,。
any newcomers here today.。
Please raise your hand, don't be shy.。
Yay, welcome.。
We have quite a few newcomers.。
All right, welcome to the Vine Yuen Long.。
So great to have you guys here on this very special day.。
So, brothers and sisters who are sitting next to you guys,。
please give them a warm welcome for us,。
and maybe you can tell them a bit more about us。
and what we do and our gatherings and all that.。
And yeah, so welcome all of you.。
Now, as you see, we have many children here.。
So they're now going to this time of K4C.。
They're gonna have their own worship time。
and studying the Bible.。
So let us reach our hands。
and just bless all these beautiful children.。
Father, thank you so much for,。
you've blessed us with all these beautiful children。
in our church, Lord, and you love them so much.。
And you love them more than any of us can love them.。
And Jesus, I just pray that in the time of K4C。
that they will all encounter you,。
they will experience your love,。
and that they will grow and that they will learn。
and build their foundation in who you are and the truth.。
Jesus, we also pray and bless all the K4C teachers.。
You bless them and just be with them and equip them。
so that they have a wonderful time with the kids。
and that they also feel fulfilled。
after the time of K4C.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
All right, so we have zero to two years old.。
Parents, you can accompany your kids to over there。
in this room, playroom.。
And also we have age three to five and six to 12.。
You can go over to my left side to June.。
And now this is a great opportunity for you。
to say hello to your friends and neighbors.。
We wanna encourage you to say hello to someone。
that you haven't met yet.。
So maybe if you don't know what to say,。
no worry, I got you covered.。
You can maybe ask them,。
what do you like to do in Christmas?。
All right, let's go.。
♪ The near and the dear ones ♪。
♪ The old and the young ♪。
♪ A very Merry Christmas ♪。
♪ And a Happy New Year ♪。
♪ Let's hope this does not fall ♪。
♪ Without any tears ♪。
♪ So this is Christmas ♪。
♪ For we can fall strong ♪。
♪ The rich and the poor ones ♪。
♪ For this so long ♪。
♪ And so happy Christmas ♪。
♪ For black and for white ♪。
♪ For yellow and red ones ♪。
♪ Let's stop all the pride ♪。
♪ A very Merry Christmas ♪。
♪ And a Happy New Year ♪。
♪ Let's hope this does not fall ♪。
♪ Without any tears ♪。
♪ So this is Christmas ♪。
♪ What have we done ♪。
♪ For the year of white ♪。
All right, I believe everybody, it's nearly settled.。
Okay, now we would like to mix a few announcement。
before we get into the sermon today.。
First of all, what day is tomorrow?。
Christmas, yes, Christmas tomorrow.。
And we have two Christmas services tomorrow,。
which is 9.30 and 11.30, same Cantonese and English.。
You're more than welcome to join both services。
to extend the celebrations.。
Why not, right?。
Now, tomorrow the service is slightly different。
than what we're doing today,。
'cause it's a special Christmas service.。
It will be slightly shorter and it's family oriented.。
So we welcome all the kids to join us in the service.。
Therefore, there will be no K4C tomorrow, okay?。
So parents, there's no K4C tomorrow.。
And in the service tomorrow,。
we have a special event.。
We have this drama, it's called the Nativity Play。
that our kids in our church have prepared。
in the last few weeks.。
They have put in a lot of effort。
and a lot of time to prepare for it.。
So we welcome all of you to come.。
And this is a great opportunity。
for you to invite friends to join us,。
especially those who don't know Jesus yet.。
And kids, you know, invite them and say,。
"Hey, come join us for a play."。
It'll be a great opportunity tomorrow.。
So that'll be that.。
And after the Christmas service is tomorrow,。
what do we have?。
Cookies!。
Yes, we have, people are like, "Cookies, what?"。
We have the cookies feast.。
So it's like a party we wanna have。
right after each service.。
So we do have a bit of time.。
People will bring in cookies and cupcakes.。
Some are gonna bake some homemade breads.。
It's really for us to, you know,。
spend time with one another and celebrate,。
not just come here and go.。
So if you're interested,。
so for those who are gonna bring something,。
you don't wanna raise your hands.。
No worries.。
Yeah, oh, that's quite a bit.。
We're gonna have a lot of food tomorrow.。
For those you haven't raised your hand, don't worry.。
You can come eat,。
or you can also bring in something that you wanna,。
you like and you can share with us.。
But we kinda wanna know who's gonna bring what.。
So if you can, after the service,。
can you look for Chairman?。
Chairman, where are you?。
Chairman's right there.。
So look for him afterwards and tell him,。
"Oh, actually, I wanna bring this as well."。
So that he can have some idea in mind。
what we have tomorrow.。
All right, thank you.。
And now we're gonna get into the time of offering.。
Now, offering, it's an act of worship。
and how we respond to the love of God.。
It's an act of faith and it's an act of trust。
and our love to God.。
So if this is your first time here,。
or you're not sure the meaning of offering,。
please don't feel pressure.。
You can just pass the bucket to the person next to you.。
Yeah, and also we have different methods。
that you can do your offering as well.。
So I'll just let the bucket pass around。
for a little while first.。
(upbeat music)。
♪ Soon it will be Christmas day ♪。
♪ It's almost here ♪。
♪ Take the time to breathe the air ♪。
♪ The bells ring out to us ♪。
All right, shall we pray for our offering?。
Let us pray.。
Father God,。
you're our life and you're our provider.。
And Lord, we just come before you with these offering.。
May you just bless it.。
And so that it will turn into blessings。
to different ministries and to other people's life.。
And Lord, as we do our offering,。
it's like we say, Lord, we trust you.。
And we love you, Lord.。
And yeah, may you bless it.。
And then you will bless it 10 folds more。
as we offer to you, Lord.。
And thank you, Jesus.。
In Jesus name we pray, amen.。
All right, now we're gonna invite our speaker of today.。
And we have Pastor Tim.。
Let's give him a big warm welcome.。
All right, all right.。
I feel like I wanna stand a bit, so I'm not too sure.。
(laughing)。
So just, you know, some of you might know,。
actually, Pastor Ivan was sick yesterday,。
and Pastor Tim was also sick for the past couple days.。
And it's like, you know, when we wanna do things for God。
and then, you know, the enemy's trying to stop you,。
but then guess what?。
Look at him, he looks amazing.。
And Ivan looks amazing too, where are you, Ivan?。
He's somewhere.。
Let's see if he's amazing.。
Because they were covering a lot of prayers yesterday。
so that they can be here today to share the word of God.。
So yeah, I'm glad to see you here.。
Thank you.。
All right, let us reach our hands and pray for him,。
shall we?。
Jesus, we thank you so much for Tim。
and how you created him and the heart he has for you.。
And Lord, even though he's been struggling with sickness。
and, you know, the flu that's been around,。
but Lord, he's here today because he's here。
to share a word and glorify you, Lord.。
We just pray for your protection over him and his family.。
We pray that you give him strength as he share。
and that you open all of our hearts to receive the message。
that you wanna speak to us today.。
And Jesus, we thank you.。
Jesus, in we pray.。
Amen, thank you, Francesca.。
It's so good to see you all.。
Now, I wanna share with you about an experience。
I had about 10 years ago.。
I took a Christmas Bible quiz。
and I got a really low score.。
So this was a little bit traumatizing for me.。
So I had a lot of sleepless nights.。
I woke up, there was tears in my eyes thinking of,。
no, not really.。
But my score was, I was really shocked。
at how much details of the Christmas story I got wrong.。
So I thought it would be fun this morning。
to do a little Christmas Bible quiz.。
So are you ready for that?。
Come on.。
I told you I got a bad score.。
So you're set up for success.。
Okay, so here's the first question.。
Jesus was born in a stable, true or false?。
If you think it's true, raise your hand.。
Okay, the answer is false.。
The Bible actually doesn't say where Jesus was born.。
So that's the first one.。
All right, second one.。
There were three wise men who brought gifts。
of gold, frankincense, and myrrh, true or false?。
True?。
False.。
Okay, so that is also false。
because it doesn't mention that there was three wise men.。
Good job, that one, you did good.。
That was good.。
The next one.。
What animal did Mary ride on。
during the journey from Nazareth to Bethlehem?。
Was it a donkey?。
Was it a mule, a horse, or does the Bible does not say?。
So if you think it was a donkey, raise your hand.。
If you think it was a mule,。
if you think it was a horse,。
I'm the only one who thinks it's a horse, okay,。
or the Bible does not say?。
The Bible does not say.。
It actually doesn't, Mary probably walked.。
See, I'm serious.。
But a Christmas place always have a donkey。
or a mule in there, right?。
Okay, and here's the fourth one, last one.。
Here's the last one.。
Where did the Magi from the East meet Jesus?。
Was it in a cave, in a manger, in a house,。
or the Bible does not say?。
So the first one is cave.。
Okay, the second one is the manger.。
Okay, we got a few.。
The house.。
And then the last one, the Bible does not say.。
Okay, so the Magi met Jesus in a house.。
(congregation exclaims)。
Because they actually came almost two years。
after Jesus was born.。
And so Joseph and Mary were living in a house,。
Matthew 2, 11, you can look it up.。
So what is, so, okay, I'm curious.。
Who got two or more right?。
How about three or more?。
What about four out of four?。
Okay, we have one person.。
Congratulations.。
We have a Bible scholar among us.。
This is great.。
So why am I doing this Christmas quiz?。
Well, what I wanted to highlight through my own experience,。
but also I think through our experience。
right now here together is that our knowledge。
from Christmas about Jesus,。
it comes from pop culture, from Christmas plays,。
from tradition, but not really from the Bible account.。
And so what happens over time is that these traditions,。
they have made Jesus into someone he is not really.。
They made him meek and mild.。
He's baby Jesus.。
And it's like, I call it the tamed Jesus.。
It's not the Jesus of scripture.。
Where all the rough edges,。
all the things that might challenge us,。
what do you call it, sanded off.。
And so it's this Jesus that we hear。
and learn about in pop culture,。
but it's not really who Jesus is.。
And what I wanna do with you today。
is I wanna take you to some of the birth narratives。
of Jesus where we can get a glimpse of the real Jesus,。
the untamed Jesus,。
the Jesus that has the power to change people's lives,。
that Jesus has the power to turn our lives around,。
and the Jesus that speaks authoritatively。
yet lovingly into our lives and has something to say to us.。
And so we're continuing in our message today.。
The message series, Christmas.。
I hope you've been enjoying it.。
Have you been enjoying it?。
Has it been good?。
Yes, okay.。
I think it's been great.。
I've been enjoying it.。
And our topic for today is of signs and swords.。
And so to explain who this untamed Jesus is,。
the real Jesus,。
I wanna take you to the Gospel of Luke chapter two,。
and starting in verse 25, it says this.。
Now there was a man in Jerusalem called Simeon。
who was righteous and devout.。
He was waiting for the consolation of Israel,。
and the Holy Spirit was on him.。
It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit。
that he would not die before he had seen the Lord's Messiah.。
Now Luke introduces Simeon as a devout man,。
and we see this devotion because Simeon is waiting。
for the consolation of Israel.。
Now what is that?。
What is the consolation of Israel?。
Well, in the Old Testament,。
prophet spoke of a time where things in Israel。
will be set right,。
where things in Israel will be restored,。
where God will bring wholeness to Israel.。
So it's also talking about the Messiah,。
that the Messiah would come,。
the anointed king to set things in order.。
And Simeon's devotion is shown。
that he is patiently waiting for that.。
He hasn't given up on that.。
He's an old man at this point in time,。
but he's patiently waiting.。
And when we think about wanting things to happen,。
I don't know about you,。
but we live in this like immediacy culture, right?。
Where we want things to happen right away.。
We don't wanna wait.。
But a lot of times when it comes to the things of God,。
actually we have to be patient and wait on God's timing.。
And so you see Simeon doing this here.。
Now, another thing we learn about Simeon。
is that the Holy Spirit was upon him,。
which is in the Old Testament,。
of course, we're in the New Testament,。
but it's a way of describing prophets.。
So we should understand Simeon as a prophet.。
And what we're about to read are some prophetic things。
that Simeon is saying.。
But let's continue.。
So verse 27 says this,。
"Moved by the Spirit, he went into the temple courts.。
"When the parents brought the child Jesus。
"to do for him what the custom of the law required."。
So Simeon had been brought by the Spirit into the temple.。
So he's being led by God.。
Jesus' parents are also shown as being devout,。
Joseph and Mary,。
because they're going to the temple,。
whether it's the eighth day, the naming of Jesus,。
or whether it's the 40th day。
of dedicating the firstborn son to God.。
They're being obedient to God。
by bringing him to the temple.。
Let's continue.。
So in verse 28 through 33, it says this,。
"Simeon took him by his arms and praised God, saying,。
"Sovereign Lord, as you have promised,。
"you may now dismiss your servant in peace.。
"From my eyes I've seen your salvation,。
"which you have prepared in the sight of all nations,。
"a light for revelation to the Gentiles。
"and the glory of your people Israel.。
"The child's father and mother marveled。
"at what was said about him."。
So Simeon takes Jesus in his arms.。
I always wonder in that scene,。
like, does he explain anything,。
or do they just let him grab the baby?。
You know, how does that all play out?。
But he takes Jesus in his arms,。
and then he starts to speak prophetically。
over the identity of who Jesus is.。
And he talks about that Jesus will bring salvation.。
You know, he is the consolation of Israel.。
He is the one who will restore things,。
renew things, and put things into right order.。
And he is not just doing that for Israel,。
but he's doing that for all people.。
And so then we're told that Mary and Joseph,。
when they hear that, they're marveling.。
This is music to their ears.。
I mean, what incredible words spoken over your child.。
Amazing.。
But now you're wondering,。
he talked about untamed Jesus.。
Like, so far, things seem the way we probably know them.。
But now we're gonna get into the part。
that a lot of times is skipped,。
or not talked much about,。
and this is the second prophecy of Simeon.。
And that's where we see a more true picture。
of who Jesus is, and how people relate to Jesus.。
So let's look at that.。
So up until now, Mary, this was music to her ears,。
but the next words are actually hard.。
Verse 34, let's continue.。
It says, "Then Simeon blessed them。
"and said to Mary, his mother,。
"'This child is destined,。
"'the cause of falling and the rising of many in Israel,。
"'and to be a sign that people will be spoken against,。
"'so that the thoughts of many hearts will be revealed,。
"'and a sword will pierce your own soul too.'"。
Wow, what just happened?。
This was like positive news beforehand, right?。
And then now suddenly there's some heavy words spoken。
over Jesus, and over Mary as well.。
We're not told how Mary responds,。
but we can only imagine that's a lot of the process。
and the take in, and try to understand and make sense of.。
So let's unpack the second prophecy.。
Let's take a closer look at what this is talking about。
and what it means.。
Just to give the big picture,。
basically this is about the rejection,。
how people will reject Jesus.。
How there will be some who accept him,。
but how a lot will reject the salvation that he will bring.。
But let's look a little bit at it in more detail.。
So we're told that Jesus' destiny calls the falling。
and the rising of many, and that he will be a sign。
that will be spoken against so that the thoughts。
of many hearts will be revealed.。
So whereas the falling and the rising speaks of,。
you know, the falling is rejection,。
the rising is accepting Jesus,。
but then the second part, that be a sign。
that will be spoken against is just rejection.。
But it also shows how we relate to Jesus,。
how we treat him reveals what's in our hearts,。
and how we relate to God, 'cause Jesus is God with us.。
Now I wanna especially focus on unpacking the imagery。
of falling and rising, which often is used。
in the New Testament to describe responses to Jesus.。
So Simeon is drawing on this familiar image。
that you find throughout the Old Testament,。
and also the New Testament as well.。
And it's that of a cornerstone that some accept。
and they receive salvation, and some reject,。
and it's their stumbling stone.。
So in Isaiah 8, verse 14, it says this.。
He will be a holy place for both Israel and Judah.。
He will be a stone that causes people to stumble,。
and a rock that makes them fall.。
And for the people of Jerusalem,。
he will be a trap and a snare.。
Isaiah 28, 16 says this.。
So this is what the sovereign Lord says.。
See I lay a stone in Zion, a tested stone,。
a precious cornerstone for a sure foundation.。
The one who relies on it will never be stricken with panic.。
And then Psalm 118, verse 22.。
The stone the builders rejected。
has become the cornerstone.。
So the falling and rising response。
to people reacting to Jesus differently.。
Those who are falling, they are rejecting who Jesus is,。
and they're not receiving him.。
And they ultimately fall,。
and there is experience of judgment.。
And those who are rising are open to Jesus,。
you know, accept him, place their faith in the cornerstone,。
and experience salvation.。
Now the reality is we go between rising and falling。
a lot of times.。
So for example, Apostle Paul, he was falling.。
He was persecuting Christians.。
He was going after them.。
He was even involved, you know,。
whether actively or just as a bystander,。
in that way supporting of people being,。
Christians being killed.。
Stephen, in Acts.。
But then he had a Jesus encounter。
on the road to Damascus.。
And he was blinded,。
but God got his attention.。
And he went from falling to rising。
and to being open and accepting Jesus,。
being one of the great proclaimers,。
you know, in early Christian movement of Jesus,。
and establishing churches and planting churches.。
And so for us, there might also be seasons。
where we have been open to Jesus,。
but never really reach a conclusion about him.。
And then where we were rejecting Jesus for a season,。
and maybe we're open again.。
So we move between this rising and falling.。
But Jesus, he has come to stake out the claim。
that he is King of Kings, Lord of Lords.。
Jesus polarizes his contemporaries.。
There were those who wanted to kill him,。
and they eventually did,。
they nailed him to the cross.。
And there are those who believe that Jesus is the Messiah,。
the Son of God, and who received him as that.。
Now what you see in the Bible,。
what you don't see in the Bible,。
is people simply saying, oh, he was a good teacher.。
He was a nice guy.。
There is not such a mild response to Jesus.。
Now people react strongly one way or the other to him,。
'cause Jesus did not leave that option open。
to just treat him as, oh, he's a nice guy,。
with the things that he said, the things that he proclaimed.。
So he was polarizing, of course, with a purpose,。
not just not to antagonize, but because he had come,。
you know, was on a rescue mission to save and deliver.。
And a lot of times when we need rescuing,。
we actually need a shaking up,。
otherwise we don't get it.。
So Jesus came to shake things up。
and to be very clear about who he is.。
The only way to, or if Simeon's prophetic bird is correct,。
if Jesus came to polarize people to cause some to rise。
and some to fall, why is it that most people today。
don't seem to be rising and falling?。
Why don't people today have the polarized response to Jesus?。
Well, I think for one, if people never have heard of Jesus,。
obviously, how can you have response to it?。
But part of it is what I brought up earlier,。
where we have tamed Jesus.。
We have a wrong image of who Jesus is, not the real Jesus.。
And that Jesus is fiction.。
You know, they have become to believe in a version of Jesus,。
one that, you know, Christmas plays and traditions。
and pop culture give us.。
People only want to believe that Jesus was a nice guy,。
a good teacher, and a man with moral principles.。
We try to make Jesus into something we can manage。
that fits neatly into our lives,。
so that we can be in control。
and just call him when we need him,。
but not deal with Jesus at another point in time.。
So we don't really want to deal with Jesus' claims。
about his identity.。
We want Jesus on our terms.。
This is true for Christians as well,。
whether you're a Christian or not a Christian.。
Everybody does this at one point or another.。
But there is no historical evidence of a Jesus。
that was just a good teacher.。
The Bible gives us a different picture.。
Now, there's a famous Oxford scholar。
from the 20th century called C.S. Lewis,。
and he has a quote that I want to read to you.。
"I'm trying here to prevent anyone saying。
"the really foolish thing that people often say about him.。
"I'm ready to accept Jesus as a great moral teacher,。
"but I don't accept his claims to be God.。
"That is the one thing we must not say.。
"A man who was merely a man and said the sort of things。
"that Jesus said would not be a great moral teacher.。
"He would either be a lunatic on the level of the man。
"who thinks he's a poached egg,。
"or else he would be the devil of hell.。
"You must make your choice.。
"Either this man was and is the son of God,。
"or else a madman or something worse.。
"You can't shut him up for a fool.。
"You can't spit on him and kill him as a demon,。
"or you can fall at his feet and call him Lord and God.。
"But let us not come with any patronizing nonsense。
"about his being a great human teacher.。
"He has not left that open to us.。
"He did not intend to."。
And so I wonder if some of us today,。
if we've been preferring this tamed Jesus。
that C.S. Lewis just talked about is not an option,。
where we keep Jesus at arm length in our life,。
at arm length in our life,。
because we don't really want him to break into lives,。
to speak into our lives.。
But Jesus, this Jesus is an idol.。
You know, this is not a real thing.。
We create Jesus basically in our own image,。
the way we want Jesus to be.。
But it's not the Jesus of Scripture,。
not the one who fiercely loves us,。
who lays down his life for us,。
who is worth sacrificing for, giving our lives for.。
But the real Jesus, the untamed Jesus。
that Simeon Prophetic spoke of。
causes the falling and rising of people.。
He has the power to transform your life.。
He is a son of God, King of kings and Lord of lords.。
The real Jesus influences our decisions,。
choices of friends and behavior,。
and stirs in us a desire to live sacrificially,。
to contribute to the well-being。
and flourishing of those around us.。
That's what real Jesus does.。
He speaks powerfully into our lives.。
The real Jesus is worthy of our adoration,。
worship, obedience, and sacrifice.。
He's not a nice to have.。
He's essential.。
He's King of kings.。
He deserves our worship.。
So accepting Jesus into our lives。
is not a guarantee of perfect days ahead。
and an easy road in life.。
Now sometimes we give the impression as pastors。
that if you become a Jesus follower,。
you will never have a problem again.。
Now Jesus blesses us incredibly,。
and he loves us perfectly,。
but it does not mean that there is not challenges。
that we face or that he allows for us to go through.。
Now as a Christian,。
we often find ourselves at a crossroad.。
Do we choose comfort and convenience,。
or do we choose obedience to Jesus?。
When you obey Jesus, there might be a cost,。
the loss of money, the loss of a job,。
the loss of previous plans, the loss of reputation,。
the loss of a relationship.。
And Jesus, even today, he speaks challenging things to us,。
calling us to difficult tasks。
like mediating a conflict。
that you'd rather not get involved in,。
forgiving someone who has hurt you,。
loving our enemies,。
standing up for something that is not right。
in your company, your organization,。
and being willing to potentially lose your job,。
leading into a conflict and working towards reconciliation.。
In a previous role in a church when I was a senior pastor,。
I had a leaders meeting,。
and somebody just started laying into me,。
"Your sermons suck, your preaching sucks,。
"you're not inspiring, the way you handled it."。
I mean, just went off for 10 minutes,。
and it was so hard, I got a little bit defensive。
because it was so strong.。
I tried not to be,。
but then other people started getting defensive for me.。
And my human reaction, the comfortable reaction,。
would be, "Well, if it's so bad, why don't you just leave?"。
But of course that's not what Jesus asked me to do.。
He asked me to lean in, to go to the person,。
to understand what's on the person's heart,。
to communicate that how this person communicated。
was not a way that I could receive it。
or anyone could receive it, and do that hard work.。
And that was very difficult.。
So Jesus, he calls us to do difficult things,。
but they are always good.。
When he asks us to do something difficult,。
God is always working through that in us and through it.。
Maybe that also means standing up for someone。
when no one else does.。
Giving sacrificially of your time to a person in need,。
even if it's really difficult.。
If Jesus is just at arm's length and a nice to have,。
why would you do that?。
But if Jesus is your Lord and he asks you to do it,。
we say, "Yes, Lord."。
Or waiting on God to do something that he has promised us。
and waiting on his timing and not on our own timing.。
'Cause a lot of times, I mean, I'm the same way.。
I want things to happen right now.。
But sometimes God asks us to wait patiently,。
to trust him, to rely on him,。
and to just keep coming to him with whatever is going on。
and asking him for grace and strength.。
And he gives us the grace and strength.。
Now, in the early 2000s, I was attending a church.。
I was working at Morgan Stanley.。
I was a businessman at the time.。
And there was three services in a row。
where they had missionaries share, and it was so powerful.。
And I was so moved after every Sunday.。
I had like tears flowing down my eyes,。
which was not my normal response to a sermon at that time.。
So after the second Sunday, I was like,。
"Is God trying to tell me something?"。
And then on the third Sunday,。
I realized that God was calling me to do something else,。
that there was a change of plans,。
and that I needed to act right away.。
So that night, I went into my office,。
I cleared out my office.。
And then the next day,。
I went with jeans and a t-shirt to my boss,。
and I told him that God had called me。
to do something for him, and that I had to quit my job.。
To my surprise, my boss commended my courage for doing that.。
He also told me not to show up。
at a different investment firm anytime soon,。
because they invested a lot of resources in me,。
you know, with licenses and all that stuff.。
Now, this was not what I had planned.。
This was not my plan.。
I never planned to be a pastor.。
Or at that time, I just knew God wanted me,。
I didn't even know exactly what.。
And then suddenly I found myself in this mess,。
'cause I quit my job.。
I don't know exactly what I'm doing.。
I told my parents, ooh.。
Yeah, my parents, you make a big mistake.。
Why didn't you stay there?。
I knew, that's why I didn't ask my parents beforehand,。
because I knew what they would say.。
(audience laughing)。
But my prayer was that they would come around,。
that they would understand,。
that they could see that God had called me.。
And then I ended up, in the meantime,。
as I was applying to different roles and things,。
I took a job at an old company。
that I worked for in a lot lower position.。
And I even wondered, God, did I make a mistake?。
Did I hear you wrongly?。
But I ended up joining Mercy Ships, a medical mission ship.。
I did a discipleship training school with them。
for five months in West Africa.。
They do life-saving surgeries,。
bringing hope and healing through their practical work,。
but also through sharing the gospel.。
I helped out in the finance department。
and also had that schooling.。
And for me, even though it was messy,。
when Jesus calls us to do things,。
a lot of times they're messy.。
There's a season where stuff gets stirred up,。
but it is always good.。
God always has a good reason and a good purpose for it.。
And for me, this is like my key turning point,。
where Jesus set me on a different trajectory,。
because he had different plans for my life。
than I had come up with on my own.。
I wanted to be successful in business.。
My father was successful.。
I wanted to be like him in this way.。
But Jesus had a different plan for me.。
So this is what happens when the real Jesus。
enters your life and is Lord of your life.。
He speaks into your life.。
He calls you to obedience.。
And Jesus comes into our lives and turns things upside down.。
This is messy, but it always is designed to bring life.。
Jesus is working out his good purposes in us and through us.。
I'll just think also when the Holy Spirit。
confronts us in sin,。
when he asks us to stop watching pornography。
or to stop cheating on our taxes or whatever it is.。
You know, it's not nice to be confronted in those things.。
And it always is messy.。
But when we repent and we do what Jesus asks us to do,。
he brings wholeness.。
He brings life.。
He does something good.。
But that only happens when Jesus is Lord of your life,。
when you give him that space to speak that way。
into your life.。
But a lot of times we love keeping Jesus at arm's length。
'cause we wanna be in control.。
(breathes deeply)。
Now, receiving difficult tasks,。
you know, to stand up in your company。
for something that's wrong or that changed a career。
or to lean into a difficult conversation。
with somebody who has not treated you very nicely.。
You know, that's uneasy to get that sort of news。
and direction.。
And involves not just joy,。
but there are also some pain in there.。
Just imagine how Mary must have felt。
when Simeon was speaking those prophetic words over her。
and in Jesus.。
He said, "And a sword will pierce your own soul too."。
That is Simeon's prophetic word over Mary.。
Now, what does that mean?。
Well, it's not a physical sword, but a metaphorical sword。
where she will experience pain。
because her son Jesus is being rejected。
and because she sees him suffer.。
You know, that's not an easy burden to carry.。
But at the same time, Simeon also had revealed,。
and in other settings as well,。
that Jesus was the consolation of Israel,。
the Messiah who would bring salvation to all people.。
So even though there is suffering,。
there's also joy in knowing what God is doing.。
And if God calls you to do something,。
he gives you the grace and the strength to do it.。
He never asks you to do something that you cannot do.。
He doesn't set you up for failure.。
He gave Mary the grace and the strength to do it.。
He gave me the grace and strength to do it,。
to go through a messy transition.。
And God will give you the grace and the strength。
to go through it when you're obedient,。
when he's leading you.。
He will provide for you.。
And it is always for the good.。
You know, God has good plans and a good purpose for you.。
But if we block him out of our lives。
or keep him so far away,。
you know, we're keeping Jesus。
from doing that work in our lives.。
I wanna right now invite the worship team to come up.。
Now, some of us, you know,。
we have been keeping Jesus at arm's length.。
We have bought into whether we purposefully wanted to,。
into this tamed Jesus that we can control,。
that is only a nice to have when we need him.。
We call him like a magic genie.。
You know, help us and give us what we need.。
But we have not surrendered all areas。
of our lives to Jesus.。
But Jesus deserves our all.。
He wants your whole heart.。
He doesn't just want a little part of your life.。
He wants, he wants all of your heart.。
And whatever Jesus does is always for the good.。
And so my question is,。
are you giving him room to speak into your life,。
to speak words of encouragement,。
to speak words of direction,。
to speak words of correction as well?。
You know, are you giving Jesus that space in your life?。
And when we give Jesus that space in our lives,。
this is the real Jesus,。
the one who turns our lives around,。
who takes our broken lives, our messy lives,。
and who turns them into something beautiful,。
who lets us know that he loves us,。
that he has perfect plans for us,。
and who works them out in our lives。
in a way we can't even imagine or dream of.。
But that doesn't mean that every part is always easy.。
It does get messy.。
So what I wanna do, I wanna invite you all to stand.。
And if you, whether it's for the first time。
or today again,。
want to make yourselves available to Jesus and say,。
Jesus, I don't wanna cut you out of my life。
or certain parts of my life.。
I want all of you.。
I want you to speak into my life.。
I want you to mess things up。
where things need to be shaken up,。
where you have something better than what is there.。
Then I wanna encourage you to stretch out your hands,。
and I would just love to pray over you.。
So you stretch out your hands。
as a symbol of just wanting to receive from Jesus right now.。
Jesus, I thank you so much that you love us so much。
that you don't just let us be,。
but that you have come here to reveal who you are。
so that we can know that you love us,。
you have come to shake us up in areas。
where we're living in brokenness。
or we're heading in directions。
where you have something else for us.。
I wanna pray right now。
for those who are stretching out their hands。
that you, yeah, as a surrendering you, Lord,。
we know that honors you.。
Will you meet them?。
Will you speak words of life, of encouragement,。
of goodness and direction, correction,。
whatever it is that they need, that we need, Lord.。
Will you speak those words to us?。
And will you shake things up?。
And will you bring what is good, what is life,。
what is beautiful?。
'Cause you are working, you are stirring, you're moving.。
And Lord, I ask that you forgive us。
where we've cut you out of our lives.。
Also pray for those who've been struggling。
with strongholds for a long time,。
or rather just seem to not be getting out of patterns。
of brokenness.。
Lord, I pray that in your power and by your name, Jesus,。
you break chains right now,。
that you break those addictions,。
that you break those areas。
where we just keep living in sin,。
that you bring us into your beautiful life,。
into your holiness, into your righteousness.。
So we thank you, we love you, and we worship you.。
And I pray all this in your name, Jesus, amen.。
Sing this out.。
♪ I'll never know how much it costs ♪。
♪ To see my sin upon that cross ♪。
♪ I'll never know how much it costs ♪。
♪ To see my sin upon that cross ♪。
♪ I'll never know how much it costs ♪。
♪ To see my sin upon that cross ♪。
♪ I'll never know how much it costs ♪。
♪ To see my sin upon that cross ♪。
♪ Oh, here I am to worship ♪。
♪ Here I am to bow down ♪。
♪ Here I am to say that you're my God ♪。
♪ You're altogether lovely ♪。
♪ Altogether worthy ♪。
♪ Altogether wonderful to me ♪。
♪ Here I am and here I am to worship ♪。
♪ Here I am to bow down ♪。
♪ Here I am to say that you're my God ♪。
♪ You're altogether lovely ♪。
♪ Altogether worthy ♪。
♪ Altogether wonderful to me ♪。
♪ To me ♪。
♪ We worship you ♪。
♪ Yes, we worship you ♪。
♪ You're worthy of all praise ♪。
♪ Yes, you are ♪。
♪ You're worthy of all praise ♪。
♪ Yeah, you're worthy of all praise ♪。
♪ We worship you ♪。
♪ Worthy of all praise ♪。
♪ Jesus, here I am to worship ♪。
♪ Here I am to bow down ♪。
♪ Here I am to say that you're my God ♪。
♪ You're altogether lovely ♪。
♪ Altogether worthy ♪。
♪ Altogether wonderful to me ♪。
- God, you're wonderful to us.。
You deserve our praise.。
And I know we are all welcome.。
We're so loved to be here, loved by you.。
And regardless of what stage we're in,。
what season we're going through,。
what struggles you're having,。
God's name's above all those.。
God's name's above all mess, all struggles.。
And Lord, we choose to believe in you.。
And brother and sister,。
I pray that you will all be encouraged today,。
walking out, your problems might not be solved right now.。
Your mess might not turn a mess now,。
but you know God is in the mess with you.。
And in the mess, there's blessings.。
And Jesus, I just pray that you protect us as we go,。
as we prepare for Christmas tomorrow,。
that not only we'll get into celebrations,。
but we'll know that you are here to give us joy,。
hope, love, and peace,。
that we can carry these into our lives,。
into our households, into our work,。
and into the streets, into schools.。
Help us to be the light in the world, Lord.。
In Jesus' name we pray, together we say, amen.。
Thank you, let's give a hand to God。
and for everyone for being here today.。
Yeah, I hope you feel encouraged.。
Tomorrow's Christmas.。
Remember, we have Christmas services tomorrow.。
You're welcome to be here at 9.30 and 11.30.。
Let's celebrate together.。
And parents, you're welcome to,。
feel free to pick up your kids as well.。
And also, it is our church practice。
that we really wanna bless you with prayers.。
So we have prayer warriors here in the side.。
Yeah, Ivan Benedict.。
Please come on up and receive prayers.。
If you have anything specific, they will pray for you.。
But if you don't know what to pray for,。
we do welcome you to come up and receive prayers。
and receive blessings as well.。
So thank you once again for coming and bless your church.。
(congregation applauding)。
♪ Jingle bell, jingle bell rock ♪。
♪ Jingle bell swing and jingle bells ring ♪。
♪ Snowing and blowing a full show of fun ♪。
♪ Now the jingle hop has begun ♪。
♪ Jingle bell, jingle bell, jingle bell rock ♪。
♪ Jingle bells chime and jingle bell time ♪。
♪ Dancing and prancing in jingle bell square ♪。
♪ In the frosty air ♪。
♪ What a bright time ♪。
♪ It's the right time ♪。
♪ To rock the night away ♪。
♪ Jingle bell time is a swell time ♪。
♪ To go gliding in the one horse sleigh ♪。
♪ Giddy up jingle horse, pick up your feet ♪。
♪ Jingle around the clock ♪。
♪ Mix and a mingle in the jingling feet ♪。
♪ That's the jingle bell rock ♪。
♪ Jingle bell, jingle bell, jingle bell rock ♪。
♪ Jingle bells chime and jingle bell time ♪。
♪ Dancing and prancing in jingle bell square ♪。
♪ In the frosty air ♪。
♪ What a bright time ♪。
♪ It's the right time ♪。
♪ To rock the night away ♪。
♪ Jingle bell time is a swell time ♪。
