Good morning after everybody and you know I love being back here.。
This is my favorite pulpit in the whole world.。
Well not the pulpit but today I want to share something special.。
Something very dear to my heart.。
At the Vine this year God has given us a vision。
for uncharted territories and Pastor Andrew asked me to。
bring a word of encouragement in that area.。
One of my personal uncharted territories that I have discovered this year。
is would you believe pickleball.。
Yeah.。
I have been well and truly hooked. You might say。
pickled on it. The rules are simple. The game is easy for beginners to。
learn but as I found it can develop into a fast-paced。
competitive game. I like that. Now the byproduct for me has been a。
whole new group of friends and fellow players.。
A community with a common denominator.。
That got me thinking about the importance of the workplace.。
Another community with an albeit slightly different common。
denominator.。
It's great we've just been able to pray for Hong Kong. Hong Kong is。
known for its highly fast-paced and competitive work environment particularly。
as a leading international financial hub.。
The idea for this talk actually came from an alpha meeting.。
Anyone likes alpha? Good. I was at recently。
and it was reported that globally only two percent of alpha courses。
are in the workplace whereas in Hong Kong that figure is。
actually 14 percent. Seven times. And that alpha courses have been。
conducted here in more than 50 industries and you'll。
see a picture of them on the screen.。
It got me thinking. If we as a church are serious。
about uncharted territories, surely, surely, surely。
one of our major priorities must be the reason this city is what it is.。
Its workplace and the approximately 3.8 million people in it.。
Do you know when people are not sleeping most of their time is spent working?。
The average Christian spends less than two percent of their waking time。
at church. And work was actually God's idea.。
Right at the beginning of scripture after God created the heavens and the。
earth and then man we read in Genesis 2.15.。
The Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to work it。
and to take care of it.。
What I'm going to share today is part of my。
personal journey. This picture I put up here.。
It tells a million stories.。
Almost everybody calls me Pastor John.。
I prefer saying I am John who happens to be a pastor.。
I came to Hong Kong in 1987 as a businessman. I loved my job.。
I was a general manager for the Hong Kong operation of AXA,。
one of the largest insurance companies in the world.。
I was a businessman for longer than I've been a pastor.。
33 years, three months, and three days.。
I mean not exactly but you know what three in Cantonese is, right? Good.。
And I'm often asked a question. How long, how long have you been in。
full-time ministry? My answer, I have always been in full-time。
ministry. Can I hear I meant to that? Are you there。
this morning? Good. The truth is the reality。
is I reached more people for Christ in the insurance industry。
than I do as a pastor. I spend far too much of my time now as a。
pastor with Christians like you.。
And I want to start off by destroying the myth。
that had me one day working for the dollar sign。
and the next day having a permanent halo on my head. Yeah right.。
Church history has consistently been ready to。
to conveniently put things into two boxes.。
Over here we have sacred and over here we have secular.。
This has not been my experience. In the early 80s I was a reasonably。
successful sales manager of a UK insurance company, a。
subsidiary of a merchant bank. When in my late 20s I realised。
I had everything, practically everything the world could throw at me。
in a material sense. But yet I had a gaping chasm in my heart.。
A Christ-shaped hole to be precise. I first saw this in other people who。
clearly had found something I didn't have and something I was looking for.。
And so I recommitted my life. The workplace became my mission field。
from day one as everyone was curious what had happened to me.。
Although I was the company's leading sales manager。
my lifestyle had been decidedly self-absorbed. To be honest。
foul-mouthed, driven, workaholic. But now。
I had a new boss and was willing to follow him。
to the ends of the earth. Literally.。
In 1987, I've got another picture for you, I was asked to consider to take my family。
my wife Sandra, my two sons Paul and Matt and even my old English sheepdog Bella。
to Hong Kong for three years. Don't believe that when anyone tells you that.。
For three years to start an investment services。
company for National Mutu, our new parent company.。
Our only previous visit to Hong Kong was 1981.。
Sandra took one look down Nathan Road and declared, "You won't get me living here。
in a million years." Moral, never say never.。
It wasn't that funny.。
Maybe it was. My arrival was coincident with the。
famous stock market crash of 1987. Black Monday. And I ended up。
with the toughest period of my business life and it was humbling.。
I wish I could tell the whole story but suffice to say that。
in that time God gave me a deep love for Hong Kong。
and a vision for his church and in particular for evangelism.。
And 38 years later I'm still here.。
And I can give testimony to 38 years of God's grace.。
My thinking on the topic of faith and the workplace。
has been heavily shaped by Ed Silvozo's book,。
"Anointed for Business." It's here I let you into a little secret.。
I'd always secretly harbored a desire to be a pastor.。
But this book and the group of insurance staff that I gathered around me to study。
it, we were called FISH, Fellowship of Insurance Staff in Hong。
Kong. It's good, eh? It told me this. It told me I already was a pastor.。
All work was worship and every Christian is a minister. I was a marketplace pastor.。
I learned through this book and through this time that。
every business is God's business. The notion that labour for profit。
and worship of God are now and have always been worlds apart。
is absolutely false. There is no sacred and secular divide.。
I mean look at the early church founders. They were mostly community leaders and。
highly successful business people. The writing of the gospels was trusted。
to Luke, a medical doctor. Matthew, a retired tax collector. Mark,。
the manager of a family trust. And John, a food supplier,。
a fishy food supplier. In the book of Acts, Lydia was a dealer in purple cloth.。
Dorcas was a clothes designer. And yet in modern times and often in how。
things are spoken about in today's church, the perceived wall between。
commercial pursuit and service to God continues to be a barrier to advancing。
the kingdom. I love this quote from Ken Costa in his。
book, God at Work. God loves you. God loves the work。
he has called you to. I want to push this a bit further. Perhaps some of you in the。
room are doctors. Doctors like Luke. Managers of family。
businesses like Mark. Merchants and retail owners like Lydia.。
Or even tax collectors like Matthew. Can you put your hand up?。
We'll pray for you afterwards.。
Each one of us is placed in a sphere of influence.。
And the question that we should be asking ourselves is,。
what does uncharted look like for me where I spend the majority of my time?。
Where I'm in my workplace? Where I am with my colleagues?。
And that is what I want to turn to in this message.。
I have three uncharted expectations for the workplace that I believe can。
really shift how we act, think,。
and live for the gospel in Hong Kong. And here is the first one. Number one, I。
don't have a job. I have a calling. I want you to realize that you。
are called.。
A simple illustration will help me. One day in 1671, Christopher Wren, the。
designer of St Paul's Cathedral in London,。
observed three bricklayers on a scaffold. One was crouched, one was half。
standing, and the other was standing tall, working。
very hard and fast. To the first bricklayer, Christopher Wren。
asked the question, "What are you doing?" To which the bricklayer replied, "I'm a。
bricklayer. I'm working hard laying bricks to feed my。
family."。
The second bricklayer said, "I'm a builder.。
I'm building a wall." But the third bricklayer, the most。
productive of the three and the future leader of the group,。
when asked the question, "What are you doing?"。
replied with a gleam in his eye, "I'm a cathedral builder.。
I'm building a great cathedral to the almighty."。
Friends, I am passionate. I'm passionate for you to see today that your work。
is not just like the man who described himself。
as a bricklayer. Your work is not about a monthly paycheck,。
although that's very important in Hong Kong, it's very expensive.。
It's not even like a builder as a means to build。
a successful career for yourself, even though that。
also is important. But I want you to see yourself as a cathedral builder,。
a kingdom builder. The fact is over 90 percent of Hong Kong people。
have yet to encounter the saving power of Jesus.。
And where do we find these people? I'll tell you where.。
In our offices, in our schools, or other places of work.。
40, 50, 60, 70, or even more hours per week.。
Can you see that you are not just called to lay bricks or even build walls?。
But there is a higher calling. It's a calling that's not。
just for pastors or church workers, but for the very people。
who are sitting alongside most of those who are working 40, 50, 60, or 70 hours a week.。
You. You. And you guys up there. One of my favorite all-time books is。
"The Call," written by Os Guinness, who I've had the privilege to。
meet on a number of occasions. He says this, "No idea short of God's call can。
ground and fulfill the truest human desire for purpose and fulfillment."。
But the Christian world often mistakes the word "call"。
for being called to what we call full-time ministry.。
That's wrong. Friends, I need to tell you something.。
You are called. You are called. Whether you're a preacher or。
people call you a super apostle, whether you're a bank manager, a school。
teacher, or a full-time mom, whether you minister to drug addicts or。
street sleepers, or you wash dishes in a cha-chan-teng,。
you are called. I think this raises an important question.。
Does our calling change, or is our calling always constant?。
And in a way, the answer is yes and no. Yes, in a way that we might。
shift our day-to-day work within the calling we have, like。
me from the marketplace to the church, but no in a sense that the。
calling is always to the bigger picture of the kingdom of God,。
regardless of what we do.。
My job today is to encourage you to see the big picture.。
And this is important. You might be wrestling with a。
nagging feeling that you have the wrong calling,。
or think God might have better callings than。
other callings. You might say, "I get John that we all have a calling, but。
as a lawyer, I have a lesser calling than you as a pastor." Surely,。
and to answer this, when we look at the first。
church in Acts chapter 2, post-Pentecost, we read。
this, Acts 2 47, "And numbers, and the Lord。
added to their number daily." Daily, daily。
those who are being saved. And where do we go。
daily? I guarantee it's not 22 Burroughs Street, Wanchai, unless your name's Andrew.。
One thing I've always been so grateful for。
here at the Vine over many years of God's grace, is。
always said to us that the church is not the four walls of the building.。
Ed Silvozo again, "As long as we believe that the church was born within four。
walls, we will always need four walls to have a。
church."。
Jesus lived on earth 33 years. I don't know if it's 33 years, three。
months, and three days by the way, but it was 33 years. Only three of them,。
only three of them are in what we call ministry.。
He was the carpenter's son. He was born in the marketplace. It's not。
difficult for Jesus' neighbors to see him as a businessman, as they may have。
purchased his products. Most of Jesus' followers remained in。
full-time business. This was possible because they saw the。
marketplace as their parish, and their business as their pulpit.。
To them, witnessing was not an occasional activity,。
but a lifestyle.。
The book of Acts unfolds the stories of believers who did more than tell people。
about Jesus in the marketplace. They also witnessed a steady stream of signs。
and wonders. I don't know if you know this, but in fact。
only one of the 40 extraordinary manifestations of God's。
power recorded in Acts happened in a religious venue.。
The healing of the lame man at the temple gate。
called "Beautiful." Most of the spiritual wonders were facilitated by people like。
Paul, Priscilla, and Aquila, who as ministry and。
business partners are classic examples of marketplace Christians.。
Today, millions of men and women are similarly called to full-time ministry。
in business, education, in government, the marketplace. Unfortunately,。
many of these marketplace Christians feel like。
second-class citizens when compared to people who serve。
full-time in the church or in a missionary context.。
This should not be the case. It is imperative that they realize。
not only is it okay to do ministry in the marketplace,。
but that God has specifically called them and anointed them for it.。
By anointed, I mean they have been chosen and empowered by the Holy Spirit。
for a divinely sanctured assignment. By ministry, I mean they can do more than。
just witness. They can bring transformation to their。
jobs and then to their cities as happened in the first century.。
Most marketplace Christians already know that their ministry and occupation。
are somehow connected, but they do not comprehend exactly how.。
Christian author Jean Evith says this, "The priesthood of all believers。
did not make everybody into church workers.。
Rather, it turned every kind of work into a sacred calling." I love this.。
Every kind of work into a sacred calling.。
My second uncharted expectation, I need to move on, is this.。
Do not wait until you think you are ready.。
I want to help you see that the opportunity is right here,。
right now. We've taken this verse, Mark 16, 15. He said to them, "Go into the。
whole world and preach the gospel to all creation."。
Now the background to this is Jesus had risen.。
He was about to go to the Father and he was giving his disciples instruction。
as to how the work of the gospel would continue.。
But what the church has done is we've taken this verse,。
which describes a call to evangelism, and made it out like it only applies to。
those that we discern have a gifting, have a calling for it.。
Those we deem to be evangelists. I'm here today to tell you that Mark 16,。
15 is not a command just for evangelists,。
but for all believers. If you've been a Christian for many years。
or just a few weeks, the call is the same.。
Go! Go! Go! And don't wait until you think you're ready.。
Don't think until you've learned enough scripture or experienced enough.。
The light is green.。
In simple terms, you go into the workplace and share the good news.。
I love this quote from D.T. Niles, "Christianity is one beggar telling。
another beggar where he found bread."。
I'm going to repeat that because I love that so much.。
Christianity, it's simple right? Christianity is one。
beggar telling another beggar where he found bread. And to demonstrate,。
I want to quickly look at a passage in 2 Kings 7.。
In the story, Jerusalem had been under siege。
and the people were about to die of starvation.。
Meanwhile, we read this.。
"Now there were four men with leprosy at the entrance to the city gate.。
They said to each other, 'Why stay here till we die?。
If we say we'll go to the city and the famine is there, we will die.。
But if we stay here, we will die. So let's go over to the camp of the。
Arameans and surrender. If they spare us, we'll live.。
If they kill us, we'll die.' Anyway, so they went over the camp,。
discovered that God had done something really amazing to frighten the attackers。
away, leaving food and precious possessions。
behind. It says this, verse 8, 'They ate and。
drunk and carried away silver, gold and clothes。
and went off and hid them. They returned and entered another tent。
and took some things from it and hid them also.'。
Then, that's the important word, 'Then they said to each other,'。
we're not doing right, 'This is a day of good news and we're keeping it to。
ourselves. If we wait until daylight, punishment。
will overtake us. Let's go at once and report this to the。
royal palace. This is a day of good news。
and we're keeping it to ourselves. We are like these beggars, only in our。
case we are spiritual beggars and we've found。
spiritual food. Then, like the lepers, we decide not to。
keep this good news to ourselves but to share it with our starving neighbours。
who may be sitting in the next desk or working in our department.'。
I mean, if we see a good film or we see a great TV show on Netflix。
or we go to a great restaurant, we invariably can't wait to get into。
work to share it, whether it be with our work。
colleagues or our IG friends. That is the simplicity of witness.。
Christianity is one beggar telling another beggar。
where he found bread. If you found bread and it's the bread of life,。
you're ready. My third uncharted expectation is。
your story may be the only story they will ever hear.。
I want to tell you nobody can repute your story.。
It is powerful. Famous 19th century evangelist D.L. Moody says,。
'Out of a hundred people, one will read the Bible.。
The other 99 will read the Christian.'。
Wow. I'm going to give you some tips to help you. My first tip is。
fly your flag early.。
It gets more difficult later on, I can tell you from experience.。
Fly your flag early. I'll be honest, I used to cheat a little bit.。
I used to wear a little small cross. I realise that's not for everyone,。
but I want to suggest a few quick ways that business people can fly their flag。
and give you some practical ways that you can do this。
in the office without making your colleagues feel。
they are getting bashed over the head with a Bible.。
Try conversation. What did you do at the weekend?。
It gives you maybe a chance to say something about being with Christian friends。
and what you've done or a church event without avoiding being over-religious.。
If someone is sick or has a problem, the words are, 'How can I pray for you?'。
Can we maybe try that all together? Ready? One, two, three.。
How can I pray for you? In 38 years in Hong Kong, no one's ever said no to that.。
I did have someone say no to me once on that. It was somewhere in Israel, believe it or not.。
But actually, when someone asks you, if you ask someone, 'Can I pray for you?'。
They never say no.。
I had everyone from Winnie the Tea Lady to senior management asking for prayer。
for all sorts of things. Next one, be an encourager.。
Don't get drawn into office politics, backbiting or negative talk.。
People will soon notice the difference and ask you why.。
Again, be gracious in sharing. Delay in flying your flag could lead to。
potential compromise and then the realization when they say,。
'Oh, I didn't realize you were one of them.'。
Secondly, make a connection. Find common ground.。
People like to talk about things they are interested in.。
If we show an interest in the things they are interested in,。
they might be more interested in what we have to say.。
When I was in sales, the first thing I'd do is look at someone's office,。
desk, bookshelf for clues. People like to talk about their hobbies,。
their families. Invite them out for coffee,。
or better still, happy hour.。
To get to know them rather than whatsapping them。
the latest church invitation.。
I'd love to go on, but I want to emphasize this one.。
Thirdly, look for opportunities. The Holy Spirit will give you windows.。
25 years ago, one of my team at work knocked on my door to ask me a。
question. She was thinking of leaving. I didn't know this at the time.。
She said, 'How have you been able to stay with the same company for 25 years?'。
I gave an answer that I wouldn't normally recommend.。
I just said, 'Jesus.' This prompted an hour conversation。
at the end of which she prayed a prayer to receive Christ.。
I prayed with her to be filled with the Holy Spirit.。
She came to the Vine. We were meeting in Regal Hotel at the time.。
She was very much part of the Vine. She was at the 915 service.。
I baptized her in Repulse Bay. Next week, yes!。
I married her and her husband in Union Church and。
dedicated their son also here at the Vine.。
That was a window. Your window might look different.。
But I want to encourage you to be ready when these doors open.。
Which leads me to my fourth tip. Fourthly, know your story.。
People can argue about theology. They do. But people cannot argue about your。
personal experience. What I was like before.。
How I met Christ. What difference has he made.。
In mission team preparation, we do what we call the one minute testimony.。
To tell someone in one minute what your life was like, how you met Christ, how it's changed.。
Find someone this week. Get them out for coffee and do。
practice the one minute testimony. That may be all the time you've ever got.。
As I said earlier, your story is maybe the first time。
that someone has opened up Bible truths to them.。
Everyone deserves the opportunity to hear. Just be open to being that opportunity.。
And you're not responsible for their response.。
Indeed, it might come years later. Earlier this year, I heard about two。
former colleagues from the late 90s recently coming to faith.。
And in the last month, three of our pickleball group。
have received Christ. Amen!。
Lastly, the most popular word in my sermon,。
let your actions speak. Sometimes we don't need to say anything.。
Actions speak louder than words is a popular idiom.。
There is a danger when our words and our actions。
don't match up. Consistency is the key. The reality of our social media driven age。
where what people are saying seems to have。
such big impact and oftentimes it is those who are keyboard warriors。
who are shaping the narrative of our cities and culture.。
I think it's a good reminder for us to live。
less online and more in the real world. To be more more of a Christian in our。
everyday moment than pretending to be one online.。
There's a common expression, "going the extra mile"。
it's found in Matthew 5.41. We can be the extra mile。
people in our workplace. That's what we're called to do.。
Loving people is important regardless of whether they end up saying the。
sinner's prayer or not. We are commanded to love people。
regardless of the surface result.。
Can I resolve, can I ask you, can I beg you。
that we resolve to take hold of this opportunity。
to set sail for these uncharted territories.。
Now I want to make time to pray for you all.。
I particularly want to pray for three groups.。
One, the younger people here just wondering what's next. I know there's a。
lot of that around. What is next? Where is my calling?。
Two, those older but thinking maybe of a career change.。
And thirdly, I know there are a few here today, those without a job currently.。
We'd really love to pray into that for you.。
If you are in these groups, we pray that God will help you。
see the big picture amongst all the practical considerations which are not。
taken lightly. That God will encourage you to build a。
cathedral, not just a wall or a row。
of bricks. As a church, we bless you especially if you're part of。
one of these groups. I'm going to ask you to stand. I'd love。
to pray for you. And the band come back please.。
I want to invite you to an。
ordination service. We're going to have an ordination service now.。
You're all going to be ordained as marketplace ministers.。
So we're going to pray for that.。
And I'm going to bless you and then we're going to pray for those particular。
groups of people. Would you just stretch your hands out?。
Holy Spirit, we know you're here. You've been here the whole time with us today.。
Holy Spirit, we need you. All the things I've talked about,。
we can't do it. We can't do it on our own. We need you.。
Holy Spirit, come and fill us afresh.。
Anoint me as a marketplace minister wherever I'm working or if。
I'm not working. Just anoint me and use me for your glory.。
I want to pray a blessing over you. May the love of God sustain us in our。
working. May the light of Christ radiate our。
thinking and speaking. May the power of the Spirit penetrate all。
our deliberating. And may all that is done witness to your。
presence in our lives.。
I'm going to ask some of you to be brave now and if you're in。
one of those three groups, if you're at the younger end of the。
scale, you just want to look. What's this about? Where's it leading?。
I don't know. What's next? If that's you, we'd love to pray for you.。
If you're older and are thinking about a career change, a change of path,。
or if you're not in a job at the moment, we'd love to pray for you. I'm going to。
ask you to be very brave. Can you just put your hand up if you're。
in those groups and we're going to pray for you.。
That's it. Keep your hands up because we're going to pray.。
I'm sure there's more. Good. What we're going to ask you to do, if you。
look around, if these people are around you, we love as a church to pray for each。
other. As we worship in a moment, just come。
around these people. Put your hands up high so we can see it.。
That's good. With those around us, see who's around you. Go and pray with them。
and just bless them. Just bless them in their situation.。
Encourage them and then we're going to worship God together.。
Let's start to pray. Come on church. Look out. Move out to people, church.。
Just pray for the one behind you. Over there.。
