delivers it now, in Jesus' name, amen.。
- Amen, thanks.。
Good morning, everybody.。
Oh, full, okay.。
Today's gonna be fun.。
We're gonna be going through the parables again.。
This is week two.。
And just a bit of a reminder,。
kind of a recap for all of us to get back on the same page,。
'cause I sometimes talk too fast,。
and I don't want anyone to get lost,。
so let me just kind of lay out what we're doing.。
Picking up in the parables, we're gonna remember。
and recall the idea that the purpose of parables,。
pretty simple, there's these big, profound truths。
about the kingdom of God, about the kingdom of heaven,。
about the Father, that can be challenging。
for us to fully grasp.。
So Jesus, knowing that, provided these parables,。
ways for us to be able to understand,。
for us to peel back into some of those layers.。
So using stories sometimes is the best way.。
So that's why we're doing this sermon series.。
We've got four parables.。
Last week, if you were here,。
Pastor Ellison walked us through the parable of the sower.。
We saw all the different ideas of where the seed is thrown,。
and ultimately the story and the meaning behind that。
was the soil of our hearts.。
We need to make sure the soil of our hearts。
is fertile ground for the word of God。
to actually be planted and to bloom and to live within us.。
This week, we're gonna turn our attention towards Luke 15,。
looking at the parable of the prodigal son,。
or the lost son, or the two sons.。
Now, this parable is, it's one of three, actually,。
in Luke 15.。
Why do I keep saying John?。
Luke 15.。
So Jesus starts off by talking about some sheep。
and about how there's all these sheep this guy has,。
and then he loses one, and he goes and finds it,。
and he rejoices, like, "Celebrate with me.。
"My lost sheep is back."。
And then he goes to a coin.。
This lady has a bunch of coins, and she loses one,。
and she looks everywhere and finds the one coin,。
and she celebrates.。
She says, "Guys, come celebrate with me.。
"Rejoice, I found my coin."。
And then, so he takes the sheep, the coin,。
and then he jumps like a massive level。
and then brings it to family.。
Talks about sons and about fathers。
and about the relationship,。
and ends up looking at lost sons and that whole journey.。
And so normally here at the Vine,。
what we would do is we would put up the text behind us,。
and we would all read it,。
or I would read it and you would watch.。
But in the spirit of this being a parable,。
I kinda wanna take us to that posture。
of what it would've been like to hear it。
for the first time.。
So back when Jesus was preaching,。
he didn't have PowerPoints.。
There wasn't a great creative team。
to make it all look nice.。
So we're gonna go back to that space just for a minute.。
You won't be able to read along.。
That's on purpose.。
We're not gonna put the scripture up.。
I'm gonna tell you the story.。
And one of the ways I feel like。
it can really help you dive into this。
is if you sit back, relax, take a breath, get comfortable,。
close your eyes, but don't fall asleep, okay?。
Okay, I saw someone at 9.15.。
I didn't clarify that the first time.。
Close your eyes.。
I'm just gonna tell you the story.。
I'm not actually gonna read it either.。
I'm gonna give you a rendition of it.。
And then what we're gonna do。
is we're gonna look at the characters,。
at what lessons is Jesus really wanting us。
to pull from this,。
and actually, hopefully, understand more about God。
and understand more about the kingdom of God.。
So let me pray, and then you can close your eyes,。
and we're gonna get started.。
Jesus, we thank you for your word.。
We thank you that you understood the human condition。
and that we sometimes need stories。
to really understand and wrestle with your truth.。
So Holy Spirit, would you just be with us this morning。
as we look at this story of the two sons?。
Would you open our eyes, open our ears。
to hear what it is that you want us to know。
about who you are, about the Father,。
and about the kingdom of God.。
We ask you these things in Jesus' name, amen.。
All right, eyes closed, here we go.。
There was a dude, there was a man,。
there was an older guy who had two sons.。
He had these two kids, and the youngest of the two kids。
was a little crazy.。
He was like, "Dad, give me my inheritance now."。
So Dad gave him his inheritance.。
He divided up his property。
and gave his son his inheritance early.。
And what did the son do?。
The son set off for a distant land, went far away.。
And he spent all of his money on wild, reckless living.。
And then, when he has no more money,。
just at that point, the nation that he's in。
goes into famine.。
They can't grow any food, there's no water,。
everything is tight and challenging,。
and he's hit rock bottom with money,。
and now the land he's in has no food,。
and there's no opportunity for him,。
and he's really looking for a place to go,。
and he doesn't have any money, so he tries to get a job.。
He can't find anyone to give him a job,。
so he sees this one position open,。
and it's a pretty unfun position, it's feeding pigs.。
So he takes the job feeding the pigs,。
and while he's out there feeding the pigs one day,。
making very little money, he's so hungry,。
I mean, he's desperately hungry,。
that the food the pigs are eating looks appetizing,。
so he wants to eat that.。
And then he has this moment where he comes to his senses,。
and he's like, hold on, in my dad's house,。
you know, the servants have food to spare.。
So he's like, you know what I'll do?。
I'll pack up my things, and I'll go back to my dad,。
and I'll tell him, dad, I've sinned against heaven,。
and against you, I'm no longer worthy to be called your son,。
but if you would just give me a position as a servant.。
So he got his little speech together,。
and he picked up nothing that he had,。
and just walked back, started going back.。
And while he was a long ways off, the father sees him,。
and his compassion, and his joy.。
He runs to his son, and throws his arms around him,。
and kisses him, and his son's like, father,。
I'm no longer worthy to be called your son,。
I have sinned against heaven, and against you,。
and the father stops him, and he's like,。
y'all, let's celebrate, go get the fattest cow we have,。
bring a ring and put it on his hand,。
grab some sandals for him, put a robe around him,。
my son who was lost is now found.。
So they did, they got a party together.。
And the older son who was there was out in the fields,。
and he was working, and he heard all this ruckus,。
and this noise, so he makes his way back over.。
He's asking the servants, what's going on?。
Servant's like, your brother who was lost is back,。
and your dad's killed the biggest cow that we have for him.。
So brother gets a bit annoyed and frustrated,。
so annoyed that he won't even go into the celebration.。
The father comes out, and pleased with his son,。
and his son's like, dad, I've been here the whole time,。
I've never disobeyed a word that you said,。
and you've not even killed a goat for me,。
for me and my friends.。
Dad says, you have me with you always,。
but listen, we have to rejoice, we have to celebrate,。
because your brother who was once lost is now found.。
You can open your eyes again.。
This is one of the most beautiful stories of love。
in all of scripture.。
It's incredible, right, but it's complex.。
It's deep, and it revolves around。
these three main characters.。
There's the father, there's the son who runs away。
and squanders all the money,。
and then there's the son who stays。
and has something to say to the dad.。
And I think what Jesus meant to do。
was for us to look at these three characters,。
look at the context of the story,。
and really understand what the kingdom of heaven is like,。
and what the father himself is like.。
So we're gonna do that by first looking at the first son。
and seeing what lesson does Jesus ultimately。
wanna teach us through this first son.。
So that first son, the one that runs away,。
gets the money, runs off, goes to a faraway land.。
I found this detail very interesting.。
He goes far away.。
He gets his money, rather than going next door。
or going to the neighboring,。
he goes to a distant land away from everyone。
to do his own thing.。
Doesn't wanna be in a relationship with anybody anymore,。
doesn't want any accountability,。
wants to go and do his own thing.。
So he does that, he emancipates himself,。
he removes himself from the family.。
He goes and he has no stewardship at all, no home training.。
He spends all his money and does a poor job budgeting.。
And once that's done, the land ends up in famine,。
which is terrible, so now he's hitting rock bottom.。
There's nothing he can do to get himself back up.。
He said he's eating the food of pigs,。
and I think we're all familiar with that part.。
His life literally couldn't get any worse,。
and I think it's really interesting,。
'cause I think maybe for lots of us。
who might have hit a version of rock bottom,。
we found this, in that moment of rock bottom,。
something clicks.。
He has a bit of an experience, something changes.。
It says that he comes to his senses.。
I think the first truth that we see。
around this parable is what repentance is.。
Repentance is much like coming to your senses.。
To come to one's senses would mean。
that whatever you might have believed prior to that moment,。
you now understand is incorrect, it was misleading.。
It was an illusion, or at best, it was incomplete.。
And all the son had done before,。
all his actions of reckless spending and running away。
and taking his dad's stuff was based off of his perspective,。
based off of the way that he saw things.。
And so to repent, that first stage looks like。
changing the way that we see, coming to our senses.。
To repent is to have a new perspective.。
It must mean that we have to think differently。
about our situation, about our sin.。
We must have that change of perspective。
and that coming to our senses.。
But we know, we all know that it doesn't end there, right?。
Repentance can't just be the way that you see things.。
It can't just be about more head knowledge。
or more information.。
Just because you understand more。
or because you have more information。
doesn't really make the change, does it?。
I mean, think about our culture today.。
We have access to the most amount of information ever。
than any period in history.。
That doesn't necessarily mean。
that things are changing for the better.。
What we don't need is necessarily more information.。
Sometimes what we do need is more obedience.。
And what does information do if there is no action?。
And so although, yes, repentance will start。
with that turning of the mind。
and more information being changed,。
it must lead, it mandates that we then turn our will,。
that we then turn our actions,。
that we then turn ourselves.。
You're probably wondering why am I saying the word turn?。
Well, the word repent itself means to turn.。
So if I'm repenting, if I'm walking this way,。
to repent would mean to turn around, right?。
So that's what this young man is doing.。
He is turning around in his mind and his perspective,。
but then he also physically turns around.。
He returns to the Father.。
He leaves his foolish thinking and his foolish living,。
and he makes his way back to the Father.。
And what Jesus partially tells us this story。
so that we can get to this next part,。
about what happens next,。
when we would turn and we would repent,。
which is actually the reason I was so excited。
about preaching this specific sermon。
is for this next section.。
The son that repents and turns, what happens to him next?。
The story goes that, well, the Father does something crazy,。
does something radical, something that is off script。
that no one would expect, right?。
The Father isn't reckless.。
The Father is responding to deep love.。
The Father is calculated.。
The actions of the Father。
are therefore interested in restoring.。
The text would say this,。
while he was a long way off, speaking of the son,。
his father saw him and was filled with compassion.。
He ran to his son, threw his arms around him and kissed him.。
The son said, "Father, I've sinned against heaven。
"and against you.。
"I'm no longer worthy to be called your son."。
But the Father said to his servants,。
"Quick, bring the best robe, put it on him.。
"Put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet.。
"Bring the fattened calf and kill it.。
"Let's have a feast and celebrate,。
"for the son of mine was dead and is alive again.。
"He was lost and is now found."。
So they began to celebrate.。
The Father is overjoyed to see the son again.。
He doesn't wait for the son to make it all the way back.。
He says, while he was a long way off,。
the Father sprints toward him.。
The son's not even close to being home yet.。
The Father doesn't even meet him halfway.。
This idea that God's gonna meet us halfway。
is not biblical, right?。
Like, God goes the whole way.。
Like, the son is all the way over there。
and the Father sees that he's turned around。
and is coming back and he runs towards him。
in compassion, overjoyed about this.。
And I think it gets me, what gets me is,。
when I try and visualize how beautiful this is,。
I think about my three-year-old son。
and how if there was a moment where he's coming to me,。
we used to live in Chonkwano。
and I used to get home from work late。
and it'd be around maybe like seven or something。
and my wife would leave our estate。
and start walking towards us and I'd be walking home.。
And the second I saw my son,。
I mean, I didn't physically run because it's hot in Hong Kong。
but my heart ran, I was thrilled, I was so excited.。
I could only imagine, you know,。
when I've not seen my son for a whole day,。
this dude's son has been in a different country.。
The condition and the appearance of the son is saddening,。
probably breaks his heart.。
So it probably pushes him even more into that moment。
but the father runs to him, drops everything。
and is filled with compassion to see his boy again.。
This is a decisive and aggressive, fervent love.。
It's extreme grace.。
And it's extreme grace because note this,。
the father could have just forgiven him.。
This would have been a beautiful parable。
if it was about how a son really messed up,。
I mean, as bad as it gets and he gets what he deserves。
and when he comes and tries to apologize,。
the father says, "Okay, you're forgiven."。
And that's the end of the parable.。
If that was the story,。
that would be a pretty powerful parable.。
But it doesn't just stop there.。
The father's love is so extreme.。
It's so extreme that the son tries to get out his phrase,。
"Father, I've sinned against heaven and against you.。
I'm no longer worthy."。
And I imagine the father just putting his hand。
to his son's mouth, saying, "Stop.。
You're my son.。
You're here.。
That's what matters."。
And the father doesn't just forgive him.。
The father reinstates him.。
Rather than saying, "All is forgiven.。
Your slate is clean."。
The father says, "Go get the best stuff we have.。
Get the best robe," he says.。
"Get a ring, get a sandal, kill the A5 Wagyu."。
Like he wants the good stuff for his son,。
who has just done all this mess.。
He does not just forgive us.。
He reinstates.。
And I think we have to come to the understanding。
that this is God's posture.。
This is the father's posture to us as well.。
Can we talk about how,。
if I put myself in the position of the son,。
forgiveness would have been great.。
But I wonder how he felt when his dad hugged him。
in that moment.。
I wonder what he felt when he's dirty and stinky。
and smelly and tired and exhausted and not worthy,。
yet his father throws his arms around him.。
Talk about getting more than you deserve.。
I feel like that motion probably,。
that moment probably flooded him with plenty of emotion。
to be received again.。
See, the father had no intention。
of making a repentant son a slave.。
I think we have to hear that for what it's really saying.。
Our father has no intention。
of making a repentant us a slave,。
but rather in his great joy,。
he restores us back to sonship and daughtership.。
It is joy that he does it.。
It's not because he has to,。
because he's God, because he's obligated.。
It's within his joy.。
And if you don't believe me,。
three different times it says it.。
In the first parable about the sheep,。
it says this, at the very end of it,。
he goes, "Rejoice with me.。
"I have found my lost sheep."。
When the parable gets to the next part about the coin,。
the woman says, "Rejoice with me.。
"I found my lost coin."。
When it gets to the son for the third time,。
"Rejoice and celebrate, be glad."。
There is joy that God feels about restoring you.。
When you come back, it is in his joy to bring you,。
not just to forgive you, but to reinstate you,。
to bring you into the family of God.。
Because in that space,。
there is a relationship that is restored.。
In that space, there is hope, there is meaning,。
there is identity.。
He wants to provide all of that for us.。
This restored identity is a theme。
that we cannot afford to overlook.。
There's something to be said about how identity。
and relationship are major threads into this story,。
and into the kingdom of God as a whole.。
I think that's why this story。
is drenched with identity imagery.。
Did you notice how every main character。
isn't referred to by their name?。
Or by their job?。
It's the father, it's the son, it's the other son.。
Who they are communicated as is based off of relationship.。
Relationship is so important.。
It elevates the meaning of this parable.。
Let me think about it this way.。
What if this parable wasn't called the prodigal son?。
What if it was called the prodigal friend?。
You guys know Jethro, who leads worship here,。
stunning young man with the guitar.。
He's a good friend of mine.。
If Jethro took my money and went to Indonesia,。
love you Jethro, and spent it all,。
and got what he deserved, lost his money,。
and is eating pig food, comes back to Hong Kong,。
and is like, bro, I'm sorry.。
Okay, well, first of all, I'm a pastor,。
so I'm gonna say yes, Jethro, I forgive you, right?。
That's what pastors and Christians do.。
But if my son, Elias, made the same mistake,。
hear this, it would hurt significantly more.。
It really would.。
It would tear me apart.。
But if he came back, that joy would be ridiculous,。
and I would not stop at saying, you're forgiven, son.。
I'll go do your thing.。
You're forgiven, come be a servant.。
No, I would throw my arms around him, 'cause he's my boy.。
He's my kid, he's me, right?。
And I think if you understand this story,。
you understand the power of family,。
that's what Jesus is talking about.。
It's not just about the forgiveness of the sin,。
it's about the ultimate goal being restoring us。
into the right identity.。
The scriptures talk about this all over the place.。
Why do you think it is that we're called sons and daughters。
of God, children of God?。
When Jesus would teach the disciples to pray,。
which I find very fascinating,。
the one thing they tell him is, teach us this.。
They could tell him, they could ask him, teach us anything.。
He says, teach us how to pray.。
So Jesus says, okay, fine, I'll teach you how to pray.。
At that time, their posture towards divinity。
was that God is holy, God is Yahweh,。
we gotta be careful, make sure we don't sin too much,。
go through all these rituals.。
And he says, when you pray, pray like this.。
Our father, relationship.。
Not our extreme maker who is bigger than everything。
or Elohim or our father.。
There is something so significant。
in this relationship identity concept。
that the scripture wants us to understand,。
and it's because of this.。
As children of God, we get certain perks.。
There are things that happen within the family。
that won't happen outside the family.。
The way I love my son would be inappropriate。
for me to love any other person that way.。
The way I love my spouse or my daughter。
would be very different。
than the way I'm gonna love my friends,。
or the way I'm gonna engage with my friends.。
See, when you're in the family, there's something different.。
There's a grace that's for the family,。
there's a certain compassion that's for the family.。
The family deeply matters.。
And I think about how my son, although he's three,。
and let me just say, I overestimated three, y'all.。
He is, whoo, he's perfect, but man, I'm stressing.。
He does a lot of stuff, and I can never,。
I can't think of a reason that I would never love him.。
Like, I would love him no matter what.。
Like, he's great, but he's three, but he's great.。
But then there's you guys who, I like you,。
but I'm sure there are things you can do。
to make me stop liking you real quick.。
All right, some of you don't have to try that hard.。
It's pretty easy for some.。
But not with my kid, not with my family.。
And God has this posture towards us.。
That's why the ultimate blessing,。
the ultimate thing we can receive is not a gift,。
a Ferrari or a better job。
or a more stable relationship at home.。
The ultimate gift we can get。
is to be brought back into his family.。
That's what Emma was talking about.。
By the blood of Jesus, we're not just forgiven,。
we're brought into his family.。
This is how God intended humanity to be.。
In relationship with him, heirs of his,。
made to be like him, protected by him, his children.。
This is why Jesus in John three。
would speak to Nicodemus at night and he would say,。
"You must be, you must be born again.。
"You must be born into this family。
"because if you are in this family,。
"there is no sin that is deep enough。
"to separate me from you.。
"When you're mine, you're mine,。
"and I will go through anything to get you back."。
And this story ultimately is illustrating。
that exact thing, the perks that come。
with being sons and daughters of God.。
By repenting of our sins, by turning from our wrongdoings,。
as a child of God, know that you have access。
to the most extreme grace that there is.。
Now, we've talked about two characters.。
We've first looked at the crazy son,。
we've looked at the father and the grace。
that is just flowing from him,。
but there's a third character that we cannot overlook。
and the only way to really understand him。
is to understand the context of this parable.。
This parable, it's something that maybe is good。
for all of us in our basic Bible reading。
and scripture studying.。
It's always good to ask ourselves,。
how did we get to this point?。
Jesus might say something wild.。
Ask yourself, what made him say that?。
I think if we ask ourselves this question in this parable,。
why is Jesus telling a parable about sons?。
What is he responding to?。
What is making him tell this story?。
If you look at Luke chapter 15 at verse two,。
you get this context of the Pharisees。
who are the religious leaders of the day,。
the tax collectors and sinners, the degenerates,。
the worst of society, all gather together。
around to hear Jesus and the Pharisees,。
the teachers of the law, they muttered,。
so not intended to be heard, to one another,。
they say this, this man welcomes sinners。
and eats with them.。
This is our context.。
The fact that Jesus, the one who does the big miracles,。
the one claiming to be the way, the truth and the life,。
this holy man is spending his time。
with the worst of society.。
What's this guy really thinking?。
Like, can you be God and spend time with such filthy people,。
with the worst people, the cheaters, the liars,。
the prostitutes, the tax collectors, the thieves,。
the worst that society has to offer,。
yet Jesus is sharing meals, spending his time with them.。
So they say something about it.。
They don't have the courage to say it to Jesus,。
so they say it to one another, they mutter it,。
this man is hanging out with the worst people.。
And in response to that, Jesus hears it,。
he knows their heart.。
In response to that, he tells them this trilogy of parables,。
about coins, about sheep, and then ends with the big one。
about family, about the sons.。
And I think it's interesting that this ending,。
the story that he tells, talks about a father,。
talks about the degenerate, it talks about the holy.。
That's what the parable's about, right?。
The son, the father, and the other son.。
The people in this room, there's Jesus,。
who claims to be God, the father.。
There's the holy ones, the Pharisees,。
who know all the laws, who do everything right.。
And then there's the tax collectors and the sinners.。
See, there's the people in this room,。
and the sinners, see, there's a lesson。
Jesus wants us to see.。
He's using this story to tell the Pharisees。
and the sinners about how God sees sinners.。
So that's something we can't afford to miss in this.。
How does God see the sinner?。
When he's telling this story, I imagine that,。
you know, the crowd is expecting that if this son。
did this much damage, he takes his dad money and runs off.。
When he comes back, they're probably expecting,。
he's probably not gonna get brought back into the family.。
He's gonna get rebuked.。
He's gonna get told off, get scolded, maybe lectured.。
But Jesus is clever with his wording.。
Jesus says that the father welcomes the son.。
Well, what's the first accusation about what Jesus。
is doing in that moment?。
Back in chapter two, or in verse two,。
it says that they are annoyed and frustrated.。
This man welcomes and eats with sinners.。
In the story that Jesus tells, what happens?。
The father, this great man, welcomes back his son,。
puts the clothes and puts the robe。
and brings him back into the house, and then he does what?。
He takes them to lavash and they have a meal, right?。
They kill the fattened cow.。
He welcomes and he eats in the story and in the accusation.。
Jesus is being direct in story form.。
He's providing groundbreaking revelation,。
making it clear that God is not just our creator.。
He's not just powerful Yahweh, but he's father.。
And how does he see the sinner?。
How does the father see the sinner?。
Well, this is where it's key.。
For the sinner who will come to their senses,。
who will recognize their sin,。
and who will just attempt to make his way back home,。
how does the father respond?。
With ridiculous grace, with extreme grace,。
going way beyond what you need, what you want,。
beyond forgiveness into restoration, he brings you back in.。
Jesus tells this parable so that they would understand。
that if God comes down to earth,。
he's not hanging out with the holy people.。
When God comes down to earth, he's going for the lost.。
He's spending his time with those who are broken,。
those who are vulnerable.。
He's not gonna be concerned about maintaining his privilege。
or his status as God.。
He's gonna be with those who are broken.。
And if you think that God only cares for you。
if you do a good job with those who are within the church。
or those who have it right,。
then you might know the rules of God,。
but you don't know his heart.。
That's what Jesus is saying in this parable.。
It becomes so clear that the religious leaders,。
they don't actually know the father at all。
'cause they couldn't be more wrong。
about how he would respond.。
And this is why because they are the religious leaders.。
They set the climate, the temperature of what it means。
to be a follower of Yahweh, to have good spirituality.。
And it's clear from this that they don't even know the father。
because they would see it as,。
well, we're Pharisees, these are sinners.。
It would say in the Gospel of Matthew。
that Pharisees were very concerned about their status,。
about being upright, about they would dress a certain way。
when they went outside the streets.。
They would pray in a certain voice,。
pretty loud to be heard when they fasted.。
They were a bit dramatic about it,。
like soccer players and flopping.。
They were like, oh, I'm fasting,。
making sure everyone knew that they were fasting.。
They were all about the image and the appearance.。
Well, Jesus is contrasting himself with them。
because just like the Pharisees,。
Jesus sees that these are tax collectors.。
He knows.。
He knows that Matthew was cheating people from their money.。
He knew about Zachariah's problem.。
He knows that they're prostitutes.。
He knows their sin.。
Think back to John four, the woman at the well.。
He knows that she has multiple husbands, right?。
But what does he do?。
His privilege of being God。
does not stop him from coming close.。
Hear that.。
Because he's God doesn't mean he won't come close to our mess.。
Jesus would spin this story around。
telling of a prodigal son。
and telling of the position of our attitudes。
and the attitude of the older brother。
as being most clearly reflected in that of the Pharisees。
who are, get this,。
kind of just when you think about it like this,。
it creates, drives me,。
the Pharisees are holding Jesus's compassion against him.。
That's a hard way to look at it.。
Because he's so compassionate, they're angry.。
And this is exactly what you see in that final brother,。
that last kid.。
That's why you have to know the context.。
Because of Jesus' compassion, they're angry.。
Well, look at that older brother, what happens with him?。
He's angry that the younger brother。
who's been reckless and wild,。
whose life has been falling apart,。
comes back home and the father throws his arms over him,。
gives him all this stuff, gives him the fatted calf,。
celebrates and is rejoicing with him.。
The older son and the Pharisees share the same perspective.。
And as I studied this,。
I knew there were a lot of obvious points to make,。
but there was something that hit me for the first time.。
So the way the story goes is that the younger brother,。
when he gets what he wants from dad,。
he runs to a different land, right?。
He goes far, far away, like Jethro going far away.。
The older brother says,。
I stayed in your house the whole time.。
I was close to you.。
I was always obeying you, doing exactly what you wanted.。
So how then does the older brother。
who has stayed close to the father。
know the details of the sin of the younger brother?。
The younger brother was in a distant land.。
The older brother stayed close to dad.。
It's easy to say that, right?。
I've stayed close to you.。
I've done what you're supposed to do.。
How does he know what the brother is doing?。
Has he hired a spy?。
Does he have a scouting report on what his brother's doing?。
How is he aware?。
I mean, because you would think。
that to be in the father's house,。
your focus would be on the father.。
Hear that?。
See, the older brother is more focused。
on gathering a report of what the younger brother。
has done wrong.。
He has, maybe he's remained in the house,。
but he has not abided in the father。
because the father is compassionate,。
whereas the older brother is judgmental.。
While in the father's house,。
focused on the wrongdoings of others.。
This is the heart of the Pharisees.。
This is the way that they naturally found themselves.。
But I think we have to be careful。
because sometimes this can be us.。
This can be you and me sitting in this room.。
I think we have to ask ourselves these questions regularly.。
Are we becoming more like Christ in his love。
for the broken, for the worst of humanity,。
or becoming more self-righteous?。
We just wanna see them get what they deserve.。
Before we dismiss it quickly,。
because no one likes the title of self-righteousness,。
remember this, the Pharisees had all the laws memorized.。
They did it all right.。
They were the ones who prayed with the best words,。
and they were the ones who fasted regularly,。
and they had memorized the first five books of the Bible.。
I mean, they got it, they understood it.。
They were like the pastors of the day.。
I think we can come in every Sunday,。
and we can raise our hands during worship,。
or clap when Emma starts talking about the blood of Jesus.。
You know, amen.。
We can take our phones out and take a photo。
when there's a tweetable line in the sermon,。
but does that mean anything?。
Because that's not the indicator。
of the transition that we have to be going through,。
of the transformation that God really intends。
for those of us who remain here with him.。
To be offended by God's heart for the lost.。
This is their attitude, even though they do everything right.。
And I think we've gotta be careful。
to make sure that just because we come,。
we don't end up in that place,。
looking at, oh, God, I've done all these things,。
and they've done nothing.。
We don't wanna be those kinds of people.。
I don't want us to be those kind of people.。
Our proximity to Christ isn't a badge we wear。
that makes us better than other people.。
It's not.。
It's not our permission to point and say,。
look how bad they're doing.。
Doesn't give us a right to get online。
and blast everyone that's not a Christian。
for the ridiculous things that they might do.。
Guess what, they're not Christians.。
Imagine that.。
No, our proximity to God is meant to draw us close to him。
so that we can be transformed by him.。
Being close to God is less about being holier than others.。
It's more about becoming like him,。
becoming extreme in our grace,。
choosing compassion over judgment,。
oozing with compassion.。
When our brothers and sisters are lost,。
being excited to see them come home,。
co-laboring with the Father.。
That's my heart for me, my family.。
That's my heart for us as a community.。
That in our weekly gatherings,。
in the gatherings that take place outside of Sundays here,。
that we would be growing in our likeness of God.。
That our hearts would be becoming softer。
and being more like his.。
That he would replace the heart of stone。
and give us a heart of flesh.。
That he would wipe away the scales from our eyes,。
and we would see people the way that he sees them,。
being shaped like him.。
That we would be broken for the loss,。
the way that he's broken for the loss.。
And that we would rejoice when they come home.。
We would rejoice when they repent.。
And for me, where I find this most challenging,。
I have to ask myself this.。
Would I be rejoicing, celebrating,。
and the worst person that I know,。
most filthy person that I know,。
the liar, the cheater,。
the one who's weaseled their way, who's offended me,。
comes into God's family,。
and he gets the exact same privilege as I do.。
Can I celebrate at that?。
Because I think it's that what drives the son crazy.。
It's not just that he's forgiven.。
It's that he's now restored to the same level.。
And that blood of Jesus, like Emma said,。
that is our ultimate equalizer.。
That's what makes us all be able to be。
on the same level again.。
And that's what the father is ultimately showing us。
through all of this.。
Now, with all this repentance and grace,。
I think there's one last question。
that I want us to kind of wrestle with a little bit。
before we get to a closing point.。
See, what do you think those who were sinning,。
those who were the sinners,。
Jesus was having dinner with them, right?。
What do you think they were thinking?。
How do you think they felt when the holy teacher, Jesus,。
talks about God welcoming sinners?。
What do you think their feelings were in that moment?。
Because they would be well acquainted with their sins.。
They know where they've fallen short.。
I wonder if when they hear that the father welcomes back,。
kills the shattered calf,。
puts the ring on the arm, on the finger,。
I wonder if maybe goosebumps happened, you know?。
I wonder if like they might have gotten choked up。
a little bit, maybe a lump in their throat,。
maybe a little heavy breathing.。
Because to know that God is going to respond。
with such grace if we repent can be liberating.。
It can lead us to actual repentance.。
I think this is what Jesus is trying to show us。
with this whole story.。
Could it be that by learning of the father's posture。
for restoring those who are lost,。
some of their hearts are softened?。
Could that be the same for us?。
That if you ask yourself this,。
if you could really understand。
that no matter what it is that you've done,。
it doesn't matter how bad it is, I mean the worst thing,。
if you were to have a come to your senses moment,。
if we were just to turn,。
remember you don't have to have it all right yet,。
if we were just to start that journey back home,。
the father doesn't just say,。
"Good job, thanks for not sinning anymore."。
He rejoices, like joy, happiness, celebration,。
let's throw a party, that's his response.。
The scriptures would say that the angels in heaven。
are celebrating over this.。
I wonder if we could get that.。
How would that impact our desire。
or our courage to actually repent?。
Oftentimes repentance is seen as this doom and gloom thing.。
What this shows is that repentance。
is something that's met with joy.。
We don't have to be all serious and sad when we repent.。
We come back to God and he's excited to have us.。
He loves us, overflowing with joy.。
If we understand that repentance is a joyful moment,。
would we dare repent more?。
Could it be something that we would do regularly?。
'Cause here's the thing, this is what Satan's trying to do.。
Here's the big picture, go back to Genesis for a second.。
When Adam and Eve sin in the garden,。
they take the buyer of the apple,。
they recognize that they're naked, and what do they do?。
They hide.。
They distance themselves.。
They separate, sin separates us from God,。
but this is what grace does.。
Grace says that if you would come to your senses,。
if you would put your faith in Jesus,。
if you would understand that he is the way,。
the truth, and the life,。
if you would just make an effort to come towards him,。
you don't have to get it all right,。
but if you would just take a step, he'll meet you.。
He'll sprint towards you, and he will be so glad.。
Not just to forgive,。
but to make you a part of the family again,。
to make you an heir, someone who gets things from him,。
someone who is loved by him,。
someone who is protected by him, taken care of by him.。
Guys, I pray this is something that we can understand。
and fully get.。
I pray that the courage needed。
from an understanding of the extreme grace of the Father。
would find its way to you,。
because repentance is a bit of an invitation.。
It's God making it clear that you're welcomed back。
and you're wanted back.。
So I think we all need to keep this in mind.。
You're wanted.。
God wants you in his family.。
If he didn't, he would just forgive you。
and let you on your way,。
but he wants you to be a part of that family.。
He wants you to be under that covering,。
under that protection.。
He desires to see you not just forgiven of your sin.。
John 3, 16, "For God so hated sin。
"that he came into the world."。
No, for God so loved the world.。
His posture is love towards you.。
He desires to see you flourish, to see you at peace,。
to see you the way that he's intended your life to be.。
And that takes place when we're able to turn from our sins.。
Here, I wanna leave us with this.。
As the worship team makes their way up,。
there is one of my favorite C.S. Lewis quotes,。
and if you don't know who C.S. Lewis is,。
Ananias series is incredible, please read it.。
It'll enrich your life.。
But Lewis, in one of his books called。
"The Screwtape Letters," which is a book。
where demons are writing letters to Satan about people.。
Very wild, very crazy, but very insightful.。
This one demon is writing,。
and he says this about the human effort,。
about the divine satisfaction and love.。
And it is profound and it blows my mind。
and it stays with me.。
I've written songs about it.。
I've talked about it all the time.。
I wanna leave you guys with it。
'cause I hope it can help you.。
It says this, "He," meaning the father,。
"He wants them," meaning us,。
"He wants them to learn how to walk。
"and must therefore take away his hands.。
"And if only the will to walk is really there,。
"he is pleased," get this, "even in their stumbles."。
Guys, for lots of us, it won't be a clean walk home.。
For lots of us, it will be stumbles.。
It's not an easy route back,。
but here's the thing, the heavy lifting is done by him.。
He's gonna carry you through.。
He's your strength.。
He is the rock that you build your hope on.。
He is your strong tower.。
He is your ever present help in times of need。
and in times where you don't realize that you have need.。
Even in our stumbles, he will be pleased。
and he will be with us.。
So God, we come to you this morning。
and we recognize and are overwhelmed by your grace,。
by your extreme fervent love,。
by love so extreme that it welcomes in the sinner.。
It welcomes in those of us who are Christians。
and who have made such terrible mistakes。
that we're afraid to come to you.。
It welcomes, it dines with, it reinstates,。
and it restores us.。
So Holy Spirit, there are so many lies。
and so many fears about being judged by God,。
but to the one who would return,。
there is this truth that your love should cast out our fear,。
that your love is enough,。
that the blood of Jesus runs deeper。
than anything your child or children could do.。
And so God, help us not just believe it,。
but Holy Spirit, would you put that as a seed into our heart。
and would you keep that soil fertile so this grows in us。
into a tree of understanding that you want us。
and you welcome us.。
And no matter what we've done,。
if the thief on the cross could get in at the last minute,。
it doesn't matter what we've done,。
if we would turn to you,。
we will find hope, we will find a father。
who isn't waiting to beat us, but who is overjoyed.。
God, for those of us who feel distant,。
who feel like we can't talk to you。
'cause our sin is so bad, I rebuke that lie.。
Holy Spirit, would you come in and speak your truth?。
Would you remind that light shines best in darkness,。
that you came not to be served, but to serve us,。
that those of us who are sick,。
those of us who are in need of you,。
that's who you came for.。
Lord, would you open our hearts,。
lead us to that coming to our senses moment。
and give us the courage to turn our hearts,。
our minds, our postures, and our will back to you.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
you。
