Thank you, Tim. Can we put our hands together for Tim?。
Right, so me and Roslyn, we've been married for a few years and throughout the whole time,。
okay, she's sitting here. She wasn't here on the first service, she's here right now.。
So throughout the whole time we've been together, she actually, she's bought me two pens.。
I'm going to show you today. And she's like, "What?"。
So the first one I'm going to show you, one of it, it's a very, very nice Montblanc fountain pen.。
It's very, very nice. One day she just started, you know, she realized I started using this kind of pen,。
trying to look I'm very cultured, and so she bought me one of these.。
But this is not what I want to talk about today.。
The other pen that I actually want to show you and talk about is this pen she bought me.。
So I'll show you this side, I guess. So I believe what caught your eye about the very first moment,。
it's this huge rock sitting on top of this pen. And don't worry, I can guarantee you 100%, this is fake.。
Don't worry about that. She actually bought this two weeks after I brought a real diamond ring,。
flew all the way from Hong Kong to Singapore, got down on one knee,。
asked the most important question in my life, and she said yes to it.。
And after two weeks, she bought me this. So when she can show off her ring, and I can show off this one as well.。
That's what I do, I love it. And speaking of diamond rings,。
I wonder if any guys, married men in the room, you still kind of recall or remember that ache from breaking your bank?。
Anybody? Okay, you don't have to put up your hands. I'm not going to embarrass you.。
I don't want you to be in trouble. But I, hi sweetheart.。
I don't know when you were looking for the perfect ring, were there any friends around you who said,。
"Hey, you know what, I got a contact. I got someone who does this kind of business,。
and I surely have those kind of friends." And I remember when I started this journey looking for the perfect ring,。
so-called, I don't know if she feels the same, but when I was trying to look for the perfect ring,。
at the beginning I had a, actually I have a number, I have a figure inside, an amount of money inside of my head.。
That was referencing a friend of mine a while back when he did the thing, proposed, and I had an amount in my head.。
And so then my friends who have contacts started approaching me and giving me these contacts.。
So I just randomly messaged one, and that person just got back and sent me a few different pictures,。
and then you know, those details about the diamond, and then the numbers, the amount,。
and I'm like, "Wow, the lowest amount, amount of all those rings, it's double the price of what I had in mind."。
And so that's okay, another friend of mine said, "Hey, you have to check my friend out, or this shop out."。
But that one, I have to go to one of these commercial center or buildings, I have to take an elevator all the way up,。
enter the shop, and sit down, and then there they present the rings to me, or the diamonds to me,。
and when they took out the diamonds, the cheapest diamond there was double the price of the most expensive diamond I received on WhatsApp.。
And so I was asking myself, "What can I say to get out of this place as soon as possible?。
How can I just run away?"。
But then this other question just popped up in my head that said, "But is she worth it?"。
[Audience "Ooooh"s]。
Like...。
[Laughter]。
I'm a bit embarrassed right now.。
Yeah, so after all, I just, you know, my butt just stick to the chair, I just sat there, and then I tried to, you know,。
pick and look according to those four C's, you know those four C's?。
Color, Cut, Carat, and Clarity, I still remember a little bit of it.。
And I swiped the card, and a couple weeks later I brought that ring with the diamond, you know,。
flew all the way to Singapore, and the rest is history.。
So, there at the diamond shop that day, I faced a question, or a choice,。
which actively required me to evaluate how much was I willing to give,。
or how much was I willing to sacrifice for the person whom I claim I love,。
and wanted to spend the rest of my life with.。
And I realized, yes, that now includes you as well, honey.。
And I realized, while we always say love is intangible, love is actually measurable.。
Love is measured by sacrifice. Can I get an amen for that?。
So actually that echoes with what Jesus told his disciples or his friends the night before he went to the cross.。
Jesus says this, and it's recorded in John 15 verse 13, he said,。
"Greater love has no one than this, to lay down one's life for one's friend.。
The greatest love one could ever have for another person is expressed in an act of self-sacrifice."。
This is the agape love that we talked about a couple weeks ago.。
Of course, here Jesus, when he talks about this love, he's referring to the sacrifice he's going to make for his friends.。
That's you and me here.。
And the apostle actually used marriage as one of his imageries to portrait the relationship between Christ and his bride, that is the church, that's us.。
You know, the groom would have to pay a price to make a sacrifice, to prepare a gift for the bride,。
to invite her into a covenant relationship for eternity.。
And in the same way, Jesus, he has paid a price on the cross to prepare eternal life as a gift,。
to invite us, his bride, into this eternal covenant relationship with him.。
Love always seeks a gift rather than to take.。
That's what Jesus is.。
That's how his love looked like.。
Love is measured by sacrifice.。
And as we enter this kind of relationship with Jesus, with God, we would find ourselves often first at this receiving end of this agape love.。
But as this sacrificial love starts to impact us, impact our hearts and our souls,。
and we realize our hearts will start to respond to this kind of love.。
Often this love we have for God in response to his love for us, we normally express it through an act called worship.。
So part of worship is basically showing gratitude to God who loves us and cares for us.。
And you may find a lot of worship songs that are written, you know, on this theme that,。
"Oh, how great is your love, God. Thank you for your love. Your love is amazing," and so on and so on.。
It's written or sung in response to the love of God for us.。
But as we are drawn deeper into this relationship with God, as we begin to know who he is,。
and by knowing I'm not talking about information, I'm not talking about hat knowledge,。
I'm talking about heart knowledge, the word that's in the Bible is called "dinosco,"。
it means experiential knowledge, it means intimacy.。
As we grow deeper in our intimacy, in our relationship with Jesus,。
and we don't just worship him or praise him because of what he has done for us,。
we start to realize who he is, and we praise him for who he is.。
That's the first song we sang just now this morning.。
We praise him for who he is, for all the amazing attributes, all his character, his nature.。
That's what we do. And we simply sing songs to him or praise him because he is God, he is the almighty Yahweh.。
The English word "worship" actually comes from a much older English word.。
It's called "worth-ship," which means ascribing or recognizing worth, value, or honor to someone。
or something. So we also have songs that describe who God is.。
We sing these songs like, "God, you are worthy, you are mighty, you are powerful," and so on and so on.。
So here we see worship actually starts with us recognizing who God is。
and receiving his agape, sacrificial love, and out of that experience, our hearts respond in gratitude.。
And we start to give him back the same kind of self-giving love.。
And therefore, in worship, we often find ourselves not just on the receiving end of God's love,。
but that love also moves us to a place where we want to give and offer something to God.。
We offer him a praise, a worship, a thanksgiving, etc., etc.。
But here's the thing, church. For the past couple of minutes when I've been talking about worship,。
probably what we were thinking inside of our head, the images we have in our heads, are songs.。
Or maybe the three songs we just sang at the beginning of the service, or the act of singing,。
maybe that's what you're thinking about. But imagine if you're having a conversation with an Israelite。
who lived in the Old Testament times, and when you mention the word "worship,"。
he would probably have a very different picture or image in his mind.。
If you say to him, "Hey, come on, let's worship," he would say, "Where's the animal? Where's the animal?"。
You see, for the Israelites who are rooted in their identity as God's chosen people,。
worship is not just something they do occasionally on a Sunday morning.。
While, yes, it still involves singing, or the songs of praise, all that, but it goes way beyond that.。
Worship has to take place, first of all, in a certain place, the temple.。
Because that's where God actually lives. The God of the universe, he lives inside this human-made temple.。
The temple is the only place on the entire planet where heaven and earth actually meet.。
That's where God, he dwells. And that's the hot spot of God's presence.。
And worship is all about entering into this presence of God, who is the ultimate source of joy and love。
and peace and happiness and blessings, so we can enjoy that relationship with him.。
The problem is, as human beings, we're separated from this holy God by our sins,。
by the evil thoughts and deeds that have polluted our hearts and our souls and our entire being.。
We cannot approach God. I know I'm a sinner, and I know I have contributed to the evil in this world around us.。
If the God of justice is going to do something about it, the simplest way, or the simplest thing to do。
is to remove me from the face of the earth.。
But the God of justice, our God of justice, he's also a God of mercy and of grace.。
He doesn't want anyone of us who was made in his image to perish.。
So he gave us a way out by allowing an animal to die in our place.。
And so that animal would become our substitute.。
And therefore, in the Old Testament, when a sinful human being wants to approach the presence of God,。
wants to worship him, wants to receive and enjoy his love and his goodness,。
it requires the sacrifice of an animal to die in his or her place.。
In the Bible, it's called atonement, which means to cover over someone's debt.。
So animal sacrifice was central to the worship of Israel,。
because that's how they received forgiveness of sin from the Lord,。
and how they could breach that barrier separating them and God.。
And there's another problem.。
The effect of this animal sacrifice is quite temporary.。
And one moment I offer a sacrifice to God so I can enjoy his love and blessings and all that,。
hallelujah, and praise, but then the next moment I went straight back into my sinful lifestyle.。
Nothing has really changed in my heart.。
The sacrifice only took care of the consequence of my sin,。
but it was never enough to deal with the root problem inside of me.。
And in fact, there was actually a point in the history of Israel, recorded in the book of Isaiah,。
that God explicitly said he was so fed up with the sin and corruption of Israel。
that he found the sacrifice and worship detestable.。
I hate it. I don't want to hear it. I'm closing my ears, God said.。
And so apparently, what happened with those Israelites is that while love seeks to give,。
not all giving is out of love, and not all sacrifice offered on the altar was a real act of worship.。
They only went through the motions of offering a sacrifice with an empty heart,。
and they were not really sorry about their wrongdoings or their evil deeds,。
and their hearts were not truly repentant, and they were not really longing to reconcile with God.。
They just want something from God.。
And so offering a sacrifice had become, at best, a transaction.。
I give you something, I give something up in order to take something.。
At best, that's a transaction.。
At worst, it's an attempt of manipulation of God for his forgiveness and blessing.。
A system of temporary sacrifice at the temple was never enough,。
and it couldn't really solve the problem of sin and bring God's people back to himself。
until God, who so loved the world, provided us with the ultimate sacrifice.。
He gave us his one and only son, Jesus, and he is the Lamb of God.。
He removed the sin of the world, and he showed us his love by sacrificing willingly for every single one of us.。
And that's the gospel, right? But that is more than that.。
Yes, Jesus took care of the effects, the consequence of sin for eternity,。
but just now we talk about the root problems, and here is it.。
God didn't just take care of the consequence of sin when he reconciled us back to him through the atonement of Jesus.。
He also sent his Holy Spirit to live inside of us.。
The same Spirit that filled Jesus while he was walking on earth,。
the same Spirit who had the resurrecting power to bring Jesus back to life,。
the Holy Spirit can give you new life, a fresh start, and turn you into a new creation.。
That's what we were talking about all throughout the whole Galatians series.。
He turns us into a new creation, and you are no longer slave to sin, to the power of darkness,。
to addictions, to self-harming or other harming thoughts and behaviors.。
You can finally, or we can finally live the life the way that God has always intended for us to live,。
the abundant life.。
And with the Holy Spirit dwelling inside of us, what's even more exciting is that it means now you are the hot spot of God's presence.。
In the old days, there was only one building on the entire planet where you can find the presence of God,。
but now you, every single one in this room, I'm looking at hundreds of it.。
We have more than a hundred portable, walking version of the temple of this kind of God's presence hot spot in this room.。
We are carrying the presence of God. We're hosting the presence of God.。
So that's why Paul said, "You know what? You, your body, is the temple of the Holy Spirit.。
You guys are walking temples.。
What the Israelites can only reach in a certain place, now it's everywhere because of what Jesus has done,。
because of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit.。
It's not only a fixed location anymore.。
You can find God anywhere, anytime.。
He's not far, far away. He's not that judge who sits in the seats in an inapproachable light.。
You cannot find him. He is closer than you could ever imagine.。
And he did all this, not because we deserve it, not because how good we are, how good looking or how, you know,。
or behaving, we get all the A's and not because of that.。
It's simply because he loves us.。
In the Bible, we call that mercy.。
Mercy is not something we deserve.。
The life you're living right now, maybe the love that you're enjoying, the peace you're enjoying,。
the joy you have in your life, it's not because of what you have done or what we have done that we deserve it.。
It's because of God's mercy for us.。
He loves us so deeply that he's willing to pay the price on his own.。
That's mercy.。
And so Paul, he said this in Romans 12 verse 1, he says,。
"Therefore, I urge you, brothers and sisters, in view of God's mercy,。
to offer your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to God.。
This is your true and proper worship."。
Because of this mercy of God, let's offer ourselves to God.。
This is a true and proper worship.。
But let me highlight this phrase for a second, living sacrifice.。
You probably have heard of or read this verse a hundred times before,。
and this living sacrifice thing has just become a catchphrase for you.。
Maybe you don't even think about it anymore, or maybe you have done tons of Bible studies。
or have heard tons of sermons on it, and your brain already starts to recall a lot of the definitions you've heard from the past.。
Maybe your time, your energy, your talents and gifts, your money, your relationships, everything.。
That list just goes on and on.。
Just give all that to God. That's living sacrifice.。
But hold on a second. I just want to, you know, just can I ask everyone to stop right now。
if you have this list going on and on in your head.。
Can I just simply point out to you that how bizarre this phrase actually sounds like.。
If you've been following what I was saying, you probably would notice that the fact that our sacrifice is dead.。
They have to be dead in order to fulfill their purpose as a substitute.。
If they're not dead, which is a living sacrifice, it literally means, you know, they're not doing their job.。
They're not getting the job done. Are you following me?。
Yeah, but of course you already know the answer.。
You know, you guys are, you know, you guys love Jesus.。
You read the Bible and you know Jesus is the answer.。
He's the one, he's the alternate substitute we've been talking about.。
He sacrificed on the cross, got the job done once and for all period.。
Then so why Paul is using this kind of language here.。
Why does he still mention sacrifice or living sacrifice?。
I think he did it on purpose because according to Paul himself or other disciples,。
when we give our lives to follow Jesus, we're supposed to be dead and alive at the same time.。
Let me say that again. When we give our lives to follow Jesus, we're supposed to be dead and alive at the same time.。
And you're saying Chapman, you're out of your mind.。
You don't know what you're talking about. Let me read some scriptures to you.。
And just, there are actually tons of scriptures that I can read about this.。
But since we're promoting the baptism class today, let me read this from Romans 6, verse 4.。
We were therefore buried with him through baptism into death in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the father, we too may live a new life.。
For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we will certainly also be united with him in a resurrection like his.。
For we know that our old self was crucified with him so that the body rude by sin might be done away with, that we should no longer be slaves to sin.。
Because anyone who has died has been set free from sin.。
Now, if we died with Christ, we believed that we will also live with him.。
We're supposed to be dead and alive at the same time as a Christ follower.。
So Paul is actually saying, as a response to God's mercy, to what he has done for you and me, for us, let's present to him our whole being, our entire being.。
And this being has already experienced death, our old self, which is our selfish intentions, our sinful desires.。
They have been crucified with Christ on the cross and it's now completely dead.。
But through Jesus and his resurrection, we're also alive in this new life he has given us.。
And here's the point, church.。
In order to be truly living, we need to be at the same time truly dead.。
In order to be truly living, in order to enjoy this new life, we have to be truly dead at the same time.。
So that we want to enjoy this new life we found in Jesus, we had to put to death all those desires, habits, beliefs, ideas, lifestyles, practices, relationships that do not align with the will of God.。
We have to leave them behind.。
So in the book, The Cost of Discipleship, Bonhoeffer actually said this.。
He said, "When Christ calls a man, he bids him come and die."。
And so this is true and proper worship.。
If you're grateful for his mercy, if your heart is inspired by his love for you and you're responding in love, then offer yourself, your whole being to God.。
Make sure what should be dead stays dead.。
So that the life of Christ could manifest through your being every single day.。
Our problem as Christ followers is normally this.。
That today we know we have to be living sacrifice, but the thing is, the part that should be dead somehow pretty much survived, stayed alive, maybe got an IV, you know, kind of still alive.。
And the part that should be alive is kind of dead.。
Let me say that again.。
Our problem as Christians is that the part of us which should be alive is pretty dead, but the part that should be dead is quite alive.。
That's our problem.。
That's the thing that we're experiencing.。
And don't get me wrong.。
I'm not here, I didn't come up to the stage here to emotionally blackmail anyone or to make you feel bad, to guilt trip you.。
In the contrary, I want to confess to you as a fellow brother that I know what it means to experience that kind of tension, that kind of struggle.。
I also wrestle with anger, bitterness, or even sometimes if I could use a stronger word, hatred, towards people whom I know I should have forgiven or I should learn to love them like Jesus loved them.。
I know that.。
Sometimes I feel I'm so torn apart, I can't do it.。
And I know that there are times I should trust God and be generous, but I ended up worrying about myself and I just become selfish.。
And I know that.。
We're not pointing fingers at anyone here, but we need to look at this problem of the parts of us that should be dead but stay alive and the parts of us that should be alive but stay dead.。
We should look into it.。
And sometimes I even feel in this world I'm a little bit encouraged to be a bit more selfish, to look after myself a bit more, or even to hate or to rationalize my self-serving behavior.。
Whenever I'm on social media, I see that.。
Sometimes when I watch a movie, you know, they say some very convincing things, "Oh, you know, everybody for themselves, they should look after themselves, blah, blah, blah, it's okay."。
Or when sometimes I talk to people, talk to friends, "Do you not follow Jesus yet?"。
If we live in this world, we're fed with this kind of information that feeds the part of ourselves that should be dead.。
And it's killing the part that should be alive.。
That's why Paul continued to set this in the passage.。
He says, "If we want to be a living sacrifice, if we want to be truly dead to our old self and truly alive in Jesus, we cannot follow or conform to the pattern of the world around us.。
We need to be transformed."。
I might have talked about this idea of transform, you know, from a caterpillar to a butterfly a while back.。
And that's the idea of transformation that is talked about in the Bible.。
And this whole transformation work was done by the Holy Spirit inside of us that God has given us.。
He enabled us to be a real living sacrifice.。
Without the Holy Spirit, we don't even stand a chance when we're facing the power of the flesh.。
That's in Galatians as well, this in the last couple of weeks as well.。
And if we don't have the Holy Spirit, we certainly don't have the power to live a resurrected life.。
So my friends here, I bring to you these questions today, this morning.。
Are you truly dead?。
And are you truly alive?。
Where do you need to be a little bit more dead?。
And where do you need to be a little bit more alive?。
Where do you need the Holy Spirit to come, you know, and by His power transform you and bring about the changes in you so that you can offer yourself as a real living sacrifice to God as your true and proper worship?。
That's the question that we all struggle a little bit, but by the grace of God, when His light come and enlighten us, I believe He will speak to us.。
And again, it's not just by us. Of course, it's by His Holy Spirit.。
But then we also have to know this.。
If you want to offer yourself to God as a real living sacrifice, if you want your life to be transformed to be more like Jesus, most of the time it costs us something.。
Don't get me wrong, salvation is free.。
Receiving and enjoying God's love, it's always free.。
Somebody has paid for it.。
But when we respond to God's love and we try to love Him back, it's going to cost us something.。
Worship, it's going to cost us something.。
And I want to close this message with a story in the Old Testament about a guy, David.。
There are lots of stories about David, but there's one particular story in the First Chronicles.。
The First Chronicles recorded stories of David of how he prepared to build the temple.。
The temple was David's idea.。
He didn't just love to worship God.。
He wants to build a house to host the presence of God.。
He says, "God, I want to build you a house so you can live there, so I can come here and spend time with you all the time."。
That's his heart.。
He wanted to build a house like that.。
And in First Chronicles chapter 21, there's a story about how David bought a piece of land where the temple would eventually be built.。
But let me just give you a spoiler.。
It's kind of a tragic story.。
You can go back and read it yourself.。
I don't have time to talk about it now, but I'm going to read a little bit to you.。
I'm just going to read from First Chronicles chapter 21, starting verse 22.。
So basically, let me just paraphrase this a little bit.。
So he came to a guy who owned that piece of land, and he said, "I want this piece of land.。
I want to build an altar to present a sacrifice to God."。
And that guy said, "Yeah, sure.。
King, you're the king.。
Come on, just take the land."。
And this is what David said in verse 24 of the chapter.。
He said, "No, I insist on paying the full price.。
Do not take for the Lord what is yours or sacrifice a burnt offering that costs me nothing."。
What David is saying here is, "My worship is going to cost me something.。
My worship should cost me something.。
My love for God is measured by the sacrifice that I am willing to make today.。
Worship should cost us something."。
You see here, David, he was preparing for the temple, that building to host the presence of God.。
But Paul is saying here, he said, "In view of God's mercy, present your bodies.。
Present the body which should be the temple of the Holy Spirit to God."。
When David was making preparation of that presentation, he said, "I'm going to pay for it.。
I'm going to give something.。
I'm going to pay a price.。
There should be a cost for that."。
So today, I believe when Paul is asking us to present ourselves, our bodies to God as his temple,。
I believe that we also need to pay a price.。
If we believe worship is about expressing our love to the King of kings, to the Lord of lords,。
to the God, to our Father who loves us so much,。
then this love is also measured by sacrifice.。
Our love for God can be measured by how much we're willing to give.。
That's why Jesus asked Peter three times, "Do you love me, Peter, more than these?"。
It can be measured by sacrifice.。
Our worship should cost us something.。
What if the Vineyard Long, we're a church, as we gather every Sunday,。
we don't just come in because the music is nice, because we have a band that plays good music,。
and we feel good.。
What if our worship here actually costs us something?。
What if our worship actually goes beyond just singing some nice songs?。
What if our worship involves being a living sacrifice,。
meaning we try to find out what are the areas that we should stay at that,。
and we make sure they are dead.。
And we find out the areas where we should be alive,。
and we invite the Holy Spirit into that area,。
and say, "Come, make me alive, Holy Spirit."。
What if that's our worship?。
What would this church look like?。
What would Yuen Long look like if we have such a church in this city, in this area?。
That's our worship.。
Our worship should cost us something.。
We're about to enter a time of what we call musical worship again.。
But I do want to invite you, my dear brothers and sisters, in view of the mercy of God,。
let's come and give our whole self to Him.。
Let's start to be a living sacrifice.。
Can we have the band back? Thank you.。
Just now when we were worshiping, singing songs, I mean, during the service,。
I just sat at the back there, and I was trying to ask God,。
"Okay, God, could you, by your mercy, could you show me some things。
that maybe I can share with my friends here,。
that how we can learn to be a living sacrifice?"。
And I have a short list of things, and it probably won't cover everything,。
and it may not be for you, but could you allow me to just read out?。
And when I read out, can I invite you just maybe close your eyes,。
and just invite the Holy Spirit?。
And if this is something that God is trying to speak to you,。
you can respond to Him right there and say,。
"God, if this is something I need to get rid of,。
if this is something that should be dead in my life, help me to nail it on the cross.。
God, if this is somewhere I need your power to move inside of me,。
please come and give me that power to make me alive again."。
Why don't we just welcome the presence of God,。
the presence that has already been inside of us?。
He's closer than we have ever imagined, and He's here right now.。
And God, we honor You.。
We love You.。
Father, we pray that hallowed be Your name,。
that we may be a church that will really understand what it means,。
that Your name will be hallowed in this community,。
that we know what sacrifice really means, or living sacrifice really means,。
that our lives can be transformed by the power of Your Holy Spirit,。
so that we could be a holy, a pleasing sacrifice to You, Lord.。
And He could be some of the things that we could let go or give up or get rid of。
or ask for God's help.。
I have a sense that maybe some of us here, we need to take the first step。
to reconcile with our family,。
be the first one to forgive, even before they acknowledge they hurt you.。
I sense that perhaps some of us, we need the boldness in our workplace。
to witness or share our faith, that we need a breakthrough from fear.。
And perhaps some of us, if you've been telling yourself if you have more financially,。
if you have accumulated more, then maybe you will share some with those who are in need.。
But I believe God is inviting you.。
You don't have to wait until you have accumulated more.。
You can share now. You can be generous now.。
That's how you can be a living sacrifice.。
And I sense that for some of us,。
being a living sacrifice simply means be present in your family.。
And I believe some of us here, we have a calling and a gift of leadership,。
perhaps in ministry, maybe in a CG, maybe in church, maybe outside of church.。
I believe God is calling you to give yourself to serving.。
Yeah, there is doubt. Am I good enough?。
God says let's nail down on the cross.。
And maybe some of us, we have plans for our own life.。
You have what you want for yourself, what you want for your family, your kids.。
That too, if you hear the Holy Spirit speaking,。
He could have invited you to, or He could be inviting you to nail that on the cross as well.。
Maybe that's the part that has to stay that, or should be that,。
so that the true abundant life, His plans for you could be revealed to you.。
I believe there's so much more that God wants to say to us today here in this room.。
This is a time with Him. He's here.。
He loves to speak to us because of His mercy.。
He wants us to have life and life to the fullness, abundant life.。
Out of love, He wants to come and guide us and lead us and transform us.。
Let's respond to Him in your own way.。
And after service, if you want to, we have the prayer team, we could pray for you.。
But we're going to enter into a time where we use a song in response to that kind of love,。
but it's not just about singing.。
It's not just about moving the vocal cord to utter some lyrics out.。
It's about opening up your heart, presenting your whole being to Him.。
We're going to do that along with the music.。
I love you.。
