Amen. Thank you, Joshua. Hey, let's give Joshua a big hand.。
First time service leading. Well done.。
When I was actually, can we pull up the football slide? I do want to talk about that a little bit.。
Sorry. It was too exciting. Okay. So here you see the easy. You see the viney long team.。
We had an incredible football tournament this past Friday. I want to say thank you for those。
of you who came out to support us. Also, thank you for those who helped us raise funds for。
Branches of Hope. So we're able to reach 7,000 Hong Kong dollars for Branches of Hope. So we're。
excited about that. And then to our own surprise, we actually did quite well. So we won the first。
three games. We made it into the playoffs and we ended up losing in the quarter final and the。
penalty shootouts. And it was very dramatic. That's how we liked it. So it was good. So thank。
you so much. But yeah, thanks for pulling that up. But today it's a one-off message. Next week,。
we'll also have a one-off message. And I just want to share something that was in my heart for you.。
Now, when I was a university or just a young graduate, I just graduated from university.。
And it seemed like that the people around me, that things were coming together in their lives,。
that stuff was working out for them, that their careers were working out,。
their relationships were working out. And here there was me. And I was still trying to find my。
way, my career path. I was wondering, is there somebody that there's a significant other that。
I'm going to be able to get to spend my life with? And during that time, a lot of my friends got。
married and the US people marry young. They had very promising jobs. And so as I was doing this。
comparison thing, I just really was wondering, am I ever going to be content because I was feeling。
some discontent in my heart? Am I going to be okay? Am I going to make it? And there was some anxiety。
actually around my future. Now, I think we all have experienced this, where we long to experience。
content in our heart, where we just feel at peace with where we are and what's happening.。
But the reality is that's actually not easy to come by, is it? To feel content.。
That's something I feel like it's like, you know, you almost have it and then it slips through your。
hands. Or feeling content is just something that seems like I'm almost there. It's just around the。
corner. If just this one thing happens, then I'm going to feel content. My life is going to be。
amazing. You know, everything's going to be good. But it always just seems a little bit out of reach。
for most of us. And then there are seasons where we do feel content and then our circumstances change。
and all of that goes out the window. And what do we do then?。
How should we think about this? Well, what I want to explore with you today through this message。
and this word that God has put on my heart is I want to explore with you this question.。
How can I grow and learn to be content in all circumstances?。
And is that even something that is possible? Or is that just wishful thinking?。
Does that sound good? Yes. A little bit. Yes. Okay. Good. Good. Just making sure.。
You know, it's not two people are excited about this. There's a few more. That's good.。
So what we're going to do is we're going to go to the book of Philippians, which is one of the。
letters that Paul wrote. And in Philippians, one of the reasons why he wrote the letter,。
actually, it was like I was reading one of those introductory New Testament books. There's seven。
reasons for why Paul wrote the letter of Philippians. But I want to share with you one。
that is significant for our context for what we're going to look at. And that is Paul is writing this。
letter to say thank you for a financial gift that the Philippians have made to him while he is in。
prison in Rome. So Paul is writing this letter from prison in Rome and he's saying thank you.。
Now, what makes this more significant is that Paul and the Philippians, they have a very close。
relationship. He planted the church in Philippi. They have been supporting him. They've been。
partners with him in ministry and have supported him financially all along. But another thing is。
that they didn't give out of their abundance. Actually, in second Corinthians, we learned that。
the Philippians were facing severe trials and that they were living in extreme poverty. So their。
generosity flows out of a place of extreme poverty. That's out of the place that they're giving and。
loving on Paul in his circumstances. And so Paul is saying thank you. And so this is where we pick。
up in Philippians 4, starting in verse 10, it says this. "I rejoice greatly in the Lord that at last。
you renewed your concern for me. Indeed, you were concerned, but you had no opportunity to show it.。
I'm not saying this because I'm in need, for I've learned to be content whatever the circumstances.。
I know what it is to be in need and I know what it is to have plenty. I've learned the secret。
of being content in any and every situation, whether well fed or hungry, whether living in。
plenty or in want. I can do all this through him who gives me strength." Now in verse 10, we see。
that Paul, he rejoices that this concern for him has been renewed. And he also acknowledges that。
for whatever reason, for a season, didn't have the opportunity to express their loving concern。
for Paul. Now maybe it was their own difficult circumstances. Maybe it was even Paul's。
circumstances. Because I mean, he's in prison, Philippi and Rome, they're like 800 kilometers。
or something like that apart. Back then there was no text messaging. So it's hard to keep up with。
what's going on in each other's lives. But at last they have renewed their concern and Paul is just。
grateful and he says, "Thank you." But then he turns things around and he wants to actually。
encourage them through his own example. And so that's what verse 11 and 13 is all about. And。
this is what I want to focus on with us, is how Paul wants to encourage the Philippians who are。
facing struggles, who are facing challenges, and he wants to speak into their lives. Now,。
as I was praying over what to share, I had a million thoughts, a million ideas,。
but I just felt that we're one year into our church plan or the public launch, at least,。
we've been doing this longer. There's a lot of things, I know there's a lot of things going on。
in your lives. And I just felt that God wants to encourage us and give us confidence in who he is。
so that we can learn to be content and know him, know his power in all circumstances of our lives.。
So that was my sense for the day and so that's what I want to share with you.。
So let me take you to verse 11 and 12. It says, "I'm not saying this because I'm in need.。
For I've learned to be content whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be in need。
and I know what it is to have plenty. I've learned the secret of being content in any。
and every situation, whether well-fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want."。
So Paul is saying, "Hey, I'm grateful for your gift. Thank you so much."。
But then he says, and this is super interesting, "But your gift is not what guarantees me being。
content. My external circumstances, they don't determine whether or not I feel content."。
Now this is actually mind-blowing, right? He's in prison. Now in prison back in the days,。
it wasn't that the government was collecting money and then uses money to feed prisoners.。
Prisoners depended on family members and friends to actually bring。
needed resources to the prison. If you had nobody bringing you anything, that was it.。
And so, but Paul is saying, "My well-being does not depend on gifts like this. It depends。
on something else." And he also, he was not somebody who was living this luxurious life。
where everything was working out perfectly. He didn't have any challenges. I mean, he's in prison.。
He was, had people, churches that he loved turn on him. We saw him as his enemies. He was beaten。
several times, almost to death. So, I mean, this guy, for him to say that is very significant.。
These are not just like easily spoken words from somebody who's like comfortable sitting。
somewhere on a nice sofa, having a drink. Now, let's continue to, actually, before I go any。
further, let me define what we mean by content. And I want to give a Christian definition of this.。
And so here's a definition, says this, "Contentment describes finding peace,。
joy, and satisfaction regardless of life circumstances."。
So, Paul is making this incredible claim that regardless of what happens outside of him,。
he can know the joy, the satisfaction, and the contentment in the Lord, the peace。
that surpasses all understanding. This is absolutely incredible. But of course,。
we wonder, is this really true? You know, is this something that we can actually really。
experience and know? So, let's continue to unpack this. So, in verse 12, Paul says,。
"I have learned the secret of being content." Now, this is very interesting. It has the word。
"learned" and it has the word "secret." Now, why would Paul use these two words?。
That he learned and it's a secret? Well, I believe that it points us towards this learning to be。
content or being content is not something that is just easily come by. There has been some lessons,。
life lessons along the way that have brought Paul to this point. But you also use the word "secret"。
because it's not everyone knows how to experience this contentment. Just like。
books. I actually did some Amazon search about some book titles that uses the word "the secret."。
So, the secret of lasting beauty. You know, oh, I want to know that. I'm getting older, you know.。
The secret of a successful marriage. That's a good one. The secret of winning at life.。
Why do these books exist? Because we're looking for the code, right? We want to find the answer。
to these questions or something that's just not easily available. We want to know the answer。
because we want to experience the good marriage, the lasting beauty, the good life. And so,。
we buy these books, attend these workshops, you know, do all these things. But Paul is using。
this to just say this experience of contentment, you know, it's not something that is easily come。
by and actually eludes or is not easily available or obvious to everyone how to experience that.。
And people actually really struggle with that. Now, I want to be clear, he's not saying actually。
through his passage, he tells us how we can learn to be content or how we find contentment. So,。
he's actually, it's an open secret in what he's writing. But he's using this language to show us,。
you know, that it's actually something that doesn't come easy our way. So, the first thing is that。
real contentment is a secret. But just because it's hard for us to be content, it does not stop。
us from trying, does it? We often believe that the desire for contentment will be satisfied by。
accomplishments, material possessions, relationships, and the approval of others.。
We say to ourselves, "Hey, you say it's a secret. Hey, I know the secret. I know the answer to what。
will make me content. If only I have this relationship, if only I get married, if only I have。
this house, if only I can stay in this job a little bit longer and I get that promotion,。
if only I get the approval from my father that I've been working so hard for."。
And I just wonder, I'm just thinking about ourselves,。
what have you been telling yourself that will give you contentment? You know, what are you thinking。
in these material things or other achievements that will provide contentment for you?。
You know, is it that relationship?。
Is it that promotion? Is it a designer bag?。
Is it a designer bag? Something that I don't care about at all? You know, what is it?。
And so we say to ourselves, "I know what will make me happy. I know what will make me content.。
I know what I'm after. That thing, this will bring me contentment." And we believe that the objects。
that are stirring the desire within us will also be the objects that will bring the contentment.。
Let me give you an example. When I was younger, living in Germany, Nike or Nike, you know,。
some people call it Nike, some call it Nike, shoes were expensive. And they were really something。
special. Not everyone had those, but some of my friends had them. They played basketball.。
And I really wanted a pair of Nikes, some Nike shoes. And I thought if I have them,。
you know, it's going to feel great. I'm going to be a better basketball player.。
And I'm going to be a little bit cooler. And so there was the object that stirred this desire。
in my heart. And I thought that somehow these shoes will make me feel better. And they did.。
But just for a little while, right? Just for a little while. And then I thought,。
"Oh, it's not the shoes. It's this other thing." And so the question is, you know,。
is that really true about these things that we say will bring us contentment?。
Is it really true? The things that you're looking for,。
that you think will make you all right, are those really the things that make us all right?。
Now, I did get those shoes. I think some of us have reached some of our goals, achieved perhaps。
some of our dreams along the way. And it does feel good. There's no denying of that.。
But then what happens is we reach this goal and then we turn around and we say, "You know what?。
It wasn't this thing, but it's this other thing that will make me content."。
And then we focus our energy on this other thing that we don't have yet.。
So being content is like, you know, I'm trying to reach for this thing,。
but I struggle to ever really arrive. I'm just not getting there. It's just always around the corner.。
It slips through my hands.。
But yet, you know, I'm feeling this longing to just be whole, to be at peace。
about all the things that are going on in my life.。
And so we seek to find contentment in things. Now, in verse 12, Paul shows us what true。
contentment looks like. It means being content in all of life's circumstances. There's a true。
contentment and there's a false contentment. True contentment means, you know, whatever happens,。
it doesn't matter. I can know peace. I can know joy. I can know satisfaction,。
regardless of what happens. But a false contentment is exposed, and Paul talks about plenty and want.。
When we experience plenty and want, that sort of shows if there's a lot of things that we can do,。
sort of shows of the contentment that we're experiencing if it's the real deal.。
Or if something happens and whatever circumstances are changed, you know,。
are we really going to be content? So the way you can tell you have real contentment is if you can。
handle plenty and want. But there is actually a problem with that. Because a lot of times,。
well, some of us never experience want. Like we've always in our lives actually had。
a certain level of things and cares. We never hit really the point where we're just struggling for。
existence. But some of us have experienced that. You know, we know want. And we've just hit rock,。
you know, bottom or we're in a very difficult place. But I believe that most of us have not。
experienced plenty. Where really in a very major substantial way, our dreams come actually true.。
Where we get the influence, the power, the finances, the whatever it is that you dream of,。
that you just have that in such a crazy abundance. That you actually find out,。
even if I have all these things, they still don't make me content. Now, Jim Carrey, some of you know。
him. It's by now it's a little bit maybe for older generation already. So he was or is a Canadian。
actor, comedian. Back in the 90s, 2000s was movies. I don't know if he still does movies or not.。
But he said this, so somebody who has reached plenty, he says this,。
I think everybody should get rich and famous and do everything they ever dreamed of,。
so they can see that it's not the answer. You know, even if you reach this point,。
it's actually does not make you content. But most of us never get there. And so the problem is we。
maybe we taste a little bit of it. And so we actually still believe that those things will。
make us content. You know, because we just experienced a little bit of the dream.。
And like if I just managed to do a little bit more, you know, then I'm going to be content.。
And so we actually buy into this lie. But what if we actually do experience plenty and want?。
You know, what are what are some of the responses? Well, there's three. I want to suggest three ways。
that people respond to it. The first one is they reach their dream. It is fulfilled. It's amazing.。
But then after a little while, it wears off. And they're like, you know what? Actually,。
this was not my dream. This thing here is my dream. You know, that that relationship。
that didn't make me happy. This other relationship is going to really make me happy.。
And so then they shifted like, oh, I was wrong about this, but I know I'm right about this.。
So that's one response. Another one is that actually grow cynical. Like where we, you know,。
you reach this, you know, your dream and you're like, you know, I've tried so hard to be content.。
But I'm. I feel like the universe is messing with me because I even if I have all these things,。
I just don't feel good. I think this this world is just a joke. And so this is actually a very。
dark place to be in, right? A very cynical place. So that's that's a conclusion that people draw.。
But then there is a third thing. And that's, of course, what I want to suggest to you。
is that actually this this longing for being content and looking for it and things。
that it actually is something that points us towards God.。
You know that that there is something in this universe that can fulfill these deep longings。
and that we can find that in a personal relationship with Jesus.。
And so this is actually a story of C.S. Lewis. C.S. Lewis, he was an English professor at Oxford。
and Cambridge University. He writes about his journey of coming to faith in the book Surprised。
by Joy. And it's actually his longing. He calls it Zanzig, which is German, which makes me happy.。
You know, this longing that he felt was actually what brought him on his journey of of finding faith.。
That there must be something else. And so he wrote and mere Christianity,。
one of his most well-known books. He wrote this quote. So he's talking about that because we have。
this longing, it is something that points us to God. Let me read this to you. Creatures are not。
born with desires unless satisfaction for this desire exists. A baby feels hunger. Well, there's。
such a thing as food. A duckling wants to swim. Where is such a thing as water? Men feel sexual。
desire. What is such a thing as sex? If I find myself. If in if I find in myself a desire which。
no experience in this world can satisfy, the most probable explanation is that I was made for another。
world. If none of my earthly pleasures satisfy it, that does not prove that the universe is a fraud.。
So in other words, it does not prove the cynical view. Probably earthly pleasures were never meant。
to satisfy it, but only to arouse it, to suggest the real thing. So in other words, our longing。
and desire for being content, they point us to God. You know, that there is someone out there。
who can fulfill this deep longing and desire in our hearts and who can meet that, that it doesn't。
matter what the circumstances are. We can find wholeness. We can find peace. We can find strength.。
We can find joy. We can find satisfaction, you know, in him. And this is actually also where。
Paul is moving in the letter to Philippians in verse 13. So he says this. He says, I can do all。
of this through him who gives me strength. So out of this relationship with Jesus, he can face plenty。
and want because it's Jesus who gives him the power and the strength to cope with whatever comes his way.。
Now this is not denying that there are real challenges. This is not a spirituality where we。
need to, oh, you know, everything's great. And it's not, but, but Paul is just saying, you know, he can。
face those things by the power of Jesus and he can know peace. He can know joy in the midst of all of that.。
And so in contrast to like self-sufficiency or self-reliance, Paul says, I am strong enough。
because of Jesus who is my strength and I can face this. I can get through this.。
And so part of my heart for us today is actually, I believe that Jesus wants to give us confidence。
in him because sometimes we lose confidence in Jesus, even as Christians. And we kind of try。
to hedge our bets and like, maybe, maybe this other thing is actually what does really satisfy me.。
And that Jesus wants to give us confidence and know it is him and him that we find our satisfaction.。
It is he who will give us the grace and the strength to be at peace in very difficult situations。
and experience, you know, his love and to even have joy that the Holy Spirit gives, you know, in。
those circumstances, even if it doesn't make any sense to people around us. It's like just a little。
bit earlier in the chapter, Paul talks about that we can come to Jesus and he gives us a peace。
that surpasses all understanding, the peace of God that he bestows that on his people.。
And so God wants to release his confidence in Jesus that we can face whatever it is that we're。
facing, whatever it is that we're going through, that he can be our strength. I can do all of this。
through him who gives me strength. So we all can say that and we all not just say it, but actually。
can know that I can do all things, all of this through him who gives me strength. Now, it's。
interesting that Paul, he talks about also that he learned to be content. He actually repeats that。
multiple times in the passage. And so there is a thing of like that this doesn't just fall in our。
laps, but it is actually as we live life, as we face these challenges and as we struggle with。
and learn to trust Jesus with what's going on, as we do that, we experience that he meets us。
in that struggle. And he does it every time because he is faithful every time. But we struggle。
and that's the truth, right? Like we struggle to actually trust them. We often, we don't come to。
him. We try to deal with what's going on in different ways. But Paul over his lifespan,。
you know, he learned to continuously come to Jesus. This can be on our own. This can also be。
with others that pray with us, that help us, you know, and where we entrust what's going on.。
And when we find rest, that God is sovereign over our circumstances, that he is Lord and he is with。
us and he will see us through whatever it is that we're facing. And then suddenly the peace of God,。
you know, falls on us and we get to experience that even in the most difficult and challenging。
circumstances. Now, a little bit later in the letter, Paul, he continues to encourage the。
Philippians and he says this in Philippians 4 verse 19. He says, "And my God will meet all your。
needs according to the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus." And I love this. He's like, "My God,。
my God can do that for you." He's speaking from personal experience because he experienced it。
for himself. So he knows that because God has done this for him, he can also do it for you.。
My God can meet all your needs according to the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus.。
Wow, that's amazing. So Paul is saying we can learn to be content as we walk with Jesus,。
as we continuously place our trust in Jesus, you know, and as we experience him meeting us。
and in these circumstances, and he wants to build our confidence. He wants us to know that he is。
faithful. We're unfaithful. We struggle, but he is faithful and he is with you and he will walk。
with you through whatever it is that you're going on and he will give you peace. He can release joy。
and even satisfaction when it doesn't make sense that your contentment does not depend。
on external circumstances. Does that sound good? Yeah. And I, you know, in my own life,。
I've shared some struggles here before and so I'm also not somebody who easily just preaches。
this who has never experienced anything difficult or challenging in his life.。
You know, I've experienced when I hit my own rock bottom, when the rug was pulled from underneath my。
feet in my job, a relationship, my home, you know, all of this was gone.。
Now I wrestled. I wasn't right away content.。
And I've experienced it was like I prayed once and then, oh, no, I'm content. Okay, it's all good.。
You know, but it was a wrestling and we're talking about months.。
But Jesus met me and he gave me confidence that it is he who sees us through whatever struggle,。
whatever difficulty you're experiencing. And if my God can do it for me, he can also do it for you.。
Amen.。
So I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
You know, it's a, as I've been sharing, it is in this personal relationship with Jesus。
that we find true contentment.。
You know, that's where we find peace. That's where we find rest for our souls.。
And we find peace in the presence of God.。
And I know it's easy to, you know, to come to church and I don't know everyone's backgrounds.。
You know, some of you, maybe you're a Christian, some of you maybe are not.。
But as one of the responses we'll have, I'll give different ways of responding to this message.。
One of them, I just simply want to ask, you know, is there anyone here。
that wants to invite Jesus into their lives?。
You know, that says like, "Hey, I've experienced。
this discontent and I just want to experience it's Jesus who meets people in their challenges."。
And, you know, if that's you, if you want to invite Jesus in your life,。
in just a moment I'm going to give an opportunity to, but actually want to ask,。
can we turn down the lights a little bit and can we actually close our eyes, if that's okay?。
So I want to ask if there's anyone, maybe for a while you've been thinking about this,。
taking the step of faith. I want to ask if there's anyone who wants to take this step.。
And if you do, I want to ask you to maybe just give me a little wave.。
Okay, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to say a prayer.。
I'm going to say a phrase, you know, by phrase and give you space where you can follow it.。
And it's through this prayer that we say, "Jesus, come into my life. I want to be a Christian."。
And you can make this your own prayers. I'm going to pray a line and then you can repeat。
and I'll pray another line and then you can repeat. And so why don't we do this now?。
Jesus, I'm sorry that I have sinned against you and I've sinned against other people.。
Jesus, thank you that you died for my sins on the cross, that you forgive me.。
I place my trust in you.。
Will you come into my life?。
Will you fill me with your Holy Spirit?。
And will you show me what it means to know you。
and what it means to live my life for you?。
Amen.。
Now, if you've prayed this prayer, God's word says if we confess with our tongue that Jesus。
Christ is Lord, you know, we are saved. And I would love to help you and, you know, take further。
steps or afterwards I'll be up front here. You can come and we'd just like to guide you more so you。
know, you know, how to move forward in this journey. But right now, what I want to do is,。
as I shared, even as Jesus followers, even as Christians, you know, we struggle with discontent。
and a lot of times our hearts, you know, we get unsure. Can Jesus really help? And so we place。
our trust in other things, in idols, you know, that we think this thing will make me happy.。
That's an idol. Whatever you think will make you fulfilled and content besides God, you know,。
that's an idol. And I want to actually just create a space for us to turn to each other.。
Maybe somebody you came with, maybe somebody sitting next to you, you ask them if they're。
open to praying with you and just pray that God will meet you, you know, in this area of discontent,。
that he will give you confidence in him, that he is powerful, that he's able to see you through。
whatever it is that's going on. And so I want to just give space for five minutes or so to pray。
with each other. It's also okay if you want to just pray on you and you can say, tell the person。
here, I just want to pray on my own. That's okay. But why don't we do that right now as a church?。
And we'll just take time to pray with each other. So turn to each other. Let's pray for one another.。
Let's pray that God meets us in the areas we're struggling to trust him, struggling to be confident。
in him and just ask him to meet us. So let's do this right now. And then in about five minutes。
or so, I'll come back and I'll pray for us. Jesus, you've heard the cry of our hearts.。
Will you instill faith and trust in you and our hearts? Will you release faith on your people?。
Will you give us confidence in you? Will you meet us in the places where。
there's right now pain, there's difficulty, and we're just overwhelmed?。
Will you give us confidence? Will you help us see that you are sovereign over the situation,。
that you stand above it, that you are with us, that we are not alone, that all power belongs to you,。
that you love us and you do not withhold your goodness from us and you will meet us。
in those places of need. Strengthen your people, strengthen our hearts,。
and allow us to be content in whatever comes our way because you are with us.。
Because we know you. So I pray this in your name, Jesus. Amen.。
