you know, during Chinese New Year, we love to go to different places, different homes to visit each other and say our blessings.。
So today, we're going to do something special for our message.。
We're going to visit Pastor Vivian and Elder Sidney at their house as they're delivering today's message.。
[Music]。
Hey dear, it's Chinese New Year. Why don't we make some Tong Yuen as we often do to celebrate the Chinese New Year?。
Yes, sure. The Tong Yuen is often made sweet in your family, whereas in my family, it is made salty with a lot of other ingredients.。
Yes, true. It could represent that our family longs for something sweet in life.。
Whereas for your family, you look for a rich and abundant life.。
Well, the Chinese Tong Yuen are usually rambish regardless of various traditions. They may signify wholeness, perfection and many others.。
Wow, that is prophetic. I just read from the Message Bible the other day.。
The famous verse in Philippians 4 actually tells us that let's petitions and praises shape our worries into prayers, letting God know our concerns.。
Before we know it, a sense of God's wholeness, everything coming together for good, will come and settle us down.。
[Music]。
Well, just now we are making the dumpling rambish. I think it actually releases a desire to see that there is a restoration to wholeness, reunion and reconciliation into the whole matter.。
Well, actually, as a surgeon who stitches up a bounced wound and brings along healing, I guess I have my own perspective of Yuen.。
As in recovery, restoration in Fu Yuan.。
Every time I perform surgery, we're actually inflicting some degree of hurt, which we call necessary pain.。
But it is warranted because we can achieve the healing that is desirable.。
For instance, during the Chinese New Year, I actually did a little bit of artwork.。
We cut into the buds of this water lily and in time, when nourished in water and nutrients, given the right season, then it will blossom for the new year.。
In that sense, even for a very traumatic year for the society, the new year also spells a new season.。
It will take time, but together with the right measures, we shall recover or even blossom.。
That crucial time just can't be rushed.。
But then pain is a gift as it points to practical reality, help us recognize where we stand and how far we may stretch ourselves literally when we recover from some of the lost functional abilities.。
I love the book, The Gift of Pain, written by an orthopedic surgeon, Dr. Paul Grant, who spent decades working for leprosy patients in India.。
Through his dedicated work, he observed that the patients lost their fingers, hand or foot due to neglect to repeated hurts of their body just because they lost their sensation of pain.。
That is, pain actually alerts us to that we are being hurt. Something sinister needs to be tackled.。
On the other hand, as the proper treatment has been conducted, progressive decrease in pain reassures us of the ongoing healing in good progress.。
Well, as a mom, I would say most mothers would agree giving birth to a child is one of the worst pain experiences.。
However, there is much to celebrate for new life and the natural longing for family to come together to celebrate.。
Well, on the other hand, even as a physician, I recognize that there is some spiritual dimension of pain.。
Didn't Paul plead for his thorn in the eye to be removed?。
But then Christ's grace is sufficient and His strength is made perfect in weakness.。
He must have been painful for Paul. At the end, he learns to be humble before Christ as he experiences His sufficient grace.。
Coming back to your Yuan metaphor, I do see Tang Yuan as more signifying wholeness, be it physical or emotional healing from wounds.。
It's just part of the journey to wholeness.。
The R for Rundish metaphor reminded me of what I learned in Wholeness and Inner Healing Prayer Ministry that its ultimate goal is reconciliation.。
In particular, there will be a process of reconciliation to God, to others, and to oneself.。
Let's have a look at these five R's in the process of reconciliation.。
First, recognize our sinful reactions to hurts and the sinful patterns that affect self and others.。
Second, confess and repent for ways we judged those tempted us to form judgments and expectancies, to believe the lies, and to make inner vows.。
Third, release forgiveness to others and oneself.。
Fourth, reckon as dead our sinful reactions and patterns on the cross.。
Fifth, allow God to resurrect us, to bring new life.。
It is also very important that while we long for bearing good fruits for the new season, we must get rid of all the bad roots.。
So the physical closure of the year is only a timely reminder that we have to literally chop off the bad roots in our lives before we can be renewed to bear fruits different from before.。
Only a proper closure sets us ready for something anew.。
Yes, indeed, proper closure and then a new chapter.。
Since we have the testimony from our own community member, whose relative had a very traumatic experience of going through a very difficult medical condition.。
And yet no definite plan can be formulated because of the complexities in making the diagnosis.。
With the COVID restrictions in the hospital throughout those few months of agony, he was nursed in isolated facilities and no visitation was allowed.。
All the discussion of the management of the patients was just with the relatives over the phone.。
Yet the risk of surgery was so high that no firm decision could be made, despite a long stretch and every hope seemed to be fading.。
As a surgeon myself, logically speaking, I understand that it is almost a daunting gamble to change gear, to switch facilities and to proceed to surgery.。
Yet the authentic faith of the family member, entirely entrusting to God, emboldened the decision.。
Against all odds, he made it through and almost miraculously.。
As critical as the matter of life and death, the family members cried out to God desperately and sought prayer support and medical advice from friends and the spiritual community.。
The patient himself, having gone through every miraculous piece, confessed Christ as his personal Savior.。
Again, his physical healing is only part of his healing journey.。
There is much more than this, other than his reconciliation to God, there is reconciliation between himself and his family.。
I am very convinced that the family being together to lend support to him makes a tremendous difference,。
so that he gathered the courage to go through the painful surgery and challenging recovery.。
In a year which is as difficult as this immediate past year, I would say community, even in the form of household or spiritual communities,。
makes tremendous impact on how we cope with such uncharted and phantom difficulties.。
Instead of looking into our own interests or finding comfort in our sphere of supposed safety,。
I would say we should make every outreach to others so that no one suffers in isolation.。
Yeah, but then it is almost ironic that while Tuen Yuen, Tong Yuen, means reunion, Tuen Yuen,。
but then we can't have that reunion for our very own family.。
Oh my dear.。
I understand that as a family, we miss our son.。
He is in lockdown mode, now going through his third wave in Melbourne.。
Yet we have to entrust God that he will look after him and provide for him.。
He is alone, but he is not lonely.。
He is being watched by him, and in days to come, we shall reunite.。
For now, maybe we should just share the pain and distress of others who are isolated from their family and loved ones,。
thousands of miles away, and many others who are stranded here in Hong Kong while this place may not be their home.。
(Bells ringing)。
Hey Ivan!。
Happy New Year!。
Happy New Year!。
Thank you!。
Come in!。
Thank you!。
Please have a seat, Ivan!。
Okay!。
Happy New Year!。
I am very happy to be able to celebrate the New Year with you today.。
I know that you have a family tradition,。
which is to pour tea for you from the back of the glass as a sign of respect.。
Thank you!。
I know that your son, Christopher, your beloved son, is not in Hong Kong now.。
I hope that today, we can take this opportunity to send him our best wishes from the future generations.。
Thank you!。
May God continue to bless and protect you.。
May God also bless and protect your family members, so that they are not restricted by the geographical boundaries.。
Let's have some tea together!。
Okay!。
Let's have some tea!。
Let's have some tea!。
It's time to make a wish!。
Oh, yes!。
Me and Vivian wish you all the best!。
Thank you! I wish you all good health!。
I hope that I can give you a New Year hug.。
Oh, that's great!。
Happy New Year!。
Happy New Year!。
Thank you!。
Ivan, thank you for your blessing.。
You are our beloved descendant.。
In the past seven years, we have been very happy to know you.。
We are even happier to witness your relationship with God.。
We are even happier to witness your life's transformation.。
We are proud of you for facing many difficulties and suffering.。
Vivian, you have shared many special experiences.。
Why don't you share your personal stories with me?。
It was indeed a difficult experience.。
I remember that when I was still a firefighter more than ten years ago,。
I had a serious accident.。
I had multiple fractures on my face.。
I had to undergo many surgeries.。
I had to undergo surgery for four years before I could recover.。
Just like what Sydney said,。
I had to experience physical trauma and how to get treatment.。
I agree that physical pain can really help us to know。
where our body is in a bad condition,。
where we need to get treatment,。
and where we can recover.。
But physical trauma can take more time,。
mental effort to heal and recover.。
This time, I had a post-traumatic stress disorder.。
I was not in a good condition.。
I had a hangover, a bad temper, and even had a relationship with my ex-girlfriend.。
The person who was under the greatest pressure was usually the one who loved me the most.。
Her heart was in more pain than mine.。
Would you mind sharing with us who you are hurting?。
I am talking about my mother.。
She even had a post-traumatic stress disorder.。
I love my mother,。
but the trauma of this relationship made me unconsciously withdraw from the close relationship between us.。
I realized that the more nervous I was, the more I would withdraw.。
I couldn't even call her "mommy".。
Would you mind sharing with us your father?。
Did he help you in this situation?。
My father was another challenge for me.。
He was a mental gambler.。
I remember when I was in my teens,。
he moved to another house more than 10 times because of financial problems.。
Since I was a kid, my father gambled and he brought a lot of damage to my family.。
I swore not to gamble like my father.。
But it was ironic that I gambled more when I was a gold minister.。
I was so happy every day, but I ended up in debt.。
The only difference is that I didn't use thousands of lies to deceive my family.。
I lied to my family.。
Wow, I heard you had a very painful experience.。
But what we saw today was a very different Ivan.。
What was the motivation and faith that led you to change so much?。
You just shared that pain is a gift.。
The pain in my body and in my relationship made my soul extremely empty.。
But the pain brought a precious gift that changed my soul, which is the Christian faith.。
There is a scripture in the Bible about reconciliation.。
It is the 5th chapter of the Gospels, chapter 18-20.。
"All things are in the hand of God, who has made it possible for us to reconcile with Him,。
and has given us the discipline of reconciliation.。
It is God who has made it possible for the world to reconcile with Him,。
and has not condemned their transgressions,。
and has entrusted us with the reason for reconciliation.。
For this reason, we are the messengers of Christ,。
and God has made us to preach to the world.。
We also ask Christ to reconcile with Him."。
This scripture has a deep impact on me.。
This is a spiritual gift that affects my life and my daily life.。
If it were not for God's grace and the people who love me,。
I would not be able to overcome my pain and to pay off my debt.。
But more importantly, I can reconcile with my parents.。
In this process, I saw my life being transformed by Christ.。
I can help my father to understand that。
he has to follow Christ and have a new life.。
Of course, he still has his own struggles in life.。
But I believe that for everyone,。
we all have our own struggles.。
But for me, I have already forgiven him.。
I can still imagine and count his sacrifice for the family,。
his concern for the family.。
He has dedicated everything he can to the family.。
Ivan, you are sharing a wonderful journey.。
You accepted your father and forgave him.。
You even embraced him and thanked him.。
This is a wonderful change.。
We are very happy for you.。
I can love my father as my son.。
At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you.。
Thank you and Vivian.。
You have built our faith community with the love of your parents.。
You have taught us how to build a Christian-centered family.。
I remember you held a mass in 2014 at the Divine Center.。
This mass allowed us to express our love to our parents.。
In the past few years, you have been training us on the faith.。
You have shown us the true identity of a father.。
You have also made us realize。
the role of a father on earth.。
You have shown us the love of a father.。
You have made us realize the love of a father.。
Now, the love between my parents is more direct and natural.。
We can celebrate the New Year together.。
Ivan, thank you for sharing your experience of mental trauma.。
I understand that the heart of Christ。
needs to heal our mental trauma.。
You may swear to be a different person.。
In the New Year, others may swear to be a different person.。
Only God's power of transformation。
can make our lives better and change us.。
Yes, only God's power of transformation。
can make us change.。
This is what the Bible says in the 4th chapter of the Old Testament.。
God's Father's Messenger。
helps the hearts of the fathers to turn to their children.。
He also helps the hearts of the children to turn to their parents.。
What we have heard from you。
is the work of God in your life and family.。
In addition to Christ, you mentioned that your wife has always been with you.。
Yes, I am very grateful.。
My girlfriend, my beloved wife, Michelle,。
her love, care, and her devotion.。
I would like to share my second life change,。
which is the commitment to our relationship.。
My wife has accompanied me。
through the most difficult time of my life.。
We have committed to dedicate ourselves wholeheartedly。
to each other as a lifelong partner.。
We also hope to build a family that is faithful to Christ.。
We also have a great blessing。
to become a loving and lively parent.。
Family is not only about the family of a family of four,。
but also the family of the church.。
It has a great impact on my life.。
We need companions to accompany us,。
to care and encourage us.。
We also need them to share our pain,。
struggle, and setbacks.。
At the same time, I have found that。
when I am willing to try to care for my siblings。
who are also facing challenges and failures,。
we are actually encouraging and helping each other.。
Although my father has his own limitations and challenges,。
he has always been teaching me.。
At the same time, I have realized that。
I need other people's wisdom to help me.。
Just like you, my famous predecessors,。
you have taught me in my life.。
Thank you for witnessing。
the relationship between me and Richie,。
our marriage, and our family.。
You have also helped us to understand。
the beauty of God and the meaning of God to us.。
Actually, Ivan, we have witnessed。
the precious legacy of God.。
Just like each of us is a descendant of God.。
In the past year,。
we have faced many challenges in different families.。
Our family is also a family.。
Our children have come from far away.。
But we have seen that。
God's grace, no matter where they are,。
God will protect, guide, and care for them.。
I also believe that in the future,。
God's grace will also be with your family,。
especially your two adorable children.。
Ivan, as your spiritual teacher,。
we can bless you and your family.。
It is our blessing.。
In fact, in the past few years,。
we have been able to share the blessings of the spiritual。
with many of the brothers and sisters in the Chinese community.。
It is really our great blessing.。
I like the scripture you just mentioned.。
It says that you are in the right path.。
Christ allows you to be in harmony with God.。
And you believe that God has entrusted you with the right path.。
God allows you to be in harmony with your father.。
God is in the right path。
to prepare you to become a better father.。
Finally, I want to say that。
only our loving God。
can make a good work of life.。
Very good.。
Only God's work can make a good work of life.。
Sunny, as a father,。
we would like to hear your blessings。
and wishes for your family.。
I would like to thank the scripture for blessing my two sons.。
I hope to see their wisdom and kindness.。
And I hope that God's love for them will continue to grow.。
I also hope that my marriage with my wife。
will be more stable.。
Having a Christian child。
is like the three-pieced ring of the ring.。
It is not easy to break.。
In my opinion,。
the scripture says that。
love and blessings can be passed on from generation to generation.。
I hope that Christ will continue to transform me。
and transform me to become a better father.。
The relationship between father and son。
or the blessing between generation to generation。
is not only about how to deal with the tension between father and son。
or how to guide them.。
More importantly,。
God's blessing can be a family legacy.。
It is not only about the blessing on material or health.。
We can use our next generation, our children,。
to know that we have a father in heaven.。
I hope that God will entrust him to me as their father。
to show how much God's father loves them.。
I have prepared some dumplings for everyone to eat.。
I will go to the kitchen now to prepare them.。
Let's eat together, okay?。
Okay, very good.。
Let's eat.。
Okay.。
(glasses clinking)。
