What a joy it is to sing together of the reality of Christ's presence on earth.。
We're going to move into a time now of listening, of thanksgiving for Christ's birth.。
May God our Father, who sent Jesus to be the light of the world,。
make us shine with His love so that we are quick to serve, help, comfort anyone in need,。
and ready to follow wherever Jesus leads.。
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God.。
And the Word was God, for in Him was life, and the life was the light of all people.。
The true light, which gives light to everyone, came into the world.。
Glory to the newborn King!。
God is light. In Him there is no darkness at all.。
Although darkness covered the earth and the people lived in thick darkness,。
God's glory appeared to us.。
The Lord is our everlasting light, so glory to the newborn King!。
Jesus came to the people who walked in darkness.。
He is the light of the world.。
He came to His own home, and the people did not accept Him.。
But to all who receive Him, He gives power to become the children of God.。
Glory to the newborn King!。
The Word became flesh and lived amongst us, and we have seen His glory.。
The glory as of a Father's only Son, full of grace and truth.。
To Jesus, light of the world.。
To God, the Creator, who said, "Let there be light."。
To the Holy Spirit, bringing light to our lives, be praise and glory now and forever.。
And glory to the newborn King!。
We're now going to hear the Christmas story in a number of sections.。
Let's open the ears of our hearts to Scripture together.。
[Silence]。
Once, many, many years ago, in the country of Israel, far across the sea,。
on the other side of the world from us, a very special event took place.。
It happened when the Emperor, Caesar Augustus, ordered that a census, a count of all people,。
should be taken throughout the whole world.。
Everyone had to register, all the members of their family,。
and they had to do this by going to the town where their great-great-great-great-great,。
ever so many great-grandfather lived.。
There was a couple named Mary and Joseph, who lived in the village of Nazareth.。
They had to go down south to the town of Bethlehem, where King David once had lived,。
because he was their great-great-great-great-great, ever so many great-grandfather.。
It probably took Mary and Joseph three or four days to travel to Bethlehem.。
They took their donkey, which Mary rode with Joseph, alongside.。
Mary was pregnant with their baby, and their baby was almost due.。
Joseph was sorry that Mary had to go on this long journey at this time of her pregnancy,。
but he couldn't leave her behind.。
And besides, Mary wanted Joseph to be there whenever the baby was to be born.。
When they got to Bethlehem, the town was absolutely bustling with all the visitors.。
There were people everywhere and activities going all over the place。
because everyone had to come for the census.。
Joseph tried to find somewhere for them to stay, but every hotel and inn in the town was full.。
Finally, they found one whose kind owner, although he didn't have room for them inside the inn,。
made a place for them in the stables.。
There, they had a shelter for them for the night from the cold weather.。
And after the long days of the journey, the time came for Mary to have the baby.。
There in the stable with the animals in the stalls, her first son was born.。
She wrapped him in a blanket and laid him in the manger.。
Mary and Joseph named him Jesus, as an angel had told them to do.。
Church, as we sing this next song, we give you a space to reflect on the elements。
and on what it might have been on that first Christmas.。
So as this song plays, you can sing with us, but stay seated and just reflect and think through that.。
The Announcement to the Shepherds。
On the hills just outside of Bethlehem, there were some shepherds spending the night with their flocks of sheep.。
It was dark and quiet on the hillside.。
Suddenly, there was a great light glistening in the sky, and they saw an angel.。
The glory of the Lord shone on them.。
They were so amazed that they were very frightened.。
Nothing like this had ever happened to them before.。
But the angel said to them, "Don't be afraid. I bring you good news which will be a great joy to all people."。
Today in the town of Bethlehem, a Savior has been born, Christ the Lord.。
This will be the sign for you.。
You will find the baby wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger.。
And suddenly, there is a huge crowd of heaven's angels with the first angel,。
and they fill the whole sky with their song, "Glory to God in the highest and peace to his people on earth."。
The Visit of the Shepherds。
When the angels had left and gone back to the heavens, the shepherds said to each other,。
"Let's go to Bethlehem and see this thing that the angels have told us about."。
So they left their sheep on the hillside and hurried off to Bethlehem.。
When they got there, they looked around until they found Mary and Joseph in the stable,。
with baby Jesus lying in the manger.。
When they saw them, they told Mary and Joseph all the things that the angels had said about the child.。
Then the shepherds returned to their flocks, singing and praising God all the way back.。
It had been just as the angels said it would be.。
The Visit of the Wise Men。
When Jesus was born in Bethlehem, Herod was king of Israel.。
He lived in a palace in Jerusalem.。
Soon after Jesus' birth, some men who studied the stars came from the east to Jerusalem.。
They had seen a new and special star in the sky, which showed them that the king had been born.。
They had travelled a long way to find the new king.。
They asked people in Jerusalem, "Where is the baby who is born to be king of the Jews?"。
King Herod heard about this.。
It made him very upset because he was the king of Israel, and he didn't know anything about the baby,。
any baby who is going to grow up and be king instead of him.。
So he called the Jewish chief priests and teachers of the law to the palace,。
and he asked them where the Messiah was to be born.。
They said, "In Bethlehem," because that's where the prophet Micah said many years ago.。
So Herod called the wise men who had come from the east to a secret meeting.。
He asked them exactly what time the star had appeared.。
They told him.。
Then he sent them on to Bethlehem, and he said, "When you get there, search and find the child.。
Then come and tell me so I can go to Bethlehem and worship him too."。
Away they went to Bethlehem.。
The star led them all the way.。
Eventually, it stopped just over the place where Jesus was staying.。
The wise men were very happy about that.。
They went inside the house and saw the baby with his mother, Mary.。
They knelt down, and they worshipped him.。
Then they opened their bags and took out their gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh.。
It's wonderful that we get to celebrate with gifts at Christmastime as we give one another gifts,。
as we celebrate our friends and our family, as we gather together in whatever ways that you will do so this evening and tomorrow.。
As you do gather, as you reflect on some of the things that we've been sharing tonight,。
as you think about what Christ's light means to you,。
our prayer as a church for you is that you would know comfort, you would know hope,。
and you would know that no matter what might take place in your life,。
and everybody has good times and challenging times,。
that whatever might happen for you, you would know that you're never alone.。
The great joy of Christmas for us is that we have a Savior who is willing to be stepped into our darkness.。
Emmanuel, as Scripture calls Him, God with us,。
so that no matter what might take place, we are literally never alone.。
Our prayer for you as a church is that you would know the power of the Spirit of God,。
that Spirit that sits with us and makes us know that we are forgiven, renewed, and redeemed in Him,。
and a Spirit that guides us far better than that star guided those wise men.。
A Spirit alive in each one of us so that we might know God's heart, His word, His encouragement, His comfort,。
and His power so that we can live as a light in the world around us.。
So as you go tonight, you will take your candle and you will light it at some point,。
and as you do so, you remind yourself of the fire that burns inside of you through the empowerment of God's Spirit.。
And for the lucky few amongst us, because we only have about 40 bottles left,。
we have some mulled wine available.。
It's not for free, you have to purchase it.。
You're also not allowed to drink it on our premises, but it is wine.。
It has alcohol in it.。
You can find joy by joining together with your family with wine.。
And we have some of these bottles available, and we want to encourage you, if you would like to,。
you can purchase some of those.。
We sold these about three weeks ago. Don't worry, this is a fresh batch.。
It's only three weeks old.。
But there are some of those available for you tonight if you would like to purchase one on the way out.。
But as we close, may we do so with a few more lines of liturgy as I pray and you respond.。
God, our Father, you give light to this world so that it shines with your glory.。
Lead us to see the beauty of your heavenly glory through Jesus Christ, our Lord.。
Lord Jesus Christ, light of the world, make our lives pure so that we may shine with your light in this world for you.。
Holy Spirit, moving across the face of the earth, breathing new life and shedding new light,。
renew us as we shine with the light of Christ in the world.。
As you go tonight, you go in one of the main themes that Christmas is all about, the theme of joy.。
And what better way for us to finish our time together than singing that well-known carol, Joy to the World.。
Would you stand with me and may we join in praise together as a congregation.。
