Thank you, worship team, and (speaks in foreign language)。
God's blessings be with you,。
and may you be filled with the energy。
of horses and dragons, something like that, right?。
Anyway, it's happy new year,。
and I'm glad to see it's an honor to be here this morning.。
We're gonna be in Colossians chapter three,。
so if you have a Bible,。
if you wanna turn your attention to the screen,。
Colossians chapter three is where。
we'll be talking about today.。
I'm gonna read it first,。
and then we're gonna carry on with the message.。
It says this, this is the word of the Lord.。
"Therefore, as God's chosen people,。
"holy and dearly loved,。
"clothe yourselves with compassion,。
"kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience.。
"Bear with each other and forgive one another。
"if you have any grievance against someone.。
"Forgive as the Lord forgave you,。
"and over all these virtues, put on love,。
"which binds them all together in perfect unity.。
"Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts。
"since as members of one body,。
"you are called to peace, and be thankful."。
So it is new year,。
and if you've been celebrating Chinese New Year,。
it's probably been quite a busy time in the past few days,。
and the next few days coming up, right?。
Lots of visiting families, visiting friends,。
all that kind of stuff.。
Certain things just have to be done, right?。
You maybe had to do a good spring cleaning of your house,。
lots of dinners.。
We had our family over last night for dinner,。
and great, we had some hot pots,。
but it isn't Chinese New Year。
until your mom starts singing karaoke really badly.。
Actually, my mom's a decent singer,。
but she was singing William Fong,。
and then I turned up the volume.。
What was she singing?。
♪ Da da da dee dee new fong ♪。
♪ Da da da da da da ♪。
You know, all those kind of old Cantonese pop songs。
that she likes, so we had a good time last night.。
But you know, you probably got your hair cut,。
stuffing Lai Si, passing out Lai Si,。
all these traditional aspects of Chinese New Year。
that we celebrate in this time.。
And one of the quintessential things we do。
at Chinese New Year is wear new clothes.。
Buy new clothes and wear new clothes, right?。
Especially new red clothing.。
It's a sign of blessing, it's a sign of the festive season.。
We love doing these things, okay?。
So, what am I wearing today?。
This is Uniqlo, okay?。
Oh, yeah.。
It's not that new even, okay?。
But it is Uniqlo, okay?。
I'm a Uniqlo kind of guy.。
They make good clothing for short, muscular Asian guys, okay?。
(audience laughing)。
So I like shopping there, okay?。
But it's also kind of ironic.。
Uniqlo, it's supposed to be unique clothing,。
but because they make a thousand。
or a million of the same thing, right?。
You buy new clothes at Chinese New Year,。
you walk out the street, everybody looks the same, right?。
We're all wearing Uniqlo.。
There's nothing quite unique about it.。
But they are new clothes, right?。
We buy new clothes at Chinese New Year。
as a symbol of the new blessings,。
the new things that we expect to come, right?。
This is why we get new clothes.。
So it got me thinking about clothing,。
and not just Chinese New Year.。
Like, you know, today we're all dressed in our best,。
wearing red and all this kind of stuff.。
But clothing, actually, we have a fascinating relationship。
with clothing and fashion, right?。
It's become a very inextricable part of our lives.。
Interestingly, though, clothing was never。
a part of God's original plan, all right?。
Genesis tells us that Adam and Eve。
were naked and unashamed.。
The word in Greek, naked, means naked, okay?。
Naked and unashamed, right?。
It was only after they sinned that they realized。
that they were naked, and God clothed them, right?。
The Lord made garments of sin for Adam and his wife,。
and he clothed them.。
And just like that, God created the first fashion line ever.。
Garments of sin, the fall edition.。
(audience groans)。
You see what I did there, okay?。
And this is why, yeah, okay, thank you, Ken, thank you.。
Every morning now, we have to go through。
the painful decision of picking out what clothes to wear.。
But clothes are significant, right?。
Certain places we go have certain dress clothes,。
different seasons has different clothing, right?。
Clothing is very much a part of our cultural identity,。
like this I'm wearing today, right?。
Something a bit more traditional, a bit old school,。
but it's part of our cultural identity.。
Helps us to represent our ethnic roots, right?。
Or think about going to a prom or an awards ceremony。
or a bride on a wedding day,。
the exciting process of finding the perfect dress.。
Right, clothing can also be sentimental.。
A lot of us have the one T-shirt or that hoodie。
we've been holding on for like 25 years.。
We just can't get rid of it because it means so much to us。
and it's so soft and comfy.。
Clothing can even help to define history.。
Victorian England, right, small waist, big shoulders,。
that was what it was all about.。
'60s and '70s, all about peace signs and ponchos,。
that was the style back then.。
'80s and '90s with the neon colors。
and the high-waisted jeans,。
which are sort of making a comeback these days, I see.。
In the 2000s, I went through a phase。
where I thought I was a gangster rapper, okay?。
And so I would wear baggy jeans, the big T-shirts。
and the bandana around the front of my head like this, okay?。
Yeah, that was exciting, right?。
That was, okay, let me tell you about this, okay?。
So I thought I was Tupac, okay?。
But I wasn't quite cool enough to be Tupac,。
so my friends, true story, used to call me half-pack, okay?。
Because I was trying so hard to be like Tupac.。
But you know, clothing is important.。
That's what I was trying to say.。
Actually, sometimes I think it gets a bit ridiculous.。
We take it too far.。
Right, you see a Wan Chai Market T-shirt,。
$50, you can get a nice white T-shirt,。
but you put Balenciaga on it, okay?。
And suddenly that T-shirt is worth $500, all right?。
They are shoes, handbags。
that cost literally more than a house.。
I say all this just to make the point.。
Clothing is significant.。
It's significant because it marks us out。
and defines us in some sort of way.。
As you think about new clothes and the Chinese New Year,。
the big question for us this morning is this.。
How have we clothed ourselves?。
Like how does our clothing define us as a family?。
And when I say family, I mean us here today。
as followers of Jesus, that divine church in this community.。
What is it that marks us out?。
How do we clothe ourselves?。
Like when people look at us from the outside,。
how do these people clothe themselves?。
What defines them?。
What do you think people are saying?。
This is an important question to ask。
as we step into the new year,。
because we've been talking,。
we've come out of our January fast,。
we've just come out of the Exodus series not too long ago,。
and so we've been talking about a lot of concepts。
and all these kind of things,。
but it's time, I think, just from going,。
we need to go from thinking and hearing。
to actually start doing and being, right?。
In this season where we've been talking about intimacy,。
we actually have to start living lives of intimacy。
rather than just hearing about it.。
Lives are actually deeply connected and intimate。
with God and the people around us.。
'Cause what I hope is that when people look at us。
from the outside, they're saying to themselves,。
you know what, this group looks good.。
I like what they're wearing.。
I want to be a part of this community.。
I wanna be like those people too.。
So you could say this passage we're studying today。
is like the ultimate fashion guide for the church, okay?。
For followers of Jesus, this is the ultimate fashion guide.。
Because in the passage we just read,。
Paul uses clothes and fashion as a metaphor。
to describe the certain virtues and character traits。
that we should put on as followers of Jesus.。
He says this, first of all.。
Therefore, as God's chosen people, holy and dearly loved.。
Let's pause right there for a minute.。
Paul starts by reminding us about who we are.。
So let's remind ourselves about who we are.。
If you're sitting here today,。
or if you're listening online or in a podcast later on,。
and you've given your life to Jesus,。
you are a part of God's chosen people.。
You are holy, which means you have been set apart.。
This is what the word holy means.。
You have been wholly set apart by God,。
and he loves you dearly.。
You are special to him.。
This is who you are.。
This is your identity.。
So it has to mean something to you。
if that's what you want to embrace.。
You are holy and dearly loved.。
Pastor Andrew mentioned this last week。
when he reminded us it's out of God's intimate relationship。
with us that we can truly find our identity。
in who he's created us to be.。
He loves you, and he wants you to love him.。
You're set apart, which means you are different。
to who you were before you gave your life to Jesus.。
You are different to those who don't know Jesus yet.。
We're like people that have taken off。
the shabby clothes that we used to wear.。
Paul defines this as rage, anger, malice,。
slander, filthy language.。
These are things he says in the verses before this.。
We've taken off those old clothes。
so that we can put on new clothes.。
This is our starting point,。
because it reminds us that we are being called。
into something not that we do。
with our own ability or power.。
God starts this process of clothing us.。
We are called into this not by our own ability,。
not by our own power.。
We have been chosen by God not because we are good,。
but because God has been good to us, amen?。
We have been called holy not because we are perfect。
and sinless, but because God has given us his holiness.。
We are loved not because we're lovable,。
but because God chooses to love us no matter what.。
This is the gospel.。
This is the good news,。
and this is our starting point for today.。
We are chosen, holy and dearly loved,。
changed and renewed, which is why we must do this.。
We must clothe ourselves with compassion,。
kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience.。
Just one more illustration.。
Maybe you can think about it this way.。
Imagine you've done some exercise,。
you've gone to the gym, gone for a run。
or something like that, you're all sweaty and gross,。
so you get cleaned up, you have a nice shower, okay?。
You're clean.。
You're not gonna put on those sweaty clothes again, right?。
You're gonna go to your closet。
and put on new, fresh, clean clothes.。
And so in the spirit of Chinese New Year,。
these are the clothes that I feel like God's trying。
to encourage us, all of us, to put on。
as we step into the year of the dragon.。
First thing he says is this.。
We have to put on clothes of compassion.。
Now, if compassion was an item of clothing,。
it might be a soft, really soft, well-fitting T-shirt,。
something like that, something that covers your body, okay?。
The word compassion actually translates。
as like the bowels of compassion, okay?。
It's something a bit more passionate than just compassion。
because in ancient thought, right,。
they thought that it's the bowels。
that's where emotion and feelings came from, right?。
And it sort of makes sense, right?。
Think about it this way.。
When you have a strong emotional reaction to something,。
right, you feel it right here, right, in your gut,。
in the pit of your stomach.。
That's why we say something, it's like gut-wrenching。
when we see it, right?。
You feel it right here.。
So compassion is then when we're able。
to sympathize with someone.。
We get that feeling.。
We're able to sympathize with them so much。
that it affects our innermost being,。
that we have to do something about it.。
You ever had that when you see something,。
see someone, you just get that feeling,。
you know, it's like, this isn't right.。
I'm feeling something and I have to do something about it.。
It's what the Gospels tell us when it says。
Jesus was moved with compassion.。
When he saw people who were lost,。
when he saw people who were sick,。
when we saw people who were hungry,。
it was more than just that he felt the feeling,。
but it was more than that, right?。
This compassion led him to reach out,。
to love them, to heal them, and to feed them.。
So church, have we put on compassion?。
Like when we look at the world around us,。
when we see people today who are lost and sick。
and hungry and helpless, mistreated,。
are we so affected by it that we feel that。
and we actually have to do something about it。
to try and make it right?。
The first thing we need to do, church,。
is put on compassion together.。
We put on compassion so we're not just loving。
in word and tongue, but in deed and truth.。
For this is what true compassion is, love in action.。
Next thing Paul tells us, encourages us to put on is this,。
kindness.。
Kindness as an item of clothing。
could be like a pair of gloves, right?。
Because kindness has to do how you reach out。
and react to others.。
You could define kindness as having the attitude of Jesus。
towards people around you.。
And again, throughout scripture we see that Jesus。
is always kind to people,。
always ready to help in times of need,。
showing grace and mercy when he could have chosen。
wrath or anger instead.。
It's interesting, right?。
The Bible tells us that it's the kindness of God。
that leads people to change.。
It's the kindness of God that leads people to repentance,。
to recognize their sin and their need for him.。
So in the same way, church,。
we've been encouraged to put on kindness.。
We've been commanded even to put on kindness.。
Because when we put on kindness, it's like saying。
we now have the mind of Christ towards others.。
Because Jesus has been kind to us,。
we are called to be kind to everybody.。
So when that person is on the MTR and is crowded。
and they bump into you, your reaction is not just。
you step on the back of the shoe a little bit。
so they trip as they fall, as they get up.。
I don't do that, by the way, okay?。
I'm not teaching you guys anything, okay?。
But instead, you choose kindness.。
And if kindness that truly leads people to repentance,。
then kindness is actually the number one thing,。
one of the best things we can do。
to reach people with the gospel.。
When the world that's hurting and lost in sin comes to us,。
when people approach us with their messiness and their lies,。
how do we respond?。
Right?。
Do we bash them with the Bible, with rules and regulations?。
Yeah, I told you so.。
It's because you haven't been doing this, this, this.。
Now look, you're a mess.。
Is that our reaction?。
Do we shame them for their sin?。
Or which do you think will be more effective?。
Maybe it's reaching out in kindness。
to sit with them, to understand them.。
I would say that being kind is the most powerful thing,。
one of the most powerful things we can do.。
When the world reaches out to us, we reach out in kindness.。
Next, Paul tells us to put on humility.。
So humility I see as like a sturdy pair of socks, right?。
Nothing fancy, but without them,。
your feet get stinky and sweaty, right?。
You know the Cantonese saying,。
(speaking in foreign language)。
If you wear socks without shoes, right,。
it makes your feet stinky and it's really gross, okay?。
That's basically what it translates to.。
But I say this in the same way, okay?。
If we do anything without humility, it's gonna stink.。
If we do anything without humility,。
no one wants to come near it.。
People don't like hanging out。
with arrogant and proud people, right?。
Okay, maybe you can think about it this way.。
If kindness is looking at others in a Christlike way,。
like I just said,。
humility is looking at yourself in a Christlike way.。
C.S. Lewis puts it this way,。
"Humility is not thinking less about yourself,。
"but thinking about yourself less."。
So humility means that we're willing。
to give up our own rights。
so that others can have their rights.。
But after all, this is what Jesus did for us.。
Leaving his place in heaven,。
he humbled himself, becoming obedient to death,。
even death on a cross.。
And humility is essential。
for your relationship with Jesus, first of all,。
because how are you gonna follow somebody。
if you think that you know better than them?。
But humility is also essential。
for our relationship with each other,。
because how are you gonna sit and listen to each other。
when you're already looking down at them?。
So church, have we put on humility。
so we can walk out our relationship with Jesus。
and walk out our relationship with others?。
When we put on humility, we're saying,。
"There's no judgment here.。
"You are welcome to be with us."。
We put on humility.。
And then we have gentleness.。
You know, in the ancient world where Paul lived,。
gentleness was sometimes seen as something。
to be looked down upon,。
because it was seen as a weakness.。
Nobody ever won wars and battles by being gentle.。
Alexander the Great wasn't known for his gentleness.。
He was known for his brutality.。
And in those days, and even now to some extent,。
brutality, force, anger is how you showed strength and power.。
That's what gets things done.。
But if you look at gentleness as like a scarf,。
it might help us to put this in context a little bit.。
Scarves are like a soft, fluffy piece of material,。
but when it's wrapped around you right,。
it protects you from the cold.。
Even in the middle of a really cold snowstorm,。
if you have a scarf around you, it makes a big difference.。
Helps you feel warm and safe and protected.。
So gentleness then you can see,。
it's like strength in disguise.。
It's like a wild horse with all that power。
that's been tamed so you can control it.。
Think about it this way.。
When you get angry, when you get triggered,。
what's the easiest thing to do?。
The easiest thing to do is to react right then, then.。
I'm learning gentle parenting at the moment, right?。
And it always talks about regulate yourself。
before you speak to your child, okay?。
The easy thing to do for me though is just shout, right?。
Just to react.。
Shut up, be quiet, go to your room, things like that.。
Match your volume, their volume with your volume.。
Match their anger with rage.。
When you get hit in the face, the easier thing to do。
is to hit that person right back.。
So you have to understand when Jesus says。
if someone hits you, you're supposed to。
turn the other cheek, right?。
Think about it.。
That takes a lot more strength, self-control.。
To restrain yourself.。
That's not an easy thing to do.。
That's not a weak thing to do.。
But it is the gentle thing to do.。
And so gentleness is essential within this community。
for without it, we would constantly be。
at war with each other.。
Without gentleness, we would be dealing。
with each other harshly all the time.。
Without gentleness, we would just bully our way,。
not considering others, but just doing whatever we wanted.。
But the strength of gentleness,。
it's going to bring people together.。
A community that shows gentleness to each other。
is one that reflects God's heart towards us.。
A church that's known for being gentle。
is where people are gonna come and feel safe。
with their feelings, with their emotions,。
with their mess that we just talked about.。
Because they know they're gonna be met。
with gentleness for their burdens.。
But don't hear me wrong, church.。
It's not a weakness.。
It doesn't mean we just let people run over us。
and do whatever they want.。
That's not the point.。
Gentleness is about showing power and strength。
that does not condemn and put down and belittle.。
But rather when we reach out in gentleness,。
we're able to reach people with love,。
draw people in so then they can receive。
the help that they need.。
So we put on gentleness.。
Next four says we have to put on patience.。
Patience is like a pair of sunglasses perhaps.。
You could think about it that way.。
Right, when you put on sunglasses,。
it cuts out the harshness of the light。
so you can fully open your eyes。
and clearly see what's in front of you.。
In the same way, right, we need patience。
in order to see things and people。
for what and who they truly are.。
Patience is what's gonna help you stop,。
maybe seek advice if that's needed,。
get into a good headspace。
before making a decision about something.。
Patience is what's gonna help you stop。
and listen to yourself before simply just blurting out。
whatever comes to mind.。
Patience is what's gonna help you wait on the Lord。
instead of just going ahead with whatever plans。
that you had for yourself.。
Patience is what's gonna allow you。
to walk through seasons of endurance,。
refinement, maybe even suffering sometimes.。
If it's for your own good.。
So that's for you.。
But patience is also a great gift and blessing。
that you can offer to others as well.。
For if you have patience,。
it's gonna allow you to be able to sit in the valley。
with those who are hurt.。
Patience allows you to never stop,。
cease praying for those around you。
as scripture calls us to do.。
Patience will allow you to be able to hold a calm。
and civil conversation with someone。
even if you fundamentally disagree with them.。
We are called to put on patience。
because God has been patient to us.。
Scripture says this,。
the Lord is not slow in keeping his promise。
as some understand slowness.。
Instead, he has been patient with you.。
We're called to put on patience。
because the Lord God is compassionate and gracious,。
slow to anger and abounding in love.。
So church, let's put on patience.。
Finally, we have love.。
Love is what binds everything together.。
Love is like the big overcoat。
that protects and covers everything.。
Paul talks about love often.。
He describes love as the greatest of all things.。
He says when all things have faded away,。
the only thing remaining will be love.。
Love is the one thing that he guarantees will never fail.。
This is also important because here's the truth.。
As much effort as we do to put on these new clothes,。
we are not perfect people.。
So we're gonna need to forgive each other sometimes.。
If you take the illustration,。
sometimes we're gonna have a wardrobe malfunction, okay?。
Our patience runs out.。
We might not be as kind as we hope to be.。
We may respond in a harsh word。
instead of just taking the time to listen to someone.。
We may fail to truly understand each other.。
We act out of anger rather than kindness.。
When this happens, it's our love for each other。
that's gonna allow us to forgive.。
It's our love for each other that's what's gonna ensure。
that we don't break apart when the hard times come,。
but rather seek to honor and encourage each other。
to strive forward to be better.。
So love, therefore, is like the ultimate protector.。
And without love, we would be nothing.。
Finally then, Paul tells us this,。
that the peace of Christ rule in your hearts.。
The peace of Christ you can see maybe as a crown。
that sits above the whole outfit.。
Because the important thing is this, church.。
These aren't just virtues we follow because they're good.。
Good rules to be a good human being, right?。
That's not the point.。
The point is not for us just to become good people, okay?。
Rather, we aim for these things。
because we know who we belong to.。
We put on these things, like I said in the beginning,。
because the peace of Christ, we are God's people.。
The peace of Christ rules in our hearts.。
We do these things because our hearts。
have been so captivated by Jesus.。
He is the one we're trying to live like.。
He is the one that rules and directs how we live.。
That's what's gonna make the ultimate difference.。
It's not just about being good people.。
It's about being Jesus to other people.。
That's what's gonna keep us together as one body, right?。
It's not just about looking good.。
We wear these clothes because we are ruled by Jesus.。
We belong to him, we follow him.。
If you've noticed, all these things are things。
that Jesus lived out as he was on this earth.。
They're simply imitating who Jesus was.。
He is the one who rules our hearts,。
so he is the one we live for.。
Because ultimately, it's this.。
Fashion trends will come and go, right?。
Cargo shorts aren't cool anymore, guys, okay?。
Because if we're trying to look like,。
if what we're trying to do is just look good, right,。
that's gonna go out of fashion someday.。
But what we're trying to do, if we look like Jesus,。
if we're trying to be like Jesus,。
that's never gonna go old.。
That's never gonna run out of style.。
So, that let the peace of Christ rule in our hearts.。
And then Paul says this, be thankful.。
Now, on a day like today, I wanted specifically。
to end with these words because I think it helps us。
to keep a good perspective on Chinese New Year.。
Like I said, this is when I started,。
Chinese New Year, we step into this season,。
and it's very much about blessings.。
Actually, it's more than just blessings.。
It's really about getting rich, right?。
Gong yei fat choy, you know?。
I hope you get rich, I hope I get rich,。
and we hope everybody gets rich, okay?。
That's the sort of general mindset。
we step into this season upon.。
And therefore, when we just keep thinking。
about blessings all the time,。
when we keep on thinking about blessings。
and blessings and blessings, if we're not careful,。
as Pastor Andrew reminded us a few weeks ago,。
it's easy for this to interfere。
our relationship with God and others.。
We start to want things of God more than God himself.。
And then when it comes to these things,。
we feel like we wanna look good sometimes,。
just so we look like, oh, you know,。
I've been doing all these things,。
I've been a good Christian, God, bless me more.。
Give me more, I've been following all the rules.。
But like I said, it's not about that.。
And one of the best ways we can guard ourselves。
in that mindset is to be thankful.。
It's impossible to be resentful and thankful。
at the same time.。
And as followers of Jesus, we don't need to go。
to Wang Dai Hsin or Tze Kung Miu to spin the wheels,。
to ask for those gods, to burn incense。
for good fame and for good fortune, right?。
We don't need someone else to tell us。
what our fortune is gonna look like for the upcoming year,。
because we follow Jesus, and that's enough.。
Because we are thankful for the things。
that God has given to us, and we can be content,。
and that's enough.。
And if you wanna remind of how thankful we need to be,。
just take a look around you, church.。
These are your brothers and sisters in Christ,。
your family, your friends in Christ,。
sat around you, gathered here today.。
This building, this space we have right here,。
is a sign of God's faithfulness throughout the years。
that he's blessed us with already.。
We just need to stop and think for a minute,。
and help us to be thankful.。
Do we see fellow children of God gathered together today,。
dressed in the best of God's clothing,。
not just literally, but in the ways。
that we talked about just now?。
So as a family, church, I wonder if we could spend some time。
blessing each other in this way this morning.。
One of the things we do at Chinese New Year。
is to visit friends and family, to bless them,。
to pray with them, to spend time with them.。
So we're actually gonna set aside some time。
to do that right now.。
Now, there's a lot of people in this room,。
and if you're out in the overflow watching online,。
you can try and do this too.。
But maybe you came in with friends or family today,。
maybe there's people around you.。
Stop and take a moment right now.。
Remember those things that we just talked about,。
that you're clothed in.。
And then as you look around you,。
ask God, okay, how can I bless this person today?。
Maybe there's a word of encouragement,。
maybe it's a prayer, maybe it's a blessing。
you can say over them, something God places in your heart,。
or something that you think would be a blessing。
to your family in Christ right now.。
Okay, the band's gonna play softly.。
We're gonna set aside about five, 10 minutes to do this.。
Okay, so church, just take a moment, think about it.。
All right, and then start interacting。
with the people around you.。
Spend some time with your church family this morning。
in order to bless them, to pray for them, to encourage them.。
Let's bless each other by praying for them.。
Let's bless each other by showing compassion,。
kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience,。
and see what God has to say to us。
as a community this morning.。
So come on, church, I encourage you.。
The band's gonna play.。
We're gonna spend a little bit of time doing this,。
and then I'm gonna come and pray for us。
in just a little while, okay?。
