Amen. Let's hear it for Ben. Ben and I support the same soccer team, same football team, so。
it's good to be up there. 11 o'clock tonight, right, we'll be ready for the match. It's so。
good to be back in Yuen Long and to have the opportunity to be part of this Living the Kingdom。
Parable series. A parable is of course an earthly story with a heavenly meaning, and Pastor Tim has。
already graciously led us through the parable of the workers in the vineyard and the parables of。
the lost coin and the lost sheep. I'm speaking today about the parable of the Pharisee and the。
tax collector. It is taken from Luke chapter 18, and without further ado I'd like us to read it.。
To some who are confident of their own righteousness and look down on everyone else,。
Jesus told this parable. Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other。
a tax collector. The Pharisee stood by himself and he prayed, "God I thank you that I'm not like other。
people, robbers, evildoers, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week。
and I give a tenth of all I get."。
But the tax collector stood at a distance.。
He would not even look up to heaven, but he beat his breast and said, "Lord have mercy on me,。
a sinner."。
I tell you it was this man rather than the other who went home justified before God.。
For all those who exalt themselves will be humbled, and those who humble themselves will be exalted.。
I always think it helps when we study a passage in scripture to see what comes before it。
and to see what comes after it. I always say you know you take a text。
out of context and all that is left is a con, and I'm not here to con you this morning.。
But what I did found interesting as I prepared this week, I discovered that this parable。
is rather like a bridge and I've put on here Shenzhen Bay Bridge just down the road.。
You see in the previous chapter, Luke chapter 17, the Pharisees, the religious people,。
were pestering Jesus about the kingdom he had been referring to.。
The kingdom against the backdrop of the oppressive and heartless Roman Empire. Jesus had said this,。
"Once on being asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come,。
Jesus replied, 'The coming of the kingdom of God is not something that can be observed,。
nor will people say, 'Here it is, there it is,' because the kingdom of God is in your midst.'"。
You see the Pharisees were looking for signs for the coming of the kingdom.。
Jesus tells them not to be looking to signs but to be looking to him.。
The kingdom of God had already come.。
He was it and they failed to recognize him.。
Jesus then turns from the Pharisees to his disciples. Remember he's walking towards Jerusalem。
where he's going to die on a cross. He's going to raise from the dead and then ascend into heaven.。
It won't be long before all these sweet days of hanging out with Jesus,。
walking to Jerusalem, are going to come to an end for the disciples.。
At the end of this discourse he tells them two parables. The first one is the parable。
of the persistent widow which we will have to save for another day. But just look how Jesus began it.。
Verse 1 chapter 18, "Then Jesus told his disciples a parable to tell them they should always pray,。
always pray and not give up." He then uses the analogy of a persistent widow。
to illustrate the difference between an unjust judge and a just God.。
But you might be asking yourself why have I spent all this time describing the approach to the road。
rather than the bridge itself. To use my Shenzhen Bay Bridge analogy, am I enjoying myself。
in Laofu San eating the seafood rather than taking the Shenzhen Bridge? I tell you why.。
Because the Pharisees may at this stage have put two and two together and made five.。
And they may have concluded that long public battling prayers would put them on the right road。
to cross the bridge. Follow the rules and you'll be on the right path.。
But what I want to do now is to skip forward to the other side of the bridge. Perhaps I'm in Czecho.。
The verses that follow this parable and see what we find there.。
Let's move to verse 15 and June has already said these words this morning.。
"People were also bringing babies to Jesus for him to place his hands on them. When the disciples。
saw this, they rebuked them. But Jesus called the children to him and said, 'Let the little。
children come to me and do not hinder them for the kingdom of God belongs to such of them.'。
Truly I tell you, anyone who will not receive the kingdom of God like a little child will not enter。
it." Anyone who will not receive the kingdom of God like a little child would not enter it.。
Now notice it does not say anyone who has read the Bible from cover to cover,。
anyone who prays five times a day, attends community group every week,。
and is faithfully tied to the church will enter the kingdom of God.。
Now you may not have heard this approach before,。
but the bridge from persistent prayer。
to childlikeness has apparently come through the parable we are studying today.。
You see, the Pharisees could be best described as those who trusted in themselves。
and held others in contempt. That's why Jesus said, "Two men went up to the temple to pray,。
one a Pharisee, the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood by himself and prayed,。
'God, I thank you I'm not like other people, robbers, evildoers, adulterers,。
even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week and give a tenth of all I get.'"。
I put these verses on the screen again. Notice how often he uses the word "I."。
"God, I thank you that I am not like other people, these various people. I fast twice a week and I。
give a tenth of all I get." Four times in NIV, the word "I." I went to the ESV this week and it's。
five times. It says, "I give a tenth of all I get." Now the Pharisee is saying this, "I am not like。
other men. It's all about me, me, me, not me, myself and Irene." He is so full of himself.。
He is doing all the right things and he wants an A+. He wants a gold star.。
He wants a badge of honor. We see a lot of this in Hong Kong.。
On reflection, it was fascinating that Jesus chose a tax collector to compare with a Pharisee.。
If we look elsewhere in the Bible, Jesus used the commonly held opinion of tax collectors。
as an illustration of the final stage of church discipline.。
When a person is excommunicated, thrown out of the church, Jesus said in Matthew 18, 17,。
to treat them as you would a pagan or a tax collector. In other words, the excommunicant。
is to be considered an outsider and a candidate for evangelism. Invite them on the Alpha Course.。
By way of background, there are a number of reasons for the low view of tax collectors。
in the New Testament era. Firstly, no one likes to pay money to the government, right?。
Especially when the government is an oppressive regime like the Roman Empire of the first century.。
Those who collected the taxes for such a government bore the brunt of much public displeasure.。
Secondly, the tax collectors in the Bible were Jews.。
And they were Jews who were working for the hated Romans.。
These individuals were seen as turncoats, traders to their own countrymen.。
Rather than fighting the Roman oppressors, the publicans were helping them。
and enriching themselves at the expense of their fellow Jews.。
And thirdly, it was common knowledge that the tax collectors cheated the people they collected from.。
By hook or by crook, they would collect more than required and keep the extra for themselves.。
Some jacks all right.。
Everyone just understood that was how it worked.。
Remember the tax collector Zacchaeus in his confession to the Lord mentioned his past dishonesty.。
But this is where the parable turns itself on its head.。
Verse 13.。
But the tax collector stood at a distance.。
He wouldn't even look up to heaven but beat his breast.。
Said, "God, have mercy on me, a sinner."。
Wow, wow, wow. Let's pause for a moment and give Jesus the last word.。
I tell you that this man rather than the other went home justified before God.。
For those who exalted themselves will be humbled and those who humble themselves will be exalted.。
Let's look at what's happened here. The guy who justified himself was humbled.。
The guy who humbled himself was justified.。
This my friends is the kingdom of God.。
Let me say that again. This my friends is the kingdom of God.。
Now to help us further, let me give you a modern version of this parable.。
In the modern version of this parable, I chose to call the Pharisee, Religious Ron.。
Sorry if there's anyone here called Ron.。
On a given Sunday, Religious Ron walked into the church with his head held high and his chest out.。
As he walked into the sanctuary, Religious Ron spotted the town drug pusher,。
the town troublemaker, sitting on one of the back pews. You wish you hadn't sat on the back pew today,。
right? He had been tried. He'd been found guilty. He'd spent time in prison and was recently paroled.。
Religious Ron was disgusted to see such a man in church. So he told the head usher,。
to keep a close watch on the man, who we will call Larry Lowlife.。
Larry Lowlife had finally realized he needed to change the road on which he'd been traveling.。
He desperately needed God's help and he was in church.。
At the beginning of the pastoral prayer time, the pastor always gives at least 30 seconds。
for the congregation to quietly pray before he began his prayer. Religious Ron's silent prayer。
was more about his own goodness than about his spiritual need. Heavenly Father, I thank you that。
I've been a deacon of this church for more than 20 years. Oh, you've blessed my business so much,。
I'm able to give more than a tithe to the church. I haven't missed Sunday service for 10 years,。
even when I was sick. And you know that I used to sing in the choir. I don't smoke cigarettes,。
drink alcohol or cuss on Sundays. I don't use or sell drugs like the drug pushing punk on one of。
our back rooves, who has the audacity after getting out of prison to attend our church today.。
And Lord, please help our football team, that's soccer for US people,。
help our football team clobber the local Baptist church in the church football league on Tuesday。
night. Amen. Religious Ron was so full of pride, he could strut even when he was sitting down.。
Meanwhile, Larry Lowlife on one of the back rows was praying this,。
God be merciful to me, for I'm a sinner. I desperately need your help to get my life turned。
around so that I can go in the right direction. Lord, please forgive me and cleanse me.。
I open my life to you. Let me read verse 14 again. I tell you it was this man,。
rather than the other, who went home justified before God.。
For all those who exalt themselves will be humbled and those who humble themselves will be exalted.。
Hopefully this modern parable of religious Ron and Lowlife Larry will help us, you and me,。
to enter the worship services here at the Vine with a desire to primarily focus on three things.。
Firstly, the goodness and the greatness of God.。
Secondly, to genuinely worship him by focusing primarily upon your spiritual needs.。
And thirdly, to offer your life, to serve him in the ways that bear witness of his love to others。
in specific ways. In the original parable of the Pharisee and the tax collector, Jesus said,。
there are two attitudes that people generally display in worship. Number one,。
I'm proud of my goodness. Pride loves to use the personal pronouns I and me.。
It seldom omits a need. It does not focus on the needs of others.。
Or secondly, I desperately need God's mercy.。
I've got a question for you. Which of these two attitudes best describes。
your spirit as you enter church on a Sunday morning?。
Before I finish, I want to push this a stage further, if you don't mind.。
I want to get really personal. I want to give you a question.。
If you were to die tonight and stand before the Holy God,。
on what basis would you seek entrance into heaven?。
Think about it. I'm going to say it again. If you were to die tonight and stand before the Holy God,。
on what basis would you seek entrance into heaven?。
I mentioned earlier the parable of the persistent widow or the unjust judge that preceded this。
parable. It ends with the question, however, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith。
on the earth? Since now we're getting very serious. We're talking about our eternal destinies.。
I cannot think of anything more important for us to hear the truth of Jesus' message in this parable.。
You see, if we were to go out from here today and ask people in Yoho Mall, even those who are。
regular churchgoers, are you sure of your eternal destiny, that you'll go to heaven when you die?。
I guarantee that the prevalent answer would be, no, I'm not sure.。
If we probe a little bit further and ask them why they were not sure,。
we'd probably hear things like, I'm not sure I'm good enough.。
Reinforcing a widely held belief that somehow, somehow our good deeds will be measured up against。
our bad ones on some kind of spiritual scorecard. Salvation by KPI, as you might say.。
That we somehow need to earn our way into heaven by being good.。
Even though we know we are just not able to achieve this.。
The ultimate difficulty that any human being will encounter is this. How can any unjust person。
in the presence of a just God stand at the Last Judgment?。
The only way, the only way we can stand is to be justified,。
to be declared just. And when we say that justification is by faith alone,。
that is simple shorthand for justification by Jesus Christ alone.。
Faith is the sole instrument by which we can grab hold of Christ and His justice is transferred to。
us. God imputes or counts the righteousness of Jesus to those who put their trust in Him.。
But I tell you today,。
if you trust in yourself,。
you stand by yourself. The only way you will ever stand before a just and holy God。
is as one clothed in the righteousness of Christ. You add nothing to it.。
Jesus ended this little parable by saying, I tell you that this man, the tax collector,。
went home justified before God. The man couldn't even look up to heaven.。
He couldn't get near to the holy of holies, could only beat his chest and repent in sin,。
plead for the mercy of God and throw himself at the mercy of the court.。
He walked out the door and went home justified.。
My friends, do not leave here today until you tell the Lord God Almighty that you are a sinner。
and cannot stand apart from His mercy and grace.。
If you throw yourself and your soul to Him and His mercy, clinging to Christ, you will go home。
justified. Jesus said of the spiritual man, the Pharisee, the one who came so close,。
so close to the holy place, the tax collector went home justified rather than the other.。
The Pharisee went home that day and he continued to tithe and he continued to fast,。
but he remained an unjustified person.。
If you were to die tonight and stand before God and God said to you,。
"Why should I let you into my heaven?" What would you say?。
I hope you would say, "Because of Jesus, because He's my only hope,。
I put my trust in Him. Everything else is sinking sand."。
Then He will look at you. He'll say, "Please come in. My son is already here.。
He's prepared a place for you that you might bask in His glory now and forevermore."。
Let's close our eyes and ask the worship band to come back.。
We're going to be singing that song, "Come to the altar again."。
I joked about it before I preached the sermon. I think the song had already done my sermon for me.。
It's a male song. I want you to use that song。
to come back to the altar on your knees before Jesus where the place is forgiveness.。
