When I was a graduate from university,。
I wanted to establish myself, I wanted to be successful,。
I was hoping to make a lot of money,。
and I wanted to make myself attractive through a good career.。
Now, nobody put that pressure on me,。
but I put that on myself, I wanted to prove myself.。
And so I got a job in a management training program。
for one of the biggest paint companies in the world,。
Sherwin-Williams, and I started working for them.。
And I have to be honest, as I was learning about paint。
and paint product knowledge and paint-related products,。
it actually wasn't that exciting.。
And I realized it didn't interest me that much.。
But here I was, you know, starting off,。
trying to establish myself, and so I kept going.。
I got a promotion, thank God, you know, for that.。
So I guess I was doing an okay job.。
But I really didn't feel like I was the right fit,。
so I ended up resigning from my role.。
And so as I did that, I'm looking to my left,。
I'm looking to my right at my friends and what they're doing,。
and one of my friends started a successful business.。
He started it while he was in university,。
and then it just grew,。
and he was hiring his whole family already.。
It's, like, one year out of college.。
You know, it was amazing what was happening.。
I had friends working for Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard。
and Johnson & Johnson, all these, like, famous companies,。
and then there was me.。
And I was trying to figure out what to do,。
and I felt like I'm behind.。
I just want to somehow catch up with everyone else。
that seems to be doing so well.。
But I couldn't really do it.。
I didn't really know what to do to get to where I thought。
and felt that I needed to be.。
And I was striving, I was trying,。
and I was experiencing a lot of restlessness and anxiousness。
because I just couldn't quite get there, and I felt stuck.。
And I believe we all, at one point or another,。
we've experienced this, where we're striving,。
we're trying to make something happen.。
You know, we're trying to get somewhere,。
but we're just at a point of exhaustion,。
where we're weary because what we're aiming for,。
we cannot fully grab a hold of.。
We're just not able to get there.。
For me, it was proving myself through my career.。
I was trying to prove my worth, that I'm worthy.。
So I worked really hard,。
but I wasn't able to get to where I needed to be.。
You know, for others, maybe it's trying to fix a relationship.。
Like, you have this relationship,。
maybe it's with your parent, maybe it's with a spouse,。
and then you just want to have this good relationship,。
and you're trying so hard and everything,。
but it's just not working.。
You can't control everything that happens.。
And it's just not playing out, and it's exhausting.。
Or maybe you're trying to find someone to be with,。
to have security with, "Man, if I only have this person,。
"if only this person will be my life,。
"if only I have this friendship,。
"then I'm going to have security.。
"Then I'm going to feel good."。
Or maybe you're a parent,。
and you're trying to be the perfect parent.。
I think you learn really fast that that's not going to happen.。
But still, nonetheless, you feel the pressure。
to be this perfect parent, so you're trying.。
You're trying to get your child into the best kindergarten,。
which in Hong Kong is a big deal, let me tell you.。
You're trying for them to behave amazingly in public。
and be sweet at home.。
You want to set them up for success.。
But regarding of all that you try,。
you're still not able to have this perfect setup.。
You're still not doing always what you think they should do.。
And you're just exhausted.。
And what that leads to is,。
we're just never able to settle in this rest.。
I should stay away from that side.。
I'm never able to settle in that rest.。
And rest is something that's a hard place,。
something hard to come by.。
And so what I want to do with you today in this message,。
I want to explore with you a question。
and have an honest conversation around it.。
And it's this question, where do we find true rest。
when we are anxious and when we're burdened?。
You know, what do we do?。
So today we're in the final sermon of our sermon series,。
"Follow Me," where we've been going through。
the Gospel of Matthew and looking at what it means。
to be a follower, a believer in Jesus.。
And I hope this has been a helpful journey for you。
as we've been going through that.。
And today we're going to be looking at some words of Jesus,。
some of the most famous words of Jesus.。
Where he speaks over our anxious,。
our burdened, our weary lives, he speaks some words。
that I believe that many of us, including myself,。
here need to hear today.。
Like a lot of times when you prepare a message,。
you're like preaching also to yourself.。
And so let me take you to these words.。
It's in Matthew 11, starting in verse 28, and it says this.。
So this is Jesus speaking.。
He says, "Come to me, all you are weary and burdened,。
and I will give you rest.。
Take my yoke upon you and learn from me.。
For I am gentle and humble at heart,。
and you will find rest for your souls.。
For my yoke is easy and my burden is light."。
I feel already a little bit more relaxed。
after reading these verses, right?。
So what I want to do with you here in this message。
is two things.。
First, I want to look at what Jesus says we already have,。
'cause there's two things that he says we already have.。
And then I want to look with you at two things。
that Jesus wants to give us.。
So that's what we're going to do.。
Let's look at what Jesus says we have.。
The first thing that we have is weariness.。
Now, the Greek word here, kapiau,。
I feel like it sounds a little bit like meow, kapiau.。
Meow.。
Can mean become weary, tired, to exert oneself physically,。
mentally, or spiritually, work hard, toil, strive, struggle.。
I'm already tired again after reading that list.。
But what Jesus has in mind here is maybe a little bit different。
than what some of us are thinking.。
A lot of times when we think of rest,。
we're thinking of, I had a hard week's work,。
and I need to go take a nap now on Saturday or on Sunday.。
And we do need physical rest, and that's very important.。
And that is also related to this topic and everything.。
But what Jesus, the weariness that Jesus is talking about。
is a weariness, a tiredness of soul.。
It's a spiritual weariness.。
It's like something that's like deeper,。
a deeper exhaustion on a deeper level.。
And so for the contemporaries that Jesus was speaking these words to,。
for them, it was a religious striving.。
Because in the context in Israel, the religious leaders,。
the authorities, they had placed so much burdens on the people.。
There was 613 laws that they needed to keep,。
and those were just protective laws to not break the other laws.。
And they were just being crushed and exhausted。
by trying to have right relationship with God individually,。
but also as a nation of Israel.。
Jesus even criticizes the religious leaders in Matthew chapter 23.。
He talks about them placing a burden on people。
that even they themselves are not willing to carry or can't even carry.。
And so they're exhausted by the striving。
to be in this right relationship with God.。
Now, I'm sure there was other type of striving at that time as well,。
besides religious striving.。
But for us today, weariness comes in many different shapes and forms.。
So for me, as I shared earlier,。
it was like I was trying to prove myself, my worth, my lovability.。
I don't even know if that's a word.。
And so I was striving, I was trying so hard.。
For others, maybe you're striving for approval.。
You just want to be liked.。
And so you bend yourself out of shape that others approve of you,。
that they love you.。
But you're never truly who you really are.。
So that's also kind of tiring, right?。
When you always bend yourself out of shape。
and you're never true to who you really are.。
We spend money we don't have to be someone.。
We bend ourselves out of shape to please other people.。
We overwork ourselves and exhaust ourselves to prove we matter.。
But if we take a step back from all the striving。
and all these things that we do,。
you can kind of think of the things that you do.。
It's interesting because you never fully arrive.。
You never quite cross that finish line.。
It's like even if you accomplish one of those things,。
you set out, maybe you get that relationship.。
Well, it feels great at the beginning,。
but, you know, it never fully delivers.。
And then the goal just moves.。
Oh, now I need to get here in order to feel whole,。
to be at peace, to have rest.。
And so there's so much striving and trying to accomplish。
and trying to make happen, but we just can't do it.。
And it always leaves us hanging dry.。
So the first thing that Jesus is saying。
when he says that we are weary,。
is that we have a weariness that we can't remedy。
out of our own strength and through all our striving.。
Like you can't do it.。
You can try, but you're not going to be successful。
because the goalpost always moves.。
And it's exhausting.。
So Jesus says that's one thing that we're carrying,。
that some of us here today are carrying.。
But the second thing that Jesus says we have is a burden.。
We're burdened.。
Now, burden in this context here of these verses,。
it means we were carrying a yoke.。
And so I'm very proud, and I want Chapman to be proud of me。
because I generated this with AI.。
This is my first AI generation.。
It took like 20 seconds, you know.。
A lot of hard work, but not really.。
But you see here a yoke.。
You know, it's a piece of wood or a piece of metal。
that's over two oxen.。
I'm going to move this so you can see this over there.。
And it brings two animals together to pull something,。
like a plow or a car, to do work.。
And Jesus is saying we're all yoked to something.。
We're all carrying something.。
We're all pulling something.。
There is no such thing as a yoke-less or a yoke-free life.。
It doesn't exist.。
Now, yoke in that time didn't just mean a tool for farming。
or for work, but it was also a metaphor,。
a way of speaking, of being a subject to someone.。
So this could be positive, being a subject to God.。
I'm yoked to God.。
But it could also be negative.。
I'm a subject to someone like the Roman emperor or something,。
where we're subjects to them and we're yoked by them.。
And so Jesus is saying that we're all yoked to something,。
that there's a weight that we're carrying,。
a thing that we're looking for to make us whole,。
to make us feel well, to make us feel fulfilled.。
Maybe it's a striving to be successful and have money.。
I think, man, if I reach this goal,。
then I'm going to feel good.。
So you're yoked to your career.。
And you're striving and you're working endlessly,。
and it's just crushing you.。
And you never fully arrive.。
We can be yoked to approval of people.。
That can be a yoke that we're carrying,。
where we just want to be liked。
and we're just trying to please everyone.。
But even when you try that, it's never going to happen.。
You're not always going to please everyone.。
And even if you do, like I said earlier,。
you bend yourself out of shape,。
you're actually not even who you are.。
You're just trying to read what they want and do that.。
And that's exhausting.。
And so there's all these different ways that we're yoked,。
where we're trying to look at this thing in our lives。
that we think will make us happy.。
This relationship is going to make me happy.。
So we yoke ourselves that relationship.。
Now, I have to say, these things themselves are not bad.。
Having a career is not bad.。
It's a good thing.。
Having a relationship is not bad.。
It's a good thing.。
But when you look to that thing to give you, like,。
ultimate purpose, meaning, wholeness, fulfillment,。
then it becomes a bad thing.。
Then it becomes a crushing weight。
that can never accomplish what you are looking forward to it,。
you know, for you to accomplish in your life.。
And it just wears you out.。
And Jesus is saying that we all are carrying a yoke。
and we're looking to other things, to the people,。
to success, to career, to give us something。
that only God can give us.。
A wholeness that only God can give,。
but we're trying to find it in other things.。
So he's saying you are weary and without rest。
because you're looking to the wrong place.。
You're yoking yourself to the wrong things and it's exhausting.。
It's making you tired.。
But then let's look at...。
So that's the second thing that we have that Jesus names,。
but he wants to give us something else instead.。
So let's look at the things that Jesus wants to give us instead.。
So Jesus, in the same verse, in verse 28,。
he says, "Come to me and I will give you rest."。
So it's an invitation to come to him.。
So rest is found in the person of Jesus.。
Rest is found in relationship with Jesus.。
So we've been trying to make things happen.。
He says, "Just come to me.。
"I'm going to give you rest.。
"I'm going to bestow that on you.。
"I'm going to give..."。
And just if you think about this,。
if I were to tell you, "Come to me and I'm going to give you rest,"。
you're like, "What are you talking about?。
"Who are you to say that?"。
But Jesus actually has the authority and the power。
and the ability to say that because he's the Son of God.。
He actually can give you rest, which is amazing.。
Now, to understand this whole Jesus giving us rest,。
I think it's important for us to actually take a step back.。
So in the Bible, rest can also mean salvation,。
where God brings wholeness, restoration, healing.。
And so what is he healing us from?。
What is he restoring us from?。
So it's important to actually go back。
to the beginning of God's Word in the book of Genesis,。
where it talks about God creating the world.。
And there's four relational contexts that he creates.。
It's us and God.。
It's us and others.。
It's us and ourselves.。
Can we please pull that up?。
And it's us and creation.。
So these are four relational contexts。
that God created to flourish and to thrive.。
But then in Genesis 3, when sin entered the world,。
these relationships were ruptured.。
There was a breakdown between Adam and Eve and God.。
They were expelled from the garden,。
from his direct presence.。
There was a breakdown in the relationship。
between Adam and Eve once they rebelled against God.。
When God asked what happened, Adam blamed Eve.。
She's like, "She made me eat it."。
So pain enters into the relationship between each other.。
There's a breakdown.。
Then there was a breakdown in the relationship to themselves.。
They felt shame and they hid.。
And we experience these things as well.。
We can experience shame and disliking ourselves。
and being angry with ourselves.。
And then there was also a breakdown。
between us and creation.。
So for Adam and Eve, this had to do also。
with their work and their toil.。
Now instead of this cultural mandate。
that God had given in Genesis。
being carried out easily,。
now a lot of work that we do is frustrated.。
So sin ruptures all these four。
crucial, essential relationships.。
And we still know the brokenness。
of these four areas in our lives today, don't we?。
A lot of times we can sense our brokenness。
in our relationship with God.。
We definitely know brokenness in relationship with others.。
And even if you have the most amazing relationships,。
you're like so blessed,。
you're like that top 1%,。
you still know pain in relationship, right?。
Where words were spoken,。
something was said, something was done,。
and you just feel the pain and just the devastation。
and it just doesn't feel good.。
You know there's brokenness.。
So we know brokenness in all these four areas.。
So Jesus, when he talks about giving,。
come to me and I will give you rest,。
he's talking about come to me。
and I'm going to start restoring, renewing, healing。
all these four areas in your life,。
these things that sin has ruptured and has impacted.。
I'm going to start bringing wholeness and healing into those.。
So God did not leave us in this brokenness.。
In the biblical story you can think of it as a meta-narrative。
or the grand narrative of the Bible.。
If you were to summarize the Bible in like a storyline,。
there is creation, that's act one.。
Then there's the fall, that's act two of the story。
where sin enters the world and ruptures things.。
Then act three is redemption。
where God blesses Abraham to be a blessing to the nations,。
chooses Israel to be a light to the nations.。
Jesus comes, the church and all of that is part of God's redemption,。
God's healing work.。
And then there's new creation, act four,。
where God's healing, restoring, renewing work is completed。
because God does not give up on his people。
and he wants to restore us, bring healing to us and renew us.。
Now, so Jesus is offering us rest and salvation.。
That's really what Jesus is extending to us.。
But how do we typically respond to that?。
Well, C.S. Lewis, one of the greatest thinkers and authors。
and writers, Christian writers in the 20th century,。
he said there's three ways that we respond to this longing。
and to this striving in our lives.。
The first one is what he calls the fool's way.。
That's where we blame the specific thing we chased。
as not, you know, I thought this career here is going to make me happy,。
but you know what, I actually was wrong.。
That was the wrong thing.。
Actually, what I really need is this other career.。
Then I'm going to feel whole.。
I thought this relationship was going to fix me, heal me,。
but actually I think it's going to be this other relationship。
that's going to fix and heal me.。
So we blame the thing.。
That's the fool's way where we keep moving the goalposts to the goal。
and keep chasing after things, trying to look for them to make us whole.。
The second way that Lewis says we respond to this longing。
is with cynicism, that we say there is no fulfillment.。
Like, why are you chasing it?。
Why do you think there is such a thing as wholeness?。
Yeah, you feel a desire and that longing in your heart。
and you're striving, but there is no such thing.。
And it might seem like this is an adult way of thinking about it,。
but actually it leaves us quite empty-handed and quite hopeless.。
And then there is the Christian way.。
And so Lewis, he says that what if our longing and our striving。
and this desire that we have such a hard time for it being met,。
what if that actually points us towards someone?。
That there is actually somebody who can fulfill that.。
So let me read to you a quote that I have here.。
It's a little bit long, but I'll read it.。
"Creatures are not born with desires unless satisfaction for those desires exists.。
A baby feels hunger, well, there is such a thing as food.。
A duckling wants to swim, well, there is such a thing as water.。
If I find myself a desire with no experience in the world can satisfy,。
the most probable explanation is that I was made for another world.。
If none of my earthly pleasures satisfy it,。
that does not prove that the universe is a fraud.。
Probably earthly pleasures were never meant to satisfy it,。
but only to arouse and suggest the real thing."。
So Lewis is saying that our striving, our trying so hard,。
our exhausting and weariness, that actually points us towards the real thing.。
And it actually makes sense out of our data, out of our experiences that we have,。
that there must be something or someone else。
who can actually fulfill this longing in our hearts.。
And of course we believe that what this thing points towards is God.。
St. Augustine, he famously said, "Our hearts are rested until we rest in thee."。
And then Jesus, of course, he says in that passage,。
"Come to me and I will give you rest."。
So he's saying that he's the one who gives that rest that we cannot get anywhere else.。
And that these longings and our frustrations and our brokenness,。
where we desire for wholeness, that they point us towards him.。
So how do we receive that?。
How do we respond to that?。
Well, it's through surrender.。
When we surrender to Jesus, when we come to him,。
just empty hand and say, "Jesus, I got nothing, but I need you."。
When I was 15 years old, I actually started when I was 14.。
I had a lot of anxiety, a lot of fear.。
I couldn't sleep at night.。
And I tried so hard out of my own strength to be right and to be whole.。
I tried everything that I knew how to do.。
But I couldn't do it.。
I couldn't do it.。
And actually what was going on, I know that I was experiencing spiritual oppression.。
Now what do I mean by spiritual oppression?。
Well, at nighttime and then later on at night and during the day,。
I saw demonic faces.。
And it scared me.。
And I didn't know what to do with it.。
I didn't want to tell my friends because I didn't want my friends to think I'm crazy.。
I talked to my parents, but they didn't really know what to do with that。
because they never had that experience.。
And so I was just on my own trying to battle whatever this thing was that was going on.。
But I was just so exhausted.。
And I remember after a year of that getting to a point where I told myself,。
"If life is like this, then I don't know if I want to live."。
I was just--I had nothing.。
I couldn't solve it.。
I couldn't do it.。
And so out of desperation, I went and I talked to my father.。
And he asked me, "Have you ever come to Jesus?"。
And so that night on my own, I don't even remember exactly what I said.。
I just came to Jesus and I just said, "Jesus, I need you because I got nothing."。
And so Jesus came into my life.。
And you know what was amazing?。
That that night, the demonic faces disappeared and I didn't see them again.。
And it showed me that Jesus has the authority and the power to give you rest.。
Now we might not always understand how in the world this is possible,。
but he has the authority and the power to give you rest when you come to him,。
when you are weary, when you're exhausted, when you're trying so hard.。
He has the power to finally bring you to a place of rest and wholeness,。
and especially rest in relationship with him.。
Rest because a relationship between us and him is restored.。
And so that was my experience.。
And this offer that Jesus extends, "Come to me and I will give you rest,"。
it still stands today.。
He is offering this to everyone here, but we have to receive it.。
We have to say, "Jesus, I need you."。
Actually, interestingly, he doesn't say a lot, he just says, "Come."。
You just got to come.。
Coming is an act of faith just by turning to Jesus.。
So that's the first thing that Jesus offers us.。
It's rest in salvation.。
It's rest through a restored relationship with God.。
But there's a second thing that I want to touch on as well。
that Jesus also offers here.。
If you've been a Christian for a while, you're like,。
"Hey, Tim, I'm still weary and exhausted."。
If we're honest, I said earlier we're going to have an honest conversation, right?。
You're like, "Okay, so what do we do with that? Why is that?。
Why are we, even if you're a Christian, why is there still weariness and exhaustion?"。
Well, verse 29 and verse 30, I believe, give us a clue.。
And he says this, Jesus says this,。
"Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart,。
and you will find rest for your souls.。
For my yoke is easy and my burden is light."。
The reason why we're still weary and exhausted is because a lot of times,。
even as Christians, we actually don't want to do life with Jesus.。
We don't want to really live in submission to him, under his leadership.。
We don't want to do what his word says, and we don't want to be yoked to him。
because he invites us to actually take up his yoke and learn from him.。
But we don't want to learn from him, so we set it aside and we put on a different yoke.。
Because remember, earlier I said there is no such thing as a yoke-free life.。
Everyone carries a yoke, and either it's a yoke of Christ or it's a yoke of the world。
that will wear you out and will leave you exhausted as you're chasing things,。
looking for things to provide for you that cannot deliver.。
And we all still do it.。
We're all still in the learning process.。
But what I find interesting here is that Jesus says that he invites us to take up the yoke.。
So that means we can take it up, but we can also set it aside.。
He doesn't force it on us.。
And that we can learn from him, and as we do life with him,。
as we learn to walk with him in tandem, as we are yoked to him,。
we learn to live by his grace, by his wisdom, by his strength.。
Yes, there's still a burden, but the burden is light.。
Whatever God invites us in, that there is a lightness when we do it together with him,。
when we live out of the place of relationship with him, out of the place of surrender to him.。
But we're not always in that place, are we?。
I know I'm not always in that place.。
But what also really ministers to my heart in this passage is that he talks about it.。
Jesus says that he's gentle and humble.。
He's not a harsh master that crushes you with expectations that you can't meet.。
But he just invites you with this gentleness and humbleness on how to live life in tandem with him.。
And so Jesus, he gives us rest through discipleship.。
He gives us rest through being yoked to him,。
rest through learning to work in tandem with him versus doing life on our own.。
So as we yoke ourselves to him, partner with him, and work alongside him,。
we slowly, through the work of the Holy Spirit,。
mature as a people that God has created us to be.。
And we can more fully live out whom he's made us to be,。
and there's peace and there's rest in that when we do that.。
So paradoxically, biblical rest is not taking a break from work,。
but working and doing life with Jesus.。
Jesus is offering us rest in discipleship.。
So I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
So we saw that what we have, what we're carrying is weariness, and we're carrying a burden.。
And what Jesus wants to give us is he says, "Come to me, and I will give you rest."。
And he also says, "Take my yoke upon you and learn from me."。
And he also talks about giving us rest for our souls.。
So it's what Jesus wants to give us.。
And if you're today anxious, if you're weary, if you're worn out,。
this invitation here stands for you today.。
First, I want to talk about the invitation from the yoke.。
Maybe you've been a Christian for a while, but you're just tired and exhausted.。
So Jesus is inviting you again to do life together with him, in relationship with him,。
in tandem with him, and learning.。
It's something we have to learn. It's not something we easily do.。
That's why he talks about, "Learn from me."。
And so maybe for you today, it's saying, "Jesus, I'm so sorry for taking the yoke off and chasing other stuff,。
but I just want to learn to do life in tandem with you.。
I just want to do life with you on my side."。
And then one of the incredible things is that Jesus has all authority, power, wisdom.。
And so if you're doing life with him on your side,。
you're doing life with the one who has all authority, power, and wisdom,。
who can bring about whatever needs to be brought about in your life,。
who can give you the grace and strength that you need to go through whatever it is that you're going through.。
And so Jesus is inviting you to take his yoke upon you.。
So if that's you, I just want to, right now, just create a little bit of space and invite you,。
just in prayer, just tell Jesus, "Jesus, I'm sorry for putting on these other yokes。
and looking for them to deliver in my life what they can't deliver.。
I'm coming back to you.。
I want to learn from you.。
I want to do life together with you."。
So you can just tell him quietly in your place.。
And just ask Jesus to give you the rest that comes from being in relationship with him。
and actually living in that relationship.。
So renew you through his Holy Spirit.。
Fill you with his Holy Spirit.。
Strengthen you.。
Refresh you.。
Give you rest.。
Lift off that weariness off your shoulders, that tiredness.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
But then there's the second invitation.。
And that's for those of us who've never have come to Jesus, who've never have surrendered to Jesus.。
And maybe you also have gotten to a point in your life where you're just like,。
"Man, I've tried everything.。
I'm just tired.。
I'm exhausted.。
I don't know what else to do."。
And so Jesus is inviting you to come.。
Come to him.。
This invitation is for you today.。
But this invitation needs to be RSVP too.。
Just like when somebody invites you to a party in the Unigala RSVP to actually receive this invitation.。
And so the same is true when he says, "Come."。
We actually have to come to him.。
And so if you've never actually have come to him and received the rest of salvation,。
that only Jesus has the power and the authority to give,。
I want to invite you to come to him.。
And the way we do that is the way we RSVP is through prayer.。
So I have a prayer that is up here that I'm going to pray.。
And you can quietly pray along.。
Make it your own.。
It can be your coming to Jesus moment.。
So let's do that.。
I'm going to slowly pray that you can make it your own.。
I'm always going to leave some time in between so you can pray it.。
Lord Jesus Christ, I'm sorry for the things that I've done wrong in my life.。
Right now, you can actually take a moment and just ask for forgiveness for anything that's weighing on your heart that comes to mind.。
Just tell Jesus that you're sorry for those things.。
Please forgive me.。
I now turn from everything which I know is wrong.。
Thank you that you died on the cross for me so that I could be forgiven and set free.。
Thank you that you offer me forgiveness and a gift of your Holy Spirit.。
I now receive that gift.。
Please come into my life by your Holy Spirit to be with me forever.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Now, if you made this prayer your own, if you've come to Jesus, God's word says that you are a Christian.。
That there has been a shift.。
There has been a transformation.。
There has been a change.。
You are born again.。
You are a new creation.。
A new life has begun.。
Now, sometimes we might have strong feelings of relief.。
Sometimes we don't have any particular feeling.。
But if you've taken that step, this is what has happened.。
And I want to encourage you to actually share that with someone.。
And then as I've also talked about today that Jesus offers us this yoke, to take his yoke upon us.。
I would love to also talk with you, you know, how can I learn to follow Jesus more fully?。
And that we as a church community can support you.。
If you've taken that step, we would love to talk with you.。
But right now, I want to invite you to stand.。
And I'm going to pray over all of us.。
And then we're going to continue with worship.。
Jesus, I thank you so much that you are the one to whom we can come to.。
Who takes our weariness, our burdens, who takes them away from us and lifts them off of our shoulders.。
And you are the one who truly gives us rest.。
And so we thank you.。
We receive your rest right now by the work of your Holy Spirit.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
And all God's people said, "Amen."。
Let's worship church.。
