Once in a year, I don't have to think about what to wear.。
It's assigned for me by my mommy。
'cause she arranged the outfit.。
That's great.。
How are you all doing?。
Okay, half of you feel okay.。
Half of you are good.。
You all right?。
Doing okay?。
Yeah, much better.。
So you know last week we wrapped up。
the Forward Together series.。
We talked a lot about unity,。
how we can join together as one church,。
multicultural, multigenerational.。
We walk together.。
And in fact, we cover a lot in this past year.。
We started a year by talking about prayer,。
how we can relate to God during our time of fasting.。
And we joined one time and we fast together.。
And then we talked about this person called Joseph.。
Anybody was here when we talk about Joseph?。
We talked about all his ups and downs。
and how he followed God no matter what.。
How he was also a man of discipline.。
When temptation came,。
he actually stood firm in his temptation.。
And then we had a chance in midst of our Joseph series,。
Pastor Tim and Pastor Ivan brought the vision。
of the church in 2025 to us,。
which is to reach out to the younger generation.。
That's why we started talking about this idea,。
what if we could become a multicultural。
and multigenerational church family here in Yuen Long.。
But then we know in order to reach the next generation,。
there's so much that we need to do。
and so much we need to draw from God's resources,。
especially when it comes to what we're seeing。
in the next generation right now.。
We see a lot of depression.。
We see a lot of people that are giving up on their lives.。
They are taking their own lives.。
We need the resurrection power of Jesus。
to be in a city, to be in a community.。
And we dedicated some time to that.。
And so finally, in the last couple of weeks,。
we were talking about how we can join hands together。
and move forward together as one church family.。
Are you following?。
And so when I was just praying and just waiting on God。
on what to talk about, what more can I add to that?。
I just, oh, by the way, I just wanna tell you。
that we're not starting any new sermon series today.。
We, once in a while in our church,。
we normally have some one-off messages.。
And today this is one of those messages.。
And I've been just praying and asking,。
okay, God, what's on your heart?。
What do you wanna speak to us?。
And I felt God has put something on my heart today.。
And in fact, I think he has put that on my heart。
for some 20 years.。
And so it's been a message that has been brewing in my heart.。
I always felt it.。
And honestly, this week I'm trying to find words for it.。
And I just feel like all my words fall short.。
So that was a great song.。
It was just in, yeah, all my words fall short.。
But I do pray that as, you know,。
during this time when we're here,。
I pray that the Holy Spirit will come。
and tell us what he wants to tell us.。
And again, amen for that.。
I'm gonna begin with an event。
that happened almost 20 years ago.。
So maybe a little bit less than 20 years ago,。
I was in a camp.。
Yeah, if you've been hearing my stories,。
I went to a lot of camps when I was young, do that a lot.。
But this one was slightly different.。
I was not supposed to be there.。
It was actually a pastor's retreat.。
And apparently almost 20 years ago, I wasn't a pastor yet.。
I was just a teenager or late teens, something like that.。
But I remember I joined this camp。
because if you've heard my story before,。
I left school that summer.。
Like, I mean, I dropped out of school that summer.。
So I got nothing to do.。
And my pastor, he was kind enough to bring me along.。
So I said, yeah, sure, why not?。
Go to this pastor's retreat camp.。
Of course, most of what happened there,。
I have already forgotten,。
but I remember one particular message。
by one particular speaker or pastor.。
And he said something like this that really stuck with me。
for the next 20 years.。
He said, there are a few kinds of people in church,。
from his observation of being a pastor for that long.。
He said, there are some people,。
they are there or they are here。
because they want to be blessed by God.。
So in my understanding, I guess that would mean people,。
they come and have a relationship with God。
because they want his blessings.。
They needed something from God in their lives.。
So they come join the church.。
They would come and worship.。
They come and read the Bible.。
They come and do all this Christian stuff。
in order to win the favor of God,。
in order that God would bless them.。
If I behave, if I do good enough,。
and I'll be in God's good list.。
So I'll have his favor in my life.。
And so we see that some people,。
they may show up or they may start having this journey。
of faith because they needed or they wanted。
the favor of God or the blessings of God.。
And yet the pastor went on,。
he said there are yet another group of people,。
they want to be used by God.。
They dedicate themselves to ministry.。
They dedicate themselves to serving in church.。
They will be there week in, week out.。
And some of them, they even, they would become,。
they would go full time.。
They would spend all the time in church.。
Well, like myself, spending a lot of time in the church,。
like serving.。
And don't get me wrong, it's wonderful.。
It's amazing, especially when you start to see in serving。
that God has given you particular gifts and talent,。
that you can use those talents for his kingdom,。
for his work.。
And you said, wow, this is how God can use me.。
He prepared me.。
That's amazing.。
It's an amazing experience, isn't it?。
If you have been in ministry before,。
maybe you've been to missions,。
if maybe you've been serving in church。
and you saw how what you did,。
how it has made a difference for people,。
how it has made a difference for those around you,。
and you will feel glad about it.。
And that's great.。
Then that this pastor just went on, he said,。
but yet there are still another type of people in church.。
These are the people that all they want。
is to walk with God every day.。
All they want is to be his friends.。
All they want, it's like probably what King David。
in the Bible did.。
We know that King David, he himself was no perfect man.。
He made a lot of mistakes.。
He did some bad stuff.。
Things that even he was not really proud of.。
But then when God talked about David in the Bible,。
he used a very specific phrase.。
God says, this is the man after my own heart.。
That he would all day long, he would search for God's heart.。
Like he will ask God this question,。
God, what's on your mind today?。
Like God, what's on your heart?。
How can I fulfill that?。
How can I walk according to your heart?。
How can I do what you want in this kingdom。
that you have entrusted me?。
How can I follow you in my everyday life?。
And not just to follow you,。
not just to check all the checklist,。
but how can I really bless your heart, God?。
We saw that David, the guy like this,。
a man after God's own heart.。
I remember walking away from that camp.。
Something inside of me felt different.。
I would say my priorities started changing.。
I would say my prayers started changing.。
I start to pray different things.。
And then I realized that's because my perspective has changed.。
My paradigm has changed.。
And even my purpose in life has changed.。
Like for me, I wasn't just trying to be someone。
who served God, but I do that.。
I send the Holy Spirit, put that longing inside of me。
that I also wanna be one of those who walk with God,。
who journey with him.。
I also wanna be his friend.。
And this paradigm shift I experienced that day,。
some 20, almost 20 years ago,。
perhaps it was one of the most important things。
Jesus wanted to communicate with his disciples.。
One of the heart changes that he really wanted to see。
before he went to the cross.。
Why do I say that?。
Let's come back to John.。
He spent five chapters talking about the evening。
before Jesus went to the cross.。
We look at the Bible, John chapter 13 to 17.。
Normally scholars would call these five chapters。
or these passage, they call it the farewell discourse.。
That's when Jesus share words with his disciples。
or he has done something before he finally left。
and went to the cross.。
But if we look at these passage, these five chapters,。
we know that there's something special about it。
or actually John employed a very popular literary structure。
in those days in Hebrew literature。
to write these five chapters.。
He actually used a very special method。
called the chiastic symmetry structure.。
Let me say that again.。
It's a chiastic symmetry structure.。
Meaning, what does that mean?。
It means that simply put, it's a writing technique。
that arranged different themes or different passages。
in an inverted parallel structure.。
So it all revolves around one central point.。
This technique is trying to ensure。
that this central emphasis where the midpoint,。
where this, oh, maybe we can have the next slide。
and you will start to see this.。
You can have the next slide, yes.。
You will see where there's a central point,。
there's a midpoint.。
This point always carries the weightiest theological truth。
or this is the core message that the author。
wants to communicate.。
And John uses this special method,。
the chiastic symmetry structure to write these five chapters。
to help readers focus on that one core message.。
And this is it.。
In the center, we see from chapter 13 to chapter 17,。
yes, we covered a lot of things.。
We covered how Jesus washed his disciples' feet。
and then tell them, hey, this is my new command.。
Love one another just as I love you.。
We knew that he talked about the Holy Spirit,。
how the Holy Spirit would come after he's gone.。
We know all that.。
And we actually, if we read on,。
we see some of the themes were actually repeated。
like in a symmetrical kind of structure.。
But there is one main point,。
one central point in the middle of it.。
That's the core message.。
If you ask John, hey, these five chapters,。
everything that Jesus talked about。
before he went to the cross,。
what do you want to tell us the most?。
John would probably say, this is the message,。
the first half of John chapter 15.。
That's the passage where we got the name of our church.。
It's even written in this building right now.。
I am the vine and you are the branches.。
This is the message.。
This is our identity, right?。
And this passage was one of the core message。
of the entire gospel of John.。
This is what he wanted to communicate with us.。
And so we see that, you know, Jesus said,。
he's the vine, we're the branches, remain in me.。
So I will remain in you as well.。
And you can go and bear fruit。
because when you're apart from me, you can't do much.。
That's the message.。
And if we read on, I'll start from verse nine.。
It says this, Jesus said this,。
said, as the father has loved me, so have I loved you.。
Now remain in my love.。
If you keep my commands, you will remain in my love.。
Just as I have kept my father's command。
and remain in his love.。
I have told you this so that my joy may be in you。
and that your joy may be complete.。
My command is this, love each other as I have loved you.。
Greater love has no one than this,。
to lay down one's life for one's friend.。
You are my friends if you do what I command.。
And then Jesus said this word in verse 15.。
He said, I no longer call you servants。
because a servant does not know his master's business.。
Instead, I have called you friends.。
For everything that I learned from my father,。
I have made known to you.。
You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you。
so that you might go and bear fruit, fruit that will last.。
And so that whatever you ask in my name,。
the father will give you.。
This is my command, love each other.。
Apparently Jesus is establishing his church here saying,。
hey, I am the vine and you are the branches.。
You have to remain in me.。
And when you do that, you will start to have a community。
where you would love each other.。
But then right before the end of this core message,。
John wrote down what Jesus told his disciples。
that I no longer call you servant.。
Now I call you my friends.。
This paradigm shift, this paradigm change,。
perhaps is one of the most important things。
that Jesus wanted to communicate to his disciples。
before he went to the cross.。
So John skillfully put this verses。
at the center of Jesus's farewell message.。
In other words, this is one of the most important things。
that he wanted to communicate even to us today.。
We know that Jesus gave the new commandment。
to love one another in chapter 13,。
right after he washed his disciples feet.。
And we know that, yeah, there's a prayer in chapter 17。
where he said, I and the father, we are one.。
So you have to become one as well.。
We know our whole unity sermon series was based on that,。
was based on Jesus's prayer,。
saying that because him and the father, they are one.。
So he's encouraging us, commanding us, we have to be one,。
just like him and the father, they are one as well.。
Of course, we know about,。
which the Holy Spirit was mentioned in chapters 14 or 16,。
but the heart of Jesus's final words to his disciples。
at the central point of this passage,。
it was this invitation for us to abide in him,。
to abide in Jesus, to abide in his love。
or to remain in his love,。
like branches abide or remain to the vine in the vine.。
The sign of us abiding or remaining in Jesus。
is actually first that Jesus,。
he would himself lay down his life for you and me,。
for all his people.。
Jesus is the one who first took action,。
dying for us on the cross, which soon after he said this,。
he actually went to the cross。
to reveal the death of his love for you and me.。
And then in return, we would also lay down our standards,。
we'll lay down what we want。
so that we could come to Jesus in obedience。
to follow his standards,。
to follow his commands in obedience.。
You see Jesus laying down his life for us。
to reveal his love to us。
so that when we respond to that kind of love,。
we come willingly to surrender ourselves,。
to obey his commands.。
If you've been to a wedding before,。
if you've heard of a wedding sermons,。
this is one of the very popular sermons。
that would be preached in a wedding,。
like in Ephesians five,。
like how the husband is supposed to be the head of the family。
like Christ is laid down,。
so the husband should lay down his life for his wife。
and the wife in return should submit to the husband.。
This is where the idea actually came from.。
Jesus first did it himself。
and he's inviting us,。
he took the first step by dying for us。
while we're still sinner.。
He's inviting us into that kind of love,。
into that kind of relationship.。
And not just that,。
he said, you know, from now on,。
I'm going to shift this paradigm of our relationship.。
Our relationship, it's no longer a master-servant hierarchy,。
but we will enter into a covenant friendship.。
In other words, we're no longer just executors of tasks.。
Like whatever God told us we have to do。
because we are servants, we got no choice.。
We're Christians.。
If you're a Christian, you must do this。
and you must not do that.。
Sometimes we grew up, I don't know about you,。
but I've been in cultures,。
I've been in traditions like that.。
Sometimes I just do it because I'm a Christian.。
People just tell me, hey, if you're a Christian,。
you have to do this.。
If you're a Christian, you should not say that,。
you should not do that.。
You should show up at what time, when, you know,。
it's our responsibilities.。
I'm not saying that is wrong,。
but I'm just saying that Jesus indeed,。
before He went to the cross,。
He tried to shift that paradigm.。
In our relationship with God, He said,。
you're no longer just executors of tasks,。
but you're confidence of God's heart.。
He shares His heart with you through me now.。
We're no longer duty-driven.。
We're love-compelled.。
We should be compelled by love in everything we do.。
We grew up in this part of the world, Asia,。
and I know we're quite good at being servants, honestly,。
'cause we are in one of the most performance-driven,。
duty-driven kind of culture.。
And as servants of God,。
we seek to do the work of His kingdom,。
we build churches, we preach the gospel,。
we witness Jesus, we transform lives with His love.。
These are all great things.。
And most of the time, there's nothing wrong about it.。
But I remember when I grew up, I started serving.。
It was one of the times when,。
in the lowest point of my life,。
I've shared a little bit with you all before,。
like when I dropped out of school like two times.。
That was about the time God brought me to places。
to serve in front of people on the stage。
and where I would receive recognition.。
So at those days, when I was younger,。
being on the stage doing church ministry。
is the only place in my life。
where I received some recognition,。
where I would have people。
like putting their hands together for me.。
And soon, I realized, it has kind of become my identity.。
So a lot of you know that I actually did translation。
in a lot of Christian's events.。
And so sometimes when they don't get me to translate,。
I would feel very insecure.。
What have I done wrong?。
Have I done wrong that they don't get me。
back to the station?。
Or maybe I've been leading worship in church。
and one day, I'm no longer there.。
And if I go to church and I'm not doing anything at church,。
just standing there, I would feel,。
what am I doing here?。
Why am I not doing anything?。
How come I'm not worship leading or service leading。
or I'm not speaking or I'm not leading a prayer?。
When ministry has become my identity,。
we sometimes long for recognition.。
It comes with what we do.。
If we're in a culture where what we do is who we are。
and we bring that kind of culture,。
we bring that kind of mentality into church。
and we're a very firm servant of God,。
that part is still good.。
When we serve, God always appreciate it.。
But if we put our identity,。
we anchor our identity on what we do,。
then perhaps we'll miss the point.。
Or maybe in our walk with Jesus,。
we only know that yes, he will come and bless us。
and I anchor my relationship with him。
on all those blessings on what he would do for me.。
What if one day, some of your prayers were not answered。
and you start to feel these kind of doubts towards God,。
like, is God asleep?。
Is he too busy?。
How come there is like, there should be two blue tapes,。
but I don't get any reply?。
And we'll start to doubt God's love for us。
if all our relationship with him。
is based on what we get from him,。
based on his blessings.。
I've been there in my life.。
I've been there like,。
I've been in times where I felt I've been praying so hard,。
I've been serving so hard,。
I've been doing everything so hard.。
Why are my prayers not answered?。
Why God didn't come and help me?。
Why he didn't heal me?。
Why he didn't just come and comfort me,。
help me with whatever I'm asking?。
I've been trying so hard already.。
But when I put my identity in what I do。
and not what really God calls me,。
he calls me to be his friend.。
If I see myself as a worker and come before him,。
hey, I work for you, I should receive my wages.。
You should do something for me in return.。
I'm missing the point.。
God is saying, you know what?。
I wanna invite you into a new kind of paradigm.。
I wanna invite you into a new kind of relationship with me.。
But funny enough,。
this is actually not a new kind of relationship.。
This is actually sort of like an old relationship,。
like an old one.。
When he created mankind,。
that's always what he wanted with us.。
Remember like earlier I mentioned,。
when I heard this message from that pastor。
a long time ago,。
I made some prayers in my lives。
and some things inside of me changed,。
but well, actually all the ups and downs。
didn't change immediately.。
I still went through all those ups and downs.。
I remember there was this particular time again,。
like around the time when I dropped out of school,。
there was one day I was on a bus.。
I was on this upper deck towards the end.。
During that time,。
I always sit at the end of the upper deck of the bus。
because every time when I'm alone on the bus,。
my tears would just run like down my cheek.。
I would just start crying。
'cause there's so much pain。
and there's so much things I'm struggling in my life。
that I cannot figure out.。
I remember there was this one particular time I told God,。
I said, "Hey, you know what?。
I think whatever I heard you said all those years ago。
that I thought you were calling me,。
I think either I made a mistake,。
either I heard the wrong voice or you picked the wrong guy.。
That person cannot be me.。
Look at me, I'm such a mess.。
I'm a loser.。
I cannot be that person you're calling。
to do the work of your kingdom.。
Look at God, I think I'm gonna give up right now.。
Think you got the wrong person.。
I'm walking away.。
If I look at myself,。
if all I wanted to be is a pastor or missionary,。
if all I wanted to be was just a servant of God,。
all I wanted to do is just to serve God。
and I see that as my success or failure,。
I probably would have walked away that day.。
But it was actually this message that I've heard.。
This is message that the Holy Spirit is gently inviting me.。
You know what, Chapman?。
Even if you fail as a servant,。
you will never fail as my friend.。
You're always my friend.。
I have laid out my life for you.。
I will always love you no matter what.。
You don't have to strive to be my servant.。
Come and be my friend.。
All I want is a friend.。
So in my tears, I say,。
okay, you've got a friend in me.。
Jesus wants a friend.。
He wants us to understand that, yes,。
it's amazing when we can work with him。
and do all those amazing things,。
using our gifts and talents or ministering to people,。
going on mission trips or serving in church.。
Those are all amazing things.。
But Jesus says, you know what, from today onwards,。
I don't call you servants.。
I call you friends.。
You are here to share a piece of my heart.。
Whatever I know from my father,。
I'm going to share with you.。
Servants, they don't know the master's business,。
but I'm here to share with you.。
I want you to know my heart.。
I want you to understand me a little bit better.。
And, you know, actually throughout John chapter 13 to 17,。
we keep seeing, or Jesus keeps repeating words like,。
the father has loved me, so I have loved you.。
Or things like, I am in my father。
and you are in me.。
You know, when Jesus talks about his relationship with us,。
he always referred back to his relationship with his father.。
In other words, Jesus has been inviting us。
into the kind of relationship with him。
like the one he had with his father.。
And what kind of a relationship he had with his father.。
Actually, John made it very clear。
from the first verse of this gospel.。
John chapter one, verse one says this,。
in the beginning was the word。
and the word was with God and the word was God.。
I'm highlighting this phrase, the word was with God.。
Yes, in Greek, this word with, pros,。
sometimes it's translated as with,。
like being in proximity that we're in the same space。
or we're near each other.。
But there are other translations as well there.。
The other meanings actually means towards,。
like facing towards.。
So you can understand this verse not just as the word,。
Jesus, the son, it's around God in his vicinity.。
The son, the word, Jesus Christ,。
is actually facing towards God.。
The word was facing towards God.。
The word was having a face-to-face relationship。
with God the father ever since the beginning of the world,。
or even before the beginning of the world.。
He has always been in this intimate relationship.。
They're looking at one another.。
They're sharing breath together.。
They are so intimate.。
They know him, he knows the father so well,。
and he's inviting us into that kind of relationship with him,。
this kind of face-to-face relationship with him.。
In Exodus, it says this.。
It talks about a man called Moses。
and his relationship with God.。
The Bible says this,。
the Lord will speak to Moses face-to-face。
as one speak to a friend.。
Friendship, it's like this,。
or the kind of friendship that Jesus is inviting us into,。
it's a face-to-face kind of relationship.。
He's inviting us into this kind of intimacy,。
this kind of face-to-face relationship,。
this kind of intimacy.。
And you know, sometimes this word face in the Bible,。
no matter in Old Testament, New Testament,。
it can be translated as another word.。
This word face sometimes is translated as the presence,。
such as in Genesis 3, verse eight.。
Genesis 3, verse eight happens after men and women,。
Adam and Eve, they took the fruit from the tree,。
and after the fall of men and women happened.。
And so let me read this to you.。
And they, Adam and Eve,。
heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden。
in the cool of the day,。
and the man and his wife hid themselves。
from the presence or from the face of the Lord God。
among the trees of the garden.。
We start hiding from God's face.。
That face-to-face relationship was broken the day。
when Adam and Eve took that fruit.。
But in God's heart, this was always what he wanted.。
He always wanted this face-to-face relationship,。
this friendship with his creation, with humans.。
And Jesus is finally,。
because his word is done on the cross,。
he's inviting us back.。
Now the work is done, the redemptive work,。
it's finally done on the cross.。
So now he could invite us back。
to that intimate friendship with God.。
It means that we could have this face-to-face encounter。
with him again.。
And so, although we know that men and women,。
after they fell, they were trying to hide their face。
from God, but we also see that。
throughout the entire biblical narrative,。
people who want a friendship with God,。
people who wanna walk with God,。
they have been seeking the face of God.。
They have been seeking the presence of God.。
This is what David said in one of his Psalms.。
He said, "One thing I ask from the Lord,。
"this only do I seek,。
"that I may dwell in the house of the Lord。
"all of the days of my life,。
"to gaze on the beauty of the Lord。
"and to seek him in his temple.。
"And my heart says of you, seek his face,。
"your face, Lord, I will seek."。
This is a hard cry of a man。
who was described as the one who is after God's own heart.。
Was he perfect?。
No, far from it.。
But this is the guy that he would always chase。
after God's heart.。
He always wanna be his friend.。
He always wanna journey with him every day.。
He always wanna ask God, what's on your heart?。
What would you like me to do in this kingdom of yours?。
And that's why he's the one who has served。
the heart of God, the will of God in his generation,。
because he was the one who is after God's own heart.。
He's the one who wants to be God's friend.。
And you know,。
being God's friend, therefore,。
means we live a life to seek God's face.。
Not occasionally, not when you needed something,。
when you needed a promotion,。
when you are sick, you needed healing,。
you want a relationship,。
you want a certain boyfriend or girlfriend or whatever,。
you start to come to God's presence,。
seek his face and ask for something.。
No, that's not like that.。
Seeking the face of God means like,。
I just come and enjoy him every day.。
If you've been in love before,。
you would definitely understand what I mean.。
Just seeing that person in front of you,。
just looking at that person's face,。
and you feel and you sense joy。
overwhelming your heart already.。
That's why David also wrote in one of his Psalms,。
Psalm 16, he said,。
there is the fullness of joy in your presence,。
like in your face,。
there's fullness of joy when I see your face,。
when I'm in your presence.。
That joy, I don't need you to do anything for me,。
I don't need you to bless me,。
I don't need you to use me to kill a Goliath。
or win a war or serve anyone or to do some king stuff.。
I'm just satisfied and happy in your presence.。
I'm so secure in your love.。
And I know I'm your friend.。
A friend of God is a person。
who just simply come and seek his face。
before he even seek God's hand.。
It's not about what you can do for me, God,。
it's just you, I enjoy you just as you enjoy me.。
And I wanna have that kind of relationship with you.。
I'm here to seek your face,。
I'm here to immerse myself in your presence。
and just that, nothing else.。
You don't have to do anything for me,。
I'll just enjoy you as it is.。
This is the kind of relationship that Jesus died for.。
He died on the cross so that he could invite us。
back into this kind of friendship with him once again.。
But it's also more than just seeking the face of God,。
being a friend of God is also about sharing the heart of God.。
You see, there's this guy in the Bible called Abraham,。
he was called a friend of God.。
And God even said, you know,。
I'm going to wiped out this city。
'cause they are so sinful,。
but how can I keep that from Abraham?。
He's my friend, how can I not tell him?。
How can I keep things from him?。
God says, I wanna share my heart with him。
because he's my friend.。
And in return, Abraham was talking to God,。
having a dialogue with him.。
He was interceding, praying for people,。
but he was praying according to who God is,。
according to God's character.。
He said, God, because you are just, but also your mercy,。
could you not do this or could you do this?。
Because he knows God's heart。
because he shares God's heart.。
What if there's a people in a city, in Yuen Long,。
who don't just come before God and say,。
God, you know what?。
I need this this week.。
Oh, I have this need next year, could you help me?。
What if we have a people who don't just come and say,。
yeah, I wanna serve, I wanna do something.。
What if we have a people who come and say,。
I wanna be friends of God, I wanna walk with him every day.。
And every day when I wake up in the morning,。
there's one question I wanna ask,。
God, what's on your heart?。
Daddy, what's on your heart?。
What is that?。
I know Pastor John, he's coming to do this workshop。
called The Father's Heart of God.。
And this is the basis Jesus made it possible。
for us to even feel the heart of God。
because we're his friends and he will share whatever。
the Father shares with him with us.。
That's why we could have a taste of the Father's heart.。
Sometimes when you are with someone,。
if you're open to ask this question,。
like God, what is on your heart for this person?。
And perhaps you will start to feel what God is feeling,。
sense what he's sensing or even better,。
it's written in some lyrics that says,。
break our hearts for what breaks yours.。
Sometimes you just walk into a place,。
you just meet people and you immediately feel heartbroken.。
And then you know, that's because God。
is heartbroken for them.。
Because of the sin that is entangling their lives,。
because of the darkness that is surrounding them,。
because they are in hopelessness,。
God's heart is broken for them.。
And when you walk towards those people。
and you ask God, what is on your heart?。
And you will feel this brokenness in your heart as well.。
And whatever you do, it's not just ministry anymore.。
It's not just what you know。
as the right thing to do anymore.。
Whatever you're doing, you're sharing God's heart,。
you're taking that step as though Jesus would have taken。
if he were here on earth.。
And you move in the direction。
where his heart is moving as well.。
What if we have more than servants?。
I mean, servants are great if we're obeying God。
and doing his will.。
I believe great things will happen,。
but what if we have more than that today?。
What if this paradigm shift happens in this church。
and we have friends of God in this room,。
we have friends of God in a community。
and people are asking all the time,。
God, what's on your heart?。
How can I walk with you today?。
What would you like to share with me today?。
And when we start walking,。
we start to sense his heart in our neighborhood,。
in our offices.。
And like Paul said, I'm just compelled by love.。
I can't help.。
I must go and help this person.。
I must speak life to that person.。
I must come and make things right in certain situations。
because that's on the heart of God and I.。
I'm sharing his heart.。
What if there's a church like that on earth。
in Hong Kong and you know,。
or what if the entire church in the entire world。
start to think that way,。
start to be awakened to know that。
Jesus came to fix one thing,。
or he fixed many things,。
but one of the things he fixes。
that we can be friends with God again,。
that we can walk in this friendship with him.。
What if there's a people longing for that,。
praying for that,。
devoting themselves, their lives for that?。
How would that look like?。
I've heard of, you know,。
talking about friendship,。
I'm gonna close with this story.。
It's a story I heard many years ago.。
So another pastor shared this story.。
And so this pastor,。
he was serving in a church。
and there was a deacon or an elder, a leader there.。
He served with him for a while.。
And after quite some time,。
this elder got older and older and older and older.。
And that elder started having dementia,。
cannot remember anything.。
So he couldn't serve in church anymore.。
He couldn't even remember people.。
So there was one time,。
this pastor went to his house to visit him.。
And he just say, "Hey, hi, how are you?"。
And, but that elder or former elder。
couldn't even recognize his pastor.。
So the pastor asked him, "What are you doing?"。
And that elder responded,。
"I'm just waiting for Jesus.。
I'm just waiting to see his face.。
I'm waiting for him to come and pick me up,。
come and meet me."。
I remember that day I prayed, I said,。
"God, I wish one day if I have dementia,。
if I've forgotten everything on this planet,。
of course I wanna remember my family now.。
Now I know, but,。
well, back then when I was still single, I prayed,。
"Can I at least remember you?。
Can I at least remember our friendship?。
That we are friends?。
I just want that."。
I'm grateful for people who are serving God。
very faithfully in our church.。
Truly, I'm very grateful.。
Today as I was praying for us,。
I just felt God is inviting us。
into a journey even deeper.。
As we talk about unity,。
as we talk about how we can walk forward together。
as a church, as a multicultural, multigenerational church.。
You know, these are the, you know,。
the John 13, John 17,。
I felt God wants to bring us into John 15 today,。
the core message that he wants us to be his friends,。
that he has made it possible on the cross.。
And he said, "Divine Yuen Long,。
I'm inviting all of you into a friendship.。
The kind of relationship that I have with my father,。
I wanna have that relationship。
with each and every one of you."。
Shall we pray?。
(sniffling)。
(sighing)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
