and we pray in Jesus name amen thank you Susanna.。
Good afternoon how's everybody going?。
Great nice they've been here through three services so that's encouraging Alison.。
I get the privilege of finishing off this series of encounters with God。
and before we start I just want to share with you that if you came expecting a normal just service。
then you're going to be disappointed because God responds to the desperate. He responds to the。
longing of our hearts and so if you're sitting here today and you've come longing for something。
or desperate for something or just in a place of despair then God will meet you in that place.。
He promises to. Some weeks ago during worship Emma said that the one thing that all of the。
encounters we've been looking at during this series had in common was desperation.。
Desperation what is it and how does it connect with encounters with God?。
Today we're going to look at the story of Hannah so strap yourself in because we're。
going to be reading some passages of scripture. We're going to start with 1 Samuel 1 1 to 10.。
Now there was a certain man of Ramatham, Zohem of the mountains of Ephraim and his name was Elkanah。
the son of Jerahim the son of Elu, Eluhu the son of Tohu the son of Zuv and Ephraimite and he had。
two wives the name of one was Hannah and the name of the other was Peninnah. Peninnah had children。
but Hannah had no children. This man went up from his city yearly to worship and sacrifice to the。
Lord of hosts in Shiloh. Also the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas the priests of the Lord were。
there and whenever the time came for Elkanah to make an offering he would give portions to Peninnah。
his wife and to all his sons and daughters but to Hannah he would give a double portion。
for he loved Hannah although the Lord had closed her womb and her rival also provoked her severely。
to make her miserable because the Lord had closed her womb. So it was year by year when she went up。
to the house of the Lord that she provoked her therefore she wept and did not eat. Then Elkanah。
her husband said to her, "Hannah why do you weep? Why do you not eat and why is your heart grieved?。
Am I not better to you than ten sons?" So Hannah arose after they finished eating and drinking in。
Shiloh. Now Eli the priest was sitting on the seat by the doorpost of the tabernacle of the Lord。
and she was in bitterness of soul and prayed to the Lord and wept in anguish.。
The writer makes sure that the very first thing that we learn about Hannah is that she has no。
children. Elkanah has two wives Peninnah and Hannah. Peninnah we are told has had children。
but Hannah has none. Now why is this significant? In Hannah's day it was considered so shameful to。
be barren that your husband could divorce you. A barren woman could be treated harshly by the。
community she lived in because children were seen as a blessing and if you couldn't have children。
you're perceived as the opposite of being blessed. 1 Samuel 1 8 and verse 10 captures the essence of。
desperation. Hannah why do you weep? Why do you not eat? Why is your heart grieved? And it goes。
on to say in verse 10, "Hannah was in bitterness of soul and prayed to the Lord and wept in anguish."。
Desperation is a state of extreme distress, extreme anxiety or despair caused by a feeling。
of complete helplessness or absence of hope. Hannah was desperate, she was in despair. Her。
husband's other wife Peninnah severely and deliberately provokes her to make her miserable.。
The Bible tells us that she has endured this for years. Hannah is suffering from。
"merat nefesh" which means a bitter soul and "ani" which means affliction. Let's take a。
moment to examine the reason why Hannah is experiencing affliction. The Bible says the Lord。
had closed her womb. She is childless because of the Lord. She is suffering because the Lord。
is allowing it. In the Bible all forms of fertility are presented as gifts from God,。
so why was God keeping Hannah childless and allowing her to endure ridicule from the society。
she lived in? Now it's important to understand that God doesn't use infertility as a punishment,。
but in Hannah's case he was withholding children from her. Before we explore this further we need。
to understand that Hannah's not the only one in the Bible who suffers affliction or suffers。
from a bitter soul. Naomi, after the death of her sons and her husband,。
renames herself Mara which means bitter. Job speaks in the bitterness of his spirit after。
enduring the loss of his family and all that he owned. And yet all these desperate people have。
one thing in common. Their desperation drives them to encounter God and to discover that God。
can work through their afflictions to bring them to a place of greater surrender and fruitfulness.。
Hannah's desperation drove her to encounter God. It could have driven her away,。
but instead she pushes in closer. She cries out, "Remember me." She chooses to trust and she pours。
out her soul to God. Let's hear her words. 1 Samuel 1 verses 11 to 18. Then Hannah made a vow。
and said, "Oh Lord of hosts, if you will indeed look on the affliction of your maidservant and。
remember me and not forget your maidservant and will give your maidservant a male child,。
then I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life and no razors shall come upon his head."。
And it happened as she continued praying before the Lord that Eli watched her mouth.。
Now Hannah spoke in her heart, only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard. Therefore,。
Eli thought she was drunk. So Eli said to her, "How long will you be drunk? Put your wine away。
from you." But Hannah answered and said, "No, my Lord, I am a woman of sorrowful spirit. I've drunk。
neither wine nor intoxicating drink, but have poured out my soul before the Lord. Do not consider。
your maidservant a wicked woman for out of the abundance of my complaint and grief I have spoken。
until now." Then Eli answered and said, "Go in peace and the God of Israel grant your petition。
which you have asked of him." And she said, "Let your maidservant find favor in your sight."。
So the woman went her way and ate and her face was no longer sad."。
Just want to pause for a minute and take a moment to learn something from this passage.。
You know, when people are desperate and grieving and in despair, they are not themselves.。
And it can be easy to misunderstand them. And it can be easy to judge them.。
But we see in this passage that Eli comes to a place at the end where instead of judging her。
like he did at first, he changes into a place where he becomes a source of blessing to Hannah.。
And he speaks peace over her. And when she leaves, her face is no longer sad.。
In our life as we walk, at times we will be desperate and at times though we will be。
surrounded by people who are desperate. May we learn from this to be slow to judge, not to judge。
at all, but rather to be people who respond in compassion and be a source of blessing to them.。
Hannah's desperation and barrenness prompted her to make commitments and vows that she would never。
have made otherwise. Maybe we need to understand just how desperate our condition is, how fragile。
our lives can be. Because unless we do, we are never going to see our equally desperate need for God.。
Desperation is characterized by a sense of urgency or a need for immediate relief.。
Desperation has a purpose. Desperation is meant to drive us into the arms of God.。
At the end of 2007, my husband Glenn and my four children, we packed up our lives in Darwin。
and we returned to Queensland in Australia to say our final goodbyes to family and friends.。
We were moving to Hong Kong to continue our work with a Christian NGO in China.。
We were moving in response to God's leading. And everything had been miraculous up to this point.。
We had been gifted money out of the blue that had covered all of our expenses and all of our plane。
tickets. We arrived in Queensland and our planned month stay before we left for Hong Kong turned。
into another month. And then another month. Something had caused a hold up with our visas。
and no one could give us a clear answer to what was going on. We had four kids aged between three。
and eleven and we were living like nomads, moving between friends and family, sleeping on mattresses。
on the floor out on farms. Me trying to teach our kids, because obviously they, we thought they'd。
only be out of school for a short time, but suddenly it was way longer than what we intended.。
And that one planned month turned into eight long months of waiting.。
I distinctly remember when we reached the eight month mark and it didn't seem to be an end in。
sight. We were at my parents' house and I went into the toilet and I just sat in there. Now,。
those of you with kids will know that that's sometimes the only place you can get some privacy。
and maybe not even then. And I remember feeling so desperate and I remember crying out to God in。
anguish. I reminded him that it was him that had brought us this far. It was in response to his。
leading that we were in this place, this land of in-between. Do you know that land where you're。
not where you once were and you're not yet where you're going and you're in this, stuck in this。
middle place, this land of in-between. I told God I didn't understand why were we having to wait,。
why were we suffering? I couldn't take it anymore. I found myself surrendering afresh,。
my family, my agenda, my future. I told God you have to come through.。
It was that same week that we heard that our visa applications had been approved.。
When we arrived in Hong Kong, I saw our kids who had endured such change in those eight months,。
quickly adapt. They quickly adapted to Hong Kong, it felt so easy. I can still remember that first。
night in Hong Kong. Up to that point, one of my children had been waking every single night and。
she was five years old. And I remember that first night in Hong Kong, she slept through.。
And I was like, "What? We're in Australia, you know, we're in a new country, we're in a new house,。
she's in a new bed." And she slept through. It felt like perfect timing in a hundred different ways.。
You see, desperation has a season and a purpose. Desperation is meant to lead us to an encounter。
with God, a place where we discover hope, a place where we discover peace, a place where we discover。
we can depend on God, a place where we can experience greater fruitfulness. Hannah's。
desperation drives her to God. She prays to the Lord, she weeps bitterly, she makes a vow saying,。
"Lord Almighty, if you only look on your servant's misery and remember me and not forget me,。
but give me a son, I will give him to you all the days of his life." Hannah's desperation drove her。
to God. Where does your desperation drive you? Is your desperation causing you to try to figure out。
your life on your own? Is it driving you to places that you were never meant to go?。
Or is your desperation causing you to rely on things you were never meant to place your trust in?。
You see, there are people in the Bible like Jonah, whose desperation drove them to dark places.。
His desperation drove him into the darkness of the belly of a big fish. Has your desperation driven。
you into some dark places? When we choose to let our desperation drive us to God, we encounter him.。
Why? Because he hears the cries of the desperate and he responds. He promises. He says, "If you draw。
near to me, I will draw near to you." God doesn't break his promises. Psalm 107 reminds us that no。
matter the cause of our desperation, when we cry out to the Lord, he hears us and he delivers us。
from our distress. Psalm 147 verse 3 says, "He heals the brokenhearted and he binds up our wounds."。
Hannah cries out to God. Her desperation causes her to encounter God and experience his faithfulness.。
She regains her hope and her life becomes far more fruitful than she could have ever dreamed.。
Let's pick up the story from 1 Samuel 1 verses 19 to 28. "Then they rose early in the morning。
and worshipped before the Lord and returned and came to their house at Ramah. And Elkanah knew。
Hannah his wife and the Lord remembered her. So it came to pass in the process of time that Hannah。
conceived and bore a son and called his name Samuel saying, 'Because I have asked for him from the Lord.'。
Now the man Elkanah and all his house went up to offer to the Lord the yearly sacrifice and his。
vow. But Hannah did not go up for she said to her husband, 'Not until the child is weaned, then I。
will take him that he may appear for the Lord and remain there forever.' So Elkanah her husband said。
to her, 'Do what seems best to you. Wait until you've weaned him. Only let the Lord establish。
his word.' Then the woman stayed and nursed her son until she had weaned him. Now when she had。
weaned him she took him up with her with three bulls, one ephah of flour and a skin of wine。
and brought him to the place of the Lord in Shiloh and the child was young. Then they slaughtered a。
bull and brought the child to Eli and she said, 'Oh my Lord as your soul lives my Lord, I am the woman。
who stood by you here praying to the Lord. For this child I prayed and the Lord has granted me。
my petition which I asked of him. Therefore I also have lent him to the Lord. As long as he lives he。
shall be lent to the Lord.' So they worshipped the Lord there. Hannah receives a son. She names him。
Samuel, meaning God has heard and God redeems all her affliction and redeems all her suffering by。
unveiling his wondrous plan. You see Samuel goes on to serve as a priest and becomes the first prophet。
and the last judge of Israel. Samuel's life was pivotal in Israel's history. If Hannah had not。
walked the journey she did, would she have been willing to surrender the one thing she wanted。
more than anything in the world, a child? I don't think so.。
Some of you here today are wrestling with God because he is challenging you to surrender.。
Challenging you to surrender something in your life that is very precious to you. It might be。
your freedom. It might be a dream for a spouse or a dream for a child. He might be challenging you。
about an unhealthy relationship that he wants you to let go of. It might be a job that has become。
everything to you, all-consuming. And right now you're sitting here and you know what it's like。
to feel afflicted, to feel like you have no peace. Let your desperation drive you to God.。
Drive you to surrender all those things into his hands.。
Like Hannah, God's plans for you are better and far surpass your own.。
Continue or choose to trust like Hannah did that his plans for you are to prosper you,。
to give you a future and a hope. Hannah surrenders Samuel because she understands the source of all。
good things is God. There's a lesson here. We should not hold on tightly to the things God gives us.。
Be willing to have open hands and a surrendered heart. Hannah in her surrender discovers。
that when we surrender, God pours so much more into our lives. Listen to her prayer after she。
surrenders Samuel to the temple. "My heart rejoices in the Lord. In the Lord my horn is lifted high.。
My mouth boasts over my enemies, for I delight in your deliverance. There is no one wholly like。
the Lord. There is no one besides you. There is no rock like our God. Do not keep talking so proudly。
or let your mouth speak such arrogance, for the Lord is a God who knows, and by him deeds are weighed.。
The bows of the warriors are broken, but those who stumbled are armed with strength. Those who。
were full hire themselves out for food, but those who were hungry are hungry no more.。
She who was barren has born seven children, but she who has had many sons pines away. The Lord。
brings death and makes alive. He brings down to the grave and raises up. The Lord sends poverty。
and wealth. He humbles and he exalts. He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from。
the ash heap. He seats them with princes and has them inherit a throne of honor. For the foundations。
of the earth are the Lord's, and on them he has set the world. He will guard the feet of his faithful。
servants, but the wicked will be silenced in the place of darkness. It is not by strength that one。
prevails. Those who oppose the Lord will be broken. The most high will thunder from heaven. The Lord。
will judge the ends of the earth. He will give strength to his king and exalt the horn of his。
anointed. Hannah worships God because she gets a glimpse of his sovereignty and how everything in。
our lives can be worked together for good when we are willing to live a surrendered life. Hannah。
goes on to be blessed with five more children. God never intended her to stay barren, and he never。
intended her to stay desperate, and neither does he desire that for you. If you are feeling barren,。
if you are feeling empty or closed up or shut up or lifeless or hopeless, helpless, unfruitful,。
desperate, in despair, if you've been praying and longing for something for so long and feel as。
though God's forgotten you, know that all of this has a season and a purpose. You were never meant。
to stay in this place of desperation. Let it lead you to an encounter with God. Like Hannah, pour。
out your soul and cry out, "Remember me." Would you stand with me today?。
Would you close your eyes?。
Hannah's desperation was not of her own making. God had woven it into her story。
to bring her to a place of surrender, to draw her into his greater story and purpose.。
Some of you here today are like Hannah. You are experiencing desperation, but it is not of your。
own making. God has woven it into your story to bring you to a place of surrender.。
But some of you here today, you are experiencing desperation,。
deep dissatisfaction, and it is of your own making.。
Your choices have led you into some dark places, some empty places,。
places that lure you with the promise of so much but leave you hollow and ashamed.。
Let your desperation drive you into the arms of God.。
And some today, you are not desperate enough.。
You're complacent. You're letting life just wash over you.。
The words directionless, meaningless, these are words you know well.。
Ephesians 5, 14 says, "Awake, you who sleep. Arise from the dead, and Christ will give you light."。
Encounter God today. Surrender and receive his light. Receive his presence.。
We're going to create some space, and the worship team is going to lead us.。
We're going to create some space to encounter God, and I want to leave this picture with you.。
I was reminded this morning on the bus on the way in of a story found in Ezekiel.。
In Ezekiel, he sees water coming out from the doors, under the doors of the temple.。
These rivers of water are the presence of God.。
And a man calls Ezekiel to walk into the water, and at first he walks up to his ankles.。
And then the man measures some more and calls him deeper, and he walks up to his knees.。
And then the man calls him deeper, and he's up to his waist.。
And then he sees to go deeper will mean that his feet will no longer be on the ground.。
He'll be completely at the mercy of God's presence, having surrendered all control.。
And my challenge to you today is to locate where you are.。
Are you on the bank, far from the presence of God?。
Or are you up to your ankles?。
We were never meant to stay in the shallows,。
and we were never meant to stay on the bank far from God.。
He calls us to come close, to walk bravely and deeply into his presence,。
to surrender all the things we rely on, the things that we think keep us safe,。
the things that we think satisfy us, to let them all go,。
and to become be completely immersed and surrounded by his presence.。
So as we worship today, I encourage you, just open your hands,。
be like Hannah, say, "God, remember me."。
Choose to walk into an encounter with God today.。
He promises that he will meet you there if you come of your own free choice and cry out to him.。
[Music]。
