Amen. Thank you, Chapman. Let's give it up for Chapman.。
Well, in 2022 on Vision Sunday, Pastor Ivan and I, together with Pastor Andrew, we announced。
that we are planting a church with an English and a Cantonese service.。
Now, we did that during a time when there was still COVID restrictions, so we had to do it on。
a live stream, so we did it on camera. And it was actually a funny story, because Pastor Ivan,。
we were experimenting with, what do you call that thing?。
The teleprompter. But then right when he was going to use it, it failed.。
But he was prepared anyhow, so it was no problem. So there's a lot of behind the。
scene sort of stuff that happened. But besides that, we also mentioned on that Sunday。
that we did not know where we were going to plant the church. So we said we had six。
criteria that we're looking for and with which we're going to search. And hopefully,。
that year we had Vision Sunday Part 1 and Part 2, hopefully on Vision Sunday Part 2,。
we will be able to tell the church where we're actually planting the church.。
Now, I just want you to sit in that a little bit, that you're going in front of a group of people。
and you're saying you're going to do something, but you don't know where you're going to do it.。
And then also, you're doing it on camera, so at that point in time, you can't even physically。
gather with each other. So there was a statement of an act of faith and of courage。
that we did that. And there was another part of it. It was part of our vision,。
because we had what's called a river model vision, where there's this image of a river。
flowing all over across Hong Kong with all the secondary rivers and little creeks.。
And that God wants us, instead of focusing on building one big church,。
he wants the river to flow throughout Hong Kong, watering thirsty land. And he wants to form new。
and different types of communities, fresh expressions throughout the land to love,。
to serve, to share the gospel for his kingdom. And we also said this is greater than the wine church.。
This is not just wine church. We're not trying to build empire. We really just want to be obedient。
to God and share the gospel and do his work. Now, all of this, during this time, there was also a。
sense that we had as a leadership that this was a prophetic act. That while other companies were。
pulling out of Hong Kong, their investments, they were shifting to regional headquarters like。
Singapore and other Asian hub cities. We felt that God was asking us to double down on investing in。
Hong Kong. There was the sense that God was saying to us, I'm not finished with Hong Kong.。
But the reality was at the time, there was quite a few people, not everyone,。
but it was quite a few people who at that time felt that way. It was just a very difficult season.。
And so this was an act of faith and of stepping out and then doing what God asked us to do.。
Now, we did not do this on our own. You can't plant a church on your own.。
Otherwise, it'd just be Ivan and I hanging out, having a beer probably, or actually wine.。
Truth be told, it'd be wine. It wouldn't be beer. But there was others involved in that. And so I。
actually want to ask those of you who were part of the launch team that met and went shy to stand up.。
So you see there's a few people here that were part of that. You can sit down. Thank you so。
much for doing that, for humoring me. So this was a group of brave people who responded not to Ivan。
and I really, but what God was saying to them and how God was moving and stirring in their hearts.。
And he said, yes, I want to be part of that. I can see what God wants to do. And so I'm going to。
step out in faith. I'm going to take this risk because it's risky to go out, to leave your。
comfort. Man, the Vine Church and Wine Shy is home. It's been a place of healing for many of us。
and a place of friendship and a place, I know for my wife, it's the only place besides here。
now that she's ever been part of a church. And so this was leaving home. But everyone stepped out。
because they were moved and touched by the Holy Spirit to do so. And I do want to acknowledge。
that subsequently there's been people stepping out in faith and joining us in what we're doing.。
There's a lot of faith and going back to church, if you haven't been in church in a while,。
there's a lot of faith and making your gifts and talents available as you join us and helping us。
carry out this mission and this work that God has given us.。
But what I wanted us to see is it's amazing when we're willing to get out of our comfort zone。
what God can do. When we make ourselves available to him and Margaret Mead, she was an American。
cultural anthropologist and a speaker and author, also an Anglican Christian, she said this,。
"Never doubt a small group of committed people can change the world. Indeed, it's the only thing。
that ever has." So it always takes people to step out and take that first step into,。
you know, this new thing that God is doing. And so it's amazing what God has done. And I hope。
you've been amazed. I know Ivan and I are. And we're just blown away by the work of God, the。
work of the Spirit here in this community. And it's this what we are sensing and are being called。
to this year again. God is calling us out of our comfort zone into uncharted waters because of the。
kingdom impact it will have on Hong Kong and because of discipleship impact it will have on us.。
Now along with this word of uncharted waters that God has given us, there was also a prophetic。
image that was shared. This is Pastor Andrew shared this with the church leadership.。
The church leadership discerned and approved that yes, this is a word not just for Wan Chai,。
but it's also a word for Wan Chai, but also a word for Yuen Long as well. And after all,。
we are one church in two locations, right? And so this image is of a boat of kind of during like。
earlier days when there was uncharted waters, when you didn't know what lies in that direction if you。
just sail out straight. And so there's this image of a boat heading out and there's an excitement。
among the crew that is heading out on this boat. There's an anticipation and an expectation of。
what's to come. There's a captain standing at the bow and peering at the horizon, you know,。
to wondering what were we going to discover? What are we going to find? And the crew is using their。
gifts and talents working together to, because that's the only way it works on these adventures.。
Excuse me.。
My apologies. And so the image, but there's also besides a sense of excitement,。
there's also some fear and some anxiety because going in the uncharted waters,。
you know, it's uncomfortable and we don't know what's going to happen. And there's a sense。
of that resilience and courage, you know, we'll be needed flexibility to make adjustments as we go.。
And so this was this image that God gave us for this year. Now, this is not a new vision in terms。
of what we're doing as a church. We still have our river model vision and a growing big people。
vision that we are pursuing together. But now, but this is what God, we sense God inviting us。
into stepping in these uncharted waters and this uncharted territory. Now, I know that many of you。
feel like, man, Tim, we just got settled here. We just, we already did the uncharted thing. We。
already went out. Come on. What are you talking about? You know, and we understand that. And。
it's been amazing, you know, that we made ourselves available. We went and we've experienced what God。
has done. But we sense that last year was a bit of a time of also arresting, you know, of that。
intimacy. We also talked about, there was a lot of healing. You know, we had the sermons, he's。
longing for healing. We felt that God was doing healing work. And so, but now he's inviting us。
to set out again as a boat together. And we didn't plant this church to stay in the harbor.。
You know, we plant this church to set out into the community, into the businesses,。
into your families, into your neighborhoods. And then as we're sailing out, we believe。
that there will be discoveries of the work of God is doing that he wants us to say yes to,。
to give ourselves to, you know, to these things that God is doing,。
where the spirit of God is moving. And then when we, when you see God work, when he invites you。
in something, it does take that decisive response. You know, you cannot say, "Oh yeah, okay,。
maybe later." No, if God is moving here, this is like a Kairos moment. Like it's an opportune。
time. We need to respond now. We need to give ourselves to it now. And there's things we're。
just not going to discover when we just stay here in the harbor. So we have to set out.。
And I'm excited about that and excited to see, you know, what God is going to open up for us。
as we head out together in this community, in our workplaces, and what opportunities he's。
going to give us to give ourselves to, to be part of the work that he is doing of bringing。
his kingdom more fully on this earth. Now, let me take you to Matthew 13,。
quite well-known parables. Starting with verse 44, it says this,。
"The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field. When a man found it, he hid it again.。
And then in his joy, he went out and he sold all he had and bought that field."。
Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant looking for fine pearls. When he found one of。
great value, he went away and sold everything he had and bought it. Now, the first parable。
suggests that the kingdom is something that we stumble across. The worker of the field,。
he was not like a treasure seeker with one of those metal detectors.。
He was actually just trying to earn his day's wage. And as he was going about his work,。
suddenly he discovered his treasure.。
So that's how in the first parable the kingdom comes upon that person.。
And then in the second parable, it suggests that the kingdom is encountered。
because there are expected surprises. So this is somebody who's intentionally seeking. He's。
seeking for great pearls. It's a merchant. He knows what a good pearl looks like,。
but he has to wait until one comes. And as he sees the great one, then he knows what he's seeing,。
and then he goes for it. So the kingdom of God comes, we stumble across it, but we also。
seek it out and then discover it because we're seeking it. So I think that's important for us。
in the season. So both parables, they also make the point that this is an opportunity and actually。
also requires us to respond decisively when we come across the kingdom, when we find that treasure,。
when we find that pearl of great value. And one thing that stood out to me。
was in the first parable, it talks about that there is great joy of the discovery.。
And I think that's important for us because there is a great sacrifice. He sells everything that he。
has. The merchant sells everything that he has. By the way, the day laborer was not a particular。
wealthy man. He was actually probably a person with not very many resources. And the merchant。
was probably a wealthy man, a businessman. But when he came across the opportunities,。
they had to give their all to respond to it, to have it, to be part, to experience this great joy。
and to really receive it. And so the price is high. It's not an easy, "Oh yeah, maybe I'll sell。
piano that I don't like, but I'll keep the stamp that I really like. I'm not going to let go of。
this. I'm going to hold on to my Pokemon card collection and I'll let go of something." No,。
it requires a full response, a full giving of ourselves in order to be part of what God is doing.。
And so there's a real cost, there's a real risk and chance taking in responding to the kingdom。
when God's reign and the work of God breaks upon us. The same is true for us.。
I mean, we enter the kingdom, of course, when you come to faith, so there's a radical response。
because it means you're giving up your lordship. Instead of being lord of your own life, right?。
Your Jesus becomes your Lord. So there's a significant shift in that. But then at later。
times, when the kingdom of God breaks into our lives, it still calls for a radical response.。
And like with the person who found a treasure in the field and the merchant who found this。
incredible pearl, they saw something that other people didn't see. They saw something of tremendous。
and incredible value. We could say they saw a better possible future. They saw this incredible。
thing that God was doing. They're like, "I'm going to give myself to that. I want to be part of that.。
I believe in this. I want to see this happening." And in order to be part of it and for this to be。
realized, we have to give ourselves to what God is doing. And there's a sacrifice in that. And。
that's how these things that God is doing, how he allows us to be part of what he's bringing about.。
And so in this season, there is great joy when we're going to stumble across these things。
of the kingdom that God is doing. And there's also going to be great joy because we're seeking it out。
and we see, "Wow, God is moving here. And I want to be part of what God is doing there."。
And I think that's important because sometimes I feel like in church,。
it's like we're dreading, "Oh, we're being asked to sacrifice." And I don't know if I want to。
sacrifice. And I think the important part is God first shows you this amazing thing that he's doing.。
And there's great joy. There's something within us. We're like, "Yes, I want to be part of that.。
I want to see this thing happen." And that allows us to make the sacrifice because we see the beauty。
of the work of God. And so there's this parable that kind of gives us a picture of how we need。
to enter and move into these uncharted waters. It's a season where we'll need to be both。
intentional seeking out the kingdom, but we need to also be ready to respond to these unexpected。
moves of God that we stumble across when they happen so we can say yes to them.。
And like these parables show, it takes decisive action. It doesn't just happen.。
Now, the Divine Church has a bold organizational practice. So we meet twice a month as a staff。
from One Shining Long together. And one of the things that people can do in the quarters,。
they can ask any question anonymously. Now, anonymously is always, you just don't know what。
you're going to get, right? And there are tough questions, but it is really a way of opening a。
channel for truthful communication. And so early on in the church plan, one of the questions that。
was asked was, "What if the church plan fails?" And so then the question was given to me and。
then later to Ivan to address. And it was interesting because I was worried about things.。
I was worried, will we have enough people for a launch team? Will we figure out the location?。
So there was questions I was wondering about, but I didn't think of this church plan in terms of。
success and failure. But I'm glad the person asked the question because, you know, as we had a chance。
to think about it a little bit and then respond, it was really clear to me that, you know, God had。
moved. He had given us this envision. He had invited us into this work. And for me, failure。
would be not to respond to this thing that God is inviting us to do. You know, for me, failure。
would be not to invest in the kingdom of God. And that would be failure. And so。
for me to fail is if the vine would never seek to plant a church,。
reach the loss for the gospel of peace and hope, or serve the vulnerable and marginalized.。
You know, for churches that just always play it safe, that never go for it,。
you know, we're missing out on what God wants to do. And so he gave us, he had us see this treasure,。
but then we had to give ourselves towards it to make it happen. And then whatever happens is up。
to him. We just need to be faithful in responding to what he asks us to do. And so this is what God。
is inviting us into. Now I'm excited to invite up Ivan. He's going to share with you something。
that we're sensing. So we have this theme of uncharted, and he's going to share with you a。
little bit, some of the things that are in his art. So Ivan, why don't you come up here? Let's。
welcome Ivan. Thank you, Pastor Tim. Yeah. Let me share with you about a group of people in Hong。
Kong that lead us to take risks for. A group of people that are well setting out for into uncharted。
waters because the cost of staying in the harbor is too great. I would like to share a very。
interesting research about recent religions trends in Hong Kong. We can show the slide. A。
2023 Peel Research Center, the report showed that there are raised in religions. It showed。
that this affiliation in a widespread trend in Hong Kong. You can see that we have 37% of people。
reporting they were raised in a religion, but have left their childhood faith, which is the highest。
number in the whole Asia. More over, 30% of people, the report that they were raised without。
a religion, while 61% currently identify as religiously unaffiliated. This is representing。
a 31% of gain in people with no religion affiliation. The percentage of religiously。
unaffiliated grows even more dramatically among young adults aged 18 to 34. You can see the。
number. 74% they show that they are religiously unaffiliated. They are labeled as nones.。
That means they are loving in their religions. They are loving their low relationship with God,。
any God. This is a percentage showing that it is interesting enough to reflect the phenomenon。
with we have observed in the majority of local churches in Hong Kong nowadays, especially for。
this group of age, younger generation. People have not only left the church, but also abandoned。
their faith. This group of young generation, they not only just left their church,。
stay in the church themselves, the faith themselves, but they left their faith.。
This is clearly a serious and critical situation for our younger generation.。
God led us to plan a church in Yuen Long two years ago. According to government data,。
Yuen Long district is proceeded for continued growth, driven by new town development and。
strategic urban planning. The population of Yuen Long in 2030 is projected to be 700,000.。
700,000. Can you imagine that? 700,000 people in Yuen Long district.。
With over 20%, which means more than 140,000 being young adult age 18 to 34. Tim and I and。
Chapman, we are not in this group, so we can proudly say that they are young generation.。
I saw that there's a lot of young generation among us as well.。
This demographic is a critical component of this growth. With chance, I indicated a preference for。
newer residential areas, offering more than amenities and affordability. Projections suggest。
that this district, Yuen Long district, will continue to attract younger family and professionals.。
So maybe some of you may live in other districts before, but you just moved to this district。
because of different reasons. But we can see that more and more young families and also young。
professionals will come to this district. We hope that we can really serve them.。
But where is this young people spiritually?。
They are the missing piece of the church in Hong Kong nowadays.。
They are the future of this city, but they cannot see the kingdom of God.。
They live at home, a spiritual home like us. What I want to emphasize is that we are in the best。
place, the best location, the best timing, the best moment to serve this group of younger generation.。
A spoken person from one of the biggest Hong Kong local research centers told me that。
through their research, they found that the main reason why the younger generation left church。
is not about the context inside the church. It's not about the political stance. It's not about。
leadership issues. This younger generation left church is primarily because they couldn't see。
church making positive impact on this city. They couldn't see that this church, that religion,。
as related to their lives. They couldn't see that the value of the church.。
So, church, this is time. This is the time for us as a church to humbly kneel before God,。
to step up for our next generation, the younger generation, to let God be God of this city。
and his people, to lift up our voices and give up our own desires, to set ourselves aside for God。
and sacrifice all we have for his kingdom. This is a time for all people to praise and return。
the glory to God because God himself deserves all the glory. Amen.。
There is a picture, that picture that totally facilitated me.。
Imagine there is a church fully and faithfully investing in a group of younger people,。
loving them, caring them, encouraging them, empowering them, discipling them, and also。
walk with them for all this, their journey to grow together. Imagine in the coming 20 years,。
there are 200 and 300 and 200 young people who have grown as big people.。
These people faithfully love their family. They wholeheartedly to serve the church and they。
impactfully, spiritually to impact this city. I believe that this city will definitely change。
with this group of people. They have been discipled. Amen. Amen. So as a church like us,。
in this critical place, critical moment in Hong Kong, in this city, what shall we do?。
What shall we do this year? It doesn't mean that we need to serve like 140,000 people,。
but we believe that God has given us a specific calling to work for his kingdom.。
So let's welcome back Pastor Tim to share what is in our heart, what God put in our heart.。
Thank you, Ivan. Brilliant. Yeah, let's give him a hand.。
[Applause]。
Now, what might these uncharted waters look like for us? Well, the one thing that Ivan and I,。
and we did wrestle with this prayerfully for a very long time, but the one thing that we both,。
our spirits both jumped, you know, is this young adults peace, where we just really sense God's。
heart for the young adults of the city and that we as a church need to step out, get uncomfortable。
and do something. And so in 2025, our heart is to plant a third Sunday service that is built on the。
foundation of young people. So we want to get young, this young generation together,。
and then from there launch a third service. And so we sense a strong call to invest。
in this next generation. Somebody has to do it. And we think we're positioned to do it.。
Now, going into uncharted territories, you know, it's not comfortable, it's not easy. It means。
getting out of our comfort zone. Like Ivan shared, there's, you know, the generation,。
a lot of the people in the generation feel like that. Like church doesn't matter. They don't see。
the relevance of faith and of God and of Jesus, you know, for their own lives and for the city.。
And so they just set it aside. And so our challenge is to find ways of showing and modeling,。
you know, that Jesus and following him and living for him, you know, is worth it.。
You know, that he does have an identity, a purpose for their lives, and that it is beautiful and。
exciting and it is something worth giving themselves to. But for every generation,。
you have to find new ways of sharing this good news and of communicating this truth.。
And so there's going to be some effort and some energy and some getting uncomfortable。
that will be needed for this uncharted work. But as I was preparing this, I just really had to sense,。
you know, someone got out of their comfort zone and got uncomfortable for your sake,。
to share the gospel with you. You know, somebody got uncomfortable for you.。
And so I just wondered, church, are we going to be willing to be uncomfortable to share this。
beautiful gospel message? It's good news, right? Are we going to be willing to be uncomfortable。
to share this good news with a generation that where many of them right now are nuns?。
They just don't want to affiliate with anything religious, let alone Jesus, Christianity.。
So I think it's time for us to get uncomfortable, to go out. Doesn't mean we have the answers of。
how to do all of this or how to do everything, but there's this call for us to go out.。
Now, how will we do it and what will also this third service look like? Well, in some sense,。
we don't know. We're called Season Uncharted. We have this one piece, young adults, third service,。
but how we're going to get there, we don't know. And we actually wanted to also be careful not to。
put out strategies and plans. And I mean, we were involved in planting this church,。
so we have some ideas of what this could be like. But we felt that we needed to be careful。
and just hold our ideas loosely and just really be open for these things that God opens up.。
So we can say yes to them and follow the Holy Spirit's leading and not the old paths and the。
old ways, which maybe that's what God leads us on. But we go there because God leads us on,。
not because that's where past success was. So church, I'm so excited to step with you guys。
into this uncharted season. I do want to share a little bit of what we can picture. We do picture,。
obviously, if you're a young adult here, we want to talk to you and hear what is on your heart。
regarding your generation. We want to just hear what excites you about this vision.。
We can imagine getting you together like a young adults community, Sunday afternoons,。
or something like that. We can imagine running a young adults alpha that's specifically geared。
towards you. And so there's many things that we can imagine, but the only thing that's clear is。
young adults, third service, and then talking to you. So that's the starting point. And then。
we'll take it from there. Now, while that really is our big focus, in addition to that, I do want。
to say that I believe that God will open up some opportunities this year as well that we cannot。
plan for, that we could not even know, but that he wants us to respond to. Maybe it's a third,。
maybe it's another mission partner, an organization that we partner with and that we do incredible。
kingdom work in the city with. And so we also just want to be ready for that as well. I just。
wanted to mention that. Now, I want to invite the worship team to come up. So as we step into this。
uncharted season, there's going to be things that we do not know yet about that God wants to do in。
and through us. But these things are only going to happen if we are willing to go out, if we're。
willing to sail out on the boat in the uncharted waters. For me, it would be a pity if at the end。
of the year, we all never were uncomfortable for the kingdom's sake. You know, my heart is that。
we're willing to risk, to give God our all, you know, to make ourselves available to him for the。
things that he has for us. Now, this is not a time in Hong Kong's history for the church to be。
comfortable. There are so many young people who need to be impacted for the sake of the gospel.。
And if the church remains in this place of comfort, this will not happen. Come on, church.。
Let's do this, right? Yes. Now, because this is a time of calling us in the uncharted waters and。
being uncomfortable, I'm going to do something that is a little bit uncomfortable for me,。
but I'm going to do it anyhow, which is, you know, today is Vision Sunday. So we do ask that you give。
in response to this vision, to this thing that God has revealed to us, you know, for this year.。
And there is also a decisiveness that is needed in that. So I want to invite you to prayerfully。
consider what God might be inviting you to give right now. You're giving as an investment。
in the future of Hong Kong and the future generation of Hong Kong.。
You're giving today will allow us to respond to the moves of God. Because like we said,。
we don't know when this discovery is made. Sometimes we stumble across it. Sometimes we。
find it because we're seeking it out. But when we do, we want to be able to respond and give。
ourselves fully to it. And so one way that we're able to do that is also through finances,。
you know, that we can respond to the things that we come across. So we want to invite you to give.。
We're asking you today to give above and beyond your normal ties,。
to give towards this vision. So we're inviting you now to make an investment in the city。
that you love, that you are planted in through the church that you are in.。
And every amount that you give today, it counts. You know, it matters. And the beauty of it is,。
is that we get to do this together as a family. We all get to get behind this vision together.。
So I invite you right now to give. I'm going to say a prayer and then Chapman's going to come up.。
He's going to share a few more words after that. So let me pray for us, church. Why don't we stand up?。
Jesus, we thank you so much。
that you love every single person here in the city, that you long for them to know you.。
Jesus, we thank you how you've been so faithful to us, how you've brought us here and all this。
amazing work that you've done. And we give you praise. Lord, I pray that you give us courage。
to respond to the moves of your spirit, this courage to get out of our comfort zones.。
Then as your kingdom breaks in, as your reign reveals itself, as what you're doing becomes。
clear, Lord, I pray that you stir excitement in our heart where we can see, wow, that is beautiful.。
I can see this better future. I want to be part of it. Lord, I pray that you give us courage to。
give ourselves to this work that you're doing throughout all of our being, through our serving,。
through our giving. And Lord, may you use it for your glory. May you be honored this year by us,。
your church. And so we thank you that you speak to us. We thank you for this journey that we're。
I'm with you and I pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
