Sandlin Feilok, Happy New Year!。
So good to see you all.。
So, as we start the beginning of this year,。
I thought it was important for us to actually take a look back。
at what God has done in this past year.。
And I think that will help us actually step into what God has for us in 2024.。
And so what I want to do is highlight some milestones。
in our church's life.。
So let me share some with you.。
First, in January last year, we set out from Wan Chai.。
We moved from Wan Chai. We were meeting there as a launch team.。
Here to Yuen Long at EIS International Preschool.。
And we started our English service.。
It was incredible.。
After that, or while we were at EIS,。
God did some significant things in us.。
He helped us to shift from being acquaintances.。
We actually didn't know each other that well.。
To being a spiritual community, a spiritual family that loves each other.。
That knows what's going on in each other's lives.。
That was a significant shift.。
We also went from being a launch team。
to actually being a local church.。
Now during that time, we also had some amazing celebrations.。
We had our first child dedication.。
We prayed and blessed one of our children.。
We had our baptisms, our first baptisms.。
Had an amazing celebration at the beach.。
And we also started live preaching.。
On August 20th, we were able to launch our Cantonese service.。
Now if you don't know, right from the beginning,。
we set out that we want to plant a church。
that has an English and a Cantonese service.。
And August 20th, we were able to get that started.。
And I really, God's work is amazing.。
Because I always say to Pastor Ivan,。
it's not easy to start a Cantonese speaking service。
coming out of an English speaking church.。
But God has worked in incredible ways.。
And so this morning, we had our Cantonese service.。
It was amazing.。
Then in September, we relocated here to this venue.。
Now there is also a lot of stories behind that.。
It was such a struggle to get this thing ready and approved.。
And there was a point I prepared a speech to the whole church。
to say that we are not able to move forward with this venue.。
But then God came through and he provided for us.。
And so now we were able to move in here in September.。
Yes, praise God.。
Michael Angelo Anu.。
We also had our public launch.。
Before we were kind of in hiding, soft launch.。
But then we publicly announced that we have planted a church here。
and we are here.。
And then since coming into this place,。
we've facilitated Alpha in Cantonese and in English.。
We've had some collaborations or started to in some ways。
a farm with YWAM Shanty, with YWAM Harbor City,。
with Branches of Hope, with Oasis, with EIS.。
And so those are some of the partnerships。
and some of the work outside of this church that we started doing.。
And then one thing that amazes me,。
and if anyone would have told me that at the beginning of the year,。
is we went from 35 people who were called from God。
to step out and launch this church,。
to being on average 166 people every Sunday and 31 children.。
And so to me that's amazing.。
And then finally we were able to start eight community groups,。
both in English and in Cantonese, places of connection,。
places where we can belong, places where we can grow in our faith.。
And so God has been amazing.。
He has done incredible work in 2023.。
He has laid a foundation for us.。
And so now we stand at the beginning of 2024.。
And how are we going to step into this new year?。
And I believe that there's a lot of things on God's heart for us for this year.。
But how are we going to do it?。
Part of our vision has always been。
that we're going to plant this church,。
that we love and serve Yulong, Hong Kong, our community,。
and that we would serve our neighbors in practical and impactful ways.。
We see ourselves especially serving ethnic minority and majority families.。
So we feel that God is giving us a family focus。
of serving people in the community.。
And this year, 2024, is really about fleshing that out,。
working that out.。
We really want to see this happen.。
We want to see parents' lives touched,。
children's lives touched, single parents' lives touched。
by the love of God, cared for in practical ways.。
But here's the thing.。
We know that we cannot do this out of our own strength.。
We cannot do this by our own wisdom.。
We need God to work in our hearts, in our lives.。
And so we desperately need the Holy Spirit to move,。
to bring unity to us as a body of Christ,。
to prepare us, to equip us, to mobilize us.。
You know, I as a pastor, I can try to encourage you to go,。
and maybe we go a little,。
but it's really the Holy Spirit's work in our hearts。
that sends us, that mobilizes us.。
It's God's calling us into this work in 2024.。
I cannot do that for myself.。
I cannot do it for you.。
It's the Holy Spirit's work.。
And so as we begin the year with a 21-day fast,。
we're calling out to God to meet us, to speak to us.。
We're asking God for a move of His Holy Spirit。
to bring us in alignment with each other。
as we go out and serve and love the people around us in 2024.。
And this really is a cry of our hearts.。
God, we need you to work.。
We desperately need you.。
We cannot do it on our own strength.。
You know, it's you who changes lives.。
We don't change people's lives.。
God changes people's lives.。
If we rely on our own strength, you know,。
we're going to do some stuff,。
but I don't want to just do stuff in 2024.。
I want to see God move.。
I want to stand at the end of 2024 and say,。
"Wow, praise Jesus for what He has done."。
Where it's so clear that it was not us,。
but it was by the Spirit, by God's power。
that He was working through His people.。
That's what I want to see.。
And so as we're entering into this fast,。
we're expressing this longing.。
God, we need you.。
We need you for our own life,。
because there's stuff going on in our own lives,。
and we need you for what you are calling us to.。
We don't want to move on our own strength.。
We want to move in the strength of the power of the Holy Spirit。
as we go out.。
So that's why we're beginning the year with a 21-day fast.。
Now, this is part of the Vine Church tradition.。
You want to see God.。
You want to say, "We need you."。
We want to commune with God.。
And so we're going to enter into this year。
and step into this year having heard from God,。
having come into His presence,。
having possibly sorted out some stuff in our own lives。
that needs some sorting。
so that we can move ahead for what He has for us.。
You know, that's our heart for this year.。
That's my heart as your pastor for this year.。
I want to see God move.。
So I'm excited about this.。
I hope you're excited.。
I'm really excited about it.。
And I can't wait to see what God does.。
Now, today we're beginning a new sermon series,。
new year, new sermon series, right?。
Seems like that's what we should do.。
And we've entitled the sermon series "Fresh Encounter."。
We want to encounter Jesus in fresh and new ways.。
As a church, and this is one Chai and also Hyunhee Long,。
there was a sense, you know,。
that Jesus was calling us to commune with Him in a deeper way,。
to draw close to Him,。
to really just sit in His presence.。
And so the series, we're going to have five practical ways,。
five spiritual practices。
that are going to help us to draw into Jesus' presence,。
to commune with Him.。
And so let me share the five things that we're planning on doing.。
So today we're going to talk about fasting.。
You know what that is.。
Next week, prayer.。
Then we'll talk about personal worship,。
confession and repentance.。
Don't skip that one, that Sunday, right?。
It's an important one.。
And God's Word.。
Now earlier before the service,。
we were talking about -- or somewhere, I actually don't remember where,。
but today is some time.。
We talk about, you know, it's easy in our Christian life。
to talk about past experience of what God has done,。
He did 20 years ago.。
But we want a fresh encounter this year.。
We don't want to tell stories from a few years ago or several years ago.。
We want to experience Jesus in new ways this year.。
So this sermon is going to challenge us to deepen our walk with Jesus.。
And even if we've been Christians for a long time,。
it's time for something fresh.。
It's time for Jesus, for us to ask Jesus to do something new in our lives。
and hear from Him anew.。
So I'm excited about this.。
This is going to be good.。
Now today our topic is fasting, and we're doing a corporate fast,。
which means we're doing it together as a church.。
But we also want to invite you to personally ask the Holy Spirit,。
what is it that you want me to fast about?。
What is in your life that you need God to meet you for?。
Is there a relationship?。
Is there a sin that we're stuck in that for whatever reason。
we just can't break free from?。
Is there a decision that we have to make?。
Is there a favor in the workplace or something that we need?。
So I want to encourage you to ask the Holy Spirit,。
what is it that you want me to fast for?。
So what we're going to explore today through this message is three questions.。
What is fasting?。
Why do people fast?。
And how do I do it?。
So let me start off with what is fasting?。
Now, I don't know about you, but for me, for the longest time,。
fasting played no role in my life.。
I didn't do it for a long time.。
I actually can't remember when I fasted for the first time.。
It might have been my 30s.。
I was already a pastor at that time.。
But I never fasted.。
And I just didn't see the connection between me and fasting,。
between my spiritual life and fasting.。
And so I was surprised when I found out and was reading God's word。
that Jesus actually assumes that his followers will fast.。
So in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus teaches a little bit about fasting.。
And he starts off that teaching section with, "When you fast."。
So Jesus is assuming that fasting will be part of Christians' lives.。
Now, it's not a command.。
He doesn't say, "You need to fast."。
He doesn't say how often you need to fast.。
But it is assumed that Christians will engage in a spiritual practice of fasting.。
Now, besides seeing that Jesus--that is something that he assumes。
that we're going to be doing, I want to take you to the Bible passage。
that I believe in the New Testament is the most important teaching on fasting.。
So we're going to go to Matthew 9, verses 14 and 15.。
It says this, "Then John's disciples came and asked him,。
'How is it that we and the Pharisees fast often, but your disciples do not fast?'。
Jesus answered, 'How can the guests of the bright room mourn while he's with them?。
The time will come when the bright room will be taken from them.。
Then they will fast.'"。
So John the Baptist's disciples, they're observing, they're watching Jesus。
and Jesus' disciples, and something just does not seem right.。
And they're like, "Why are they feasting?"。
They're like eating a lot.。
They're having all these social engagements.。
But why are they not fasting?。
Because fasting--see, it's like the longing for God to move and do something.。
And actually, the Pharisees, John's disciples, they fasted for the Messiah to come.。
They were longing for change.。
And so John's disciples are like, "You guys don't seem serious.。
You don't seem serious about God."。
And so they're asking Jesus because he's the teacher,。
and the teacher is responsible for their students.。
And I always love how Jesus responds.。
He responds with a question.。
He says, "How can the guests of the bright room mourn while he's with them?"。
Now what does that mean?。
Why is Jesus talking about bright rooms and mourning and guests and all that?。
Well, during the days of Jesus, wedding feasts, they were seven days long.。
And if you were invited to a wedding feast, you were not allowed to do very heavy work,。
but you were also not allowed to mourn during that time.。
You were not allowed to fast during that time.。
It was a time of celebration.。
It was a joyous occasion.。
So you're not allowed to be the downer from the party.。
And Jesus is saying about himself, "I am the bright room."。
And the disciples, they're my guests.。
And it doesn't make sense for them to fast while I'm with them.。
But there's another important piece of information that we need to know to understand this。
whole bright room, guests, wedding feast thing.。
In the Old Testament, the prophets, for example, Isaiah,。
he talks about a time when there will be a banquet,。
when God will host a banquet.。
And it's when God's kingdom is fully realized.。
When his kingdom has come, his will has been done, and he fully reigns.。
His reign has been fully established on earth.。
And it's known as a messianic banquet.。
And Jesus, he's making a claim about himself, about his identity.。
He's making a claim that he is God with us.。
He's the bright room of that banquet.。
And he's here now.。
In the person of Jesus, the kingdom of God has broken into the present moment.。
And so it doesn't make sense for those who are with him to be fasting.。
This is a joyous occasion.。
This is actually what John the Baptist's disciples had been fasting for,。
that the Messiah would come.。
And so he's saying it doesn't make any sense for the disciples to fast.。
But then Jesus continues to respond to the question that was asked.。
He says, the second part of verse 15 says this,。
"The time will come when the bright room will be taken from them.。
Then they will fast."。
So Jesus is predicting his own death.。
He's predicting that he will go to the cross, that he will die,。
that he will rise, and that he will ascend to heaven.。
And then the disciples will fast during that time period.。
Again, it assumes that we will be fasting.。
But it changes a little bit the meaning of fasting,。
because now the disciples are fasting in anticipation of Jesus' second coming,。
when this messianic banquet will be held.。
They're longing for God's work, his kingdom work, to be manifested in the present now.。
It's a cry for the kingdom when they're fasting.。
They're crying out for God to come and to move and for him to reign。
and for his will to be established, for his wholeness to come, for his peace to come.。
That's the character of the fasting.。
By fasting, they're expressing through the hunger of their bodies。
the longing for moral, spiritual, social, political change in this world,。
for the manifestation of the kingdom of God to break into their present moment,。
because in their present moment, there are things that are just not right.。
And there is a deep longing in the heart for them to change in their own lives,。
but also in the lives of the people around us.。
Now, this type of fasting is nothing else than the second and the third petition of the Lord's Prayer.。
"Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven."。
It's a cry for the kingdom.。
So what is fasting?。
Christian fasting and prayer is the passionate pursuit of the not yet of the kingdom,。
the areas where God's will is not realized yet,。
a longing for the establishment of God's reign in our present moment.。
That's what fasting is.。
And when we fast, we make ourselves available.。
Like we sang earlier, I will make room for you to do whatever you want to.。
We're humbling ourselves.。
We're coming before God empty-handed.。
We say, "We need you.。
We desperately need you.。
Our city desperately needs you."。
And we ask for you to come and to meet us, to move,。
to bring change, to transform, for redemption.。
Fasting is also a prophetic declaration of hope。
that whatever might be going on, whatever our circumstances are,。
whatever seems like a lost cause, it is not the final word.。
So when we fast, we make that prophetic declaration.。
Whatever is going on, whatever the circumstances are,。
this is not God's final word on the circumstances.。
Because we have hope, because we know Jesus is coming again.。
And Jesus is not finished with us yet.。
He's not finished with you yet.。
He's not finished with Hong Kong yet.。
He is at work.。
And he's longing and waiting for people to make themselves available to him,。
to just long for him, to long for his things.。
It's like longing for the kingdom.。
It's like longing for the works of Jesus,。
that we see Jesus doing the Bible to unfold in people's lives.。
That's my longing.。
That's my heart's cry.。
That's what I want to see happen.。
But I can't do it out of my own strength.。
You cannot do it out of your own strength.。
We cannot do it by our own wisdom.。
We cannot do it by our own power.。
But we can do it by the spirit of the living God moving and working through us,。
his people.。
So that is what fasting is.。
It's a cry for the kingdom to come.。
And it's us humbling ourselves and making us available to the king of kings,。
saying, "Here I am.。
Use me."。
God loves working when we come to him and fasting.。
He loves us.。
He loves working through his people.。
He loves when we humble ourselves and say, "We need you.。
We want the things of you."。
So that is what fasting is.。
Now, why do people fast?。
I'm going to give five reasons.。
There's more, but I'll just share five.。
The first one is to release the Holy Spirit's empowering presence in their lives.。
Now, you see, Jesus, he was baptized.。
The Holy Spirit came upon him.。
And then in Luke 4, verse 1, we read, "Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit,。
left the Jordan and was led by the spirit into the wilderness."。
So that in the wilderness, he fasted.。
He only drank water, apparently.。
And then in the end, he was tempted and overcame Satan's temptation.。
Now, I want you to note, you know, that it says he was full of the Holy Spirit.。
But then in verse 14, so just right coming out of the fast,。
we read, "Jesus returned to Galilee in the power of the Spirit."。
So there is a shift that Jesus is operating not out of his human strength,。
but in the power of the Holy Spirit because he relied on the Holy Spirit.。
And so if we want to move in the power of the Holy Spirit。
and not out of our own strength, you know, that's one of the reasons why we fast。
because we want and we desire to move in the Spirit。
and not in the flesh, not in our own strength, by his power。
because he's the one that really can change things.。
You know, he's the one that knows what's best.。
And we don't. We have selfishness and things in our heart.。
But if we move by the power of the Spirit, it's amazing.。
So we fast to release the Holy Spirit's empowering presence in our lives.。
Second, we fast to become untangled from sin and experience victory over our lives.。
I'm not going to--I have a lot of passages. I'm not going to read every passage.。
If you want to keep track of this later on, really, you can take a photo.。
But in the Old Testament, there's many times where Israel--。
it's always like they are living right, righteously right, then they sin,。
and they're stuck in their sin of worshipping idols.。
And then they are confronted with their sin. They realize their sin.。
Sometimes a prophet even calls them out on it.。
And then they come before God with repentance and fasting.。
And God entangles them from their sin and allows them to move forward as a nation,。
allows them to move forward as individuals, and that the power of sin is broken in their lives.。
And so when we--so fasting and repentance is also linked in Scripture.。
And so perhaps there's a sin that keeps resurfacing.。
You know, even when we're Christian, there's sins that just don't seem to be going away.。
They keep popping back up in our lives.。
And so when we fast, we can also ask God to entangle us and give us victory from sin, over sin.。
The third reason we fast is to become more alert and receptive to the Holy Spirit's leadership.。
And so in Acts that--we're going to read this passage in a second--。
the church is gathering in Antioch.。
So the Christian movement, it's brand new.。
You know, it hasn't existed for very long, and it says this.。
"While they were worshipping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said,。
'Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them.'。
So after they had fasted and prayed, they placed their hands on them, and they sent them off.。
And Paul and Barnabas went on to their missionary journeys to plant churches."。
But we fast to be more alert and receptive to the Holy Spirit's leadership in our lives.。
You see, a lot of times we have so much noise in our lives--。
work, family stuff, Instagram, TV, whatever, music, whatever you do.。
We do all sorts of stuff, but a lot of times we're not very tuned in to God.。
But when we fast and worship and we carve out the space,。
we're actually open to what God is doing, and we can receive that.。
We can receive words from God and direction from God.。
And so we fast because we need direction from God.。
This is why we're fasting as a church,。
because we want to be alert and open to the Holy Spirit's leadership.。
We want to hear.。
We don't want to move out of our own wisdom.。
The fourth reason people fast is to seek God's guidance.。
A lot of times we find ourselves at crossroads, or we need direction,。
or there's something difficult to navigate.。
Here in this case, Israel had to navigate--。
had a dangerous journey that they needed to navigate.。
So they fast and they pray and they ask God for wisdom.。
And God answers their prayer and gets them safely to where they need to go.。
So you pray and fast for God's guidance.。
And then finally, we pray and fast to commune with God.。
That is actually the most important thing,。
is to draw deeper in our relationship with God when we fast,。
and just commune with Him, spend time with Him.。
Here in this example, it's the prophetess Anna.。
You know, that's been waiting for the Messiah.。
And it says in Luke 2, verse 37,。
"She never left the temple, but worshipped night and day, fasting and praying."。
So she was communing with God.。
She was worshipping and drawing near to God.。
And so our fasting is also a drawing near to God.。
Just spend time with God.。
Just sit to listen.。
It's not us just talking all the time.。
It's about a relationship.。
You're like, "All of that sounds great.。
I want all of that in my life.。
How do I do it?。
Like, how do we do this?"。
And I want to say one thing to you.。
I don't want to give the impression that this is like fasting makes your wish list magically happen.。
You know, it really is a surrendering and coming before God,。
and then He acts and moves how He wants to act and move.。
But He loves us, and He's good, and He loves giving us good gifts.。
Now, I just want to make that clear.。
But how do we do it?。
So I'm going to have five steps, just simple steps, for how you can enter into this fast.。
Later on, after this, we're going to also share a QR code。
where you can sign up for our WhatsApp communication.。
Through that, you'll get actually a guide that captures a little bit of what's on here。
that you can use to prepare for the fast.。
But let me go through this.。
First step is determine your spiritual purpose for the fast.。
You know, ask the Holy Spirit, "What do you want me to fast for?"。
Actually spend some time praying and asking Him.。
Where do you need God to change?。
Where are things not right?。
We need God to act and move in your life.。
Is there an important decision that needs to be made?。
Is there a need for healing, a problem that requires a resolution,。
or a pattern of sin that needs to be broken?。
What is the Holy Spirit inviting you to personally fast for?。
And it's helpful to do that because then our praying,。
while we're fasting, can be more strategic.。
We actually know what we're focusing on.。
So that's for the personal fast.。
For the corporate fast, our focus is to ask the Holy Spirit to prepare us,。
to equip us, to unite us.。
We really sense it's important for the Holy Spirit to unite us。
between the counties, the English service, and us as a community,。
for us here so we can move forward into what He has for us together.。
To lead us, empower us for the ministry and work that He calls us to do in 2024,。
of just loving and serving the people around us.。
So that is the first step, is determine your spiritual purpose for the fast.。
The second one is choose how long you will fast for.。
Well, we've chosen it's 21 days.。
But if you fast another time, just set a time, start small, build up from there.。
The third step, decide on what you will fast.。
What are you going to abstain from?。
Now, biblically, it is always food in the Bible, as an example.。
And there are different types of fasts, and I'm not going to get into all of them.。
The two most common are the normal fast, which is you fast food and you just drink water.。
The other one is the Daniel fast, where you eat vegetables, you drink water,。
but you don't have wine, you don't have steak, you don't have your candy,。
your dessert, whatever it is that you like.。
So it's very simple.。
So we encourage you, if you want to fast food, to keep it real simple.。
So whether the Daniel fast or skipping a meal a day.。
Like we don't recommend, especially if you've never fasted before, doing a 21-day fast of no food.。
If you want to do that, talk to your doctor first.。
Now, for some of us, maybe there's actually some issues around food.。
And that would actually be distracting while we're fasting.。
Or maybe the Holy Spirit is leading you to fast something else.。
And so I have some questions for you to help you discern what other things you can fast for.。
You know, what activities are crowding out your time with prayer and with God?。
What activities are becoming more important to you than God?。
And what's taking up your time?。
And if we're honest, we do all sorts of things a lot of times, but don't spend very much time with God.。
We spend so much time on Instagram, it's like the doom scrolling, it's like endless.。
We have different things as different people.。
But it's like, what is crowding out your time for God?。
And fast from that.。
And this brings me to the fourth step.。
So it might be Instagram, Netflix, sports news, whatever it is for you.。
So the fourth step is plan how you will spend your time with God.。
Because fasting is not just abstaining from something, it's actually making space for God.。
And this is where I see fasting go wrong.。
Like where a lot of people, for some reason, we love like abstaining from something.。
But then we don't actually spend time with God.。
But if you want to do a Christian fast, it actually involves carving our time with God.。
You can, for example, if you skip a meal, maybe during that time you spend some time with God.。
Reading His Word, worshipping Him, going for a prayer walk, just being still and listening.。
Whatever it is that you're meditating on a scripture.。
But have a plan for how you will spend time with God.。
And I also want to just keep it simple.。
You don't need to break a world record of how long you do this.。
Do something that you can do.。
But have a plan.。
And then the final one is be expectant of God.。
You know, God loves you.。
He is your loving Father.。
And He loves when His children come to Him.。
He loves it.。
He loves meeting us.。
He loves speaking to us.。
He loves providing for us.。
And so we can come to Him in faith.。
We don't have to beg.。
We just ask Him like a child asks a father.。
We just pour the things that are in our hearts out to Him in that way.。
And we ask God to move and to provide.。
So those are the five steps of fasting.。
And as I shared, there's a QR code where you can sign up for WhatsApp.。
And can we have the QR code, please?。
So you can sign up to our WhatsApp community,。
and there you will receive those five steps that I just shared about.。
It's also where you get your 21-day devotional that we've created as a church.。
Every day we're going to be sending out one.。
Some of your community members have written one.。
You might use that for that time that you're going to spend with God.。
Now I want us to take a step back.。
I actually want to invite the worship team to come up at this time.。
And I was thinking what would happen if we actually all would fast,。
if we all would humble ourselves and seek God at the beginning of this year through worship and prayer?。
What would God do?。
What would He do in our hearts?。
How would He move?。
How would He prepare us?。
And then that picture is at the end of 2024.。
That picture of standing there, looking back, and just falling on our knees in worship.。
Because it's so clear that what happened was not something that happened out of our own strength.。
It was God's work.。
That God has worked this year in our lives and in our community's lives.。
Because we have come to Him.。
We said, "Lord, we desire for You to move."。
Because we cried out for the kingdom, for a manifestation of the kingdom to break into our here and now.。
We said, "Lord, we long for that.。
We long for the things that are not right to be said right.。
We long for people to experience healing, physical healing, emotional healing.。
We long for people to be brought into the kingdom that they can experience Your love and Your goodness."。
And so I just picture us at the end of the year, looking back and knowing that this time fasting,。
this time coming before God, God met us and He worked.。
And I want to invite you all to stand.。
And I want to challenge you.。
I want to invite you.。
You know, like I said, we come from different backgrounds.。
Maybe you're like, "Eh, I don't want to fast."。
But I really believe God wants to meet us.。
He wants to work through this time together.。
We get to be encouraged because we get to do it together.。
You're not doing it on your own.。
And I believe that through this fasting, we're going to be able to step in a different way into this year.。
We're not going to be operating out of our own power, but through the power of the Holy Spirit.。
So I would love to pray for you.。
And I want to invite you to stretch out your hands before you just to symbolize just wanting to receive from God.。
So Jesus, we thank You so much that You love us.。
We thank You that we can come to You in prayer and in fasting.。
That You love when we commune with You.。
And I ask that You would take us deeper into our relationship with You.。
That we would experience this year You in a new way that we have not experienced You before.。
I pray that we -- that it would be a move of the Spirit among us.。
We do something special, something beautiful, something fresh.。
I pray for personal breakthroughs, Lord.。
There's stuff where we need You to act now in our own lives.。
I pray that You would move in people's lives, that it would experience You like they have not experienced You before.。
Most of all, Lord, we just want to honor You.。
We just want to do this as I worship to You and say, "We love You."。
And we long for the things that You long for.。
So will You work and move as we come to You in our fasting and prayer.。
I pray all of a sudden, in Your name, Jesus, amen.。
