Pastor Ellison, we thank you that you have put him here。
within our community.。
We thank you for his leadership.。
We thank you for his love for everyone.。
We thank you for him, for his passion to share your love。
and your word with us.。
So anoint his words now we pray,。
and I pray for each of us here that we will receive。
what you have for each of us.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
Amen, over to you.。
- Thank you Jess, and thank you worship team.。
That was amazing, good grief.。
Okay, well, morning everyone.。
If you're joining us online, if you're sitting over,。
good morning to you as well.。
Really glad to be back in the,。
you know, we've had a bit of a renovation,。
sort of like a home edit Vine Church version.。
Thank you, Tim.。
Want to swap mics?。
Okay, good.。
All right, so fresh building.。
I hope you guys feel welcomed back.。
And as Jess said, today is Palm Sunday,。
the day where we remember Jesus riding in triumphantly。
into Jerusalem, crowds worshiping with shouts of hosanna.。
So it's only appropriate that we are welcoming Jesus today。
in our midst as well.。
And so it really is, each time I get to share,。
it's a great honor to be able to share.。
And as Jess said, we've been,。
the theme for this year is intimacy.。
And so hopefully today we're gonna dig a little bit deeper。
into that word.。
We really feel like God's drawing us into intimacy。
with each other, into a relationship with him,。
but that should change,。
that should affect the way we live our life.。
And this passage there really hope will allow us to do that.。
So if we're ready, let's get to it.。
John chapter 15, nine to 17。
is what we're gonna be looking at today.。
You could gather with me or just follow up and listen along.。
John 15, nine.。
As the Father has loved me, so I have loved you.。
Now remain in my love.。
If you keep my commands, you will remain in my love。
just as I have kept my Father's commands。
and remain in his love.。
I have told you this so that my joy may be in you。
and that your joy may be complete.。
My command is this.。
Love each other as I have loved you.。
Greater love has no one than this,。
to lay down one's life for one's friend.。
If you are my friends, you will do what I command.。
I no longer call you servants。
because a servant does not know his master's business.。
Instead, I have called you friends。
for everything that I learned from my Father,。
I have made known to you.。
You did not choose me, but I chose you。
and appointed you so that you might go and bear fruit,。
fruit that will last.。
And so whatever you ask in my name,。
the Father will give to you.。
This is my command.。
Love each other.。
So "Forrest Gump," one of my favorite movies of all time.。
I shared in "Yunlong," I like "Karate Kid,"。
it was the most nostalgic movie I felt like.。
But "Forrest Gump," one of my favorite movies of all time.。
I just love the story, right?。
A very simple man who went on to do great things.。
An all-American football champion, war hero,。
international ping pong star,。
multimillionaire, right?。
The list is endless.。
He did so many amazing things.。
But despite all his achievements,。
the one thing he couldn't get right was his love life。
and his relationship with his childhood sweetheart, Jenny.。
Right, on and off, he keeps on showing love to Jenny。
and she keeps running away.。
And the whole story is based upon。
his relationship with Jenny.。
And there's one particular scene.。
Jenny has come back after running away again for a while。
and she's come back and she's been living in his house。
and they've been having a really good time together.。
It's really sweet.。
They get to reconnect in lots of sweet, different ways.。
And so, he feels like, okay, maybe this is going somewhere.。
And so he decides to propose to Jenny。
so that she will stay this time and let him take care of her.。
But then Jenny rejects the proposal.。
And so Forrest is, of course, very heartbroken, right?。
He doesn't understand.。
Why won't she just stay?。
Why won't this woman that I love so much。
just stay and let me look after her?。
And he says this famous line, okay?。
I'm gonna give you my best Forrest Gump impression.。
Are you ready?。
Okay.。
(clears throat)。
Why don't you love me, Jenny?。
I'm not a smart man, but I love you.。
All right?。
You remember watching that scene?。
Like tears pouring down my eyes, right?。
Crying, crying, crying, all right?。
You felt the pain, right?。
The effort this man had put into loving this woman。
only to be faced with rejection.。
But I also remember thinking this。
when I was watching this.。
Actually, he is a smart guy, actually.。
You know why?。
Because Forrest Gump says he's figured out what love is.。
So he must be a really smart guy,。
because love is actually a really confusing thing.。
Right, we say we love pizza,。
and we say we love our moms, right?。
You don't love pizza the same way you love your mom.。
That'd be really weird.。
So what are we talking about when we use the word love?。
It's hard to define.。
I've always been confused about what this word means.。
I think I was most confused。
just before I got married, I think,。
was when I was most confused about what the word love was,。
which is inconvenient, right, to say the least.。
'Cause that was when I was finding out, you know,。
there's, in our premarital stuff, right,。
there's five love languages, right?。
First time I heard about five love languages.。
Let me remind you, you probably all familiar, right?。
Physical touch, words of affirmation,。
gifts, acts of service, and quality time, right?。
So the basic idea is, you know,。
each one of us receives and presents love。
in different ways, right?。
It's how we show and receive love.。
But this was really weird for me, right?。
Maybe a lot of you guys can relate.。
I know you might have heard this before, right?。
I had no idea there was five love languages.。
And maybe I wasn't the easiest kid growing up, right?。
But the language used at my home。
was threats of beating, right?。
You wanna do this?。
Okay, stop doing that, okay?。
That was the language I was used to when I was growing up.。
So I had no idea there was different languages.。
And when I got married, I thought,。
well, my wife is going to massage me。
while I eat my favorite meal,。
watching the TV that she bought for me。
because I'm such an amazing husband, right?。
That was, we love to eat, amen.。
Did someone amen that?。
Do not amen that, okay?。
No, no, okay?。
What does love really mean?。
Right, it's a question countless songs, movies, poems,。
reality TV shows have tried to answer,。
but we still can't seem to figure it out.。
So in this season of intimacy,。
it's important we get a good understanding。
of what the word love is,。
especially because in church we love to say,。
oh, Jesus loves you.。
Oh, God loves you so much.。
But what does that mean?。
How does it affect us?。
And how does it affect the way we treat each other?。
And so this passage we just read gives us an explanation。
of what we're talking about.。
Jesus loves us and how it should make a difference。
in how we treat each other.。
And I might not be a smart guy either,。
but hopefully by the end,。
we'll be able to see what we mean.。
So let's go back to the passage and see what it has to say.。
And just give us a second.。
Timothy to the rescue.。
This is a brand new sound system,。
which is why we're having some teething issues,。
but hopefully.。
Check, check, check.。
No, okay, hang on.。
Back to this one.。
We'll be okay, right?。
Are we okay?。
We're good, okay.。
Let's just keep going, okay?。
If you need Tim, just come back anytime, all right?。
[audience laughing]。
Verse nine says this.。
As the Father has loved me, so I have loved you.。
Now remain in my love.。
If you keep my commands, you will remain in my love。
just as I have kept my Father's commands。
and remain in his love.。
In the lead up to Good Friday and the lead up to Easter,。
this passage actually records some of the last words。
Jesus spoke to his disciples.。
Before he went to the cross,。
he wants to make sure they understand who he is。
and why he came to this earth.。
He wants to remind them also of who they are。
and reassure them of how he feels about them.。
And the number one thing he wants to reassure them of。
is his love for them.。
He wants them to understand what this love is.。
See, when it comes to love, Jesus is never confused.。
Jesus was always confidently talking about love.。
And Jesus was always confidently showing love to people.。
If you read the Gospels, he was always ready to love.。
During his time on earth, Jesus loved people.。
And the way he loved was radically different from the norm.。
This is why the religious leaders didn't like him very much。
because he loved people that others had deemed。
unworthy of love.。
But I was thinking about this,。
like who taught Jesus to be this way?。
Of course he's the son of God, right?。
But who taught him to be this way?。
Was reaching out to the poor and oppressed,。
maybe growing up with Mary and Joseph,。
something that they taught him, that they instilled in him?。
Did he grow up with his parents,。
going on family mission trips and stuff like that?。
With his brothers and sisters, reaching out to people?。
Did they spend time in the Old Testament。
reading about stories about how God redeemed。
all people into his name?。
We don't really know about Jesus' childhood.。
But it tells us very clearly why Jesus is so confident。
he knows what love is.。
He knows what love is because he has felt。
and experienced it firsthand.。
From the source of love itself in the most purest form.。
Jesus knows he learned how to love。
because he has been loved by the Father.。
And this love that Jesus talks about。
has a very clear definition, right?。
There's no confusion.。
The word that the Bible translators use for love,。
the word that Jesus used for love, okay,。
is the word agape.。
You see, agape is the word that the Bible writers。
chose to represent what Jesus was talking about.。
But this agape love is more than just a feeling.。
Agape love is what Jesus meant when he said,。
"Love the Lord your God with all your heart,。
"with all your mind, and with all your strength."。
Agape love is the kind of love that Jesus was constantly。
demonstrating to his disciples.。
It was the kind of love that moved him into action,。
healing, embracing, teaching those that no one else would.。
It was the kind of love to say crazy things like,。
"Love your enemy, pray for those who persecute you."。
And it was the kind of love that eventually led him。
to the cross to die for humanity.。
In other words, if we wanna know what love is,。
if we wanna know the definition of love,。
the answer is found when we look at Jesus.。
And so when Jesus tells his disciples,。
"So I have loved you," it's not a joke.。
He's not pizza, right?。
It's not something that he's just saying,。
coming to the end of his life,。
and he's getting all sentimental and things like that.。
Jesus loves you.。
And he has done everything possible to show us。
how much he loves you.。
That's our starting point for today.。
And even though it might sound cliche to say this。
on a Sunday service, we have to remind ourselves of this,。
because the truth never goes out of style.。
So let me ask you again, church,。
do you know that Jesus loves you?。
Do you know that he loves you so, so much?。
I hope the answer is yes.。
'Cause if the answer is yes,。
there's a way for you to respond to that love.。
And Jesus says this, "If you know that I love you,。
"remain in my love."。
Okay, wow, that sounds pretty good.。
In fact, it sounds great.。
Do you mean all I have to do is stay in one place?。
I don't have to do anything, just remain in this place,。
and I get loved on all day, right?。
Like a baby being snuggled by his mama.。
Who doesn't want that kind of love?。
But remember this, right?。
Agape is more than just a feeling.。
Agape is love in action.。
Which is why Jesus follows up by saying,。
"If you keep my commands, you will remain in my love,。
"just as I have kept my father's commands,。
"and remain in his love."。
Okay, now, hold on a minute.。
Now it's beginning to sound a bit more like。
what we bargained for, right?。
Because at first it sounded like。
we just have to stay in one place, soak up all the love.。
But now it seems like you're telling me。
that I have to work for it.。
And besides, don't we always say。
that Jesus' love is unconditional?。
So what does he mean by he says, "Remain in my love"?。
Maybe we can explain it this way.。
Yes, it's true.。
God does love you no matter what.。
His love for you is unconditional.。
Nothing you can do will ever change Jesus' love for you.。
But the point is not his love for us.。
The point is whether or not you will choose。
to remain in his love.。
That's the key word, right, remain.。
The word remain is actually written in an active sense,。
okay, an active tense, which is something,。
that means it's happening at the same time.。
This means we have to make a choice.。
We can choose whether or not we want to remain。
in Jesus' love.。
Loving Jesus has to be a conscious choice you make.。
Because if it wasn't, it wouldn't be true love.。
If it wasn't, it wouldn't be true intimacy.。
And so what Jesus is teaching us is if we want to remain,。
like stay in the place of love, then yes,。
there are conditions to that.。
To remain in Jesus' love means we must keep his commandment.。
But understand this, church, right,。
this isn't some kind of manipulation。
that Jesus is trying to control us with.。
If we think about healthy relationships,。
actually all healthy relationships have a sense。
of boundaries, rules, commands that we have to follow.。
Think about a marriage or a friendship。
or a relationship of some kind.。
Even if you're not married, you can probably understand。
that within marriage, right, there are certain rules,。
there are certain commands that we have to obey.。
And if you want to stay in a healthy, loving relationship。
with your spouse or your partner,。
then within that relationship, right,。
you cannot have that relationship with anyone else.。
If you want your marriage to thrive,。
to be all it was meant to be,。
then you have to remain in the commands of your marriage,。
right, to make it a safe place, to show love and honor。
and respect to each other.。
Within this relationship, there should be healthy boundaries,。
rules, and commandments that both partners have to follow.。
Otherwise, trust is broken。
and there wouldn't be any kind of relationship。
in the first place.。
And so it is in our relationship with Jesus.。
Like I said, he's already done everything he can。
to show you how much he loves you.。
But if we want that thriving, healthy relationship with him,。
then we have to keep his commands.。
Now, I think the uncomfortable place,。
at least for me when I was reading this here, right,。
the trigger word also is command.。
Because when we think of command,。
to me, two things come to mind, right?。
First, it sounds a bit like, you know, you're programmed,。
right, I'm old enough to remember。
when I had that first MS-Docs computer at home.。
Did you guys remember that?。
With the black screen, you had to actually type in。
a D-I-R slash W, whatever it was, right,。
and a whole bunch of text would come out on the screen,。
get the floppy, actual floppy disk。
that you've like put into the computer, right?。
But you put in a command into the computer,。
like you're coding these days,。
and then it comes out with a result.。
So it sounds a bit like maybe that Jesus。
is just forcing us to do it.。
We have no choice, he's programmed us this way,。
so we respond in a certain way.。
But on the other hand, also, command sounds a bit like。
something that an evil or an abusive person,。
something like they're trying to force you to do, right?。
Because kind people don't command.。
Kind people use their words and ask nicely, right?。
Command is what your 3-year-old tells you。
in the middle of the night when he says,。
"I'm thirsty, bring me water."。
Okay, that sounds more like a command to me, right?。
We don't have a choice, we're just forced to do it,。
otherwise you'll be punished, right?。
So is that what Jesus is saying?。
No.。
Jesus's commands are not like this.。
He's not trying to program you into intimacy with him,。
nor is he using his commands to be evil or abusive,。
because remember the source of where Jesus's commands。
are coming from.。
It's from a place of love.。
Jesus loves us, he commands us based upon the love。
that he has received from the Father.。
And so whatever he tells us to do,。
it's always gonna be from a place of love.。
And because of this, we can trust, we should trust,。
that following what Jesus has called us to do。
is the best way to live our lives.。
In fact, I would go even further and say this.。
Obeying Jesus is what you were created for.。
Because, check this out,。
the outcome of obeying Jesus's commands,。
the outcome of remaining in his love,。
it's not something that feels you abused,。
manipulated, resentful, right?。
Jesus doesn't force you like a robot,。
but the outcome of following Jesus's command is joy.。
I have told you this, he says,。
so that my joy may be in you。
and that your joy may be complete.。
If you want to live a life that's full of meaning,。
if you want to know what true joy is,。
then follow his commands.。
And the reason why following Jesus's commands。
bring us so much joy is because, like I said,。
this is, I believe, how we,。
this is what God made us for.。
This is what Jesus created us for.。
The best way to live, I'll say it again,。
is to obey Jesus's commands so that our joy be full.。
Notice this, though, church, it says joy.。
Doesn't say happiness, doesn't say excitement,。
doesn't mean the most luxurious, most comfortable life,。
but joy, and joy is different from those things.。
You see, when we hear the phrase joy might be complete,。
it sounds a bit like the most comfortable life。
you can imagine, maybe, right?。
So, complete life of joy means no worries, no cares,。
chilling on a beach with a cold beer,。
in a library with a book, whatever your,。
you know, your picture of serenity is.。
It sounds like it's saying that, but that isn't it.。
Complete joys come, complete joy comes when we live。
how we are called to live, obeying Jesus.。
And when that's the case,。
then there's all kinds of possibilities.。
And yes, there might be some really good, of course,。
but it will almost most definitely include。
walking through some dark and hard and rough places.。
It will most definitely include being rejected by the world.。
In fact, a bit later on, Jesus goes to say,。
"Don't be surprised if the world hates you。
"because it's hated me."。
It will most definitely include making an effort。
to fight back against the darkness and the evil。
and the sicknesses of this world.。
The point is that our joy is not based upon situation。
or circumstances or anything on this earth.。
Our joy is based on the fact that we are doing。
what we were created to do, which is obeying Jesus.。
And if you wanna experience true joy,。
that will never come until we learn what it means。
to follow Jesus' command, to live as he has called us to live.。
Now, luckily for us, he doesn't leave us in the dark.。
He tells us exactly what the expectations are.。
Jesus says this, "My command is,。
"love each other as I have loved you."。
Intimacy with God will always result。
in intimacy with each other.。
To remain in Jesus' love, to keep his commandments,。
the next logical step is that we will love each other.。
See, it all links together.。
Jesus knows what love is because he has felt it。
from the Father, he's experienced it from the Father.。
We know what love is because we have experienced it。
from Jesus.。
Now, our task is to go and love others with that same love.。
To love Jesus is to love each other.。
And the way Jesus has called us to love each other。
is through friendship.。
We are friends of each other.。
We are brothers and sisters of each other.。
We have been called to be friends with each other.。
But this isn't a friendship as the world might define it.。
This isn't friendship that's just based upon。
getting together with some people with similar interests,。
that surface-level relationship we might be used to.。
If this was a way to measure true friendship,。
then I'm friends with the whole of Hong Kong.。
You could literally sit me any time, anywhere,。
I will talk to anybody, okay?。
I love talking to people.。
Okay, but it's a deeper connection than that.。
It means more than that.。
The definition that Jesus gives for friendship。
is far greater.。
Jesus says this, he defines just how deep and fierce。
this friendship that he expects for us to have each other is.。
Greater love, he says, has no one than this,。
to lay down one's life for one's friends.。
So, just to be clear, Jesus is saying that your friends。
are the people that you're willing to die for.。
In that case, our list just got pretty small, right?。
Nathan DeLista, Andrew Gardiner,。
Promise Armstrong, okay?。
I don't think there's many people。
I would be willing to do this for.。
So that Jesus really expect us。
to uphold something so extreme,。
but it shouldn't surprise us that Jesus said this,。
actually, like I said, these are his last words。
to his disciples and his friends.。
He is literally hours away from laying down his life。
for their sake.。
He's hours away from demonstrating。
the most radical, extravagant form of love,。
dying on the cross for his friends.。
So yes, on one hand, I do think this is something。
that Jesus really expects from his followers.。
If we are really to love each other as Jesus has loved us,。
if we mean what we say that we're gonna be Jesus。
to each other, then that means that we love each other。
enough to literally give up our lives.。
The greatest way, Jesus says, to show love for each other。
is to lay your life down for your friends.。
However, and I would even say, thankfully for us,。
here at the Vine Church today,。
in the church in Hong Kong, in our current context,。
hopefully, none of us will ever be able to ask。
to do something drastic.。
I hope we're never placed with that horrendous choice。
of being forced to give up our lives。
and die on behalf of someone else.。
But just because it doesn't have to go。
to that extreme right now,。
we still can apply this to our lives.。
So what does that mean?。
In the everyday way we live our lives,。
what does it mean to lay your life down for one's friends?。
The art behind laying your life down for your friends。
for the sake of others is more about having。
a self-sacrificing nature.。
Laying your life down for your friends in this light。
means that you're willing, perhaps sometimes,。
to deny yourself so that others can have.。
Laying your life down for your friends。
means that you think of others before you think of yourself.。
Laying your life down for your friends。
means that you sacrifice so that others。
might have what they need.。
It's about an attitude, it's about a perspective change。
on how you live your life.。
It's about saying, I'm willing to give up my own rights,。
to give up my own comfort zone,。
to be stretched in my generosity so that others can be free.。
Let me give us some Hong Kong examples.。
Perhaps on a very, this is just like。
basic basement level entry, right?。
Laying your life down at your friends is,。
maybe it's not pretending to be asleep or distracted。
when you're sitting on the bus on the MTR。
and someone more in need of a seat walks on.。
Oh, this is a very Hong Kong problem, right?。
We, a lot of us have selected blindness。
when it comes to this church, right?。
We sit there on the seat and then,。
oh, hopefully no one in this room does that,。
but other people we see, right?。
Someone in need gets onto the bus。
and they just pretend like, suddenly they're sleepy。
and they fall asleep.。
Suddenly they can't get off their phone, okay?。
Give up your seat, you see someone in need.。
Sacrifice a little something for the sake of your friends.。
Or maybe you can even take it a step further。
and be proactive and act out injustice。
and be like, excuse me, don't you have a scene?。
There's a paw paw standing right here.。
Would you like to get up your seat。
so she can have a seat, right?。
It might be a bit scary to do that,。
but that's one way we show our friendship to each other.。
Being friends to each other might be participating。
in some of the neighborhood conversations。
that we've been having as a church.。
Reaching out to the community in Wan Chai,。
telling, getting to know them,。
asking them what their needs are。
and seeing if we can meet them in some practical way.。
Maybe it means volunteering some of your time。
to serve those who are most vulnerable.。
Maybe you could consider to be a foster family。
to care for children who are in need.。
Join our Arise community, join our volunteer team.。
Maybe laying your life down for your friends。
means refusing to let the busyness of the office。
dictate how you live your life.。
But set up healthy boundaries。
so you can set aside time for your family。
and your friends and the people that you love.。
Are we willing to live like this church?。
To live in a self-sacrificial way。
so we're not just living for ourselves,。
we're living to show Jesus' love for other people.。
It's counter-cultural.。
It flies in the face of a city like Hong Kong。
that says gain as much as you can,。
do as much as you can for yourself.。
Do whatever it takes for yourself to succeed.。
But if you really want to remain in Jesus' love,。
if you want Jesus to be your friend,。
if you want intimacy with Him,。
then this is the way we've been called to live.。
Jesus is saying the way I define love and intimacy。
is that you are willing to obey my commands.。
And my command is that you're willing。
to live sacrificially for each other.。
Those who do not are not my friends,。
nor are they friends of each other.。
Verse 14 makes it very clear.。
You are my friend if you do what I command.。
Now again, it sounds very one way right now.。
You know, just follow Jesus,。
just follow Jesus, follow Jesus.。
Well yes, that's part of it.。
But there's also great benefits that come with this too.。
When we are in that deep intimate friendship with Jesus,。
when we are being His love to others around us,。
it also results in honor.。
And benefits, listen to what Jesus says.。
I no longer call you my servants,。
because a servant does not know his master's business.。
Instead, I have called you friends.。
For everything I've learned from my Father,。
I have made known to you.。
This is beautiful.。
Right, if we were just workers and servants of Jesus,。
He wouldn't owe us any kind of apology.。
Yes, He would just simply command us to do things,。
and we would just simply follow.。
But this is a relationship.。
When you enter into that friendship with Jesus,。
He speaks to you, He talks to you,。
He guides you, explains to you,。
He tells you what it means to follow Him.。
He wants to reveal things to you,。
to help you to understand why He's called you to live。
in the way that He's called you to live.。
And this should blow our minds,。
because Jesus chose you to be His friend.。
You did not choose me, but I choose you,。
and appointed you so that you might go and bear fruit,。
fruit that will last.。
Think back to your school days.。
Was there ever a time where, you know,。
or maybe you are the popular person,。
congratulations to you if you are, okay,。
but if not, did you ever think, you know,。
that really popular person。
that you wanted to be friends with, right,。
you just wanted that person to choose you。
to be your friend so much.。
Or maybe you were in PE, right,。
and that dreaded moment where you split off into two teams,。
and there's two captains,。
and they slowly pick one person in each team,。
and the team gets dwindled down until, you know,。
if you're me, I always pick last,。
'cause we're playing basketball,。
and no one wants the short guy on their team, right?。
And so I was never actually picked, I felt like.。
They just ended up with me, okay?。
Like, they were stuck with Ellison, okay?。
Oh, don't cry for me, it's okay.。
But that's not how God chooses people, right?。
This isn't some kind of schoolyard,。
childish popularity contest.。
Jesus has chosen you,。
despite of your insecurities,。
despite of your lack of ability.。
Jesus has chosen you.。
In fact, throughout the Bible, throughout Scripture,。
Jesus always chooses the kind of people。
that no one else would choose.。
God chose Abraham, a pagan, to become a great nation。
that he would bless other nations out of.。
God chose Moses, a coward, to go in front of Pharaoh,。
the most powerful human being on the earth at that time,。
to bring freedom to the Israelites.。
God chose David, a shepherd boy,。
to become one of the greatest kings。
that Israel had ever seen.。
And God chose the prophets.。
If you read through the prophets,。
all of them were messed up.。
So many issues, but yet he chose them。
to proclaim God's word, to bring warning,。
correction, healing, and hope to the nations.。
And so it shouldn't be surprising, right?。
Even when we look at Jesus' disciples,。
they weren't the sharpest tools in the shed either.。
Peter, who was always hot-headed, abrasive.。
Thomas, who doubted Jesus.。
Judas, who even betrayed him for some coins.。
But all of his disciples, excluding Judas,。
went on to establish the church,。
to continue the work that Jesus had called them to do.。
They went on to bear fruit,。
fruit that has lasted to this day.。
Because of what Jesus' disciples did,。
because they remained in his love,。
because they followed his commands。
and were obedient to him,。
because they chose to love each other,。
we have the church today.。
Listen to me, church.。
This is what I'm trying to say.。
Today, now, Jesus continues to choose people。
to be his friends.。
And we have all been chosen to be friends of Jesus.。
Not because of your ability,。
not because of who you are.。
We are not chosen based on some kind of privilege.。
We have been chosen because he has chosen you。
for a purpose.。
We have to cherish this church.。
You have been chosen by Jesus for a purpose.。
And that purpose is to bear fruit.。
You have been chosen by Jesus to bear fruit.。
And if Jesus has chosen you as a friend,。
there is no way your life can be insignificant or pointless.。
He has something for you.。
Your purpose is to bear fruit.。
That's your calling.。
And again, the amazing thing is that can happen。
in so many different ways.。
The gifts, the talents, the things that God has given to you,。
the ways that Jesus has created you,。
you have been chosen to do those things。
so that you will go and bear fruit.。
Fruit that will last.。
That might mean faithfully praying for somebody,。
sharing the gospel with somebody.。
It might mean refusing to give up on someone else,。
that's everyone else has given up on.。
It might mean visiting and connecting with people。
that other people have forgotten about.。
Opening a home, whatever that is.。
The point is that connection and intimacy。
with Jesus always bears fruit in the way we love each other.。
Whether this is in terms of a single life changed。
because we have loved somebody as Jesus has loved us,。
in terms of a single tough decision that you had to make,。
a single task which you had to perform,。
and at that time you might not have seen。
the significance of it,。
but you know that the world is a better place。
because you chose to remain in Jesus' love,。
obey Him, and love others in the same way.。
This is the fruit that will last,。
not just in this age,。
but have an eternal impact on this world.。
This is what we're called to, church.。
And so these should become like the prayers of our heart.。
Finally, Jesus says this,。
if you do this, whatever you ask in my name,。
the Father will give to you.。
Whatever you ask in my name,。
the Father will give to you.。
The point here is not that Jesus is some sort of。
thought machine that if we just have enough faith,。
then we pull the lever and the prizes。
of answered prayers will come out.。
That's not what Jesus is saying.。
But what Jesus is saying,。
because you've been so connected to me,。
because we've been walking intimately。
with love in each other,。
because you've remained in my love,。
and because you've now stepped out in faith。
and chose to love others in the same way,。
we have the same heart.。
The things that break God's heart breaks your heart.。
We're praying for the right things.。
We wanna see the same things that Jesus wants to see happen.。
And so when we're doing these things,。
we have to realize that this is what God wants.。
And so our prayers will be answered。
because we are following in His commandments.。
So when you do these things,。
maybe some questions to consider.。
Are we praying for the right things?。
When we talk to Jesus, have we asked Him,。
what do you want me to pray for, Lord?。
How can I pray for this situation?。
Do we have the mind of Christ when it comes to prayer?。
Are the things that break Jesus' heart。
the same things that break our heart?。
And when we're answering these questions,。
when we're living in His love,。
when we're following Him in intimacy,。
our prayers are answered。
because we're working in connection。
and the power of who Jesus is.。
It's all about yielding your heart to Him,。
allowing Him to work through you at all times,。
for Him to take control of what you say,。
what you think, and what you do,。
to remain in His love.。
And when we do this, you will see your prayers answered.。
You will see Jesus move and work in this world.。
So it's simple, but it's challenging.。
And Jesus wasn't joking when He said,。
all the laws of the prophets hang on this.。
Love the Lord your God with all your heart,。
mind, and strength.。
Love your neighbor as yourself.。
As a community, friends, I pray,。
our prayer is that we would all remain in Jesus' love,。
to be obedient to His commandments,。
so that we can change a world that needs it so badly.。
Remain in His love, reach out to others in that same love,。
so that we can bear fruit,。
fruit that will never lose its purpose,。
fruit that will last from now until all eternity.。
I wonder if you pray with me, church.。
(audience member coughing)。
Perhaps for some of us, like I said earlier in this room,。
that just the first step of remaining in Jesus' love。
has been a big challenge.。
And maybe you found yourself, you know,。
oh yeah, I had that one time,。
or I've never really understood what it was.。
And so it seems scary and seems foreign,。
and you ran away from it, or you've stayed away from it.。
And the first step, like Jess was saying just now,。
is just to take that step toward Jesus.。
He has already chosen you.。
He has already loved you.。
You don't have to be worried if you approach Him,。
He's gonna reject you or say no, or say,。
ah, not for me, not on my team.。
But Jesus has a purpose for you.。
He created you to follow what He wants for you to do.。
And there is so much fruit。
that you're gonna see in your life。
if you choose to remain in Jesus' love。
and be obedient to Him.。
So if you found yourself feeling lost and restless。
and joyless and meaningless with your life,。
come back into His love and stay in that place.。
And as we stay in that place, Jesus, I pray that。
you would help us see the joy in following your commands.。
Even through the toughest of times,。
even when it seems like it doesn't make sense to claim joy,。
Jesus, I pray that we would remain in your love,。
that we would never stray away from it.。
And as we do that, Lord,。
help us to love others in the same way.。
Help us to be friends to each other.。
Help us to be friends in a world。
that so desperately needs friendship and community and love,。
that is so lost and so hungering for this.。
And as we do that, Lord, we bear fruit.。
Lives are changed.。
People are brought from a place of hopelessness to hope,。
of death into life, of darkness into light,。
of sorrow into joy, because we have been obedient to you,。
because we have been friends of you。
and friends to each other.。
So Jesus, continue to walk with us.。
Thank you for being our friend.。
May we be your friends in return。
and be friends to those around us.。
In your name we pray.。
- Church, let's all stand as we respond in worship.。
(gentle music)。
♪ So lonely, there is no one like you ♪。
♪ There is none beside you ♪。
♪ Open up my eyes in wonder ♪。
♪ Show me who you are and fill me with your heart ♪。
♪ And lead me in your love to the world around ♪。
♪ Lonely, there is no one like you ♪。
♪ There is none beside you ♪。
♪ Open up my eyes in wonder ♪。
♪ Show me who you are and fill me with your heart ♪。
♪ And lead me in your love to the world around ♪。
♪ Holy, there is no one like you ♪。
♪ There is none beside you ♪。
♪ Open up my eyes in wonder ♪。
♪ Show me who you are and fill me with your heart ♪。
♪ And lead me in your love to those around me ♪。
♪ And I will build my life upon your love ♪。
♪ It is a firm foundation ♪。
♪ And I will put my trust in you alone ♪。
♪ And I will build my life ♪。
♪ And I will build my life upon your love ♪。
♪ It is a firm foundation ♪。
♪ And I will put my trust in you alone ♪。
♪ And I will not be shaken ♪。
♪ Holy, there is no one like you ♪。
