All right, well, the first time in my life that I heard people, or probably the first。
time I was paying attention, that I heard people talking about God's calling was when。
I was in university.。
There was a men's group and there was this guy, I don't know who he was, but he was there,。
and he was talking passionately about not missing God's purpose, God's calling in your。
life.。
And as he was sharing so passionately about this, I started wondering, does God have a。
calling for me?。
Because truth be told, I hadn't thought much about this.。
And I had no idea what God's calling might be for my life.。
But because he was so passionate and talked about not missing it, I started wondering,。
how do you discover God's calling for your life?。
What does that actually look like?。
And then what if you miss, because he talked about not missing it, I was like, what if。
I miss it?。
Does that mean I live a second-class Christian life?。
Is my life just going to be a mess?。
So I don't know, when you hear about God's calling, what comes to your mind and what。
you're thinking.。
We're probably at different places here in this room.。
So for some of us, maybe you're like me.。
You haven't thought much about it.。
This concept comes and you're like, did I need to think about this?。
What does God want to do in my life?。
And we have no idea what that might be.。
Others of you are like, hey, I know what I'm doing.。
I know what God has called me.。
This is what I'm pursuing.。
That's what I've been working on.。
It's amazing.。
It's incredible.。
Praise God.。
Right?。
That's awesome.。
And when you have that clarity.。
But then there might be others of us, maybe you heard somebody talk like I did, and he。
talked about missing the calling from God.。
And actually this topic has brought anxiety and fear and maybe discouragement in your。
life.。
And so you're like, I've been trying, I've been trying to figure out what God's calling。
is, but I don't know.。
And over time, maybe that's been discouraging and actually a difficult thing.。
So today what we're going to do is I'm going to explore a question with you.。
And the question is, how can I understand and discern God's will in my life?。
What does that look like?。
What does God's word have to say about this?。
And my prayer is that we can gain clarity to what God is saying to us, but also that。
if you're holding anxieties, that God can alleviate them, that he can lift that burden。
off our shoulders.。
Does that sound good?。
Yes.。
Yes.。
Okay.。
I love the support right here.。
Good.。
Well, in order to explore this question, I actually think it's important to define.。
So I've thrown out the word calling and it's easy to talk about things, but if you don't。
define what you're talking about, everybody's thinking something else.。
So I want to talk a little bit about when I talk about calling, what I mean, I'm drawing。
on multiple theologians.。
So a lot of times what they talk about different types of callings, and I think it's actually。
helpful to differentiate.。
So there is what's known as the primary calling, and then there's a specific calling.。
So I want to give you definitions.。
That's a polos up primary calling and specific calling.。
All right, our primary calling is as Christians, is to be in a personal relationship with God,。
to know and love him and to serve others.。
This call is the same for every Christian.。
So that's our primary calling.。
That's what God calls every person to, what God invites every single person into.。
Now our specific calling is our unique mission in the world.。
It's a particular way we love God and serve others through co-laboring with him, contributing。
through our work for the flourishing, the thriving of the world in general and people。
in particular.。
So these two concepts we're going to be working with as I talk through the message, and I。
think they're both important for us today, but we're going to be in the book of Nehemiah.。
And so I want to set a little bit the context for Nehemiah so we know what happened and。
where we're picking things up.。
So Israel, they had consistently sinned and they were brought into exile.。
They were captured or defeated by Babylon and then they were brought into exile into。
Babylon.。
Now, several years later, I think about 70 years later, roughly, Cyrus, the Persian king,。
they conquered the Babylonian empire.。
And once they captured it, actually Cyrus allowed exiles to return home.。
So now Israelites were allowed to return home to Jerusalem, to Judah, to where they were。
from.。
Now this of course was significant because the prophets had prophesied about this.。
And so God's prophets, and so God's word came true.。
What he had said, they were able to return.。
In the book of Ezra, which comes right before Nehemiah, the temple is rebuilt, but some。
stuff remains not taken care of.。
And that is the broken on walls, a broken on city.。
That's where we pick up.。
That's where Nehemiah shows up in the story.。
So let me take you to Nehemiah one, starting with one, it says this.。
The words of Nehemiah, son of Hacaliah, in a month of Kislev in the 20th year.。
While I was in the city deal of Susa, Hanani, one of my brothers came from Judah with some。
other men and they questioned him about the Jewish remnant that survived the exile and。
also about Jerusalem.。
They said to me, those who have survived the exile are back in Providence in great trouble。
and disgrace.。
The wall of Jerusalem is broken down and its gates have been burned with fire.。
When I heard these things, I sat down and wept.。
For some days I mourned and fasted and prayed before the God of heaven.。
I'm going to skip some verses, the prayer, where pick up things at the end of prayer.。
Verse 11, Lord, let your ear be attentive to the prayer of your servant and the prayer。
of your servants who delight in revering your name.。
Give your servant success today by granting him favor in the presence of this man.。
I was cupbearer to the king.。
In a month of Nisan in the 20th year of King Artaxerxes, when wine was brought for him,。
I took the wine and gave it to the king.。
I had not been sad in his presence before.。
So the king asked me, why does your face look so sad when you are not ill?。
This can be nothing but sadness of heart.。
I was very much afraid, but I said to the king, may the king live forever.。
Why should my face not look sad when the city where my ancestors are buried lies in ruins。
and his gates have been destroyed by fire?。
The king said to me, what is it you want?。
Then I prayed to the God of heaven and I answered the king, if it pleases the king and if your。
servant has found favor in his sight, let him send me to the city of Judah where my。
ancestors are buried so they can rebuild it.。
Then the king with the queen sitting beside them asked me, how long will your journey。
take and when will you get back?。
It pleased the king to send me, so I set a time.。
Wow, so much happening there.。
I want us to think through this story from the perspective of specific calling, the unique。
mission that God gives us.。
And so as we're looking at this, and I chose a story, let me rephrase this.。
I chose a story because I think it's important for us when we try to understand how does。
God call us that we have examples to look at so we can make sense how God speaks to。
people.。
And now every calling is different.。
It doesn't all go the same way, but nonetheless it's helpful.。
So we're going to look at Nehemiah and the specific calling that he received.。
So let's unpack what actually happens here.。
So Nehemiah, he hears news.。
He hears news that the walls in Jerusalem, they're in ruins and the city gates have been。
burned down.。
And that touches him so deeply that he actually has to sit down and he weeps and then he mourns。
and he fasts and he prays.。
Now that's a really strong emotional response to what happens.。
So the question is why does Nehemiah react so strongly to what he's hearing?。
Now the first thing he, as I was reading, one of the things that you heard is that while。
Nehemiah lives in Susa, which is in the Persian empire, which is modern day Iran, and that's。
quite far away from Israel and Jerusalem, but his ancestors are from Jerusalem.。
And so this is a personal matter.。
Like this really concerns him.。
But we also need to understand what it means for an ancient city for the walls and the。
gates to be broken down.。
Now basically what this means is anyone can come, they can raid your town, they can raid。
the city, they can take whatever they want.。
You do your harvest.。
And then your neighbor's like, oh, they did their harvest.。
Why don't we come and raid the city and take everything that they worked for?。
And so it means you're extremely vulnerable.。
You have no security.。
And it's not a condition under which people, under which a community can thrive.。
This is a deeply troubled community.。
And so Nehemiah, his heart is stirred.。
And I would say that the beginning of Nehemiah's specific calling, even though we're not told。
this in a specific way, but that it begins when Nehemiah is deeply touched and moved。
by this news, when God stirs his heart.。
So often God uses our deep empathy for people and a connection to a place to ignite and。
mobilize us to partner with him in this cultivating, redeeming, restoring, and healing work.。
That we see something, that we notice something, that we hear something that deeply touches。
and moves us.。
And we want to see this changed.。
We desire for that to be fixed.。
And it's something that starts occupying our mind, our imagination.。
And I wonder when you think of Hong Kong, when you think of your generation, when you。
think of your organization, when you think of your family, what are some things that。
you see that need fixing?。
What are some things where God might be stirring your heart?。
Where he's moving?。
Now I have some examples of what this might look like, what might ignite our calling,。
our specific calling.。
Maybe you look at the community and you see vulnerable people that are needing support.。
Maybe there's policies in place that are unfair to them.。
And you see that and you just want to do something about it.。
You want to see that changed.。
Maybe you're a teacher in the education sector and you see a group of students that are being。
left behind.。
But they're not incapable students.。
They're just not set up for success.。
And you want to see that changed.。
It breaks your heart.。
And you want to see that changed.。
You're not going to accept that.。
Maybe it's in your workplace where there's a poor team culture and it's just not honoring。
to anyone.。
And you want to see that culture changed.。
Maybe it's in your own family and there's no good routines and you want to see some。
routines established that bring and draw your family closer together.。
Maybe there's processes that you see that are inefficient.。
Does anyone get annoyed with inefficient processes?。
Yes?。
So when you notice them, does your mind sometimes go to like, "They should do this."。
So if you're not, everyone sees those things.。
But when you see them, maybe there is something that God is inviting into, right?。
Because you might be the person who is in a position who is able to change something.。
Service.。
Sometimes people are served poorly and you want to see that changed.。
Maybe they're being poorly served in the healthcare sector.。
Maybe they're being poorly served in a business.。
And you have a heart for that and you want to see that transformed.。
Or maybe the environment.。
Maybe it's a hazardous work environment.。
Maybe it's about the natural environment and you want to see something changed and transformed,。
a practice that is destructive and it doesn't let you go.。
And all of these things can be ways in which God ignites something in our hearts and ignites。
our specific calling that we perhaps are meant to move into and start working into.。
Now I want to say, of course we can be stirred and that doesn't have to mean we're called。
to specifically that that is our mission for life and that's what we're meant to do.。
But a lot of times it starts that way.。
Does that sound good?。
Yeah?。
Makes sense?。
All right, cool.。
Let's continue.。
So how did Nehemiah respond to this news that he heard about the broken walls and the burned。
down city gates?。
Well, he responds with prayer.。
He prayed and fasted, it says for some days, so this was not, when we read it sometimes。
it seems like it's a short prayer but actually he prayed over a period of time.。
And somewhere while Nehemiah was praying, actually his specific calling moved into focus.。
And isn't that interesting a lot of times when we pray that things move into focus,。
that things become clear.。
Maybe there's unclarity about a relationship or unclarity about a circumstance and we start。
praying and praying and praying and then suddenly God brings things into focus.。
He gives us clarity.。
And I want to show you how we can see that Nehemiah got clarity about his specific calling。
and we see that in verse 11.。
This is the end of the prayer that Nehemiah prayed.。
And we can see that there he prays for success.。
Give your servant success today by granting him favor in the presence of this man.。
So he's praying for success and favor because he knows he wants to ask if he can take on。
this project of rebuilding the walls in Jerusalem.。
But he also knows that there are some barriers, there are some challenges that he needs to。
overcome in order to do that.。
So Nehemiah asked God.。
Now Nehemiah was uniquely positioned but also uniquely qualified to do this work.。
Now we're told he's a cupbearer.。
A lot of times we think cupbearer, it's tasting the wine so the king doesn't get poisoned。
and that is true.。
But cupbearers were highly administrative people.。
It's like the guy that has an MBA from Harvard or Stanford, right, and is able to manage。
very complex things.。
So kings, they assigned, for example, managing financial accounts to cupbearers.。
Guess what?。
Rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem is a complex project that needs good administration for。
that to happen.。
Well so the specific calling, it fits with who Nehemiah is, with the God-given talents。
that he has given him.。
So God-specific calling often works this way.。
It's our gifts, talents, and circumstances.。
This certainly was true for Nehemiah.。
Now theologian Gordon Smith, he says this, "God's call on our lives is consistent with。
who God made us to be."。
Now I do want to give a little caveat.。
Of course it's possible that God calls us for a moment to do something we're not gifted。
and good at, but generally God calls us consistently with the gifts and talents he has given us。
to put them to use, to put them to work.。
He doesn't work against how he created you.。
And so when we're trying to discern our specific calling, part of it is really gaining self-awareness,。
who God made us, and understanding who we are as a person, what our gifts and talents。
are, what our experiences are.。
So as you're trying to discern your calling, part of the process is to grow in self-awareness。
who God has made you.。
And this usually comes into focus over time.。
This is not a one-second thing.。
It's a process of discovering, of trying things out, of failing, of learning, of succeeding,。
of other people saying, "Wow, you're really good at this."。
And then you do something else, like I did one time when I refereed a basketball game。
and nobody ever asked me to do it again.。
Because I did a horrible job.。
I had both sides angry at me.。
It's also a way of figuring out who you are, is through failing, right?。
And it's like these stacked up failures that God also gives us clarity about who we are.。
So don't ever ask me to referee your basketball game or any other game for that matter.。
But let me say a little bit more about the circumstances, because our circumstances also。
matter when we're trying to discern our specific calling.。
Because we have limitations, whether it's our relationships or our external circumstance。
over which we have absolutely no control.。
So Nehemiah actually, it was an external circumstance over which he had no control, which was he。
was employed by the king of Persia.。
So he couldn't just go up and leave.。
But there's even more.。
Because this specific king had made a decree that actually stopped the rebuilding of Jerusalem.。
Ezra 4.21 says this.。
So this is the decree.。
"Now issue an order to these men to stop work so that the city will not be rebuilt until。
I so order."。
So that means that Nehemiah, he's trying to, he's praying for favor because he needs the。
king to reverse his decision.。
He wants the opposite of what the king had decided.。
That's kind of a scary thing.。
But he knows that this is a God thing, that God, if God is calling him, if God is giving。
him a specific calling, he can open the door.。
And God does.。
And it's amazing.。
So the open and closed doors we encounter in our circumstances can also serve as guides。
in discerning our specific calling.。
Because the circumstances matter.。
God providentially places us in the spaces where he can use us.。
And he can open doors and he can also shut doors.。
So we have to also be honest about our reality.。
What is your reality?。
Now I'm going to stop here in a sense of unpacking the story of Nehemiah, but I want to share。
a little bit about why I chose this story.。
And there's two reasons.。
The first one is because Nehemiah didn't have this extraordinary revelation.。
Like Moses in the burning bush when God called Moses, or like the Apostle Paul when he's。
on the road to Damascus and there's blinding lights and he encounters the risen Jesus.。
But a lot of times when we think about our calling, that's what we want God to do, right?。
We want this like extraordinary, like burning bush moment or like the blinding lights on。
the street.。
And we're like, okay, God, I know what to do.。
But the reality is that for most people, that's not how God calls us.。
Now he can, and I'm even, wouldn't be surprised if God has called somebody here in this way.。
But for most of us, it's actually through a process where he just speaks in our everyday。
life and reveals things and touches our hearts and gives us clarity as we pray and puts things。
in the focus.。
So it's a process.。
It's a process over time of discerning what God is inviting us into.。
And what's interesting is that actually this opening of Nehemiah, it takes place in a four。
month span because it talks about Nehemiah 1.1 that it was in the months of Kislev and。
then in Nehemiah 2 when it talks about the month of Nisan.。
That's four months apart.。
So again, a lot of times when we want to discern our calling, we want something quick, like。
even settle it today.。
Praise God if he does.。
But most of the time it's going to be a process of discerning, of trying things out, of walking。
through open stores, of getting some doors shut, of failing at some things and also succeeding。
at others.。
That God brings our specific calling into focus.。
Now the second reason why I chose a Nehemiah story is because in church there's a tendency。
to always talk about pastors and missionaries when it comes to calling.。
And of course I was so tempted to do it because I'm a pastor.。
So I want to talk about my calling and how I'm called.。
But Nehemiah, he's a businessman and he has a businessman calling, he does businessman。
administrative work because God calls us not all into church work and missionary work,。
but he just calls us into work all over the place.。
And so I also thought it was important to choose this example because that's actually。
for most of us how God calls us.。
You know, he has something for us in our places of work.。
He has something for us in community.。
And so that's why I chose this.。
One thing I love too, if you read the story of Nehemiah is that over and over again, God。
provides for him as he carries out a specific calling and he makes Nehemiah's work fruitful.。
God makes our work fruitful.。
Last week, Pastor Chapman talked a lot about how there's a lot of challenges in our work。
and that is true.。
But when we serve God, when we live for his glory, when we do his work for him, yes, there。
will be frustration.。
Yes, it's not all fruitful, but God makes your work fruitful and he can do immeasurably。
more than you can ask or imagine through your work.。
So I want to encourage you with that.。
But now some of you are sitting here, okay, great.。
Thank you, Tim.。
This was wonderful, but I still have absolutely no clue how to discern or understand things。
around my calling.。
This brings us back to the question, you know, how should I understand and how can I discern。
God's calling in my life?。
So I've asked Enoch to come and actually share.。
Let's welcome Enoch.。
I've come and asked him to share just his whole processing around calling.。
So super excited to have you.。
Take it from here.。
Thank you, Pastor Tim.。
Hi, everyone.。
I'm Enoch.。
I'm so grateful for the opportunity to share my experience here.。
I think searching for our callings can be very frustrating sometimes.。
For me, at least, a lot of times I do not know what is my calling.。
And there's been so many moments I've asked God to give me some kind of like mission statement,。
you know, just give me some direction.。
But most of the time, the answer won't be like what I hope for.。
And that uncertainty of like not knowing sometimes make me wonder, am I wasting my life?。
Am I not significant enough for calling?。
And sometimes even when I feel that I know my calling, there are times that I'm still。
saying guessing it, and because of things that are not going as smoothly as I hope it。
would be.。
And I would like to share a small episode of my experience.。
And today, it was like quite a few years ago, I feel God called me to nurture a group of。
young people to walk alongside with the marginalized people in Hong Kong and to serve them.。
And I was so excited when I got an offer, a job offer in a university, and it's exactly。
what I hope for.。
It gives me a good position to work with these young people.。
And I was so excited.。
And I went for that offer.。
And I started doing this job.。
A few months later, one day, my boss called me into a room and told me that the higher。
ups has decided to close down the program that I'm responsible for.。
And then and I will be reassigned to some other position soon.。
And I and at that point, I was so frustrated.。
And I couldn't help asking God, did I hear you wrong?。
Is it only my idea like to nurture this group of young people?。
And even so, I was even asking God, are you playing with me?。
Are you just bring me here just to take away the reason I'm here?。
So in my frustration, I pray and I sense God saying two things to me.。
One is that he told me, remember, your boss is not your ultimate boss.。
I am your boss.。
And the mission is that I gave you the mission and everything is in my control.。
And if the vision is really from me, then you're going to accomplish it without this。
program.。
So you have to trust me.。
This is the first thing.。
And the second thing is that you have to stop worrying about whether this program is going。
to continue or not.。
You have to focus on what I have entrusted you at this moment, which is the students。
and what you can do with them.。
So you just focus on that and do your best, be faithful, and then I'll take care of the。
rest.。
And I still remember feeling a bit silly for like doubting, but at the same time, I'm strangely。
empowered at the same time.。
And I also feel very grateful for the clarity he has given me, even though the answer may。
not be like, OK, the program is going to continue, you'll be fine and everything.。
So interestingly, over the next three years, I was told this project is going to be closed。
multiple times.。
So every time I was concerned, every time I'm concerned, a little less maybe, every。
time, but the program was still running by the time I left the job.。
So I think it's a wonderful-- yeah, looking back, it seems really funny and silly to worry,。
but at the time, I was still very concerned and worried.。
And I'm also grateful that I could see some real change in my students.。
Some told me that the program has actually influenced their career choice.。
Some has initiated their own project after joining the program, serving the community.。
I'm so grateful God has worked in their lives.。
And thinking back, I realized that I was unconsciously replacing God with the idea of calling.。
Sometimes calling gives us a sense of certainty.。
It gives us a sense of meaning that we should really actually get from our relationship。
with our God himself.。
The outcome of calling isn't the most important thing.。
Our partnership with God is the most important thing.。
I think calling is really to draw our hearts close to God and to become more like him in。
whatever that we do.。
It's not like what we do doesn't matter because it's actually where God wants us to partner。
with him and also is to influence the people he has placed around us.。
But we cannot let the outcome of our calling to replace our relationship with God.。
I think at the end of the day, it's really important that we understand and we partner。
with God.。
I'm going to go off script a bit here because just now in the worship, I sense God is telling。
me that the world has somehow convinced many of us, myself included, that our life is only。
a small gear in this whole machine to keep the whole machine going and we are not important。
enough.。
Sometimes we think that calling is only for gifted people, talented people, and we are。
not one of those people.。
This is really a lie and God's heart is broken that we believe this lie because this is really。
not what he has created us for.。
He really wanted to partner with us and to fulfill the specific callings that he has。
for us.。
I hope this story can encourage you to keep searching for his calling and also stay in。
the partnership with him.。
So thanks so much and back to you.。
Brilliant.。
Thank you so much, Enoch.。
I feel like going off script now too.。
Actually I will go a little bit off script.。
So the one thing that I thought was interesting is I do have the sense that actually there。
is a lot of discouragement around this topic of calling and that we do feel inadequate。
or that God doesn't have something for us or we think it needs to be like a Nehemiah。
specific way.。
But the specific calling, the work that God calls us to co-labor with him, to partner。
with him, it can take place in any sphere of life.。
It can be you're a stay-at-home mom and you invest in your children and you raise them。
up to be incredible human beings.。
That is a specific calling that God gives the people in seasons.。
Or maybe it is in your workplace and just creating a safe environment for people around。
you that honors God, that brings them glory and God wants to use you.。
So I think it's a really important word.。
We shouldn't minimize the things that God is leading us to do, not God asks us to do.。
Because God wants to work immeasurably more than all you can ask and imagine through when。
you serve him, when you co-labor with him.。
Does that sound good?。
Yes.。
Yes.。
All right.。
So now going back to my script.。
One of the reasons that I'm so grateful for your sharing is that it's authentic.。
One thing I want us, our faith community to be an authentic community where we can talk。
truthfully about our experiences.。
And there has been frustration in this journey and there has been discouragement for Enoch。
along the way.。
But what I love is also how God spoke to you about focusing on him, on your relationship。
with him and not getting so caught up in the specific calling or the outcome of your work.。
It's like, "Hey, if I call you, I'll help with the outcome."。
And I think for a lot of us who are sitting in anxiety and fear when it comes around this。
topic of calling, actually it's good to go back to our primary calling.。
And our primary calling is to be in relationship with God, to love God, to know God and to。
serve those around us.。
And so every one of us can know our primary calling.。
Every one of us can live into this.。
And if the specific calling has been a place of anxiety, then I believe that's what right。
now is maybe what God is inviting you into, to draw close to him in your relationship。
with him, to love him.。
And then to just serve those around you.。
Maybe you're not sure what the big theme is, but you're just loving and serving those around。
you.。
And if we think of it from God's perspective, our heavenly father's perspective, what does。
he care about?。
And you're also talking about it a little bit.。
He cares that you have a good relationship with him and that you are growing and maturing。
and becoming the person that God has created you to be.。
That's the father's heart for you.。
And so again, if there's anxiety, let's just focus on our primary calling.。
And I believe that when we do, that God actually meets us in our anxieties and fears and that。
they can melt away over time and he can do some healing work.。
But I think at some point in time, we do come back to the specific calling.。
And so you may be still wondering, like, well, what do I do?。
How should I think about this?。
And I want to share with you a quote from John Mark Homer.。
And he says this, that was quite a few pages off here.。
So calling isn't something you choose, like who you marry or what house you buy or what。
car you buy.。
It's something you unearth, you excavate, you dig out and you discover.。
And I love that.。
That's how we discover our calling.。
It's like excavation work.。
It's understanding who God has made you, what your giftings and talents are, what opportunities。
he's presenting to you.。
And he suggests then for us to explore that through a series of questions that we actually。
ask ourselves, questions that can help us discern and reflect on who we are and what。
God might be doing.。
And I know our coaches here in the house, they're getting excited about questions.。
So let me share with you five questions that can help you in discerning your call.。
The first one is what stirs your heart deeply?。
What keeps you up at night?。
That's the first one.。
Nehemiah was stirred deeply by what happened to Jerusalem.。
Second thing, what has God uniquely equipped you to do?。
What are you good at?。
What are you not good at?。
Like being a referee.。
Right?。
Third one, what is your world need that you could address?。
When you look at systems, at people, at issues around you, what can you fix?。
What can you change?。
Fourthly, where do you see open doors?。
What are your circumstances?。
Where has God providentially placed you and places you can walk through?。
And then finally, what is the Holy Spirit stirring in you?。
Is there a burden that he gives you about a group of people, about a certain circumstance。
that will just not let you go?。
Now our specific calling, it's not about self-fulfillment.。
A lot of times when we think about that, that's a temptation to go into self-fulfillment.。
It's about serving the world in general and people in particular.。
And a lot of times that means sacrifice.。
But it also means understanding that our sacrifice and some pain in the journey and some suffering。
in the journey is so worth it because of what God is going to do through it.。
And we can keep that big picture and view of what God wants to do.。
So what is the cross that Jesus is asking you to pick up?。
Now I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
And some of us are still like struggling with this idea maybe with specific calling and。
I just want to encourage you.。
Try things out.。
Pray.。
Give things time.。
Fail.。
Fail plenty.。
I know that's a very hard thing to say in Hong Kong culture, but it's okay because through。
that God continues to sharpen and to bring in the focus who he has made you to be and。
how he wants to work through you specifically in this world.。
And so don't be discouraged.。
Don't be afraid to try and enjoy your relationship with your heavenly father while you're at。
it.。
Right?。
Do you guys feel encouraged?。
Yeah?。
Well, I want to pray for us.。
And so perhaps your invitation that the spirit has been stirring is maybe that primary calling。
of just drawing closer to our heavenly father, of knowing him, of loving him, and just getting。
back to the basics.。
And then for others of us, maybe there was something that sparked something where maybe。
there is something here.。
Maybe there is a specific thing here that God is saying to me that even through this。
message.。
And I just want to invite you right now just to talk to God and to become aware of maybe。
what's been happening here.。
And I'll just give a minute for that.。
And we'll just invite the Holy Spirit to come and for us just to speak to Jesus.。
And then I'll say a prayer over us.。
So let's just pray for a minute here.。
Heavenly father, I thank you so much for every single person here that you love, that is。
created in your image, in whom you poured gifts and talents into.。
I thank you that you've called us to be in relationship with you, to know you and to。
love you.。
And I pray that you help us to enjoy that and to grow in our knowledge of you and in。
intimacy with you.。
But Lord, I also pray that you give us courage to respond to what you're saying to us, to。
what we are discerning and to step forth with courage and to try things out and to follow。
you boldly and to not dismiss areas where you're inviting us to partner with you.。
And I pray that you would grow us in clarity as a community in our specific callings.。
Now you use us powerfully in all these different spheres throughout the city that you've placed。
us in.。
And it is you incredible redeeming, restoring, healing and cultivating work.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
I pray all that in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
