One more.。
That was very convincing.。
Well, hey, listen, I want to talk about the elephant in the room.。
I cut my hair.。
We've noticed.。
Yeah, we've noticed.。
And in this hair cutting adventure, I've heard some rumors.。
So we're going to address the rumors today.。
There have been some speculation as to why I cut my hair, and I want to make sure before。
I dive into God's word that I am up front with you and we clear the air.。
So the first rumor is that it was a wig.。
Y'all, listen, this was real hair.。
It took me four to five years to grow it.。
Okay, I've got pictures of the whole journey.。
They were natural dreads.。
They were beautiful, but I did cut them.。
So they were real, not a wig.。
Second rumor, this one tickles me, was that I'm going through a midlife crisis.。
Y'all, come on.。
I'm younger than Allison, right?。
Like, come on.。
I'm still like vibrant.。
You know, I'm 34.。
I've got so much left ahead of me.。
So no, I did not cut my hair because I'm going through a midlife crisis, and my hair is real.。
It has not been a wig, but maybe it's not a bad idea if I want to bring it back.。
Okay, Emma says no.。
Whatever.。
Let me explain to you the reason I cut my hair, because it's, you know, just so you。
know, because I think once we know that, we can stop worrying about that and actually。
focus on God's word.。
My wife and I had a daughter back in June this past year, little Remy, and I love being。
a dad.。
This is my second kid.。
My first one is Elias, the perfect little boy.。
And I have the perfect little girl, Remy.。
And I am about 99,000% convinced that my daughter thought my dreads were her father.。
Let me explain this to you.。
So I, you know, her being tiny and a baby, you know, I look over her and I see her, and。
every time I would see her, I would talk to her, and I would be animated, and I would。
smile, we'd be making eye contact.。
And I realized at some point that actually I'm making eye contact with her, but she's。
looking a little higher.。
And so I would like swing my dreads and just watch her eyes go there, and I'd like move。
over here.。
And my dreads were quite long.。
And I realized she loved my dreads.。
She thought her father were these beautiful dreadlocks that I had.。
And I refuse to let anything come between me and my daughter.。
So I cut them.。
And that's the story.。
So they're gone.。
They're not coming back.。
Remy now makes...。
Someone asked me this after the first service.。
They're like, "But does she actually make eye contact with you?"。
Yes, she does.。
She does make eye contact with me, and all is well again in the Armstrong household.。
But all three of us, my son, my wife, and I are adjusting to now being a family of four.。
Having a little girl has been fun.。
My son, he's three years old, and he is learning, man.。
He's never had a sibling before.。
He's the oldest, so he's learning.。
He's trying to figure out, "How do I engage?"。
He doesn't know, "How do I play with a tiny little baby?"。
He goes to school.。
He has all the energy in the world, and she's just like, "Man."。
So it's a bit of a journey for him.。
And I realize that he's been watching me.。
He's been watching me when I didn't realize he was watching me.。
He's been learning from me.。
He's been spying on me.。
A few weeks ago, I walked into our living room, and Remy's in her space, and I see,。
but I hear Elias over her little Moses basket.。
He's like, "How you doing, my little girl, girl?"。
In a high-pitched voice, and he's got his nose next to her nose, and he's tickling her。
feet, and he's doing all my mannerisms.。
And I'm like, "Yo, dude is stealing."。
First of all, "Girl, girl," that's what I say, okay?。
Kayla, my wife, is girl because she's number one, the number one woman in my life, so she's。
my girl.。
Remy is my second most important woman in my life, girl, girl, so she's my girl, girl.。
Elias doesn't know this.。
He's three years old, but he's referring to her as his girl, girl, and I'm just getting。
a little bit jealous and annoyed as a father.。
Like, pray for me.。
It's a whole thing.。
But I'm realizing he's catching on to the things that we are doing, and I'm not trying。
to be an example.。
He just happens to learn from me, and he's listening, and this is slightly problematic。
because he's in school now.。
And so every so often, he takes the things that he hears from home to school, so I'm。
already a pretty holy man, but just know I am being even more holy.。
When I stub my toe, I quote scripture just to make sure that Elias doesn't say anything。
inappropriate, and we get emails at small world.。
But I am now properly recognizing the impact and the example that I am to my son.。
You know, my wife and I are both pretty big examples for him.。
He copies what we do.。
He listens when we know he's listening.。
He listens when we don't know he's listening, and he's repeating after us, and we're pretty。
much the biggest example in his life.。
Now he, one day, will be the biggest example in Remy's life because he's the oldest, right?。
Are there any firstborns here?。
Anyone who's a firstborn and have siblings?。
No, no, only children.。
Just firstborn with siblings, right?。
So I'm the firstborn of three, right?。
My brother Jeremy is great but not as cool.。
My sister Jasmine's great but nowhere as cool.。
I'm the oldest, and I remember growing up, my mom, I can still hear it to this day.。
My mom would be like, "Now be careful what you do because, you know, Jeremy is watching。
you.。
He's looking up to you as an example."。
And actually, I didn't share this in the first story, but let me just tell you guys what。
kind of example I've been to my brother.。
So I played baseball.。
I'm five years older, just so you know.。
There's plenty of space.。
I played baseball.。
My brother played baseball after me.。
I started playing guitar self-taught.。
Jeremy started playing guitar self-taught.。
I ended up marrying a white woman.。
My brother ends up marrying a white...。
Like he literally has copied every single thing.。
I have been such an example, you guys.。
It's been a good time.。
Jeremy, I love you if you ever watch this, for the record.。
But yeah, so the way that he operates, my son will have to be an example at some point。
to his sister, Remy.。
And examples are super helpful.。
Having a guide, having someone who has gone ahead of you, who can give you a bit of a。
template, who you can look at when things are challenging is helpful because times do。
get challenging for us.。
Things are tricky, and sometimes we don't know the answer.。
And rather than trying to blaze the trail yourself and figure it out, we have templates。
in life.。
We have examples.。
And as we sit in this second week of our forgiveness series, I want to pretty much premise everything。
on the idea that Jesus was perhaps the greatest example of what forgiveness looks like.。
If we want to know what forgiveness looks like, perhaps the first step is to be like。
my son and to watch, to analyze, to examine the things that Jesus did to truly be able。
to understand what forgiveness really is.。
It's not something that we've created in the 21st century.。
We don't have to set up how to forgive.。
Actually, we have a pretty good template of the most powerful example of forgiveness found。
in Christ.。
Extreme and radical forgiveness is meant to serve as a template to the church on how we。
ought to forgive one another because forgiveness is a hard thing.。
Forgiveness is not an easy thing.。
I think sometimes we get the misconception that we should just like do it.。
It's a pretty challenging thing, especially if we're going to forgive the way Jesus forgave.。
No, we've got to be able to see him, hear him, examine his example to be able to draw。
strength and guidance on how to forgive.。
Perhaps there's no better place to really set up the forgiveness of Jesus than with。
the idea of the gospel.。
The gospel is this, that Christ offers forgiveness to all, to all people for all things.。
He offers, he's put on the table the chance for forgiveness.。
All who have sinned and have fallen short, who's not been enough, who've messed up, this。
forgiveness ends up being the fabric of our salvation.。
It ends up paving the pathway for our reconciliation.。
It ends up being the foundation of our redemption.。
This is powerful forgiveness.。
Based off of what I've heard from this community, we need powerful forgiveness when it still。
hurts and you still carry the hurt of the offense that was done to you.。
You need powerful forgiveness when you still have to look the other person in the eye who's。
wronged you painfully or still live in that space.。
You need powerful forgiveness when the words spoken over you still mark and direct you。
to today.。
You need a powerful forgiveness, not some simple stuff.。
You need the powerful stuff.。
And luckily enough, we have the example of Jesus and the kind of forgiveness he gives。
us as a template of something to look at.。
When your offense cuts deep, you have the powerful forgiveness of Jesus as your template.。
So I think it's best that we examine the gospel and the tenets of it because it will provide。
us both a blueprint and a guide to give us strength in the kind of forgiveness that we're。
looking into.。
So the scriptures are quite clear on what the gospel is, but I think for most Christians,。
we don't use the word gospel every day.。
It's just not a conversation piece.。
You don't use the word gospel when you're talking to your friends.。
So probably for that reason, we don't properly understand all of what it means.。
Just a way for us to understand the word gospel.。
I'm not going to go into all the Greek around it, but the simple Greek translation of the。
word gospel is the phrase good news.。
So rather than thinking of the gospel of Jesus and it just being kind of like church jargon,。
think the good news of Jesus.。
Something good has happened and we are in response to that good news.。
When we say the gospel of Jesus sets you free, it's the good news that he offers that sets。
you free.。
Gospel is good news.。
For the Christian, it's the gospel proclamation and the inauguration of the reality of the。
good news of Jesus.。
And that good news is pretty clear.。
It's that this because of Jesus, if we now will confess our sins, he is faithful and。
he is just to forgive us of all our sins and he will cleanse us from all our unrighteousness.。
So gospel, the good news is that we can be forgiven, that we can stand forgiven and are。
new.。
And I know a lot of this probably isn't going to be new information for you.。
I'm not trying to teach you anything new today.。
I'm hoping that as we examine the gospel, as we remember what it is that Christ has。
done for us and what it means to live in that gospel, that God will just shed light on it。
for us to properly understand what these terms are and what it means for us.。
So we're going to examine it closely today.。
We've been forgiven.。
Our sins are not just canceled, but our debt is paid.。
The scales have been balanced.。
God remains a God of love and of justice simultaneously.。
And we have to understand the elements and the tenets of what this gospel means.。
So in one column, you've got sin.。
In the other column, we're going to talk about what exactly Jesus did for us, how he actually。
forgives us.。
And then lastly, we're going to look at what does all that mean?。
What does that actually offer us?。
What are the benefits of the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus and what he forgives。
us from?。
So when we look at sin and we understand sin, sin ends up being one of the first major players。
in this concept of our existence.。
And I think for lots of us, we don't fully understand what sin is.。
Like we understand some of the fruit of sin.。
We understand like the things you're not supposed to do, but like what is sin at its core?。
And I think we have to understand it if we're going to have any chance of doing what Paul。
tells us.。
He says that you should flee from sin.。
Not like inch away, not like go to like where's the line of what can I do and what I can't。
do, build my house here and say, "Oh, look, I'm still good."。
No, if you understand sin the way Paul understands sin, then you flee from it at all costs.。
You run away from it.。
You avoid it.。
You want to remove it from your life.。
So we're going to start with understanding what sin is.。
Sin tempts us.。
It entices us.。
Then it traps you and it entangles you.。
It's meant to separate you from God, introducing elements like shame and guilt.。
And we've all fallen susceptible to this.。
Scripture would say that all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God.。
We are all guilty of this.。
And when we break down what sin means, in our sin we end up doing this concept where。
instead of having God as the one in charge of our lives, instead of having God as the。
one who rules and reigns over all things, we have exchanged that and put ourselves on。
top of it.。
Any sin you can think of, it has been an exchange of God for you.。
We've replaced God.。
In the Garden of Eden, we've chosen for ourselves our definition of what good and what evil。
is versus God's definition.。
And we still see that to this day.。
We don't know what truth is anymore.。
Everything is subjective.。
Everything is your own truth.。
Live what you think.。
Live your own peace.。
We've exchanged what God says is good and evil for our definition.。
Secondly, we've exchanged the way for human flourishing.。
God has a way.。
He has set up a design so that all would flourish.。
In sin, we have exchanged that method for our own methods, a me first method, a me and。
my clan doing whatever I can to help myself get ahead.。
We end up exchanging his method.。
It ends up hurting people.。
It ends up hurting his creation.。
It robs us, or at least it challenges our understanding of our morality.。
It pushes us.。
We exchange God's definitions.。
We exchange his way.。
So boiling down, sin is this.。
It's replacing God with ourselves.。
It's an easy way to think of sin.。
Sin is replacing God with ourselves where we've decided that we know better, that our。
lives are too precious to leave into someone's hands, so we take charge.。
We do it our way because, you know, this is me we're talking about.。
This is me and my family and the things that I need.。
We do whatever we can to make sure we get what we need.。
The basic nature of that is what sin is.。
We filled ourselves with the things that are opposed with God.。
We've labeled somehow these subjective things as the ultimate good, and we find ourselves。
as a people striving after achievement and after earnings, and we've labeled that as。
like this is the indicator.。
This is the metric of what a good life looks like.。
If you can earn this much, if you can achieve this much, if you can live in this house,。
if you can have this car, if you can marry this person, you've achieved, but that is。
not God's definition of what a good life looks like.。
In our sin, we've exchanged.。
We've twisted and poisoned the good that is here, trying to preserve ourselves, trying。
to get ahead, and the thing that we're aiming for, the thing that we're trying to attain。
ends up trapping us, ends up ensnaring us, ends up entangling us, and we find ourselves。
not actually achieving those things or earning those things.。
We find ourselves ultimately becoming slaves to those things where we work and live and。
breathe just to get ahead, just to make a certain milestone in a financial setting,。
just to earn a certain amount, just to live in a certain place, just to be a certain like。
that.。
That is not the reason we are here.。
Genesis would tell us that when God created us, he had a mandate for humanity.。
He had a purpose in why we would exist.。
Yes, we bring him glory, but he actually had a mission for us.。
He created us, and he wanted us to have dominion over all creation.。
He had a purpose for us to reflect his image, to live as his image bearers, his representatives。
on earth, and when we fall into sin, when we take our lives into our own hand, when。
we define what is good and what's evil for ourselves, we end up becoming a slave to ourselves,。
to our desires.。
We end up being controlled by creation, and what a tragedy.。
What an absolute tragedy.。
We end up morally and spiritually spiraling while living in the consequences of poor decisions,。
dethroning God and replacing him with a lesser God who is subject to temptation and gives。
in.。
Scripture would tell us that this is sin, and sin has a price.。
Sin has a consequence.。
There is a response.。
The wages of sin is death, right?。
So when we sin, the consequence of that is death, and our world experiences this now.。
How much sin in the world causes death?。
Causes the decay of humanity.。
Causes the decay of our love for our neighbor, even our love for ourselves, and it's not。
just a physical death that we are spiraling into.。
There's also the eternal state that God has created us to be in starts to corrode, and。
we find ourselves in this cosmic battle between God and his goodness, and our sin and death.。
This is sin.。
This is sin, and its impact is so strong.。
But God, in his goodness and in his love, steps in.。
He interjects.。
He intercepts us as we are headed for disaster.。
I normally speak pretty exaggerated and poetically in just all the things because I'm a musician,。
right?。
I want to clarify that what I'm about to say next is not something I came up with.。
This is how scripture defined God intercepting our sin, okay?。
Scripture uses very poetic, very intense and weighty words so that we can get a picture,。
a clear picture and understand exactly what he does.。
It says that yet while we were still sinner and while we were still away from him, while。
we were still dead in our sin, God sent Christ for us.。
So before we did anything right, before you thought, "Oh, maybe I could be a better person,"。
before you reconciled yourself and decided to overcome whatever the temptation is in。
your life, before you said, "Sorry," God has sent Jesus.。
This is where the gospel, the good news of Jesus shines into our world that despite all。
being lost and all being broken, Christ has come.。
And he's not just come to erase our sins, he's come to forgive you and to make you new.。
This is what he's aiming for.。
This is what his forgiveness is meant to look like.。
If we confess our sins, he is faithful like we sung a minute ago.。
He is faithful and he is just to forgive us of those sins and cleanse us of all unrighteousness.。
There is no death.。
There is no death that's too low.。
There is nothing you can do that is so bad that Christ's blood cannot cover.。
This is what his forgiveness looks like.。
You remember when I said that Christ offers us a powerful forgiveness?。
This is what I'm talking about.。
That is a powerful forgiveness.。
Don't we wish we knew how to live in a way where we could forgive others like that?。
The scripture would tell us that God loves us, right?。
I think we know that.。
God loves us.。
His forgiveness is not a siloed act.。
It's not just him responding to the fact that we made mistakes.。
No, but it tells us that God's forgiveness is an intentional act of love.。
John 3, 16, perhaps the most famous passage in scripture says what?。
For God so loved the world that he sent his son.。
And through his son, we get the forgiveness of our sins.。
In order to forgive us, God gives us Jesus.。
This is what his love looks like.。
He could have outsourced it.。
In the scripture, you read about like Michael the archangel or Gabriel who visits.。
He could have sent one of those guys.。
No, he sends Jesus.。
And just to clarify, Jesus, God, same, okay?。
Same thing.。
Jesus is God in flesh.。
So scripture in Isaiah 7, we call him Emmanuel, God with us, God incarnate.。
So God doesn't just send some dude named Jesus.。
God puts on flesh and blood and he comes still being divine, still being God, and he walks。
among broken people.。
He comes and he lives with us and he understands us.。
He walks our journey.。
God sends Jesus.。
He ultimately sends himself.。
What does that mean?。
It means this, that God made a sacrifice.。
It means that forgiveness isn't just something you do.。
Forgiveness is a sacrifice you make.。
Right?。
Because in Philippians 2, Paul writes it super beautifully.。
We understand Paul's other epistles.。
We know that he would tell us to imitate him while he imitates Christ.。
The Christian life is, even call yourself a Christian, is Christ-like.。
We're meant to imitate Christ.。
But Paul is going to push this idea significantly further.。
Don't just imitate Christ's actions.。
He's going to pull us and tell us that there's something even bigger, probably a precursor。
to imitating Christ's action that we have to understand.。
He would tell us that we need to imitate the same mindset as Christ.。
We have to think like Christ.。
We have to see things like Christ.。
We have to take on his mindset, how he approached things.。
He took on a mindset of deep humility.。
Deep humility.。
Christ-like forgiveness requires this Christ-like humility.。
So I'm not, I'll just read to you what Philippians 2 says so that you get why I'm saying this.。
Philippians 2, verses 8.。
"Christ, who being in very nature God, did not consider equality with God something to。
be used to his own advantage.。
Rather instead, he made himself nothing."。
Big word there.。
He made himself nothing.。
"Taking on the very nature of a servant."。
I use the, I think the ES or the NIV on this.。
I should use the ESV.。
It says, "He made himself a slave."。
Talk about humility, right?。
"Taking on the very nature of a slave, being made in human likeness and being found in。
the appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to death, even death。
on a cross."。
This is a wild kind of humility.。
Who lives this way?。
Who steps into such a radical, like this is what God's Christ forgiveness looks like.。
This is how he forgives us.。
He is executed through a radical humility.。
So you can't forgive others like Christ forgives without this posture of humility.。
Forgiveness is not something you do to pat yourself on the back.。
It's not something you do to show the world, "Look, I'm a bigger person.。
Am I forgiven?"。
That's not what it's about.。
Consider that forgiveness is rooted in this mindset and this framework and this posture。
of humility.。
And this mark of humility is a bit of a scandal.。
It's pretty challenging because I know there's quite a few of us, understandably so, who。
would feel that for the offenses done to us, our offenders deserve our anger.。
They deserve our bitterness for what has been said to you, what has shaped your identity.。
They deserve some frustration for how you've been treated, for how you've been hurt.。
The fact that you're still carrying this wound still from a close family loved one, they。
deserve your anger, right?。
They deserve our frustration for the way they've said things and treated you and hurt you.。
We feel that others deserve.。
It's only just that they get what's coming to them.。
This is the natural way of thinking, but let me flip it on its head because Scripture uses。
the word about deserving as well.。
Christ would say that, the Bible would say that we were once children of wrath.。
We were enemies of God deserving death.。
We too deserve the thing.。
We deserved death.。
But while we were still sinners, before we said sorry, before we repented, forgiveness。
is offered.。
God sends himself to come and take the place of the things that you've done wrong, the。
consequences that you deserve, God sends himself to take that on.。
While we were still sinners, before we get our act together, God substitutes.。
He exchanges.。
Now remember, when we defined sin, we said that sin was this exchanging of who is God。
in your life from it being God to it being you.。
And in Christ's forgiveness to us, there is another exchange.。
It's an exchange of who is guilty.。
Christ comes in and you are supposed to stand guilty for the things that you've done and。
his forgiveness offers an exchange where he stands in the place of our wrongdoings, our。
shortcomings, where we failed, where we've been on purpose and where we've just not been。
strong enough to do the right thing.。
He takes our place, which leads us to our salvation, but it's done through the path。
of the cross and the blood of Jesus, which we say if you grew up in church, you've heard。
something about the power of the blood of Jesus, nothing like the blood of Jesus, which。
kind of doesn't make sense because the idea is that the blood is supposed to wash you。
clean, but if you put blood on something, it doesn't make it clean, it makes it more。
dirty.。
So I just don't want us to be living in a world where we hear Christian jargon, we sing。
about it, but we don't understand it.。
So I'm going to take a few minutes to help us understand a little bit more why do we。
say his blood makes us clean?。
How does his blood actually clean us?。
What does that even mean?。
Are you still tracking with me?。
We're all here?。
So in the Old Testament, for the price of sin, the consequence is death.。
God sets up this, I don't know how you want to call it, a system, a sacrificial system。
where the place of our sin and the death that we had acquired would be passed on to something。
else.。
Something had to die in place of our sin.。
So the whole sacrificial system exists.。
You hear about people killing goats and sheep and pigeons or turtle doves or whatever it。
is.。
They had all these animals that they had to kill, and the animals had to be clean.。
They had to be pure, but you really can't tell the motives of a chicken, can you?。
That might be a little much.。
So God sets up this system where they need to optically be pure.。
That's why they said no animals with blemishes, only the clean ones, the ones that were normally。
young and innocent to some extent.。
And these optical purity, when the animal was killed, that blood, that sacrifice would。
take the place of the death that was upon us for our sins.。
So they had a whole system around this, right?。
And in that system, you had to offer up certain animals for certain sins, but not every animal。
could cover every sin.。
Not every sin could be covered, and at best, what was covered was a temporary cover, because。
after all, it's a sheep for a human, and nowhere is that fair.。
Nowhere is that just or balanced.。
And so God sees this.。
God knows this.。
God understands this.。
This is his temporary solution while in the meanwhile, he has his plan, and he sends himself.。
He sends Jesus, and we all know that God dies for us, right?。
Jesus dies for our sins, and we're made clean, but I want to look at the controversy of the。
fact that Jesus actually lived for us to be saved, right?。
So it's not just that he needed to die, but in order for Jesus to be clean, it wasn't。
about what he looks like.。
It was about the fact that Jesus had to live a life of no sin.。
So that's why you will hear people in the Christian tradition talk about how Jesus lived。
a sinless life.。
If he doesn't live a sinless life, his death doesn't mean anything.。
He had to be pure.。
He had to be clean.。
So Jesus's day in and day out, when Jesus was thirsty and hungry in the desert, being。
tempted by Satan, do you know why he was saying no?。
Yes, because he was God, but because he was remaining clean and pure so that when he would。
die and be a sacrifice for us, our sins, all humanity's sins could be covered.。
In his forgiveness, Jesus's death covers us and frees us, but it's also in his forgiveness。
that he lives for us.。
This blameless life that we get from him gives the blood power.。
It gives, and that's why we sing and we celebrate and when we take communion, we've got the。
little tiny cup with juice in it, right?。
It's because the blood of Jesus has done something for us.。
He lived and he died so that we could properly be forgiven, so that you no longer have to。
be guilty for the sins that you commit.。
That's the whole exchange here.。
He's stepping in.。
He's taking the place.。
He's exchanging, and I could go on forever around this, but instead I want to give us。
a chance to sit and think.。
Normally here at the Vine, around, I don't know, the 30-minute mark after the service。
or the hour and 30-minute mark, we have a response song and lots of you get up and you。
sprint out for lunch.。
I get it.。
It makes sense.。
We're going to, instead of doing that, we're going to sit in this.。
The sermon's not done.。
We'll come back in a minute, but I want us to sit and we're going to put up some words。
and we're going to have a moment.。
This moment is built around the hymn, "How Deep the Father's Love for Us," which portrays,。
I think, flawlessly what the exchange looks like.。
For Jesus to hang in our place, for Jesus to take upon himself the wrath of God poured。
out in our place, for Jesus to be the one who stepped in.。
I know you're going to be tempted to sing it because you know the melody, but you'll。
see there's no microphone here.。
There's no singer here.。
We're not singing right now.。
I just want us to sit because I think sometimes when we sing, we sing and we don't think sometimes.。
I think when we sit and we just read, there's a chance that this might hit you differently,。
even if you've been a Christian for 20 years.。
There's a chance that you might see and remember and feel just what Jesus did for you.。
So I'm going to hand it over to Jethro.。
Don't sing.。
Take a minute and sit.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
The cross is the most powerful expression of Christ's forgiveness for you and for me.。
It was a ridiculous display of humility, a commitment to love, and ridiculous obedience.。
It was our sin, it was our debt that he pays with his life and with his blood.。
Christ's unforgiveness is actually unfair, because it's unearned,。
but it's this beautiful exchange where God himself would take upon him the consequences of the mistakes we've made.。
I mean, I'm preaching this sermon three times, but even as I think about it now,。
I don't know, there's just something about really sitting in the reality that God would do that.。
Like, I think we know it, we do know it, but not enough do we sit in it.。
And I'm just thankful. I'm just really thankful.。
Beyond what it does for me and all the things that might get after it, I'm just thankful that his love looks like that,。
that his forgiveness is that powerful.。
When we consider the weight of our sin, the re-exchange that takes place here,。
the God-sized mistakes that we've made, the God complex which we live within,。
when we consider just how deep our sin was and is, it gives us a great opportunity to see how much greater。
the forgiveness of God is to cancel the debt, to satisfy our debt.。
Then we understand what Christ did for us. Then we understand that his forgiveness isn't something that you earn.。
You don't behave good enough and now you get forgiven.。
You don't come to church enough and now you're forgiven.。
You don't not say bad words and now you're forgiven.。
No, it's not something you can earn. It's something he has given to you of his own accord.。
It's a grace. And it's because of that that we can boast in no thing, no power, no wisdom, no gift, no nothing.。
Nothing we've done, but it's a free gift given to all of us.。
It's a ridiculous thing God has done. That if we confess our sins, he would be faithful。
and he would be just to forgive us those sins, cleanse us of all unrighteousness.。
The gospel is a proclamation of good news.。
This is good news that Jesus is willing to forgive all people of all things.。
And when we see that our sins are now forgiven, when we see the way in which he forgives us,。
the type of humility that he has to have, the kind of sacrifice he's willing to make,。
we have to ask ourselves, what does it produce?。
We are forgiven. What does that actually mean?。
We understand sin, we understand his sacrifice, but what does it mean that we are forgiven?。
His forgiveness makes available to us a reconciled relationship。
and it reawakens our spirits and it reaffirms our identity into God's family.。
In short, Christ's forgiveness is our salvation.。
When you hear people say, "Are you saved?" or "I was saved on this date,"。
this is what we mean by saved. His forgiveness leads us to that salvation.。
It is our salvation. In our sin, we lived as hostile towards God.。
We lived as enemies towards God, but what Jesus's forgiveness does is that it brings you in.。
He doesn't forgive you and say, "Now, never come back again. I've forgiven you. Now just leave."。
No, he forgives and he draws you into himself.。
He makes a channel, a pathway available that you can commune and know the heart of God。
to where the most sovereign being, the creator of everything, will speak to you,。
will inspire you, will talk to you, will comfort you.。
This is what his forgiveness does for us.。
It's another exchange where...and before Christ's forgiveness,。
if God would look upon us, he would see our sin.。
He would see where we've fallen short because of Christ's forgiveness.。
And if we will accept that salvation, when God looks at you and exchange takes place,。
there is an imparted...Christ puts his righteousness, his perfect, flawless living,。
his sinless, pure life, he puts all that he has actually done upon you。
so that when God looks at you, God's not angry. You know that?。
As Christians, the mistakes you've made, when God looks at you, he's not annoyed.。
He's not like, "Oh, you did it again." But I think a lot of us feel that way.。
It probably makes us hesitate to come close to God。
because we think he sees us for what we've done, but the freedom that is found。
in Christ's forgiveness is that he sees you based off of what Jesus has done.。
That's powerful forgiveness.。
His righteousness, Christ's righteousness has been imputed towards us.。
Another gift that we get is this reawakening of our spirits.。
Right? So God could have forgiven us and left us be.。
Okay, he draws us in and he now looks at us the way that Christ behaved.。
But then he gives us a spirit. He gives us his spirit that acts as our counselor,。
as our comforter, as our companion.。
It's the one that helps us understand scripture and the word of God.。
He gives us this beautiful gift of himself.。
Like how many times do you forgive someone and say, "Also, I have a gift for you."。
This is not very common, right?。
This is how Christ's forgiveness looks like.。
He draws you in and then he gives you stuff.。
He gives you himself, his spirit.。
Not just the breath that we see in Genesis where he breathed his spirit and we're alive.。
Now he sends his spirit to forever dwell in us.。
And it says that with this spirit of God in us,。
we would be able to do even more than Christ has done.。
Oh, he lived perfect.。
That's just wild, right? Like what a gift.。
This is what he gives us in his forgiveness.。
Our spirits are reawakened and we end up becoming people who live by the spirit.。
Most of Paul's books would have some section in his epistles。
about living by the spirit, being new in the spirit.。
And it's because of this idea that Jesus' forgiveness doesn't--。
I think a lot of us think it wipes the slate clean, right?。
It wipes the sins that we had here. It just wipes it.。
I wish I had a whiteboard. I could show you it.。
He doesn't wipe it. He like throws the board away and he gives you a new one.。
It's not about like cleaning it off.。
It's Jesus gives you a new--this is why it says that in Galatians,。
"The old is gone, the new has come in Christ Jesus."。
He's not trying to clean off how bad your sins are.。
He's giving you something new. He's giving you a new life, a new spirit,。
a newness that we can now live in the spirit.。
We can now walk in the spirit.。
We can set our hearts and our eyes on things of the spirit.。
He's giving us a new slate. We are made new.。
And the last thing he does, which I just think is absolutely wild, genuinely crazy,。
is this idea that he brings us into his family.。
I just can't imagine a scenario where you forgive someone of a tremendous debt。
and then after you forgive them, you say, "Also, here's my will.。
I'm writing your name on it."。
Like think about this stuff.。
Like this is the gospel that Jesus not only forgives you of his sin,。
but he brings you into his family.。
He says, "You used to be sons and daughters of wrath and you deserve death,。
but now you are children of God."。
First John, where we get our anchor verse we've been reading like three times today,。
in the few verses or the few chapters that are there,。
John refers to us as children 13 times.。
Like it's really clear that God wants you in the family.。
He doesn't want you thinking, "I have to earn this. My son doesn't earn my love.。
Remy will never have to earn my love because they're my children.。
And if I can love my kids this way, how much more will God love you?"。
He brings you in.。
Modern day forgiveness is you say you're sorry, maybe I'm a little angry, but whatever.。
I don't have to see you again. We forgive and we forget.。
That's not God's playbook.。
This is not how we've been forgiven.。
The forgiveness offered to you is he forgives you and he brings you in。
and he floods you with gifts, with his spirit, with an awakening in your spirits。
where you can sense the things of the spirit.。
He puts you on the list. You are now a child of God.。
You inherit the goodness and all that God has.。
The power of God resides in you.。
Like this is why we have to, the crux of the sermon,。
this is why we have to look at Christ's example of forgiveness。
because this is the only place that we see forgiveness that looks like this.。
No other religion, no other culture, no other story。
has a forgiveness that looks like this.。
This is like not even heard of anywhere.。
It's absolutely one of one.。
This is how Christ forgives.。
He brings you into the family.。
He doesn't treat you like family.。
Paul would say he grafts you in.。
You become his children.。
And this is why he would say you must be born again, born into the family of God.。
This is, it's so important that we get it.。
The family of God, you are in God's family.。
Stop trying to earn it.。
Don't think you can lose it.。
If you accept his forgiveness, if you will walk that path to salvation,。
if you will journey with him, he puts you in the family.。
You don't have to beat yourself up all the time.。
You don't have to worry about your status.。
No, he loves you. He loves you.。
He loves us.。
I feel like this sermon, and I feel like you probably think the same thing as well,。
could have been boiled down to like a three-minute idea。
because it's just been the same thing over and over again about the gospel.。
But ultimately, what it's saying is that despite what you've done,。
despite what you're prone to do,。
despite how big the mistakes you made。
or how terrible the choices you chose to make,。
despite how short you've come up,。
despite the frustrations that you might have caused,。
God is armed, and I use that word on purpose,。
he is armed with forgiveness,。
ready, quick to forgive, slow to anger.。
This is our God.。
This is the gospel.。
This is why we call it good news, right?。
This is good news.。
Not a clean slate, a new slate, fully new.。
And I tell you this gospel story because it is of the utmost importance,。
and we have to remember, we have to remember.。
In our world, we're flooded with so much stuff, we forget.。
We have to sit and remember what he's actually done for us,。
what it actually looks like, the fact that it cost him things.。
And forgiveness won't just be something that we muster up with our strength。
and we remember this.。
If we can remember correctly, if we can remember what we've been forgiven from,。
perhaps it's going to impact the way that we forgive.。
And I want to, before it comes out weird and you think I'm saying something else,。
I want to clarify, I'm not saying that, you know,。
if you just trust in Jesus, all of a sudden,。
the way you are hurt won't hurt no more.。
I'm not just saying that if you just trust in Jesus,。
forgiveness becomes easy overnight.。
That's actually nowhere in the 66 books of Scripture.。
No, forgiveness is hard, and because it's hard,。
we need a strength that we don't find in ourselves.。
I have, if you were here for Converse, I just chose a few.。
We had a prayer station where you got a chance to write the things。
that you were dealing with when it came to forgiveness,。
some of the offenses, some of the hurt that you're living with.。
Forgiveness isn't easy because we've had hurt in our lives.。
Someone wrote, "I forgive blank for betraying my trust and my love for you."。
That causes deep hurt.。
You can't just will your way or Jesus coat that, right?。
Someone wrote, "Forgiving myself, even though I know I'm sinful,。
God has already forgiven me, and I need to quit the shame。
because I'm a new person."。
Someone else just wrote, "Forgiveness towards God."。
Someone wrote, "Forgiving themselves."。
Two people wrote, "Forgiving themselves."。
Someone said, "Forgiving my ma and my pa."。
"I release forgiveness.。
The things you did hurt, but I know you did your best."。
Forgiveness, when it's that close, is hard.。
"Lord, help me let go of the way my in-laws treat me."。
I know most people make a joke about that, but that will impact your life, right?。
"My dad, my grandmother, my country, my old friends, my family."。
Guys, forgiveness isn't something that a sermon fixes.。
It's something that Jesus helps us with.。
So, forgiveness is still going to be super hard after this.。
So, I do want it to be debunked.。
I want it to be clear that you don't have to have the strength to forgive on your own.。
That forgiveness isn't something that you just do,。
but that forgiveness is actually something that requires supernatural strength.。
When we still carry the pains of our hurt, we need God's help to forgive.。
When we still live with the scars of what's been done to us, we need God's help to forgive.。
In order for us to come close to this "forgive your brother 70 times 7" concept,。
we need God's help.。
And that's what the gospel shows us.。
So, look, I have two points, super simple.。
The goal of this sermon is to help you remember.。
It's to create space for us to remember the gospel, what Jesus has done,。
and to see it real, real clear.。
And so, the two things I want you to take with you,。
I want us to remember so that we know what forgiveness truly looks like, okay?。
Remember so that you know exactly what you were forgiven from,。
exactly who forgave you, and what that sacrifice cost them.。
Remember so that you can know what forgiveness looks like.。
The second thing is remember so that we know where to go for our strength,。
so that we don't go to other places thinking that this person or this thing is going to help me forgive.。
There's no other forgiveness story out there like this.。
Only in Jesus can you find this kind of forgiveness for yourself。
and find the strength to lean on him and that spirit in him that is now in you。
to forgive others of the things that they've done.。
Forgiveness is important.。
It's very important to all of our hearts.。
And so, today, I want to create space for us not just to stand up and sing,。
so I'm going to again ask you not to stand up.。
You can sing if you want, but we're going to create space to sit for a minute。
and just think and just reflect because there's some of us here who,。
if we think about it, if we ask ourselves and we're honest,。
today is a chance for us to realize it's not about how hard we try to earn God's forgiveness.。
It requires God's help to forgive others.。
There are some of us today who this is just a chance to slow down and stop striving.。
There are some of us today who don't know Jesus,。
and this is a chance to come in closer and ask him to reveal himself to you,。
that this gospel, this good news, because it's not for all people.。
It's for those who will confess their sins.。
There's a condition to believe in him, not believe in yourself.。
So maybe you're here today and this is your first time hearing the gospel.。
Maybe you're here today and you just need help.。
He is our ever-present help.。
That's such a good phrase, like always present, always available,。
never taking a nap, never on vacation.。
He's always present, ever-present help.。
Maybe today's a chance for you to lean upon that ever-present help.。
I don't know what kind of work he needs to do, but I'm going to get off stage.。
The band's going to sing that song.。
Don't get up. Don't rush out, guys.。
We're not just going to wait.。
Sit in this.。
Ask God, what is he saying?。
What is he revealing?。
What is he unearthing?。
What is he building in you?。
Let him do a little bit of work in you today.。
That's why we're here.。
(gentle music)。
