Amen, amen.。
Thank you, Carla.。
And wow, good morning to the 11 o'clock service.。
You guys can sing.。
That's great, and welcome also to those online。
who are with us today.。
Normally we worship in the nine o'clock,。
so this is our neighborhood over here,。
but this is okay over here too,。
but this is where we sit,。
and it's just great to be celebrating here。
with the 11 o'clock service.。
And thank you, Carla, for those words.。
And also, Emma, for that word again, trust.。
You know, a little bit of homework。
just to get us started right away is。
trust is a powerful word.。
And we're gonna talk about it a little bit。
in the sermon today,。
but you might just write that word down every morning,。
like on your journal or maybe by your computer or something。
because it's a powerful word.。
And amen, we do not worship a God of scarcity.。
We worship a God of generosity。
who's more than enough,。
and you are always more than enough too。
with our character leadership, with our students.。
It's one of the things we send the message to them,。
that you are enough,。
as much as the world tries to make us think otherwise.。
Amen?。
- Amen.。
- Okay, so we've heard some good words already.。
Also, Dad's, happy Father's Day.。
It's Dad's Day.。
My daughter, our daughter, our middle daughter。
is living in New York, and she has a film production company。
so I'm always telling her, tell good dad stories.。
The world needs more good dad stories, amen?。
So yeah, we need probably less dad jokes,。
but we need more good dad stories.。
Actually, you can never have enough dad jokes.。
Keep them going, dads.。
We'll keep going.。
So what I will do this morning is just share。
a little bit from the word of God.。
We're gonna look at a passage together,。
and also just share something of what I've been learning。
at the university, learning in life here in Hong Kong.。
And there's a professor at Harvard, Arthur Brooks,。
and he says that all research is really me-search.。
So all research is really me-search。
because the researchers are actually。
trying to figure out a question or a problem。
that they're really interested in。
or that they're struggling with, right?。
So that's what he kinda says, and as a researcher,。
I would say it's pretty similar to sermons as well,。
that oftentimes sermons are ones that the pastor,。
the preacher is also working through。
in questions that affect all of us,。
and that is definitely the case today。
because God is working on me in this sermon,。
and I want to share a little bit of what he's saying.。
Vision Sunday, Pastor Andrew gave us this word,。
uncharted, uncharted.。
What does it mean to be in uncharted territory,。
unfamiliar territory?。
And the passage that we're gonna look at today。
has a lot to do with how we can respond in uncharted times.。
And last week, as Carla said, we finished up。
the sermon series on the Holy Spirit,。
but today we'll hear again about the Holy Spirit。
'cause the Holy Spirit is the one that guides us。
in uncharted times.。
But the primary way I believe he guides us。
is through the word of God.。
So don't let Sunday be the only day。
you open the word of God, amen?。
Open it up in the morning before you go out into our world。
and open yourself to it, and you will find something。
for you or, and something for someone else.。
Few weeks ago, I had breakfast with a leader。
here in Hong Kong, and I've admired him for some time.。
We've had the honor of kind of working together。
in little places, and I've always admired him,。
but particularly I've admired him。
how in the toughest of times, in the meetings。
that seem to, or the situations that seem。
the most complicated, he's always calm,。
and he has wisdom, and he's kind.。
Kind of kind, calm, and confident, you know?。
So I thought, I think I'll have a breakfast with him。
and try to find out a little bit, you know,。
how he does that and just get to know him。
a little bit better, and also to ask。
for some of his prayers.。
And so we got together for breakfast,。
and I found out that he has memorized over 1,000 verses.。
Wow, that's a high bar, right?。
And he's an accountant, so he's not exaggerating, right?。
Numbers are important to him.。
But he started young, and it's coming through his life.。
So we're gonna look at the word of God。
and say, what does it have to say to us this morning?。
When our family was young, we were living。
in Switzerland, and at that time,。
that's where I started my theological education,。
there at the University of Zurich.。
So at one point in the University of Zurich,。
which Zurich is German-speaking,。
I was studying Greek in German, okay?。
So I was studying (speaking in foreign language)。
Now, here's the problem.。
My Greek was not that good, right?。
And my German was not that good either.。
So every day in my translations,。
there was a new heresy, right?。
But the main thing is it was taking me forever。
to kind of get through the courses, right?。
And so I thought, man, I'm not gonna finish this。
before Jesus comes back.。
And for some reason, that was important to me, right?。
So Marian and I talked, and what we decided is。
that I would transfer.。
So I transferred to Princeton Theological Seminary.。
We flew there with our family.。
About two days after we landed there,。
then I was on the playground with our daughter,。
young daughter, she was about three years old at the age.。
We're on the playground, we're doing the dad thing, right?。
We're pushing swings, we're doing duck under。
and all that, you know?。
And we're having fun there, but someone calls my name.。
And then I look across the playground,。
and this guy's running towards me.。
I recognize him, his name's Tomas.。
He was from the Czech Republic,。
and he came up to me, and we started kind of joking。
and laughing, and Tomas has like long brown hair.。
He's a young PhD student.。
Beard, kind of a rugged face.。
And so we're just laughing and joking.。
I'd met him, yeah, just like I said, a couple days before.。
And then, but I noticed that the whole time。
I'm talking with Tomas, our daughter, my daughter,。
cannot take her eyes off of him.。
And she's just got these big eyes looking at Tomas.。
And so we talk a little bit, someone else calls Tomas name,。
he goes running over there, and I turn back to my daughter,。
and she says to me, where did Jesus go?。
[audience laughing]。
And I thought, good, my daughter thinks I have。
such a great relationship with Jesus。
that we can laugh and joke, and he knows my name,。
and this is good, this is good, right?。
I was quite flattered.。
But that question, where did Jesus go, is a tough one.。
It's one probably we've all asked at some point,。
we've been following Jesus.。
It's also maybe one we're asking right now.。
It may be one that we will ask, or someone we know。
and love is asking right now, because it's a tough time.。
We can't see what Jesus is doing,。
where Jesus is, where is God in this situation.。
Maybe it's uncertain times, uncharted times.。
We just don't know the way we should go.。
Maybe we're overwhelmed at work with everything。
that's going on and put on us, the demands on us.。
Maybe it's in the family, maybe it's an illness,。
maybe even worse, it's the illness of someone we love.。
I don't know what it is, but we go through these times。
where they're definitely uncharted,。
and they're also the times where in the night often,。
we're lying there and we're saying, God, where are you?。
I was following you, and then I've lost you.。
Where are you, Jesus?。
Amen?。
So the word of God has a word for that,。
and some strategies that if we're finding ourselves。
in that situation, I've found to be helpful,。
and I hope they can be helpful to you as well.。
So we're looking at Acts chapter 16,。
and from 25, verse 25 to 34.。
And we'll just look through and then kind of allow ourselves。
to be open to what the scripture is saying.。
Now, the scripture starts with about midnight,。
Paul and Silas were praying.。
But let's stop there, because we need to know。
what happened before about midnight,。
because about midnight, something's going on.。
Midnight is the darkest part of the night.。
Metaphorically, it's the part where we cannot see.。
It is the part where we are only walking by faith。
and not by sight.。
It's a dark night, right?。
And so what happened before then?。
What happened before then is about earlier,。
I don't know how long, maybe a couple weeks earlier,。
the Paul and Silas have arrived in Philippi,。
where the letter of Philippians was going to.。
They've arrived in Philippi.。
They've met a businesswoman named Lydia.。
She's a trader of purple cloth, so she's doing quite well.。
They meet her.。
She opens her home to have the church in her home,。
and they're out on the street, worshiping publicly,。
and preaching publicly, and healing.。
And one of the individuals they heal is a slave girl.。
And this slave girl, because of possession,。
had the ability to foretell the future.。
And so her owners, her masters, were。
making a lot of money off her.。
And when they healed her, that left.。
And so you can kind of follow the money, right?。
So the owners are furious.。
And so what they do is they accuse Paul and Silas。
of public disorder, and they call the magistrates,。
and they create this huge ruckus.。
And what ends up happening is, without any justice,。
without any trial, Paul and Silas are beaten,。
and they're taken, and they're thrown in jail.。
And the jailer is told, put them in the deepest, kind。
of the darkest, the dankest, the very middle of the prison,。
and put them in stocks.。
That's what happened before, about midnight.。
So now our verse starts, "About midnight, Paul and Silas。
were praying and singing hymns to God,。
and the prisoners were listening to them.。
And suddenly, there's a great earthquake,。
so that the foundation of the prison was shaken.。
And immediately, all the doors were opened,。
and everyone's bonds were unfastened."。
OK, let's stop there, because I think there's already。
a couple of strategies of what you and I can do if we find。
ourselves in a time of uncertainty。
in uncharted times.。
The first thing is, write the first three words.。
So we read there, Paul and Silas.。
If you had a marker, underline "and,"。
because that's the key word.。
The first thing is, when you're in a tough time,。
when you're in uncharted territory, when you don't know。
which way to go, find your "and."。
We have Paul and Silas.。
Earlier, we would have had Paul and Barnabas.。
Later, we're going to have Paul and Timothy.。
This is the way Paul lived and worked.。
For 41 years, Marian has been my "and."。
And she's been my "and" through tough times then.。
She's in my "and" right now during uncharted times.。
I have reached the prestigious age。
of being the mandatory retirement age at HKU.。
So I'm about to step into uncharted territory.。
Remember what I said about me-search?。
This is about this.。
We're dealing with this as well.。
And Marian and I will go through as an "and."。
And you know I'm in pretty good hands there,。
because if you've met Marian, you。
know she is the significantly better half of the equation.。
But it's not about "and"s just in the personal life.。
It's about a way of life.。
Finding your "and" is a way of life.。
And it'll happen in different spheres.。
Because if you're like me, it's probably not just one area.。
There may be one area that you're most concerned at.。
But there's a lot of other areas that challenge us as well.。
And so like at the university, where。
we were helping start the character leadership。
program for undergraduates, it was uncharted territory.。
So I had a co-leader.。
And he and I co-led.。
And we've just handed over to two very gifted uprising。
scholars.。
And they will co-lead.。
One of the things we tell our students is,。
don't do life alone.。
Find your "and."。
Marian and I have been here 16 years now in Hong Kong.。
And during that time, first month I was here,。
I met a pastor by God's kind of gift.。
He lived right next door to me.。
And so we started having a coffee one month.。
We had a coffee the next month.。
And for the next 16 years till now,。
we're trying to-- we have a coffee or a lunch every month.。
And we're each other's "and."。
Encouraging each other, building each other up,。
laughing together with each other.。
There's two theologians, Harawats and Pinchas.。
And I think they say this beautifully.。
So it's a long quote.。
But I want to show you this quote and read you this quote.。
Starts with, "Returning once again,"。
they write, "to our metaphor of the moral life as a journey,。
it's obvious," as Aristotle himself notes,。
"that a journey is better undertaken with companions。
than alone.。
At the very least, we need others。
to sustain us along the way.。
But further," and this is important,。
"and more strongly, traveling with others。
is crucial not only to relieve our boredom。
or supply a hand to hold in the dark and narrow places,。
but as well, the journey requires。
that we ourselves be transformed.。
And we cannot do this without friends."。
Our "and" is not only just to help us.。
It's to help us become who we are.。
And we become who we are during the tough times.。
Crucible moments not only develop our character,。
they reveal our character.。
And we have that "and" working there with us.。
This is not new.。
Jesus sent his disciples out two by two.。
And he's still doing that.。
That's still a way of life for him.。
He sends you out.。
So we find our "and."。
I mean, last weekend, I had a chance。
to kind of work with our CG leaders.。
We were just doing some leadership training,。
and it was great meeting them.。
They're wonderful people.。
They all lead their groups with two or three or at least two。
in leadership.。
And here's the thing.。
There's 60 of those groups going on here at Divine.。
So if you're thinking, who's my "and" or who could be my "and,"。
you don't have to think about it anymore.。
You can just go right out here to the Connect Hub。
and find out, because they're all open to receive new people.。
Find your "and," and why not today?。
Amen?。
OK, so we've covered about five words right now.。
And so at this pace, I hope you guys brought a packed lunch,。
and we're going to all be together.。
And we're going to have to pick it up.。
So first strategy, find your "and."。
The second strategy as we go into untartered territories。
or we find ourselves there is choose to sing.。
Choose to sing.。
So let's go back to our passage.。
It says, "About midnight, Paul and Silas。
were praying and singing hymns to God,。
and the prisoners were listening to them."。
OK, we'll stop there.。
Second strategy, choose to sing.。
Augustine is purported to have said, "He who sings,。
prays twice."。
"He who sings, prays twice."。
It's in his writing about the power of hymns and worship,。
which we just experienced, right?。
Because we know that.。
Whether Augustine said it or not,。
we know it to be true because we've just experienced it,。
right?。
We're just holding our hands high a few minutes ago,。
and we're singing, but we're praying, aren't we?。
And there's that praying and singing.。
We're praying twice.。
It's kind of happening as we're singing.。
And we're calling out this, "The one I can trust is this one.。
I sought the Lord, and he answered me with that trust."。
That's the praying and the singing going together.。
When you're in a hard time, it's a hard time to sing,。
but choose to sing.。
In the community church, which I was leading here。
in Hong Kong for a while, we had a prison ministry.。
And I was part of that team.。
And once a month, we would go to Lai Chi Kok.。
And we would be in Lai Chi Kok, and we would basically just。
be with the brothers.。
We'd do some teaching.。
We'd do some singing.。
We'd do small groups together, basically just。
to encourage each other, be each other's and in that moment.。
And I always was encouraged by them,。
because it's not like we bring Christ into the prison, right?。
Jesus is already in the prison.。
He says, "You visited me in prison," right?。
So we just come and get to be with him there.。
But it was a tough time at Christmas,。
because our brothers, obviously, who are there right now,。
even as we're here, they're there, and they can't leave.。
And so to Christmas time, that was tough.。
And so we would do songs, and we had some great worship people。
leading us.。
And one year, I remember it specially,。
because that year, we tend to happen--。
because we'd be about 30 or 40 people at that time.。
We tend to have quite a number from South America.。
So we were singing "Feliz Navidad," right?。
Now, "Feliz Navidad" is good, I think, any time of the year.。
But "Feliz Navidad," we're just belting it out.。
And that year, we were in the canteen。
at Lychee Cock, which is on the higher floors.。
The windows are open, if you imagine.。
We're here, windows out there.。
And then down below are the basketball courts.。
And we're just singing at the top of our lungs,。
"Feliz Navidad."。
And most of it's in Spanish.。
I don't know what I'm singing, but we're just。
belting it out, right?。
And then later, the people tell us。
that the basketball players, they were listening.。
Did you hear what Paul--。
or what Acts says about Paul and the other prisoners。
who were listening?。
Never underestimate your ability to encourage others around you。
when, in a tough time, by the grace of God。
and the power of the Holy Spirit, you choose to sing.。
Because we don't know what everyone's going through,。
but we know someone, everyone, is going through something.。
Philo of Alexandria, he said this.。
He said, "Be kind, because everyone you meet。
is facing a battle."。
Just look around this room.。
This room is full.。
How many battles do we have going on in here, right?。
So we be kind.。
That's another way of singing.。
When I say choose to sing, it could be literal singing.。
And that's important.。
And research has shown we can build our character.。
There's playlists for characters.。
I mean, there's songs that build up our courage, right?。
Like, this is my fight song.。
Take back my life song.。
I mean, you know, this is like-- right.。
And that's kind of-- before I go into meeting,。
I listen to that song.。
No.。
But we know the power of music.。
But there's other ways to choose to sing.。
One is being kind.。
Other is maybe giving thanks to God,。
when you don't feel like giving thanks to God,。
because there's power in that.。
We were in a meeting the other day.。
And one of the professors said, there's。
something kind of almost defiant by our saying,。
thank you, God, in this situation.。
Why?。
Not thank you for the situation, but we。
thank him because, as we sing, we can trust him, right?。
So maybe-- here's some more homework.。
We've already got one homework, another homework coming.。
But maybe tomorrow, when you go into whatever your work。
situation is, maybe it's the dining room table.。
Maybe it's an office.。
Maybe it's a studio.。
Maybe you're in front of students.。
Maybe-- I don't know where--。
but right before you start, maybe just write down,。
thank you, God, for this time and place.。
Because you can do that.。
I've done that sometimes when I wasn't really that thankful.。
But I was thankful when I thought about what it is。
and what God was doing.。
That's a choosing to sing.。
That gives courage to you, but also encourages others.。
But be very clear.。
It is a choice to sing.。
We do have a choice of how we respond, even。
to the worst of situations.。
Viktor Frankl, who has also found himself。
in the worst of the worst of the prisons,。
and that is in a concentration camp in Nazi Germany.。
And when most did not survive, he said, as a psychologist,。
he said, they can never take away。
your power of how you respond.。
You choose that.。
Is it a hard choice?。
Yes.。
Do you feel like, I think I'll sing right away?。
No.。
It's a hard choice.。
In fact, for some of us, it's harder than others.。
I'm not really that good at this.。
But some of my aunts are very good at this.。
Marianne's quite good at this in terms of facing things。
with joy.。
Choose to sing.。
That's a second strategy.。
OK, so now we've finished one verse,。
and we've still got a ways to go.。
But here's this.。
Is this making sense?。
Is this helpful?。
Yeah?。
All good?。
OK, I'll trust you.。
There you go, please.。
Let's go on then to the third, the third strategy。
which our verse, our passage tells us.。
And I think to understand the rest,。
and we'll take the rest of the verse or the passages。
all together, because it's like they're all connected.。
And when it starts to flow, it doesn't stop until the end.。
And so we'll take all those together.。
But there may be two stories that。
would be helpful for you before we。
get right into that scripture.。
The first thought that might be helpful to you。
is that when we're on uncharted territory--。
and I have been in that uncharted territory.。
I'm about to be in it again.。
But five years ago, I was in that uncharted territory.。
Because I went from being in a church where。
I had been for about 20 years, leading in some capacity.。
And so it was familiar, right?。
And then I went to the university,。
which was uncharted for me.。
Uncharted for me, right?。
It was unfamiliar to me.。
And God, in his grace, gave me a verse.。
And this is the verse he gave me.。
He gave me Galatians 5, 25.。
And the verse is, "If we live by the Spirit,。
let us stay in step with the Spirit."。
If we live by the Spirit, let us stay in step with the Spirit.。
That's a great verse if you don't know where you're going,。
which I didn't, right?。
My dad, who's a medical missionary for half his life,。
and then he's a microbiologist.。
And so, second half, he was as a dean of science。
in a university.。
But he liked to paraphrase this Galatians 5, 25.。
And he would say this, "If the Lord is the source。
of your life, let him direct the course of your life."。
So if the Lord, or the Spirit, is the source of your life,。
then let him direct the course of your life.。
And I think this is quite beautiful.。
So I thought, you know, I'd put dad there on Father's Day.。
Thought he might like being with Augustine。
and fellow of Alexandria, dad of Austin.。
So, but he's right.。
Then, another little vignette that might be helpful for you。
in understanding the passage really comes。
from on HKU campus a few years ago.。
We were introducing the service aspect。
of the character leadership program.。
So we're trying to teach, there's about 600 students。
involved in the program now, all four years.。
It's going to a two-year program next year,。
or actually started this year.。
And, but we're trying to teach them character leadership.。
How do you develop your character?。
One of those ways that we were doing it at the beginning。
was really to have service projects.。
Because obviously, if you're serving someone else,。
then you're building your character.。
And we tell our students, it's not about you.。
If you think it's about you,。
you're never gonna be happy, right?。
If you think it's about another,。
you have a chance of finding that happiness.。
So, but we thought, who can we ask to come and speak to us。
on service leadership, right?。
And so we immediately thought of Jackie Pullinger, right?。
Now what you may not know is that Jackie Pullinger。
has an honorary doctorate from HKU.。
So that works really well.。
But she also, and most importantly,。
has dedicated her life and is continuing to serving others.。
And so we invited her to come on.。
And so we were interviewing her.。
So there's a stage, and if you imagine。
you're all the students, and then there's up here,。
my co-leader was interviewing her, Frances Choi.。
So Frances Choi starts the interview by talking to Jackie,。
and he says, "Jackie, you have done so much in your life,。
"and you are doing so much in your life.。
"You must be a very driven person."。
And then Jackie says this.。
She says, "I'm not driven, I'm led."。
Now if you know Jackie, you know how she said that, right?。
"I'm not driven, I'm led."。
And that makes all the difference, if you think about it.。
And for our students, it really struck home,。
because they feel driven.。
They feel driven to meet the expectations of others.。
They feel driven to get the best job.。
They feel driven.。
It ran home to me.。
I'm like taking notes in the back, right?。
Because sometimes I feel driven.。
And maybe it resonates with you.。
Maybe there's parts of you that feel more driven than led.。
But in Jesus Christ, we are not driven, we are led.。
Amen?。
Very simple.。
Jesus as a good leader condensed it down。
to two words of what we're supposed to do.。
Follow me.。
That's the plan.。
That was the plan then, that's the plan now,。
is that we follow him.。
We are not driven by him, we are led by him.。
And Galatians 5.25 has this imagery of a dance, right?。
And it's like stay in step with the Holy Spirit.。
So the Holy Spirit's dancing, and we're staying in step.。
Some years ago, Miriam and I thought we would do。
a couple dancing course, and it was fun.。
We had a fun time doing it.。
But we had a problem because it was couples dancing,。
so someone has to lead, right?。
And we're both leaders, so this was a trouble, right?。
No one wanted to follow.。
But it's not a question in the Holy Spirit.。
We follow the Holy Spirit, and trust me,。
he has a better plan than I do or you do, right?。
So we follow the Holy Spirit.。
Now, think about those two things,。
following the Holy Spirit, think about we're not driven,。
we're not led, and then let's read through the rest。
of this passage as we get into it.。
So we begin again, and we pick up with verse 27.。
When the jailer woke and he saw that the prison doors。
were open, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself,。
supposing that the prisoners had escaped.。
But Paul cried out with a loud voice,。
"Do not harm yourself, for we are all here."。
And the jailer called for lights and rushed in,。
and trembling with fear, the jailer fell down。
before Paul and Silas.。
This is a turn of events.。
And then he brought them out and said,。
"Sirs, what must I do to be saved?"。
And that word there, saved, literally means,。
it means rescued, it means wholeness,。
complete healing, well-being, it means life overflowing,。
as Carla was talking earlier.。
What must I do to be saved?。
And they said, "Believe," and that word is literally trust,。
"in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved,。
"you and your household."。
And they spoke the word of the Lord to him.。
Do you see how this and is working?。
It doesn't say Paul or Timothy,。
they're just working together.。
They spoke the word of the Lord to him.。
And he took them the same hour of the night,。
and he washed their wounds, and he was baptized.。
So now we're seeing a conversion experience。
of the jailer, right?。
He's making reparations, he's making right for his wrongs,。
he's washing them, there's the water of baptism,。
then it goes on, and he invites them into their home,。
there's hospitality, he sets food on the table for them,。
right, this is where we like it as Hong Kongers, right?。
There's food now, and of course, when food comes,。
then also joy comes, right?。
And then it says after that, then there's joy, joy,。
unbelievable joy, and I don't think we talk enough。
about joy and salvation together, but there's joy.。
When I came to the Lord in northern Nigeria,。
it just was an experience that I knew this is right,。
and there was joy.。
So let me say this, if there's anyone here。
who has not yet said, "I wanna follow him,"。
like we've just heard, why not now?。
Why not even today if the Lord is speaking to you?。
Because there's always this invitation, follow me.。
And all we have to do is kinda crack the window。
a little bit of our hearts, and this joy and change。
and rightness comes sweeping in.。
But we do have to act, we do have to say yes,。
'cause he's not someone who's gonna force himself on anyone.。
And so we say yes, it's the easiest thing in the world to do。
'cause all you have to do is give everything to Jesus.。
It's the hardest thing in the world to do。
'cause all you have to do is give everything to Jesus.。
But trust me, it's worth it.。
And if you're online, also you're invited.。
But most of us in this room probably have said yes.。
And we've been following, sometimes it's been in the dark,。
sometimes we're not sure exactly where it's going,。
Jesus is going, but we followed him.。
And so the dance for us is not the dance of salvation,。
the dance for us is the dance of staying in step。
on a daily basis.。
Now if the dance metaphor is not working for you,。
that's fine, we can choose another one,。
you can say like music with maybe it's an orchestra。
and the leader is guiding everybody。
from what could be cacophony to beautiful music and joy.。
Maybe it's basketball, maybe you're imagining。
that you're part of the Pacers, you're part of the Thunder。
and you're kind of tracking that。
and they're just moving so beautifully in step。
with each other, maybe it's just you're taking a walk。
and you're with someone you love and you're just in step.。
Whatever, the call for all of us is to stay in step。
with the Holy Spirit.。
So how do we do that?。
So I'm just gonna tell you one way that I have found helpful。
and offer it to you.。
Here's one way we can do it.。
We go back to Galatians 5.25.。
Galatians 5.25, if we live by the Spirit,。
let us keep in step with the Spirit, okay?。
So here's how we work with it.。
So tomorrow, it's homework number three,。
sorry, I've gotta get out of the university, right?。
But anyway, there's homework number three,。
is tomorrow, when you go in, before you go in,。
so that would be today, if we live by the Spirit,。
let us keep in step with the Spirit, memorize it.。
Memorize it, it's easy to memorize.。
Actually better, learn it by heart。
because there's a difference.。
It's not just head knowledge, but learn it by heart.。
While you're memorizing it,。
thinking about how it applies in your life, right?。
That's step one.。
Step two, you go in, you sit down wherever you are,。
or you stand up wherever you are at work,。
and you just say a prayer.。
Jesus, help me stay in step with you today.。
And then just keep your eyes open.。
Attentiveness is one of the highest forms of love.。
So be attentive to the movements of the Holy Spirit tomorrow。
as you love Jesus, right?。
And just see what happens.。
Sometimes what I find is I just run into random people.。
They're not random at all,。
but they're people I did not expect to run into on campus,。
but I do.。
And then maybe a thought comes, or a call comes,。
or a text comes, or I feel prompted。
to send a text of encouragement to someone.。
That's part of the dance.。
That's part of staying in step with the Holy Spirit.。
So I found that helpful, and I offer it to you.。
Something that I think the Spirit can give us.。
Spirit is spiritual, but very practical.。
(silence)。
So where did Jesus go?。
That was the question.。
And sometimes the best questions come from children.。
Out of the mouth of babes, we get this beautiful wisdom.。
It's a tough question.。
But I have found that if I am going through those times,。
if I ask and find my and,。
seek and find my and, then it's better.。
Don't do life alone.。
And then I've also found that if I choose to sing,。
then it is a choice that I can make。
by the power of the Holy Spirit。
and the grace of the Holy Spirit.。
And then, stay in step.。
We are not driven in Jesus Christ.。
We are led.。
Let him lead you into this beautiful life that is life.。
Amen?。
Okay, will you pray with me?。
We're just gonna take some time of giving you time。
to pray if you want to pray.。
If you're not a follower, either online or here,。
that's okay.。
I mean, you can still pray if you want to,。
or you can just reflect on what we've been talking about.。
But if you're here and you're a follower of Jesus Christ,。
if there was something that spoke to you,。
maybe more than other, go there.。
And when you go there,。
begin to have a conversation with God.。
So let me pray for you as you start that conversation.。
Jesus, I pray for humility,。
that in whatever that there place is for us,。
we would be humble to receive。
and to know that we need to receive.。
And I pray for courage,。
courage that we would then receive。
and courage that we can know what to do.。
You tell us that blessed are those who don't hear,。
but blessed are those who do the word of God.。
We want to be blessed, Jesus.。
So just where you are, heart to heart with God,。
quiet your conversation.。
Let's pray to God.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
