In the summer of 2002, I was driving south on Highway 1 from Monterey, California.。
And I pulled up on the side of the road, I started hiking up this trail, this familiar trail in the coastal mountains.。
Now if you're not familiar with California, and particularly that stretch of California,。
it is some of the most beautiful central coastline there is.。
I mean it is absolutely beautiful.。
There is redwood trees, there is wildlife, there is the Pacific Ocean, and you have incredible views.。
And so I wanted to go and hike to this bench that had an amazing view.。
And I wanted to spend some time there with God, to pray, to hear from Him, to seek Him.。
And so as I finally made my way up to this bench, which was quite a hike,。
I sat down on it, and I noticed that there was a plaque on the bench.。
Now one of those planks that usually mentions who donated to the bench.。
So as I was reading the plaque, it said, "There has been a change of plans."。
And I just had to smile, because that summed up my life in the last year.。
You know, God had spoken to me, and unexpectedly there was a change of plans。
that had turned things upside down for me.。
Now, we, as Christians, we all, in one way or another, experience God speaking to us,。
giving us words, giving us new direction.。
And that can look different ways for different people.。
I know for some of you, that has meant joining this church plant,。
where there was a word at the beginning when we announced we're going to plant a church in Yulong,。
and some of you felt a stirring, this word from God, to be part of this community。
and be part of the work that God wanted to do here.。
So God spoke to you in that way, and I believe for many of you it was unexpected,。
because you didn't know we were going to do that.。
Then that might be in your workplace, that God maybe calls you into a different workplace,。
or He calls you into doing something differently in your workplace than you have done it before.。
And so what I want to do in this message, I want to explore with you today a question.。
And the question is, how can we say yes to God's work in our lives and be open to His leading?。
How do we do that?。
How do we say yes and surrender ourselves to what God is saying to us and then walk in it?。
Easier said than done, right?。
Yes.。
So we're continuing in our Advent Sermon series, "Surprising Joy."。
Now you might wonder, what does a change of plans have to do with joy?。
Those two might not go together in your mind.。
So I want to say a little bit about that.。
A lot of times when God does have a word for us, speaks to us about something,。
initially it's not easy.。
Actually, a lot of times we complain when God gives us a new word.。
And we're like, "Oh, no, I don't think this is God. I think this is from somebody else.。
I don't want this."。
And then we wrestle with it.。
And it's only a lot of times later when we actually walk in obedience to that word。
that there is a surprising joy that comes.。
So that's where we're going to head today.。
And so I just felt like I should say this up front because a lot of times you don't associate change。
with surprising joy.。
So today we're going to pick up where Pastor John left off last week.。
We looked last week at the story of Zachariah and Elizabeth and how God met them.。
They had been praying for a child, and God met Zachariah in the temple,。
and he promised them that Elizabeth would be with child,。
that he would prepare the way of the Lord.。
And then at the end of the passage that we looked at last week,。
this incredible miracle happened because Elizabeth was barren,。
so she hadn't been able to conceive.。
And now in old age, she was found to be pregnant.。
And so we talked about these desert and barren seasons in which God meets us。
and where he can surprise us with joy, even on the ones where we've given up on,。
where we stop believing that God can meet us in those places.。
So today we're going to pick up literally at the verse where we left off last time.。
So we are in Luke 1:26.。
So let me read it to you.。
"In the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth,。
a town in Galilee, to a virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph,。
a descendant of David.。
The virgin's name was Mary.。
The angel went to her and said, 'Greetings, you who are highly favored.。
The Lord is with you.'。
Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be."。
So in the previous passage, the angel met Zechariah in the temple。
as he was doing his priestly service.。
And so now we hear that the angel is meeting Mary in Galilee in a town of Nazareth.。
One took place in a place of prominence and of importance that people would perceive。
in a temple, you know, it's the center of the worship of Israel.。
The other one literally took place in the middle of nowhere.。
And as a matter of fact, Nazareth was so insignificant。
that it's not even mentioned in the Old Testament.。
When Philip was introducing Nathaniel in the Gospel of John to Jesus of Nazareth,。
Nathaniel responded, "Nazareth? Can anything good come from there?"。
So on top of not being significant, it didn't even have a good reputation.。
So we see that it's quite an extreme contrast of where the angel meets Zechariah。
and where he meets Mary.。
So perhaps it's actually important for us today to be reminded。
that God doesn't just show up in the moments like just at church,。
even though he does do that too, but he shows up in our everyday moments,。
even in mundane ones where we think he isn't there.。
Because for God, every place, every moment is sacred and he is everywhere.。
And he often meets us in unexpected places during unexpected times.。
I sense we need to hear that because sometimes we feel like we need to go。
to a certain place to hear from God, but God can speak to you where you are.。
He can speak to you in the season that you are in in your life.。
So I guess the question is, are we ready, right, to hear?。
Well, next we were introduced to Mary and we're told that she is pledged to be married to Joseph.。
Now, Luke doesn't explain what "pledged" means.。
Another word for this would be she's betrothed.。
So what that meant in a cultural context is that Mary's father has agreed。
that Joseph is allowed to marry Mary and Joseph has paid her a bridal price.。
And Mary has as of yet not moved in with Joseph, so that's the pledging period,。
the period in between. So that's what's going on there.。
And so the angel tells Mary in verse 28, "Greetings, you who are highly favored.。
The Lord is with you."。
But then we're told that Mary is troubled, not at his presence,。
but she's actually troubled at his words.。
Interesting, right?。
I think if an angel shows up, I would freak out because there's an angel there.。
Maybe he could handle the words more, but she is freaked out or troubled by his words, by what he says.。
So let's think about that a little bit more.。
Why is Mary troubled?。
What's so troubling about what the angel says?。
Now, imagine you have an ambassador of the president of some important country.。
You can choose your country. Everyone have a country?。
Yes? Okay, good.。
And then the person comes to you in your home, comes to you in your workplace,。
and they say, "Greetings, Derek, you who are highly favored."。
And you're like, "Okay, hi."。
And if I would be greeted this way, "Greetings, Tim, you who are highly favored,"。
I'm like, "Did the angel or did the ambassador, is he getting the right Tim?。
I'm waiting for somebody else because I'm not at the center of power.。
I don't think that any ambassador or any president has any message for me.。
And so why in the world would that guy or that woman show up and give me this strange message?。
Because I don't perceive myself as somebody who would get this type of message."。
And that's how Mary must have felt, that she didn't feel like she was the type of person。
who would get this type of message from God.。
"You who are highly favored, the Lord is with you."。
Because she didn't perceive herself in that way,。
that she would be the type of person who would receive this type of message.。
She was a teenage girl, probably 12, 13 years old.。
At that time, women got engaged and married.。
She was young. She was in an insignificant town.。
She was seen by her contemporary society as insignificant.。
And yet here, this messenger from God shows up in her house and delivers her this message.。
So this is a lot to process.。
Are you sure you have the right person?。
But when God, through His Word and His Spirit, sort of breaks into our mundane, our everyday life,。
I think a lot of us can relate to how Mary feels.。
Like, are you sure you have the right person?。
Are you sure you're asking the right person to do this, whatever He's asking you to do?。
Because a lot of times we don't think that we're the right person.。
We don't feel like we're qualified.。
We don't think we have what it takes or whatever God brings our way.。
We think this message must be for somebody else.。
And so there is just a lot to process.。
So how would you feel when God has a word for you and meets you and speaks to you?。
Well, let's continue in our passage.。
It says, in verse 30, it says this, "But the angel said to her, 'Do not be afraid, Mary.。
You have found favor with God.。
You will conceive and give birth to a son, and you are to call him Jesus.。
He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High.。
The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David,。
and he will reign over Jacob's descendants forever.。
His kingdom will never end.'"。
How will this be, Mary asked the angel, since I'm a virgin?。
So the angel's message reassures Mary, "Do not be afraid."。
So there was some fear in this encounter.。
The words stirred fear in her, and he reassures her, "Don't be afraid.。
You have found favor with God."。
Notice the second time that the angel mentions favor.。
First she was highly favored.。
Now he says, "You are favored."。
What does that mean, to be favored by God?。
Does it mean you're God's favorite, like the only favorite?。
Well, having God's favor means that God is showing you grace.。
He's showing you his goodness, his mercy.。
A lot of times when we think of grace, we think of forgiveness.。
And that is one of the most amazing graces, like the song says,。
that we can receive in our lives, that we know the grace of Jesus, his forgiveness.。
But God's grace is much bigger than that.。
His favor is much bigger than that.。
Now here in Mary's instance, the favor is also that God is involving her in her work, in his work.。
That God is inviting her into being part of this beautiful thing that God is doing.。
That's also God's favor, that he invites us into the things that he is doing.。
And he does it with every Christian in different ways.。
There's also God's favor, God's grace in that.。
But it also means that he will provide what is needed.。
He promises Mary his presence.。
He's going to be with her. The Lord is with you.。
She's not going to be alone in what he's asking her to do.。
He's going to provide for her what she needs to carry out what he's asking her to carry out.。
So that's also the favor and the grace of God.。
And of course, the biggest favor that we experience is that we become part of the family of God.。
You know, that we are children of God.。
And God's grace we can never earn.。
We don't deserve it.。
But it's just something that he loves to give when we come to him and when we receive this gift.。
And it's the same with these things that he brings to us.。
It's a gift of grace.。
We can reject it or we can receive it.。
And just trust that he is with us and that he will give us what we need to do whatever he's inviting us into.。
Now Mary finds also out some of the details of what it means to be highly favored.。
Probably not what we would associate with being highly favored.。
Or maybe in some ways yes, in some ways no.。
She is told that she will bear a son.。
And through what the angel Gabriel says, it's also very clear that this will be the Messiah.。
He's actually quoting verses from 2 Samuel 7 where there's a promise to King David。
that he will have a descendant who will reign on his throne forever.。
And so Mary knew this.。
And so she's understanding, wow, process that information, right?。
Who can process that?。
So she learns a little bit about the identity of the child that she will have.。
And suddenly also the name Jesus, Yeshua, takes on a different significance.。
It's a common name during Jesus' time actually, the name Jesus.。
But it means God saves, God heals.。
That's literally what Jesus was going to do.。
He had come to save the world from their sins and to restore them back to the Father.。
Restore us back to the Father.。
Wow, what an incredible word for Mary.。
Now there's two shocking things in here, right?。
Actually, it's probably more than that, but I'm just going to talk about two.。
The first one is that she is going to give birth to the expected, the longed-for Messiah,。
the one that Israel has been waiting for, the rescuer, the redeemer.。
Wow, that's a message.。
And probably very personally shocking to her is that she's going to have a child, but she is a virgin.。
She has had no sexual relationships with a man.。
Wow.。
Now there's precedent in the Bible for God blessing families with children, you know,。
deep down the line when they thought they couldn't conceive and God does a miracle,。
like we saw with Zachariah and Elizabeth, that she was barren, but he did a miracle and gave them a child.。
But there is no precedent for what's going to happen with Mary,。
where somebody who is not yet married, who is pledged but not yet married,。
and who is a virgin and is told that she will have a child.。
So Mary has some questions.。
I think we can all understand that, right?。
If that was coming to all the women in here your way, you would have some questions.。
Like how, Lord, what, how does this work?。
And so what I love is that Mary actually brings her question to God。
by asking the angel who is the representative for God in this case.。
How will this be since I am a virgin?。
Now I want us to notice that.。
You know, she could have just said, no thanks, moved on,。
but she chooses to actually to engage with a question, just wanting to understand, Lord.。
I want to understand how is this possible? How will this be?。
Can you help me? I need to understand this.。
You're asking me to do this. Can you help me understand this?。
That's actually an act of faith.。
There's maybe some questions, some doubts in there.。
But she's trying to understand.。
And that faith of trying to understand that honors God.。
So let's see how, actually, what the response is.。
So in verse 35, let's go there.。
It says this, "The angel answered, 'The Holy Spirit will come on you,。
and the power of the Mosaic will overshadow you.。
So the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of God.。
Even Elizabeth, your relative, is going to have a child in her old age.。
And she who was said to be unable to conceive is in the sixth month.。
For no word from God will ever fail.'"。
Now, what I love is that Mary asked a question,。
God actually gives her an answer.。
He actually does respond to her question.。
Now, God invites us always to ask Him questions.。
Whether we think they're big or small, we can bring any question to Him.。
When He asks us to do something, when there's a word that breaks in,。
or even for anything in your life, God welcomes questions.。
God invites them.。
Now, we don't always get an answer immediately.。
In this case, Mary gets an answer immediately.。
A lot of times it comes later.。
A lot of times it's not the answer that we expect.。
But she does get an answer.。
And the answer is that the Holy Spirit will come upon her.。
It's the same Spirit of God who is part of God's creation。
who will create this child within her and will do this miracle within her.。
So that's the answer that she gets.。
And the angel then shares a powerful truth with Mary.。
And I think she really needed to hear this word to be able to cope with all that she's being told.。
And it's in verse 37.。
I have two translations.。
One says, "For no word from God will ever fail."。
You know, what I'm saying is going to come to pass.。
God's Word never fails.。
It never returns void.。
Another way to translate it is, "For nothing will be impossible with God."。
You know, nothing is impossible with God.。
Now, what Mary heard seemed impossible.。
But God is ensuring her.。
Nothing is impossible with God.。
And if God calls you to something, if he asks you to do something, you know, it is possible.。
And we lose sight of--we get caught up with the impossible.。
And we focus on that.。
And we get fearful and we get stuck on that.。
But I believe that the angel is giving this word to Mary because she needs to be reminded of who God is, who is making this ask.。
It's not just anyone.。
It's not, you know, somebody, a relative asking her, you know, this question.。
It's God.。
The creator of the universe.。
The almighty with all power who has no limitations.。
He can create things out of nothing.。
And so she needs to remember who God is.。
Now, this is the biggest news that I think I can imagine dropping into somebody's lap.。
Right?。
What a message to receive for a teenage girl in the middle of nowhere.。
And Mary, she must have been aware of all the shame and all the talking of people that would be involved in that.。
Now, here she is pregnant.。
You can't hide your pregnancy.。
And people can see it.。
And in a cultural context, there was a huge stigma on that.。
Actually, it was even theoretically punishable by death.。
Now, at that time, that was not usually exercised.。
But it was a very serious matter.。
And who would believe her if she explains, well, God told me that the Holy Spirit, you know, will create his child within me.。
Who's going to believe that?。
As a matter of fact, Joseph didn't believe her, the man that she was engaged with.。
He didn't believe her.。
When he found out that she was pregnant, he wanted to quietly divorce her.。
It was only when the angel appeared to Joseph that he believed Mary.。
So this is a very costly ask.。
I mean, it's not an easy thing that God is inviting Mary into.。
Now, of course, it's also incredible, and I don't want to lose sight of that as well,。
like that she gets to give birth to the savior of this world.。
She gets to give birth to the messiah they long for, you know, rescue and redeem and king.。
But it's both of these things.。
And a lot of times when we hear this Christmas narrative over and over again,。
for those of you who have been in church for quite a while, it's easy to forget the shocking nature, you know, of this ask, right?。
I mean, it's not an easy ask.。
So how does Mary respond to this?。
Well, we can read about that in verse 38.。
She says, "I am the Lord's servant," Mary answered.。
"May your word to me be fulfilled."。
Then the angel left her.。
"I am the Lord's servant. May your word to me be fulfilled."。
Wow.。
What faith and courage from this teenage girl.。
You know, make herself available, God, to surrender to him, to trust him,。
that he will provide what is needed in this very difficult circumstance that she will have to be walking through.。
But she has faith, and God has assured her, and she believes this assurance.。
She believes that nothing is impossible with God.。
She believes that the Lord is with her.。
And so she takes this step of faith and surrenders and makes herself available.。
I mean, it's just incredible.。
Now, what about us?。
What if God brings us a word, asks us to do something?。
What if there is a change of plans that he has for you?。
Which brings us back to the opening question.。
How can we say yes to God's work in our lives and be open to his leading?。
How can we be like Mary and just say, "I am the Lord's servant. May your word to me be fulfilled."。
Now, earlier I started off with a story of going to a bench and sitting on this bench that said,。
"There has been a change of plans."。
Now, what had happened?。
Well, I was in my early 20s.。
I was working as a financial advisor for Morgan Stanley in Monterey, California.。
And I was attending Santa Cruz Bible Church.。
Santa Cruz where all the surfing and all that happens, also an exciting place.。
And in that church, they had a tradition where every year they had a missions month。
where they had missionaries, mission partners that they supported that came.。
They preached. They shared about the work that they did.。
And the first Sunday, I'm listening to, I can't remember who it was, who was preaching.。
And I'm just wrecked.。
I have tears in my eyes, which I think might have been the first time I had tears in my eyes in church in my life.。
And I'm like trying to figure out what's happening to me.。
Like what's going on?。
What does this mean?。
So I talked to a friend and he's like, "Well, I think God might be asking you to do something or so."。
I said, "Oh, interesting."。
So I prayed over there, talked to some friends about this.。
Next Sunday, same thing.。
Tears.。
I was like, "Oh, my God, what does this mean?"。
Third Sunday, even worse.。
It's like snot.。
You know, like we're talking like the full weeping and things.。
And I'm just like, "What in the world?"。
But on that third Sunday, I was very clear that God was calling me to serve him.。
I didn't understand how.。
I wasn't really on that trajectory.。
But I also had the strong sense that I actually needed to quit my job.。
That's kind of a scary move.。
So that day, I don't remember when, I think it was right after the service.。
It's a long time ago.。
I drove to the office, cleared out my office.。
The next day, I came in not with a suit, but in my casual clothes.。
I walked to my boss, and I told him that God was asking me to do something。
and that I needed to quit my job.。
And my boss actually commended me for my courage.。
He's like, "Wow, that's a courageous thing to do."。
But he also told me, "Don't show up at another investment firm。
because we invested a lot of money in you.。
If you show up somewhere else, we need to charge you for that."。
I was like, "Okay, I'm very sorry. I'm sorry, sorry."。
Okay, so now I quit my job.。
I don't have a job, but I don't know what I'm doing.。
And actually, one important part of the story is,。
which I didn't realize at that time, and I think that that's not normal,。
like right away quitting your job, so just saying that.。
But what I realized was that I was about to invest a lot of money。
for somebody I knew.。
Actually, I was already in process in the making.。
And if that would have gone through, I could have not backed out.。
I would have been stuck in my workplace.。
And so I actually even went back to the office, told the cashier,。
"Hey, when this check comes in, can you let me know so I can get it,。
send it back to the people?"。
So this was also part of God's time.。
He pulled me out this last second before I was so committed。
that there was no way out.。
And there really would have been no immediate way out.。
So I didn't tell my parents about this because I knew what they would say,。
so then I did call them, and they were freaked out.。
"You are making the biggest mistake of your life.。
This is the second job you're quitting。
within not too long a period of time.。
People are going to think you're flaky.。
Nobody will ever want to hire you again."。
Thank you, Mom and Dad, for the encouragement.。
But honestly, just true feelings from a parent, right?。
Being worried about their son who's just starting his career life.。
And so I started freaking out.。
Did I hear God wrong?。
Did I make a big mistake?。
And so I needed to bring those fears and questions to God.。
So I prayed, "God, can you just help me understand this?"。
I also prayed that my parents would actually see that God had called me。
and was asking me to do something differently,。
that there was a change of plans.。
So then I ended up getting a different job in the meantime。
because I needed to pay my bills.。
And I applied for one of the organizations that I heard share。
on one of the Mission Sundays.。
So I ended up going with an organization called Mercy Ships,。
a medical mission ship bringing hope and healing,。
most of the time along the west coast of Africa.。
So I joined them in Sierra Leone and in Senegal.。
I did a discipleship training school there.。
Shout out to my YWAM friends here,。
where I served in the finance department half the time,。
attended that school, and then we had an outreach.。
So I did that.。
And during that time, God answered a lot of questions I had as well。
because I was like, "Do I even have what it takes to serve God in this way?"。
because I really didn't perceive or see myself in this way.。
Like I said, that was not my trajectory beforehand.。
All my friends were surprised at this.。
And so then I finished that time--。
and I'm going to wrap up the story in a second--。
and I felt like if God is asking me to do this,。
I probably need to study, go to seminary, get some education.。
But I had borrowed a lot of money from my parents to do this mercy ship thing。
because I didn't have much time to raise funds,。
so I owed them quite a bit of money.。
And they were like, "Yeah, you're going to pay that back."。
So I was like, "God, can you provide for me?"。
And I only applied to one seminary, and I got 100% scholarship.。
And for me, if you don't know seminaries, they don't give much scholarships.。
So for me, this was just incredible, God providing.。
So now I was in California.。
I was going there to clear up my stuff and move to Texas to go to seminary,。
but I was on this mountain, and all these things had happened.。
I was just amazed how God had changed my life and the plans for my life.。
Now, this is my messy journey,。
and certainly maybe I didn't do everything in the perfect way in that process,。
but that was just my journey.。
And I also want to be very clear.。
I believe that God doesn't call most people to be pastors or do mission work.。
I believe most people He calls us to workplaces。
where He has something specific He wants us to do in an organization,。
or He calls us in a family to do something there,。
or maybe through the church and the community.。
So I just also want to be very clear on that.。
But this brings us back to that question.。
If God speaks to us, how do we respond to His leading?。
Do we say yes to Him? Do we surrender to Him?。
Do we say, "Lord, not my way, but Your way"?。
And so I want to give six things to keep in mind when we respond to God's leading.。
When you sense that God is speaking to you and you're trying to process this,。
I want to give six things.。
So up here behind me.。
The first one is, ask, "Is this leading truly from God?"。
Now the last thing I want is that people are quitting their jobs,。
and two years later, they're like, "I quit the job because of your sermon,。
and nothing has happened. What's wrong with you?"。
So we do need to discern.。
Is this really God?。
And of course, looking at Scripture, this is in line with Scripture.。
But the other thing is, do talk to some trusted friends,。
your community group, your pastor.。
Stay with you. Ask them to give their perspective.。
People that love you, that know you.。
And get their input.。
Now ultimately, you still will own your decision.。
You'll take ownership of your decision.。
But do get the input from others.。
Invite them into the discerning process with you.。
That's the first thing.。
The second thing is, a lot of times when you do get a word from God。
where He asks us to do something, there is a lot of fear.。
There is complaining.。
"I don't want anything to change."。
And these fears that come up, they can drive us away from God,。
or they can actually draw us closer to God.。
And I just want to encourage you to engage with God.。
Bring your fears to God.。
Ask Him to meet you in that,。
as you're wrestling with what He's saying to you,。
as you're trying to figure out and make sense.。
Because it comes unexpected.。
We can't prepare for that God will suddenly speak to us in our house,。
in our workplace, and has this direction-changing word for us.。
Third thing, seek answers to your questions from God.。
Mary asked, "How will this be?"。
I had questions about my leadership.。
Can I even do this?。
Am I even the right type of person for this sort of stuff?。
Now Mary got an answer right away from me.。
It was like seven months, eight months later.。
But ask God questions.。
He welcomes our questions, and He does respond to us.。
Maybe not always in the timing when we want to.。
Maybe not even in the way that we want to,。
but He does respond to us.。
So bring your questions to God.。
Then the fourth one is surrender to God's will.。
There is a point where we actually have to make a decision.。
Are we going to say yes to what God wants to do?。
Are we going to be like Mary?。
I am the Lord's servant.。
May your word to me be fulfilled.。
Are we actually going to say that?。
Lord, I'm available.。
I trust you.。
Even though I don't understand everything, even though I don't know how to do everything,。
I'm just going to say yes to you because I know who you are.。
So there's that point where we actually have to make that decision.。
And then when fear arises, because it will along the way,。
I was freaked out when I talked to my parents.。
All their anxieties I suddenly felt.。
And I wondered myself, did I make the biggest mistake of my life?。
Did I hear God wrong?。
But what do we do when those fears start to overwhelm us。
and they start drowning us?。
Well, we need to look to God.。
Nothing is impossible with God.。
God is with us.。
Those were two affirmations to Mary.。
And we need to remember who God is.。
Now, when I was a youth pastor early on here in Hong Kong,。
I started off in one of the youth groups.。
And for a year, nothing was happening.。
And I really was struggling.。
Am I the right guy for this?。
And I wrestled.。
Did I hear you wrong?。
Am I in the wrong place?。
And God, as I was looking at God, I was like, no.。
God brought me here.。
This was not my idea.。
This was God's idea.。
And he knows me even better than I know myself.。
And he knows the people who are better than myself.。
And if this is his idea to have me here,。
then I must be the right person,。
and that really gave me comfort and courage.。
Just remember, God even understands me better than I understand myself.。
And then finally, we discover the joy that comes from walking in God's calling.。
Now, the joy doesn't come always right away.。
I'm sure that Mary initially,。
even though there was also excitement with the Messiah part,。
that it was quite costly, quite heavy to say yes to what God was asking of you.。
But even in this next, if you just read on a little bit,。
there's actually the Magnificat where Mary praises God,。
where there is joy.。
And so joy comes later,。
and it is that surprising joy of being obedient to God.。
It doesn't mean that what we're doing is easy.。
God asks us to do things that are outside of our comfort zone a lot of times,。
that are a lot of times challenging,。
that might never be super easy,。
but we can know his presence.。
We can know his power.。
We can know his goodness.。
And there is joy in also just being used by God,。
even if it's not easy.。
And so we're surprised by joy.。
Now, I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
And I don't know what your thinking has been。
or what you have been processing as I've been sharing a message on Mary。
and how she responded to this announcement from this angel。
that he gave her and even my own story.。
If there are some words from God that maybe you're right now wrestling with,。
maybe they're not,。
but I actually want to just encourage you even with these six points,。
if there's something that God is inviting you to do,。
I actually just want to give a moment for you to respond to God.。
And so why don't we do this right now?。
I'll just give a moment of just talking to God about what he's been speaking to you through the service,。
and then afterwards I'll pray for us.。
So why don't we do this?。
Just take a minute.。
