Father speak to us we pray amen amen thank you Justin and good morning if。
you're joining a line good morning to you too on it as always to be here and。
like Justin said we are wrapping up our Ephesians series today it's been a great。
journey through this book and I'm glad to be finishing off today so something I。
mean my my colleagues at the vine here know this very well people who know me。
know this quite well I'm in general I'm not a very serious person okay I mean。
like I'm serious about God's Word but my general demeanor is why you people are。
it's like Justin's you're not surprised okay like I like you know I like to play。
jokes I like to play pranks around the office you know there's a little bit of。
a reputation about the guy who like plays the practical jokes and people and。
all that kind of stuff the most often victim of these sort of sneak attacks。
with these practical jokes of course my wife okay so sometimes these strokes。
work well sometimes not so well okay this was one that works well okay take。
notes okay so um you turn on the shower okay you draw the curtain and so you。
know she thinks I'm in the shower okay the shower is going shh and then I call。
out but I actually I'm not in the shower I'm hiding under the sink okay so hey。
honey could you pass my toothbrush okay so she goes into the shower you know。
she's hey okay here's your toothbrush here you go here you go but no one's。
responding because there's no one behind there right so um she opens curtain no。
one says like what's happening and then right at that moment under the sink I。
grab her by the ankle ah okay and she screams okay that's a good one okay。
often it works okay sometimes however these jokes don't work so well okay I。
can was taking notes okay one time I saw my way we were out separately and we。
just happened my wife and I Brittany and I were coming home at the same time and。
so I thought a perfect opportunity I'm gonna play a prank on her and so you。
know with stealth like movements I went ahead of her and I hid behind you know。
sometimes you get one of those electrical boxes that sit on the side of。
the street so I hid behind one of those electrical boxes hoping that when she。
would walk past I would jump out and scare her and you'd be you know really。
funny okay problem was I was just focusing on like watching where she was。
going and not anything else around me right what I didn't notice was this。
light box was next to the bike path okay and so I was hiding behind she was。
walking past but as she was walking past and I jumped I was like boo and try to。
scare her a biker on his bike was coming full speed down and he hit me okay and。
so I go flying back onto the path my shoes fly off you know everything's。
crazy this guy is so understandably so angry he's like what are you doing you。
know starts asking about my mother all this kind of stuff okay I'm just like oh。
sorry I don't even know okay meanwhile okay Britney is there she's seen the。
whole thing apparently she saw me hide behind the light box like what's this。
person doing okay and then she saw me jump out get scared okay in the end I。
ended up with a fracture wrist and a trip to the ER right so yeah moral the。
story right do better when you're trying to scare your wife all right now I know。
that this is just a silly story but I want to illustrate something maybe you。
can think about this way as you go about life does it ever feel like you're under。
attack as you go about life does you ever feel like like there's something or。
someone out there who's trying to get you I mean what if I told you right now。
in this very moment we're actually in the middle of a battle that's being。
fought right it's just that you can't see what's happening all the time it's。
not something you can always see with your eyes or feel with your senses I'm。
not talking about tinfoil conspiracy theories or anything like that okay what。
we're talking about today is spiritual warfare let me lay a little bit of a。
definition before we go any further right throughout the Bible and throughout。
history right there is this belief and it's a biblical teaching as well that。
there is a spiritual realm right scholars sometimes call this an unseen。
realm right it exists side by side by this physical world this realm that。
we're living in right now and so the Bible teaches us they are spiritual。
beings right these beings were created by God just like human beings were。
they've been there since the beginning of this world and God created this these。
spiritual beings in order to help him rule the world that you know not it's a。
sort of an illustration of this could be you can picture God as like a CEO it's。
not the best example but you know he is a CEO he's the big boss okay and he has。
his staff team okay a council of these divine beings that were created to help。
him in his rule of the world however just like human beings rebelled his。
children wanted to be God instead of be God's children in the same way these。
spiritual beings also rebelled against God some of these beings also rebelled。
against God and instead of them enticing and turning and encouraging people to。
worship God they started to get people to worship them instead right and they。
crossed many boundaries get Genesis 6 - tells us it's the sons of God referring。
to these spiritual beings so that the daughters of humankind were beautiful。
thus they took wise for themselves from any they chose right this is the Bible。
teaching us how rebellious these beings have become they came down to earth right。
and had relations with humans all right it's kind of weird but it's in the Bible。
it's there right another example in the book of Job Job gives a really clear。
story a really clear picture about these rebellious spiritual beings having some。
sort of influence and power and authority on this earth right now the day。
came Job 1 when the sons of God again okay came to present themselves before。
the Lord and Satan also arrived among them the Lord said to Satan where have。
you come from and Satan answered the Lord from roving about on the earth and。
walking back and forth across it and as you know in the book of Job in the story。
of Job there's a season in Job's life right chaos and ruin permitted by God。
but all orchestrated by the enemy we could talk about this stuff forever if。
you want to talk more of it I love talking about this stuff okay take me out。
for a coffee and then we can talk more about it okay but the point I'm trying。
to make is this is that yes there really are dark and evil forces in this world。
and they are trying to do everything they can to sabotage to distract and to。
destroy your relationship with Jesus the enemy out there is out there and he is。
not a friend and I think this is especially relevant for the people in。
Ephesians of course but like the Ephesian city Hong Kong right is the。
city full of opportunity to turn to other spiritual sources for guidance。
right from things like Feng Shui to fortune tellers to the da si and the。
hitting small people down the road okay visiting temples to spin the wheel。
playing with Ouija boards all these are examples of how the enemy tries to。
capture our attention and so as followers of Jesus in this culture in。
this city we have to be very very careful because when we see these things。
it's not just a little bit of harmless fun like it's not harmless just to go to。
a fortune teller and so oh I'm interested in my love life can you tell。
me a little bit about that okay it's not okay it's not okay just to invite a。
Feng Shui master to come to your office and you know give you some tips on where。
you should put the fish tank and the tank and you should do this with the。
windows all that kind of stuff okay it's not okay because these practices are。
clearly not from God which means that the source of power is from a dark and。
evil place therefore as Christians as followers of Jesus right we should have。
nothing to do with these practices because like I said just now there's a。
fight happening between the forces of good and evil in these unseen realms。
unseen to us but definitely can have effect on our lives and even our souls。
and so this is why what we're talking about today is important in fact the。
whole letter of Ephesians Paul has been preparing his readers for this moment。
throughout the letter Paul has called them has encouraged them to challenge。
them in the way they live their lives right to be countercultural to live in a。
way that reflects the fact that we are followers of Jesus to live in a way that。
puts the power of God at work in display right a power so strong Paul says it's。
able to do more than we can ever ask or imagine right this is the power that we。
carry as followers of Jesus and as followers of Jesus everybody is invited。
into this community so another thing Paul reminds us off we've been called to。
live in radical unity doesn't matter who you are slave free Greek Jew doesn't。
matter man male female everyone has been called into this community to live in。
radical unity serving each other submitting to each other working with。
each other for the glory of God Paul also reminds us that we have been brought。
out of the darkness into the light that we were once dead but now we are alive。
in the love of Christ and because of this everything we do should be done in。
the name of our Lord Jesus Christ and so what here is what Paul's saying here's。
what scripture is saying if we're really gonna live like this if we take these。
words seriously if we're going to take this series I've been walking through。
and apply it to our lives then you best believe we're going to expect some。
opposition from the enemy because the enemy will attack and when he does if。
we're not ready if we're not equipped to take a stand and to fight back in some。
way we'll be in trouble but here's the other thing and this is the encouraging。
part we don't need to freak out and be super scared about this because as we're。
about to find out God has given us everything we need not only to withstand。
against enemy but to fight back against his schemes listen to these ending words。
of this letter Ephesians 6 10 finally be strong in the Lord and in his mighty。
power put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the。
devil schemes for our struggle is not against flesh and blood but against the。
rulers against the authorities against the powers of this dark world and。
against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms therefore put on the。
full armor of God so that when the day of evil comes you may be able to stand。
your ground and after you have done everything to stand stand firm then with。
the belt of truth buckled around your waist with a breastplate of breastplate。
of righteousness in place and with your feet fitted with the readiness that。
comes from the gospel of peace in addition to all this take up the shield。
of faith with you with which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the。
evil one take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit which is the。
Word of God and pray in the Spirit on all occasions with all kinds of prayers。
and requests with this in mind be alert and always keep on praying for all the。
Lord's people pray also for me that whenever I speak words may be given to。
me so that I will fiercely fearlessly make known the mystery of the gospel for。
which I am an ambassador in chains pray that I might declare it fiercely as I。
should it's a beautiful passage it's well known it's descriptive but it's。
also super practical so we're going to walk through this together hand in hand。
okay and see how it quips us for this battle we have ahead well Paul starts。
with this it starts with telling us to be strengthened it starts with strength。
whatever battle you're fighting in it's always going to require strength but。
notice here the strength the source of this strength where's the strength coming。
from this is not a strength we must up in ourselves right Paul is calling us to。
be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power our own efforts will only ever get。
us so far in this battle if we want to prevail if we want to stand firm we have。
to know what it means to be strong and live in his power in God's power right。
this the Psalmist refers to this all the time as you read to the Psalm time and。
time again right my refuge is the Lord God is the strength of my heart Jesus。
reminds his followers of this before he dies he told us disciples without me you。
can do nothing so church let us ask ourselves this morning what is the。
source of your strength it's easy to rely on all sorts of other kind of。
things right some of us are pretty physically fit and strong that's great。
right some of us are super smart you know we have we have the brains and。
that's really good some of us have resources and money and all that kind of。
stuff that's a source of strength but all of these earthly sources will never。
be enough in this battle because that it says our battle is not against flesh and。
blood so the first step of today the first thing we need to do is as we fight。
this battle together is to find your strength in the Lord and his mighty。
power and how do we do that what the strength in the Lord look like well。
actually I think that answer is quite simple strength in the Lord is total。
surrender to him to do what he says to be obedient to God strengthen the Lord。
is what Paul reminds us of early in chapter 3 to live as Christ is dwelling。
in our hearts through faith surrendering to the Lord walking in obedience with。
him that's where we find our strength so after we've been strengthened we are。
empowered by the Lord's strength then we're instructed to put on the full。
armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's evil schemes。
for our struggle is not against flesh and blood but against the rulers and。
authorities the dark powers of this world and against the spiritual forces。
of evil in the heavenly realms put on so this is actually action we have to take。
now to put on right it's not just a display piece in the museum for you to。
admire and to look at you actually have to put this on again time and time。
throughout the book of Ephesians Paul is encouraging us to put things on right to。
take off the old self to put on the new self now we're being encouraged to put。
on the armor of God and in a battle you're going to need armor but notice。
again the source of this armor it's the armor of God not your own armor not your。
own ideas we put on these things because the source of them is from God and we。
put it on so we can take a stand against the devil schemes just as Jesus has good。
plans for your life for you to have life and life in the full to live a life free。
from the chains of sin the enemy also has schemes for your life too and when。
it comes to talking about the enemy schemes I think it can go a few ways。
right one idea one perspective of this is that we refuse to believe that these。
things are actually happening right we find it too weird maybe even sitting。
here right now say this is weird Ellison I brought a friend today you're talking。
about this woo-woo stuff okay like focus on something else okay so we just ignore。
it right we don't want to talk about it it's weird and we ignore it sometimes。
though we might trivialize it right this is sort of picturing the devil as you。
know a man in a red spandex suit with a dodgy mustache holding a pitchfork you。
know it's like kind of looks kind of comical and yeah you know the mentality。
is that yeah it might be some weird stuff like that out there but you know。
it's no one takes it that seriously it's just a bit of fun you know in fact you。
know it might even be interesting to see what happens there sometimes right so。
there's that perspective maybe some of us though live in constant fear of the。
enemy's attack right and so everything we do we interpret it through the lens。
of it's a spiritual attack on me everything that happens anything bad。
that happens it's a spiritual attack on me like I said that I would talk about。
this a bit more in a minute right and so um you know we ends up being trapped in。
fear about the enemy's attack around every corner is a devil waiting to。
attack me and then maybe there's some of us who have really crossed that line who。
have shown too much of an interest and actually been drawn into the powers of。
this dark and evil world and we found ourself in some really really dark and。
scary and evil places all these though have one thing in common what the scheme。
of the enemy is trying to do is to keep your eyes off of Jesus to keep you in。
the dark to feed you lies to stop your worry and your anxiety in your life and。
I think one of the most popular thing he does is that the enemy loves to make。
evil look attractive the enemy loves to think that sin and living outside of。
God's will disobedience is something that we can just control for ourselves。
right sin is like this a little pet like a little thing we can play with when we。
get bored of it we can put it away but you know it's it's harmless I'm just。
gonna you know hang out with this thing for a little bit but this is always how。
it starts and this quote I got in my research for this message you know。
illustrates it so well it says this evil rarely looks evil until it accomplishes。
its goal it gains entrance by appearing attractive desirable and perfectly。
legitimate but it is a baited and camouflage trap let's be wise Church。
let's not be fools one Peter 5 8 tells us the enemy the devil prowls around。
like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour and sin and disobedience will。
absolutely destroy your lives now and even for all eternity but this is why we。
call it a battle right life as a Christian is a struggle because even。
though when we're aware these things that there's evil out there there is a。
draw to it right this is the port the word Paul uses for struggle here it's。
actually the word the same word for like a physical wrestling match right。
wrestling was one of the popular sports in the back in the day right like a。
jujitsu thing they're doing you know it feels like that sometimes right when。
you're wrestling against sin someone's trying to get your back trying to twist。
your arm trying to choke you out maybe it's a bit like this in more practical。
ways when temptation comes up lots of different examples of this but for。
example one thing that I find myself wrestling sometimes right late at night。
you're tired everyone's asleep and it's finally time for yourself you're trying。
to settle down what are things some things that pop up to mind in that。
moment oh you feel tired you know you've you've had a long day turn to this。
go on to that website have that extra drink that you don't need maybe it's。
drugs maybe it's gambling maybe it's an out-of-control shopping habit something。
like that and in those moments if you do not have on the armor of God if you are。
not strong in the Lord the enemy will get the better of you which is why Paul。
says and put on the full armor of God so that when that day of evil comes when。
those moments come you may be able to stand your ground and after you've done。
everything to stand it's like me trying to play a prank on Brittany right always。
trying to figure her out always trying to trick her scare her in the same way。
the enemy is trying to do the same thing to us which is why we've been encouraged。
to stand our ground stand firm wearing the full armor of God this is how we。
fight back against the enemy and his schemes the enemy is strong he has。
influence he has power but it's limited it's limited and with this arm of God we。
can stand firm against his schemes so which is why again he says stand firm。
with a belt of truth buckled around your waist the breastplate of righteousness。
is in place feet fitted with the readiness that comes from the gospel the。
shield of faith to extinguish the flaming arrows of the evil one the。
helmet of salvation and a sword of the Spirit which is the Word of God so。
there's a number of components right it's different things that we have been。
called to put on that help us in this battle against the enemy so let's see。
how all these parts fit together. First it says this the belt of。
truth buckled around your waist now as you're talking about this imagine。
like a Roman soldier standing there right in terms in the context of a。
soldier right the belt would have been the thing that keeps all the rest of the。
pieces together right holds everything down so the soldier can be ready for。
action the belt of truth around the waist now maybe some of us don't want us。
to see the truth around our waist okay hips don't lie you know what I mean all。
right but okay as believers of Jesus as believers of Jesus we know the truth now。
the enemy his schemes right he hates the truth John 844 tells us that the enemy。
is a liar and the father of lies the enemy hates the truth but this is why we。
have to say it even more clearly so let me remind us Church of the truth the。
truth is that Jesus loves you and he died for your sins the truth is he is。
alive and resurrected the truth that he has called you to live a life that。
reflects and shows his love to those around us the truth is even though。
there are these other spiritual beings there is only one true all-powerful。
almighty God and the truth is the war has already been won Jesus over on this。
earth is progressing and advancing against these unseen powers of darkness。
and the kingdom of God has a very clear goal and it will reach this goal the。
reclamation of all peoples and all nations the full restoration of God's。
creation to how he originally created it to be this day is coming that is the。
truth Church and the truth doesn't change so Church do you have this belt。
of truth buckled around you does the truth of who Jesus is and what he has。
done for you and all humanity hold your life together wrap this truth around。
yourself tightly buckle up because without it everything will fall apart。
then it talks about the breastplate of righteousness now the breastplate is the。
largest piece of the Roman soldiers armor right protects the vital organs。
the heart the lungs all that kind of stuff right but because the breastplate。
is the biggest it's the most obvious part right it's the part that everyone。
can see it's the most prominent thing and so in in our context and what we're。
talking about here for us this means God has called us to proudly display the。
fact that we are followers of Jesus that we are children of the light that we。
walk in righteousness now the opposite of righteousness is wickedness and the。
enemy that's what he delights in in wickedness scripture tells us that the。
enemy is an oppressor the enemy is the orchestrator of injustice the enemy。
would like to see us do unrighteous things unholy things to each other then。
the enemy wants us to abuse and to take advantage of each other that's wickedness。
that's how the enemy's schemes work but when we put on the breastplate of。
righteousness it means that we are in right standing with God which also means。
we are living out God's justice in his battle against evil so church put on。
this breastplate of righteousness we are called to live a life that reflects God's。
heart for the weak and the oppressed we are called to speak out and do something。
when a situation doesn't fit in to what God's heart is we are called to act。
justly just as God is just and righteous so we put on this breastplate so we can。
be the people of God that he has called us to be people who walk alongside the。
weak and the oppressed who look after the widows and the orphans a voice of。
justice in a world that's unjust a people who are unashamedly living for。
the gospel proudly declaring who they are put on this breastplate of。
righteousness and wear it proudly church then it tells us the feet fitted with。
the readiness that comes from the gospel of peace so much of a soldier's life。
right you would can imagine is either spent spent standing firm standing in。
one place keeping God or requiring them to march forward and move to a different。
place both require strong steady shoes and time and time again you have heard。
it repeated the call has been to stand firm stand firm to be unmoved you see。
the enemy doesn't want us to stand firm the enemy must make us change our minds。
that's another one of his schemes especially in his relate in our。
relationship with Jesus the enemy knows that a double-minded person is unstable。
in all that they do James 1 8 tells us that and so what he wants to do he likes。
nothing more than to make a second guess Jesus love for us his plans for us to。
get us to doubt what God has already told us in other words to disrupt the。
peace that you feel when you have the Word of God when you have Jesus living。
with you and in you that comes from following the Lord you feel like you can。
relate to this have you ever felt yourself doubting the goodness of God。
right at the beginning that was his scheme right he said to Eve did God。
really say this trying to get her to change her mind do you ever find。
yourself living one way in certain situations or living another life in。
another situation big part of my testimony growing up that I struggled。
that so much I felt like you know with my school friends and in one context I。
was this person but in another context I was the good church boy and you know it。
was so hard trying to navigate my life between the two identities that I seem。
to carry at that time do you ever hear the enemy make you doubt if God really。
has given you the peace he has promised you we need to fit our feet in the。
gospel because the gospel is the only thing that gives us a firm foundation to。
stand on to build our lives upon Jesus said this before he left earth peace I。
leave with you my peace I give to you not as the world gives do I give to you。
let not your hearts be troubled neither let them be afraid so we fit our feet。
with the gospel so that we can have a firm place to stand and to build our。
life but here's the other thing at the same time knowing the gospel also allows。
us to bring this peace to areas that of conflict to areas that need it we have。
been called to stand firm yes but sometimes offense is the best version of。
defense and when we see there's a place that needs the gospel when we see our。
family and our friends when we see areas of this society that needs peace then we。
are called to carry it there and when that moment comes for you to carry the。
gospel to live out the Gospels to speak the gospel we also need to be ready for。
those moments whenever it put opportunity presents itself whenever。
God calls you will you be able to respond like Isaiah and say Lord here I。
am send me so we put on the gospel we fit our feet with the gospel of peace so。
that we cannot just stand firm but also bring the gospel to those places that。
need it then it says we need to take up the shield of faith with you with which。
you can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one so the shields。
were Roman soldier were probably about like four feet high about as wide as a。
body a cover-up most of the upper body they were important because one of the。
most common methods of attack back then was to dip arrows in tar and light it。
you know you've probably seen it in the movies right these flaming arrows。
literally flaming arrows that come and so like with the sword you can with the。
shield you can block the enemy's attacks the shields will have a special covering。
on the top like a leather so the shield itself wouldn't sort of burn up as well。
Google it I don't know for us so this is what's important okay the shield of。
faith talks about our faith and our loyalty to Jesus no matter what the。
enemy is a master archer and like we said he fires he all things kind of。
schemes his arrows he fires at us are things like doubt things like fear。
selfishness impurity lust greed adverse circumstances pride self-confidence。
persecution false teaching all these things the list could go on these arrows。
are there to make us doubt what we believe in his arrows are designed to。
try and burn down our faith but the shield reminds us that we walk by faith。
and not by sight so even as the enemy fires these arrows we put up our faith。
we put up our loyalty to Jesus and they will be extinguished even when we do not。
fully see or understand what is happening faith is acknowledging that。
God's ways are higher than our ways and in this battle we cannot defer we。
cannot jump ship we have to stay loyal to Jesus one of the most amazing。
displays of faith and loyalty I think in scripture is through the story of。
Daniel's friends Shadrach Meshach and Abednego in the book of Daniel here they。
are facing the fiery furnace and these are their words if we are thrown into。
the blazing furnace the God we serve is able to deliver us from it and he will。
deliver us that's the faith but even if he does not we want you to know your。
majesty that we will not serve your God's or worship the image of gold you。
have set up that's the loyalty so church we have been called to hold on tight to。
the shield of faith and to loyally follow Jesus into battle extinguishing。
all the flaming arrows of the enemy then it tells us about the helmet of salvation。
right for the soldier the helmet covers another important part of the body the。
head and the helmet was also sometimes a way of determining the position and the。
rank of the soldier these plumes on the top of the helmet and so for us this。
helmet speaks to our identity it's knowing who you belong to as you battle。
as you take your stand know that you are fighting for King Jesus that as brothers。
and sisters as people of Christ we are part of the Lord's army and with the。
helmet of salvation on what that does it's that reminds us that we have。
already been saved this is one of the most important things to hold on to all。
these things that the enemy is trying to do ultimately they're not going to。
change the outcome right we said this just now Jesus is already victorious。
he's doing everything he can to try and to try and distract us from this fact。
but through his death and resurrection Jesus has already won he has already。
overcome sin and death and the enemy is not attacking from a place of strength。
but from a place of already having been defeated where we have to write realize。
this the enemy is a desperate loser in this time he might have some influence。
on earth but his fate has already been sealed and when Jesus returns when the。
new heaven and the new earth comes hit enemy and all his deeds and all these。
all these other spiritual forces these evil spiritual forces will be destroyed。
once and for all and the helmet reply reminds us that salvation and victory。
belongs to our God we are on the winning side and so yes we might get wounded we。
might get hurt like following Jesus and doing spiritual battle against the enemy。
is not going to be a breeze it's not going to be smooth sailing let's not。
forget there are people out there other Christians in parts of the world who are。
literally being persecuted literally risking their lives for the sake of the。
gospel but even in that situation the helmet of salvation reminds us even if。
we were to lose everything on this earth everything we are still victorious。
because God has already won the ultimate battle so church we put on our helmet be。
brave be strong and courageous as scripture has called us to take risks。
for Jesus go all out and live for him because he has already saved you and。
finally we get the sword of the Spirit which is the Word of God the sword is。
the one weapon of offense the soldier carries right a short little dagger like。
thing used for close-handed combat for us though when it speaks of the sword。
this speaks to the power of God's Word and we remind ourselves scriptures。
reminding us that the Word of God is alive and active throughout scripture。
again you see right whenever the Word of God is heard whenever God speaks there。
is power in it things happen when God speaks situations change therefore。
knowing God's Word is one of the key ways we not only stand firm against the。
enemy but what the only weapon you have in this battle against the enemy is the。
sword of his word the sword of the Spirit Jesus himself is a great example。
of this when Jesus is tested in the wilderness when the enemy tempts him。
with lies when the enemy fires his darts at him right he he stays loyal he does。
all that stuff but then he also fights back with scripture with God's Word in。
the same way then church we today need to have a relationship and a good。
understanding of the Word of God to withstand the enemy and to fight back。
against his schemes so let's cherish God's Word Church read it meditate on it。
cherish it memorize it study it together listen to it because this is our only。
weapon in this fight against the enemy but be encouraged also that God still。
speaks today yes through his word but though one of the key ways God speaks。
today is through the Holy Spirit the Holy Spirit therefore also fights back。
against the enemy when we're attacked since this battle is not against flesh。
and blood our weapon is also not against flesh and our weapons also not physical。
weapons we too now then we study God's Word and we follow the Holy Spirit and。
allow him to move in power whenever he speaks now finally it's this you see。
we're not just individual soldiers fighting these battle these little。
squirmishes on our own Paul brings everything together in the central idea。
of prayer prayers the final thing that completes the armor of God this is why。
Paul signs up this letter by saying and pray in the spirit in all occasions with。
all kinds of prayers and regret and requests with this in mind be alert and。
always keep on praying for all the Lord's people pray also for me that。
whenever I speak words may be given me so that I will fiercely make known the。
mystery of the gospel for which I am ambassador in chains pray that I might。
declare it fears fearlessly as I should。
pause writing to a community to a group of people and he's asking them to pray。
together always pray don't stop praying he says this in other parts of his。
letter pray in all occasions keep on praying for God's people keep on praying。
for each other and pray also for me see it's a sobering end to this letter。
because we're reminded as Paul is writing this letter he's not actually。
writing from a from a place of confidence he is in prison he is。
actually being held captive and in chains in some commentaries you read as。
he's writing this there was probably a literal Roman soldier standing there。
keeping a guard of him but notice what he says he doesn't pray or pray for my。
release pray for pray for justice to be done pray that I would walk free that's。
the probably kind of stuff I would be asking people to pray for but he gets it。
in this battle he doesn't say pray that I would be released he says pray for my。
wisdom pray for my courage pray that I would know what to say in every single。
situation for the sake of Jesus you see this is what it looks like then to stand。
firm and to fight back against the schemes on the enemy this is what it。
looks like when no weapons formed against you prosper because no matter。
what situation you're in you are strong in the Lord so we pray together as a。
community when things come up we join together in prayer and walk alongside。
each other as a community fight as a community of believers not just on your。
own and so since Paul encourages us to do this this is how I want to end our。
time together this morning so we're gonna still our hearts for a moment and。
maybe if you came with someone today you know Paul's asking us to pray together。
maybe turn to the person you came with right now and we can ask each other for。
you have a quick conversation you know how can I pray for you where have you。
been feeling attacked lately where do you need courage where do you need the。
Spirit of God to empower you to strengthen you to walk alongside you。
how can I be a brother and a sister to you this morning prayer is one of those。
things it's one of those beautiful things that help us to acknowledge that。
again this is not by our own power it's a mysterious thing that when we pray and。
when God speaks and when he works we see him move in power even though we can't。
really explain how it works at the same time we know that without prayer we are。
nothing and so church just take a couple of minutes right now if you came alone I。
encourage you you can if you if you use a bit of courage pray with the Pope ask。
for prayer for the person next to you in the areas of struggle that you have in。
the areas that you feel like the enemy is attacking you we pray with each other。
to stand firm in this battle so many of us give us a few minutes to do that and。
then I'm going to close with a prayer。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
so Jesus we thank you for giving us this armor we thank you that you do not。
leave us alone and defenseless and helpless but you equip us and empower us。
to live in this on this earth in a victorious way in a way that doesn't。
live in carrying fear of what the enemy might do to us but in the confidence。
that no matter what the enemy does to us we can stand firm that we have this。
faith that can quench every single lie and doubt and and attack that the enemy。
might try to harm us with and still stand firm and say I am a child of God I。
am in the Lord's army and with my brothers and sisters around me in。
community praying with me praying for me the enemy will not be successful in the。
schemes that he has planned for us but the plan of God his will is what is。
going to be done and accomplished in this world so Jesus we give ourselves。
over to you father I pray for those of us out there who may have strayed in。
this area perhaps we have switched allegiances and in a moment of weakness。
in a season of doubt we've turned to other spiritual sources for advice for。
direction and how to live our life father I pray that if any of us。
listening online or those of us who are in this room right now or family members。
are in that place father I pray that the Holy Spirit would come out right now the。
power would come right now and just cut off all schemes and all lies and all。
attachments that the enemy has made in that space that the enemy has no hold on。
anybody in this room and with the full armor of God we are standing firm。
and that from this day onwards and in every moment we trust and rely in you we。
build our lives we put our feet solidly on the solid ground on the gospel we。
rest in the truth of you being the Almighty King and together Lord with。
your word we march forward we fight back against the enemy and we await your。
coming back to this earth and reclaiming your rightful place on the throne until。
then Lord sustain us in this fight keep us strong keep us unified in your love。
keep us trusting in you keep us loyal to King Jesus we pray these in your mighty。
beautiful awesome victorious name the name of Jesus amen。
you。
(gentle music)。
[MUSIC]。
