- Well, thank you, Andrew, for that almost kind introduction there.。
That was very nice.。
Good morning.。
It's a great privilege to be with you.。
Thank you all for giving me this opportunity to share this morning with you.。
One of the great privileges of the job that I have is that I get to travel。
around the world and be with the people of God in a variety of churches all。
around the world.。
And this morning, I do want to begin by just affirming what social commentators。
and sociologists are observing about our era, which is that it's an extraordinary。
era of disorientation, and instability, and confusion.。
All over the world, humans are experiencing by far the most accelerated。
pace of technological change, cultural upheaval, and data stimuli。
in human history.。
And here in Hong Kong, these years have been especially difficult.。
I was last here in 2019 as social unrest was mounting.。
Then this shocking pandemic descended, followed by very sharp economic。
uncertainties, growing geopolitical tensions, and then a war in Eastern Europe。
and war in Middle East.。
Globally, it's very easy to sense that an aching confusion, and fear,。
and grief is growing even more intense.。
And especially in advanced economies like Hong Kong, where sociologists see an。
unprecedented rise in what they now call the statistics of sadness,。
anxiety, social isolation, depression, loneliness, addiction, and suicide.。
So I think the pressing question is this, in such difficult and disorienting times,。
what clarity can the followers of Jesus stand on?。
Or are Christians just as confused and disoriented as everybody else?。
Or worse, is Jesus perhaps just as confused and caught off guard。
as everybody else?。
Personally, I don't think He is.。
And so maybe the followers of Jesus don't need to be either.。
Especially as you, I think, are emerging out of this conversation you've been。
having with the book of Exodus about our own journeys to freedom.。
A freedom for what?。
Because this whole question of disorientation, it does seem to require a。
return to our most basic orientation as to our purpose as Christians.。
Why are we here?。
Jesus has an answer to that question, but it's an answer that makes zero sense。
to the instincts of the world or to the intuitions of our human nature.。
But here it is.。
The reason that we are here on earth is to be agents of Christ's redemption in。
broken lives and in a fallen world.。
Put another way, the people of God are most who they are meant to be precisely。
when the world is least as it was meant to be.。
Matthew 5 tells us that Jesus calls His followers, you and I, the light of the。
world and the salt of the earth.。
Which sounds great until we realize that light finds its purpose and power where?。
In darkness.。
And salt, a first century preservative, finds its purpose and power in decay.。
Here Jesus is simply trying to help us, I think, find our footing by giving us。
clarity about our redemptive purpose in what is a manifestly fallen world.。
Because with clear purpose in mind, why we're here, we have clear expectations。
about the journey.。
Christians are not meant to live grimly, wallowing in all that's dark and decaying。
in the world.。
Quite the opposite.。
For as I'm going to speak to in a moment, the only way to sustain our redemptive。
role in the world is by drinking deeply from life's beauty and goodness and joy。
and abundance.。
But Jesus does invite us to experience the chaos, confusion, and heartache of our。
world very differently because of two things, an orientation of purpose and a。
supernatural spiritual preparation.。
As to the orientation of purpose, it's meant to be singularly redemptive,。
which means God has to send us to where things are wrong.。
The people of God are most who they are meant to be when the world is least as it。
was meant to be.。
I was thinking about this the other day, and to me it came to mind as the。
difference between an airbag in a car and a cup holder in a car.。
Cup holders serve their highest purpose, and it's a great purpose.。
It's amazing it took humans so long to invent the cup holder, but we have.。
And cup holders serve their highest purpose when everything is going just right。
in the car.。
You and your best friends are on a holiday and you're driving in your rental car down。
the highway, and amazingly there's no traffic.。
And the right song on your playlist has come on, and right there by your side is。
your perfect beverage, right there in the cup holder.。
In that perfect moment, the cup holder is everything it was meant to be.。
Now the airbag, by contrast, serves its highest and best purpose when everything。
is going desperately wrong in the car.。
At the point of high-speed collision when steel is crushing in and chaos is hurling。
soft bodies into hard objects, this is the moment the airbag lives for,。
to rush into, not away from the chaos, to place itself between the violence。
and the vulnerable, and to save lives.。
And I think in a fallen and broken world, Jesus says we're meant to be more the。
airbag than the cup holder.。
Because if you think about it, in a fallen world, what is God's plan for making。
it believable that He is good?。
Jesus says to His people, "We're the plan."。
And He doesn't have another plan.。
He says to us, "You are the light of the world."。
But how fallen should we expect the world to be?。
Well, when Jesus tells His iconic Good Samaritan story, His example of the。
neighbor in need, what does that look like?。
It's a man who's grabbed by robbers, stripped naked, beaten, and left for dead.。
This is our neighbor.。
The Good Samaritan story is our central calling to love others.。
But notice it's not a cute story, actually.。
Jesus is setting an expectation about the kind of world into which He's sending us。
to love.。
Second, Jesus is expressing an expectation about the kind of love that we are。
actually capable of.。
Jesus believes you and I are capable of supernatural love.。
He thinks we're capable of heroic airbag love, love that moves into pain and。
into peril.。
Now, that kind of sounds inspiring, but also kind of terrible.。
But this is what makes the love of Jesus supernatural, supernatural.。
It's a love that is above and beyond our human nature, a love that only comes。
through a spiritual transformation of us by the power of the Holy Spirit.。
In the story of the Good Samaritan, Jesus gives us a really vivid example of。
natural love in the priest and the Levite.。
What do they do?。
They walk on the other side of the road.。
They're looking for their purpose in Jericho, where everything is going quite。
well.。
The Samaritan, by contrast, manifests supernatural love that moves into the。
pain of the man who is left along the road.。
But why is this supernatural love so important to Jesus?。
Because it is supernatural acts of love that end up pointing to God and giving。
Him glory.。
Because the quality of love is so manifestly beyond what humans are。
naturally capable of.。
So let's make this practical.。
What does this kind of supernatural love look like?。
Well, as Andrew was saying, I work for International Justice Mission, and many。
of you have been wonderful supporters and encouragers of that work here at this。
church for many, many years.。
And IJM now consists about 1,500 IJM staff who are local indigenous Christians who。
live and work in some of the poorest communities around the world.。
And as the body of Christ, they lean into some of the darkest and most evil。
violence in the world.。
In the Philippines, for example, our local teams are taking on the nasty scourge of。
online sexual exploitation of children.。
Yes, there is such a thing, and it is as horrible as you could imagine.。
And it's the sickness that's gone viral in the poorest neighborhoods since the。
pandemic.。
Basically, sexual predators in London or New York or Moscow, they pay criminals in。
the Philippines to be able to direct live the sexual abuse of children online.。
Children like this eight-year-old boy, Marco, who lives in a slum under the。
control of an abusive relative.。
Now, this crime has exploded during the pandemic.。
And Philippine authorities, they get thousands of case referrals every month。
from around the world about Filipino children who are being abused.。
Another example of leaning into the darkness, at a time when many countries,。
including my own, are faced with problems of police abuse, Christians in Kenya are。
facing a particularly terrifying plague of police violence.。
Police routinely just round up people who are poor and throw them in jail as a way。
of extracting bribes from them.。
During the first few months of the COVID pandemic, the Kenyan police killed three。
times as many citizens from enforcing the COVID quarantine than actually died from。
the disease itself.。
Some of you friends might remember that three of IJM's own were murdered by。
police in Kenya.。
That's leaning into the darkness.。
Third example of leaning into the darkness, in South Asia, Christians are。
trying to address the suffering of millions who are trafficked illegally。
into slavery.。
Pachiama, for example, is a young woman who was trafficked into a rock quarry as a。
young teenager, and she's forced to work seven days a week, 12 to 14 hours,。
breaking rocks with a hammer.。
The owners used terror and sexual assault to enforce their will upon scores of。
enslaved people.。
Pachiama herself had to watch a young child die in the quarry because the owner。
wouldn't allow the child to be taken to a doctor.。
And as the world knows, and as you probably know, millions of the world's poor are。
being crushed under the cruelty of modern slavery like Pachiama.。
And of course, in advanced economies, the body of Christ is also facing challenges.。
We all face them.。
The global Me Too movement some years ago surfaced this reality of abusive sexual。
misconduct that women and girls face in all kinds of socioeconomic circles.。
And human trafficking exploits immigrants, refugees, and vulnerable populations in。
every country.。
Altogether, the pain and upheaval at home and abroad is daunting, and it can feel。
pretty overwhelming.。
So where do we begin?。
I suggest that we can begin by returning to the clarity the scriptures provide。
about why we exist.。
As the Apostle Paul wrote in Ephesians 2.10, we're God's handiwork,。
created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to。
do.。
We know, of course, that these works don't save us, but we know those works bring。
glory to our Father who is in heaven when they manifest His supernatural love in。
the world.。
This is why we're here, to manifest a supernatural love.。
So where would that supernatural love come from?。
I have seen Christians in the poorest communities in the world battling。
incredible darkness and evil, and I see three qualities to their supernatural。
love.。
The first is a supernatural courage in their compassion, a supernatural。
willingness to draw near to the suffering and to be actually touched by it.。
When IJM's undercover investigations in the Philippines first exposed that。
children in the slums were being sexually abused online to paying customers around。
the world, no one wanted to look at that.。
Who wants to watch that video and get close to that pain?。
It was too grotesque and shameful.。
But soon, over time, IJM found some churches and church leaders in the。
Philippines who were willing to sound the alarm.。
They spoke about it from their pulpits, began to pray together about it by the。
thousands.。
And here at the Vine Church, you came alongside some of our Philippine and。
South Asian teams and provided prayers and partnership that then led to this。
second quality that I see, not just the courageous capacity for compassion,。
but also a supernatural generosity.。
Because after IJM worked with the authorities to conduct operations,。
we've done almost 1,500 operations rescuing kids out of these places.。
Here's the problem.。
There's nowhere for the kids to go.。
No one wanted to take care of the kids.。
It's not that they didn't want to, it's just it was too messy.。
Because many times, the victims are actually babies or boys,。
and those weren't usual categories for this kind of care.。
And so no one knew who to deal with it.。
But there were several church communities in the Philippines that stepped forward。
into the mess.。
And they had meager resources, but they opened up assessment centers。
and care facilities for a totally unfamiliar form of abuse.。
They took great risks in saying yes to the need before they had all the resources or。
all the know-how to meet it.。
Reminds me of the story of getting to know the needs of asylum seekers here.。
But now, due to the generosity of this community here in Hong Kong,。
and hundreds of children have been rescued by IJM and the authorities,。
and the Christian community in the Philippines is actually pioneering。
aftercare facilities and programs that are now a model in the rest of the world.。
We have a lot of hope for the fight against this evil of online sexual。
exploitation in the Philippines, because we've already seen other forms。
of child commercial sexual abuse reduced by between 75% and 85% over the last。
decade in the Philippines.。
Turns out that Jesus takes these very small offerings, like loaves and fish,。
and multiplies them to this extraordinary impact.。
Likewise, in South Asia, where you've been supporting our work,。
Christians have brought hope by manifesting this super generosity in providing a pathway。
of dignity and independence for people who are otherwise in places of slavery.。
When IJM and local authorities were able to actually help Pachiamma and dozens。
of other victims get out of that slavery in the rock quarry,。
Pachiamma and the others faced terrible destitution because floods had destroyed。
their mud homes and swept away all their meager possessions.。
Then, coalition of local churches and Christian students rallied their own。
resources with community and government to support, to provide permanent housing,。
running water, electricity, road works.。
And now, not only are Pachiamma and her family thriving, but Pachiamma has now。
become the general secretary of the local Released Bonded Laborers Association,。
which has more than 1,500 members.。
And Pachiamma and her team, they rescue hundreds from slavery.。
For Pachiamma and her community, this is the legacy of what?。
Of Christians responding to brokenness and pain with supernatural generosity.。
The third quality of love I see in this is supernatural persistence.。
These Christians manifest a love that doesn't go away.。
Children, imagine this, children healing from online sexual abuse need love。
for a long time.。
Typically for us, for five to 10 years.。
Now, who can do that?。
The local church can do that.。
They're a permanent presence in that community.。
Churches in the Philippines commit to these children's care and healing for years,。
taking care of trauma therapy, spiritual nurture, schooling, medical needs,。
therapy for families, livelihood training.。
And here's the real test of supernatural persistence in love.。
They stick with it even when it's not appreciated, even when the traumatized。
children lash out at them, even when all the efforts seem to fail,。
because sometimes they absolutely do.。
What does not fail is the persistence of the love.。
This is supernatural.。
Likewise in Kenya, churches in the slums have signed up to advocate for men。
who've been illegally detained.。
They do the scary work of confronting the authorities about the abuse,。
but they also do the long-term work of supporting families who are thrown。
into destitution when the breadwinner is thrown into jail.。
It's followers of Jesus who make sure that these families are seen,。
that they don't go hungry, that they're not alone,。
that they're prayed for for as long as it takes.。
So where does this capacity for supernatural love come from?。
It's clearly the work of the Holy Spirit transforming humans.。
But I also notice three things that Christians do to allow the Holy Spirit。
to get started in that transformation.。
And when they do it over and over again, the transformation becomes powerful。
and unstoppable.。
These believers do three things, I think.。
Number one, they take scary baby steps of love.。
They pray and they chase joy.。
First, scary baby steps.。
Because you and I were made for redemptive purposes,。
when you and I draw near to broken lives and the fallen world,。
what's going to happen?。
The Holy Spirit will suggest a scary baby step of love.。
And the trick is to take it.。
This is not easy, however, because you will have other voices as well.。
Our fallen nature will always suggest all the things we can't do.。
And our spiritual adversary will also suggest all the amazing things。
that we could do later when we're better prepared.。
But the Holy Spirit will suggest some baby step of love you can do now.。
But it will be a scary baby step because it's meant to be,。
because it takes you to a place where you actually will need God.。
This is necessary for us to authentically experience His power。
and His trustworthiness because that experience of Him。
will then give us the courage for the next scary baby step.。
What's important to understand about our brothers and sisters。
in the Philippines and Kenya and South Asia when I share their stories。
is how scary every little baby step of love was for them.。
Overwhelmingly, these are actually churches in poor communities,。
serving with deep dignity on thin margins, thin resources,。
thin training, and a thin line of survival, actually.。
But lots of consecutive scary baby steps have turned them into giants of faith.。
And as they take their scary baby steps, they pray.。
They talk to God about it.。
Because the baby steps are scary, they actually need Him.。
And instead of feeling like, "Oh, we are scared and need God,。
so we must be in the wrong place," they sense, "Oh, this is the right place."。
And then God shows up.。
He pours out His presence and power.。
And so then they pray more because they're thankful。
and because they need His help for the next scary step.。
And then they pray a lot.。
At IJM, we've learned a lot from this, which is why all of our teams。
all around the world stop all of our work twice a day, every day.。
Stop the work, pray for a half hour.。
Do a little more work, pray for a half hour every day.。
We tell our God we're scared, that we need help with the latest baby step.。
And we thank Him earnestly for how He carried us through the last one.。
Finally, we've learned from these believers of supernatural love to chase joy.。
This is sometimes the thing that gets missed.。
Because these followers of Jesus are able to love for the long haul。
because they continually come up for air and to chase joy.。
The Bible says the joy of the Lord is our strength.。
And so in ways that might surprise you, I find that my IJM colleagues。
laugh louder and harder than just about any Christians I know.。
They dance and sing in celebration of beauty and life.。
They play and joke and they get rid of all pretension.。
They worship with passion and authenticity the God who has proven Himself to be good.。
Then they go back to work.。
In chasing joy, you and I too can be refreshed with the Spirit。
for the next scary baby step of supernatural love.。
I think we have so much to learn from these Christians。
who are serving in these very difficult places.。
And I can tell you, they have loved and would continue to love。
your companionship with them.。
Many of you have experienced that companionship as you've connected。
with IJM and these teams around the world.。
And thanks to many of you, more than 88,000 individual victims of abuse。
and slavery have come to see freedom and wholeness.。
And now, as I mentioned, outside experts are studying these programs。
and find that they consistently produce reductions in violence of slavery。
by between 50 and 85%.。
And now we've identified scores of jurisdictions around the world。
that are ripe for that kind of transformation.。
This is a miracle of scale that Jesus seems to be preparing。
after all these decades of offering just small little offerings.。
And if you'd like to join that fight, please know that your brothers。
and sisters around the world would love your companionship in it.。
These teams around the world would love for you to join them。
in helping them protect some of the poorest communities。
in the world from violence.。
And please just know that this work proceeds because of the companionship。
of the body of Christ around the world.。
So take the time as you're able, IJM has a little table or booth outside。
to get to know the work and explore ways of connecting with us。
as a prayer partner, as a freedom partner,。
someone who regularly supports the work, to make this rescue。
and restoration possible.。
Please feel very warmly invited into all of that.。
These are difficult, disorienting times indeed.。
I have not been in a church around the world that isn't experiencing that.。
But Jesus is not disoriented or confused.。
He's crystal clear and unyielding about His sovereign purposes.。
And He's utterly determined to joyfully pursue those redemptive purposes。
through you and through me.。
Because the people of God are most what they are meant to be。
precisely, precisely when the world is least as it was meant to be.。
You are the light of the world.。
Let your light so shine among men and women that they'll see your good works。
and then give glory to your Father who is in heaven.。
Let's pray together.。
Kind Father, thank you that you love us so much,。
that you've given us life, that you've rescued our lives.。
And now you want to rescue your world through us.。
Father, will you take some word of truth that may be from you this morning。
and allow it to enter our hearts, to take root and to bear fruit。
for the glory of your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
(gentle music)。
