For what you've done in us, we give you praise.。
In Jesus' name, everyone says, Amen.。
Amen.。
Hey, can we thank our worship team as always, as always.。
Why don't you have a seat, have a seat.。
Brilliant.。
Well, we're excited to continue our sermon series, Blowing Water, which Pastor Ellis。
and I started last week, and this week we're looking at this idea of testimony and the。
testimonies that we hold.。
And I'm so excited because we have Pastor Jess with us today.。
Can we put our hands together as we welcome Pastor Jess?。
Yes.。
I'm going to pray for you.。
Let's stretch out our hands as we pray for Jess.。
Father, I thank you that so much of what Jess is about to share really is her own personal。
testimony.。
The passion that sits inside of her to share the good news of Jesus through Alfer and a。
number of other ways that she leads here at The Vine.。
And Father, you've done so much in her, and I know that through her you are doing so much.。
And Father, she opens up Scripture today.。
Lord, we now pray for ourselves.。
And Father, we are anxious in a good way to hear your word, to receive that little thing。
that you have for us today.。
And Lord, I believe that you want to speak personally to every person in this room, in。
the overflow, online right now, a personal word through what Jess is about to share.。
So Lord, we just pray that our hearts would be fertile soil for what it is that you want。
to do.。
And we thank you so much for this.。
In Jesus' name, everyone says.。
Amen.。
Thank you, Pastor Andrew.。
Hi, everyone.。
My name is Jess, as Andrew said.。
So one of the recurring conversations I have when I go about town, one of the "chui sui"。
things that happen as I go about Hong Kong is my Cantonese.。
And sometimes when I'm just ordering something or buying something in a shop, and if someone,。
you know, is really friendly and I'm speaking in Chinese, they go, "Wow, your Cantonese。
is quite good."。
And if I'm in a good mood and I want to engage in conversation, I'll say, "I'm a proud。
Hong Konger."。
And then we continue to chat.。
If I'm in a grumpy mood, which I confess maybe sometimes is more than me wanting to chat,。
I'll just offer them my life story on a plate because I know what's coming.。
They want to know why I speak Cantonese.。
I'll say, "I grew up here in Hong Kong.。
I went to my mom's Hong Kong Chinese, my dad's English.。
I went to a local school when I grew up."。
Now I've told you, so I don't have to tell, I have conversations with you again about。
that.。
If I'm in a really, really don't want to engage in conversation, I just speak in English.。
I can just not engage.。
But that's not how we should have conversations.。
That's not what this sermon series is about.。
Because conversations now, perhaps they're even more important during this period as。
we come out of COVID, a time that was defined by distancing, by isolation.。
So we're looking at some conversations that Jesus had in the Bible and how that can show。
us, teach us, mold us about some conversations that we can have.。
And like Andrew said, my role here as a pastor is I have the privilege of overseeing community。
groups and Alpha.。
And we just had another round of Alpha finish.。
But before this round, we had Sharena come here and share her testimony.。
And her testimony was that she came as a lifelong Hindu.。
She didn't believe in Jesus.。
And on the Alpha day, which was the day we look at the topic of the Holy Spirit, she。
gave her life to Christ.。
She subsequently received a miraculous healing from some back pain that still remains.。
And after that day, after the Alpha day, I went home and I was just excited, thankful。
for all that God had done.。
I found myself saying to God, "God, I'm so grateful for what you did.。
I'm so excited you did this in Sharena's life, but that's not enough.。
I would like to see way more people come and experience your love."。
And he broke my heart for Hong Kong and I prayed, "I would love everyone in Hong Kong。
to see your love."。
And I was like, "God, what are you talking about?"。
Like realizing this is not from me.。
I felt actually God was a bit cheeky.。
It's like, "This is not from me, but you're making me sound like this is from me.。
But this is a desire from God, I believe in."。
I'm like, "I don't understand.。
What are you talking about?。
My remit is the vine.。
I'm a pastor of the vine.。
It's not Hong Kong.。
What are you saying?。
Are you asking me to go and work for Alpha Hong Kong?"。
And the answer is, "No, I'm not leaving.。
You're stuck with me because I do believe my calling here is to you."。
And I believe actually what God was saying was something for all of us here.。
God is speaking to us about our call to be representatives of God's love outside of the。
four walls of this church.。
And so today we're going to look at a passage in John 4 that is about a woman that Jesus。
chats with.。
Jesus reveals who he is and she then go and tells others about her testimony.。
Now you might be a bit like me, sometimes sharing about our faith with people outside。
of the church can be scary, but it also can be one of the most powerful ways we can have。
conversations.。
So looking at this scripture in John 4, up until this point in Jesus' ministry, he was。
ministering in Judea, but he left Judea to head back up to Galilee.。
And the most direct route goes through the middle, which is it goes through Samaria.。
We've got a map there.。
It's the white route.。
And this would take three days on foot to get there.。
And this appears to be the route that Jesus took.。
However, many devout Jews wouldn't take that route.。
They would take a longer route.。
They would take the red route or the green route because they wanted to avoid Samaria.。
And what happened then was that there was a lot of bitterness and hatred between them.。
And in the biblical context, in 702 BC, Samaria was invaded by Assyria.。
And a lot of the Jews were exiled, but those who stayed, many of them married Assyrians.。
And they created this new race.。
They were half Jewish, half Gentile.。
And so the Jewish people called them half breeds.。
And it was particularly unpleasant or even disgusting because the Jews understood that。
God sent the Assyrians to conquer them because of their sin, because they sinned against。
God.。
And because the people in Samaria adopted the ways of the Assyrians, there was just。
huge discrimination.。
People looked down on them.。
So there was a lot of theological and historical reasons why the Jews didn't like the Samaritans.。
And by the time Jesus was on earth, this had been built up for a thousand years.。
And this is why John 4, 9 says, "Jews have no dealings with Samaria."。
But it appears that Jesus and his disciples didn't avoid the Samaritans.。
They went through Samaria.。
And by the time we come to John 4, this passage, we believe they'd been traveling on foot for。
six hours.。
It was noon.。
Jesus was thirsty and tired.。
His disciples went into town to buy food.。
So Jesus was alone and he needed a break.。
So he sat by a well, and it's a famous well.。
It's Jacob's Well, which is fed by an underground spring.。
It was a very reliable source of water.。
And so as Jesus was sitting down by himself by the well, this is what happens.。
A Samaritan woman came to draw water.。
And Jesus said to her, "Will you give me a drink?"。
Now this is radical for several reasons.。
We've just heard that there's bad blood between the Jews and the Samaritans.。
They were not friends.。
But secondly, for a Jewish man to initiate a conversation with a woman alone was actually。
frowned upon.。
It was known that a man would go to a well if they wanted to look for a spouse.。
It was a bit like maybe a man trying to chat up a woman at a sleazy bar here.。
And then a Samaritan woman, we've just heard how Samaritans are considered unclean.。
The women are considered even more unclean because of blood.。
And they were considered so unclean that even the vessels that they've touched, if Jesus,。
if anyone drunk from it, they would be defiled and they would be unclean.。
So no surprise, the Samaritan woman responded to Jesus asking her for water, saying, "Really?。
You're asking me for water?。
Don't you?"。
This is not in Scripture.。
This is how I'd imagine she's saying, "Really?。
How can you?。
Don't you know there's bad blood that you look down upon us?"。
She doesn't know who this person is asking for water.。
And so let's take a deeper look at Scripture.。
The whole story is covered in John 4, which spans 42 verses, which we won't go through。
today, but I really encourage you to read through it this week.。
So we'll pick it up in verse 10.。
So she's saying, "Why would you ask me for water?"。
And Jesus answered her, "If you knew the gift of God and who it is that asks you for a drink,。
you would have asked him and he would have given you living water.。
Anyone who drinks of this water, the water from the spring, will be thirsty again, but。
whoever drinks the water I give them will never thirst.。
Indeed, the water I give them will become in them a spring of water welling up to eternal。
life."。
The woman said to him, "Sir, give me this water so I won't be thirsty and have to keep。
coming here to draw water."。
She still doesn't quite get it.。
She's like saying, "Jesus, what are you talking about?。
Give me this water."。
And he then told her, seemingly not answering anything she just asked, "Go, call your husband。
and come back."。
And she says, "I have no husband."。
Jesus said to her, "You are right when you say you have no husband.。
The fact is you have had five husbands and the man you have now is not your husband.。
What you have said is quite true."。
So we've seen all the reasons that Jesus might have not wanted to engage with her, but now。
we know even she's living an immoral life.。
She's living with a man who's not her husband and that is considered immoral.。
But Jesus reaches out to her, initiates the conversation with her, and then later even。
declares to her quite boldly, "Then Jesus declared," verse 26, "I, the one speaking。
to you, I am he.。
I am the Messiah."。
Jesus tells her who she is.。
So over a conversation, she starts to realize who Jesus is and so she immediately couldn't。
help and go back to her town.。
Her response was brilliant.。
She runs back to her town.。
She leaves her water jar and he says this, let's look at verse 28, "Then leaving the。
water jar, the woman went back to the town and said to people, 'Come, see a man who told。
me everything I ever did.。
Could this be the Messiah?'"。
They came out to the town and they made their way towards town.。
Many Samaritans from that town believed in him, believed in Jesus because of the woman's。
testimony, "He told me everything.。
He told me everything I ever did."。
Everyone from her town came out because of what she said.。
And again, this is not in scripture.。
This is what I imagine she would say.。
She would, "Do you know, I just went about today about my normal routine.。
I was just going to get water.。
It was in the middle of the day and this Jewish man, this Jewish man was by himself and he。
started a conversation with me.。
Doesn't he know we shouldn't be talking alone?。
And he asked me for water and then he knew everything about my life and I think he is。
the Christ.。
Come and see him."。
That's what I think her testimony would have been.。
And she immediately shares that with her people because she's so excited.。
But it says that they came out to the town and they made their way to meet him.。
But it says that many of the Samaritans believed because of her testimony, because of what。
she said.。
So testimonies are powerful.。
So why are they powerful?。
What is a testimony really?。
A testimony here means to bear witness, to give evidence, to testify.。
And witness is one of the key themes in scripture.。
And in fact, in ancient Israel in the early church, it carried a kind of forensic sense.。
It meant that it was someone who has seen the truth or heard the truth.。
They can testify to the truth in a court of law and they can declare what they've seen。
or what they've heard and give evidence to what they've experienced.。
And witness throughout the Bible can certify facts and it's often related.。
It talks about how the church of God, the people of God bear witness.。
They can give witness to who God is.。
And witness is so important in John's gospel that it talks about seven ways that we can。
testify to who Jesus is.。
So seven ways that testify, yeah, who Jesus is.。
And the first is the Father.。
The Father, it says in John 5, 37, "The Father who sent me, sent Jesus, he has testified。
concerning me."。
Jesus himself testifies who he is.。
We just heard that.。
He declared that to the Samaritan woman.。
The Holy Spirit.。
It says that the spirit of truth goes out from the Father.。
He will testify about me.。
The works of Jesus tell of who Jesus is.。
The miracles, the power that he carries.。
Scripture reveals Jesus.。
John the Baptist reveals and testifies to who Jesus is.。
And last but not least, it's our human witness.。
Our testimony is one of the things that the gospel of John tells us speaks to and can。
certify who Jesus is.。
It speaks to his power.。
So why is this so powerful?。
The amazing thing is everyone in here has a testimony.。
Everyone in here who has encountered Jesus has a unique story that they can share.。
And your unique story is about your details of how you experienced Jesus.。
How did you meet him?。
What are the amazing things that he's done for you?。
In a way, it showcases what you've personally seen.。
And it really is you sharing your witness and how God is personal to you, how you met。
God.。
So a testimony is personal and subjective.。
It's your story.。
In a way, it's your love story with God.。
It's how you encountered the spirit of truth and how this truth took root in you.。
And so you are sharing this with joy with other people.。
A testimony is not a sermon.。
It's not a theology lesson.。
It's not a Bible study.。
And it's not preachy.。
It's light.。
We share it, hopefully, without obligation.。
We share it because we're so joyous of what Jesus has done in our lives.。
And we share it.。
And when we do, a testimony makes way for others to come and see who Jesus is.。
So it opens up an opportunity for other people to witness, to experience what you have experienced.。
So it's hugely powerful.。
And it's not without theological cause either.。
Because 1 Timothy 2.4 says God's heart is that he wants all people to be saved and to。
come into a knowledge of the truth.。
And so not only is God's heart that everyone wants to hear his truth, none of us, we've。
already heard, we all have a unique story.。
None of us is disqualified from sharing our testimony.。
None of us have a boring testimony or an unimportant testimony.。
All our testimonies are important.。
And actually 1 Peter 3.15 tells us to prepare our testimony.。
It says, "Always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason。
for the hope that you have."。
So if someone asks you, that's a brilliant way to share why you have a hope in Jesus.。
Why do you love Jesus?。
And so I really want to encourage you this week to take time to think of your testimony.。
Just now when we prayed, maybe something already came to mind.。
But to take time to craft your testimony so you can share it.。
And I love practical tips.。
So I love to give you a bit of a practical tip.。
You know, how do we put together a testimony?。
And it really consists of three simple parts.。
The before, the during, which is really the what and the how, and after.。
So the before, a testimony doesn't just have to be about how you came to faith.。
Although if that is your testimony, do you share what was life like before you came to。
Christ?。
But for those of us who have been Christians, who have been walking in a relationship with。
Jesus for a while, it could be something recent that Jesus did for you.。
A prayer that you've been praying, a prayer that Jesus answered, a need that you had that。
Jesus came through for you, that caused you maybe to realise to a greater level the intimacy,。
the deepness of God's love for you.。
So it could be how you came to faith.。
It could be a recent testimony.。
And then so that could be the before.。
And then you just share what happened.。
What were you praying for?。
Or how did you came to faith?。
And then the after.。
How did your relationship with Jesus grow?。
Or what differences Jesus made to your life?。
That's it.。
That's a testimony.。
Before, during, after.。
Simple, yeah?。
We can all do it.。
And so your testimony, it will be personal, personal to you, your unique story.。
It's honest and it's true.。
It's true to what happened.。
It doesn't downplay anything.。
It doesn't exaggerate anything, but it speaks to the truth.。
Like I said, there's no bad testimony.。
There's no boring testimony.。
And we are all called to be prepared to share our testimony.。
Like I said, Alpha here just finished.。
And we know you love hearing the testimonies.。
So right now, we'd love to invite two people who were involved in the last Alpha to share。
their testimony.。
Should we do that?。
Yeah.。
So let's first invite Eric.。
Eric, come join us.。
Hi, Eric.。
Hi.。
Hi.。
Just have a chat.。
Sorry.。
So Eric here used to work here.。
Many of you might recognize him.。
He used to be part of the team that takes care of this building, this facilities.。
He was part of our facilities team.。
But recently you just left, which is sad.。
But tell us, before you came to the Vine, were you a Christian?。
And so how did you come to join us on Alpha?。
Because I work the night shifts.。
I worked during the last menacos when Pastor Andrew preached on Genesis.。
When I heard it, I want to understand who Jesus is.。
It is a special chance that I was invited by Karen to join Alpha.。
This was an opportunity to join Alpha, and I don't know why I say yes.。
So I joined Alpha.。
And then what happened on Alpha?。
On week three of Alpha, the Alpha talk was, "Why did Jesus die?"。
It mentioned about some planes we carry inside.。
I have carried the plane since my mother passed away.。
I haven't been able to let the pain go.。
I was busy working at that time and overlooked many signs of my mother getting worse body condition.。
A series four accident happened that injured her brain, causing her death.。
I felt so guilty for not paying close attention to her body.。
And I thought I was responsible for her death.。
I have been carrying this guilt for six years.。
During Alpha, I heard Jesus took away my sins.。
I don't know whether I sinned against my mother when she had her fall.。
I hope Jesus can forgive me.。
I believe He forgives me.。
But I'm still trying to forgive myself.。
I shared this to my group, and my group leader asked me, "Would you follow Jesus?"。
So what did you say?。
Yes, I said yes.。
I didn't know how to become a Christian.。
I didn't know the steps.。
I thought I have to be baptized first.。
I didn't know that if God comes to find you, you just respond.。
It's so simple.。
God comes to find me and I say yes.。
And so what difference has Jesus made to your life?。
This thing has set very deep inside my heart, and I never told anyone.。
Now because I've told Jesus about this and my small group, I have peace and strength。
to face this.。
I don't have to face this alone.。
I felt a power for me to confirm this and confirm the things of the past.。
I feel like I have a new start in life for the better.。
I have a lot of peace.。
Another strange thing is I feel like I have new creative ideas.。
I don't know what's happening.。
I have new talents and gifts in cooking.。
And I don't have ideas and thoughts that just come to me.。
Even my wife is surprised.。
So after this experience, I share it with my family, with my wife and two daughters.。
I told them I became a Christian and I tell them we can pray together.。
My younger daughter asked me, "Where is Jesus?。
Where does Jesus live?"。
She will put her hand together to pray.。
When we are facing challenges, I say to them, "Why don't we pray together?。
Let's talk about it."。
When my wife can't sleep, I offer to pray her.。
Wednesday is a big day for our family.。
We are waiting to hear if my older daughter get into secondary school.。
I know I can trust God, so I put this in his hand.。
Thank you, Eric.。
Thank you so much for sharing your testimony.。
I would love to share another story, another testimony with you.。
This is a testimony about Zoe.。
So Zoe has given us permission to share.。
She's not quite ready to stand here and share in person, but she has given us permission.。
So Zoe is originally from Beijing.。
She's from a country, a city where very little of Christianity or spirituality was spoken。
about.。
When she came here, she found that she had a curiosity about the Bible.。
She says this, "If the Bible is the most read book, how come no one in my circle back home。
read it or even talked about it?"。
So Zoe wanted to learn about the Bible, and so she emailed quite a few of the international。
churches.。
Guess what?。
The Vine was the first one that got back to her, so she came to The Vine.。
I know it's not a competition, but we won.。
Anyway, so it was at The Vine that she heard about Alpha, and so she joined Alpha.。
And so Alpha is made up of small groups, and each small group has a small group leader,。
small group hosts.。
And we've invited Jennifer to come and share Zoe's testimony and her own journey.。
So let's give a round of applause for Jennifer.。
How's she?。
Hi.。
You've got a fan club over there.。
Hi.。
Hi.。
So tell us, tell us Zoe's journey on Alpha.。
Yeah, absolutely.。
It has been such a joy walking with Zoe.。
She's always a special one with a very strong spiritual hunger for the truth.。
But I remember six weeks into Alpha, Zoe was telling our group, "I won't be so fast in。
calling myself a Christian when I'm not ready."。
And at that time, I was a little bit let down by it and thought, "Okay, this girl, I should。
never push her."。
But fast forward to Alpha day, during prayer ministry time, I asked Zoe, "So how can I。
pray for you?"。
And Zoe said, "You know what?。
I've actually been trying so hard to build a relationship with God, but to be honest,。
I feel like there's a huge disconnection.。
There's something blocking."。
It was then that I felt prompted to say, "Oh, would you actually want that head knowledge。
to become a heart transformation?。
Do you want to invite Jesus into your life?"。
And she said, "Yes."。
So we did the sinner prayer together.。
And after that, Zoe told me, "You know, it was when I had to repeat after you that it。
was the first time that I realized actually all along I might not think that I'm a sinner,。
but I should have messed up here or there.。
I've heard similar prayers in church before, but it was the first time that it dawned on。
me that I'm actually a sinner and Jesus has died on the cross for me and God really loves。
me."。
And after the sinner prayer, actually the first thing she told me was, "Jen, I really。
want an English Bible, a physical copy.。
I feel like God has been wanting to talk to me, but I'm the one who kind of want to stop。
him shutting the door because I've not been reading the Bible consistently."。
And so right after Alpha Day, on that day, we went to a bookstore to get a Bible.。
And after that, I told Zoe, "Okay, let's just read one chapter of the Bible and the gospel,。
just one chapter, because don't overburden yourself, don't kill yourself.。
But remember to just pray before reading and invite the Holy Spirit to really open your。
eyes to the living Word of God.。
Otherwise, it's just like any other book."。
And so it was at that time that I felt, "Ah, it's kind of mean to just ask her to do it。
herself."。
So I really felt the Spirit said, "Read it together with her."。
And so I offered that and just said, "Maybe just what's that one line of reflection?"。
But guess what?。
Zoe said, "No, can I email you instead?。
I want to properly write down my thoughts."。
That's how we started the journey on reading the Word together.。
And now it has been a month and we just finished the book of John and we're reading Matthew.。
And I remember 10 days after Alpha Day, it was June 20th, it was then that I came across。
the baptism course.。
And I was thinking, "Should I ask Zoe to join?"。
But little do I know, on the exact same day when she emailed me on her reflection, she。
said, "I've already signed up the course."。
So praise God for that.。
And Zoe also wants to take this opportunity to really thank everyone who has been so helpful。
in her journey.。
And she also wants to encourage you all to join Alpha.。
And she said, "Yeah, it would be nothing like what you've imagined until you actually participate."。
And can you share a bit about also your experience of walking with someone, sharing this conversation。
with Zoe?。
Yeah, sure.。
It has been such a joy.。
I've never thought that there would be such a joy experiencing firsthand.。
And the reason why I joined as a small group host is because I really want to learn.。
I'm really never the type that is good at evangelizing.。
I just feel super awkward sharing my faith.。
But at Alpha, it's such a relief because I don't have to speak much.。
I just have to give a space for people to throw out their questions and just share.。
And the beauty of Alpha is that I don't even have to answer any difficult questions because。
all the teaching is done through the video and also the life talks.。
So all I have to do is be a friend, and that I can do, and explore life with them and trust。
that in time, it is the Holy Spirit who will guide them to the truth.。
So I just have to give them a space for them to feel loved, welcomed, and heard.。
And to be honest, at the beginning, I was a bit helpless, especially when people started。
dropping out in the first few sessions.。
But I really felt really lucky that it's not just me, but there are great helpers in my。
group.。
And God also reminded me, after all, it's not my ability that matters.。
All I have to do is to purely rely on the Holy Spirit and to know that what God sees。
in me is just my willingness to partner with Him.。
If the focus is to give glory to God instead of myself, then I shouldn't have any pressure.。
My only role is to create a space for people to encounter Jesus directly.。
- Oh, let's thank Jennifer.。
Thank you so much.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
And so, as we come to a close, there's just one thing that Jennifer said that I would。
like to point out.。
And looking back at John 4, verse 14 says this.。
It said, "Whoever drinks the water I give them will never thirst.。
Indeed, the water I give them will become in them a spring of water welling up to eternal。
life."。
And this water that's spoken here, it speaks of the Holy Spirit, that Holy Spirit that。
Jennifer spoke about.。
And really, it's the Holy Spirit that sustains our relationship with God, that draws us into。
relationship with God.。
But it's also the Holy Spirit that empowers us as He fills us with this spring of water。
to share our testimony.。
It's the Holy Spirit that empowers us and anoints us and goes before us as we do.。
Yes, we're called to prepare our testimony, to craft our testimony, but when we do share。
it with people, after we've shared, it is over to the Holy Spirit to testify as to who。
Jesus is.。
We heard just now, the Spirit of truth who goes out from the Father, He will testify。
about me.。
So it's important for us to know we are encouraging each of us as we have a unique testimony to。
prepare that, but also to be released.。
It's not our responsibility whether someone comes to Christ.。
They may love your testimony, which is always great, and it's always disappointing when。
they don't respond.。
They might even think you're crazy, and we do risk that, and it does take courage, but。
we have freedom to just share what God has done in our lives so that it gives them an。
opportunity to experience God's love.。
And this really is what the River Vision is about.。
On Vision Sunday, Pastor Andrews spoke to us and reminded us that love and love alone。
is the gravity that moves the river of God's kingdom forward in a city.。
God has called us each to move the river of God's kingdom forward where He's placed you。
in your area, your sphere of influence.。
Your life is important.。
Your life in Jesus carries a weight that when you share speaks to the majesty, the greatness。
of Jesus.。
And so we are, as a church, we are called to make an impact on the city, and sharing。
your testimony hopefully is a way that you can share out of joy, out of what you have。
experienced with God without obligation, and share it where God has placed you.。
That's how the whole city can maybe start to impact, be impacted by Jesus' love.。
We heard how Eric shared that he became a Christian with his family.。
If we each share with one person, maybe in our workplace, in our school, in our gym,。
wherever we are, we share it with one person.。
We just heard from the Samaritan woman's testimony.。
Her one testimony caused that almost domino effect that brought the whole town to faith.。
So I really would love to encourage you.。
What is your testimony?。
What is your story?。
It's important.。
No one in here has an insignificant or bad testimony, and it's something that you can。
share.。
It shares your hope.。
It shares the power of Jesus, and as we each go out and do this, may God bring revival。
just like we sang just now.。
May God transform the city that we love.。
So yeah, I encourage you to take time to craft your testimony.。
And as we come to a close, I'd just love to invite us all to stand, and I'd love to pray。
for us.。
God, we thank you for this story of the Samaritan woman.。
We thank you for the power of one woman's words, one woman's story.。
And we thank you that every person in here and every person watching online has a story.。
And so God, empower them, anoint them, show them how they can craft their story.。
And I pray that you'll empower them to share it with people.。
You'll give them opportunities to share.。
If anyone does feel your story is not important, that's not true.。
That's not true.。
I pray that Jesus, as they prepare, they'll draw close to you.。
They'll encounter you again, that your Holy Spirit will draw them close into relationship.。
And for anyone facing hardship here, we thank you, Jesus.。
We thank you that we can entrust everything to you.。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
Amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
