- Thank you, Francesca.。
Oh, a lot of pressure.。
But thank you so much for coming in.。
Thank you so much for, you know,。
worshiping together the Lord.。
I think this is such a powerful moment for us。
just to come and be in the presence of God, yeah?。
Well, seven years ago, I handed in my resignation letter.。
I quit the job that I was doing for nine years。
in a primary school, and I went to Australia.。
Well, you live in Hong, we all live in Hong Kong,。
and we know how packed our timetable is.。
And I'm not just talking about the timetable。
for getting up, going to work, coming back,。
we have to make dinner, we have to go to bed,。
and we have to start everything again.。
It's not about that timetable.。
It's more about like, when do you start school?。
Do I start at two year old or three year old?。
You know, do I finish school,。
do I have a time for my gap year or not?。
When do I get married?。
There's a timetable to get married, to get pregnant,。
and then to buy a house.。
All these are so jam-packed that there's little。
for us to move about.。
It feels like everything is set on a timetable,。
every moment scheduled, and every detail planned。
with little room for mistakes.。
So when I moved to Australia,。
it felt like stepping into a completely new world,。
one without a map.。
No one's telling me what is going to happen next,。
no plan in my hand, with just a wide space。
full of possibilities.。
Well, for me, the change is not just about work.。
It's about giving myself a chance to rediscover who I am。
and to step out of all the boxes that people have put me in。
and to explore new things and to find a new me.。
Well, the first new me that I discovered,。
that is that I have natural curly hair.。
So when I moved to Australia,。
I stopped straightening my hair and found out that,。
wow, actually, this is, I have curly hair。
and I look pretty good in it, right?。
Okay, there's a little delay, but I accept that.。
It's okay. (laughs)。
Well, and it's not just about the outer,。
the facial appearance that was not a newer,。
but in the places, in that place,。
I discovered that my faith was often small,。
that there were many uncertainties。
and insecurities in myself.。
And in those moments, I began to learn。
how to rebuild my faith and how to grab hold of Jesus。
when I feel that I'm sinking.。
I was truly living in the no-map season,。
but it wasn't by accident that I stumbled upon Australia.。
It wasn't that I got lost, I got on a plane,。
and I happened to be in Australia.。
No, I made a conscious decision to enter into that space.。
I want to find myself again, to try new paths,。
to give myself space, to quietly hear God's voice,。
and to grow in a community that loved Him.。
The vision for our church this year。
is about being in the uncharted,。
but let me be clear, we're not just drifting along,。
waiting to see what's going to happen,。
following trends, or copying some 10-step。
to grow our church formula.。
Instead, we're intentionally placing ourselves。
in a position where God has room to lead us,。
to show us new direction and new possibilities.。
We want to trust the Holy Spirit to be our compass。
and not rely on the world's map.。
We want to be a people who are willing to step out,。
to take risks, and to obey God,。
not because we already have the answers。
or the roadmap to it, but because we know。
that it is God who truly does.。
Honestly, living in unknown and the uncharted。
is uncomfortable.。
Sometimes we think if we are walking with God。
and the Holy Spirit, things will be smooth,。
but actually, it can be even harder.。
With more challenges, God often leads us。
into places that we've never been。
or things we have never done before.。
There are no guarantees.。
And maybe you feel like that right now.。
Maybe you're walking on a road。
where you can't see what's happening next.。
Maybe God is asking you to let go of something。
that feels safest to you.。
Maybe let go of a relationship, a job,。
a role, or identity.。
Or maybe in this season, you are just tired,。
too tired to hope, too tired to hear God's voice。
above the noise.。
The irony is the more seriously you try to respond to God,。
to listen for His voice and let Him guide you,。
the more difficulties, doubts, and risks seems to appear,。
and the narrower the road feels.。
Sometimes you even ask, "God, I'm already trying.。
"I'm already responding to you.。
"Why is this still so hard?。
"Why am I so unsure?"。
And this is the tension that we are living in right now,。
this tension in the unknown.。
You have the Holy Spirit with you,。
but you also still face your own fears,。
your doubts, your insecurities, and your habits.。
Today, we're going to look at chapter four。
to see how in a season of unknowns,。
Peter and John modeled what it means。
to take a step forward even when the path isn't clear,。
and how we, too, can find courage and faith。
to keep going through uncertainty, insecurities,。
and even fear.。
Let us have a look at the first,。
first one to seven in Acts chapter four.。
This is to give all of you a little background.。
Peter and John just performed a miracle,。
and he helped the lame man who was lame for 40 years。
to rise up and walk, and everyone cheered,。
and he gave a sermon, a priesthood sermon。
to all the Jews around the area.。
But, here it goes, the priest and the captain。
of the temple guard and the seduces came up to Peter。
and John while they were speaking to the people.。
They were greatly disturbed because the apostles。
were teaching the people, proclaiming Jesus,。
the resurrection of the dead.。
They seized Peter and John, and because it was evening,。
they put him in jail until the next day.。
But many who heard the message believed,。
so the number of men who believed grew to about 5,000.。
The next day, the rulers, the elders,。
and the teachers of the Lord met in Jerusalem.。
Annas, the high priest, was there, and so were Caiaphas,。
John, Alexander, and other of the high priest family.。
They had Peter and John brought before them。
and began to question them.。
By what power or what name do you do this?。
At that time, present at the council。
were Annas, the high priest, Caiaphas,。
and other high priestly family members。
like John and Alexander.。
These were the high-ranking, most powerful religious leaders。
in Jewish society.。
The high priest family not only held enormous authority,。
but also in religious matters, in politics,。
wealth, and people's lives.。
They questioned them, using the authority。
to remind everyone who is in charge.。
By what power or what name did you do this?。
Sometimes, these kind of questions。
are what others say to us, and sometimes。
is what we say to ourselves.。
It might not sound exactly the same,。
but if you look closely, the pattern is familiar.。
The enemy is so good at using doubts, accusations,。
and intimidation to make us question ourselves and stop us。
from stepping forward.。
In our daily lives, these voices could sound like,。
who do you think you are?。
When you want to step out in faith, to share your story,。
you hear, who do you think you are?。
You're not good enough, not holy enough.。
You've messed up too many times.。
Don't get involved.。
What right do you have to live like this?。
When you try to set boundaries, forgive or change,。
there's that voice who says, you can do this.。
What makes you so special?。
Who gave you that right to believe God could use you?。
When you start to dream and pray boldly,。
you think, God wouldn't use someone like you.。
Don't kid yourself.。
Are you really forgiven?。
Are you truly lovable?。
When you try to walk in freedom and grace,。
you find your past failures playing on repeat,。
making you doubt whether God's grace is really enough for you.。
Have you noticed?。
These voices that always question, accuse, and make。
us shrink back, go silent, and stop moving forward。
in fear or shame sometimes.。
The Bible calls Satan the accuser of our brothers.。
His main goal is to make us forget who you are。
and whose you are.。
But look at how Peter and John answer these accusations.。
In verse 8 to 14, it says, "Then Peter,。
filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them,。
'Rulers and elders of the people,。
if we are being called to account today。
for an act of kindness shown to a man who was lame。
and are now being asked how he was healed,。
then know this, you and all the people of Israel.。
It is by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth,。
whom you crucified, but whom God raised from the dead,。
that this man stands before you healed.。
Jesus is the stone you builders rejected,。
which has become the cornerstone.。
Salvation is found in no one else,。
for there is no other name under heaven given to mankind。
by which we must be saved.'。
When they saw the courage of John and Peter。
and realized that they were unschooled, ordinary men,。
they were astonished.。
And they took note that these men had been with Jesus.。
But since they could see the man。
who had been healed standing there with them,。
there was nothing they could say.。
There was nothing they could say.。
The religious leader saw Peter and John's boldness。
and were shocked.。
They realized that these two are ordinary men,。
not that they are stupid,。
but they hadn't been trained in rabbinical schools。
or Greek academies,。
and hadn't learned how to debate in public.。
Normally, someone like Peter, facing a council,。
would have been terrified and speechless.。
But Peter wasn't afraid at all.。
He boldly pointed out that these leaders。
had crucified the very one God sent, Jesus.。
Peter and John were direct.。
They didn't defend themselves,。
trying to say, "No, I have the right to speak like this way.。
"I can preach to people like that way."。
They did not defend themselves.。
He just very directly and very boldly。
to point out who Jesus was.。
He also revealed the leaders' real problem.。
They valued their interest about God,。
were self-righteous,。
and refused to admit their own need of saving.。
As a result, they missed the miracle。
that Jesus did right in front of them。
and missed God's grace.。
His honesty came because he was truly walked with Jesus。
and had been transformed by Him.。
This courage is something no human training can give.。
It is obvious to everyone that they had been with Jesus.。
And what does it mean to be with Jesus?。
When someone had truly been with Jesus, it shows.。
Maybe you can already recognize these people。
in church or in life,。
that there's something different about them.。
That peace is different.。
The way that they understand you is different.。
The kindness and empathy stands out.。
They don't need to be the smartest or the most talented,。
but you can sense something different in them,。
a quality that is set apart, that is different.。
And that is what holiness means.。
It isn't just about moral perfection.。
There's no sin at all, but also being set apart,。
being shaped by what they do,。
being shaped by God's presence.。
When you love someone,。
you wanna eat what they want to eat.。
You try to learn their taste, right?。
You try to understand what they're thinking.。
You care about what they care about.。
We are shaped by the ones we love.。
When we truly love Jesus,。
we let him shape our priorities,。
our attitudes, and our responses.。
It is about letting his heart change ours.。
And that's how, in a world of accusations and competitions,。
we can be a different kind of people.。
We can be set apart.。
And so they ordered them to withdraw from the Sanhedrin。
and then confer together.。
"What are we going to do with these men?" they ask.。
Everyone living in Jerusalem knows。
they have performed a notable sign, and we cannot deny it.。
But to stop this thing from spreading。
any further among the people,。
we must warn them to speak no longer。
to anyone in this name.。
Even though the authorities saw。
how undeniable the evidence is,。
a healed man standing before them,。
they refused to admit it.。
Even if they denied the number of men。
who believed had already reached 5,000.。
This movement, this power is spreading fast,。
and the leaders felt out of control.。
And what could they do?。
These religious leaders could arrest the apostles。
and use their power to threaten them,。
but they could not stop the gospel.。
They could imprison people,。
but they could not imprison God's work.。
All the human tactics were powerless。
compared to God's power.。
That's always the way it is.。
Those who oppose God try to suppress the truth,。
but it never works.。
All the accusations,。
all the things that we have been listening。
from when we were young up to when we're adult right now,。
that the things that told us that you are not enough,。
that you are not lovable, all these things,。
they are just tactics,。
but they cannot stop the power of the gospel。
working out in your life.。
All the question that you have been questioning。
about yourself, we have to release them back to God。
and tell God that this is what I'm hearing.。
Is this from you?。
I'm trying to walk with you.。
I wanna be shaped by what you care about.。
I want to know your priorities.。
And if these thoughts, these things are not from you,。
are not aligning from you,。
the power of the gospel is going to work in my life。
so that I will no longer, no longer be bound by the sin,。
no longer be bound by these accusations.。
Peter and John weren't fearless because they were brave.。
They had walked with Jesus.。
They had seen his miracles.。
They watched him calm storms with a few words。
and witnessed him heal the sick.。
And most of all, seen him defeat death.。
Their courage doesn't come from their personality。
or training, it came from a real,。
living relationship with Jesus.。
It was a result of years of friendship,。
of seeing him work, of being forgiven and restored by him.。
With those experiences,。
they knew that every threat and intimidation was nothing。
compared to the power of God.。
Even knowing their lives were at risk and the price was high,。
they could keep going because they knew。
the resurrected Lord was truly in charge.。
Even at the hardest, scariest moment,。
they could move forward with confidence.。
Even when they feel scared, there could be courage。
because God's will will be done and no one could stop God.。
And that's why we need to walk with Jesus.。
Only by staying close with him, knowing him,。
and making him our foundation can we have the strength。
to keep going even when things are tough.。
And speaking of courage in the face of fear,。
I have my own story to tell.。
Actually, this is not the first time for me to apply。
for a full-time role at the Vine Church.。
Remember I talked about how I left my teaching job,。
went to Australia, I came back and I still continue to teach。
but then there was a moment when there was an opening。
in the Vine One Chi and I had a chance to interview。
for a full-time position at the Vine.。
The interview went very smooth.。
It was during COVID and I have to do it in a separate room。
but inside, like the interview went smooth,。
but inside I was so nervous.。
I was so, I had so much fear in my heart。
because I already had a very stable job, a teaching job.。
Life was comfortable.。
It was hard to imagine making such a big change in my age.。
I think I've told you guys before,。
I handed my assignment in university using a floppy disk.。
Those that laughed, you're in my age group.。
It was hard to imagine having to make such a big change。
at my age, stepping into something so different, even harder.。
This decision meant giving up a lot。
and facing pressure from my family.。
They loved me and want me to have a stable, comfortable life。
so it was hard for them to understand or support me.。
So in the end, I didn't go through with the interview.。
A few years later, I got involved with church planting,。
serving wholeheartedly as a volunteer.。
Looking back, I see God's grace.。
He didn't blame me because June, you gave up last time.。
Why do I still give you another chance?。
No more chances for you.。
He didn't blame me for feeling scared.。
He didn't blame me for backing out。
but he gave me time to grow, to learn to love him,。
to love the church more deeply.。
Serving this time felt different, deep inside.。
The past years, I've kept experiencing his grace and love。
and realized that I've always been accepted and led by him.。
So this time, choosing again to go full-time in ministry,。
the fear is still there and it is very real.。
It still means that I have to let go of what I see。
in my future and facing uncertainty.。
And my family's worries,。
but God's love is helping me slowly let go of my fears.。
Even with all the unknowns and sacrifices,。
I'm more certain than ever that what God gives me。
will be enough and his strength。
will lead me through every single step.。
I still can't see past this year or the next year,。
but I know that I can see past all these years。
right to the end of my life that God is going to be there。
and he is not going to forfeit me.。
He's not going to let me go.。
That this provision, this grace,。
that this love that he has for me。
to provide for me in this journey,。
that he will provide in all the areas of my life.。
That this grace that I'm having, that receiving,。
is not going to be just enough for today,。
but for the rest of my journey with him.。
I've realized that courage isn't the absence of fear,。
but fearing the right one.。
There are many reasons why I could be fearful.。
I could be fearful financially or about my pathway。
or my family or what I'm going to do。
when it's the end of the pathway.。
There are so many things that I could be fearful of,。
but that's another meaning to the word fear, is to honor.。
I honor my God.。
I honor Jesus in my life.。
And that is going to give me the courage。
to take the next step.。
Now let's take a look at Peter and John,。
how they responded when the authorities。
tried to silence them.。
Then they called them in again。
and commanded them not to speak or teach at all。
in the name of Jesus.。
But Peter and John replied,。
"Which is right in God's eyes,。
"listen to you or to him, you be the judges.。
"As for us, we cannot help speaking about。
"what we have seen and heard."。
When they were ordered to be quiet。
and stop talking about Jesus,。
Peter and John answered,。
"You decide whether it is right for us to obey you or God.。
"But as for us, we cannot help speaking about。
"what we have seen and heard."。
What have you seen and heard lately from Jesus?。
That you go, "I've heard this,。
"I cannot stop talking about it."。
Just like you had some really delicious food.。
You went to a restaurant, it go, "So delicious."。
You can't help but tell everyone around you。
to go and try that place.。
It is like this.。
Have you seen and taste the goodness of God?。
It's not that he isn't there,。
but we need to place ourself in a position。
where we could hear him and taste his goodness。
and be revealed his glorious love and grace to us.。
There are a lot of layers to Peter and John's answer here.。
First, they actually flipped the situation around.。
What's remarkable is that through the wisdom。
that comes from being filled by the Holy Spirit,。
Peter and John were able to completely。
turn the situation around.。
Just moments before, they were the ones on trial,。
being questioned, accused, and judged。
by the most powerful religious leaders in the land.。
But when they were filled by the Holy Spirit,。
they shifted the focus.。
Suddenly, it was the high priest and the rulers。
who were being put on trial,。
not before human caught, but before God himself.。
Now the question was not about Peter and John's authority,。
but about the leaders' willingness to obey God.。
The wisdom of the Holy Spirit enabled Peter and John。
to see through the intimidation,。
to stand firm in their conviction,。
and to expose a deeper truth.。
Who are you really serving?。
Whose voice are you listening to?。
The same spirit-given wisdom is what we need。
when we face accusation or pressure,。
so that we too can discern what is truly right。
in God's eyes, and to have the courage to stand before him.。
Second, this is a mirror for us.。
When we are under pressure or fear,。
which could be real, and I'm not undermining。
how challenging life could be.。
When we are asked to compromise,。
or struggling to hold on to our faith,。
Peter and John's question is for us too.。
Can I hear God's voice in this?。
Or am I just listening to the loudest voices in the world?。
Am I serving out of my own comfort, or serving Christ?。
Their response wasn't stubbornness,。
or trying to argue their way through,。
but they're just being honest.。
I cannot help but speak about what we have seen or heard.。
And I feel like in our midst right now,。
there are times when we cannot hold on anymore.。
When we need to be strong, and we need to remember。
the goodness of Jesus, but it's just so difficult.。
And that's why we gather together in church,。
because when you talk about God's goodness in your life,。
this is going to happen to your friends sitting next to you.。
When you testify the goodness and the grace in Jesus' name,。
this is going to stir up a power in this community,。
that not because we can't do it, but in community,。
together we can witness the power and the grace of God.。
So never stop coming back, never stop meeting,。
and just don't come and be yourself,。
but I encourage you to be in community, to make friends,。
because today you can be someone else's encouragement,。
you are going to testify the power and the holiness of God.。
And tomorrow, others might do the same for you.。
And we are building this church together。
in this uncharted season.。
This is uncharted season for us,。
and we're gonna do this together,。
because it is God who brought us all together in this place.。
Amen?。
Maybe God is inviting each of us。
to respond like Peter and John.。
When we face fear, confusion, or pressure,。
Peter and John's words can be a filter for our hearts.。
Who am I listening to right now?。
Are my actions led by God's perspective,。
or just shaped by the outside pressure?。
So often, just honestly asking ourselves these questions。
helps us see what's really happening inside.。
Peter and John didn't claim to know everything,。
or have all the answers.。
They just honestly said,。
"We've seen, heard, and experienced God,。
"and we can't be quiet about it."。
Maybe for you, having the courage to take the next step。
isn't about figuring out all the answers,。
or know where you're going,。
but just be honest about your journey with God,。
and letting that truth be the foundation。
for your next step of faith.。
When we're hesitant or struggling,。
Jesus doesn't walk away.。
He comes to meet us right at the place。
where we're most afraid, most resistant,。
and least willing to face.。
Grace isn't just for the moments when we're doing well.。
It's even more for the times we fail,。
we fear, or we want to hide.。
The same Jesus who sought Peter。
after he denied him three times,。
restored him and embraced him,。
and he does the same for me and for you.。
He comes to find us, welcomes us, forgives us,。
and encourage us to move forward.。
Even when you feel your faith or courage isn't enough,。
his love is enough to cover you.。
His love, his power, his wisdom。
is bigger than our decision.。
But the work we need to put in is to surrender.。
The work that we need to put in is to walk with him,。
be close to him.。
The work that we need to put in is to check our intentions.。
I often hear the saying,。
God is not going to be mad at us and go,。
you want to serve the orphans,。
but I told you to serve the children.。
He's not gonna do that.。
But what we need to figure out is,。
what is my intention of wanting to do that?。
Am I doing it, the ministry, church thing,。
school thing, work thing,。
out of my own glory and my own benefit?。
Or is my intention focusing on God?。
Jesus is going to wrap us up。
when we're feeling the weakest。
and inviting us not to rely on our own strength,。
but to trust his love and faithfulness。
and bring our weakness closer to him.。
And I'd like to invite the worship team to come up.。
As we move into a time of prayer and ministry,。
we need to be open to God's love.。
And as we move into a time of prayer and ministry,。
maybe there's something that God is bringing up。
in your heart.。
Maybe a place of uncertainty, a fear,。
or step he's inviting you to take.。
So I would like to invite you to close our eyes。
and just be ministered.。
(soft music)。
A lot has been said today.。
But then what is the most important word。
that needs to be spoken?。
It's the word that the Holy Spirit。
is speaking to you right now.。
Maybe there's something that you have inside your heart。
that you know that you want to take,。
but there's fear.。
Maybe there are doubts.。
Jesus is not telling you to brush it away.。
Just have courage, brush it away.。
No, he said, look at that.。
Look at that fear.。
Look at the thing that you're afraid of。
and tell Jesus, why are you afraid of that?。
What is triggering you?。
What is bothering you?。
And you can give it to Jesus.。
Maybe he's showing you the next step that you should take.。
(soft music)。
And I just pray that in this time,。
you're going to open your heart and open your eyes.。
And just like a child, we can run to Jesus,。
his accepting love.。
It's going to embrace you.。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
