As you sit down, can I encourage you to squeeze in a little bit?。
There is an empty seat next to you.。
Could you just put your hand up in the upper house and lower house?。
Our host, the overflow is full, but there are a few people standing around,。
and we would love to be able to get them a seat.。
So if you have an empty seat next to you, just throw your hand up in the air,。
and we will try and make sure we can seat as many people as possible.。
Otherwise, you're more than welcome to stand here and around,。
or just sit on the floor as well.。
We're happy for that, too.。
We're just grateful that everybody is here.。
We don't want anyone to miss out on what the Holy Spirit is saying and doing.。
One of the things that we've noticed here at the Vine over the last little while。
is that the Lord is doing a new thing amongst us.。
And when the Lord does a new thing, it's important for us to just pause,。
and just to name, and understand, and recognize the new thing that God is doing.。
Not because we want to stop that thing,。
not because we want to try to contain what the Lord is doing,。
but because we actually want to do the opposite.。
We want to release it and fan it into flame, and see it happen all the more.。
And sometimes when we understand what it is that God is doing,。
it enables us to then just continue to get out of the way,。
and then let Him continue to do what He wants to do in us.。
And in two weeks' time, we've got Vision Sunday here at the Vine,。
and I want to talk specifically,。
and I want to put some very specific flesh and bones around what it is。
that I think God is doing in the new thing that He's doing in this season。
that we're here as a church, and particularly the call that is on us,。
and how we can consecrate ourselves towards that call in the year ahead.。
So in two weeks' time, I'm looking forward to unpacking that.。
But as I was sort of sitting over the last couple of weeks,。
and just preparing my heart for Vision Sunday,。
thinking about what passages to be preaching from,。
I felt like the Lord laid on my heart another message,。
a message that needed to be preached before Vision Sunday,。
that really encapsulates the why of this new season that we're in,。
the why of what God is doing by His Spirit last week, this week,。
and ongoing amongst us.。
We've been saying to you, haven't we, that this is to be a year。
where the Lord is shifting us out of a year of intimacy in 2024,。
to a year of action in 2025.。
And we've been specifically saying that the Lord is calling us。
to live our faith more publicly in the year ahead.。
And so what I want to do this morning is help us to understand the why。
of why God is calling us to be much more public with our faith.。
And it connects so much to the picture and the word。
that Susannah and Karen carried for us to not be hiding our identity。
in the places of spirit of influence that God has put us in,。
but for us to fly the banner of Jesus Christ。
in prophetic, important, wise, humble, but beautiful ways。
in the city of Hong Kong, a city that we love so much.。
What we need to understand, I think, first of all,。
is that when God moves amongst His people,。
when there is an activity of God that is new amongst His people,。
His people always respond in worship and adoration.。
There has to be a connection between the move of God。
and the release of praise, the release of honor,。
the release of worship, glorification of the church to Him.。
I think that's profoundly what we saw last week.。
I think we've sensed that amongst us here.。
And one of the things that I'm so grateful for,。
my wife and I have been a part of the Vine。
pretty much since the beginning, almost 30 years now.。
One thing that I know that we're so grateful for。
is that the Lord has always blessed this community。
with a deep sense of His presence when we gather together on a Sunday.。
Worship has always been something that has been fundamental。
to the life of the Vine Church.。
When we hold our newcomers events, we've got one coming up shortly,。
when we hold our newcomers events and we ask people,。
"Why are you coming to the Vine?。
How did you hear about the Vine?"。
Almost nine out of 10 people will say, "I'm here because of the worship.。
I'm here because when I come here..."。
And they're not just meaning the musicians and the singers。
and all the stuff that we do on the stage, as good as some of them are.。
What we're meaning and what their meaning is,。
"When I come to the Vine, I feel the presence of God.。
There's the presence of God amongst us, and that draws me to want to be here.。
I know when I show up, the Holy Spirit speaks to me.。
I know that there's an encounter with God.。
I love our corporate worship times."。
And again, we celebrate what the Lord has been doing amongst us over these 30 years.。
And I think now, even in a new season of deepening His presence。
and the worship that is happening here at the Vine on Sundays.。
Now, here's the danger though, when that takes place in a community。
and in a corporate body.。
The danger is that we begin to think that that's the totality of what worship is.。
Because it's such an amazing experience,。
because when we come in for those 90 minutes on a Sunday。
and we experience the presence of God, we begin to define that as worship.。
And we begin to think that that is the totality, the sum whole purpose of worship.。
And we even begin to use language like, "I'm going to go to worship on Sunday."。
And of course, when we come in here, of course we do worship.。
That's the beautiful thing of what happens in this room.。
But we've got to be very careful that we don't make that the sum total。
of what God means in worship.。
Because if we do, then what we're going to end up doing is only looking to this 90 minutes。
and thinking that this is the way and the fullness of who God is。
and begin to diminish the reality of what God's doing out there.。
You see, I think in a year when God's calling the Vine into a year of action,。
when he's calling a church to live their lives and their faith more publicly in the year ahead,。
we cannot begin to do that unless we redefine how we think about worship。
from an experience in a room to a lifestyle in the world.。
Come on, church.。
We've got to begin to think differently about what worship is.。
That worship isn't just, and it is this amazing thing we're doing here,。
but that's not the totality of it.。
And as we begin to shift our thinking from an experience in a room。
to a lifestyle that we live in the world, then worship begins to say something。
to the broken and the lost and the hurting and the vulnerable,。
which is the reason why the church exists in the first place.。
The church does not exist to be a holy huddle.。
The church does not exist so that people would feel comfortable and happy.。
The church exists because God wants to save sinners.。
He wants to bring people into his kingdom.。
That he's longing to see people have their lives dramatically changed.。
And while we will continue to do all that we can to ensure。
that the presence of God is primary in our gatherings,。
while we'll continue to invest our resources and energy。
to what happens when we gather like this on a Sunday,。
we've got to realize that this is not the totality of what worship is.。
And we've got to understand that actually what we're doing here。
is a modern expression.。
It doesn't mean that it's a bad thing.。
It just means that this is a modern thing that we're doing.。
And that scripture paints a picture of worship。
that is much broader and deeper and wider and more glorious and more public。
than I think in the modern church we come to realize.。
Could it be that one of the new things that God is saying amongst us。
is that our worship and ultimately our faith is far too private?。
I want to unpack that thought for you a little bit today。
by taking you to one of my favorite Psalms.。
It's Psalm 40.。
And the whole Psalm is incredible.。
We don't have time today to go through the whole Psalm.。
But I would encourage you, if this is a helpful message to you。
at the end of the service that you go away at some point today。
and read through the whole Psalm。
because it all speaks on the topic I'm looking at today.。
But I want to focus just on the first three verses.。
And I want to show you the Psalm is attributed to David.。
We don't know whether specifically David wrote it or not.。
But I'm going to assume that he did for the purposes of the message today.。
And I want to read you the first three verses。
where David is explaining something truly profound that's happened to him.。
Starting in verse 1.。
It says, "I waited patiently for the Lord, and He turned to me and heard my cry.。
He lifted me out of the slimy pit, out of the mud and the mire,。
and He set my feet on a rock, and He gave me a firm place to stand.。
He put a new song in my mouth, a hymn of praise to our God.。
Many will see and fear and put their trust in the Lord."。
I love what David does here.。
In the first two verses, he actually gives a personal testimony.。
He's writing a poem here, which was going to be turned into a song,。
which would be sung by Israel as a whole.。
And in that, he starts the first two verses with this personal testimony.。
He says, basically, there was a time in my life where things were difficult,。
where things were hard.。
He describes it beautifully and poetically as a slimy, miry pit.。
He said, "I was waiting in that time patiently for the Lord to come."。
I realized that there was nothing that I could do to drag myself out of this pit.。
The reason why I think he describes it as a slimy pit。
is every time he tried to get himself out of it, he just slipped and stayed in it.。
And so he's not able to find a foothold in this kind of thing,。
this situation in his life that was happening.。
And he says, "I'm waiting patiently for the Lord to come and do something that only He can do."。
Yesterday, over our three services, sorry, last week over our three services,。
I probably prayed for like 50 or so individual people here at the Vine.。
It was such a beautiful time.。
And everybody that came forward, I think they would echo what David is saying here.。
They would say that, "Hey, I'm in a tough situation.。
There's something going on in my life, and I've tried to fix it,。
and I've tried to do it, and it's not worked out.。
And I just seem to find myself still stuck in this place, but I'm hopeful.。
I'm waiting.。
I'm expecting that the Lord will come."。
And so many of you last week expressed that desire,。
that there's still hope even when circumstances are challenging.。
And so David expresses this hope, "I'm waiting patiently in the miry place."。
And then he gives his testimony.。
He says, "Then God turned to me and He lifted me out."。
I love what he said.。
He said, "I'm slipping and sliding when I'm trying to do it myself.。
He lifts me up and He puts me on a rock.。
He puts me on a solid ground.。
Only He could do that.。
It's for His glory.。
It's a beautiful thing."。
So his testimony is that God did come and meet him in his challenging situation。
and brought him into a new situation.。
But that's not all that he's saying.。
See, the beauty of these verses as they then flow into verse 3。
is that David wants you to know that there's not just a circumstantial change for him.。
He wants you to know that there has been an internal change for him.。
He's like, "When God comes and does something like that dramatically in our lives,。
changes our situation and circumstances,。
and puts us in a place where we're solidly safe and we can flourish from that point,。
is always a change that happens inside of me."。
David's like, "It's not just a circumstance change.。
It's a personal change."。
And he begins to testify to the reality of that personal change in verse 3.。
And this is the verse that I want us to really focus on.。
We're going to unpack this in some detail.。
Let me read it again.。
He said, "He put a new song in my mouth, a hymn of praise to our God.。
Many will see and fear and put their trust in him."。
He starts by saying, "He put a new song."。
We're talking about a new season here at the Vine.。
Here's David standing for his people.。
And he said, "God put this new song in me."。
This is beautiful because David's trying to tell them。
that there is something that has happened in him that had never happened before.。
It's interesting, in the New Testament, which is written in Greek,。
there are two Greek words for the word "new."。
There's "neos," which means something new from a thing that was old.。
So taking an old thing and making it newer.。
And then there's the word "kynos," which we also translate as "new" in the New Testament.。
But that means something new from something that never existed before.。
Completely brand new.。
Now, the Old Testament is written in Hebrew.。
So that's not the word that's being used here.。
But interestingly, when the Old Testament was translated into Greek in Alexandria。
for the Greco-Roman Empire that were beginning to understand the Scriptures,。
the Greek version of the Old Testament, which is known as the LXX,。
the Greek version uses the word "kynos" here to describe what David's saying.。
In other words, he's saying, "This is not a new thing God is doing me。
in the sense that there are some old things that God has taken。
and blown the dust off and polished them up and tried to make them new."。
He's saying, "No, you've got to understand that when God does something in our lives,。
it's like there's this new thing that happens.。
It had never happened before.。
It is completely, utterly brand new.。
And it has totally transformed and revolutionized my life."。
And he wants the people to know that when God moves,。
so oftentimes it's not just that blowing off the dust and trying to make old things better.。
It's a completely new revolution.。
He's like, "That's the thing that's happened."。
Now, I want you to see what he says.。
He says, this is important, he says, "He put this new song in me."。
He emphasizes that God has placed it.。
He doesn't say, "I found a new song in me.。
Oh, I was tired.。
I was desperate, but I looked within myself and I found a new song."。
He doesn't say, "I earned the new song, that I created the new song,。
that I did the new song, that I deserved the new song."。
No, he's very specific.。
He says, "God put in me the new song.。
It's his work.。
It's his activity.。
I didn't earn it.。
I didn't deserve it.。
I didn't create it.。
No, he placed it in me.。
The very new thing he did, it was from him."。
Now, this is really important because here's what I think what happens so often in the church。
when God does a new thing.。
So often it's easy in a church context when God does a new thing for us to begin to think。
it's the result of some of the things we've done.。
"Oh, God's moving in a new way.。
It's because we prayed long and hard.。
Oh, it's because we did this.。
Oh, it's because we did that.。
Oh, isn't it great that God's doing a new thing?。
It must mean that we're in right standing with God.。
It must mean that we've done all these right things.。
It must mean that our worship is right and our prayers are right."。
And we begin to actually look to ourselves as the reason why God has done a new thing.。
And David wants to stand before his people and say, "No, no, no.。
I didn't do anything.。
Oh, sure.。
I was waiting patiently for him.。
I held onto hope.。
Sure, I postured myself in the right way, but it was purely a sovereign act of God that。
he lifted me out of that pit, put me on the solid ground.。
He then changed something within me.。
He worked by his spirit in me, not because I'd earned it or done something special, but。
just simply because he is sovereign and glorious and good and filled with love.。
He put it in me."。
And the problem is when we look at the good new thing that's happening and begin to think。
that actually it might be down to us, here's what happens.。
We don't start to think worship.。
We start to think worth it.。
Come on, church.。
We don't think worship like, "Oh, wow.。
Isn't he amazing?"。
We begin to think, "Oh, we're beginning to do some right things at church now.。
We're beginning to get it all right."。
And we begin to quash the new thing that is happening because we've essentially highlighted。
idolatry.。
We've made it about ourselves.。
One of the things I loved about last week, I remember when I got up last week at the。
11 and we had that time of silence for those of you here.。
At that time, I had no idea what was going to happen next.。
I didn't know if I was going to preach or not.。
I didn't know anything.。
I literally just stood up there and was like, "Let's just shut up and listen."。
And God did what he wanted to do.。
He put a new song in our mouths.。
Are you with me?。
Here's the thing you have to understand.。
It is not our song.。
It is his.。
And when we actually place ourselves in the realization that it is not our song, it is。
his, that puts us in a place of worship.。
That puts us in a humility place, in a place where we recognize that it is God at work。
and not us.。
It is his song, not our own.。
He put it inside of us and we respond in that.。
One of the things that I think is so good, and I really want to honor Emmer and Jethro.。
They work incredibly hard, them and the worship pastors and the worship leaders and the volunteers。
in our worship team.。
They give so many hours and not just what you see on a Sunday.。
There is a lot of work and prayer and everything that goes behind the scenes to be able to。
do what they do for you, for us on a Sunday.。
And one of the things that I know from a platform ministry myself is that the platform is a。
very seductive place.。
The platform is a place where egos come in and where it is easy to begin to think that,。
"Oh, because I have done something, God has responded."。
And one of the things that I really honor in Emmer and Jethro, why I think they are。
such gifts to us, is that I see them off the platform, not just on the platform.。
And I know that these are two people in the wider team and the culture that they're instilling。
in the wider team is one where they're basically saying, "It's not our song, it's His."。
It's not about us, it's about Him.。
And the most that we can get out of ourselves and allow Him to be who He is, then the more。
glorified He will be.。
And I think one of the reasons why we are able to glorify Christ is because they are。
doing their very best to not glorify themselves.。
And I honor that.。
Can we give them a round of applause?。
Because I just really honor that.。
You need to understand that your worship is always going to be the most authentically。
glorifying when you constantly remind yourself that it is His song and not your own.。
That is the way that we bring Christ the greatest amount of glory.。
Now, notice what he says now.。
Is this helping people?。
Notice what he says next.。
I love this.。
He says, "Now, He's put this new song in my mouth."。
Now, I want you to first of all see, he says, "in my mouth."。
He doesn't stand before Israel and say, "Come on, Israel, He's put a new song in our mouths."。
And there's power in corporate worship.。
But David wants to be really clear that what God has done, the testimony that He's just。
given, and the fact that He said, "God and His sovereignty has done it in me and has。
changed something within me."。
He's saying, "It's now in my mouth."。
In other words, this is a personal thing that has happened.。
It is something that has truly impacted and changed me.。
And it's in my mouth, which means I have a responsibility with what I do with it.。
This is so important.。
He's not saying, "Hey, it's in our mouths.。
And hey, if you guys do something, then cool, because I don't need to."。
He's saying, "No, no, there's a responsibility on me because of what the gospel, what God。
has done in my life, it is in my mouth.。
And the question is, what am I going to do with it?"。
And if you're thinking about how you might be able to live the gospel more actively and。
more publicly in your life ahead, here's a question to ask yourself.。
What is the song that God has put into your mouth for you to sing?。
It'll look different for each one of us, because the way that the Holy Spirit works within。
each one of us is different.。
There's a different testimony, a different sense of His working, a different thing that。
He's doing in our lives.。
And as we begin to wrestle with what it is that Christ has done uniquely in us, that。
becomes the song we can sing.。
And there's something profound that happens when somebody gives a personal testimony to。
the way that God is.。
And I want you to hear this.。
This is equally as important.。
Somebody else's song is not your new song to sing.。
Come on, church.。
Somebody else's song is not your new song to sing.。
That doesn't mean that we can't be moved into worship because somebody else's testimony.。
No, of course we can.。
In fact, last week in our service here at The Eleven, we had somebody testify before。
the start of our worship time, and we all responded in worship because of their testimony.。
So yes, we do move into worship off of the testimony of someone else.。
But here's what David's trying to communicate.。
He's like, God has done something uniquely for you, uniquely in you.。
And the new song, the new thing that is coming up out of you is not the manner of somebody。
else, it's got to be your manner.。
It's got to be the thing that is placed inside of you.。
And as you bring glory and recognition to God for what he's done in you, it's your。
song, which is crazy because he's just said, God has put it, it's God's song, not mine,。
but he's done it in me.。
So I must proclaim.。
I must own it.。
I must have that responsibility to speak it out.。
And somebody else's song is not your new song to sing.。
If you try to be like somebody else in the kingdom, you will always fail to authentically。
worship God.。
Say that again.。
You try to be somebody else in the kingdom and live somebody else's life and live their。
testimony and live their praise.。
You will never live the most authentic version of who you are because you were created to。
praise.。
Now, notice he says here, he says, he has put this in my mouth.。
I love this.。
Notice what he doesn't say.。
He doesn't say he's put this in my heart, which kind of theologically actually probably。
makes more sense.。
Like maybe David should have said, hey, you know, he's done this amazing thing.。
He's changed this thing.。
He's done this stuff within me.。
He's put a new song in my heart.。
He doesn't say heart here.。
He says mouth.。
And I think he's doing that on purpose.。
If he had said he's put a new song in my heart, what he's basically saying is he's done something。
private for me.。
He's done something that has changed me within.。
He's done something that is a private experience that I'm so grateful for.。
This is a little bit like Mary when Mary encounters the activity of God as she becomes pregnant。
with Christ through the Holy Spirit.。
The Bible says that she hides these things in her heart.。
It was an important thing that happened for her personally, but it was a private thing。
that she wrestled with in her heart.。
David doesn't want Israel to think that way.。
So he says he's put this new song in my mouth because he's wanting to shift his people from。
a private thinking in their faith to a public thinking in their faith.。
Because when a song is in your mouth, it's for you to proclaim.。
When it's in your heart, it might be something for you to wrestle with and hold in your heart.。
When it's in your mouth, the specific emphasis is that this is something that happened in。
the private that needs to be made public.。
Oh, he's put a new song, something I've never done, something only he could do.。
He's placed it within me, but it's in my mouth because he wants me to testify, to release,。
to proclaim the beauty of what he's done.。
The reality is, though, I think so often in the church and so often I can even say personally。
in my own life, we get so comfortable in the privacy of our faith that we lose the muscle。
memories of our mouths.。
And we lose the ability to truly proclaim the gospel as we've been called to do.。
And we just make the gospel a private thing that happens behind four walls and a closed。
door and has nothing to do.。
And then like black knights, we slip out into the world hoping that no one sees Jesus in。
us.。
David's saying it's in my mouth for a very important reason.。
And if we think about why is it that we so often hold it in our hearts and not proclaim。
it in our mouths, not live it out in the way we should, I think there are some good reasons.。
Sometimes there's fear.。
And trust me, sharing your faith publicly, sharing your faith more actively, is a good。
thing.。
Sharing it more actively with your colleagues and with your family, it's not an easy thing.。
It is a fearful thing.。
It can be kind of scary.。
We wonder how they'll respond.。
We wonder how they will react.。
I understand that.。
But I think oftentimes we don't actually use our mouths or we proclaim ourselves the glory。
of what God's done in us because we've seen other people do it so badly.。
And because they've done it so badly, we don't want to be associated with it.。
We've seen people smack people over the head with a Bible and we're like, "We want to。
do it as possible."。
We've seen people take a loud hailer and scream at people in the streets and we're like, "We。
don't want to be associated with that kind of Christianity."。
And here's what happens.。
Because we're so trying to push away from the poor examples of what it is to share our。
faith, we end up not sharing our faith at all.。
And we begin to lose the muscle memory of what actually God has put in our mouths.。
And I think what David's trying to say here is, "Look, just because some people have done。
it in a bad way doesn't mean you have to do it in a bad way."。
Just because some people have made the name of Christ bad doesn't mean Christ's name is。
bad.。
And that maybe there's something that the Holy Spirit is calling us into to say, "Oh,。
he's put this song in my mouth because there's something I need to do to proclaim it in some。
public way so that change might happen."。
Notice what it is that we proclaim.。
He says this, "A hymn of praise to our God."。
The Hebrew concept of a hymn of praise here is the famous word, "Hallelujah," that we。
hear so much about in our modern context as well.。
"Hallelujah" is this beautiful Hebrew concept.。
It's a word and a concept that comes around it that literally means "Praise God."。
And when we think about "Hallelujah," oftentimes in our modern context, and even, I think,。
a lot of times when it's used in modern worship context, the translation we have in our mind。
is that "Hallelujah" is about like a, "Praise God, you're awesome!"。
We think it's almost like a worship prompt.。
Like, "Hallelujah" is like a, "Praise God, God, you're awesome."。
Well, it's not actually emphasizing that kind of praise.。
The word "Hallelujah" in its Hebrew is a command, not a exhaustation.。
In other words, it's not, "Praise God!"。
It's, "Praise God."。
I'm serious.。
In the Hebrew context, it's not, "Praise God, he's amazing!"。
"Praise God, he's amazing!"。
It's, "Get off your butt and praise God."。
Like, "Get up and be active and praise God."。
Like, you can't just stay there and pretend you're a Christian and not give him public praise.。
Like, you need to bring a "Hallelujah" to this world.。
You need to say to the people around you, "What are you doing?"。
To live out the gospel in creative and amazing ways.。
You should be praising God.。
"Hallelujah" is a call to Israel.。
Every single time you see it in the Old Testament, it's a call to Israel。
to not hide their faith.。
It's saying to Israel, "Get up and praise God."。
"Get up and testify about what God has done."。
"Get up and use your mouths and your lives to begin to model something to the world。
of the character and the nature and the grace of God."。
"Hallelujah!"。
He's put a song of praise in my mouth.。
It is a hymn of praise.。
It is a "Hallelujah!"。
And therefore, it is not just a proclamation.。
It is also an invitation.。
It's not just a, "You're great!"。
It's, "He's great. Here's why."。
And you can know a God who's great.。
I want you to also praise Him.。
So in order for you to praise Him, let me share with you what He's done in my life.。
It's a proclamation and an invitation.。
He has put a new song in my mouth, and it is a "Hallelujah!"。
It's beautiful, isn't it?。
Now, notice then what He says, and this is how He finishes.。
I love this.。
He says, "Many will see and fear and put their trust in the Lord."。
Now, this is kind of interesting.。
Follow the logic of David here.。
He's talking about a song, a new song that God has placed in his mouth.。
He's described it as a hymn of praise.。
He said that, "I am going to proclaim it publicly."。
And then He says, "All will hear the song and come to know the Lord."。
That's not what He says.。
Now, that would be the logical thing to say.。
I'm talking about some thing that I'm going to project with my mouth and sing a new song.。
So all who hear.。
He doesn't say that.。
He says, "All will see and fear and know the Lord."。
And I think David's being so prophetically brilliant here.。
Because what he's saying, he's already said so far in this verse, "We are to proclaim."。
But then he's also saying, "If all you ever do is say something,。
then that's never really the fullness of the power of what God's doing."。
You need to make sure your life, how you act, the way you are,。
marries to what it is that you say.。
Because if all you're doing is proclaiming the love of Christ,。
and you're not loving your enemies, you're nothing.。
You're just a resounding gong and a clanging cymbal.。
If all you're doing is saying, "Hey, I can speak with the tongue of men and angels,。
and everything's going to be great."。
But you're not actually giving your life up and picking up your cross。
and taking Jesus seriously.。
Then he's basically saying, "You're not saying anything."。
You've got to live in such a way that people see the new song.。
Not just hear the new song.。
Not just hear some words that some pastor says,。
or hear some worship that some church does in closed doors for 90 minutes on a Sunday.。
But actually when they're in the boardroom, when they're in the restaurants,。
when they're on the streets, when they're living in the apartment,。
people say, "That person is different.。
There's something in this one who is living a life that is different。
from how I'm living my life.。
Why do they seem to be so at peace when the economy is crashing?。
Why do they seem to think Hong Kong has hope。
when I don't think Hong Kong has hope?。
Why do they think that they are this and that and that。
when I know that this and this..."。
And people begin to wrestle with the reality.。
Not because they hear something, because they see something.。
And sure, the proclamation of the gospel has to come with words.。
Scripture told us that it comes with the words。
that we must preach the gospel and the words.。
But here, David marries that picture just like James does。
as James writes his letter later in the New Testament.。
He marries the proclamation with the lifestyle。
so that many would see the new song and fear the Lord and put their trust in him.。
See, when a church lives out publicly the redemption。
that Christ has done within them privately,。
when it shows the love of Jesus and not just speaks of it,。
when it lays its own life down and doesn't just tell about a God。
who has laid his life down,。
then all will see and fear and put their trust in the Lord.。
This is the why, people.。
This is the why of the church.。
People, this is the why of why God is calling us in 2025 to a year of action。
because 92% of the people in Hong Kong do not know Jesus.。
92% of the people in the city do not know Jesus.。
But he has put a new song in my mouth,。
a song of praise and declaration and invitation.。
And if I keep my mouth shut,。
if I don't live in the way that he's called me to live,。
if I don't take the principles of his love and begin to love my neighbor,。
love my enemy, love the broken,。
if I'm not doing that, then I'm just a resounding gong, a clanging cymbal,。
and I could just show up on a Sunday and raise my hands,。
but nothing is changing out there.。
And God would say, "I'm lighting up something in the new season。
that I'm doing here at the Vine,。
and it's going to be uncomfortable, it's going to be messy,。
it's going to be difficult,。
and I'm going to talk more about that in two weeks.。
Look forward to that.。
It's going to be uncomfortable."。
But that's why Jesus went to the cross,。
not so the church would be a holy huddle,。
but so that we would, with grace and love and beauty and wonder。
and creativity and amazement,。
share what it is that God has done in us.。
I was in a slimy pit,。
but now my feet are on solid ground,。
and how can I not say and live。
so that people could hear and see the beauty of the Lord?。
Can they see the new song?。
If the Vine is going to live out more courageously in a year of action,。
we have to ask ourselves,。
are they seeing the new song as much as they're hearing the new song?。
Because, listen to this, church,。
everything that happens in here is not for in here.。
It is for out there.。
That's why the church exists.。
Amen?。
Can I pray for us?。
Let's pray.。
Actually, maybe you could stand as I pray.。
I just feel led to invite you to stand,。
because we're standing before a God。
who has placed the gospel inside of us.。
If you're a Christian in this room,。
online, in the overflow,。
you're someone who's a knight,。
a child of God,。
riding out under the royal banners.。
And while we want to be sensible with how we share the gospel,。
and we've seen the ugly ways that it's happened,。
and we don't want to repeat past mistakes,。
but equally, we recognize that so often we've held it so much within us。
that we've actually not become effective at all.。
And that when people find out we're a Christian,。
they're like, "Really?"。
Rather than saying, "I knew there was something about you."。
Father, you haven't asked us to be weird.。
You haven't asked us to escape to a monastery on a hill.。
Jesus's prayer was that they would be in the world, but not of it.。
That we would live like yeast in dough.。
That we would be different, but different in the places,。
of the workplaces, and the boardrooms, and the educational spheres,。
and all the other things that are represented here.。
That we would live right in the midst of it all,。
but we would be yeast and not dough.。
And that we would declare with our mouths and with our lives。
the glory of the gospel.。
For the lost, and the hurting, and the broken of our city,。
that's what the vine needs to stand for.。
And Father, I want to pray。
that you would give this group of people courage.。
Remember, it is His song, but it's in your mouth.。
There is a unique way for you to express the gospel in your life.。
And it will look different for each one of us.。
Make your prayer this year, "Lord, show me how I can more authentically。
live out the testimony of what you've done in my life to those around me."。
And you're going to see some fruit, and you're not going to see some fruit.。
But let me lift this off you right now.。
The fruit is not your responsibility.。
You do not bring anyone into the kingdom of God.。
That's the work of the Holy Spirit.。
That's what Jesus does.。
What we do is recognize that there is a song that's been placed in our mouths.。
A hymn of praise to the glory of God.。
And that through that, many will see, and fear, and trust.。
In the Lord.。
I want to invite you just to take some time.。
Just take some time to receive what the Holy Spirit has for you this morning.。
For you, for some of you, it's courage and boldness.。
And you want to ask for that.。
For some of you, this whole idea freaks you out a lot, and that's understandable.。
And you're like, "I don't even know.。
I'm an introvert, man.。
I just want to run away.。
I don't even know what."。
Like, that's for people like Pastor Andrew and other people that seem excited about it.。
I'm not excited about it.。
That's okay.。
If that's your starting point here today, that's absolutely fine.。
I want to speak to those that perhaps feel like this is for somebody else and not for you.。
I want to just share this.。
That, remember, somebody else's song is not your new song to sing.。
And that there is a place for every single personality, every single person, every single。
culture.。
There is a unique expression of the gospel that sits within you.。
And you are to express it in the unique way that is right for you.。
Just don't keep your mouth shut.。
Lord, loosen our mouths.。
We pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says.。
