Have a seat, have a seat.。
Welcome to The Vine.。
If you're relatively new with us, my name's Andrew.。
I'm one of the pastors here, and it's so great to have you here.。
I was just sensing as you were worshiping as well,。
I wonder if anybody's just arrived in Hong Kong.。
Maybe you're new to the city.。
Maybe you've come in in the last week or two or month,。
and you're settling into Hong Kong.。
It's totally new for you.。
Maybe you have your family.。
Maybe you're on your own.。
Maybe work's brought you here, or for some reason you're in the city.。
If that's you, would you just put your hand up?。
You're new to Hong Kong.。
Welcome, welcome, welcome, welcome, welcome.。
In the upper house, put your hand up if you're new.。
All right, awesome.。
Here's what I want to do.。
I want to just take a moment.。
If you're new to Hong Kong, I just want to say this.。
There's amazing great churches in our city, lots of great churches in our city.。
If you're new, we encourage you to get out there and experience。
and to see some of the churches in our city.。
But every single church in here in Hong Kong would say the same thing.。
You are not in Hong Kong by mistake.。
I'm biased because I've lived here for 40 years.。
But God is doing something in this city I think that is unprecedented.。
And you're a Christian, you're a believer, and you've been brought to this city.。
And I believe the Lord is about to light a fire in you.。
I believe that you came here for work, and work is awesome,。
and there's lots going on in your work, and that's great.。
But I believe that you're in this city for something far greater。
than what you're doing Monday to Friday.。
I believe that you're here because the Lord is actually bringing the sheep,。
the community that he needs in his city for this time.。
And so you bring gifts, you bring heart, you bring life,。
you bring experience that the church of Hong Kong desperately needs in this season.。
You are not here by mistake, amen?。
So if you're new here, I want to do a brave thing.。
Could you just stand if you're new to Hong Kong?。
You just put your hand up. I'd love you just to stand.。
Could you stand with me? Come on. Upper house, lower house.。
Come on, stand.。
Yes!。
All right.。
Everybody else, everybody else,。
could you just stretch out your hands towards these people?。
Can we pray for them? Let's just pray.。
Father, we want to pray right now. Lord, we welcome these guys to Hong Kong.。
Hong Kong is not necessarily an easy place to fit into sometimes.。
Lord, it's crazy. There are lots of things happening.。
Crazy work hours. It's an expensive place to live.。
Lord, we want to pray first of all for each of these people,。
that they would just logistically, relationally, emotionally,。
that they would adapt to Hong Kong,。
that you would enable them to find their feet quickly.。
So Lord, we thank you that you've sent them.。
And Father, you have sent them to this city.。
These are the sent ones in this season.。
And so Father, we recognize that they bring and they carry with them gifts,。
an anointing and heart that Hong Kong needs,。
that this church community needs, that our city needs.。
And we want to pray now that you would release a fresh anointing over these ones.。
Lord, you have brought them into this city, this fragrant harbor for this season.。
And Lord, I want to pray that your spirit, Lord, would just enable them.。
Where they're homesick, that you would meet them。
and that you would speak life into them.。
Lord, where they're beginning to get settled,。
that you would enable them to put roots down.。
And Lord, I want to release a new season.。
I see oil being poured out upon you.。
I want to pray that the oil of Jesus for this season,。
the anointing that he has for you, would fall upon you。
and that you would be able to work in the workplace, build relationships,。
do the things that you do, get connected to community,。
get connected to a church in a way that will flourish you and flourish Hong Kong.。
We are so glad that you are here.。
And we pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, "Amen."。
Welcome, everyone. Welcome.。
By the way, by the way, we don't do that every week.。
So that was special for you.。
I'm excited. I'm so grateful for Pastor Ellison。
and just this summer series that we've been in, the book of James.。
And then for Phil and for Ellison that have taught and preached in this series so far to this point.。
Phil brought a great message on that typhoon Sunday.。
He felt so bad for Phil that he couldn't be here to deliver it in person.。
But a great message on the idea of pure religion.。
What does pure religion look like?。
And really that's the heart.。
That's the thesis for James throughout this whole letter is,。
how do we understand what it is to be purified in the relationship that we have with our Father through Jesus?。
And so that was week one.。
Week two, Ellison brought a powerful word around faith and deeds last week.。
And what does it mean to wrestle with the idea that we don't just profess a belief,。
but that actually changes and impacts the way in which we live.。
And I want to kind of build on that a little bit as we move into the third chapter of James here this morning.。
And we look at a topic that I think is very central to James' heart for the people that he's writing to.。
Remember, he's writing to a community of people that are facing persecution,。
facing hostility for their faith and their environment, facing division amongst themselves,。
trying to settle in to what it means to be community together.。
And in the third chapter, the heart of his letter, in chapters one and two, James has been pretty direct.。
It's almost been like he's been a little bit strong.。
He's been like a little bit of a tell you off for all the things.。
But by the time he gets to chapter three, this pastoral heart for James comes out.。
And when I read James and I get into the flow of his arguments and then I come into chapter three,。
it almost sounds like James is like kind of just hushing down a little bit.。
Like he's wanting his community just to take a moment, to take a breath.。
And he starts, we'll see this in a moment, but he starts a chapter and he says,。
"I want to talk to you now about something that we all struggle with."。
It's like this beautiful pastoral moment.。
He's kind of like slapped them around a bit, chapters one and two.。
But in the third chapter, he's like, "I want to just express my heart for you guys."。
He says, "I struggle with this. You struggle. We all struggle with this thing."。
And in the chapter, he speaks about the power of words.。
He speaks about what comes out of our mouths.。
He speaks about the way in which we use our tongue, our language, and our words.。
And I think it's important to James because I think James sees the much bigger picture.。
I think he sees the reality of what God has done in creating human beings to be able to communicate.。
I don't know if you've thought about it this way, but our words and our language and our communication,。
it's the secret ingredients that aligns ourselves to either be able to draw closer to one another。
or actually to push each other apart.。
I don't know if you've thought about it that way, but essentially your words,。
your ability to communicate is the process by which you as a human being can do the one thing。
that every human being desires for the most, and that is intimacy.。
We are literally created for relationship, created for intimacy.。
And it is our communication, the way in which we speak, that brings that into our lives.。
So in those seasons where we speak well and we speak life and we offer words of encouragement and love。
and we connect well with people, we draw close and we are more intimate with the people around us.。
But likewise, in those moments of life where we argue, where we slander, we gossip,。
we find like stuff's not going down well and we communicate in ways that are rough or harsh,。
we find ourselves at enmity with the people around us, pushing away from the people around us.。
The actual word communication has an etymology that just basically means the roots within it.。
And communication, the etymology of that is community.。
And the etymology of community is communion.。
Communion, this idea of drawing close and being intimate,。
we just shared in what we call within the church world the communion table,。
the place through the bread and the cup where we join in deeper relationship and intimacy。
with the forgiveness of Christ and the power of His resurrection.。
So communion forms out of community which is created by our communication.。
So if we want greater communion with God and with one another, our communication is important.。
When that goes wrong, community breaks.。
And when community breaks, it is a struggle to find communion.。
So when you think about the reality that God has literally created you for communion, for intimacy,。
then your communication is central.。
In other words, words really matter.。
Like they really matter.。
Not just because God wants you to be a nice person.。
In fact, when you look at this chapter that we're going to unpack together today,。
the temptation is to think really what James is just saying is, you know, change your behavior a little bit.。
Like just try to say some nicer things.。
But that's not at all what James is interested in.。
He's not interested in some sort of behavior modification.。
What James is interested in is helping all of us to understand the breadth and the beauty。
of what God has done in this world and how that impacts us and our words that we speak。
either align ourselves to the beauty and the wonder of God's kingdom or they dramatically take us away.。
And you can sense this pastoral heart of James leaning out to his church, quietening his voice。
and saying, "We're in this together, but I wonder whether we could together come truly, fully alive."。
So what I want to do with you here this morning is take you on a bit of that journey through what James is teaching.。
My prayer is that each one of us by the end would feel like there is a way for us to become more alive,。
more the way that he has created us to be.。
And to recognize that it's not about trying to say some nicer things,。
but it's about understanding that the way in which we've been created to be。
means that the words out of my mouth can bring life.。
So let me show you this from James chapter 3. We're going to start in verse 2.。
He actually speaks about words in three of his chapters because that's how important it is to him.。
But let me just start chapter 3, verse 2. This is this. He says, "We all stumble in many ways."。
Isn't that a beautiful pastoral way to start? Like he's not starting like,。
"I've got three things I want to beat you around the head on today."。
He starts by saying, "I'm in this boat with you. We're in this boat together.。
We all stumble in so many ways."。
He says, "If any person is never at fault in what they say,。
they are a perfect person able to keep their whole body in check."。
He's like, "Man, if you could get yourself, if you could be perfect in this, this is an amazing thing.。
But here's the thing we all stumble with."。
See, when we put bits into the mouths of horses to make them obey us, we can turn the whole animal.。
Or take ships as an example. Although they are so large and driven by strong winds,。
they are steered by a very small rudder whichever way the pilot wants it to go.。
Likewise, the tongue. It is a small part of the body, but it makes great boasts.。
Consider what a great forest is set on fire by such a small spark.。
The tongue also is a fire, a weld of evil among the parts of the body.。
It disrupts the whole person, sets the whole course of their life on fire,。
and is itself set on fire by hell.。
All kinds of animals, birds, reptiles, creatures of the sea are being tamed and have been tamed by people,。
but no person can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil full of deadly poison.。
And he says this, this is what we do.。
"With the tongue we praise our Lord and Father, and with it we curse people who have been made in God's likeness.。
Out of the same mouth come praise and cursing. My brothers and sisters, this should not be.。
Can both fresh water and salt water flow from the same spring?。
My brothers and sisters, can a fig tree bear olives? Can a grapevine bear figs?。
Neither can a salt spring produce fresh water."。
It's really beautiful here what James is trying to lean into his church.。
He's like, "Don't you understand that there's this reality that we all stumble with,。
and we all struggle with these words?" And he gives us three pictures to help us to see this.。
He talks about the bit that's placed in a horse's mouth.。
He talks about a rudder that's on a ship and how it steers.。
But the one I want to dig into a little bit is the third image he gives us,。
and it's of a spark that brings a fire to a whole forest.。
And he talks about how this tongue is like a fire that is set on fire.。
And then he goes all the way to the end of that passage, and he says,。
"It's like it's burning, like the burning of hell."。
And he uses this word that we translate into the English as hell.。
And when we, in our time, read that word, we immediately think of the opposite of heaven.。
We think that James is literally saying that the tongue can bring us into a place of hell,。
as in this like eternal damnation away from heaven.。
But actually, James is not using the word hell here. That's the word we translate.。
He's actually naming a place that the Greek word here is the word Gehenna.。
And Gehenna became the theme of which the New Testament begins to speak of the idea of hell.。
But in this moment, James is speaking about a place.。
He's naming a place that the people he's writing to would know about quite well.。
Gehenna was about 50 miles south-southwest of Jerusalem.。
And throughout the whole history of Israel in their land, it was a significant place.。
In the Old Testament times, there were tribes that lived in the area of Gehenna.。
Gehenna, interestingly, was a forest.。
So notice in this part, he says, "A small spark that sets fire to a whole forest."。
Gehenna was a forest area.。
Now, what happened in the Old Testament times is that the tribes that lived there worshipped a god called Malak.。
And Malak, the way they worshipped him, and this is horrible, trigger warning, but the reality,。
they worshipped him through the sacrifice of children.。
And the way they would do that is they would build a fire, a bonfire,。
and then the child that was to be sacrificed was placed on the bonfire and was literally burned to death.。
This was the worship to this Malak that was happening in that place.。
Now, by the time James is writing, Gehenna has long stopped that practice.。
But because of that, that land was always seen as cursed.。
It was a place of great fire before where the worst of humanity took place.。
The evils. If you could think about it, what's the worst thing that humanity could do?。
Somebody taking their child and burning them in this fire.。
Well, this is what Gehenna represented.。
Now, in James' time, they're not doing that anymore, but here's what happened.。
All of the rubbish, all of the stuff from Jerusalem that was rubbish, was sent down to Gehenna and was burnt there.。
So fires within this forest were still happening, and the stench of that on the wrong day,。
of the windmills blowing the wrong way, could still reach into Jerusalem.。
It was a place that represented the stench of the worst of humanity. Does that make sense?。
Now, follow James' argument here.。
He's talking about the tongue, and he's comparing the tongue in the mouth。
to the horrors of the reality of what happened in the past in Gehenna.。
And he says, literally like this, "You've got to understand that this is what the tongue can do.。
It can create a reality in which the worst of human choices become true."。
Are you following?。
This is the seriousness of what James is trying to talk to the church about.。
Your tongue can, if not controlled, be like Gehenna.。
It can actually create a situation where the worst of human choices become a reality.。
So for James, right up front, our tongue, what we speak, and the reality of something created come together.。
Are you following this?。
Now, it's important that you see this link, because ultimately what James is trying to do。
is kind of bring the church to a much bigger picture of what's happening in Scripture。
around this idea of speaking and creating.。
In fact, in verse 11, he speaks about the source.。
He says, "Can fresh water and salt water come together and be in the same thing?。
Can you have two sources creating two different things?"。
He's like, "No, no, no, no. There's only one source."。
So to understand really what James is trying to teach about this fact that our tongue can create realities。
that would express the worst of what humanity can do, you have to take him all the way back to the source.。
And I want to show you some things here from the source of our words.。
And of course, to do that, you have to go all the way back to the right to the beginning of the biblical story.。
Let me read you just the first three verses of Genesis.。
Genesis 1, verses 1 to 3.。
"In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.。
Now the earth was formless and empty, and darkness was over the surface of the deep,。
and the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters."。
Verse 3, "And God said, 'Let there be light.' And there was light."。
This is one of the most wonderful moments.。
I wonder if you've ever asked yourself, "Why does God use words to create?"。
Why does it specifically say here that God said He spoke, the Hebrew word here meaning literally out loud,。
He spoke out loud, "Let there be light."。
And there was light.。
Think about this.。
There was no one around right now in creation to hear it.。
Come on, church.。
Like no one had been created yet.。
There were no animals, no things, no people.。
That all comes later.。
No one is there to hear it.。
So why didn't He think creation into being?。
Like what was the point?。
What was the purpose of Him speaking?。
God is trying to show us that there is a reality through the way in which He's created the words.。
And so He stands over creation, and He speaks to this formless void, and He brings it into creation.。
The Hebrew word that is found in the Old Testament that we translate to word in English is "deba."。
And "deba" literally in the Hebrew can mean a word or it can mean a thing.。
And those two things seem quite different.。
Like is it a word or is it a thing, like a real thing?。
Well, the reason why it can mean both is because in the Hebrew concept of the idea of a word, words have material reality to them.。
This is different for us and how we think about it these days.。
Because when we think about words, we just think about things that are spoken out of somebody's mouth or something written on a page.。
The Hebrews didn't think of it that way.。
Because God created with His word, the way they saw it is that God "debarred" creation.。
Words, in other words, have material reality to them.。
They can literally create something.。
And this idea of the Hebrew concept of "deba" is found throughout our scriptures.。
Have you ever heard someone say, "Man, when they talked, their words had weight."。
That's the Hebrew idea of the concept of "deba."。
When I was 15 years old, I decided to try out for the local play that was happening in my school.。
I'd never done any drama before.。
I'd never thought about doing drama, but I needed to get a few extra things on my resume.。
So I decided I was going to be in the drama.。
So I went along for the audition.。
The drama teacher, who was like, "Why are you here?"。
And I'm like, "Hi."。
And he's like, "Okay, well here's what you need to do."。
And he said, "I'm going to put a mirror on the front of the stage.。
And then you're going to get up, and I want you to mime for five minutes the mirror and your interaction with the mirror."。
So I was like, "Okay."。
So I got up on stage, and there was the mirror.。
And I went up, and I started interacting with the mirror, and I did all these things.。
And I tried my best. It probably wasn't the greatest thing that had ever happened.。
But as I put down the mirror at the end of the five minutes, I just stood there, and he didn't say anything.。
He just sort of stared at me for a while.。
And I was a little bit worried to begin with.。
He was like just staring me down.。
And then he said these words.。
He said, "What you just did made me come alive."。
I wonder if you can imagine for a 15-year-old kid, for somebody who's in authority, to say something like that over them.。
And I remember in that moment thinking to myself, "That's what I want to do for the rest of my life."。
Not drama, because I'm not great at drama, but I want to help people come alive.。
That man didn't know it, but he dabbared on me in that moment.。
A word out of his mouth gave this 15-year-old a calling for the rest of his life.。
And ever since that day, I have been dedicating my life to helping people come alive.。
This is the Hebrew concept of dabbar.。
Our words have weight and material reality to them.。
Now notice what happens next as God creates humanity.。
Then God said, "Let us make humanity in our image, in our likeness.。
Let them rule over the fish of the sea, the birds of the air, over the livestock, over all the earth, over all the ground, and the creatures among them on the ground."。
So God created humanity in his own image.。
In the image of God, he created him.。
Male and female, he created them.。
Notice, "God blessed them and said to them, 'Be fruitful and increase in number. Fill the earth and subdue it.'"。
And then as we get down to verse 31, it says, "God saw all that he had made by speaking, and it was very good."。
I want you to see something really important here, because in God's creation of humanity,。
God shows us the process by which his words are created, by which he dabbars in this world.。
Notice, God speaks, he creates, he then blesses, and then finally he pronounces good.。
And you'll see that rhythm throughout all seven days of creation,。
but it's right there at the moment when God creates humanity.。
He speaks, he creates, he blesses, and he pronounces good.。
Now, here's what happens next.。
God has created humanity, and he says these words.。
He says, "You are my image on earth,"。
which means a lot of different things, but in this case, it means that you are able also to image, to be, and partner with me.。
Remember, he says to humanity, "Go into the world, bring it to flourishing,。
help the world to grow and to flourish, subdue it and bring it to life."。
So here's humanity doing that.。
Now, guess what happens first?。
Here's the first way God shows Adam and Eve to do that.。
He takes Adam, and he says to Adam, "I want you to name the animals."。
Have you ever wondered why God asked Adam to name the animals?。
It's because God is saying, "The first thing I want humanity to do is debar."。
Are you following this?。
"I want you to speak the name," name in the Hebrew being character,。
"I want you to describe, I want you to tell the animals who they are."。
That's essentially what he's asking Adam to do.。
"Tell the animals who they are."。
So there's Adam, and this weird creature comes before him,。
and he looks at the creature, and he sees the tail, and he sees the big mane of hair,。
and he goes, "Lion."。
Are you with me?。
Notice, Adam does not think lion.。
Adam speaks the word.。
He names the animal.。
Lion, giraffe, alligator, whatever it was, whatever came before him,。
whatever the Lord brought to him, he spoke out.。
And in speaking out, he debarred on that animal, its character, its nature, its identity, what it is.。
He gave it its name.。
God is creating a structure where he creates, he speaks, he creates, he blesses,。
and everything is declared good.。
We then get to speak.。
We get to create.。
We get to bless.。
And we get to bring the world into a flourishing that is very good.。
Are you following this?。
But then, thousands of years later, James writes to the church, and he says, "It's all hell."。
Like it's all burning.。
Like what's coming out of our mouths is setting everything on fire, and not in a good way.。
So the question we should have is, "What happened?"。
Because if it was created to be a certain way, and then James is saying, "It's not like that anymore.。
What in the world happened?"。
Well, notice what it says in Genesis 3, starting in verse 1.。
Is this helpful so far?。
I'll get back to James in a moment, trust me.。
But we flow together through what the Scriptures are saying.。
Notice what it says in Genesis 3, verse 1.。
"Now the serpent," the snake, this is representative, this is enemy, this was Satan.。
"Now Satan was more crafty than any of the wild animals that the Lord had made.。
He said to the woman Eve," he said,。
"Did God really say you must not eat from any tree in the garden?"。
I want you to see something very important that happens here that, again, we often miss over.。
First of all, Satan, as he's thinking about, "How do I convince humanity to be changed?"。
He doesn't try to convince their thoughts.。
He doesn't try to influence their emotions.。
Here's how Satan does it.。
He speaks.。
So he speaks over Eve.。
"The snake in the tree opens its mouth and speaks words."。
And he says this.。
Notice what he says.。
"Did God really say?"。
So the first thing that the enemy does is try to attack the structure of God speaking,。
God creating, God blessing, God bringing good.。
"Did God really say all of this stuff?"。
And suddenly, here's Eve and Adam, and they're beginning to get confused.。
They're beginning to go, "Hang on a sec, now, what do we believe?"。
Because there's a new voice in the world.。
Are you seeing this?。
There's a new debar that is taking place.。
Satan is speaking and trying to now get Adam and Eve to believe and to think in a different way.。
And now Adam and Eve are caught between these two narratives that are at play.。
Will they align themselves to the wonder of the Lord and the debar of Him,。
or will they now align themselves to the trickery and the destruction of the enemy?。
And here's what they do.。
In choosing the fruit from that tree, in deciding to take on that,。
and to believe and adhere to Satan,。
they change from adhering to one way of being and speaking to now aligning with another.。
And here's what Satan does.。
Satan speaks, Satan destroys, Satan curses, Satan pronounces death.。
So see these two things side by side right here.。
And all of this is sort of saying, all of this is driven by what comes out of the mouth.。
And here's the thing, which of these two are we going to align our lives with?。
This is why for James, this is not about some behavior modification.。
It's not like, "Hey, just try to be a nicer person in the world."。
Like this is James saying, "Don't you understand what you've been created for,。
how the world is structured, and you are either one of these things or you're the other."。
This is very important.。
James is essentially saying to the church, "There are no neutral words."。
Come on, church.。
Your words out of your mouth, they're either aligning yourself to what God is doing。
and brings blessing and life, or your words are aligning to the work of the enemy,。
and you're bringing death and destruction.。
There's no middle ground.。
There's no Genesis 3b.。
It's Genesis 1, 2, and 3, and then we're on a journey for redemption through Jesus Christ.。
There's a red pill and a blue pill.。
There's no other pill.。
That's a matrix reference for any of you who are my age.。
There's no neutral words James wants his church to know.。
You're either this or you're that, and this, he says, is the issue.。
And notice what he says at the start.。
"We all struggle with this."。
So the question is, how do we align more to that side than that side?。
Well, when the disciple John is sitting down to write his version of the gospel,。
and he thinks, "How do I start to help people to understand who Jesus is?"。
Notice the words he says, John 1, verse 3.。
"In the beginning was the word."。
There it is. Isn't that interesting?。
So in the beginning, he's saying, "was the deba."。
Now the word he's using here, it's not the Hebrew word, of course, because he's writing in Greek.。
This is the word logos, but it links to that deba idea in the Hebrew.。
"And the word was with God, and the word was God, and he was with God in the beginning.。
Through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made that has been made."。
And then if you jump down to verse 14, it says, "The word became flesh and made its dwelling amongst us."。
So there's this beautiful thing.。
Here's John trying to describe Jesus.。
He's like, "You've got to understand that Jesus is the culmination of what every deba of God looks like."。
Like if you were to take a human being,。
one who was able to live every word and promise of God,。
and everything that came out of his mouth was a blessing and not a curse,。
it would be Jesus.。
He is the word of God.。
The fullness of creation is within him.。
He was the one who was there, speaking at the beginning, creating it all in the first place.。
And literally, John will go on to say this,。
"Through his death, life, and resurrection, you yourself can become a new creation.。
You yourself can be made new."。
There is great hope in that, but you have to understand the starting point.。
You want to understand who Jesus is? He's the deba of God.。
God's word made flesh.。
That's deba, materiality.。
God speaks. Jesus is.。
And in the fullness of that, it's quite interesting, because I love this phrase,。
"And the word became flesh."。
Now, follow with this.。
There's only ever one time where the fullness of the word of God became flesh, and that's Jesus.。
But I think words become flesh all the time.。
I bet every single person in here can probably testify to a moment where someone said something over you,。
spoke a word to you, maybe in a season in your life in the past,。
maybe when you were young as a child, maybe it's even somebody in the office recently.。
Someone said something to you, and it's deeply disrupted you, and it's deeply hurt,。
and that word begins to take on flesh, and that flesh becomes you.。
Maybe someone said to you, "You're not good enough. You're not good enough."。
Maybe your parents said that to you when you were a kid,。
or maybe a trusted authority figure, teacher, or a pastor, or a mentor said those words over you.。
And here's what happened when they said those words to you.。
You began to internalize the reality that nothing you could do could ever be good enough,。
that no matter how many grades, how much effort, your parents never seemed to be satisfied,。
never seemed to be pleased with you, and you kind of found yourself thinking,。
"Well, I'm never going to be good enough at all."。
And because that's been internalized, years later, you're still living a life。
that when you're in relationships with the people around you,。
you're not expecting that relationship to go well.。
You're not expecting them to accept you, love you, embrace you,。
because you are thinking, "I'm never going to be enough for my wife, for my husband,。
for my boss, for my colleague, for my friends at church. I'm never enough."。
And the word that was spoken has become flesh, and that flesh is now you.。
Are you with me?。
Or maybe somebody said over you, "You're never going to amount to anything."。
And they immediately cast your future into doubt.。
So then every time a job comes up, and you're like, "Man, should I apply for that?"。
You're thinking, "Hang on a sec. I'm never going to amount to anything."。
And you're suddenly feeling imposter syndrome.。
"Oh, this is not for me. Somebody else is better at this than I am."。
And it's stopping you from actually taking the risk to step into the one thing that God has created you for,。
but you're staying away from it, because somebody at some point told you,。
"You're never going to amount to anything."。
And now you feel like an imposter all the time, no matter what it is that you try to do.。
The word became flesh, and that flesh became you.。
The reality is we do this to one another, don't we?。
We speak slander and gossip and harsh words.。
We use our tongue in such destructive ways.。
We've been hurt, and here's the reality. Hurt people hurt people.。
And because we've been hurt, and because somebody said that to us,。
we've found ourselves saying that to somebody else.。
And it seems that there's this cycle going on, and James writes to the church,。
and he says, "It's like the fire of Gehenna is coming out of our mouths."。
When we were created for communion and intimacy, we're just destroying everything.。
Have a look at some of these other words that get spoken over us.。
Perhaps some of these resonate with you and your journey.。
And then James, in the moment of all of this, he says perhaps the strongest thing he says in this part.。
Verse 9 and 12, he says, "With the tongue we praise our Lord and Father,。
and then with it we curse people who have been made in God's likeness.。
Out of the same mouth comes praise and cursing.。
My brothers and sisters, this should not be.。
Can both fresh water and salt water flow from the same spring?。
My brothers and sisters, can a fig tree bear olives?。
A grapevine bear figs?。
And can salt spring produce fresh water?"。
James says, "Look, we have to understand.。
We can see the power of the destructive words of the enemy,。
and we all have felt and experienced those words spoken over us."。
But James is like, "Here's the reality. We all struggle with this.。
We do both ourselves.。
We come in, and we worship Him, and we praise Him, and we lift our hands up,。
and we say, 'Oh, yes, Lord. Everything I am submitted to You.'"。
And then on Monday, we start to slander and gossip and speak down,。
and we start to criticize and judge, and then we come back on Sunday,。
and we praise Jesus again.。
And James is saying, "Hang on a second.。
Can't you realize that that God process that leads to goodness。
and that satanic evil process that leads to death,。
don't you realize that both of these are coming out of your mouth?"。
And that's why he then challenges the church, and he says,。
"We all struggle with this, so the thing we have to do is check the source."。
Because he says, "Can fresh and salt come out of the same source?"。
They cannot. So the issue here is not behavior modification.。
How do I say nice to things? The issue here, what is going on in my heart?。
Because what's in here is obviously impacting what's coming out of here.。
Jesus, in Luke 6, verse 45, He says,。
"Out of the overflow of the heart, the mouth speaks."。
So when James is saying, "We have to get back to the source,"。
he's basically saying, "Look at your heart," but remember, he's doing it pastorally.。
He's like, "Look at your heart.。
What is going inside of your heart that's causing stuff to be happening?"。
And it's almost like he's saying, "Look, we've got to invite the Holy Spirit。
to constantly be examining our heart, because if it's true。
that our words can bring life or death in us or through us,。
then we have to constantly invite the Holy Spirit to be in our hearts,。
because the health of my heart will determine the grace of my words."。
You following? The health of my heart will determine the grace of my words.。
So the question I should be asking myself is,。
"What's really going on in my heart?"。
I want to say two things predominantly go on in our hearts。
that cause our words to align more with the evil side than with God's side.。
Sin and hurt.。
And those two things are constantly grappling in our heart.。
Sin is such a reality for us all.。
Jesus was one that lived a certain life that shows us a different way.。
1 Peter 2.22, Peter writes this beautiful thing.。
Let me read this to you in 1 Peter 2.22.。
He says, speaking of Jesus, "He committed no sin, so no deceit was found in him."。
Isn't that beautiful? "No deceit was found in his mouth," Peter said,。
because he committed no sin.。
So Peter makes this connection between the heart and the mouth.。
He makes the connection with Jesus and says he's the only one.。
Remember James at the beginning of the passage,。
"If you were a perfect person, and good things always came out of your mouth,。
but none of us are perfect."。
So James is like, "None of us are Jesus."。
So we all struggle with this, but here's the reality.。
Sin is one of the reasons why we struggle with this,。
because Jesus had no sin, therefore there was no deceit,。
no slander, no gossip, no malice, no brokenness coming out of his mouth.。
When we deal with sin in the source, we begin to find our language change.。
But the reality is so many of us try to change the language and ignore the heart.。
Come on, church.。
We try to change what we're saying,。
thinking that that's the thing that James is calling us to.。
James is like, "I'm not asking you to change what you say.。
I'm asking you to change your heart, and when you change your heart,。
look at what you're about to say."。
Some of you here, you're spending a lot of time trying to get better at what you say。
without spending any time asking the question,。
"Why am I saying the things that I'm saying in the first place?"。
That's the heart.。
Like, "What really is going on in my heart?"。
And so during worship, God's convicting me,。
"Andrew, your anchor's too short."。
A lot of you have submitted to me, but there's still bits of you that are not submitted to me.。
You need to deal with that stuff.。
The health of my heart will determine the grace of my words.。
It'll be the same for you too.。
I don't know about you, but I want to align to the right side.。
So that means I need to deal with the sin.。
God's given us this grace of forgiveness and repentance.。
He's given us the ability to let go of the things that darken our hearts.。
And I want to encourage you, if you're finding yourself aligning more with that evil side,。
even though you know you don't want to, but you find yourself doing it,。
the way you speak to your spouse, the way you speak to your children,。
the way you speak to your colleagues, you know it's not right.。
The question I think the Lord would ask you to is,。
"Just check your heart. What's going on?。
Is there some stuff there that may need to be brought to Him。
in repentance and His grace to forgive you?"。
So that's sin.。
Let me finish on hurt.。
Because I said earlier, hurting people hurt people.。
And while sin is one of the things that causes the bad stuff to come out of our mouths,。
hurt perhaps even more causes us to not be the people that we were created to be.。
Some of you here have been deeply hurt.。
Deeply hurt by words spoken of you.。
Some of it, it's generational.。
Something was spoken over you as a child, and now that you're a parent,。
you're finding yourself speaking the same thing over your child.。
And you know that that's not right, and you feel the shame of it.。
But the reality is you haven't been able to break that cycle.。
Many of us here probably have struggled with the reality that we've been hurt by something somebody said,。
and it's become flesh, and that flesh is now us,。
and it's the way we think about ourselves now.。
And I want you to know that there are two things that will set you free from hurt。
when you think about it in terms of words.。
And if you're feeling that here, these two things are the most important for you in this message.。
Here's the first thing.。
We need to re-hear the word that God says to us。
so that we're not hearing the word that the enemy says.。
Remember, the enemy comes to Adam and Eve and tries to get them to doubt God's word.。
When we're walking in hurt and finding hurt coming out of our mouths,。
it's because we're doubting the way that we were truly created to be.。
We need to realign the ears of our hearts to hear again what God says to us.。
We need to allow him to debar through the scriptures, through our worship,。
through our community together.。
We need to hear the voice of God say the opposite thing from what the voice of the enemy said.。
So when somebody said to me before that I am not good enough,。
I hear from Jesus, "You are my son and my daughter whom I love, and with you I am well pleased."。
When the enemy has said, "You are never going to amount to anything,"。
I'm hearing from the Lord, "I have put the same spirit that raised Jesus from the dead in you,。
and I've put my passion and my mission in you, and I am setting you free."。
When somebody has told me, "You're ugly," I'm hearing from the Lord,。
"I have fearfully and wonderfully made you, and you are unique.。
There is no one in all of creation that carries the image of God just like you."。
Where the enemy has said that I am a person of shame,。
I hear from Jesus, "You are the righteousness of Christ."。
Come on, church.。
So we have to hear what the Lord is saying to us,。
and believe His word over the words that have been spoken,。
either by people with bad intention, or even by people with good intention,。
that still hurt us. Are you with me?。
But there's a second piece, and I think this piece is actually even more important.。
You see, I think it's not just about hearing what God says to us.。
It's not just about hearing what's in His mouth directed towards us.。
It's also now also about what is in our mouths about us.。
You see, if the issue is this hurt that I'm carrying in my spirit,。
and if that hurt has made flesh in me,。
and I've begun to think of my identity based around that thing,。
then here's the thing. The way that I break that reality of that identity,。
yes, it's hearing what God says to me,。
but it's also now prophetically declaring with my own tongue。
that I am not what that word said that I was.。
That I now also can take a stand like Adam standing before the animals。
and saying lion and alligator and giraffe.。
I get to stand before myself and say, "I'm a son of God."。
Like I want to hear God say it, but I need to confess it with my tongue.。
I need to speak out with my mouth because that's going to change something within me.。
So I declare lion. I declare son of God.。
I declare righteousness of Christ.。
I declare that the same spirit in me is the spirit that raised Jesus from the dead.。
And I say it. It's my confession.。
And I create worlds as I speak out with my tongue.。
Not just the power of positive thinking.。
I'm not saying, "Be a better person, Andrew."。
I'm declaring God's word through my word.。
Are you with me?。
This is not some kind of hippie thing that we're talking about.。
This is like I'm taking the promises of God that I'm hearing,。
but then I'm not just hearing them. I'm actually declaring them.。
I'm not just receiving them. I'm speaking them.。
I'm not just finding them in my life.。
I'm speaking them into my life, into the people around me.。
I'm a mouthpiece of the word, the debar of God.。
And in that debarring myself, something profound in the healing of my heart takes place.。
I break the bond.。
Remember in Matthew 18. I love this.。
I'm not going long. Stay with me for a second.。
This is okay? I'm very excited right now.。
I'm sweating like a pig.。
You know in Matthew 18 when Jesus says,。
He says, "What you bind on earth will be bound in heaven.。
What you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven."。
What He's saying is, "If you put your life in my hands, I will put my kingdom in your mouth."。
So what you say will have an impact.。
What you do will have an impact like Ellison was talking about last week.。
So we align ourselves to the God who speaks, creates, blesses, and is good.。
And in doing that with our own tongue and mouth, we bind and we loose.。
So what was bound in me by those people who spoke over me,。
I now loose through the word of God in my life.。
This is why Isaiah, when he's standing there in Isaiah chapter 6,。
and God calls, "Hey, who am I going to send?"。
And Isaiah goes, "Me."。
What does God do?。
The first thing God does, takes a coal.。
And what does He do?。
Touches his mind?。
Nope.。
Touches his heart?。
Nope.。
Touches his mouth.。
He's like, "You're going to go and be my mouthpiece."。
What does the New Testament say about you?。
You are a sent one.。
So we go now with the need for the anointing of our mouths to be able to declare,。
not just hear the words of God, but to declare, to speak the words of God,。
to break the bonds that have happened in our hearts, and to truly come alive.。
"Oh, struggle with this," says James.。
But there is freedom.。
Amen?。
Amen.。
Would you stand with me?。
I would love to pray for you.。
And here's how we're going to pray.。
On the screen, I'm going to put up a whole bunch of things that are declarations。
that I've designed, and your issue may not be on there,。
but this is a catalyst, maybe, to thinking about what the declaration might be。
for the hurt or the need or the brokenness or the sin that is in you.。
But you're in this room, and anxiety has been a thing for you,。
and you've defined yourself that way, and you're often saying,。
"I'm an anxious person. I'm this."。
Your declaration might be, "I'm not a slave to fear."。
Or maybe your declaration is, "I am good enough, and I've had people tell me other things,。
but here's what I declare. I know God sees that in me,。
and here's my declaration. I am good enough. His grace is sufficient.。
I have been forgiven. He will always be with me. I have a sound mind.。
Everybody around me tells me that I'm going crazy. I've got a sound mind."。
So as we begin to declare the promises of God with our own tongue,。
we set ourselves free.。
So here's what I want you to do.。
I'm not going to have you do this crazy out loud, and that would be weird,。
but I just want you to take a moment to look on the screen and say,。
"You know what? I'm aligning to one of these."。
And again, maybe yours is not on the screen, but you know what it is.。
And you're saying, "That's my declaration this week.。
That's the thing that needs to be on my tongue this week.。
That's what I need to say to my spirit. That's what I need to say to my family.。
That's what I need to say to my wife or spouse.。
That's what I need to say to my children.。
I need to begin to speak words of life where I've been speaking deaf."。
And the starting point is to say, "I am not a slave to fear."。
Or whatever it might be for you.。
Father, I want to pray that you would release these people in this room。
to a greater sense of healing from sin.。
For those in this room that need to deal with some sin in their lives。
because of the words that are coming out of their mouths,。
Lord, I want to pray for that conviction of your spirit in them in Jesus' name.。
Lord, I pray for those of us who have been hurt deeply.。
And because of that hurt, we recognize that some of the things that come out of our mouths。
are more aligned with the enemy's words than they are with the Lord's words.。
Father, would you then speak to me really loudly about who you see me to be?。
And then would I in faith declare prophetically out of my own mouth。
the very person that you've created in me?。
What is bound on earth is bound in heaven.。
What is loose on earth is loose in heaven.。
I pray you would loose healing in the name of Jesus, Lord, over the people in this room.。
We pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone say, "Amen."。
Hey, let's worship together.。
Maybe you can do that.。
You can take a moment.。
And in a moment, we're going to have a time for prayer.。
And if you would like to receive prayer, we'll make space for you to do that。
before we close our service.。
