[sighs]。
And so every,。
this is, you know what I'm saying,。
every service is so different.。
Like, I was up here for the 9/15。
and it was a very different way of,。
I don't know, just what it felt, but this,。
like I love that God is not like a carbon copy God.。
Like, he poured out his presence at the 9/15。
and we experienced him,。
but what we just experienced now。
was a fresh sense of his presence,。
specifically for those of you who are in the room。
and those who are watching online.。
So I wanna echo what Susannah just said.。
You might be holding that last piece of the puzzle.。
That's your free will,。
but God has a purpose for you physically being here right now.。
So don't miss that.。
Whatever's on your mind, whatever's on your heart,。
you don't have to ignore it,。
but press pause for a minute。
because I genuinely believe。
that God has gathered us here together today。
to speak to us.。
I believe he wants to set us free in our hearts,。
in our spirits.。
He wants to address things。
that have been sitting inside of you for a long time.。
He wants to bring hope.。
He wants to build our faith again.。
So we're gonna let him do that today.。
Have you ever started a project?。
Have you ever began a journey?。
Have you ever set out to do something。
that was big and meaningful,。
that was perhaps for other people?。
Have you ever began a journey or become a person。
or develop a thing so that you can go somewhere,。
do something?。
Have you ever started a journey。
and about halfway through or a quarter of the way through。
or a third of the way through,。
you start to run into some obstacles?。
Have you ever started to try and follow God into something。
and then obstacles show up and mountains are really tall。
and there's so many challenges between you。
and following whatever it is that God is calling you into。
or stepped into?。
Have you ever began something。
and had to just stop and not be able to complete it。
because the challenges and the struggle was too much?。
Unfortunately, this is my life.。
It happens all the time with me.。
Years ago, I, due to a good friend。
who was a vegan, now a vegetarian, Nathan Blister.。
Yeah, so he was trying to encourage me。
to think about how I eat and take care of my body。
and the environment, all these good things.。
And I said, okay, fine, I'll try something.。
I will cut out because I'm very dramatic.。
I'm like, you know what?。
Zero sugar.。
I'm American.。
We live on sugar.。
This was a pretty big deal for me.。
Zero sugar.。
So I'm like, all right, I'm gonna do zero sugar.。
I made a decision to put it in my head.。
I'm gonna do it.。
I told Nathan about it.。
And about six hours later,。
found myself craving, desperately desiring,。
bubble tea.。
As you can see who won this, it wasn't my discipline.。
I started off on this journey.。
I mean, I made it six hours.。
That's pretty big for me, guys.。
Like, that's huge, okay?。
I didn't even know.。
I was telling someone earlier, I'm like,。
it's not until you tell yourself, I'm going to do this,。
I'm gonna cut out sugar,。
that all of a sudden you're like, oh my gosh, bubble tea.。
It just becomes a big thing.。
I don't drink bubble tea ever now.。
But when I said I was gonna do this, that's what happened.。
And I found myself trying to do something。
and starting and having good intentions。
and doing the right thing,。
and then all of a sudden just not being able to continue.。
But that was years ago.。
I wanna tell you a story about what happened recently.。
This year, as many of you would know,。
I've got two kids.。
I've got a little daughter named Remy,。
who's a year and a half.。
And Remy likes to follow me and her mom into the kitchen。
whenever we're cooking or doing anything in the kitchen.。
And so we decided, you know,。
maybe we'll get her a toy kitchen。
so that she can play with our little things。
and not be in a space that's dangerous。
where there's food and hot oil and hot water。
and pans and things like that.。
So we decided let's get her a kitchen.。
My plan going into this was very simple.。
Whatever you do, don't order from Ikea。
because I have a beef with Ikea.。
Every time I try and follow the Ikea manual,。
I always fail miserably.。
So I'm like, you know what?。
I'm gonna order a kitchen that's gonna arrive。
and be delivered, fully installed.。
Don't get it from Ikea.。
Pro tip, if you're thinking about marrying somebody,。
you and that person should try。
setting up Ikea furniture together。
and see if you're still in love.。
It will definitely tell you whether or not you're compatible。
if you can build Ikea furniture together,。
it's a marriage that's gonna last forever.。
That's some honest truth.。
So anyways, I decided no Ikea, I'm not doing it.。
So I ordered from Amazon like a good American does。
and all of a sudden this box shows up,。
like huge box, shows up at my house.。
Great, open the door, bring in the box, I carry it.。
I'm like, great, the whole thing is here.。
I open it up and it's just a box of pieces of wood.。
Even though I didn't order from Ikea,。
I still was given all these pieces。
and I had to put it together, which I loathe and I hate.。
But I love my daughter, so I was gonna put it together.。
So I decided to read the little manual,。
get out a little screwdriver, all these little tools。
and whatever, start putting it together.。
So page one, I open it, I put this here, put that there,。
start building and slowly it starts getting bigger。
and bigger and starting looking like a kitchen。
and we're almost there, we're almost there。
and I get to the last page and something's wrong。
with the door to this kitchen.。
I can't figure out what it is.。
I'm like pretty much finished with the manual,。
the instructions, but the door is still janky。
and falling off and every time I put it in,。
it comes out and it's not really working.。
I'm getting more frustrated, I should have just gone。
with Ikea and had them come and install it probably,。
but I wasn't smart, ordered from Amazon。
and now I have to figure it out by myself.。
My wife is putting the kids to sleep。
and I'm like, I wanna be that dad who's like up all night,。
you know, getting her kitchen ready.。
So in the morning when she wakes up,。
Remy will come out and she'll crawl。
and she'll see her kitchen and love it and love me。
and I'll be her biggest hero.。
However, I could not figure out how to do this kitchen。
and it's not even that complicated.。
I'm just so bad at these things.。
So I quit, I just couldn't do it, guys.。
Like I really tried and there was no success.。
Recently, even my wife has made this comment.。
So unfortunately, Remy sees her kitchen and it's cute,。
but the door's falling off.。
There's a picture so you can see I'm not lying about this.。
It's almost there.。
I started well, I made it halfway through.。
I was like 98%, but something's off with the door.。
I just can't figure out.。
My wife is like, oh, you should've just screwed。
this one piece here, but you know,。
I don't know what I'm doing with my life.。
So anyways, Remy is only one and a half。
and she doesn't care, she loves her kitchen.。
It's perfectly fine, life goes on.。
But for lots of us, it's not as simple as。
cutting up sugar and getting bubble tea。
or building a kitchen for your daughter.。
All of us carry in our hearts and our spirits。
these things that God has called us into,。
the people God has called us to be,。
the relationships God has called us into.。
And we started with all these great intentions.。
We desire to do the right thing and that should count.。
I think it does a little bit.。
So we take our steps and we follow through。
and we walk and we walk, but then mountain.。
Okay, okay, I can get through that one.。
I'm making it through that one, but then obstacle again.。
You're like, man, I'm trying to follow God.。
Why is it gonna be so hard?。
Right, like I'm trying, I'm trying,。
and you're like, what am I supposed to do?。
What are you supposed to do in those moments。
when you are trying to follow God。
and do the things that he's given you。
or put on your heart, trying to be the best that you can,。
and you end up with this incomplete mission,。
this incomplete vision, this incomplete dream.。
Your resources aren't enough,。
you're not strong enough to make it happen.。
You've lost sight of the vision,。
and you have to let that thing be dormant and just stay there.。
What does God expect from you in those moments?。
What does God desire that we do when we've tried our best。
and our best just isn't good enough?。
When we've run out of strength or willpower to keep going?。
When we've actually tried God, we put our best foot forward,。
but everything kept coming at us and kept coming at us,。
and every obstacle, every possible challenge kept showing up.。
What does God desire for us in that moment?。
Why has he given us an impossible dream?。
Why has God given you an unreachable task?。
Can anyone relate to this feeling?。
Has anyone been in that place before?。
Just lift your hand so others know that they're not alone.。
So quite a few of us have been there before,。
where God has led us to something.。
We're like, how am I supposed to do this?。
Perhaps you're here and you're in that place right now.。
God has called you to do what seems impossible,。
and you're asking yourself, what am I supposed to do now, God?。
What am I supposed to do now?。
I've tried.。
What am I supposed to do now?。
I wanna share with us a story out of Scripture。
of a time in the life of God's people in their history。
where they found themselves in some of the most。
impossible moments.。
A story of a man named Zerubbabel.。
The people of Israel had been exiled.。
Their city had been destroyed by the Babylonians.。
Their temple, we're just saying a song。
about how much we love the presence of God.。
The presence of God dwelt in a temple.。
So they had a physical place they could go。
if they wanted to see the presence of God,。
experience the presence of God.。
That had been destroyed.。
They felt like God had left them.。
The Ark of the Covenant, which held the 10 Commandments,。
was like the manifestation of the spirit of God was lost.。
No one knows where they are.。
They are completely scattered,。
and they get sent into exile for years,。
about 70-ish years, from empire to empire.。
First, it's the Babylonians,。
then it's the Persians and the Medes.。
And eventually, somehow, through some divine something,。
the King of Persia allows them to go back,。
back to their homeland, and they get back.。
They send Zerubbabel.。
Zerubbabel ends up being the governor.。
Him and about 50,000 people make their way back。
to a destroyed land that has nothing now.。
Everything's been burnt down.。
There's just rubble and ashes,。
and there's nothing beautiful.。
And it's in this space that God commissions Zerubbabel.。
I'm gonna read it to you.。
He says this.。
So the Lord stirred up in the spirit of Zerubbabel,。
governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua,。
son of Josedach, the high priest,。
and the spirit of the whole remnant of the people.。
They came and they began to work。
on the house of the Lord Almighty, their God,。
which is found in Haggai.。
So they get back, and everything is a mess.。
There's nothing beautiful.。
It's just rubble, and it's terrible,。
and there's nothing here.。
And God stirs in their spirit.。
He initiates it for them.。
Think about this.。
God disrupts them and says, "I want you to do this thing.。
"I want you guys to start building my temple again."。
God interrupts their plan.。
God intervenes into them.。
He stirs their spirit.。
This is good to remember.。
This whole temple thing is God's idea.。
Like, it wasn't like they're like,。
"Oh, let's just be really good, and let's build this."。
It's like God creates that desire in them,。
and commissions them.。
So God's idea given to them, "Go and do this."。
And I think for lots of us,。
when we have the idea of God's idea。
sending us to do something,。
or God has led us into this thing,。
we carry these preconceived ideas。
that because it's God's idea, it's meant to be easy.。
I mean, I carry that a lot of times.。
I have to regularly, I don't have to do anything.。
Actually, just living shows me clearly。
that just because I'm following God's plan。
does not mean it's gonna be easy.。
Sometimes I'm like, it becomes harder, right?。
Like, sometimes not following God's plan is the easy way,。
and everything is going well,。
but then I follow God's plan,。
it's like difficulty, difficulty, difficulty.。
I'm like, "What am I doing?"。
But that's how these people feel.。
The spirit of God stirs in their heart。
this desire to build, rebuild the temple.。
He interrupts their life, and sets them on this course.。
And I think their expectation is that,。
okay, if God has commissioned us to do this,。
if he's set it in our hearts, then let's do it.。
It's gonna be great.。
And they start to do it.。
They expect for it to be easy.。
But if you were here a few months back,。
you would've known that we as a Vine community。
went through this series on the book of Ezra,。
looking at this very aspect of the story,。
where they go to rebuild, and they get there,。
and they're literally standing。
in the rubble of the old temple.。
Like, talk about sad.。
Like, you're literally standing in the ruins of it.。
And I'm sure there's disappointment, and emotions,。
and frustrations, and hurt, and anger, and sadness.。
And it's from that space that they're supposed to build.。
And as they start building,。
there's those who are remembering how beautiful,。
and how great, and how much splendor。
the old temple used to have.。
The presence of God used to be here.。
Solomon, who was the richest king of his day,。
built this magnificent temple.。
It was beautiful to look at.。
And here they are standing in rubble,。
trying to rebuild it.。
So you have those who are literally weeping.。
Then you have those who are worshiping,。
because the idea of building God's temple,。
and the presence of God being back with his people,。
they could see this future hope.。
So you've got this weeping, and wailing,。
and worshiping happening side by side,。
while standing in the rubble.。
And then people start coming against them.。
People start trying to prevent them。
from building the temple.。
So now they're getting more obstacles, and more obstacles.。
And Pastor Andrew took us through a four-week series。
looking at this.。
But I wanna take us through what happens after all of that.。
So they go through these obstacles,。
and eventually they reach a point where they're like,。
we just can't do it.。
This desire that God had stirred in their hearts。
looks impossible.。
There's nothing that's making it happen.。
Every step there's difficulty, and there's frustration,。
and there's people against us, and situations against us.。
So they quit.。
They let it go.。
They just let it, they don't disobey God.。
They just stop obeying God.。
They let the dream die.。
They let it lie dormant for about 20 years.。
And actually, this is a really fascinating story.。
I can't go into it here,。
but they start building their own lives.。
They start rebuilding again.。
They've come back to their exiled land,。
where they were exiled from,。
and they're building their lives.。
And God's like, you're building your own life,。
but what about the temple?。
But that was too big for them, so they gave up on it.。
They let it go for 20 years.。
So they're living in the land,。
building up their lives with no temple for 20 years.。
And it's in that space that God breaks in。
through the prophet of Zachariah,。
speaking to the people,。
giving them perhaps the most important thing。
that they were missing when it came to following God。
and building his temple,。
whether it be building his temple。
or just being a follower of Yahweh.。
Some crucial information.。
So I'm gonna read for us here in Zachariah chapter four,。
starting at verse one.。
This is a vision, so it's not gonna be really clear.。
There's gonna be symbols and lamps and trees。
and things like that.。
But eventually, we'll get to verse six,。
where it'll be super clear.。
Says this, "Then the angel who talked with me。
"returned and woke me up,。
"like someone awakened from sleep.。
"He asked me, 'What do you see?'。
"And I answered, 'I see a solid gold lampstand。
"'with a bowl at the top and seven lamps on it,。
"'with seven channels through the lamps.。
"'Also, there are two olive trees by it,。
"'one on the right of the bowl and the other on its left.'。
"I asked the angel who talked to me,。
"'What are these, my Lord?'。
"He answered, 'Do you not know what these are?'。
"'No, my Lord,' I replied.。
"So he said to me,。
"'This is the word of the Lord to Zerubbabel.。
"'Not by might nor by power,。
"'but by my spirit,' says the Lord Almighty."。
Let me pray.。
God, we open your word and we ask, Holy Spirit,。
that you would speak to our hearts.。
That you would come now and give us understanding.。
Open our ears.。
Allow us to hear what you have to say to us this morning.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
The picture Zachariah is given。
is this picture of these trees and these lampstands.。
And there's this oil that's flowing through it.。
The lampstands really don't have a purpose。
if the oil isn't flowing through it.。
So the oil is flowing through it from the trees,。
one on the left and one on the right.。
This is God's response to 20 years。
of no one working on the thing that he called them to do.。
He gives them a picture of trees and lampstands.。
God sees that for 20 years,。
they've struggled so much, they've quit.。
They just let it go.。
And his response is trees and lampstand and oil.。
He understood that they felt like they had no way。
to finish what he had commissioned them into.。
He understood that they had obstacles.。
They had run out of strength, out of ability.。
And God's response is this,。
that my temple will not be built by might.。
It will not be built by power,。
but it will be built by my spirit.。
So what I wanna do today is examine these three elements。
that God speaks on, might and power and spirit.。
Understand what they have in common,。
what's different about them.。
'Cause I think this can be a pretty common Christian verse。
that we might use and hear and be inspired by.。
But I think when we understand its context。
of what it was meant to mean to the people then,。
we can better understand how it's meant。
to speak to us today.。
The first word is (speaking in foreign language)。
This is the Hebrew word that speaks of strength.。
It speaks of power, but it speaks of the individual power,。
the individual strength, the individual abilities。
and competencies and skills that one might have.。
It's the quality of being able to perform,。
especially a quality that permits。
you're achieving or accomplishing.。
This is how you are able to do something.。
So when God says not by this,。
he's saying not by your physical ability,。
not by how resilient you physically are。
or how strong you are mentally,。
not about what you can bring to the table.。
When I read this, I hear God saying,。
promise it's not about your gifts, as good as they are.。
It's not about your degrees.。
It's not by your cultural relevance,。
which I have done 'cause I'm from America, but you know.。
It's not by the things that you bring to the table.。
That is not how things will get done.。
And there's another word that shows up as well.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
This word speaks of wealth, of efficiency,。
of the strength of an army.。
So whereas the first word spoke。
of the individual's competencies,。
this now speaks of the general group,。
the community's efforts, their strength,。
what they, the sum of what all they have,。
what they bring to the table.。
So it's like not by your might promise,。
also not by the vine's efforts, right?。
The community, together we're stronger,。
but even together we're not enough to get。
to what God is wanting us to get to.。
Which kind of feels discouraging, if I'm honest, right?。
Like the collective resources, is it gonna be enough, God?。
The strength of the nation, the strength of the community.。
If we put all of our best foots forward,。
we're still not enough.。
Neither my individual strength or competencies,。
nor our collective efforts will be enough.。
The question that comes to mind is,。
has God called us to things that we can't accomplish?。
I feel like that's not really a good church question, is it?。
But I think it's one we have to wrestle with,。
because I think there's something。
for us to understand in this.。
Has God led us to these visions,。
and to these directions, and to these steps。
that actually we can't do?。
And if he has, why?。
What exactly is the purpose of having a start。
if we can't finish?。
If we don't have the strength,。
if we don't have the resources,。
if we don't have the network,。
if we don't have all the things that we need,。
if we don't have, if by our might and by our power,。
it's not gonna be enough to accomplish what you're doing,。
then why?。
Why does God start this response of his people。
by telling them what will not work first?。
It's rather than telling them, "Do this,"。
he says, "Don't do this, don't do this."。
I love the order in which he's said.。
He starts by addressing the things。
that we tend to put our trust in.。
So we as human beings, naturally,。
we're going to trust what we know works.。
And in so many cases, having the right resources,。
knowing the right people, having the right degrees,。
this is how we normally get by in life, right?。
Like, did you go to the right school?。
Did you have the right internship?。
Do you know the right people?。
Did you rub shoulders with whoever?。
Do you have enough money?。
Do you live in this right place?。
Then you can achieve X, Y, and Z.。
That's the metric that we normally live in.。
And God's like, "Actually, that's irrelevant.。
"It doesn't matter."。
He starts by telling us that we don't need。
to trust those things.。
We don't need to rely on those things.。
Let's understand this.。
God is saying they're irrelevant in accomplishing。
His goals if we depend on them.。
He's not saying that we can't have them.。
So God's not saying, "Give up all your resources,。
"give up all your strength, just completely be limp."。
That's not the Bible.。
However, what we rely on versus what we have。
are two different things.。
We as people, the temptation is to put our trust。
in these things.。
And God is saying this, that all those things,。
might and power and strength and things you can accumulate。
and all the things that you have,。
they make pretty crummy gods.。
They aren't meant to be depended on.。
They're not meant to be relied on.。
It's not by them that you accomplish the things of God.。
So you use your resources, use your strength,。
use your wealth, but rely on, depend on and trust in God.。
This is the course correction He's making.。
It's not saying one is bad, one is good.。
He's saying only one of these can be relied on.。
Only one of these is big enough for you to depend on,。
for you to put your faith and your trust in.。
When we start to trust and depend on our resources,。
what ends up happening?。
I found this very profound for me.。
It may not be profound for you,。
but as I was studying this, it really wrestled with my head.。
When we start to depend on our resources。
and the things that we have, by nature,。
we then start to determine what is possible。
based off of what we have.。
If I have enough of this, I can go this far.。
If I've accumulated this, I can now do this.。
It doesn't work for God.。
You can't use your resources and your might。
and your strength to determine。
if God wants you to go somewhere.。
What happens if God calls you to go somewhere。
and you don't have the resources?。
Must not be God.。
Ooh, but we have so many stories。
of God just saying, "Get up, Abraham, and go."。
Where's he going?。
I don't know.。
Leave everything behind.。
To disciples, just forget about mother and father,。
forget about being a dad, forget about fixing your cattle,。
forget about your farm, come and follow me.。
He says, "Forget about Abraham,。
"forget about the stuff."。
So we don't determine if God has called us into a season.。
We don't determine if we should stay and fight。
based off of what we have.。
We determine if we should stay in it。
based off of who we have.。
And who do we have?。
Who has been given to us?。
It's not by might, it's not by power,。
but it's by the Spirit, by my Spirit.。
(audience member coughs)。
I was, I don't know why I keep sharing this detail.。
So when I connect with God and I hear him speak,。
there's a place in my house that it happens at most.。
That place happens to be in the shower.。
I don't know why, but God just likes to talk a lot。
when I have really hot water running on my body.。
So last night, I'm getting ready, I'm praying,。
and I'm taking a shower, and God starts like,。
I don't know, just kind of like downloading some things。
that I didn't write into my sermon.。
So this is off-script production.。
But he was giving me this clear picture。
of the difference that separates。
might, power, and Spirit of God.。
So when it comes to might and power,。
those things naturally put you in a posture of taking.。
With your might, you can achieve these things.。
You can reach these things.。
With your power, you can get this, you can grab this,。
you can achieve, you can take for yourself.。
The Spirit of God cannot be taken.。
Small detail, but the Spirit of God cannot,。
you can't might enough to get the Spirit of God。
or the gifts of God.。
They are received, they are bestowed upon us.。
And the posture that we carry will determine。
which of those things that we're doing.。
Are we trying to get to the things of God。
by taking and reaching and aiming and striving,。
or have we postured ourselves enough。
to receive strength from Him,。
to receive the gifts that He gives。
that helps us to accomplish the things that He wants,。
even the endurance to withstand。
the years upon years of having to wait?。
Is our posture receiving, or is our posture taking?。
Is our posture by might and power and strength,。
or is it by receiving what the Spirit has for us?。
He says, "By my Spirit."。
It's one of the things that I love that God doesn't do here.。
I love it, but I hate it at the same time,。
so I'm kind of torn about it.。
He doesn't promise that the obstacles are gonna go away.。
Like, I would really love if this verse was like,。
"Not by power, not by might,。
"all the problems are gonna go away because of my Spirit."。
Like, I don't have tattoos, but that would be one。
that I would put on my body immediately.。
Right, like, if He just promised。
that all the problems are gonna go away, He doesn't.。
By my Spirit, but the obstacles are still gonna come.。
I think it's a bit of a reality check for us sometimes,。
that even with the Spirit of God,。
you will still face tribulations.。
You will still face obstacles.。
You will still face resistance。
in the very thing that God has called you into.。
And how do we make it through that?。
And it won't be by our might.。
It won't be by what we have.。
It won't be by our collective strength.。
It will be by His power, by His Spirit.。
To an extent, He says might and power are irrelevant。
when compared to the Spirit of God,。
which might sound kind of crazy to say,。
but there's exponentially greater value。
in the confidence of the Spirit with us。
than having all the resources we think we need.。
If you know the Spirit,。
you know this statement to be true.。
During the 9/15, end of the 9/15,。
I was talking with somebody and it hit me again.。
I'm like, I kind of wish God would tell me。
all these things beforehand so I could write them all。
into the sermon and it could flow pretty,。
but He doesn't, He just kind of tells me randomly.。
So another thought came to mind,。
so I thought I'd share it with you guys as well.。
Might and power and strength,。
all of those are finite resources.。
Resources end.。
They don't go on forever.。
Like half of our world is in so much chaos。
because we're fighting for resources.。
We're using our might and our power to hoard these things.。
The Spirit of God, that picture of the olive tree。
and the olive oil just overflowing,。
there is no end to Him.。
He's the beginning and He's the end.。
What He can do with or without our resources。
is abundantly bigger than anything。
that we could accommodate for ourselves.。
I'm saying all this just to say,。
don't count God out because you don't have。
the stuff you need to keep following Him.。
Don't count Him out because the job doesn't pay well enough。
or you don't know the language of the city。
that you're moving to.。
That sounds crazy.。
Like I moved to Hong Kong, I've shared it too many times,。
I won't go into details, but I came here。
only knowing about rush hour.。
I knew nothing about this city。
and I've been here for 12 years now.。
Like don't count God out。
because you don't have the resources.。
Don't count God out because you don't have。
the physical strength or the ability。
or the skill set or the networking。
or the you name the thing.。
No, we don't determine His calling。
and His desire for us to endure。
based off of what we have, but it's by His Spirit.。
That's the key to this whole thing.。
You think about how Jesus would call His disciples,。
follow me, gave them nothing, just said follow me.。
Think about if you've been here at the Vine。
for the past year, the one word that has been。
in like every sermon series is uncharted, right?。
This uncharted territories, uncharted waters,。
uncharted everything.。
This idea that God is calling us into a space。
that we do not know as a community.。
A space where our maps and our navigational tools。
aren't gonna be able to help us.。
Where our resources aren't gonna be able to be relied upon.。
Where we're not gonna have a strategy。
that we can fall back on.。
But instead we're gonna have to trust in Him.。
Which is a terrifying yet liberating thing.。
So let me reframe the slightly controversial question。
I asked earlier and put it this way.。
Has God called us into things bigger。
than we ourselves could accomplish?。
See it's a little bit different。
when you look at it that way.。
It's more about what He wants to do。
and less about how able we are.。
Which is the predominant posture we should carry。
into this new year.。
If God is calling you to endure a thing,。
if He's calling you to stay in a moment, to continue,。
it's less about your ability and so much more。
about what He is able to do.。
I'm gonna skip ahead production.。
I read this and I think, take the pressure off.。
It's up to God to accomplish what's gonna happen.。
You can breathe.。
I mean I know it's hard, but we can breathe.。
It's not up to us.。
We were never strong enough to begin with.。
We've always needed Him.。
So allow that breath to give you strength again.。
God's got it.。
I think this is why Paul can say things like。
in 2 Corinthians that God's strength。
is made perfect in our weakness.。
Now it doesn't matter how strong I am,。
but I boast in my weakness because I know who is strong。
and I know who is with me.。
So if I don't have the ability,。
but the God of the universe now resides,。
His presence, His temple, His dwelling place is inside of me。
then technically I can do all things through Christ。
who strengthens me.。
Amen?。
Because of He who is in us.。
Greater, so many scriptures come to mind.。
But greater is He who is in us。
than He who is in the obstacle that's coming.。
Greater is He who is in us。
than He who is in the waiting for years upon years.。
Greater is He who is within us。
than He who is within the world.。
Guys, we've got something great inside of us.。
The Holy Spirit.。
I just wish, like I can't fully comprehend it,。
but I wish we could all comprehend it more.。
That the God of the universe, His spirit, His essence,。
the power by which He says。
that we would be able to do greater things。
than Jesus Himself,。
chooses to dwell and live inside of you。
and promises to always be with you,。
to be a comforter, to lead you into peace,。
to help you understand the words of the scripture,。
to guide you.。
This is who lives inside of us.。
And with that understanding, with this promise,。
it's like every difficulty and obstacles。
are just God's opportunity to manifest His strength。
if we let Him.。
Difficulties and obstacles are God's opportunity。
to manifest His strength.。
I wanna share, a lot of this is theoretical,。
and I gave very silly examples up front,。
but I wanna share one that is probably gonna be the next,。
I don't know, for the rest of my life,。
thing that I'm gonna have to really be telling God,。
asking God to show me God not by might,。
not by power, by your spirit.。
I have two kids, and they're young.。
I realize I have not stepped into。
any of the real hard parenting challenges yet.。
I get that.。
But man, does it feel like if I just read the right blogs,。
watch the right videos, listen to Dr. Becky,。
whoever else is out there, you know?。
Like might and strength,。
and if I just accommodate all, get all the stuff I need,。
then my kids will be the people I want them to be.。
They will be these children of God。
who are able to do all these things.。
But I feel like what God has been speaking to me。
is promise, it's not by might or by power。
that Elias and Remy are mine.。
No, it's by His spirit alone.。
So I don't know if there are any parents in the room。
who are wrestling with how do I do this with my kids,。
who are wrestling with kids。
who have maybe gone astray for a while,。
who are really trying to figure out。
how do I make sure that my kids don't become like the world。
because they're in the world.。
Parents who are living in fear,。
I feel like this verse is for you,。
that it's not by might, it's not by power,。
but it's by the spirit of God.。
So lean on, depend on, trust in the spirit of God.。
Let me give you three practical things。
because you guys know every good pastor。
ends their sermon with three practical steps, okay?。
So this is where you really need to focus in on, all right?。
Three things you can do as you go through the new year.。
First thing, fix, keep your eyes on the right thing.。
It's so easy for us to become fixated with the environment,。
with the things that are going on wrong,。
with the obstacles, with the mountains.。
It's so easy when things have been stalled for years。
to focus on everything but God,。
to really know the problem well.。
You know, like we know our problems really well,。
but do we know our promise keeper well?。
See, David would say it like this,。
he would say, I lift my eyes to the mountains.。
Where does my help come from?。
My help comes from the Lord, the maker of heaven and earth.。
God's not saying you need to ignore your problems.。
He's also saying you don't need to fixate on it.。
Turn your attention to Jesus.。
Don't get distracted by what's happening.。
Fix your eyes on him.。
Point two, abide in him.。
Abide feels like a big Christian word.。
It just means remain, like stay close.。
The picture of the olive trees and the lamps,。
the reason that flow could take place。
is because the lamps were positioned close to the tree.。
We've got to abide.。
We've got to remain close to the one。
who stirred in our hearts in the first place, right?。
Like, and I think one of the ways。
we can do this is through prayer.。
One of the ways that I've been doing this。
is through journaling.。
Now, I'll confess, I'm a hater.。
I used to hate on journaling.。
I used to think it was, nah, didn't care for it.。
Recently, though, I have started journaling my prayers.。
I don't journal my feelings, I just journal my prayers.。
So I write to God what is really on my heart。
as I pray to him.。
And I found myself going from someone。
who can't do a three-hour praying marathon。
to becoming someone who could do,。
I could journal my prayers for a long time.。
I've got so many of them now.。
And it really allows me to tell God what's going on.。
Look, God doesn't expect you to pretend like it's not hard.。
He listens.。
He hears you.。
He cares.。
He understands.。
There's a healing, there is a comfort。
in going to him with it.。
And something specifically that my mom taught me,。
my mom teaches me everything,。
but my mom taught me this one,。
is to pray back his promises to him.。
That's a fun one.。
And God's not gonna get mad at you for saying,。
but God, you said in your word,。
he's like, oh God, the Bible says that?。
No, he won't be shocked.。
He knows it's there.。
And it does something, too,。
is because whether you're writing it down。
or it's coming out of your mouth,。
reminding yourself that he is faithful to his words.。
Well, if he said it, he's gonna do it.。
If he said it, he's gonna do it.。
He is faithful.。
He's not gone wrong once.。
He's undefeated in this.。
He doesn't mess up, doesn't make mistakes.。
Pray his words back to him,。
and watch what that does to you。
and how that builds faith and confidence again in him,。
not in how things are going.。
Abide in him.。
And lastly, this, seek him first.。
I don't mean like seek first the kingdom of God。
and righteousness, like that common verse.。
I love that one.。
I mean, go to God in faith.。
Seek him first meaning,。
rather than determining for yourself。
based off of what you see,。
based off of what you have,。
based off of your brilliant analysis skills,。
to this can't be what God wants me to do。
because look at the things ahead of me.。
Rather than determining for yourself,。
this can't be the way God,。
I should quit by this point, quit while I'm ahead.。
This is obviously a closed door.。
Rather than determining for yourself,。
Proverbs 3, 5, which is a very common verse, says this,。
"Trust in the Lord with all of your heart."。
And this is the best part, specifically for today.。
Lean not on your own understanding,。
but submit your ways to him.。
That means submit what you think you understand,。
submit what you feel, submit what you see,。
submit the obstacles and the challenges。
and the fears and the disappointment and the discouragement.。
Submit those things to him。
and he will make your paths straight.。
This is how we trust him.。
This is how we rely on him.。
Let's not be a people who make the mistake。
of substituting the spirit of God for what we can see。
or for the resources we have.。
Spirit is much more valuable than that.。
So our year is ending,。
and we're going into next year.。
And I know there are so many of us,。
I mean, I saw the hands earlier,。
that sit in this space of waiting for God.。
Lucky for you, our first sermon series of the next year。
is on waiting, so make sure you're here for that.。
Little plug.。
But no, sitting in that space of waiting for God,。
and being steadfast and committing。
to what he's calling you into is hard.。
It takes, well, everything you've got.。
But the way that God is calling us。
to step into that space is to acknowledge and rely on him.。
So what I'm gonna have us do,。
I'll have you close your eyes, sit here,。
I'm gonna pray for you.。
As the worship team comes up,。
Emma, can I have you guys do Fall Like Rain one more time,。
whole song, there's some stirring in our hearts,。
so many things in there that I think。
it's good for us to think about.。
But I just wanna pray for us,。
because it's going to take everything we have。
to not depend on ourselves.。
It's gonna take a rewiring of our minds。
to not lean on our own understanding,。
to not only see the problem,。
but to choose to see God,。
to lift our eyes higher than the obstacles,。
to abide in him when strategy and being wise。
would say go and figure it out.。
The countercultural thing of receiving the spirit。
versus taking for yourself.。
These are things that we need。
the Spirit's help to do in the new year.。
So let me pray.。
Jesus, we come before you,。
thankful for your word,。
thankful for what we see in and about。
you, the power of your Spirit,。
the strength of your Spirit,。
and the fact that that's actually all we need.。
God, there are those of us who have little resources,。
have little strength, have little here on Earth,。
and it feels impossible to truly follow you.。
Holy Spirit, would you begin to flush out the lie。
that things are what we need,。
and replace it with the reality and the truth。
that you are all that we need.。
No one is discredited or counted out。
if they will follow after your Spirit.。
So those of us who have been under the weight。
and the anxiety of not having。
and thinking that the dream is dead because we can't,。
God, would you renew strength in us。
as we rely on you, as we wait upon you.。
God, for those of us who may not be in that situation,。
who may have the things and the temptation is。
to use what we have, God, I pray that you would show us。
that you are more valuable, that you are more precious,。
that you are almighty.。
Would you remind us of your splendor?。
Would you remind us of who you are?。
And give us the strength, Holy Spirit,。
to let go of lesser things,。
that we may lean and depend on you.。
Show us here, God, what that looks like in this new year.。
God, for those of us who are waiting in that in-between,。
I pray for strength in the name of Jesus.。
God, for those of us, specifically those。
who are wrestling with my power。
versus by my Spirit with their kids,。
God, would you first come in comfort?。
Holy Spirit, would you first come and be near?。
Would you draw near to those hearts?。
And God, I pray that you would show parents in the room,。
the ones that you're specifically talking to this morning,。
that you would show them what it looks like。
to open their hands and to trust you。
with perhaps their most valuable gift.。
Holy Spirit, we invite you to come and minister now.。
(gentle music)。
