You know, I'm so excited about the work that God is doing in our Resonance Youth Group.。
I said it right, I usually say it wrong.。
And for those of you who don't know, actually two years ago on Vision Sunday, we said that。
we sensed that God was inviting us to start a youth group.。
And so Fran and Brian and Andrew and others have been faithful, you know, volunteering。
and leading that.。
And it's so cool to see the fruit of that, you know, to see, yeah, just God bringing。
people from different backgrounds together, you know, being a community, loving each other,。
being hungry for God's Word.。
And so I was super excited about that.。
Now transitioning.。
When I was in eighth grade, which was not that long ago, not really, I was scared of。
riding the bus.。
And the reason why I was scared of riding the bus was because there was a 13th grader。
in Germany, you go to 13th grade, and his friend that were bullying me in the bus.。
So the way that usually looked, I got on the bus first, you know, several steps later,。
they got on the bus, and then they tried to sit somewhere around me.。
Usually they try to be behind me.。
So I tried to sit somewhere where they couldn't sit behind me.。
But then they like were hit, you know, hit my head and said things.。
And so this was my daily bus routine.。
Now I'm from a small village.。
The other guys were from another village.。
So I learned a little bit about him.。
And what I learned was that the 13th grader, that he was a neo-Nazi and a drug dealer.。
So I was even more fearful.。
I was like, I don't know if this is helpful for me to know.。
And so every day I had anxiety getting on this bus because I didn't know exactly, you。
know, how this all would play out on that day.。
And there really was some suffering, especially, you know, emotionally, and there was a lot。
of fear.。
Now we all, you know, we're no strangers to suffering at the hands of other people.。
To one degree or another, we have experienced that.。
Where there's somebody in our lives that just does not treat us the right way.。
Sometimes it might be even an organization, an institution.。
Sometimes it might even be our country of origin, you know, where we're from and what。
has happened.。
But we all have suffered to one degree or another at the hands of others.。
And sometimes we probably also have caused somebody else to suffer as well.。
So it's easy to focus on our suffering and sometimes forget that we've also, you know,。
played a role in the other way.。
But what I want to do with you today through this sermon is I want to explore with you。
this question as a Christian, how can we navigate when we suffer at the hands of others?。
You know, what do we do and what does God's Word have to say to us about that?。
And so we're continuing in the book of Daniel in our Unshaken Sermon series.。
And we've looked the first few weeks at chapter one, chapter two, chapter three, and now we're。
jumping to chapter seven.。
There's actually quite a significant shift that happens in chapter seven.。
Chapters one through six, they're about Daniel and his friends.。
And they're narrative about that.。
But in chapters from chapter seven to chapter 12, it's Daniel's apocalyptic visions.。
So this is some, you know, really, for us, unfamiliar imagery.。
And if you don't know what, you know, apocalyptic means, basically, it's like the book of Revelations.。
So if you've read the book of Revelations, there are just things in there that a lot。
of us are not familiar.。
And I was thinking before this message, there was one time where I was reading something,。
and I did not know that it was satire.。
And so I'm reading, and I think it's a serious report.。
And then I realize I completely misunderstood at some point.。
This is so ridiculous, you know, because satire is like sarcastic.。
And I was like, this is so ridiculous.。
I scanned between and finally I was like, oh, it's satire.。
And it can be a little bit that way with apocalyptic literature, because there really is a。
shift of genre in the book of Daniel.。
That the way we read and interpret it, we don't maybe always know how to do that.。
So we're not as familiar with it.。
But it is God's word, and God wants to speak to us through it today.。
So we're going to look at that in just a moment.。
But I want to settle a bit the context of Daniel.。
So Daniel and the people from Judah and Israel, Jerusalem has been destroyed.。
They had been deported to Babylon.。
They're in exile.。
It's part of their punishment because they had been consistently disobedient to God.。
And they're suffering.。
They're suffering at the hands of the Babylonians.。
But now there is some change in the air.。
And we can only imagine that Danny, who's very astute politically, that he can sense。
that there is a shift in power that is going to occur.。
And the question is, will God's people, will they be able to return to Israel?。
And will Israel be restored and come out of exile?。
Or will there be further suffering and further challenges ahead?。
And so those are some of the questions we can imagine floating around in Daniel's head.。
And so it's here where God speaks to Daniel through a vision.。
And before we actually look at that vision, I want to give you an outline of it, because。
we're not going to look at every part.。
So there's three sections to Daniel 7.。
First is a vision of four beasts.。
And then the second part is visions of the Ancient of Days and the Son of Man.。
So these are two visions that are held side by side.。
And then finally, in the stream that Daniel has, there is a heavenly being, probably an。
angel, who explains to Daniel this vision.。
And we're going to be spending most of the time in the first two parts, but I'm sometimes。
going to jump in the other one to help us understand our discussion in the first part.。
All right, that was my setup.。
So are you guys ready to dive in?。
Yes.。
Okay.。
Now I have another request.。
Because I'm going to read to you the scripture, I want you to pay attention to what you feel.。
Okay?。
And I might even ask you afterwards what you felt.。
All right?。
All right, let's do it.。
So starting in verse four, Daniel, he's had a vision, a dream.。
He sees four beasts come out of the sea, and then this is the description of the first。
one.。
The first was like a lion, and it had the wings of an eagle.。
I watched until its wings were torn off, and it was lifted from the ground so that it stood。
on two feet like a human being.。
And the mind of a human was given to it.。
And there before me was a second beast, which looked like a bear.。
It was raised up on one of its sides, and it had three ribs in its mouth between its。
teeth.。
It was told, "Get up and eat your fill of flesh."。
After that, I looked, and there before me was another beast, one that looked like a。
leopard, and on its back it had four wings like those of a bird.。
This beast had four heads, and it was given authority to rule.。
After that in my vision, at night, I looked, and there before me was a fourth beast, terrifying。
and frightening and very powerful.。
It had large iron teeth.。
It crushed and devoured its victims and trampled underfoot whatever was left.。
It was different from all former beasts, and it had ten horns.。
While I was thinking about the horns, there before me was another horn, a little one,。
which came up among them, and three of the first horns were uprooted before it.。
This horn had eyes like the eyes of a human being and a mouth that spoke boastfully.。
Now this might be the point where some of you are thinking, "Why did I bring my friends。
to church today?"。
But it will be fine.。
That's okay.。
But I would love to hear, what did you actually feel as we were reading this?。
Fear.。
Fear.。
Okay.。
What else?。
Fear.。
Fear.。
Violence.。
Violence.。
Okay.。
Let's have two more.。
Fear.。
Scary.。
And then what else?。
Confusion.。
Confusion.。
Yes.。
So that pretty much sums up what I have felt when I read this.。
It's confusing.。
It's disorienting.。
But it's also terrifying.。
What is this?。
What in the world is this about?。
How shall we understand that?。
But that's exactly what apocalyptic imagery is meant to do.。
It's meant to make us feel something.。
And apocalyptic literature is different from prophecy where it's about a specific thing。
that happens, but it's more a painting, a picture that evokes feelings and that gives。
us a hint of the evil that is unfolding.。
And so that's one of the things that we feel.。
But how should we understand this?。
What does this mean?。
Well, Daniel 7.17 gives us a little clue.。
This is the part where a heavenly being explains to Daniel about the vision that he saw.。
And he says this.。
Four great beasts are four kings that will rise from the earth.。
So this is about kingdoms.。
So it's not about some weird animal creatures.。
This is about kingdoms that will arise and there will be cycles that are destructive,。
that are evil, and are successive.。
Now a lot of times when this passage is studied, a lot of focus is put on these different kingdoms。
and which one could it relate to in actual history.。
In the first one, pretty much everyone agrees this is about Babylon.。
But then when it gets to the second one, people start disagreeing and there's different views。
on that.。
What does this relate to in our actual history?。
And these explorations, I do think they're fruitful and helpful to try to understand。
what might this specifically in history be referring to, which kingdoms.。
But I think when we pursue the study in that way, a lot of times we miss the forest before。
the trees.。
We focus on the tree, but we actually miss the message that God wants to speak to us。
and that he was speaking to Daniel and his people.。
So that's what I want to focus on, on the main message.。
Does that sound good?。
Are we still tracking?。
Yes.。
So far, there's this vision of these four beasts, they're evil, destructive empires,。
it's terrifying.。
Or later in the chapter seven, we're given a little bit more detail.。
So I just want to name that, we're not going to read it.。
But in verse 20, it says that this fourth beast, that horn, that it was waging war against。
God's people.。
And then in verse 25, it says that this horn was speaking against the Most High.。
So not only are these evil empires, but there's a targeting of God's people.。
There is a persecution that is happening.。
And so this is, I mean, just imagine being Daniel.。
So here he's having this dream and what a terrifying vision to receive.。
But if we take a step back and actually think about our own context, and maybe even places。
where some of us come from, is that really so foreign?。
Or do we actually know these forces of evil and oppressive regimes that really lead people。
to suffering?。
And I think we know it.。
There's wars, there's genocide, there's political persecution, all these things that are happening。
in our world.。
So Daniel's world is actually not that far from our own world.。
So this is actually part of our, for some of us, perhaps you have experienced.。
So we're no strangers to this.。
And I'm reminded of, I was, well, I'm not going to date, it's a long time ago.。
I was in North Africa at an underground church gathering.。
Now this was in a country where there was 0.2% Christians.。
And a lot of those 0.2% were actually expatriate Christians.。
So Christians that are not from that country that are just having to work there, live there。
for whatever reason.。
And so I went to this church service.。
It was in a neighborhood, they shut the windows.。
When we worshipped, we didn't sing loud, or they didn't sing loud.。
It was quiet, really held back because they didn't want the neighbors to hear.。
And then, so I had somebody translating to help me understand what was going on.。
And one of the ladies was challenging the other believers to go public with their faith.。
Now she was from there, so she can do that.。
But in that country, what going public with your faith means, was saying, "I'm a Christian."。
It means you lose your job.。
It means you're cut off from your family.。
And you're more of a target to persecution, to imprisonment, and you're not going to get。
the justice that other people get.。
And so, I mean, again, this is really part of our world.。
This is really part of what people experience.。
Right now we have brothers and sisters around the world who are suffering in oppressive。
circumstances where they are imprisoned, where they're mistreated.。
And there's also, of course, many other people who are not Christians who are also suffering。
under regimes as well, and they should matter to us as well.。
In this case, I was meeting these brothers and sisters.。
So we are no strangers to these oppressive regimes and to evil, and evil people that。
cause suffering in our lives.。
But let's return to Daniel's vision, because right now this is very just heavy, right?。
But there's a shift now in this vision.。
There's a second vision, and so we're going to continue verse nine.。
It says this, "As I looked, thrones were set in place, and the Ancient of Days took his。
seat.。
His clothing was white as snow.。
The hair of his head was white like wool.。
His throne was flaming with fire, and its wheels were all ablaze.。
A river of fire was flowing, coming out from before him.。
Thousands upon thousands attended him.。
Ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him.。
The court was seated, and the books were opened.。
Then I continued to watch, because of the boastful words the horn was speaking.。
I kept looking until the beast was slain and its body destroyed and thrown into the blazing。
fire.。
The other beasts had been stripped of their authority, but were allowed to live for a。
period of time."。
So here we shift to a heavenly throne room scene.。
You know, thrones are brought out.。
King is going to take his seat.。
It's the Ancient of Days.。
And the Ancient of Days is another name for God.。
And it focuses on him administering justice and having wisdom.。
And so this is a courtroom scene.。
And we're told in verse 10 that the court was seated, the books were opened.。
Now what this means, this book, is that's where everything is recorded.。
Everything that has happened is recorded in this book.。
Every wrong that has been committed, every offense against God or against people is recorded。
in this book.。
And God is holding judgment.。
God does not sweep any evil under the rug.。
It is all accounted for.。
He does not ignore what happens.。
It matters to him.。
It matters to him.。
So God does not ignore the evil of these four beasts.。
And he pronounces a judgment.。
And God, what I want you to see is that God's power, his might, his authority far surpasses。
that of those evil empires.。
You know, the ones where we were feeling confused and fearful.。
You know, he is sovereign, he is mighty, and he speaks and pronounces judgment and administers。
justice.。
And so Daniel gets to see this in the vision.。
There is no one like our God.。
There is no one like our God.。
And this vision that Daniel is given is one of hope, because it means that the wrongs。
will be accounted for.。
And especially those who are suffering under evil.。
If you're a person that is on the receiving end of people who are causing you to suffer,。
of evil regimes, of people that are targeting you, and you know that there is a God that。
is going to hold everyone accountable, that is powerful.。
That is meaningful.。
That is something that gives us hope.。
That's something that gives those who are suffering something to hold on to.。
Because God will administer justice.。
And he has the power, the sovereignty, and the authority to do so.。
And he does not ignore evil.。
So God is sovereign ruler, his power is unmatched, he does not ignore evil, and he will judge。
it.。
And, you know, sometimes there are texts that maybe they might not seem in the moment relevant。
for some people, but you better believe, you know, if you're suffering right now because。
of evil that other people are doing, you know, this is relevant to you.。
You know, this is relevant to our brothers and sisters who are being persecuted.。
And I believe this is relevant to some of us here, you know, just knowing this.。
So God will do something about it.。
He will not ignore what happened.。
Now, when I was a youth pastor, young adult pastor, my first job out of seminary, I was。
in Germany, in a town called Weimar.。
Now right outside of Weimar is Buchenwald.。
If you're not familiar with Buchenwald, it's one of the concentration camps of the Nazis.。
And so I visited there many times.。
Actually I got kind of sick of visiting.。
But whenever people came, they wanted to go there.。
And so in these concentration camps was actually the first Protestant Christian martyr in Germany.。
His name was Paul Schneider.。
And Paul Schneider, he was a young pastor, he refused to give in to the pressure of the。
Nazi regime.。
You know, they wanted him to administer a funeral and say certain things he didn't want。
to say.。
They wanted him to do this.。
He didn't do those things.。
And so he was thrown in this concentration camp.。
And then in this camp, he proclaimed the gospel.。
He called him actually the preacher of Buchenwald.。
So he proclaimed God's message.。
He, that I couldn't find the book.。
I have a book from his widow.。
And it talks about that he was a lot of times put in an isolation prison cell where he was。
just suspended in air, you know, in his body.。
He was beaten.。
He was drugged.。
He was just totally mistreated.。
It was horrible.。
But from his prison cell, when people came to line up in the mornings and evenings, when。
the call, roll call or whatever you call it, I don't know what that's called, he would。
shout from his prison cell, you know, I am the resurrection and the life.。
You know, everyone believes in me.。
So he's proclaiming the truth that even in the face of death, those who belong to Jesus,。
you know, have hope.。
And even in the face of death, this is not the end.。
Their God can see them through.。
But he also called the guards who were committing what was wrong to repentance.。
He's like, God will call you to account.。
You need to repent.。
What you're doing is evil and unjust.。
I mean, you know, this is, he had a vision like Daniel had.。
He knew who God was.。
He knows that God is on the throne, that God has ultimate authority, that our lives, you。
know, we want to submit it ultimately to God, to the one who truly rules, not to fake rulers,。
you know, who pretend like they have power and have authority.。
They have for a little while because God gives it to them, but God will take it away and。
he will judge it.。
And so he had this vision of God on the throne and he knew it and he was faithful, you know,。
unimaginably.。
I hope none of us will ever have to experience that, but the reality is some people right。
now are experiencing this.。
But a lot of times it's interesting when we talk about God's justice and judgment, it's。
not the happy, clappy sort of sermon.。
You know, we love talking about love and grace, and I love talking about love and grace.。
I do think that's where the Bible sets the focus and that's usually what we talk about,。
again, if you're visiting, you know, that's usually what we talk about.。
But if you think about it, actually, you know, part of being loving, if you're truly loving,。
also means you need to be just.。
If I'm a manager of a group of people and somebody's being mistreated and treated wrongly。
and I just ignore it, I'm not a good manager.。
I'm actually an evil manager because I'm in a position of authority, but I'm not doing。
anything about it.。
In a similar way, it seems true for God, you know, but He does not ignore evil.。
He does judge.。
He might not judge it right in the moment when we want it, but He will bring judgment.。
He will hold us accountable.。
Every single person will stand before God and we'll have to give account for our lives.。
Now if you have received the King, King Jesus, you know, you stand in His righteousness.。
And when we stand as judgment, you know, there's His righteousness instead of our sins and。
failures because we've been forgiven.。
But this does not mean, you know, that when we become Christians that there is not even。
other stuff to work out from, you know, before we were Christians and things that we did。
wrong.。
If we can still make amends or make things right to our ability, we're actually called。
to do that.。
But everybody will have to give account and will stand before the judge, you know, and。
God will administer justice because He's truly righteous.。
He's truly good and He's able to do that.。
No human being is able to fully administer justice, but God is able to do that and He。
will.。
Well let's continue with, actually that same vision continues, so let's continue in verse。
13, it says this, "In my vision at night I looked and there before me was one like a。
son of man, coming with the clouds of heaven.。
He approached the ancient of days and was led into His presence.。
He was given authority, glory, sovereign power.。
All nations and peoples of every language worshipped Him.。
His dominion is an everlasting dominion that will not pass away and His kingdom is one。
that will never be destroyed."。
So this second character that appears is called, "one like a son of man" and we're told that。
He's coming on clouds, on the clouds of heaven.。
Now if you look at Psalms and Isaiah and different scriptures, whoever writes the clouds is God.。
So this is interesting because you have the ancient of days who's God and now we have。
the son of man who's coming in clouds who's God in the same scene.。
So this points us towards Jesus, who actually, one of His favorite ways of referring to Himself。
was the son of man.。
He says that over 80 times in the gospel.。
He uses that and He's pointing back to Daniel and Jesus saying, "This is me.。
I'm the son of man who comes riding on the clouds.。
I'm the one who's given this authority and power.。
I'm the one who will administer also justice."。
And so this, looking back as Christians, we know that what Daniel saw in his vision was。
Jesus, which is amazing.。
Of course, Daniel does not know that at this point in time, but it's still a powerful vision。
of hope that He's given.。
And Daniel sees that the son of man that He's giving glory and sovereign power and that。
all nations and peoples are for every length for worship.。
Now it's interesting in the book of Revelations, it talks about that every knee will bow, well。
that's Philippians, and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord.。
But in the book of Revelations it also talks about people coming together from all tribes,。
tongues, and nations and worshiping Him.。
And so we see this here.。
But also what I want you to notice that in contrast to these beastly kingdoms that we've。
looked at, this kingdom is an everlasting and unshakable kingdom that will last for。
all eternity.。
It's not one that gets thrown over because God's authority is untouchable.。
His throne, His might, His power, it stands above them all.。
There is nobody like Him and nobody can overturn that.。
So Jesus' kingdom is an eternal kingdom that cannot be defeated or destroyed.。
But there is one more last little part that adds to this vision for the people and that's。
in verse 18.。
And so I have that up here.。
Again it's the heavenly messenger that's helping Daniel explain the vision.。
He says this, "But the holy people of the Most High will receive the kingdom, will possess。
it forever."。
Yes, forever and ever.。
So not only does Jesus vindicate those who are treated wrongly, but they will also share。
with Him in His eternal kingdom.。
And they will receive it and they will rule with Him.。
Now if you look back at Genesis, at the beginning of scripture, it talks about being made in。
the image of God means that we're created to rule and to reign.。
And then here you see this being announced that this will be a reality where we get to。
rule and reign.。
For those who have received the king will also receive the kingdom and will reign with。
Him.。
Now the word holy here means set apart.。
And so it's talking about believers that have set God apart in their lives and that are。
set apart to God.。
And so God is faithful to them.。
He never puts us to shame.。
He will vindicate us.。
He will see us through.。
And again this might not always be what we wanted, even though a lot of times God does。
act in the here and now.。
And I want us to have hope in that.。
And as a community we ask for that and we come to God and pray for that.。
But sometimes it's also the vindication in this life beyond, in a new heaven and a new。
earth where He will wipe away our tears.。
You know, it's interesting.。
I've never...。
So it talks about in Revelations.。
And what's interesting is that it's God who will be wiping away our tears.。
He is the one who will set it right.。
He has the power to set things right that nobody else can and to make us whole and well.。
Even those like Paul Schneider who have gone through severe suffering and ultimately dying。
a martyr's death that we cannot imagine, but he has the power to set it right and to wipe。
away his every tear.。
Now what a vision of the future God gives to Daniel in his chaotic time, in times of。
uncertainty, in the shift of power.。
And this brings me back to the question I raised at the beginning of the sermon.。
You know, as Christians, how can we navigate when we suffer at the hands of others?。
You know, how shall we navigate that?。
Well here Daniel gives us not the answer, but he gives us an answer, which is that we're。
invited to look at God who sits on the throne.。
When we face suffering, when people do evil, he is calling us to behold him and to remember。
who he is, that he is the sovereign Lord, the mighty one, the powerful one who loves。
us, who is for us, and who will ultimately judge and administer justice and vindicate。
us.。
And that's what he wants us to look at, invites us to look at.。
But what I appreciate about Daniel's vision is that he does not ignore our suffering.。
You know, there is real suffering that is described to the people, and that's a reality.。
We can't deny it.。
That is part, sadly, a lot of times part of our lives.。
But God helps us and shows us who to put our hope in, where to lift our eyes to.。
And so we're encouraged to see our individual lives and even our suffering within this greater。
story, this grand redemptive narrative of God.。
Because a lot of times we just get overwhelmed, and we get crushed by what's going on, and。
we just see ourselves on our own and in darkness.。
But God invites us to view our own story and our own suffering within this larger story。
of the God who reigns, the God who loves, the God who administers justice, the God who。
will vindicate, and the God who will give the kingdom to his people, to those who belong。
to him.。
So I have a little bit of a summary statement.。
I also want to invite the worship team to come up at this point in time.。
So this is what the vision of God gives to Daniel, and I believe what he wants to say。
to us.。
"When suffering overwhelms you and chaos surrounds you, God speaks through Daniel's vision, 'I。
am in charge.。
I am more powerful.。
I will overcome.。
I will judge and bring justice.。
You will receive the kingdom.。
So stay coarse.。
Keep your eyes on the throne.。
Keep your eyes on me.。
Don't give up.'"。
God is fighting for you, and he will vindicate you.。
He will administer justice.。
He does not ignore evil.。
He loves you, and he will establish his kingdom.。
He will defeat evil, even the evil that is impacting us in our own lives.。
So I want to invite you to stand, and I want to just pray over us.。
I want to pray for us to put our eyes on the throne, for those of us who are suffering。
here, but also for our brothers and sisters that are suffering around the world.。
So let's pray, Church.。
We thank you that you are the Son of Man who has come and has brought the kingdom and who。
will one day come again and will fully establish.。
You will fully establish your just rule.。
And Lord, I want to pray right now for those of us here who are suffering, for where we。
have been treated wrongly and where we are suffering.。
Lord, you know everyone that is experiencing this.。
And I just pray that you help us to see you like Daniel saw you in this dream, the ancient。
of days, sitting on the throne and pronouncing a judgment, opening the book and not ignoring。
what has happened.。
And I pray that you give us hope and confidence in who you are, that you are a sovereign ruler,。
that you are mighty, that you fight our battles, and that either you vindicate us here, but。
even if it's not here, you will ultimately vindicate us.。
And Lord, I do pray that you provide for us now, Lord, that you relieve us of the suffering。
that some of us are carrying, that whatever is going on, that you just stop that evil,。
Lord, and that you bring release and you bring freedom.。
And Lord, I want to also just pray that we just see you in your fullness as the one who。
loves us, the one who gives himself for us, who pursues us, but also as the one who sees。
us through.。
And as I'm praying, I'm just sensing that God is inviting us to put him back on the。
throne, in the center of our lives.。
So Lord, we pray for that.。
Like, when we've moved you aside, when we've lost sight of who you are, Lord, we want to。
place you back at the center of our lives, that you are Lord.。
Like it talks about we're holy people, we're set apart by you, but we also set you apart。
and we're obedient to you and we do what you asked us to do and we trust in you.。
And Lord, I want to pray for those who are persecuted right now, that are suffering unimaginable,。
that are maybe in despair and just wondering, will anyone ever do something about it?。
Will anyone ever know?。
Is anyone thinking of us, Lord?。
Yes, we are thinking of them, Lord.。
And we pray for them.。
We pray that you will deliver them.。
We pray for deliverance, Lord.。
Will you right now pour out your Holy Spirit on those who are suffering because they know。
you, because they follow you?。
Will you strengthen them?。
Will you provide for them?。
Will you make your presence known and tangible to them?。
Will you restore and renew their hope?。
Will you let them see you?。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
So we thank you, Lord, that you're on the throne and we lift all this up to you.。
We pray all this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Let's worship church.。
(water bubbling)。
