I think that's such a beautiful way of summarizing what Christmas is all about.。
That one line, "Born is the King of Israel."。
Because really in that line it summarizes the culmination of what the Christmas story。
is, this idea that Jesus has indeed come.。
That this King of Israel is not just the King of Israel, but is the King for all of us,。
for all people, for all time.。
And because the Christmas story is this declaration that indeed Jesus has come, there is this。
inherent challenge within the Christmas story.。
I don't know if you've thought about this challenge before, but think about it like。
this.。
Christmas is this idea that God has indeed stepped into this world towards us.。
The question Christmas asks us is whether we have stepped forward towards Him.。
He has come, born is the King of Israel, but have I come?。
Have I drawn near to Him?。
In this way it's fascinating because the Christmas story is essentially a story about movement.。
It's a story about a journey.。
It's a journey of invitation for all of us to come towards the one who was indeed born。
some 2,000 years ago in Bethlehem, in that stable, in the story that we all know so well.。
Will we journey to Jesus?。
I mean stop for a moment and think about the way that journey as a theme is so central。
to the original Christmas story.。
In fact, the whole story is presented to us as a journey.。
There we have Joseph and Mary in Nazareth having to take that journey from there all。
the way down to Bethlehem, a journey that would have taken them about three weeks, a。
journey that was difficult and challenging as a journey itself, but then add to the fact。
that Mary is heavily pregnant.。
And then when they arrive in Bethlehem, there's no room for them in any of the places and。
homes in that town, so suddenly they default into a stable.。
I mean that's a considerable journey.。
And then just as we've been singing in the First Noel hymn, the journey of course of。
the shepherds.。
They're in the fields, aren't they, standing there and suddenly this company of heavenly。
hosts opens up before him.。
And all of these angels begin to sing out that cry, "Glory, glory, glory to you.。
Glory to God on heaven."。
And the angels say, "Don't be afraid because I've got great news for you, that in Bethlehem。
one has been born who is the King of Israel."。
And the shepherds then have a choice.。
Do they take that great news, keep it to themselves and stay where they are or are they willing。
to take a journey?。
And for them, their journey is different to Joseph and Mary.。
Joseph and Mary's journey was dangerous.。
For the shepherds, their journey was sacrificial because they had to leave behind their sheep.。
They didn't have backup shepherds hiding just in the field over, calling the backup shepherds,。
look after the sheep whilst we go look at this baby.。
If they were going to take the journey to Jesus, they would have to leave their livelihood。
behind.。
That's a considerable sacrifice for them to make.。
And the story tells us that the shepherds leave behind their sheep, journey to Bethlehem。
and see the one who is being called the King of the Jews.。
And then also in the first Noel, we sung about the Magi, these wise men from afar who also。
take a journey, following that star that was in the sky every step of the way, traveling。
as the Bible tells us from a far away land, willing to go all of that distance to find。
the one that now is being declared the Messiah for the world, the Magi on a journey to Jesus.。
So the Christmas story is presented to us with a challenge.。
Are you going to be like Mary and Joseph, like the shepherds, like the Magi, will you。
journey towards Jesus?。
And if Christmas is a story of journey, every journey has a starting point and a destination.。
And in many ways, the Christmas story is presented to us in the Bible as the culmination, the。
end point of one journey and the beginning point of a brand new journey.。
Let me just talk to that real quick.。
The way that the birth of Jesus is brought to us in Scripture is presented to us as the。
culmination of everything that the Old Testament had taught and longed for.。
It was the full stop, the ending of the Old Testament story.。
And we know that story well.。
Adam and Eve created in the image of God, created in communion and relationship with。
God in the garden, and then sin entering into the conversation as Adam and Eve disobey and。
take the fruit of the tree that they were not allowed to take.。
And in the reality of that sin, they realize that they have broken their relationship with。
God and they hide from Him, ashamed of what they have done.。
But God in His mercy and His grace appears in the garden towards them and comes alongside。
of them despite the reality of the choices that they had made.。
And yet what we begin to see in the biblical picture early on is that there is now a separation。
to a degree between the intimacy that was found in the garden and the reality of what。
sin does between humanity and God.。
And really the Old Testament story is a story of a people wanting to get back into that。
relationship with God, but not understanding how to do it.。
Realizing that their sin consistently keeps them apart from the one that they want to。
be with.。
And what you see throughout the Old Testament journey is God not giving up on His people.。
God coming to appear to them in different ways.。
So you have Abraham who's called by God to leave his people behind and start a new nation.。
You've got God appearing to His people in the burning bush, Moses, having this intimate。
connection with Him.。
God, then up in a mountain far away, calling Moses to come up and be in the mountain face。
to face with Him.。
And this beautiful relationship that is formed there and the giving of the law and God's。
character to the world.。
And then God as that pillar of fire and as that movement throughout the Exodus journey。
where they go from the place of the desert into the promised land.。
And then God meeting them in the creation of the temple and His presence falling in。
the temple and bringing His glory to His people.。
The whole Old Testament narrative is God saying, "I long to be with you."。
But what you see every step of the way is that there is still a distance.。
There's still a separation.。
It doesn't really feel like God is with us in the fullness of what He could be.。
This doesn't feel like the intimacy of the garden.。
There's a bush burning.。
There's a mountain on fire.。
There's a temple with a curtain pulled before it.。
There's still somewhat of a separation.。
And as you get towards the end of the Old Testament, what the people are crying out。
for is that reconnection in a way that has never been felt before.。
And they begin to realize that the only way that connection could happen is if God Himself。
acted on their behalf.。
And so it's interesting because the prophets begin to speak of this day, this day when。
God will act, when He will come and do what He's never done before, where He will bring。
His intimacy to humanity like never before.。
And do you want to know how they begin to prophetically picture it?。
They begin to speak about a child, a poor, defenseless, vulnerable child.。
And they begin to picture that God is going to act one day to come to us in such intimacy,。
it'll be like He comes to us like a child.。
Isaiah says these words himself.。
He says, "Oh, the Virgin will be with a child and the Virgin will give birth to a son and。
we will call Him Emmanuel because it will be God with us."。
And then just a little bit later, he says these words.。
He says, "For the people right now, we're walking in darkness, but then there will be。
a great light on those living in the land of the shadow of death.。
Now a light has dawned."。
And he says, "For to us, a child will be born.。
To us, a son is given and the government will be on His shoulders and He will be called,"。
listen to this, "wonderful, counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.。
Of the increase of His power and peace, there will be no end.。
He will reign over David's throne and over his kingdom, establishing and upholding it。
with justice and righteousness.。
For the zeal of the Lord Almighty will accomplish this."。
The prophets begin to say, "A moment will happen.。
Just hold on a little bit longer.。
A moment will happen where it will be like God steps into this world like a child."。
And then for 400 years, there's silence.。
No prophets, no voices of hope, no nothing until this moment where the angels break open。
in the skies and speak to the shepherds and say, "This has happened.。
The day that you've been longing for has happened.。
I've got good news for you because in the town of Bethlehem, a Savior has been born。
to you."。
And the shepherds take that journey to meet with Jesus.。
The birth of Jesus absolutely is the end of a story, the end of the longing of God's people。
for God to act in a way that would save them from sin and release them back into intimacy。
with Him forever.。
That's the birth of Jesus.。
But as much as it is an end of a story, it is also the beginning of one.。
Because from this moment onwards, Jesus begins to redefine what humanity looks like.。
He begins to speak about a new era that has begun because of Him.。
He calls it the kingdom of God.。
And He begins to speak of the hope and the glory and the wonder of what it might be to。
be a new humanity caught up in this kingdom.。
He speaks about the fact that He will be able to forgive sin and that that brokenness that。
had separated humanity in the garden would be redeemed through Him and in relationship。
with Him.。
He had the audacity to forgive sin publicly, something that only God could do, establishing。
for His people His Messiahship and His divinity.。
And then the cross, the pain of death, and then the empty tomb, and the wonder of new。
life, and then the power of the Holy Spirit being poured out on God's people, and the。
story takes off.。
And from that moment onwards, every human being in history is invited into that story.。
The risen Jesus with forgiveness and glory and hope moving towards His people.。
Oh yes, Christmas is the story of God who has come to us.。
The question is, is it also a story of us going to Him?。
I want you to think about that for a moment and maybe reflect for yourself how you might。
feel this particular Christmas.。
Here on Christmas Eve, tomorrow as we celebrate Christmas Day, what journey are you on?。
Are you drawing near to Jesus?。
Maybe for some of you in this room, that's a brand new idea.。
Maybe someone's invited you to be here today, maybe a friend or a family member, and you're。
here and you're hearing about some of these things for the first time, or maybe this is。
one of the only times that you've ever set foot in a church.。
If that's the case, I want to encourage you that this Jesus who was born on the day that。
we're celebrating here tonight and tomorrow and the one who went to that cross and rose。
again is here for you, for your journey.。
And for some of you in this room, that journey is right at the start.。
Maybe you're thinking to yourself, "I want to know more about this.。
I want to be drawn towards this Jesus.。
I want to know the fullness of what human life could feel like.。
I recognize that my life's not quite how I want it to be."。
And if that's you, I want to encourage you this Christmas to just take one simple step。
toward that journey, to just say in the quietness of your heart even tonight, "Lord, if you're。
real, I'd love to get to know you.。
Would you reveal yourself to me?"。
I guarantee you that any time we ever pray that prayer to God, "God, would you reveal。
yourself to me?"。
He will never not answer that prayer.。
So maybe for some of you tonight, that's the first step of your journey.。
But I would imagine there's maybe others of us here tonight, and maybe you've been very。
close in relationship with Jesus in the past, but there's been a time where you've drifted.。
Maybe you recognize that there's now some distance between you and God.。
Maybe that's a distance that you've created, or maybe it's one that you feel like God has。
created.。
But for whatever reason, you feel like you're far from Him.。
It's not as in Him as it used to be.。
It feels like it's drifted.。
That's you, and I want to encourage you that this Christmas could be the start of a new。
journey for you as well, a journey where you take that step back towards Christ, and He。
will run towards you.。
That beautiful picture in the parable of the prodigal son, a father with his arms outstretched,。
running towards his son who is returning back to Him.。
Maybe for some of you tonight, that's the journey before you.。
But I would imagine for most of us here, if we are Christians, if we know Jesus, if He。
is our Lord and Savior, you might be thinking, "Well, what journey do I need to be on?"。
Let me tell you this.。
There is always something more of Jesus to be beheld.。
There's always something more of His love to be experienced, something more of His grace。
to be encountered.。
I want to say this also.。
I think, and I'll say this personally, there's always something more of me to give Him.。
I recognize that I haven't given Him my all at times, and sometimes I've held something。
back and not fully brought myself.。
There's always something more of Him to discover and always something more of me to give.。
So maybe for most of us, the journey this Christmas that is the challenge before you。
is are you willing to lean in that much more in your relationship with Jesus?。
Are you willing to pursue Him even more?。
Paul, writing to the church in Ephesus, would say, "My desire for you is that you would。
attain to the whole measure of the wholeness of Christ."。
There's always more.。
Will you come?。
So Christmas absolutely is a journey, and that journey is before all of us.。
God has moved towards us.。
The question for you is are you moving towards Him?。
Can I pray for us?。
Let's pray.。
Father, I thank You for the people here tonight.。
Those that are online watching, we are so grateful that we can gather around these carols。
and liturgy and Your Scripture tonight with this great hope that is found in the birth。
of Jesus.。
Lord, we come before You tonight grateful that You've stepped into our world, that in。
the incarnation of Christ, You've drawn near to us.。
What a gift.。
And Father, the challenge there for us to ask ourselves, are we drawing near to You?。
Lord, I want to pray for anyone here tonight where this might be the first time that they've。
heard such an idea.。
And maybe in their hearts tonight, they're saying, "Yeah, I don't know it all.。
I don't have all the answers.。
I'm not even sure if this is fully real, but I'm willing to give it a shot."。
God, would You reveal Yourself to me?。
Maybe for some of you, You can make that simple little prayer tonight.。
Father, I just ask that You would reveal Yourself more to me.。
Maybe if you've drifted a little bit tonight and you know that your relationship with Jesus。
is not what it used to be and not what you want it to be, you're also invited on a journey。
afresh to come to a Father who runs towards you, not in anger or not in punishment, but。
with open arms, putting that ring on your finger, that coat on your back, reinstating。
you to the fullness of a son and a daughter.。
So for some of you tonight, maybe your prayer is, "Lord, I'm here again, and I know I've。
been distant, but can we start again?。
I want to be with You again."。
And then finally, for those of us tonight where maybe we plateaued in our relationship。
with Jesus, where it's just become a thing that we've gotten used to, and we love Him,。
and we know that He loves us, but there's not any vibrancy.。
It's just kind of plateaued a little bit.。
My prayer for you tonight is that you would know the joy of rediscovery, the joy of finding。
afresh your relationship with Him.。
So Lord, I pray for anyone tonight where that is their journey tonight.。
Lord, would You reveal Yourself in even more glorious ways, and would the mystery of You。
forever be in front of them?。
So Lord, whatever it might be, thank You for coming to us.。
We now come to You.。
We pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, "Amen."。
