day of seminary I met Laughing Jesus. He was hanging awkwardly on the side of a。
cluttered cork notice board surrounded by handwritten notices trying to sell。
textbooks and rusted bicycles. I sat next to Laughing Jesus for about an hour and a。
half before I even realized he was there. I can be a little bit like that with。
Jesus. Laughing Jesus was this pencil drawing of Jesus, the kind of drawing I。
had never encountered before. In fact I want to show you the exact drawing. It。
was that one there. Now undoubtedly this was Jesus. I mean it looked like Jesus,。
right? I mean he's got that unkempt beard, he's got that kind of long flowing hair.。
He's a little bit more Middle Eastern looking than I was used to but I was at。
seminary so there you go. It wasn't actually kind of how he looked that kind。
of caught my eye. It was what he was doing that caught my eye. Jesus was。
laughing and not just kind of like you know like oh that's a that's kind of a。
nice antidote. Like he's like laughing laughing, right? Like either Jesus has。
just told a great joke to the disciples and he's like you're like that to them。
or maybe someone's told Jesus a great joke and he's laughing alongside of them。
with that great joke. And as I stared at this as I was sitting there in my first。
class at seminary on the very first day I felt an emotion rising up inside of me.。
An emotion towards Jesus I had not felt before and after a while I was able to。
name that emotion. Laughing Jesus offended me. He offended me because as I looked at。
that picture I noticed that the artist had captured Jesus in a misrepresented。
way. Because the Jesus I knew was far too serious to laugh like that. The Jesus I。
knew was here on earth doing a very sober mission. Where he had come to to。
heal people who were blind to cast out demons. He had he had come to listen and。
obey his father. He had come to teach the things he needed to teach. He had come to。
be obedient to death. Jesus was not laughing about any of that. No sirree. As。
I as I looked at this more and more I was like this is not the Jesus that I。
understand. I thought about all the jokes that would make me laugh like this and I。
realized none of them were holy. Are you with me church? And I realized that this。
is a Jesus that didn't fit the frameworks for Jesus that I had. Not not。
the the pious divine sitting on the throne kind of Jesus that I had met when。
I was a youth. Not the powerful sovereign almighty Jesus that I had followed in my。
20s. This was certainly not the more chilled out calm relaxed justice loving。
Jesus that I had followed in my 30s. The reality was laughing Jesus was simply a。
Jesus I didn't know. Now I don't know about you but as Christians when we're。
encountered by a version of Jesus that we don't know we tend to as Christians。
have a default towards skepticism. Now on the one side there's a healthiness to。
that. Oftentimes yesterday's skepticism is today's wisdom. But I think there's a。
worrying trend that we have in the church. That when we see something new of。
Jesus or we hear about something new of Jesus we kind of have that reaction like。
I had on the first day of seminary. There's skepticism. We draw back. We're。
like this isn't the kind of Jesus that I was aware of and I don't know what to do。
with this Jesus. And oftentimes our response is a little bit like the people。
in Bethlehem. I don't think there's room in the inn for that Jesus. And as I was。
looking at this I realized one of the reasons why he offended me so much. It。
was because the artist had captured a moment of Jesus in his most human-ness.。
Now I understood because I was at seminary that the incarnation meant that。
God was fully God and fully human at the same time that Jesus in this。
incarnation brought all that together. I understood theoretically and。
theologically about that. But when I was encountered by a moment of his。
humanness it annoyed me. And it annoyed me because I could see that the artist。
was trying to say this is also Jesus. The human Jesus. The one who's like at a。
barbecue cracking jokes with his buddies. And I realized that the reason why this。
offended me was because that wasn't the Jesus I needed. I didn't need a Jesus to。
be a buddy with me at the barbecue. I needed Jesus to save my soul from the。
brokenness and the sin that I was carrying. I needed a Jesus in other words。
that wasn't like me. I intentionally needed a Jesus that wasn't like me. Are。
you with me? Like I wanted Jesus that was different from me because I knew who I。
was. And I knew that my human-ness meant X, Y, and Z. I could see the frailties in。
me. The insecurities I carried. The sin that was so prevalent in me. I didn't。
want to worship a Jesus that was like me. I wanted to worship a Jesus that was so。
different from me. Transcendent from my human-ness. Able to rise above those。
emotions. Rise above that sin and that brokenness. And save me powerfully. So I。
had constructed a version of Jesus that I needed. And when I was encountered with。
a version of Jesus that as much as him as anything else because it's not the。
one that I needed it was easy for me to reject him. Hmm. I wanted Jesus to be。
superhuman not simply human. I think one of the main reasons why we fail to make。
room in our hearts for more of Jesus is because the room that we have。
constructed in our hearts fits only the Jesus that we want. Not necessarily the。
Jesus that is. The Jesus of our own making. The Jesus of our own construction.。
The Jesus that fits comfortably to what I need him to be. The Jesus that can。
save what is going on in my life. The Jesus that feels good to me. And when。
Jesus kind of comes to us and reveals a part of himself that that we hadn't。
encountered before rather than open ourselves up more for that reality of。
Jesus we so often shut him down push him out and tell him that there's no room in。
the end. The wrestle that we have to do is that one of the greatest limitations。
and barriers to discipleship for us Christians is I think the limitations we。
place on on our thinking about Jesus and we stay shut away from fresh ways of。
thinking and reflecting and embracing the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords。
and so when Jesus shows up and reveals something that's different to the shape。
that we had created for him to fit in and we suddenly realize that he doesn't。
fit anymore the nice neat shape that I had created for him rather than change。
my shape I change him. Come on church. I fit him into the shape that I've made。
for him rather than expand my heart I shrink his divinity down to me. If we。
want to make more room for Jesus we must first dethrone the Jesus we make. Come on。
church. We want to make more room for Jesus we need to first dethrone the。
Jesus that we have constructed the Jesus that fits nice to us the Jesus that。
serves us and we need to begin to think and experience and encounter the Jesus。
who really is. It is this challenge that Luke in presenting the birth narrative。
of Jesus finishes his Christmas story with. He finishes with a story that。
challenges how we come to think about the Messiah. I want to read this to you。
from Luke chapter 2 this is the final chapter of you will to his Christmas。
narrative and I want to pick it up in verse 22 of chapter 2 in Luke. When the。
time of their purification according to the law of Moses had been completed。
Joseph and Mary took him to Jerusalem to present him before the Lord. The time of。
purification according to the law of Moses was about 40 days so we reckon。
here Jesus is about 40 to 45 days old as Mary and Joseph bring him to the temple.。
As it is written in the law of the Lord every firstborn male is to be。
consecrated to the Lord and to offer a sacrifice in keeping with what is said。
in the law of the Lord a pair of doves and two young pigeons. Now there was a。
man in Jerusalem called Simeon who was righteous and devout. He was waiting for。
the consolation of Israel and the Holy Spirit was upon him. It had been revealed。
to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not die before he had seen the Lord's。
Christ. What a beautiful promise. Moved by the spirit he went into the temple。
courts and when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him which was。
custom to the Lord required Simeon took him in his arms. I wonder if the parents。
freaked out about that by the way. Like you know that's kind of weird it's like。
they're walking in with the baby and Simeon sweeps the child off of their。
arms into his hands. Scary kind of moment. And Simeon took him in his arms and。
praised God by saying this, "Sovereign Lord as you have promised you can now。
dismiss your servant in peace. For my eyes have seen your salvation which you。
have prepared in the sight of all the people. A light for revelation to the。
Gentiles and for the glory of your people Israel." The child's father and。
mother marveled at what was said about him. Yeah as Luke draws this story to a。
close he starts by, he's a master storyteller by the way, he starts by。
telling you a picture of this beautiful pious religious couple Mary and Joseph.。
He paints them as religious and devout as adhering to all of the Old Testament。
law that was responsible and requiring for them to do the things that they do.。
So he tells you that they go to the temple on about 40 days of Jesus' birth,。
they've purified themselves as was according to the law of Moses, they then。
come and do three things in the temple. The first was a further purification of。
themselves by bringing a sacrifice of either a lamb or the doves, most likely。
pigeons for them as they were of the poorer class. Then they would take Jesus。
and present him before the priests which is what was right to do for a firstborn。
son. Then they would offer another sacrifice as they dedicate their child。
to the service of the Lord. So Luke is presenting to us a story where this。
religious and devout couple do what was required of them in the Old Testament。
law. He wants you to see that they're adhering to all of the scriptures, all of。
the things that have been taught in Moses, all of the things that the Old。
Testament had suggested. Here's Mary and Joseph doing it right. They are operating。
within the framework that they understood at the time and Luke wants。
you to understand the irony of this. It's ironic because the very child that they。
are now dedicating to the service of the Lord is going to be the one who will。
grow up and actually break the box that had been created. So here's Mary and。
Joseph living within this box of here's how we should do things according to the。
law of Moses and their child, the very one they're dedicating, is going to be the。
one that is going to inaugurate a new wine through a new wineskin. One who's。
going to bring the kingdom of God who's not going to abolish that law but。
fulfill it and fulfill it in ways that they never expected him to do. He's going。
to come and say look what you're doing on the Sabbath right now is wrong. You're。
so caught up in the law you've forgotten grace. He's going to say some pretty。
strong things to the rulers and the teachers and the Pharisees of the law.。
He's going to do stuff where people will stand back and go no Messiah would ever。
do this and he's going to stand before the people and say if you've got ears。
you're going to be able to hear. If you've got eyes you're going to be able。
to see me. He's going to disrupt all of the things that Mary and Joseph are。
adhering to so perfectly and Luke's like watch what happens next.。
And God always in these moments where there's something significant shaping。
history loves to break in and bring a change and God decides that this is the。
moment where he's going to proclaim something about his son publicly before。
all of Israel and he does so by doing how he always did it through the Old。
Testament by filling the spirit into a man who is a prophet of his people。
before his people. We are introduced to this man by the name of Simeon in verses。
25 and 26. Notice how Luke describes him. It says in verse 25, "Now there was a man。
in Jerusalem called Simeon who was righteous and devout. He was waiting for。
the consolation of Israel and the Holy Spirit was upon him." That's a pretty darn。
good resume by the way. "The Holy Spirit was upon him. It had been revealed to him。
by the Holy Spirit that he would not die before he had seen the Lord's Christ." Can。
you imagine what this was like sometime in Simeon's life and we don't know when。
it happened. The Holy Spirit had told him somehow maybe through a dream maybe in。
another way that he would with his own eyes see the Messiah for himself. You can。
imagine how exciting that must have been for Simeon. I'm gonna finally see this。
this long for. Remember the Jewish people have been praying for 400 years up to。
this point for this coming Messiah and the Lord said by his spirit to Simeon。
you're not gonna die before you see this. Now he was probably quite young at the。
time. He's like good I'm not prepared to die right now. That's good thing and。
maybe every day he went into the temple courts every day scanning the children。
that were being brought in for these ceremonies which happened every day and。
he's praying and going Lord is it this one Lord is it that one Lord I hope it's。
not that one and whatever right like he's like looking he's like looking at。
these kids and he's trying to work out like which one is which and no Messiah。
and so he goes home every day. Can you imagine what it would have felt like to。
have a promise of the Lord spoken into your spirit holding to that promise。
going every day believing that that promise is going to be fulfilled that。
day and then returning home realizing that the promise hasn't come through and。
Luke describes him as faithful, devout, holding on despite the long wait and we。
don't know how long that wait is but we know now that he's very old because the。
first thing he says when the Holy Spirit thought of he's like oh finally I can。
now die but really what he's saying is the culmination of the promise has come。
this idea shakes a few things up for us I think because Luke is described as。
faithful and obedient and yet the promise hasn't come through yet which I。
think teaches us a very important lesson that faithfulness and obedience to the。
Lord does not mean an easy life. It doesn't mean that suddenly all the。
answers are going to come it doesn't mean that immediately the promise will。
be revealed it doesn't even mean that the promise will come through in our。
timing in our preference in the nice little neat box that we have created for。
it sometimes being faithful and obedient means having to wait and if that。
encourages you maybe challenges you well good news in January we're actually。
gonna do a whole series on Psalm 27 I'm really excited about it we're gonna be。
talking about this season of waiting that many of us wrestle with and what we。
can learn and encounter in that season so I'm not going to talk more about that。
now but I want to say this that it's often in those longer seasons like it。
was for Simeon who faithfully every day showed up and faithfully went home and。
said I guess it's gonna be tomorrow and he came back the next day and he went。
home and then on this day everything changed so often God breaks in when。
things are the bleakest when they are the darkest when they are the coldest。
where it feels like he's the furthest away sometimes it's when we're in the。
valley of the shadow of death that he shows up breaks in brings a word makes a。
change and here's a moment for Simeon where he didn't know it was gonna be。
this day and the way to be long and things have been hard but God breaks in。
and that is the message of Christmas and the whole birth of Jesus is God。
breaking into the bleak dark coldness of this world with new lived hope I want。
to invite you to reflect around that idea of God breaking in and we're gonna。
do that through listening to another Carol from our worship team and they're。
gonna sing this over us as they do so the lyrics will be on the screen behind。
and I want you to read the lyrics and and reflect on the lyrics in relation to。
what I've been teaching with you so far and and this beautiful idea that God can。
break in to those moments that seem the bleakest let's take a look。
you。
you。
you。
[ Music ]。
In the bleak midwinter, frosty wind made moan.。
Earth stood hard as iron, water like a stone.。
Snow had fallen, snow on snow, snow on snow.。
In the bleak midwinter long ago.。
Heaven cannot hold him, nor earth sustain.。
Heaven and earth shall flee away when he comes to reign.。
In the bleak midwinter, stable place survives.。
Lord God Almighty, Jesus Christ.。
What can I give him, poor as I am?。
If I were a shepherd, I would bring the lamb.。
If I were a wise man, I would do my part.。
What I can I give him, give my heart.。
What can I give him, give my heart.。
I love that final line or the final stanza of the hymn.。
Let me read it to you one more time.。
What can I give him, as poor as I am?。
If I were a shepherd, I would bring a lamb.。
If I were a wise man, I would do my part.。
What I can give him, is I can give him my heart.。
Beautiful message of Christmas there, but I think also leaning into what Luke is trying to say to us in the passage we're looking at this morning.。
We are to give Jesus our heart.。
The challenge is, what heart are you giving him?。
Is it a heart that's big enough to receive all that he is?。
Or a heart so small that you're expecting him to reduce himself to you?。
It is this that basically Simeon is filled with as he speaks out over Israel.。
Let me read to you one more time these words that Simeon prophesies over Jesus and the people in the temple.。
He says, "Sovereign Lord, as you have promised, you can now dismiss your servant in peace.。
For my eyes have indeed seen your salvation, which you have prepared in the sight of all the people.。
A light for revelation to the Gentiles and a glory to your people Israel."。
It's beautiful to me that Simeon filled with the Spirit comes and says something that actually the Jewish people were not expecting.。
If we step back from the moment and just look at the history that leads us to it.。
As I said earlier, that there's been a 400 year waiting period for this moment.。
400 years where the last prophecy in Malachi in the Old Testament to this moment where Simeon prophesies in the temple.。
That's a long period of time.。
And during that time the Jewish people had constructed for themselves this Messiah that they were longing to come.。
And they had thought about what is it that they want this Messiah to be when he does arrive.。
And the three primary focuses for the Jewish people in the first century as they prayed and longed for the Messiah were this.。
Number one, that when the Messiah comes the Romans will be pushed away.。
The oppression that we're under, under the Romans would finish and the Romans would rule us no more.。
Number two, when the Messiah comes sin will be suddenly dealt with.。
It'll be like an apocalyptic moment where the world will be changed in an instant and sin will be no more.。
And when the Messiah comes we the Jewish people would have our rightful place again.。
We're ruling here in the world with our right land and our right context.。
So this idea of Romans be gone, sin be gone.。
And for us to have a place of power and leadership for ourselves once again.。
This was what was wrapped up in the desire for the Messiah.。
Now think also this is the first moment that the Messiah is proclaimed publicly in Israel.。
Remember the angels had come and proclaimed the Messiah over the shepherds.。
And the shepherds had gone to see Jesus in the stable.。
The star had shone in the sky which enabled the Magi to journey towards Jesus bringing their gifts.。
And able to do that before him in the stable.。
But 40 days later this is the first time that God decides to make a public announcement about the Messiah.。
And who the Messiah is and he's doing that announcement in the very center of what the Jewish culture and religious culture.。
And religious sort of hub was of the day right there in the temple.。
And notice what God by his spirit inspires Simeon to say first.。
The first thing that comes out of his mouth is this.。
This Messiah is a light of revelation to the Gentiles.。
You can almost imagine you could have heard a pin drop in that room.。
This is the temple.。
This is the seat of Jewish power.。
This is where they've been longing and praying and hoping for.。
And there's Simeon and the first thing he says is you want to know who the Messiah is.。
You want to know what this Jesus is.。
He's going to be a light of revelation to the Gentiles.。
Isn't that great?。
And you can imagine the people standing around him saying whoa hang on hang on a sec.。
The Gentiles, the ones who rule over us, the ones who are oppressing us.。
This one is going to be a light of revelation to them.。
That doesn't sound like grace.。
It's funny isn't it? Grace is only ever amazing when it's grace for us.。
When we find out that grace is for our enemy, for our oppressor, for the one who has enslaved us.。
You're telling me that the Messiah, this is the first thing.。
Notice God here.。
This is the first thing that's announced to the Jewish power and authority and the priests and the people.。
That Jesus is going to be the Messiah that you did not expect.。
You thought the Messiah was going to push away the Gentiles.。
You thought this was all about your re-enthronement.。
No no no, the Messiah, yes there's going to be glory to Israel which is what he says second.。
But the first thing he says is here's what you need to know about Jesus.。
Because if you don't know this about Jesus, Jewish people, you're going to miss him completely.。
He's coming to show grace and mercy and love and revelation and bring change to the ones that you currently hate.。
I mean talk about God breaking open some boxes that his people had put Jesus in.。
Oh it needs to look like this.。
God says the first thing you need to know, it's going to look nothing like you thought it was going to look.。
And if you don't realize it now, you're going to completely miss out.。
It's interesting because Jesus then in his ministry, as he begins to inaugurate the kingdom of God,。
as he begins to show that through the miracles he does, as he begins to do that through the teaching that he does,。
often in parables, he would end those teachings saying if you have ears to hear, let him hear.。
If you can see with eyes, let you see.。
In other words, I am here, I'm the Messiah, I'm the fullness of what you've ever had.。
But it looks different to the thing that you have created me for.。
And unless you are enabled to expand what you thought and embrace the new, you're going to completely miss out.。
This is why Jesus, when he's standing over Jerusalem at the end of his ministry,。
and the triumphal entry, looking over the temple as well up on the hill,。
he says in the final five days of his life, he's looking at that temple and he says this.。
He says, "If only you knew who it was that was coming to you now, the Prince of Peace coming to you."。
But he says, "It is hidden from you.。
You put me in a box and you're refusing to accept me if I don't fit into your box."。
But guess what? It's not about me fitting into your box.。
It's about your box getting smashed.。
This is the prophetic word to Israel right at the inauguration of Jesus' dedication in the temple.。
"Your box that you have placed me in, if you do not smash that box, you will miss out."。
In other words, it was almost like God was saying, "You are not prepared, Israel, for the receiving of the Messiah."。
And I'm bringing a prophetic word through Simeon to you right now.。
That if you can hear it, if you can open your heart to it, you will see Jesus bigger.。
You will see your Messiah far bigger and far grander than you could ever see him.。
He is more glorious, more powerful, more saving, more loving, more graceful, more merciful than you had ever thought he was.。
He is going to be an even greater glory to Israel if you would just let him out of your box.。
It's like he's kind of wanting to take a hammer.。
I'm going to do this for you. I'm going to move this out of the way.。
It's like he wants to take a hammer to this box and do this.。
No, I'm not going to do that. It's my wife's.。
This is my wife's jewelry box, okay?。
She's currently on holiday in New Zealand. She would be very upset if I smashed her jewelry box.。
But that's, it's like you need glasses in the front row.。
But that's essentially what God is doing through Simeon to Israel in this moment.。
And I want to say a couple of things to us today in connection to that.。
Number one, I don't think it's just Israel that puts Jesus in a box.。
I think we all have the tendency to do it.。
Number two, in the same way that I think Simeon was this prophetic declaration to Israel,。
you are not yet prepared for the Messiah that is coming.。
And if you don't get ready, you're going to miss.。
I want to say this boldly to some of you in this room, and this will resonate with some of you.。
You are not yet prepared for the Jesus of 2026 in your life.。
And you need to break him out of the box you placed him in.。
Otherwise, you will miss out on all the things that he might have for you in 2026.。
You see, we place Jesus in boxes all the time in our life.。
I think we have the box of limitations, where we limit the power of Jesus down,。
and we say, "I don't think Jesus could touch that part of my life.。
I don't think he could heal me of that. I don't think he could address that situation in my life."。
"It's been a long time. Nothing's ever happened. I just don't think he can do it."。
Boxes of limitations.。
We have boxes of experience.。
"Well, Jesus has never done that for me."。
"Oh, he might have done that for you. That's good. That's nice. That's your testimony, but that's not my experience."。
And we limit the power of Jesus in our lives, and we place him in a box because of our experience of him.。
I think we have boxes of culture.。
"Oh, this is how I do things. This is how my people do things.。
This is the way of our culture, and Jesus doesn't fit to that culture,。
and I think we need to shift Jesus and make him look a little bit more like us,。
rather than make myself look more like him."。
And Jesus comes and gives us the culture of the kingdom of God,。
one that can be seen and flourishing in all cultures in this world,。
but one that needs to be a new culture for each one.。
Or perhaps we have boxes of theology.。
"Oh, yeah. Oh, this is how I know Jesus is.。
I mean, I've read the scriptures. This is it. I know it. It's like this.。
It's a tight little thing like this."。
And sometimes our theological boxes can actually contain him down,。
rather than keep him mysterious and marvelous and amazing.。
Simeon speaks out a bold word to his people.。
He's going to be the light of revelation to the Gentiles.。
"You need to open your box," he's saying. "Smash it. Change it.。
Jesus is different."。
This is why Paul, when he writes to the church in Ephesus, chapter 3, says,。
"Jesus, this one, is able to do immeasurably more than you could ever ask or imagine."。
Don't limit him down. He can do immeasurably more.。
"So that his glory would be seen in Christ Jesus and in the church," he says.。
And there's Jesus himself ministering to the people,。
constantly challenging the boxes that they place the Messiah in,。
constantly challenging the old traditions and laws that have hemmed him in,。
and constantly standing before the people and saying, "I'm with you now.。
Come and see and taste all of you who are weary and burdened.。
Come to me and I will give you rest.。
I am bigger and more grander and more powerful than you have created the box for me to be.。
Smash your box."。
And I can't think of a more important word as we finish 2025 and as we move into 2026。
that God would stand over you today, maybe with the same prophetic utterance,。
and say, "You've placed me too much in a box.。
I am far bigger than how you currently see me.。
Are you willing to open your eyes?。
For those who have eyes, let them see, and those who have ears, let them hear."。
Can I pray for you? Let's pray.。
Father, we are humbled by this beautiful part of the Christmas story,。
where the very first utterance publicly over Israel is to say,。
"This Savior is the Savior for the ones that you do not want to have a Savior."。
This Messiah is big enough to offer love and mercy and forgiveness。
to even those who you consider your enemies.。
The grace is so much bigger than you thought.。
And Father, I want to pray for each of us as we finish off 2025 and prepare ourselves for 2026.。
As this week on Wednesday and Thursday, we celebrate the arrival of Jesus.。
Lord, we want to go into that process aware of the boxes that we placed you in,。
where we've limited you because of our experience or our culture or our theology.。
Because we try to sort you out and create a nice, neat little box for you to fit in.。
And Lord, I do believe that there are people in this room who are not yet prepared。
for the incredible things that you want to do in their lives in the year ahead.。
And you're saying, "Would you smash the box?。
Would you open your heart more?。
Would you not be so skeptical?。
Would you believe that I am grander and bigger than you've ever thought?。
That I am immeasurably more than you could ever ask or imagine?。
And I am that for you.。
And this is not about you changing me to fit your comfortable life.。
It's about me challenging you to change you to walk into the best life.。
So Holy Spirit, I want to pray for anyone in this room where this message is resonating with them.。
As we're in this transition time between one year to the next.。
Father, as a church community, we want to move, Lord,。
into the year with no more boxes, no more limitations.。
Nothing limited by experience or culture or theology,。
but an openness in spirit and heart for more of you.。
Would you be a light of revelation to us, the Gentiles in this room?。
Would you reveal yourself in grander and bigger ways than we could ever have imagined?。
And may our worship of you expand beyond what my heart currently says about you.。
Would you show me things about you that would set my heart on fire, Lord?。
I am not satisfied with the Jesus I currently know.。
As grateful as I am for it, would you be more, Lord?。
Would you open me to fresh wind, new wine?。
Would you make in me a new wineskin?。
And would it be for your glory?。
We pray this in Jesus' name.。
Would you stand with me as we respond together as a community in worship?。
[MUSIC]。
