Amazing, amazing.。
Well, welcome to The Vine once again.。
We're so glad that you're with us.。
It's something that we've been sensing as a leadership,。
this pastoral presence of the Holy Spirit with us.。
And I think we felt that really deeply this morning.。
I know that we're going to continue to feel that deeply。
as I invite Susanna to come and to be with us.。
And I'm going to need to grab this.。
Can we stretch out our hands?。
Susanna will be familiar to many of us here at The Vine,。
but if you're relatively new,。
Susanna is one of our elders here at the church.。
We have an amazing group of men and women that lead this church spiritually。
and govern this church diligently.。
Susanna has been doing that, I don't know what it is,。
nine years or something like that.。
And she's been an incredible blessing to Chris and I and to I know many of you.。
And she has a real pastoral gift.。
And I know that what's on her heart today is important to all of us.。
I'm going to show up and pray for you in Jesus' name.。
Let's pray.。
Father, we just thank you so much for Susanna Glenn, the kids,。
for the mantle of authority that is placed upon Susanna here at The Vine,。
her pastoral gift to teach and to share out of what you've done in her life.。
Lord, we open up our hearts to all that you have to say to us today。
through Psalm 27.。
We thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
Good morning.。
I get the privilege of continuing this series on waiting.。
And today we're looking at the gift of waiting, pursuit, and presence.。
And we're going to continue to explore Psalm 27 and we're going to focus in。
on verses four to six today.。
One thing I ask from the Lord, this only do I seek,。
that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life,。
to gaze on the beauty of the Lord and to seek him in his temple.。
For in the day of trouble he will keep me safe in his dwelling.。
He will hide me in the shelter of his sacred tent and set me high upon a rock.。
Then my head will be exalted above the enemies who surround me.。
At his sacred tent I will sacrifice with shouts of joy.。
I will sing and make music to the Lord.。
Three weeks ago a friend of mine invited me to a float experience.。
You enter a large -- you can see up here a picture of it.。
You enter a large domed futuristic capsule which is filled with warm water。
that has an extremely high concentration of Epsom salts diluted in it.。
The pod has a lid.。
You enter.。
You lie down.。
You shut the lid.。
And when you lay down, you are very buoyant because of the Epsom salts。
that are diluted in the water.。
And then you float for an hour in complete darkness and quiet.。
Some of you who are claustrophobic are going, "Oh, I can't think of anything else."。
There's nothing to distract you.。
There's nothing to do but wait.。
And so knowing I was going to speak today on the topic of waiting,。
I started a conversation with God.。
And I said, "What's the deal with waiting?。
Why is it so important?"。
I feel like I'm a true Hong Konger now having said those questions.。
What's the deal with waiting?。
Why is it so important?。
This is what I heard in response to my questions.。
We wait for what we value.。
We pursue what we value.。
Andrew said in week one that in this world no one likes to wait.。
So when we do choose to wait to actively lean in, it's for something we truly value.。
God reminded me of a recent moment after church, my family and I,。
we went to Samson Restaurant.。
We wanted to have Thai food for lunch.。
But when we got there, there was a big - you know what it is, right?。
A big queue, a big line.。
Because it has incredible Thai food and everybody knows it.。
We joined the line and we started waiting, anticipating the yummy food that we would have.。
But after a few minutes of not moving at all。
and looking at the long stretch of people in front of us,。
we decided to leave.。
We crossed the road, we entered a building, we went up a flight of stairs。
and we went into another Thai restaurant.。
There was no wait.。
There was plenty of tables.。
And very soon we had food on the table and we were eating.。
However, there was a price to us not waiting.。
I've eaten the food of Samson's before and I can tell you it is really good.。
And I've now eaten the food of this other Thai place.。
And the food was nowhere near as good.。
It filled us up, but it was nowhere near as good.。
And God said to me, "Susanna, when you lose sight of the value of something, you stop waiting.。
And you start to pursue quicker alternative substitutes.。
Alternative routes even that are not as good.。
You settle for lesser versions."。
Andrew spoke to us recently about how many of us had created lesser versions of Jesus.。
You know, the Jesus that kind of fits with our worldview,。
that makes us feel comfortable and doesn't challenge us to change.。
This is what happens when we don't wait on Jesus.。
Lying in that pod, I felt convicted that I had lost sight of the value of Jesus.。
Lost sight of the value of actively slowing down and waiting.。
And by losing sight of the value of waiting for Jesus, my life was being filled up with substitutes.。
I was pursuing lesser things.。
God gave me a taste in that pod of what it's like when we truly wait.。
He reminded me of my worth.。
He realigned my identity to match how he saw me.。
He encouraged me to believe in the more.。
You see, when we have a lesser version of Jesus,。
we get contained because it's like we put him in this box that we can handle.。
And what also gets contained is your creativity, your belief,。
your understanding of what he's capable of doing.。
And the real Jesus that I encountered in the waiting in that pod,。
he blew out the edges of my dreaming.。
And anticipation for the future was reignited in me.。
Waiting is for our benefit.。
Psalm 103, 14 says, "For he knows our frame.。
He remembers that we are dust."。
God compassionately understands us.。
He created us.。
He understands our limitations and our frailties.。
This verse, he remembers that we are dust.。
It makes me smile because dust gets everywhere.。
It flies off in every direction.。
It swirls.。
It clings to things it shouldn't.。
Have you ever run your finger across something in your home and gone,。
"Ugh, how did dust get here?"。
It makes me smile because it's such an accurate depiction of us.。
Yes, God made us from the dust, but the way we live in this modern world,。
with our scattered thoughts, our constant movement, our distractions,。
our connection and clinging to things that we shouldn't.。
God knows this about us and he whispers, "Be still."。
Be still and know me.。
Stop rushing and pursuing lesser things.。
The waiting is for our benefit.。
The first thing that waiting does is realign us to the one thing that's needed.。
"One thing I ask from the Lord," David says, "this only do I seek,。
that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life,。
to gaze on the beauty of the Lord, to seek him."。
We wait for and pursue the things we value.。
Does the value we carry in our hearts for God's presence match David's in this verse?。
What are you willing to wait for?。
As I was thinking about this, I remembered my husband.。
Every time one of my children or I travel overseas,。
he always comes and he waits at the airport to pick us up.。
Every time.。
No exception.。
Doesn't matter if we come in on a midnight flight, six in the morning, he's there.。
And it made me realise he values us.。
He wants us to know that we're important to him.。
We wait for what we value.。
Just have a look at these verses.。
Psalm 2714, "Wait for the Lord, be strong, let your heart take courage, wait for the Lord."。
Lamentations 325, "The Lord is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him."。
Isaiah 3018, "Therefore the Lord waits to be gracious to you.。
Therefore he exalts himself to show mercy to you.。
For the Lord is a God of justice and blessed are all those who wait for him."。
Isaiah 64, "For from of old no one has heard or perceived by the ear, no eye has seen a God besides you, who acts for those who wait for him."。
Do we value God enough to wait?。
Andrew has said in a previous sermon that waiting is not passive.。
It's active.。
Waiting is an active process of preparation.。
The second thing that waiting does is it strengthens our resolve for future challenges.。
By deepening our awareness and intimacy with the one who shares the waiting with us.。
Listen to these verses of David again.。
"One thing I ask from the Lord, this only do I seek, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life.。
To gaze on the beauty of the Lord, to seek him in his temple.。
For in the day of trouble he will keep me safe.。
He will hide me and set me high upon a rock."。
Waiting, actively seeking God's presence, spending time in the temple prepares David for the day of trouble.。
The waiting actively prepares David.。
The waiting time teaches him that he can hope in God's timing and his safety.。
David is able to anticipate and speak confidently that when the day of trouble comes, he declares that he can trust God.。
He declares he will not be alone.。
He declares that the God he's experienced in the waiting, he will keep me safe.。
He will hide me.。
He will set me high.。
Waiting gives us the answers we need for future challenges.。
It teaches us to trust in God's timing and prepares us for the uncharted and the unknown.。
Many years ago, my family was living in Darwin, Australia.。
I was working as a substitute teacher and also working for a Christian NGO that was working into China.。
And we began to feel challenged that we were meant to relocate to Hong Kong to deepen our work with this NGO.。
At the time, we had four young kids and we didn't have enough resources to transition our entire family overseas.。
Nevertheless, we began to speak and share as if we were going.。
A miracle happened when someone we hardly knew heard of our story.。
And when I say we hardly knew him, I'm not exaggerating.。
My husband has this gift and I see it in him all the time.。
He notices people on the fringes.。
Do you know what I mean?。
The people on the edges who don't quite fit in.。
And the church we were going to in Darwin, he noticed a young man who used to slip in sort of late and slip out early.。
And so my husband tracked him down and invited him for coffee.。
And in that sharing, this man asked what we were doing and Glenn shared, "Oh, we're planning to go to Hong Kong.。
We want to work for this Christian NGO."。
And this young man said to Glenn, "Oh, give me your banking details.。
I'd like to give you something towards that."。
So Glenn did.。
The next day, I remember Glenn rushing to me and saying, "Babe, look at this."。
And he showed me on the computer our bank balance.。
And this young man had deposited $25,000 Australian dollars into our bank account.。
So we packed up from Darwin.。
We travelled back to Queensland.。
Queensland is where we are from.。
And we were planning to go there to say our goodbyes to families, to wrap up loose ends and wait for our visas.。
And we began to wait.。
And we waited.。
And we waited some more.。
And we kept on waiting.。
We had four kids.。
I was trying to homeschool them.。
Yeah, all you kids, all you people with kids are going, "Ooh."。
We were moving every few weeks from this parent's home to that parent's home.。
And when I say that, there's four hours between those parents' home of travel.。
We were going to people's farms.。
We slept on mattresses on concrete floors.。
Weeks turned into months.。
I remember it got to eight months and there was still no sign of visas.。
It's at moments like this in the waiting that we can struggle to feel God's presence.。
And the wait can make us feel like he's distant or maybe even absent.。
And these moments offer us a choice.。
Do we lean in?。
Or do we lean out?。
And I chose to lean in.。
I remember going into the downstairs bathroom of my parent's house, shutting the door.。
When you have kids, you know that this is one of the few places you can go to to escape.。
And I remember silently screaming out my frustrations to God, wrestling with him.。
"If you've called us, why?。
Why are we experiencing this?。
How long, God?。
How long?"。
And I remember saying to him, "I can't take this anymore.。
You're going to have to do something."。
I remember that the next week the visas came through.。
We were able to book our tickets and come.。
I don't know all the reasons for the waiting.。
But I can tell you that God's timing was perfect.。
Our landlords, they came and picked us up from the airport.。
I don't know what Hong Kong landlords do, but...。
It's rare. Very rare.。
They came in a little green minivan and they picked us all up.。
They took us to the house.。
They had set up the house so that we had enough furniture and appliances...。
...so that we could start living in it straight away without having to race out to shops and get things.。
And they had included toys for the kids.。
Later on we were to discover that they attended a Seventh-day Adventist church.。
And God had...just when they had heard our story...。
...because we had met through this random Craigslist. They'd put their house on Craigslist at the time.。
It was so weird. But Glenn had found it.。
And, you know, they'd asked why we were coming and we shared.。
And they said when they heard it they just knew.。
They had to be a part of our story.。
I guess because of all the transition the children had experienced in those eight months...。
...of constant movement, they immediately settled.。
They immediately were at peace in our new home. I can't describe it.。
It was just like they'd lived there forever.。
And our five-year-old who'd been waking every night since she'd been born...。
...waking us multiple times and getting up to all sorts of mischief in the night.。
She slept through from her first night in Hong Kong.。
And she never woke again through the night.。
The waiting prepares you in ways you don't even know you need.。
The waiting forces you to trust if you let it.。
On the day of trouble you know...。
...you intimately know the one who is alongside you and fighting for you.。
But what about the waiting that doesn't end?。
Come on, let's be real today.。
What about the spouse that never materialises?。
What about the child that never comes?。
What about the one you love never finding Jesus?。
Or the one you love never regaining their faith?。
What about the change that you long for?。
The healing that you need not happening?。
What about this type of waiting?。
We're not talking about days or weeks. We're talking about years and decades.。
This type of waiting there are not sufficient words to describe the ache that builds within you.。
And this is what this series has revealed to me.。
Andrew taught us that in God's eyes waiting is a gift.。
A gift.。
How can this type of waiting be a gift?。
He also taught us about kavah, the Hebrew word for waiting.。
To bind together, to gather together, to look, to expect.。
God's type of waiting calls us to...。
...remember all the promises and the hopes and the dreams and in them and through them...。
...begin a process of anticipating all the good that is to come.。
Hoping and expecting it'll come to pass.。
And God spoke to me in the night through my dreaming moments...。
...and showed me that I was no longer anticipating my future.。
The waiting, the longing, the ache in one area of my life, I no longer anticipated any change.。
I don't think I'm the only one in the room who is experiencing long-term waiting.。
I don't think I'm the only one here whose anticipation has died.。
Anticipation in the waiting for hopes, promises, dreams to come to pass.。
For change to come.。
You know when you examine your heart today that the length of the wait has crushed all expectation.。
You no longer eagerly anticipate God's intervention.。
The Bible says that hope deferred makes the heart sick.。
There have been many times over the course of the last 12 years that I've been waiting...。
...in one particular area of my life that I know my heart has been sick.。
This type of waiting will challenge you to your core.。
It will strip you bare.。
It will leave you feeling incredibly vulnerable.。
It'll cause you to question your faith.。
And if you're not careful it'll cause you to abandon it.。
It can numb you.。
Rob you of your joy, your sense of hope and your dreaming for change and a better future.。
I don't have all the answers for this type of waiting.。
I'm still waiting.。
But I do know there are some things that I do know I have not been left alone in the waiting.。
I do know that I've come to experience deeper levels of God's comfort than I ever have before.。
I do know that I have a rich trust that I never would have had except for this journey.。
God has revealed himself time and time again in the waiting.。
Speaking words of comfort, reminding me of his nearness and challenging me and calling on me to deepen my trust.。
I know I can give greater measures of love and grace away because I've experienced the depths of God's infinite grace.。
That picture in Ezekiel 47 where a man is led deeper and deeper into the water that is streaming from the temple, that picture of God's presence.。
The man gets led to a point where it is so deep, the only way he could possibly experience it is if he was to swim.。
This type of waiting where the answer does not come and a change has not happened, this type of waiting has taught me to swim.。
To have nothing to rely on to keep me up but the water, the presence of God.。
However, this doesn't just happen. You have a choice to make.。
In these times of waiting, you can choose to lean in, to learn to trust God afresh and begin to anticipate afresh the future that he has for you.。
Or you can lean out, you can pull away and you can settle for substitutes.。
The third thing waiting does is remind us of his promises and heighten our gratitude.。
"Then my head will be exalted above the enemies who surround me, at his sacred tent I will sacrifice with shouts of joy, I will sing and make music to the Lord."。
When David sings this, he has not yet been delivered from his enemies.。
He is still surrounded but as he waits, he gets a glimpse of the good that is to come.。
He has the faith to declare that he will be delivered from his enemies.。
His heart is filled with gratitude and joy as he's reminded of God's enduring presence and protection.。
In the midst of the waiting, even before his release from his enemies, David breaks forth in shouts of joy, singing and praising God.。
Some of us today need to prophetically shout for joy and express our gratitude to God.。
Not because the answer has come, not because the waiting has ended, but because we believe in the one who is walking with us through the waiting.。
Waiting is for our benefit.。
God doesn't need it.。
He is ever present.。
But we take time.。
We take time for our minds to declutter and all the thoughts that are swirling around to settle.。
Waiting, it realigns us to the one, the one thing that's needed.。
Waiting strengthens our resolve for future challenges.。
And waiting reminds us of his promises and heightens our gratitude.。
Today we need to rediscover and truly value God's presence.。
We wait for what we value.。
So how do we begin this process?。
How do we restore our value that we hold in God?。
We start by removing the lesser things, the substitutes that have crowded our life and our mind and our hearts,。
stolen our time and caused us to drift away from what God truly intended for us.。
I'm wearing a pair of Converse today.。
See?。
I bought them in Japan when my husband and I were there for our 30th wedding anniversary.。
I really, really wanted them.。
But this store, I wanted a size 7.。
They only had 6.5 in the style that I wanted.。
And I didn't want to wait.。
So I bought them.。
And every time I wear them, I'm aware that I should have waited.。
My toes get a little bit pinched.。
And while we were in worship I was like, "I think the circulation is getting cut off."。
I share this with you because if I hadn't told you, you wouldn't know.。
These shoes are like substitutes.。
They aren't the ones that I should have had.。
They aren't the ones that would have been the right fit for me.。
And many of us in here today, you've settled for substitutes.。
You've settled for lesser things.。
You're looking at the outside of your life and might not know.。
But you do.。
You do.。
It was like whenever I went out with somebody that I knew my parents didn't want me to go out with and they weren't a Christian, I would know.。
I'd feel it.。
It's not quite the right fit.。
So how do we respond to this?。
We have to remove the lesser things.。
I want us all to personally choose to create space here today to realign ourselves to the one thing that's needed.。
If you're sitting here today and you know that you've taken paths that you shouldn't, that you've become impatient maybe in the waiting and have settled for a substitute or something lesser than what God intended for you, we're going to take some time now.。
We're going to close our eyes.。
And if that's you, I want you to open up your hands to be honest with God and say, "I want to begin the process of letting go of the lesser things, the things that have taken up my time and my energy and the paths I've walked that have not been the paths that I should have walked."。
Father, we open up our hands before you and we are all aware that at times we settle for substitutes.。
We lose sight of the value of waiting for your intervention, waiting for you to bring the right fit, the right plans, the right person, the right job.。
And so we settle for substitutes.。
We settle for things that you never intended for us.。
So Father, right now we open up our hands as a sign to you that we're willing to let them go.。
We're willing to surrender them.。
And Father, we pray right now that our value, the value we hold in our hearts of waiting on you, Father, we want to restore that today.。
We remind ourselves that those who wait, your word says they will be blessed.。
We remind ourselves today that your word says that when we wait, you act on our behalf.。
Father, thank you.。
Thank you for your goodness and your gentleness and your kindness that you wrap us up today.。
I'd also now like to pray for those who have been waiting a long time.。
You've been waiting a long time for something.。
And when I shared that God had revealed to me that I had stopped anticipating my future, you understood that.。
You were sitting there thinking, yeah, I can't see a good future.。
I can't see where change could possibly come from.。
I've lost all hope in God stepping in.。
If that's you today, I'd like you to open up your hands.。
Father, the waiting is painful, God.。
But we remember today that we're not alone and that you understand our pain.。
You understand our frame.。
You're familiar with all our ways.。
You are not distant.。
You are in this.。
So, Father, I pray right now for the ache and the pain that you would come and wrap us up in your tender love.。
That we would have ears right now to hear your gentle whispers.。
That you would speak clearly to us.。
That you would give us the courage to deepen our trust.。
That the waiting is for our benefit and that good things can happen even in the middle of the waiting.。
And lastly, we're going to stand in a minute.。
And we're going to take an opportunity to declare prophetically.。
Some of you today, you need to declare prophetically that you are going to trust the one who holds your future in his hands.。
You are going to trust that he is the God of the impossible.。
Even when you can't see how anything could happen or change or be different.。
You're going to declare it prophetically.。
That you believe he's able.。
That he can do things that are beyond your understanding.。
And that you are going to trust him.。
I did this on the way to work this week.。
And I began to declare to God that he is the God who can do things that I can't even imagine.。
That where my limitations were, I chose to prophetically declare that I wasn't going to let my limitations prevent me from believing and hoping and dreaming and trusting.。
Today we're going to do that together.。
We're going to sing a song together that declares that.。
So would you stand with me?。
(gentle music)。
