(audience chattering)。
Ah, great.。
Who has plans for summer?。
Anyone got summer plans?。
Only Tim and maybe me.。
All right, yeah, my family, they're already in Singapore,。
but I love you guys too much,。
so I decided to stay with you all.。
(laughs)。
I do love you guys.。
And I would love to tell you a few things。
that's happening in church as well.。
So last week, just a praise report,。
we had our first ever Youth Ministry gathering last Sunday.。
And it was so fun, thanks to a lot of our volunteers,。
and it's been a great time.。
And we're gonna have the second one next week.。
So next Sunday, is it next week?。
Yes, next Sunday at 1.30 to 3.30.。
And I just want to tell you in advance,。
especially to our young people here,。
we do actually prepare lunch for you all.。
So I know some of you, last time you came after lunch,。
and we're so sorry, we just hope you come and join us。
for lunch, I'm talking to the young people here,。
by the way, yeah.。
And youth, according to Francesca last week,。
the definition of youth in this church,。
I know we're all very young, when I look around,。
you all are so young and energetic.。
But youth in our church means people who are。
in the age range of 13 to 18.。
I hope I got this right, 13 to 18, all right?。
I know all the ladies in this room are 18,。
I know that, I know that, okay.。
Maybe we have to set this a little bit lower then.。
Anyway, so if you have any young people around you,。
please scan this QR code, invite them,。
remind them we're providing lunch as well,。
so that's happening next week.。
And I'm gonna jump forward to September。
to tell you something exciting in advance.。
Our next baptism is happening at the end of September.。
So this is the date we have set for now.。
We may change it a little bit,。
but it should be around this time.。
And the baptism class will be on the 8th and the 15th.。
So we're telling you the dates in advance。
'cause we wanna invite especially those among us,。
if you have not been baptized, which we think you should be,。
because baptism audit means it's an outward symbol。
of something that is happening inside of you.。
If you follow Jesus in your heart,。
if you accept him as your Lord and Savior,。
then baptism is a way to tell the rest of the world,。
this is what you have chosen to do。
or to believe in your heart.。
So of course, there's so much more about baptism。
and about like what's about following Jesus。
that we would love to explain to you in the baptism class.。
And even if you're not sure whether you could get baptized。
for whatever reasons,。
we still would love to invite you to the baptism class。
if you haven't joined one before.。
You will learn so much more about baptism。
and faith and everything, and you can decide.。
And we do have people in the past,。
even they couldn't join the baptism for whatever reason,。
they came to the baptism class。
and we had a great time together, I think.。
So yeah, so sign up code here。
and we will keep reminding you。
so you have more time to think about it.。
Cool, and the next announcements,。
I wanna invite someone, one of my heroes up on the stage.。
These are the heroes that's always like。
work in the background.。
And can we give it up to Justin?。
He's gonna tell us a little bit about the production team.。
- Joseph, Joseph, good morning.。
If I'm one of your heroes, you need to look higher, man.。
All right, get some better role models.。
Yeah, I'm Justin,。
I'm in charge of the production team here at Vineyuan Long.。
And I don't know, some of you might be like,。
what is production?。
I know whenever I see the word producer,。
I'm like, that doesn't mean anything to me.。
It sounds vague and fancy.。
So that's why we have a list here.。
For production team, we're basically in charge。
of anything that's got electricity, a power cable,。
that's our job.。
So sound, slides, camera, lighting,。
everything that we need to make a service run smoothly。
and help you as a congregation,。
follow along with the scriptures or hear the sermon。
or watch it back on the recording.。
That's what we do.。
So we're always looking for more people。
to join the team and help.。
If any of that interests you。
and you feel relatively comfortable。
with technology in your life,。
please come talk to me or scan the code。
and you can fill out our interest form.。
And one perk is that you get to hang out。
in the very cool, what Pastor Tim calls the VIP room.。
It's a very cool vibe back there,。
especially if you're an introvert.。
So come join us, but not too many of you。
'cause then that defeats the whole purpose.。
But yeah, no, that's why we have scheduling.。
All right, please, yeah, if you are interested,。
come talk to me.。
Thank you very much.。
- Thank you, Justin.。
I remember there was one time。
I was preaching in the Cantonese service.。
I came in like before service, I guess 15 minutes,。
I have a very last minute request,。
a very high tech kind of last minute request.。
And I talked to Justin and all he said was,。
"That's why we're here."。
I think sometimes we forget how much effort。
has been put into the service.。
And I think if you really want to learn。
to serve like Jesus, like servant leadership,。
that's a fancy word, that is a very good place to start.。
Can we put our hands together for our whole production team。
and also our welcome team as well.。
They've been serving week in, week out。
and they've been amazing.。
And talking about the welcome team,。
they're standing there ready for offering already.。
So I'll just very spoofly。
segue into our offering time as well.。
And as a welcome team, they're passing on the buckets.。
If you gift by cash or checks,。
that's how you can put it inside the buckets。
with the envelopes.。
If you want to do it in all the digital fancy ways,。
all the QR codes are on the screen.。
We just want to thank you for partnering with us。
in this church.。
And you may be aware of the alphas that we've been running.。
And alpha season will be back soon again.。
We'll tell you more about it later.。
You may remember the parenting workshop seminars。
that we're hosting and all the other ministries.。
We're very grateful that a lot of you,。
you partner with us in many different ways.。
First of all, of course, it's through your prayer.。
And of course, a lot of you would come and volunteer。
in those events.。
And also a lot of you give quite sacrificially。
to make all these possible.。
We're still finding new ways to better serve。
our community here in Yuen Long.。
That's why God planted us here.。
We're still finding ways,。
but your partnership has always been crucial.。
And I just want to say thank you to all of you for that.。
And I would love to pray for our offering today as well.。
Would you bow your heads with me?。
God, we thank you for your blessings,。
not just on us, but also through us.。
We are amazed that as a group of people here,。
as your representative, your church,。
what we can actually do to bless those people around us,。
people who know you, people who have yet to know you.。
Father, you have given us resources,。
you have given us talents,。
you have given us many different ways。
to reach out to those around us.。
I pray that Lord God, that we will continue to journey。
with you, to walk with you as a church.。
We will continue to bring your blessings。
to this community around us in Yuen Long and to our city.。
And Father, I just want to thank you。
for every single one here in this room who give,。
who choose to partner, who choose to sow into your kingdom.。
I pray a blessing over them and their family.。
In Jesus' name I pray, amen.。
And I would love to invite our speaker today,。
Tim, back to the stage, Pastor Tim.。
It's good to have you with us today again.。
And yeah, so let's pray for him。
as he's going to bring this message to us today.。
Father, we pray for Pastor Tim,。
we pray you would anoint your servant,。
you would speak through him today.。
We pray as he unpacks your work, your word,。
and God, we pray that our hearts will be set on fire。
by this message.。
I know it has already set his heart on fire.。
So God, we just pray today you will come。
and speak to every single one of us in this room.。
In your name we pray.。
- Amen. - Amen.。
- Thank you, Chapman.。
Wow, it's so good to be with you, good to see you.。
Amazing to worship with you together.。
You know, the lyrics from the song,。
"You're Worthy of It All," like as Chapman did,。
you know, they're from the book of Revelations.。
And one thing that John in that book does,。
he gives heavenly scenes to encourage the saints.。
So there's, whenever the book of Revelation shifts,。
it's God revealing what's happening in the heavenly realm,。
and he encourages and builds up his people.。
And so I really, I don't know about you,。
but I was just so encouraged and built up,。
you know, through the worship,。
and I trust that you were as well.。
But hey, now this year, here at the Vineyard Long,。
we have been focusing on growing。
in our personal relationship with Jesus.。
One way that we have tried to do that。
is through the beginning of the year,。
we had a 21-day fasting season.。
So during the fasting time, we came before God,。
and we brought things where we were longing for breakthrough。
where we said, "Jesus, I need breakthrough from you。
in this area of my life."。
But it was not the only thing。
that we brought before Jesus' fasting season.。
It was also us making ourselves available.。
"Jesus, I'm here, I'm available, use me, use our church.。
We know that what you wanna do,。
we're not able to do out of our own strength,。
out of our own power, but it's by the power of your spirit."。
And it was a yielding and a surrendering.。
And then with that fasting season。
that we had at the beginning of the year,。
21 days of fasting, we also had a sermon series。
that we titled "Fresh Encounters."。
And so part of that series was about that。
we as Christians, a lot of times,。
get into spiritual routines.。
Now routine is nothing bad, actually they're very helpful,。
but sometimes our routines get stale,。
where we just do the same old, same old,。
and our spiritual life somehow loses its dynamic.。
And so in the series, we were talking about。
how we wanna have fresh encounters with Jesus,。
how we wanna have new encounters,。
not just always talk about the past,。
but Jesus meeting us here in the present,。
speaking to us in the present,。
doing new things in our lives.。
So for those of you who were here。
at the beginning of the year, I'm just curious,。
how is that going?。
How has that been going?。
Now for me, one of the things that I do,。
one of my own spiritual practices,。
is I ask myself every week a series of questions。
that I then answer by journaling.。
And so these are questions about my work,。
these are questions about my personal life,。
how I'm doing spiritually.。
And so because of this theme this year,。
at the beginning of the year,。
I added a question to these questions that I ask myself.。
And it's this question,。
have I spent quality time with Jesus this week?。
Now for me, quality time with Jesus。
means spending time in prayer,。
spending time in God's word,。
journaling, meditating on God's word,。
just having time to listen, to sit still,。
to sit in the presence of God.。
And it's also important that I'm not doing that。
because of work.。
'Cause as you know, I write sermons。
and I go in God's word prayerfully and I do these things.。
But in this time, it's important。
that I just go with no agenda,。
or just go personally,。
not because I'm trying to write a sermon or something.。
And I found that when I have this intimacy with Jesus,。
when I actually take time, and I don't always,。
I'm confessing here as a pastor,。
but that's why I ask myself those questions。
because I wanna be on the right track.。
I wanna have that intimacy.。
I wanna hear from Jesus in my life.。
And so that's why I ask myself this question,。
when I don't have this time,。
when just suddenly my life spins out of control,。
I get busy, I do all sorts of things,。
I lose a lot of times perspective,。
I lose hope sometimes or joy,。
and I get out of touch with actually what God。
is saying to me or speaking to us as a family,。
and even us as a church.。
Now, King David,。
pondering the significance of God's word,。
he said this in Psalm 119, 105, famous verse,。
"Your word is a lamp for my feet, a light on my path."。
So God's word is the primary way。
that God makes himself known to us.。
So he reveals himself to us personally。
so that we can personally know him.。
But on top of that, God's word also gives us guidance,。
in where he speaks about us,。
about situations and circumstances in our lives,。
where he gives us direction and clarity,。
what it means to follow him in this particular circumstance。
that you are facing right now.。
And so that is why I asked myself this question,。
because I wanna hear from God, I wanna encounter God,。
and I need him to speak into all sorts of circumstances.。
And so I asked myself the question,。
have I spent quality time with Jesus this week?。
'Cause I wanna make sure that I hear from him,。
that I hear from the voice of God,。
that I hear him speak to me,。
that I don't just act out of what Tim thinks,。
but that I'm hearing from him personally.。
So today through this message,。
what I wanna explore with you,。
or just a question that I really wanna put before you,。
and I believe this is also the question。
that the biblical text that we're gonna look at。
puts before us is,。
are we listening to God speak to us through his word?。
Like, do we actually make space in our calendars。
and our lives to hear from God,。
the creator of the universe,。
who has amazing things to say to us, to you,。
who when he speaks, he brings about good things,。
he wants to bring about good things,。
he wants to bring about flourishing in your life.。
He wants them to unfold, but do we listen?。
Do we give God space in our lives to speak?。
Or do we listen to a bunch of other things, but not to God?。
Well, we're continuing in our Galatians sermon series,。
and Paul basically asks this question to the Galatians,。
are you listening to God's word speak to you。
about the current circumstances,。
the challenges that they are facing?。
And so I wanna look with you at that,。
but before that, I wanna set the context for our passage,。
because Paul takes the Galatians。
to what we call the Old Testament,。
or we could call Hebrew scriptures in this case,。
he takes them to a story in Genesis.。
And so I wanna retell the story。
because Paul assumes that his listeners know it,。
and so he doesn't explain everything。
as he speaks to them about listening。
to the voice of God through scripture.。
And so let me set the context.。
So it's a story about Abraham.。
Now, God promised Abraham that he will bless him,。
that we will make him into a great nation,。
that all people on earth will be blessed through him,。
that we will give him land,。
so there's all these promises that God makes Abraham,。
but there is a problem.。
The problem is, or there's tension in the story,。
because Sarah, his wife,。
she has not been able to conceive any children.。
So right from the get-go, there's this question,。
how is this gonna work if you talk about。
numerous descendants and all of this?。
How is this gonna happen?。
Now, so Abraham and Sarah, they wait,。
and they wait on God, they wait on God's promise,。
but nothing seems to happen.。
So Sarah approaches Abraham,。
and they take matters into their own hands.。
Sarah gives her servant Hagar to Abraham in marriage.。
So this was a common practice among wealthy families。
where they would do that,。
and if there's a child born,。
that then can become the heir of the family.。
So they do that, and Hagar gives birth to a child。
named Ishmael.。
Now, God speaks to Abraham again,。
and this time he makes a covenant.。
So he doesn't just make the promise,。
but he actually ratifies that in a covenant。
with Abraham.。
But he says that the promises that he's making to him,。
that they will be fulfilled through a child。
that Sarah will give birth to.。
So again, she is, the Bible says she's barren.。
She's not able to bear children,。
but it also says now that she's way beyond the age。
where women usually give birth.。
And so God wants them, but God promises this,。
and then within a year, Sarah is pregnant.。
She gives birth to Isaac.。
It's a miracle.。
It's unbelievable.。
God has fulfilled his promise.。
Now, Isaac and Ishmael, they grow up,。
and Ishmael, he mocks Isaac.。
And so this then triggers some tension。
between Hagar and Sarah,。
and Sarah then ultimately asks Abraham。
for Ishmael to be kicked out,。
her and Hagar out of, away from the family.。
And Abraham agrees.。
He talks to God.。
God says, "I will take care of them."。
And so then they send them away.。
So that's the background of the biblical text。
that we're gonna look at, the background story.。
So you can keep that in mind as we read that.。
So let's go to Galatians 4, and starting with verse 21,。
it says this.。
"Tell me, you who want to be under the law,。
are you not aware of what the law says?。
For it is written that Abraham had two sons,。
one by the slave woman and the other by the free woman.。
His son by the slave woman was born according to the flesh,。
but his son by the free woman was born。
as a result of divine promise."。
So Paul addresses the Galatians in verse 21。
with the phrase, "As those who want to be under the law."。
Now, this is interesting.。
So again, are they gonna submit themselves to Mosaic law?。
And, you know, for Paul, this would be something negative,。
but for this group of agitators or Judaizers。
or rival missionaries,。
those are three different names we've given them,。
from that group that came into Galatia。
and stirred things up and challenged what Paul had preached.。
So they would see that as something positive。
and would see that as the way。
of becoming part of God's family.。
But for Paul, he says,。
"No, that's not the way you become part of God's family,。
not through observing law, not through human effort,。
but through faith in Jesus, by the power of God,。
by the Spirit's work."。
So that's how they would view that.。
Now, Paul then asks the second, or as he continues to say,。
"Are you not aware of what the law says?"。
You know, you who want to be under the law,。
are you not aware of what the law says?。
Now, a more literal translation of this would be,。
"Do you not listen to the law?"。
Now, Paul uses the word law.。
Actually, law was shorthand in the time。
for all of the Hebrew scripture.。
So Paul is saying, "Do you not listen to God's word?"。
Now, during that time,。
people didn't have their apps on the phone。
or their private Bibles.。
Actually, the written word was something that was really rare,。
really expensive, really precious.。
So they had either the Hebrew scripture。
or the Greek version, which is called the Septuagint.。
They had it on parchment, so like animal skin,。
or they had it on papyrus rolls.。
And so the way that most people encountered God's word。
was simply by hearing, because it was read, it was recited,。
sometimes it was recited by memory.。
And so that's how they would hear God's word.。
But Paul is not just saying to them,。
"Are you listening to God's word?"。
Or, "Do you listen to what the law actually says?"。
He's saying, "Are you listening to what is God saying。
"through his word about your current circumstances?"。
Yeah, are you actually really hearing from God。
what he is saying through his word。
to you about your life right now, right here?。
So that's what's going on there.。
So here we can see that the truth,。
that God loves to speak to us through his word,。
providing guidance, clarity, and direction for us。
in our current life circumstances.。
And so God was speaking to the Galatians,。
but again, there was a question, are they listening?。
Are they hearing?。
Are they tuned, and do they desire to hear from God?。
And Paul is asking that question.。
And this actually has a lot of relevance for us today,。
because God still speaks us through his word.。
He still speaks us about our current circumstances。
through his word.。
And not just, are you listening to it, are you studying it,。
but are you hearing God speak to you。
about what is happening in your life?。
Maybe it's about relationships.。
Maybe it's about raising children.。
Maybe it's about justice issues.。
Maybe it's about COVID-19.。
So any of these things, God's word through his spirit,。
he speaks to his people so that we know,。
what does it mean to follow Jesus?。
How should we think about this?。
What's God's will for the situation?。
And he loves speaking to his people.。
But again, the question is, are we listening?。
Do we even hear, or have we learned to hear。
how God speaks to us and what he's saying?。
So Paul then goes on,。
and he actually then takes the Galatians to God's word.。
So this is where verse 22 and 23,。
where it talks about, says,。
for it is written that Abram had two sons,。
one by the slave woman, the other by a free woman.。
His son by the slave woman was born according to the flesh,。
but a son by the free woman was born。
as a result of a divine promise.。
So the phrase, it was written,。
is Paul's shorthand for whenever he introduces scripture.。
So usually it's a direct quotation from the Bible.。
In this case, it's a summary。
of what the Hagar-Sara narrative says in the Bible.。
So he's saying, I'm taking you now to God's word.。
And he basically summarizes the story。
in the following way, where he creates this contrast。
between the son born to a slave,。
and the son born to a free woman,。
and the son born according to the flesh,。
and the son born as a result of God's promise.。
So we have a table for that.。
Let me show what that looks like.。
So what Paul is doing here,。
he's showing the contrast between these two things.。
And I wanna especially highlight the contrast。
between born of the flesh and born as a result。
of God's promise.。
And so this is the part where Sara and Abraham,。
they were trying out of their own strength。
to make things happen, by their own power.。
And that's why they asked Hagar to have a,。
you know, to get married to Abraham, have a child.。
And he says that that was according to the flesh,。
it was out of the human strength, not by God's strength.。
But then in contrast, when Sara gave birth to Isaac,。
it is by the power of the spirit。
that this miracle really happens,。
that Isaac is born,。
and it's according to the promise that God made.。
Now this is interesting,。
and I think this is something。
that we probably can all relate to,。
that there's many times in our lives。
where we try to do something out of our human strength.。
We try to make something happen.。
Maybe God spoke to you about something.。
He's gonna do something in your life,。
and you're waiting and you're waiting,。
you get tired of waiting,。
and you're like, I'm just gonna now try it。
on my own effort to make this happen.。
And so we go for it.。
Now I can relate to that, I've done that.。
I remember, so I've shared before where my life。
at that point in time in many ways fell apart,。
broken relationship, loss of job, loss of home,。
all of those things.。
And so in that time, God met me and spoke to me,。
and it was helpful, and I started moving forward.。
But there was this point where it was like,。
I want things to be right again.。
And I wanna see that happening.。
So I was striving really hard,。
I was trying really hard to bring about these things。
in my life that I can experience wholeness,。
that I can figure out what I'm doing job wise.。
And I was trying as hard as I could,。
and it was actually creating a lot of anxiety,。
and also not much was happening.。
And so then during one time, spending time in God's word,。
he spoke to me through a passage where he told me。
that he will establish me in his time.。
And so this was a promise.。
And then basically, for me then,。
I was actually was really helpful。
because I was trying so hard, I was striving,。
and I just realized I just need to trust。
and have faith in God that he will meet me,。
especially now that he's spoken,。
that he will meet me, that he will establish me,。
that he will sort things out in my life,。
even though right now it's a big mess,。
and I don't know what to do,。
and I'm just trying to set things right myself.。
And so that removed a lot of the anxiety and stress for me。
as I started trusting God,。
that he will fulfill what he says by his power,。
by his spirit, not by my effort.。
But so here we see these two lines.。
One is the path of works,。
the other one is the path of grace and the power of God.。
And so Paul is laying this before the Galatians.。
But let's continue in verse 24.。
It says this, "These things are being taken figuratively.。
"The woman represents two covenants.。
"One covenant is from Mount Sinai。
"and bears children who are to be slaves, that is Hagar.。
"Now Hagar stands for Mount Sinai in Arabia。
"and corresponds to the present city of Jerusalem,。
"because she is in slavery with her children.。
"But the Jerusalem that is above is free,。
"and she is our mother.。
"For it is written, 'Be glad, barren woman,。
"'you who never bore a child,。
"'break forth and cry aloud,。
"'you who were never in labor,。
"'because more are the children。
"'of the desolate woman than of her who has a husband.'"。
So here Paul, I notice this very complicated, this text,。
but Paul is basically moving from,。
first he summarized scripture theologically,。
now he's saying I'm interpreting this figuratively for you.。
And I'm showing how this applies。
to your life, to your circumstances.。
And he's drawing this comparison。
between these two lineages, again,。
and just further develops that.。
So let's visualize that, let's put that up.。
So here you have the path of works continues,。
it's the Mosaic Covenant, he talks about two covenants.。
It's Hagar, Mount Sinai, slavery, present Jerusalem.。
So that's the one lineage, then you have the other one,。
it's the new covenant, it's our mother,。
probably implies Mount Sinai, but it's not clear,。
so I didn't put that in, freedom, Jerusalem.。
So again, God lays before his people。
these two different tracks, two different paths,。
the paths of work, the path of grace.。
And the one leads to enslavement,。
you know, this leads to enslavement,。
and this leads to life, freedom, relationship with God.。
Now, Paul also, and I'm gonna keep this short on this part,。
Paul also really brings it into the present。
when he talks about present Jerusalem。
and the Jerusalem that is above, so let me explain that.。
So the present Jerusalem, you know,。
refers to all those who are under the Mosaic law,。
who are seeking, now that crisis come,。
who are seeking to earn right standing, you know,。
with God through observing the law,。
to be in a part of the family of God,。
and then they're putting forth these human efforts,。
so that's this track, and then the Jerusalem that is above。
are people who have placed their faith in Jesus,。
who have been born again, born by the Spirit,。
who are now a new creation, where God has done something new,。
where have, like, this new creation。
is breaking into our present age,。
and so this is where, it's a spiritual reality,。
the Jerusalem that is above.。
And so Paul takes the story and he puts this before him,。
these are the two tracks, these are the two pathways,。
and then he draws an application,。
and this is the last part of the scripture。
that we're gonna look at, so continue verse 28 says,。
now you brothers and sisters,。
like Isaac, are children of promise.。
At that time, the Son, born according to the flesh,。
persecuted the Son born by the power of the Spirit.。
It is the same now, but what does scripture say?。
Get rid of the slave woman and her son,。
for the slave woman's son will never share。
in the inheritance with the free woman's son.。
Therefore, brothers and sisters,。
we are not children of a slave woman,。
but of the free woman.。
So Paul has taken the Galatians to the scripture passage,。
he's saying God is speaking through this passage to them。
about their present circumstances,。
and he's holding before them these two pathways,。
how, and now he's, basically there's two applications.。
One of them, he tells the Galatians, Christians,。
that they are children of the promise,。
and children of the free woman.。
So he tells them their identity.。
It's like, you are part of God's promise being fulfilled.。
You are part, you are born of the Spirit, you are free.。
That is who you are.。
Why would you go back under the law?。
So that's basically what he's saying there.。
And this is by God's power, not by our own strength.。
And then the second thing that Paul says is,。
get rid of, you need to get rid of the agitators。
that are among you, that have been stirring things up,。
that have been undermining the truth of the gospel.。
And so he's talking about that basically。
they've been persecuting them or harassing them.。
He's saying you need to cut them off.。
You need to cut yourself off from them.。
And so that is what God is saying to the Galatians.。
This is who you are,。
and this is how you respond to the situation.。
Now, this, to us,。
it's not easy to take in, but you have to think about.。
So God is speaking to his people.。
He's speaking to them about something。
that they are really wrestling with,。
you know, that really has caused。
all these problems among them.。
And now God speaks and he gives them clarity。
through his word, you know, how they can move forward,。
how they can understand the situation.。
And he does that because he wants to bring life.。
He wants to see this life of the Spirit,。
this life that God wants to unfold among them.。
He wants to see that unfold.。
And so he's speaking, but the question is,。
are they listening?。
You know, are they hearing from God?。
Now I want to talk about us.。
I want to bring this to a more practical level.。
You know, are we listening to God speak to us。
through his word?。
So the, you know, Hagar and Sarah narrative。
or the Abraham story with the two sons,。
that was not written to the Galatians.。
That was written to a different group of people。
in Israel's history, but it did apply。
to the present circumstances they were facing in Galatia.。
And so the Bible is not written to us,。
but it is written for us.。
Now, what does this mean?。
It means that God's, you know, God's word,。
the Bible was written to people。
at a specific time in history。
with a specific purpose and a specific cultural context.。
And so in that sense, it's not written to us,。
but God's word is God breathed.。
So it's written for us.。
God speaks to us, even despite,。
and here, I think in this passage,。
we do see that there is a cultural gap, you know,。
between what's discussed in our own life,。
but it is God's word and he speaks to us。
through his word because it's God breathed.。
He speaks to his people.。
Now, of course, we can learn skills。
on how to interpret it, you know, a little bit better,。
but the important thing is that God loves speaking。
to his people and he helps us with the Holy Spirit。
to understand what his word says。
and how that word applies, you know, to us specifically.。
Now, a lot of times when we read God's word,。
we read it like we've learned how to read.。
So in school, we learn to read in a way。
that we gather information so that we can write the essay。
or that we can answer the questions.。
We read very informationally,。
or maybe if you're in business,。
maybe you read your financial reports, you study it,。
and then you gather all the key information,。
and that's how you get all the facts.。
But if you wanna hear God speak through his word,。
we have to move beyond just reading it。
in this informational way.。
We need to read it relationally.。
We need to read it prayerfully.。
And so reading the Bible prayerfully。
helps us to prepare ourselves to hear from God.。
You know, Lord, help me understand what I'm reading here.。
Speak to me, I'm here, your servant's listening.。
It's quite a different posture than when I go,。
okay, this is like homework, you know,。
okay, here are the facts of the story.。
Quite different.。
And as we read God's word prayerfully,。
you know, God speaks to his people.。
He will speak to you.。
He will speak to us as a community,。
but he also will speak to you individually.。
By speaking, I don't mean an audible voice,。
but I mean, you know, inside your heart, inside your mind,。
God will reveal things and make things clear to you。
that were not clear before,。
and you will know that it's not from you,。
but it is something that God is saying to you.。
So God loves to make himself known.。
He loves to speak to us.。
Now, as Christians,。
one thing that I think is important for us,。
we wanna bring what's going on in our lives。
and what's happening in our circumstance.。
So not just with us individually,。
but what's happening in our city,。
what's happening in Yuen Long,。
what's happening with people experiencing poverty.。
And we wanna bring those things prayerfully。
in dialogue with God's word,。
so that he speaks to us about these current circumstances,。
gives us wisdom about how he is calling us,。
leading us to move forward in those specific things.。
And I wanna give an example personally.。
Quite a while, actually, probably like 10 years ago,。
so I had a horrible conflict, preached about it before,。
where I just afterwards was exhausted,。
tired, really struggling to forgive.。
I mean, I even was like, almost like shaking。
and just like really knocked down flat from this conflict.。
And I really was struggling to forgive.。
I was like, I don't know how to forgive.。
And so this struggle led me to go back to God's word.。
And so what I find interesting,。
now that I've studied this before,。
and so I had certain answers about what forgiveness is,。
what reconciliation is,。
but now in this desperate situation。
with a specific conflict,。
where I really just could not move past it.。
As I was searching scripture,。
and this was also, by the way,。
not like one time I turned to the Bible。
and then everything was clear.。
This was an ongoing process.。
But God really spoke to me about what forgiveness is,。
what reconciliation is.。
And I realized that I had confused these concepts.。
So I thought forgiving means reconciling,。
so working things out。
and having the relationship reestablished.。
But actually forgiving is just forgiving。
and letting go of the offense of that person.。
And God's word says, we forgive,。
we're actually commanded to forgive.。
So forgiveness is a command,。
while reconciliation is a ministry.。
So reconciliation is something that we can only do。
if the other person is also maybe repentant。
of what they have done,。
if they're willing to engage in a process.。
So reconciliation takes two people.。
So for me, as I was wrestling with this conflict。
and God was bringing this clarity,。
I had clarity now on how I could follow Jesus。
in this conflict.。
He was asking me to forgive, which was struggling with,。
and then I prayerfully wrestled with that。
and God helped me to forgive.。
But I also realized that reconciliation,。
just going back to the relationship and how things were,。
was not something that I could just bring about。
out of my own.。
It also involved the other person,。
and it even involved them doing things。
that I cannot control.。
And so that was so helpful and so powerful to me.。
Another example, if you think more about,。
for us as a church during the pandemic,。
a lot of churches were asking,。
what is God saying to us during COVID?。
Where people are experiencing fear, anxiety, isolation,。
maybe sometimes feel really even labeled,。
if you had COVID and everybody treated you。
like you either have a horrible disease。
and nobody wants to get anywhere near to you,。
it's like dropping a food, running away as fast as they can。
without you opening the door and all of that stuff.。
And churches around the world did that.。
And so one thing that God spoke to us。
at the Vine very clearly about is the importance。
of community and relationships and community groups。
and that we need to tend and invest in and spend time。
caring for one another and checking in with one another.。
So God was speaking to his people。
on how to engage in that time.。
So I wanna invite the worship team to come up.。
And as I was preparing for this message,。
what I sensed was that God is just really putting。
this question before us.。
Are you listening to him speak?。
Are you giving space for God to speak to you。
through his word?。
Do you look to God's word for guidance in your life?。
Is God's word, does God's word have authority。
over your life?。
Where you place yourself, it's like, this is what God says.。
And even though maybe this maybe seems hard,。
because it's what God says, it is, I'm gonna do it.。
'Cause I know that ultimately what God's word says。
is the best thing and it gives life.。
And are we obedient when God speaks?。
And are we carving out a space?。
Because it's incredible that God speaks to us.。
That he wants to speak to you about the circumstances,。
the challenges that you are facing。
even right here and right now.。
And I know we are.。
I know many of us are.。
But are we opening our hearts, our lives to God。
to speak into our lives?。
Or are there other things speaking into our life?。
And I just felt that God just wants to light a fire。
in our hearts and give us this desire。
where he say, Jesus, I wanna hear from you.。
I wanna know what it means to follow you。
in this circumstance, at this point in time.。
I don't know what to do.。
I wanna hear from you.。
Or Jesus, how should I think about?。
I don't know how to think about this.。
Lord, help me to give a way。
of how I can think about this in the right way.。
I wanna hear from you.。
I wanna honor you.。
I wanna surrender to you and do things your way,。
not my way.。
So I just wanna invite everyone to stand.。
And I don't know if you have time。
or something scheduled in your calendar。
where you actually spend time with God.。
You know, there's actually a time in there。
where you carve out time to hear from Jesus.。
But I just would love to pray over us.。
And if you, yeah, just wanna express to Jesus,。
like, Jesus, I wanna hear from you.。
Or maybe it's even a specific thing。
that you need to hear from him about.。
I wanna encourage you to stretch out your hands.。
Let me pray for you.。
Jesus, I thank you so much。
that you are the God who speaks,。
that we can know your voice,。
that we can hear from you.。
And we don't know what to do,。
but you do.。
And you have a way forward.。
You have a perspective that we often lack and don't have.。
And Lord, I wanna pray for you.。
And Lord, you know all the circumstance。
that people are facing。
where they need to hear from you, Lord.。
I pray that you would speak.。
I pray that you would help to reprioritize。
just giving you time where you just come。
and just say, Jesus, I'm here.。
Speak to me.。
Speak into my life.。
Show me your heart.。
(gentle music)。
So Lord, yeah, I pray that we would be a church。
where you are at the center of our lives,。
where we know what you are saying to us.。
When we ask each other, what's God saying to you?。
That we know what you're speaking to us.。
And I pray that we can encourage each other。
to just always keep coming back to your word,。
to hear from you.。
And so will you do this work among us?。
Will you speak to us?。
Will you speak to those of us who are struggling?。
Will you give a word, Lord?。
We desperately long for it and we thank you for it.。
I pray this in your name, Jesus, amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
