Disclaimer, what I'm about to share,。
I've obtained the permission。
of the person I'm gonna mention.。
My family were in Singapore last December.。
I remember this following conversations。
took place in Singapore because。
whenever we're in Hong Kong,。
I'm the one driving and everybody else sit at the back.。
When we're in Singapore,。
mommy's driving and I got to sit at the back。
with the girls, with Megan and Mabel.。
And so there was one night we were,。
I forgot what we did, we were out for dinner。
and we were just driving home.。
I was seated at the back with the girls.。
And Megan, all of a sudden, she asked this question.。
She was asking, "Daddy, why do people die?"。
My daughter just turned four last November.。
So I wasn't quite ready to have this conversation。
with a four-year-old talking about。
the meaning of life and death.。
I wasn't prepared at all.。
And so she asked, "So why do people die?"。
And I tried to come up with all sorts of science,。
biology, tried to make up something,。
tried to downplay it to like what you tell,。
chat GPT, can you explain why we die to a four-year-old?。
So I tried my best without chat GPT.。
And then she asked, "So am I gonna die?。
"Is daddy gonna die?。
"Is mommy gonna die?"。
And as we progress in that conversation,。
you could sense the emotion that she's harboring.。
And ultimately she said, "I don't wanna die.。
"I don't want daddy and mommy to die."。
And you can feel that kind of sadness.。
And I'm telling you, I've been a parent。
for about a little bit more than four years。
and I was not prepared to have that conversation。
with my daughter.。
I thought they don't ask these kind of questions。
until they're much older.。
I don't know they could understand。
or have the concept of death in their tiny brains,。
but ever like developing brain at the age of four,。
I was totally surprised.。
But that night I learned one thing,。
that even my daughter was still young,。
she was only four.。
She didn't just catch the idea of death.。
It comes with natural fear.。
She was afraid of the concept of death,。
of dying, of being separated from her parents.。
I could sense fear inside.。
And that night I realized as human beings,。
we perhaps we were born with this kind of fear for death,。
this kind of fear for separation.。
Maybe like we don't even have to prepare ourselves.。
We don't even have to pick it up, learn it somewhere.。
It's kind of inborn in us.。
That's what I realized that night.。
I don't know about you.。
I don't know when was the last time you faced a situation。
like that, not talking to a toddler about death,。
but maybe you were in a situation where you faced death,。
or you faced the death of someone who is very close to you.。
And I don't know what kind of emotions,。
feelings that has brought you.。
Last week we were here for Easter Sunday.。
And if you were here,。
you probably would remember a message from Pastor Tim。
talking about the resurrection of Jesus。
from the narrative of the book of John in chapter 20,。
where John and Peter ran to the tomb。
and they discover something.。
They discover that cloth。
that was supposed to cover Jesus's face.。
It was put very neatly folded.。
It was there.。
And then he brought us all the way back。
to 700 years before Jesus,。
to a prophecy of Isaiah talking about that。
even 700 years before Jesus God had told his people。
that one day he would remove that face cloth,。
that shroud that is covering his people.。
He's going to remove the power of sin and death。
once and for all.。
So what we caught last week was this message。
that Jesus's resurrection means that sin is defeated。
and that power of death, it's no longer the final story.。
I see some of you nodding,。
yes, I know you were there last week.。
But as you were listening, or as I was listening,。
I don't know if I was the only one who asked this question,。
that if this were true,。
why are we still attending funerals?。
Why are we still attending Christian funerals regularly?。
Last year, before I came back, like came on full time,。
last year, God gave me some opportunities.。
I've been, one of my side gigs。
were to host funerals for different people。
from different churches。
or people who don't have a home church.。
So I've hosted a lot of funerals。
to a point that I start asking myself,。
I couldn't help but ask myself,。
or I started to realize that one day,。
those people that I love or those people who love me,。
they would inevitably attend my funeral.。
And I start to wonder if this was true,。
if God has defeated the power of death,。
why am I still attending funerals after funerals。
after funerals, Christian funerals?。
We were supposed to be sharing the victory。
over sin and death.。
Why am I here?。
What am I doing here, seated like at this funeral?。
And then I realized I'm not the only one。
who's been asking these questions。
in the last 2000 years of church history.。
I'm not the only one struggling with this idea.。
I'm not the only one wondering,。
if we share the victory over death,。
then why are we still experiencing physical death。
in our lifetime?。
Why everybody on earth right now。
still have to go through that?。
And I've been asking myself this question.。
And then I slowly realized or remember。
that this is actually one of the questions。
that the early church, the early Christians,。
they struggle with that too.。
So if you open this book, open the Bible。
to the New Testament, look at the letters Paul wrote,。
you will find a number of chapters。
that he was writing on this matter,。
that why Christians, they were asleep。
or why Christians, they died。
even before the coming back of Jesus。
or why Christian died, what does that mean?。
And so today I'm gonna jump into this book called,。
this letter called the First Corinthians.。
I'm gonna look at chapter 15.。
In fact, Paul dedicated the entire chapter to talk about it,。
but I'm gonna read from verse 20.。
And you can read with me.。
Paul says, "But Christ has indeed been raised from the dead。
"and the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep.。
"For since death came through a man,。
"the resurrection of the dead comes also through a man.。
"For as in Adam all die, so in Christ all will be made alive。
"but each in turn, Christ, the first fruits,。
"then when he comes, those who belong to him."。
So here, where is it?。
Those who have fallen asleep over here.。
Those who have fallen asleep,。
it naturally means those people who have died,。
who have passed away, those Christians in the church。
and their physical life ended.。
And this is what Paul meant,。
like when he said those people have fallen asleep.。
And then Paul used a very special。
and theologically rich term to describe Jesus.。
He used this word first fruits.。
And what we need to know that this is not a random word.。
This is not just, oh, okay, this word sounds cool.。
Let me pick this word.。
He chose this word like purposefully.。
And today I just wanna look at this word。
a little bit with us,。
especially let's look at where it came from。
in the Old Testament.。
We're gonna look at some,。
I'm gonna briefly go through the salvation history。
of Israel with us all.。
And maybe we all remember there is this event called Exodus。
where God led his people Israelites out of Egypt,。
out of slavery,。
and he was about to bring them into the promised land.。
And we know that God brought them out。
on this day called the Passover.。
That's around the time we celebrated Easter, right?。
Passover, Jesus is the Passover lamb.。
And we celebrated the fact that,。
the blood of the Passover lamb covered the doors.。
And that's why God didn't kill。
the firstborn of the Israelites,。
but then they were leaving Egypt and God was telling them,。
hey, you guys have to remember Passover。
for generations to come.。
You need to celebrate or remember that every year.。
But then when they were in the wilderness,。
right before they went into the promised land,。
God told them this.。
So I'm gonna read from Leviticus chapter 23.。
It says this,。
"The Lord said to Moses,。
"speak to the Israelites and say to them,。
"when you enter the land,。
"I'm going to give you and you reap its harvest,。
"bring to the priest a sheaf of the first grain。
"you harvest.。
"He's to wave the sheaf before the Lord,。
"so it will be accepted on your behalf.。
"The priest is to wave it on the day after the Sabbath."。
And verse 14 says this,。
"You must not eat any bread or roasted or new grain。
"until the very day you bring this offering to your God.。
"This is to be the lasting ordinance for generations。
"to come wherever you live."。
This day or this ceremony。
is known as the offering of the first fruits。
or it's called the feast of the first fruits.。
It's indeed one of the seven feasts of the Israelites.。
One of the days that they must remember for all generations。
and the feast of first fruits,。
it actually marked the offering of the first portion。
of the barley harvest to the Lord.。
And it symbolizes,。
"Hey guys, come on now,。
"it's the start of the harvest season.。
"It's time to go and take a harvest."。
And the Israelites were to harvest a sheaf。
or a bundle of grain of the first ripe barley。
and bring it alongside all the other offerings to the priest。
and the priest would wave it before God。
as a symbolic offering of gratitude and faith.。
It's to say thank you to God。
because we know that even this first grain,。
it came from God, it's provided by God.。
It's a gesture of faith。
because bringing this to God to wave it。
is the declaration that God,。
I know for the rest of the season,。
I know there will be a harvest this year。
and I know this upcoming harvest,。
it's also from you or it's your provision.。
So it's a gesture of gratitude,。
but it's also a gesture of faith,。
saying God, whoever goes bring their offering to God,。
saying, "God, I know what I'm holding in my hand right now,。
"this first grain, it is from you.。
"And I also know that you will provide for me。
"for the rest of the year,。
"for the rest of the harvest season."。
This is gratitude and faith at the same time,。
acknowledging God as the source of provision。
and trusting him for the rest of the harvest.。
This is to say, "God, I trust in you.。
"I know you are my provider."。
So now we know what this feast of first fruit is,。
but I'm telling you that the when, it's equally important.。
Just now we read from that verse,。
it says the priest is to wave it。
on the day after the Sabbath.。
But this is not just any random Sabbath.。
As you know, there are 52 weeks in the year.。
So there are 52 Sabbaths in one year, which one it is.。
Just now I said this particular day,。
the feast of first fruit,。
it's actually linked all the way back to the Passover event.。
So for Israelites, every year after Passover,。
they're going to celebrate this,。
also this festival called the Unleavened Bread.。
And also there will be a day。
that is the feast of first fruits.。
It happens all within a week.。
So this feast of first fruit, it's actually celebrated。
or this offering, it's done on the day。
following the Sabbath after the Passover.。
Does that ring a bell for anyone?。
Okay, let me ask you this question.。
When was Jesus betrayed and captured?。
What was he doing right before he was captured?。
He was praying, what was he doing before he was praying?。
He was having the Passover meal with his disciples.。
Jesus was actually captured and betrayed。
on the night of Passover.。
And then the very next day he was shrouded。
and he was nailed on the cross.。
He was crucified and that was Good Friday, right?。
We just remember Good Friday about a week ago.。
And that was Good Friday.。
And the soldiers or whoever the authorities,。
they have to quickly remove his body from the cross。
and put it in the tomb because after Good Friday,。
the very next day was actually Sabbath.。
They were not supposed to do any work on Sabbath.。
So they have to deal with the body as soon as possible.。
And guess what happened the day after Sabbath,。
which is a Sunday, which we now know as Easter.。
That was the day when the body of Christ。
was raised from dead to life.。
In other words, the resurrection actually happened。
on the feast of the first fruits.。
You see, when God ordained the feast of the first fruits,。
like thousands of years before Jesus even walked on earth,。
he already planned this.。
That after the Passover, after the suffering,。
there was one day that resurrection was gonna take place.。
And church, you know what?。
We always talk about Jesus being the Passover lamb,。
that he sacrificed himself,。
that he took our sin on the cross.。
We talked about Jesus as that lamb,。
on God's lamb.。
We talk about his role in the Passover, removing our sins.。
But Paul here, he reminded us one thing,。
that Jesus, the resurrected Jesus,。
he was also the first fruit.。
And if you think about the meaning。
of the feast of first fruits,。
it's for people to bring their offering to God。
and wave it to God and offer their first fruit to God。
and say, God, I know you have provided this first fruit,。
and I know in the same way。
you're gonna provide the harvest this year.。
That was what it means.。
It means that God has provided Jesus,。
the resurrected body of Jesus, as the first fruit.。
And in the same way, there is a guarantee.。
We trust in God that there's gonna be a harvest。
of resurrected body in the age to come.。
And Paul was saying that that was when Jesus comes back.。
Those who belong to him will experience the exact same thing.。
The harvest will be the exact same experience。
as the resurrection body of Jesus.。
So Jesus being the first fruit and saying,。
hey, you know what?。
Now, he is our guarantee.。
We know that he was raised in bodily.。
And so we know that one day at the end of time,。
when Jesus comes back again on that day,。
we know our bodies, our dead body,。
not just dying, probably very dead,。
our very dead bodies would rise again.。
It's this body, this flesh that would rise again.。
And so this is what Paul was trying to communicate。
to us Christ as the first fruit.。
He is the guarantee of the full harvest,。
the future bodily resurrection of all。
who belong to him at his coming.。
And just as those who approach the feast of first fruits,。
knowing that God is the one who provided first sheaf。
and he will provide the full harvest now,。
we can know for sure that God is the one who gave us Jesus,。
who raised Jesus from the dead。
and he will also raise us from the dead。
like bodily, physically one day.。
And in other words,。
God has already raised Jesus from the dead,。
but he's yet to raise you and me。
or whoever we knew that has passed from the dead.。
Perhaps you have heard these two phrases。
or terms in the same sentence before already,。
but not yet.。
This phrase or this terms was used to describe。
the tension that Christians are facing。
when the kingdom of God had been inaugurated。
through Jesus's life, death and resurrection。
that we already experienced that redemption。
and the renewal in the present。
because of what Jesus has done.。
Last week we celebrated our baptism.。
There are five people getting baptized。
and I've read some of the testimonies.。
It's all beautiful stories of how Jesus came。
and changed their lives,。
turned things upside down for them.。
They have experienced the transformative power of Jesus,。
of his cross.。
And this is something because of what Jesus has done。
in the past, because of something that has already happened.。
Now we can experience that already.。
We can already experience the power of transformation。
in your life, in my life as well,。
but there awaits the ultimate fulfillment。
of this future resurrection, this final judgment。
and the restoration of all things.。
This is yet to happen.。
This is the not yet of this tension.。
And I do wanna highlight this word tension。
that I mentioned here.。
The reality of physical death as human experience,。
despite the spiritual born again experience in Jesus。
and the victory that overseen in death that we share in him,。
that's a real tension in life.。
We know we have that power to overcome sin and death,。
but yet we're still experiencing physical death。
in this lifetime.。
That reality brings separation between us and our loved ones.。
It creates a tremendous sense of loss,。
even a four year old would understand,。
even a four year old would express。
that kind of sense of loss,。
that kind of shock or that kind of sadness.。
Yeah, that sense of sadness,。
that sense of frustration,。
that sense of shock and even fear,。
it's real in our lives.。
Maybe we have felt that before.。
We experience physical weakness。
and loss of strength and energy as we're aging.。
We become weaker and weaker.。
You can feel that I no longer run as fast as I used to,。
can't finish 10K as fast as I used to.。
I'm feeling, oh, I can't really push that much of weight。
'cause I'm not training with Benedict and Ivan,。
not training enough, so I'm feeling weak.。
I can feel that.。
But I'm sure some of us,。
we've had the experience of standing next to a deathbed。
and watching life being like sucked out。
of someone we do care a lot about.。
The experience of death, physical death, is so real.。
It becomes a tension in a Christian life.。
And we have yet to experience。
or witness any bodily resurrection in our midst.。
We haven't seen it.。
It could be so hard for us to imagine。
what resurrection actually looks like。
'cause we haven't seen it, picture it.。
We haven't witnessed it ourselves in our lifetime.。
But on the other hand,。
I think it's easier for us。
to witness spiritual transformation.。
We would understand what it means。
to be spiritually born again.。
We could feel the presence of the Holy Spirit,。
kumbaya, oh God, I feel so warm in my heart.。
I can feel that.。
We could see the fruits of spirit in our lives.。
Wow, Chapman, you look different.。
Not just like (speaks in foreign language)。
but oh, you're more gentle.。
He said, oh yeah,。
because there's the fruit of the spirit in my heart.。
You can experience that.。
You can see literal transformation。
and changes in people's life.。
It's real.。
We can experience that.。
And sometimes, because that's what we can experience。
or understand or feel,。
we gradually focus more on what we can experience。
and witness.。
We focus more on the spiritual aspect of salvation。
to a point that we anchor our beliefs of our future。
solely in the spiritual.。
Well, this can lead to a view of death like,。
oh, when I die, I know I'm going to heaven.。
Or my soul is going to heaven.。
Or what about your body?。
Oh, I don't know.。
My body will just be burned into ashes.。
And then I don't know what I'm gonna do with my ashes.。
Maybe in a container, maybe in a garden.。
My body will be no more.。
But my soul, my soul will be in heaven,。
like with Jesus.。
I'll be with him.。
That's kind of a view of afterlife.。
Well, this is a very popular view.。
It's even a line to take when we're sharing the gospel。
with people around us,。
maybe with our friends and family.。
Hey, you wanna believe in Jesus?。
If you believe in Jesus, after you die,。
your soul is going to heaven.。
That's what we tell people.。
It's very popular.。
Yet, I would say it's not the most。
biblically accurate statement.。
That's what the Corinthian church。
was actually struggling as well.。
Let me tell you this.。
This church, the Corinthian church,。
they were in a part of the world called the Roman Empire.。
And so in Roman Empire,。
they're affected by the Greco-Roman philosophy.。
In the Greco-Roman philosophy,。
they see the world as two parts,。
or they see that there are two worlds,。
bear with me, this is philosophy.。
Are you ready?。
This is Western philosophy.。
Okay, tell the person next to you,。
hey, you're gonna be a philosopher after this.。
No, you're not.。
Right, so there are two parts of the world.。
There is the spiritual world.。
That's the beautiful, that's the perfect world.。
And there's the material world.。
Spiritual, immaterial,。
and then you have the physical world, the material world.。
Or material world, I tell you,。
it's created by the lesser gods.。
It's not as good, it will corrupt.。
See, look at your body.。
That's the best proof.。
You get wrinkles, you get pimples,。
you get, you know, your skin get like bad,。
and you know, you get old,。
and your body decay or deteriorate at first.。
And you know that that's the proof。
that the material world is not as good。
as the spiritual world.。
And that's how the Greco-Roman people。
understand their everyday life,。
or their world.。
And so if you tell the Corinthian church。
that you know what, you guys are going。
to have your body resurrected,。
they'll be like, are you kidding me?。
My body?。
I don't need it.。
I just need my spirit.。
Oh, my spirit in heaven with God.。
My body, oh, my body is bad, it's corrupted.。
It's just gonna like decay there.。
I don't need my body anymore.。
They had a hard time believing。
that there is actually a bodily resurrection.。
And so if you go back and read Go Home。
and read chapter 15 of 1 Corinthians,。
you will see that Paul tried to,。
he actually spent the first half of the chapter。
arguing, hey, guys, hey, dude,。
there is actually bodily resurrection.。
What else do you think Jesus is doing here?。
He was trying to convince them.。
But what is interesting is that after 2,000 years,。
our view of body and spirit, body and soul,。
it's not too much of a difference。
from those people 2,000 years ago.。
We sometimes, even a church, so popular to say that,。
when we die, our spirit, our soul will go to heaven,。
be with Jesus, and you don't know where your body goes.。
Maybe you will just get burned and died and somewhere.。
We also share a similar view.。
We also have a slightly not very biblical view of afterlife.。
And that's what Paul was trying to tell his church.。
One of the theologians of our time in the UK,。
his name is N.T. Wright, he wrote this,。
which is quite on point about this problem.。
He says, "One of the greatest difficulty。
"in preaching the gospel in our days。
"is that everyone assumes that the name of the game,。
"it's ultimately to go to heaven when you die,。
"as though there were the last act in the drama.。
"But that's wrong.。
"Heaven is important, but it's not the end of the world.。
"God will make new heavens and new earth。
"and give us new bodies to live and work。
"and take delight in his new creation."。
Heaven is important, going to heaven, yes,。
that's great, but that's not the end game.。
That's not all, not just your soul going somewhere.。
So scripture ultimately promises。
not just a disembodied soul in heaven,。
but a resurrected body in a renewed creation.。
Let me say that again.。
Christian scripture, the view of afterlife。
that we actually teach is this,。
that is a promise that is not just a disembodied soul。
in heaven, but a resurrected body in a renewed creation.。
This is what God wants for us, what he has planned for us,。
what Jesus has died for, when he became the first fruits.。
That's the guarantee of what we are going to get.。
We need to know that God was the one。
who created physical bodies for humans in the first place.。
And God saw our bodies, and he said,。
Genesis chapter one says, "It is good."。
When God looked at our body, he says, "It is good."。
Humans, we're not souls trapped in flesh,。
but we're unified beings.。
In Hebrew, there is a word called nefesh.。
Like in Genesis two, I think it's verse seven,。
it says, "It's a living soul."。
God intended for our soul and our flesh。
to be united, to be one.。
We are unified being, soul and flesh together.。
But then our body was also corrupted。
by the fall of humanity, and we all know that.。
And because of sin coming into the world。
through the fall of humanity, diseases, death,。
and all the problems came into the world as well.。
And we start to experience all the sickness, aging,。
yeah, aging and physical decay, and all chronic illness.。
We experience like disability,。
or experience our bodies get weaker and weaker as we age.。
But that's not the original plan of God.。
That's not his original design for us.。
It's the consequences of a fractured world.。
Human bodies are broken because of our sins,。
but human bodies were not evil in its nature.。
Let me say that again.。
Our bodies are broken because of our sin.。
So we are experiencing sickness, aging, death,。
all these issues, but our bodies are not evil in nature.。
That's not how God sees it.。
He's not here to destroy our body.。
That's not how he sees.。
And when Jesus came into the world, word became flesh.。
He took on a bodily form.。
He took on human flesh.。
If human flesh is evil,。
Jesus would definitely not take on human flesh.。
But word became flesh.。
And when Jesus was ministering on earth,。
when he was walking around,。
he started manifesting the kingdom of God。
through one of his ministry called healing,。
restoring bodily or restoring physical health。
for individuals, for people.。
That is to say, that is a sign to say,。
hey, you know what?。
You wanna know when the kingdom of God fully comes to earth?。
You wanna know how it looks?。
It looks like this.。
This is a sign when sickness and disease。
and death was reverted.。
When someone is healed,。
when he experienced physical shalom,。
that's the kingdom of God at hand.。
And so Jesus was healing people。
as a sign for them to know that。
this is the ultimate reality that God has planned for us.。
And not just that, when Jesus rose from the dead,。
he didn't have a spiritual resurrection.。
He had a bodily resurrection.。
He even asked his disciples, hey, come touch me, touch me.。
It's me in my body.。
It's a bodily resurrection.。
And we need to know this.。
God is not rejecting our bodies.。
He's not rejecting human bodies.。
God's plan was never to reject them.。
God's plan is to redeem our bodies.。
Let me say that again.。
God's plan is not to reject human bodies.。
His plan is to redeem our bodies because he created them。
and he saw that was good.。
And if our body, it's part of God's salvation plans,。
if it actually matters to God,。
then how we treat our bodies would actually matter as well.。
Don't you agree?。
Since our bodies are not disposable or temporary shells。
but we're destined for redemption,。
how we treat our bodies today matters.。
I'm going to talk about a few ways。
that we could treat our bodies。
or learn from the theology of our body。
that I just spent 15 minutes to unpack.。
I'm going to share a few practical tips for us.。
So number one, we should be honoring God。
with our bodies today.。
That includes like pursuing purity.。
You know, in 1 Corinthians 6, it says that your body,。
don't you know that your body is the temple。
of the Holy Spirit?。
Don't you know that, you know, in Romans 12 says this,。
do you know that you should give God your body。
to honor him, to worship him?。
Didn't you know that we should honor God。
with our bodies today, pursue purity,。
get away from sexual immorality?。
That is something that hurts us deeply in our flesh。
and we should also care for our physical health。
and the sense of stewardship.。
And we're not idolizing health.。
I know there are like many things you can do about health。
and some people, they really,。
oh, I don't care how it's most important.。
Maybe for some people, health or wellbeing,。
it's more important than God, but we're not doing that.。
We're just trying to take good care of our bodies。
as good stewards of what God has given us,。
knowing that this is God's temple, he stays there.。
And so we know we need to rest when we're tired.。
Don't drink soft drinks, drink more water.。
I learned that from Cristiano Ronaldo.。
It's a good motto on that.。
A good nutrition.。
Yeah, these are the basic stuff,。
but these are the things people have forgotten,。
that we are treating our bodies so bad。
in a way that we are hurting our bodies.。
We're saying, I don't care what happens to you。
as long as my soul goes to heaven.。
No, we need to treat this.。
We need to know that God is here to redeem our body.。
And so we're not here to worship fitness,。
but we're here to honor the Holy Spirit who lives inside.。
So we honor God with our bodies。
and we need to see physical suffering。
with hope and not despair.。
Like I know sometimes we ourselves,。
we experience sickness or illness.。
Or the painful fact that one day you find out like,。
oh, I'm aging.。
I can see it on my forehead.。
I can see it when I go to gym.。
I can sense it.。
I know my body is deteriorating.。
And sometimes even sickness that we don't wanna face,。
some terminal illness.。
One day you find out, oh, I've got this condition.。
I know it's painful.。
I know it's challenging.。
I know it's not easy.。
And sometimes they feel so real.。
Or most of the time they feel very, very real.。
I've had the experience.。
I mean, I had family members who went through that.。
I know what it does to not just the person,。
but the family around them.。
But when we are going through physical suffering,。
we need to know they're not the end of the story.。
No matter how loud they're speaking to us,。
that's not the end of our story here.。
The world tries to tell us when you die, you die.。
There's nothing else.。
So you better do something,。
make people remember you, make memories.。
These are not bad advice,。
but we also know that that's not the end of the story.。
Death and cancer and diseases and a deterioration,。
they don't have the final word in our lives.。
I know that even one day we close our eyes and we passed on,。
but the day when Jesus, on the day when he returns,。
I know that this body, this dead body,。
very dead body, maybe ash,。
I don't know where my body would be,。
but this body will experience resurrection,。
a bodily resurrection.。
And I know that one day we're gonna stand somewhere,。
I don't know where, but somewhere in a new bodily form.。
Paul was describing, you know what?。
That old form, it's weak, but the new one is glorious.。
This one is perishable,。
but what you're gonna get is imperishable.。
Paul was trying to tell you, hey,。
that body that Jesus received, that resurrected body,。
that's the same body you're gonna get.。
So whatever you're facing right now,。
maybe you're passing on from this life,。
but you have to know that that's not the end.。
If you're thinking about life。
as though the day that the doctor gave you,。
the amount of time the doctor gave you。
is how much time you have, you need to think larger,。
you need to think eternity,。
you need to know that there is something else there.。
You got a lot more time to spend when Jesus comes back.。
There should be hope and not despair.。
In Romans, Paul was saying like,。
we groan inwardly as we wait eagerly。
for the adoption of a sonship for that glory。
and the redemption of our bodies.。
We are waiting patiently。
for that redemption of our bodies.。
But in the same chapter, Paul was also describing,。
you know what, you guys are not just the only ones。
that is waiting for God's renewal.。
In fact, the entire creation of God。
has been groaning with you.。
They are also waiting for that day。
for God's glory to reveal,。
for the sons, for the children of God to reveal。
so that they would receive that renewal as well.。
We preach a sermon on that,。
on justice and creation last year.。
You can go back to YouTube and check on it.。
But here's the thing that, you know,。
we're not the only ones who are waiting。
for this renewal or resurrection.。
God is going to renew us, resurrect us,。
but God is going to, on that day,。
he's going to renew his entire creation as well.。
So if you're on God's team,。
what you should be thinking is,。
how am I gonna minister this renewal,。
this redemption of God's work over the entire creation,。
rather than, oh, you know what,。
this world is gonna end anyway.。
Maybe someone will press a button。
and there will be a nuclear bomb,。
or you know, pollution, you know,。
climate change, or this world is doomed,。
so I don't have to do anything,。
or I can just, you know, just do it the same way,。
continue to enjoy my life.。
If you're really on God's side,。
if you take your place at his side,。
you know that his heart is to redeem,。
and his heart is to save that creation.。
So if you take your place as the steward of God's family,。
we actually have a place,。
we actually have a role to play in his creation.。
We are waiting for our own bodily resurrection,。
but we also have a role to play。
in the redemption of the creation.。
And so you can respect your body,。
you can treat your body better,。
knowing that this is how you honor God.。
You pursue purity, and you know that。
even when you're facing sickness, or death, or suffering,。
you know that you hold onto that hope。
that one day God is gonna come and make things right,。
but then also you need to know。
that you're not the only one waiting for that day.。
The entire creation has been waiting with you.。
And so what we can do is to find a place in it.。
So in December, when I was in the car,。
when my daughter asked me that question,。
are we all gonna die?。
Like, I was just praying,。
and I felt like answering her question this way.。
I said, yeah, you know what?。
As human beings, we all die.。
We all leave this earth someday,。
and we'll have to say goodbye, it's gonna be sad.。
But that's actually one way of life, if you stick with it.。
There's a person, if you stay with that person。
your entire life, if you try to build relationship。
with him every day, a deeper and deeper relationship,。
if you follow his ways, his name is Jesus,。
if you do that, if you dedicate your entire life to do that,。
one day when death comes, you'll actually be ready.。
You'll not be afraid.。
You'll know that, yeah, I know today is the day。
that I'm leaving this earth, that I'm passing on,。
but I'm not afraid.。
There's no regret in me.。
I can greet my creator, I can greet my savior。
with a grin on my face.。
I'll tell him, yes, I've been waiting for you.。
You are the one I've been longing to see my entire life,。
face to face, and I know one day when your time comes,。
when you come back to earth,。
I'll receive the resurrection of my body with you,。
and I'll continue to see all my loved ones face to face。
in a new body again.。
That's the day I'm waiting for.。
That's the day I'm preparing my family for,。
and that's the day God wants us as his family。
to get ready for.。
If we know what's gonna happen the day when he's coming back,。
if we understand Jesus being the first fruit,。
if we understand what that means,。
a guarantee that we will all experience the same thing。
that he has experienced on Easter Sunday,。
on the feast of first fruits,。
that should affect how we're spending our everyday.。
That should affect how we live our life.。
Don't you agree, church?。
Why don't we spend some time to pray together now?。
Father, we come before you.。
We thank you for the first fruits.。
Father, we thank you that the resurrection of Jesus。
is indeed the first fruits,。
and when we look at that,。
when we look at his resurrection,。
we have the guarantee, we know for sure that one day。
that's exactly the same thing we will experience as well.。
And so, Father, today we come before you.。
I just feel like praying for some of us in the midst.。
Maybe you're struggling with the fear of death,。
fear of a disease, fear of the weakness。
that you're experiencing in your body,。
fear of aging, perhaps.。
I wanna pray for you that today you know the truth,。
you know God's plan, and the truth will set you free。
from the fear you're experiencing.。
That when you look at the first fruits,。
when you look at Jesus, you have the assurance。
that you will get a new body,。
you will experience the resurrection,。
and there's life after death.。
Not just a spiritual, like, flowing and floating。
in the air kind of life, but you will get a new body,。
and you will be enjoying life in God's new creation.。
There's real hope.。
(gentle music)。
And you don't have to live according to your fears,。
you don't have to be driven。
by what you're afraid would happen in the end to you.。
You know there is something else waiting for you.。
Father, I pray you would come and set us free。
from the fear of death, from the fear of disease,。
from our illness, weakness,。
the fear of being old,。
that we know there's an eternity awaits for us.。
(gentle music)。
Father, I pray that knowledge of your truth。
will transform our lives,。
will change the way we think,。
change the way we speak,。
will change our lifestyle,。
will change how we plan our days,。
how we plan our everyday schedule,。
change the way we spend time with friends and family,。
(gentle music)。
I pray that today you will put your eternity in our hearts.。
In Jesus' name I pray, amen.。
(gentle music)。
