Thank you, Justin. Good morning, church.。
As always, it's an honor to be here to talk, to share God's word with you guys,。
but we need to talk, church.。
Now, these four words, "We need to talk," can strike fear into people's hearts。
because usually when you say these words within a relationship,。
it means something has gone wrong, something needs addressing.。
So this morning, I'm here to say, "We need to talk."。
Now, don't worry too much, okay? I'm not breaking up with you guys。
and going to Island ECC or anything like that, okay?。
Don't worry. It's not about that.。
But we need to talk because as I've looked around me,。
it's obvious that relationships on every level are suffering.。
The past years we've had of social and political unrest。
added to the stress of COVID has caused some deep hurt and suffering。
and distrust amongst relationships on every single level.。
Society has become divided, highly distrustful and suspicious of each other.。
When we meet people, we ask questions like,。
"Well, where does this person sit politically?。
Has this person been vaccinated? Are those allergies or do they have COVID?"。
And all these things added to the already cutthroat,。
winner-takes-all survival of the fittest mentality。
that seems to drive our city has led to us being colder,。
more selfish and self-serving.。
Of course, this isn't new.。
First century Israel knew exactly what it was like to live in divided times.。
Within Jewish culture was embedded a great deal of division.。
Men and women would not interact with each other publicly.。
Slavery and the abuse of human rights was a significant issue.。
There was a massive divide between the rich and the poor.。
People who were deemed as unclean were shunned。
and unable to participate with normal community activities.。
Certain professions were looked down upon.。
And then from a religious perspective,。
within Judaism were the sects of the Pharisees, the Sadducees and the Essenes,。
all which had slightly varieting theologies。
about what they believed about God and the afterlife and all that kind of stuff.。
Then, of course, there was a division between Jews and Gentiles。
and the Samaritans, and there was so much antagonism over.。
Then frame all of this with the evil Roman Empire governing their land,。
and you might begin to see why life in first century Israel。
was divided and segregated.。
And this is why when Jesus began his ministry,。
he caused a lot of problems because he encouraged everyone to love,。
he encouraged people to serve, to be in relationship with each other,。
no matter who they were.。
That was Jesus' message, constantly and provocatively, proactively,。
reaching out and loving even up to his enemies.。
He showed love, he showed care unconditionally,。
regardless of race, gender, social status or beliefs.。
And we, as his followers' church, have been called to do the same.。
And so this is what we need to talk about.。
Because as I said, at this moment in Hong Kong,。
there is an opportunity.。
Relationships are broken,。
and we have been called to do for our society what Jesus did for his.。
So this is why over the next six weeks,。
we're going to look at different gospel messages。
to see exactly how Jesus challenged the status quo。
and how Jesus challenged people out of their comfort zones。
in order for us to learn to do the same for our city and our context.。
Now, the danger, of course, is if we don't do anything about this,。
these divisions settle in.。
And as a result, we build up walls that are so high and so strong。
that we're unable to connect and love each other.。
But as we said, this would grieve God's heart.。
Because we, as his followers, as his church,。
have been called to be reconcilers, haven't we?。
To be peacemakers, to bring God's kingdom on earth as it is in heaven,。
to love as he has first loved us.。
So this series is going to look at all different sections of relationship.。
It's going to call and challenge us to act,。
because we want to see relationships redeemed and restored。
in the name of Jesus, amen?。
We want to see a society that genuinely cares for the well-being of each other.。
We want to see people being able to live sacrificially.。
We want a church that truly functions as the body of Christ.。
We want to see healthy, thriving families.。
We want to see a church that unashamedly lives for Jesus.。
And ultimately, we want to know and love,。
we want to know the love of Christ。
and be the example of how we approach and treat each other.。
That is our heart for this sermon series over the next few weeks.。
And so to kick things off,。
we're going to start with the story of the Good Samaritan.。
Now, I know it's a well-known story,。
but let's remind ourselves of it again before we carry on.。
Listen carefully, Luke 10, 25 to 37,。
and you can read along on the screen or on your device,。
on your Bible, if you have one.。
Luke 10, 25, it starts like this.。
"On this one occasion, an expert in the law stood up to test Jesus.。
'Teacher,' he said, 'what must I do to inherit eternal life?'。
'What is written in the law?' Jesus replied.。
'How do you read it?'。
He answered, 'Love the Lord your God with all your heart,。
with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind,。
and love your neighbor as yourself.'。
'You have answered correctly,' Jesus replied.。
'Do this and you will live.'。
But he wanted to justify himself.。
So he asked Jesus, 'And who is my neighbor?'。
'In reply,' Jesus said,。
'While a man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho,。
where he was attacked by robbers,。
they stripped him of his clothes,。
beat him, and went away, leaving him half dead.。
A priest happened to be going down the same road,。
and when he saw the man, he passed on by the other side.。
So too a Levite, when he came to the place,。
and saw him, passed by on the other side.。
But a Samaritan, as he traveled, came to where the man was,。
and when he saw him, he took pity on him.。
He went to him, bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine.。
He put the man on his own donkey, brought him to an inn,。
and took care of him.。
The next day he took out two denarii and gave it to the innkeeper.。
'Look after him,' he said, 'and when I return,。
I will reimburse you for any extra expense you might have.'。
'Which of these three do you think was the neighbor。
to the man who fell into the hands of the robbers?'。
The expert in the law replied, 'The one who had mercy on him.'。
Jesus told him, 'Go and do likewise.'"。
So a few years back, when Pastor Tim first arrived back into Hong Kong,。
Pastor Tim and I have known each other for some years.。
We spent some time in ministry here in Hong Kong.。
He went back to Germany and the US and came back.。
And so when he came back to Hong Kong,。
my wife and I, Brittany, were there to welcome him at the airport.。
Remember those tides when we used to welcome people at the airport?。
So we were waiting for Tim and we were looking around。
and we saw a man going, you know, we were in the arrivals hall。
and there was those escalators that go up to the departures,。
lounge, and the check-in area.。
So this was a man, you know, he was standing by himself going up the escalator.。
He was standing there like this with his hands by his side.。
But as he was going up the escalator, he was looking a bit wobbly,。
a bit like this, you know, wobble, wibble, wobble.。
And then suddenly, he face-planted, straight down, hands by his side,。
like a plank, boom, face down, making the loudest noise,。
hitting the escalator, face first.。
And I saw this happen in front of my very eyes, okay?。
Bang, hit the escalator.。
Now, a few people around me also noticed what was going on,。
but I saw them do this and they quickly looked away,。
pretended like they didn't see anything.。
I did not know what to do, okay?。
I'm not a doctor, I'm not really first aid trained or anything like that,。
but just instinctively, I thought, "Well, I have to go and check on this guy."。
So I ran up there to see if he was okay.。
And when I got there, he was lift.。
Someone had pressed the emergency stop button,。
but he was just laying there, like stiff as a board,。
just laying there face down on the escalator.。
A little pool of blood had started to form around his face.。
So I was like, "Oh my gosh, it was something like a movie,。
like what happened?"。
And I reached closer, I was going to tap, I didn't want to move him,。
I didn't know what to do, and I was about to tap him on the shoulder.。
When he suddenly woke up, he turned around, he was like,。
"Oh, I need another whiskey!"。
True story, okay? It was like it was out of a movie.。
So thankfully, in the end, he was fine.。
He seemed to have a very nasty scratch on his face,。
but to be honest, the whiskey he had in him already。
probably helped ease the pain a little bit, all right?。
But I tell you this story。
because we've probably all faced similar situations before.。
We see another person in need,。
and in those moments, we need to decide, "Well, what do we do?"。
Do we engage with what's happening,。
or do we try and help,。
or do we pretend like we don't see anything happening。
and look the other way and carry on ourselves?。
Now, on the surface, the good Samaritan story。
seems to be teaching this lesson, saying that。
we should always be ready to help others in need,。
always be ready to help.。
And to be honest, that's not a bad lesson.。
If we learn this simple rule alone,。
the world itself would be a much better place.。
So there you have it, the shortest Vine sermon ever.。
This is what happens when Andrew is away.。
Thank you very much.。
You can go off to lunch now, and worship team's gonna...。
That's not all, though.。
Because, church, helping others is just the bare minimum.。
And in fact, this parable has so much more to say。
than simply being a helpful human being to those around you.。
So let's find out, okay?。
We're gonna dig into the scripture a little bit,。
walk with me through it,。
'cause we're gonna find out。
what it's really trying to communicate to us.。
We start again in verse 25.。
"On one occasion, an expert in the law stood up to test Jesus.。
He asked him a question.。
'Teacher,' he asked, 'what must I do to inherit eternal life?'"。
What a question.。
Now, the gospel is full of questions.。
Apparently, in the gospel,。
according to my Logos Bible concordance,。
there are 187 questions that Jesus is asked。
throughout the four gospels.。
Well, questions are good.。
Actually, there's people who are professionals at asking questions.。
Two groups of people, I think,。
are the best question askers in the world.。
The first are toddlers, okay?。
Toddlers love to ask why.。
Why, why, why, why?。
Why this, why that?。
Why, why, why?。
And for the first few minutes, a toddler asks why.。
It's kind of cute, right?。
But then, really quickly, it gets kind of annoying.。
So that's the first professional question askers.。
The second group of professional question askers are lawyers.。
They, too, like to ask things like why, when, how, who, what.。
And for the first few minutes, it's pretty helpful,。
but very quickly, it becomes very expensive.。
Questions can be a beautiful thing, right?。
If you ask the right questions in the proper context。
or the right intentions,。
it can lead to these lovely, life-giving conversations.。
These are the type of questions。
that strong, trusting relationships are built upon.。
Good questions.。
Questions that address the heart。
and allow you to share freely about yourself.。
On the other hand, though,。
questions can be used to attack,。
to intimidate,。
to intrude into another person's life.。
Questions can be used to make others look incompetent。
and make ourselves look better.。
In this instance, we have Jesus being questioned by a lawyer.。
But we need to notice the motivation。
for him asking Jesus this question.。
He's not trying to build a relationship with Jesus.。
Instead, he's trying to do the latter.。
This verse tells us that he's trying to test Jesus.。
Now, the word "test" is the same word used in Luke 4:12。
to describe the devil's temptation of Jesus.。
In other words, this isn't a regular questioning session.。
There is something sinister。
about the way this lawyer is approaching Jesus.。
And it says, "So this expert of the law。
is trying to get Jesus to say the wrong thing。
so he can accuse Jesus of some sort of false teaching."。
Again, the question at hand is this.。
"What must I do to inherit eternal life?"。
Now, this was a pretty standard question。
for the people in Jesus' time.。
So there was a pretty standard answer.。
This is what he's trying to see.。
Is Jesus going to give the standard answer?。
Or is he going to say something else?。
But Jesus sees this as a trap.。
And so he doesn't engage with it.。
He's not going to fall for this trap.。
Instead, he turns the question back around to this lawyer.。
And to his credit, this guy is a lawyer.。
He knows his stuff pretty well.。
Jesus says to the man, "Well, what do you think?。
What's written in the law?。
How do you read it?"。
He answered, "Love the Lord your God。
with all your heart, with all your soul,。
with all your strength, and with all your mind.。
And love your neighbor as yourself."。
"You have answered correctly," Jesus replied.。
"Do this and you will live."。
It's a classic Jesus move, right?。
He answers a question with a question of his own.。
This was the ideal answer.。
This was the thing that all Jewish kids。
would have learned growing up and held on to as adults.。
The first part of this answer is, of course, the Shema,。
Deuteronomy 6, 5.。
"Hear, O Israel, the Lord your God, the Lord is one.。
Love the Lord your God with all your heart,。
mind, soul, and strength."。
The cornerstone verse of the Jewish faith.。
Everyone would have known this verse.。
Everyone would have memorized this。
as part of their cultural identity.。
The Shema, like I said, the key,。
the cornerstone of the Jewish faith.。
But to the Shema, he adds a quote from Leviticus 19.18.。
"Love your neighbor as yourself."。
And when you put these two together,。
you've come up with the golden rule,。
the best answer ever.。
It's such a good answer that Jesus quotes。
these two passages exactly when he himself is asked,。
"Well, what's the greatest commandment?"。
Mark 12.29, he gives the same answer.。
"Do this," Jesus says, "and you will live."。
In other words, if you can follow this golden rule,。
you will inherit the eternal life that you're hoping for.。
But like I said, it's not as simple as that.。
This isn't where the story ends.。
And it's at this point we begin to see the true motivations。
exactly why this lawyer was asking Jesus these questions.。
It tells us this in verse 29.。
"But he wanted to justify himself."。
He wanted to appear righteous before Jesus。
and everyone else who was around him。
so people would know that he himself,。
he had done enough to get this eternal life.。
I mean, after all, this was a guy in high standing.。
He was a religious leader.。
He was righteous in the eyes of others.。
No doubt that he would inherit this inheritance, right,。
from the Lord, this eternal life he was seeking.。
So by him asking Jesus, "Who is my neighbor?"。
His intention wasn't really to find out who his neighbor was。
so that he could go and love them and serve them.。
What he was really trying to say was this,。
"You know what, Jesus, I already know who my neighbor is.。
They're the people who are just like me.。
You know, I give a little bit to the poor。
and all that kind of stuff.。
I do my duty there.。
But I'll have you know that I'm already doing all the right things.。
So just go ahead and tell everyone here that I'm doing fine。
and that I'm going to get eternal life."。
He felt like he had it all sorted out.。
He felt like he was already doing good enough.。
Now, we need to stop and think here for a minute.。
How would you have answered the question,。
"How or what must I do to get eternal life?"。
If we translated this question into slightly more modern-day context,。
it might sound like, "Well, how can I make sure that I get into heaven?"。
This is a question we ask ourselves often as Christians.。
This is a question that you've asked other people.。
This might even be something you use when it comes to evangelism.。
You know that good old question when you ask someone else,。
"Do you know what?。
If you died today, do you know where you would end up?"。
That question.。
I used to think that was a great way to start a gospel conversation。
until I was in a taxi one time,。
and I was trying to be all evangelistic,。
and I talked to the taxi driver,。
and I said, "Do you know where you're going to end up if you die today?"。
And the taxi driver thought I was going to rob him or something.。
He got so scared.。
He's like, "What are you talking about?。
Why are you asking me these strange questions?"。
But here's the catch, church.。
Yes, it might sound righteous on the outside,。
but this question,。
and it revealed something about the Lord's heart too,。
was really selfish because it was all about Himself.。
The expert in the Lord might have appeared righteous,。
might have sounded good on the outside,。
but His heart wasn't in the right place.。
And church, we are in danger of putting ourselves in the same situation.。
Why do we follow and believe in Jesus?。
Why do we come to church each Sunday?。
Why do we sing worship songs?。
Because if making it into heaven or getting eternal life,。
doing the bare minimum,。
loving people who are just like you,。
is the only motivation for believing in Jesus,。
then I would say we have it twisted.。
In fact, I would even say that if getting into heaven is our only motivation,。
we have fundamentally misunderstood what it means to follow Jesus.。
Let me explain.。
As we said earlier,。
there are lots of divisions and walls to our relationships within our own society.。
If we use the phrase, "Look out for number one," right?。
This could easily be the motto for Hong Kong.。
Remember during the early stages of COVID when everybody lost their minds?。
I mean, it was scary out there, we know,。
but we were hoarding food,。
we were buying more toilet paper than you could use in a lifetime.。
People were scared, people were hoarding,。
people were just looking out for themselves.。
What about the business sector?。
I am not a businessman,。
but from what it seems and what I hear,。
relationships in this area seem to be pretty transactional, aren't they?。
And yes, I know, perhaps this is just how business works.。
But when we start to function in this mode,。
we start to see relationships as a means to an end.。
And we begin, we're beginning,。
sorry, we build relationships not because we genuinely care for each other,。
but because we want to gain something.。
And if we enter into a relationship that serves no profit for me,。
it's got no benefit for me,。
well then, peace out, I'm gone.。
What about the dating world?。
Again, I haven't been in the dating world for a long time now,。
but I don't know much in this area,。
but from what I ask my friends who are out there dating,。
the scene is rough.。
Because it seems as though people don't seem to be interested。
in committed long-term relationships,。
or very afraid to do so.。
It might spark up a conversation,。
slide into the DMs,。
and then just ghost you for no reason.。
So instead of dating to build strong relationships,。
to get to know each other,。
dating is used as a means to an end,。
to satisfy your own needs and move on.。
We heard just now about the situation between the rich and the poor.。
This week, I'm not sure,。
you must have seen that SCMP article,。
or the article on all cross-news platforms,。
highlighting the dividing line between the rich and the poor in Hong Kong。
has widened even further.。
The richest in Hong Kong, it tells us,。
earns 40 times more than the most impoverished.。
Think about that for a moment.。
I'm not a mathematician, I'm not a lot of things, it seems like.。
But it seems like,。
what this means, it potentially takes someone 40 years。
what someone else can make in one year.。
That's ridiculous.。
But we don't even have to look that deeply.。
Just go about your everyday life.。
We see that looking out for others is quite rare.。
Ride the empty-armed bus during rush hour.。
People push, shove past kids, pregnant people, elderly to get a seat.。
It's not uncommon to see a perfectly able-bodied person。
sitting on the priority seat on public transport,。
where there's an elderly person or disabled person, a pau-pau,。
or a bak-bak, you know, who's clearly much more in need,。
stay standing, staring at that person, hoping that their seat will come up.。
Oh, but you know what? It's okay.。
We don't need to be worried about any of that, right?。
Because we come to church on Sunday.。
We give a little bit of money.。
We do Bible study.。
We have a community group.。
We pray for each other.。
We sing nice songs.。
We keep all the messy stuff out there.。
And we try our best to stay pure.。
We don't watch any bad movies, say any bad words,。
or even when we do those things,。
we don't let anyone else know about those things.。
We remain obedient and hoping that at the end,。
God will give us the way to heaven.。
That's enough, right?。
This is precisely the mentality of the expert in the law.。
And this is why Jesus' answer was about to blow his mind。
and challenge him to his very core.。
"In reply," Jesus said to this man,。
"there was a person, a man going down from Jerusalem to Jericho。
when he was attacked by robbers.。
They stripped him of his clothes, beat him, left him half dead.。
Left him half dead.。
A priest and a Levite went down that same road.。
But these two guys, when they came to them,。
saw the place, saw him.。
They both passed by on the other side.。
But a Samaritan, as he traveled, came to where the man was.。
When he saw him, he took pity on him.。
He bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine.。
And he put the man on his own donkey。
and brought him to an inn and took care of him.。
The next day, he took out two denarii。
and gave them to the innkeeper.。
'Look after him,' he said, 'and when I return,。
I will reimburse for you any extra expense that you may have.'"。
We're going to look at this section of the story。
because there are a few details。
which I really feel are important for us to understand。
in order to embrace what Jesus was trying to teach.。
So walk with me again through it.。
I'm going to try and point them out for us,。
contextualize them a little bit。
so we can embrace this story better.。
The first thing is this, a man.。
It tells us a man was going down.。
Now, Jesus doesn't indicate the background,。
the ethnicity, the social status,。
any details about this man.。
The Bible doesn't tell us.。
He is simply a man traveling from one place to another。
when he meets the misfortune of being attacked, robbed,。
and left to die.。
But I think Jesus purposely leaves the details。
out of this man ambiguous because that was his point.。
It shouldn't matter.。
Who cares who this man was?。
Who cares about this man's background?。
Who cares what his social status was?。
Who cares what his ethnicity was?。
What is important, the thing that Jesus is trying to point out。
is that he is suffering and he is in need of help.。
And the question he's asking is,。
"Who is going to help him?。
Who is going to be a neighbor for this man?"。
Well, how does that translate for us?。
Well, we have to ask ourselves the same question.。
Do we make judgments on the people who we help。
or we choose to help?。
Are we more likely to help people who are just like us?。
Are we more eager to help those who we know。
will be able to repay us back in some way,。
owe us something so we can call on them。
when we're in need later on?。
Or are we willing to see people simply for who they are?。
Hurting, in pain, victims of injustice,。
in need of someone to step in and help.。
The story also tells us this,。
the path, the geographic location,。
the road going down from Jerusalem to Jericho.。
This is also a very important detail, right?。
This was a downhill road,。
as you probably have heard。
if you've heard this story a few times,。
from Jerusalem to Jericho.。
But this was a notoriously dangerous road.。
Many hiding spots for robbers to hide。
and attack unsuspecting travelers.。
And it's a story,。
all three men are traveling from the same direction, right?。
From Jerusalem down to Jericho.。
The victim, the priest, and Levite,。
all traveling on the same road in the same direction.。
And the point is this,。
actually any of them could have become。
the victim of these robbers.。
It just so happened that the robbers。
chose to attack this man.。
Now what does this speak to us?。
As I was reading this, I was just reminded,。
actually, you know,。
any of us could become victims at any time.。
Any of us could become victims of misfortune。
or injustice at any moment.。
We live in a wild and unpredictable world.。
And just because things are going right for you。
at this moment,。
it's not guaranteed to stay that way.。
If you want to hear a few real life stories about that,。
just go and spend some time with our RISE community.。
These were men and women, just like you and me,。
who had homes, who had families, education,。
community, professions, income, living thriving lives,。
but because situations that were out of their control。
found themselves victims and in need of a good neighbor.。
We too, church, need to be mindful of this.。
One day, what if we find ourselves in need?。
Won't we all want a good neighbor to come and help us along。
in our times of help?。
Of course, there's the priest and the Levite.。
The priest and the Levite,。
two religious leaders of the time.。
These were holy men with high status。
who supposedly knew exactly what it was like。
to carry out God's law.。
They were supposed to be righteous men,。
but neither of them shows even the slightest interest。
in wanting to help.。
There's a pattern for both of them.。
It says, "They came, they saw, and they passed by."。
They came, they saw, and they passed by.。
Now imagine yourself as a victim of these robbers.。
You're lying there, half dead on the street,。
semi-conscious, and you see two holy men.。
They would have been recognizable by the way they dress.。
These two righteous men coming towards you,。
it probably would have been a welcome sight.。
"Surely," he would have said, thinking,。
"these people are here to help me.。
Rescue is here.。
I'm going to be okay."。
Only to have them not come towards you,。
but go out of the way to avoid going anywhere near them.。
Why?。
Why did these guys not stop?。
Now Luke doesn't say,。
and if you read commentaries,。
they come up with a lot of hypothetical reasons。
why they didn't stop.。
One of the explanations is that。
they were afraid of becoming unclean,。
because Jewish law says that you have to be ceremonially clean。
to participate in temple activities,。
but that doesn't really make sense,。
because of the way Jesus was telling his story,。
they were going down from Jerusalem.。
In other words, they were clocking off work,。
going back home.。
They didn't need to be clean.。
So being clean was just an excuse.。
Some commentators say that they didn't stop to help,。
because they were scared that if they stopped,。
it was a dangerous road, like we said,。
maybe they would have been victims of attack too.。
Maybe the robbers would have come to them.。
So in order to keep safe, they just kept going.。
Now, as we said,。
excuse me,。
Luke didn't say why they didn't stop.。
If you interviewed these men,。
if there was this real life situation,。
you could sit down with them,。
they probably would have given you 10 different excuses。
of why they couldn't stop to help this man.。
But those would just have been excuses.。
Again, we have to ask ourselves this question.。
What about us?。
What excuses do we come up with。
when we as believers, as a church,。
fail to help the people around us,。
fail to be the good neighbor that God has called us to be?。
It's too messy.。
It's too dangerous.。
Too many excuses.。
There will always be excuses, church,。
for why we can't be a neighbor.。
Okay, let's bring it back to a Hong Kong context.。
Cantonese speakers, I need your support for a moment.。
If you don't speak Cantonese,。
I'm going to give you a very quick Cantonese lesson,。
some basic Cantonese phrases.。
But I think this will highlight what I'm trying to say.。
There's a Cantonese term called "fongbi".。
"Fongbi" is Cantonese for "convenience".。
It's the opposite of "mafan".。
Everybody knows "mafan", right?。
"Fongbi" is the opposite of "mafan".。
Now, we live in a very fast-paced city.。
We are deathly afraid of being inconvenienced as Hong Kongers.。
Look at the amount of 7-Elevens they are.。
Just in this area alone, there's like six 7-Elevens。
within like 100 meters of each other.。
We want homes close to the MTR,。
but also close to our kids' school.。
We want supermarkets close to us.。
We want the wet market close to us.。
We want good options for food everywhere we go.。
We want fast public transport.。
Whenever something threatens our convenience,。
we say, "Oh, that's too "mafan"", and we shrink back.。
It's too out of the way.。
It's going to take too long.。
Basically, if anything is not "fongbi",。
we don't want to do it.。
Another term is this, "wun bun".。
Okay?。
"Wun bun" can be roughly translated as "to be tricked" or "to be fooled",。
which of course can cause us to lose face.。
Hong Kongers, we as Hong Kongers are afraid of "to be wun bun", right?。
We feel this, and this makes us suspicious before we help each other, doesn't it?。
I mean, we ask ourselves a question, "Does this person even need help?"。
"Kun me wun o bun, yeah?"。
Right?。
"Does this person even need help, or are they just trying to con me?"。
Like, if I actually help this person, am I going to get embarrassed afterwards?。
Where is it going to end me, helping this person?。
We're afraid of it, so we don't go near it.。
Finally, there's a term, "sit dai".。
Okay?。
"Sit dai" means "to take a loss", "to be taken advantage of".。
Again, if we want to help someone, we often ask ourselves this question, don't we?。
"How much is it going to cost me?"。
"Is this person taking advantage of me?"。
"Am I going to lose a lot?"。
"What am I going to gain if I give this person resources?"。
"What's he going to give back to me?"。
"If I don't get anything back, ho sit dai wo", right?。
Do you see, Church, how these questions and these suspicions。
build further walls between us and people in our communities?。
Do you see how these things are so damaging for the relationships we have with each other?。
Let me remind us, Church, Jesus has not called his followers to live this way.。
We haven't been called to live safe, comfortable lives。
where we just wait and die and get to heaven.。
But we have been called to reach out courageously,。
to practice empathy, to love sacrificially.。
This is exactly what we see the Samaritan do.。
Now, the Samaritan man that comes along,。
you don't need to tell me, you don't need to be reminded of this,。
but the Samaritans and Jews did not get along.。
And to this day, it's a very sad conflict that's lasted thousands and thousands of years.。
And in the context of this story, Jesus introducing a Samaritan man as the hero。
would have been shocking to the law and to the expert in the law。
and anyone else who was listening at the time.。
The hated Samaritan would have been the last person this law expert。
would have been expected to be the good guy of this story.。
But that's not even the main difference that Jesus wants to highlight.。
Not that fact that he was a Samaritan and they were Jews.。
This is the main thing Jesus is trying to highlight,。
where the priest and the Levite came, saw, and crossed over to the other side.。
The Samaritan man came, saw, was moved with compassion,。
went to the wounded man and cared for him.。
This is the true distinction between the Samaritan and the other two.。
Not that they were Jewish and he was Samaritan, like I said.。
Not that they had high status and were unsure what kind of status the Samaritan had.。
What individualizes him is his compassion leading to action。
compared to their lack of care and total inaction.。
In terms of Hong Kong practicality, this Samaritan man did all the wrong things.。
He goes out of his way on the dangerous road, makes himself vulnerable to attack.。
He uses his own resources, his oil and his wine,。
expensive, precious resources to heal this man.。
Takes him to an inn, uses his own money,。
creates an open account to pay whatever extra charges that might be racked up.。
He had no idea who he was helping.。
He had no idea how far he was going to have to go.。
And he helps without any expectation of being paid back.。
This was "hòu mfāngbīn".。
This was "sītdai" and this was "wǎnbàn", all in one scenario.。
But he does it all in the name of being a good neighbor.。
And my brothers and sisters, this is the kind of church that Jesus has called us to be.。
This is the way we remedy the broken relationships we see around us.。
This is what a true neighbor looks like.。
Listen to what Jesus says.。
"Which of these three you think was a neighbor to the man。
who fell into the hands of the robbers?。
The expert of the law replied, 'The one who had mercy on him.'。
Jesus said, 'Go and do likewise.'"。
So this is the truth, church.。
Our city desperately needs the people of God.。
Desperately needs the church to be willing to show compassion and mercy to those around us.。
We are in need of genuine, loving relationships again.。
And we cannot be content with excuses and reasons not to reach out,。
bandage the wounds, and go the extra mile for those around us.。
We need to be the good neighbors of the city.。
And it's going to take more than church attendance。
and community groups and singing songs on a Sunday.。
It's going to take for us, collectively, to sacrifice ourselves,。
sacrifice our resources, sacrifice our convenience,。
sacrifice our comfort zones in order to be the good neighbor Jesus has called us to be.。
And some of these different wounds, some of these different ways relationships are broken down,。
are going to be exactly what we're going to be addressing in the next few weeks.。
So today, take it as a sort of a wake-up call.。
Take it as sort of a catalyst to remind ourselves, to open our eyes.。
Actually, you know what?。
Yes, there is a lot of brokenness around us.。
There might even still be a lot of brokenness in me.。
But I'm not content to sit on the side anymore.。
I'm not content to see what's happening and cross by the other side and go about my life.。
I want to engage with what God's doing.。
I want to follow this challenge that Jesus sets for us to go and do likewise.。
So church, I pray that as brothers and sisters, we go and love our people.。
We go and be the good neighbors that Jesus has called us to be.。
Let's rise up to this challenge together.。
Would you stand?。
Everyone, I'm going to pray for us.。
Yeah, Jesus, we just give you a moment now to speak to our hearts.。
Father, relationships are an essential part of life.。
That's how you created us, to be in community with each other.。
Which is why when relationships are suffering, Lord, our whole being suffers.。
And our hearts might be breaking right now.。
Maybe as you think about relationships or someone's out there, you're thinking to yourself,。
"Man, there's so much brokenness already in my own heart, in my own relationships.。
How can I help others when I'm broken myself?"。
For some of you, you might look out there and say, "Wow, yeah, I hear what you're saying.。
Theoretically, it sounds good, but what difference can I make?。
I'm just one person."。
The problem is huge.。
It's so embedded in culture.。
For some of us, you might be doing, "I've been trying this already.。
I've been trying, but every time I do it, nothing works.。
Things might even seem to be getting worse."。
But Jesus, you demonstrated the ultimate sacrifice in order to teach us。
what true relationship is, true reconciliation is, true healing looks like.。
And that starts when we only find it in you first.。
And Jesus, I thank you for the example that you set for us, that you continue to set for us.。
So first, Lord, I pray for healing for people in this room,。
for those who are hurting in their relationships.。
May they find peace.。
May they find healthy reconciliation, healthy process to address the pain and the hurt that。
they have suffered, and you meet them where they are with your love.。
But as we look ahead, Father, help us to walk hand in hand to rise up to this challenge.。
As we look at the world around us, as we look at our families, our society, our workplaces,。
our schools, even if it's just, you know, like on public transport, there's always。
opportunities to show your kindness, to start making small steps towards。
relating to people as you've called us to do so.。
So Holy Spirit, come, empower us, embolden us, help us like the Samaritan to go,。
to reach out, not giving any excuses, but simply to love as you've called us to love.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
We pray in your name.。
Amen.。
