Everyone says amen. Amen. Amen. Can we thank our worship team? So, so beautiful.。
Thanks guys so much. Have a seat. Have a seat. It's so good to have you here. My。
name is Andrew. I'm one of the pastors here at the Vine. If you're relatively。
new to us, new to the church, we're really glad that you're with us and you。
know everything we've just been sharing about and singing about is for you. This。
is a place of acceptance, a place of love, a place where you can come and just be。
who you are. Be who you are in this season of life that you're in and my。
prayer today is that you would know and encounter God who accepts and loves you。
and fills you. You know, I'm really grateful that I have an amazing woman in。
my life, my wife, who loves me dearly. My wife and I started dating, by the way,。
back in 1996. I know, for like most of the people in this part of the room right。
now, that was before you were born, okay? 1996. I know, that ages me tremendously.。
But my wife and I, we met at Mother's Choice, an organization here in Hong Kong,。
and we started to date and as we started to date, my wife began to complain about。
a pain that she had in her side and she said the pain would come and go, but there。
was this kind of like niggly sort of pain in her almost all the time. I tried。
my best not to assume that that pain was because I was now in her life and we。
were dating together, but she complained about this pain and so one night we。
were praying together and as we were praying, I saw a picture, a vision.。
It was almost like this prophetic kind of vision and I saw a dagger stuck in my。
girlfriend's, at the time, my girlfriend's side and the blade was deeply inside of。
her, but the handle of the dagger was on the outside and I could see that every。
once in a while, because it was always there, the enemy would like to come along。
and just grab a hold of it and twist it a little bit and cause that pain into。
her. So as I'm seeing this in prayer, I share it with her, "Hey honey, I see that。
there's this dagger inside of you, the handle's on the outside, I can see it's。
there, that the enemy's manipulating it, it's causing you great pain." And she kind。
of looks up at me and she goes, "Well pull it out then." I'm like, "What do you mean?"。
She's like, "Well pull it out! If you see it, you should just pull it out, I don't。
want it in me." And I'm like, "This is weird, okay." But I'm trying to like date her,。
right? So I'm like, "Okay, sure honey, I can be the man, I will pull out the dagger。
from your side, this is very weird." So I leant forward and I put my hand on the。
kind of, the dagger as I could kind of see where it was, I put my hand on there。
and I pulled it out and she never felt a pain in her side ever again. A couple of。
years later, a couple of years later, I'm on a missions trip in the Philippines.。
I'm a youth leader here at the Vine and we're leading a group of youth to the。
Philippines and we're working in the slums in Manila. And there's a man and。
his wife that we're ministering to, the man had cataracts on his eyes. We'd been。
told by the people that we were serving with that he'd been blind for over 20。
years, full cataracts, couldn't see out of his eyes at all. And as we're talking。
with him and just sharing the gospel with him, one of the 14-year-old youth on。
this trip kind of tugs my shirt and I look down and she's like, "I believe Jesus。
wants to heal him right now." Now I don't know about you, but when you're the youth。
pastor and you're leading all these youth to a moment like this and somebody。
goes, "I think Jesus is gonna heal him and do this miracle." You're kind of like, "Hmm,。
really? I hope he does, but I got to prepare myself for when that doesn't。
happen and then I have all these disappointed youth and Jesus, right?" So I。
unfortunately was not feeling much faith in that moment, so my response there was。
like, "Oh, cool. Okay, well then you pray for him." I'm a terrible Christian, by the。
way. So I'm like, "Why don't you pray for him?" So she comes forward and she。
stretches out her hands and she puts her hands on his eyes and she prays like the。
simplest prayer you could ever imagine. Now I'm watching this with my eyes open。
and I see something that I had never seen before. The best way to describe it。
to you is like windshield wipers, just you know like if you have a really dirty。
windscreen in your car and the windshield wipers kind of wipe it away.。
Immediately as she starts to pray, his cataracts are wiped away from his eyes.。
He starts screaming his head off because for 20 years he's not had light coming。
into his eyes. He starts screaming, his wife starts crying, all the youth start。
screaming, I start screaming because everybody's screaming. We're all just。
there in this amazing moment because God in the power of prayer has set this man。
free. And suddenly he could see. A few years later I'm here at the Vine on a。
Sunday. It's at our four o'clock service and we're all worshiping away and the。
power of the Spirit is in the room and suddenly this guy starts shouting and。
screaming and thrashing around. He falls on the floor, he's thrashing around. It's。
super awkward. Everybody's like what is going on? Myself and a few of the elders,。
we went over to see him and we sort of knelt down and we realized that he's。
having this demonic kind of manifestation. This demon is screaming。
and he's swearing and it's all pretty gross and ugly and horrible. And one of。
the elders just reaches out his hand and just gently in prayer says, "In the name。
of Jesus be still." And this man immediately went still. In fact it was。
like what the Bible describes. He was suddenly dressed in his right mind. A few。
years later I'm traveling on a bus here in Hong Kong. Just traveling on a bus,。
minding my own business. Got some music going on in my ears, trying to be。
anonymous. Some guy starts freaking out on the bus, starts screaming。
and shouting and immediately I know it's the same kind of thing. He's probably。
going through some demonic manifestation right now and I'm thinking I don't want。
to be a Christian in this moment. So I'm like staring out of the window of。
the bus, kind of trying to pretend like I'm not a pastor, I'm not a Christian.。
This is my day off, okay? I'm on a day off from being a Christian right now, okay?。
And as I'm staring out the window this guy's freaking out. Everybody's kind of。
freaking out on the bus and the Holy Spirit says to me, "Pray for him right now."。
And so out loud in front of everybody I just say, "In the name of Jesus be still."。
And immediately he falls asleep. Immediately he falls asleep right there。
and then everybody starts staring at me like, "What is this guy?" Immediately he。
falls asleep. A few years later I'm sitting with this mother as she holds。
her dead son in her arms and you can imagine the pain and the trauma of that。
moment. And I'm sitting there like I have nothing to say to this. I have no words。
of comfort. I don't even know how to approach this pastoral moment. I'm。
sitting with her on the bed as she's holding her dead son in her arms and I'm。
like I have nothing to say. And she, in the middle of her morning and trauma, she。
makes a prayer. And in her prayer she asks God to come and I have never seen。
anything like this. She's like crying and weeping as you could imagine that she。
should in her morning. But as she prays a peace that comes upon her, as Scripture。
says, a peace that surpasses understanding comes over her. And。
although she's still in a place of deep pain and deep mourning, I can see in her。
eyes that she's filled with the peace of Christ. And why am I sharing all these。
incredible stories with you? I think it's because right now in the time that we're。
in, in the season that we're in, in the world right now, I don't know if you saw。
this week but there was newspaper reports that were talking about the。
possibility of World War III. I think in the time where there's a rising sense of。
panic and fear across the world for what is happening in our world, now more than。
ever, I think the global church needs to rise up and regain a passion for power。
that is only felt and seen through prayer. See, I think there's a work of。
God's Spirit that he wants to do through the power of prayer like he has never。
done before. You see, in a time where the world is doubling down on the grasping。
of power through violent wars, through the kind of overestimation of the。
false freedom of individualism, through the inequitable distribution of。
resources around the world, all these ways that we see a narrative in the。
world to grasp a hold of power, now more than ever, the church needs to remember。
the subversive and revolutionary power that there is in the humble posture of。
bending a knee. You see, I think the narrative in the world right now about。
power is those who are powerful are the ones who have the greatest army, the most。
amount of resources, and the ones who have the loudest voice. And we need to。
remember that that is not how Scripture defines power. We need to understand that。
that is not the way in which the kingdom of God operates in power. And that。
actually, I'm a hundred percent convinced that the only true power in this world。
is found in God by the Spirit through Jesus Christ. And if that is true, if that。
is true, then a church's ability to impact and change the city that it's。
planted in is not found in how large we are, how influential we are, it's not。
found in how relevant we might be, it's not found even in how great the worship。
might be or how clear the teaching might be. The only thing that can move the。
needle in this city is the unbridled power of the Spirit of God that is。
released in prayer. Show me a church that is passionate for prayer and I will show。
you a church that is humble enough to understand that only God can change the。
world, not us. See, here's the thing that I think we really need to understand. When。
a church lacks a culture of dependency on prayer, it is usually because that。
church has become satisfied being dependent on itself. I'm gonna say that。
again, that's super important. I think when a church lacks a culture of。
dependency on prayer, it is because, quite likely, that that church has become。
satisfied being dependent on itself, being dependent on its own resources. And。
if I was to say this, I want to put it this way, I think the number one danger。
that faces the vine in the season that we're in, in the world that we're in。
right now, is that we would, because of this incredible building we have, because。
of the money that's in our bank account, because of the crazy talents that we see。
on our staff team and our volunteers, because the services we have and the。
ministries that we have, that all of those things which are a gift of the。
working of the Spirit of God, that all of those things would so amplify in us a。
sense of self-reliance that it would dampen our desperation for prayer. Is。
anybody here? Are you okay? That we would so see all this great stuff that God has。
given us, but that would seduce us into a place of self-reliance that we would。
actually dampen the enthusiasm and the desperation that we have for prayer,。
because the kind of power that the world needs to see today is not more warring。
armies, it's not more resources in the bank account, surely it is this unbridled。
passion and power of the Spirit of God, and that my friends is released always。
in prayer. What might it look like that the church would truly believe that。
power is not found in the hands of the outwardly powerful, but in the scarred。
hands of the inwardly crucified? Now when Paul writes to the church in Ephesus, all。
of that is on his heart for those people in that church. He sees what they've been。
saved out of. He understands that Ephesus was a place of great power. In fact,。
Ephesus in those days was one of the most powerful cities that there was in。
the Greek or Roman Empire. It was a port city, very much like Hong Kong, and because。
it was a port city, it was a center of trade and commerce. People, particularly。
entrepreneurial people, were moving in the Greek or Roman Empire to Ephesus to。
make a life for themselves, to make a name for themselves, to gain that wealth。
and that status, and to have generational wealth for the generations of their。
family to come. This was what Ephesus was known for. And Paul has shared the。
gospel in that city, and he's helped people to understand that power in the。
kingdom is actually seen in a different way, that it's not about what resources。
you have, what's in your bank account, all these other ways that power is seen in。
the world, that it's seen through the life, death, and the resurrection of Jesus.。
But Paul knows that his church is susceptible to falling back under the。
seduction of the power of its city. He knows that the church is caught at times。
with its feet in two camps, in the camp of being seduced by that power seen in。
the world, and the camp of this newfound relationship that they have in Jesus, and。
they're struggling between the two. And so he writes this letter to help the。
church understand where true power really sits. And Paul understands that。
that's in prayer. And so interestingly, in the book of Ephesians, more than any of。
his letters in the New Testament, he has a number of prayers in the book. One in。
the first chapter, one in the third chapter, we're looking at the one in the。
first chapter here today. Now, why is prayer and power so important for Paul。
in Ephesus? It's because not only was there this great commerce and this great。
economic power that was seen in the city of Ephesus, there was also a powerful。
spiritual entity that was at work. See, Ephesus was famous for the worship of。
Artemis, the goddess Artemis, in Greek, the goddess Diana. And Diana and Artemis, the。
same person, same God, this goddess was worshipped in Ephesus. It had one of the。
largest, most glorious temples to Artemis that you can see. In fact, you can go to。
Ephesus today and still see the ruins of this temple. It truly is an incredible。
thing to see. But in those days, that temple was massive. And that temple was。
filled with people worshipping this Artemis for a number of very significant。
reasons. Artemis was believed to be the goddess of the underworld. So she was the。
goddess, actually, of evil forces and dark forces and curses. She was also seen as。
the goddess of fertility, which is why when you see statues of her, if you jump。
back to that statue just a moment ago, you'll see that she's covered in all of。
these things. These are actually breasts that she's covered in. She was the goddess。
of fertility, so she's covered in these breasts. That was how she was actually。
depicted to the people. And if you wanted fertility in that day, here's how you。
would do it. You would go to the temple and you would hire a temple prostitute.。
And you would have sex with the temple prostitute, and that was your way of。
worshipping Artemis in order for her to have favor to bless you with fertility.。
The other thing that Artemis was known for was the giver, the cosmic savior and。
giver of wisdom. If you wanted wisdom to solve a problem in your life, if you。
wanted to get some revelation to help sort out something in your life, you。
would go to the temple and you would pray to Artemis. The other thing that。
you would do, or the other thing that took place in Artemis worship, was。
also this idea of the opening of the mind. And actually, ancient sources have。
shown that there was the use of drugs in the temple to help people to have。
ecstatic experiences, so their minds were open to see things in different ways.。
This was all happening in the temple in Ephesus. And then, if you wanted Artemis。
or one of the gods that were under her control to do something for you, here's。
what you would also do. You would go to the priest of the priestess in the。
temple and you would say, "Hey, I want this person..." So, give me an example out of my。
own life. I have this amazing girl that I meet. She's blonde, from New Zealand. She。
became my wife, okay? So, hang with me. But she's blonde, she's from New Zealand. I。
fall in love with her, but she hasn't fallen in love with me yet. This is a true。
story, by the way. She hadn't fallen in love with me. So, if I was in the first。
century Ephesus, here's what I would do. I would go to the temple of Artemis and。
I would say to the priest and the priestess, "Can you give me a prayer to。
pray to a specific God that would enable this woman to fall in love with me?" And。
the priest and priestess would say, "Well, tell us a little bit more about this。
person." And I would describe, "Well, she's from New Zealand. She's blonde. She's。
beautiful. Her last name's Ho. I think she's awesome." And I would go through all。
the things about her that I liked about her. And then, the priestess would go, "I've。
got just the prayer for you." And they would go to a chest and they would pull。
out a scroll, a magic scroll. And they would basically say, "This magic scroll。
contains the name of the exact God that you need to pray to in order for that。
woman to fall in love with you." And they kind of give you the scroll and you're。
like, "Give me the scroll." And then they take the scroll away and they say, "You。
have to buy the scroll. The scroll is gonna cost X, Y, Z amount of money." And。
you're like, "Of course I will pay that because I need to know the name of the。
specific God that can help me to have this woman fall in love with me. You following。
this?" So, you buy it and you take the scroll. You open it up at home. It has the。
name of that God. You pray to that God, believing that this woman is then gonna。
fall in love. This was the way that worship was done in the temple at this。
time. And so, here's Paul writing to the church, to a bunch of people who've been。
saved out of that context, whose feet are still kind of in both camps. They're。
attracted still to the power that is seen in the world with finance and。
commerce and making a life for themselves. Equally, they're attracted to。
the temple and to Artemis and to knowing the names of all these different gods.。
And at the same time, they're trying to also now live on behalf of Christ and。
try to navigate all of that. And Paul writes them and says, "You need to。
understand what true power comes from. You need to understand that it doesn't。
come from this temple. It doesn't come from this goddess Artemis. You need to。
understand that the only power you need, the only answer that you'll ever need to。
every prayer that you will ever pray is Jesus Christ." And he helps the church to。
re-center themselves in the power that comes through prayer. And if there's one。
thing I want to do with you tonight, no matter how you felt coming in here today,。
no matter what is going on in your life, I want to pray that what we do together。
today will help to revolutionize your prayer life. Because I think when we。
truly understand what it is that Christ has done for us, we truly will then。
begin to lean into the praying that I think Paul longs for his church to pray.。
Let me read this to you, this incredible prayer that he has in Ephesians chapter。
1. Everybody okay still? All right, here we go. Starting in verse 15. Listen to this。
incredible prayer. This is Paul. He says, "For this reason, ever since I heard about。
your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, I have not。
stopped giving thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers." And here's。
what I pray. "I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious。
Father, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know Him。
better." Notice that not Artemis, that the Father, the glorious Father, would give。
you a spirit of wisdom and revelation so you would know Him better. "I pray also。
that the eyes of your heart would be opened." Not your mind through some drugs,。
but the eyes of your heart would be opened so that you would be enlightened。
to know the hope that there is to which He has called you, the riches of His。
glorious inheritance in the saints, and you would know this, His incomparably。
great power for us who believe. Oh, that power is like the working of His mighty。
strength which He exerted in Christ when He raised Him from the dead and seated。
Him at the right hand in the heavenly realms. Oh, far above all other powers, all。
other authorities, all other dominion, over every name that could ever be named,。
not only in the present age, but in the one to come. And God placed everything,。
all things, under His feet and appointed Him to be the head over everything for。
the church, which is His body, the fullness of Him who fills everything in。
every way. Paul is saying, "Church, don't you understand the power that is before。
you? Don't you understand who Christ is and what He's done for you? My prayer is。
that you would have wisdom and revelation so that you would know more。
of what it is that He's done with you. I pray that the eyes of your heart would。
be opened up, not just your mind so you can think better, your heart so that you。
would have more compassion, more grace, more forgiveness, so you would know the。
hope by which it is that you've been called." He says, "Not only that, but I want。
you to see the incomparably great power that there is for those who believe. That。
power is greater than anything Artemis could ever offer you. That power is。
greater than anything economics or commerce could ever offer you. That power,。
everything else sits under that. Every name has to submit to that name. Guess。
what? You don't need to buy magic scrolls anymore. You can get rid of all of that.。
If you've got the name of Jesus, everything else submits under that power."。
And He's basically saying, "That is all you need to know. Jesus." And when you come。
to a relationship with Him, all power is available to you. I love how He starts。
the prayer. He says, "For this reason." In other words, Paul is saying, "Okay, for。
everything I've already said so far in the letter, the first 14 verses, for the。
reason of all of that, here's now how I pray for you." I love this. I'm very。
grateful for Sydney last week for taking us so beautifully through those 14。
verses and showing us what it means for us to live in Christ and to have Christ。
living in us. And we saw last week some of the things that Paul is。
presenting to the church in Ephesus about who they are in Christ because he。
wants them to understand their identity in Him. Let me just show you a bit of a。
summary of these things. This is what he has said in the first 14 verses of the。
letter. "You are blessed with every spiritual blessing. You've been chosen by。
Him, adopted to His family, freely given grace. You're redeemed by His blood. You've。
got wisdom and understanding. You've been made known God's will. You have hope in。
Christ. You are the praise of His glory. You've received the word of truth. You've。
been given salvation. You are marked by the Holy Spirit. You have an inheritance.。
And because of all of this, for this reason, here's how you pray." Which is so。
powerful. See, for Paul, his prayers are not coming out of thin air. For Paul, he's。
not praying some rote prayers that he's memorized to learn. He's like, "Because of。
all that Christ has done for me, because of all that Christ has done for you, you。
haven't earned it, you don't deserve it, He's just done it out of His grace.。
Because of all of that, this is how we pray. We pray from a posture and from a。
place of the power for which God has done stuff for us. The power for which。
Christ has changed our lives. That's the fuel for our prayers," he's saying. Which is。
deeply challenging, because I realize that's not how I pray. And I wonder。
whether that's really how you pray. Because if I'm honest with you tonight,。
here's how I pray. I don't pray from a Christ-centered perspective. I pray from。
an Andrew-centered perspective. "Oh, my ankle hurts a little bit. I'm gonna pray.。
I've had an argument with my wife. I better pray. I've had a really stressful。
week at work. I'm gonna pray." In other words, my approach to prayer is so often。
based on what is happening for me, and is based on my perception of reality. Now,。
don't hear me wrong. If you're in a season right now in your life where。
things are really challenging, really difficult, things are really hard, and。
you're going to Christ out of that for prayer, that's absolutely awesome. That's。
totally fine. Totally great. Please don't hear me wrong. What Paul is saying, though,。
is that the true power that fuels our prayers shouldn't be what is going on。
for us. It should be what Christ has done for us. And when we center our prayer。
life in the perspective of what Christ has done for us, for this reason, our。
prayers take on a different focus. Our prayers take on a different power to。
them. I mean, could you imagine what that would be like? You see, when the self is。
the starting point of prayer, we very quickly become people who are。
overwhelmed by our need and our circumstance. But when Christ is the。
starting point of prayer, we are very quickly comforted by His authority and。
His power. And from that place, we are then able to pray prayers that。
truly mean something. My challenge for you in the week ahead is to do this, to。
find some time in your diary, to take out the book of Ephesians from Scripture,。
read the first 14 verses, and then afterwards begin to pray. I think you'll。
be amazed at how different your prayers are off the back of all of the things。
that Christ has done for you. It will shape and transform your prayers in a。
very different way. Paul's like, "For this reason, then I pray." And my hope for you。
this week ahead is that you will find your prayers coming out of the overflow。
of what Christ has done for you, so that you're finding yourself more bold, more。
courageous, more direct, and more hopeful in the things that you're bringing to Him.。
And you may still have challenging circumstances and situations going on in。
your life, and it's absolutely no problem to pray for those things. You should pray。
for those things. But they're flowing not out of a power that you're trying to。
find in yourself, they're flowing out of the power of the cross, the death, and the。
resurrection of Jesus. Are you with me? Then he starts to pray, and he does this。
incredible prayer. He first starts off by thanking them. He's like, "I thank you, and I。
thank God for who you are. You're awesome." Then he says, "I hope that you will have。
wisdom and revelation, that God will give you what you've been trying to seek from。
Artemis." The ultimate wisdom and revelation, he's saying, comes from Him,。
that you might be able to know Him better. Not that you would。
get answers to all the problems in your life, but that you would know Him better.。
He then says, "I pray that the eyes of your heart would be opened, so that。
you know more compassion, and forgiveness, and love, and ultimately know the hope by。
which you have been called, the great inheritance of all the saints." And then。
he gets to the heart of his prayer. In fact, from this part forward, from verse。
19 onwards, the rest of the prayer is focused on one theme and one theme only,。
and that's power. He says, "Here's what I pray for you, too. I pray that you would。
come to know the incomparably great power that there is for those who。
believe." And he wants his church to be so rooted in a right understanding of。
power, that they're able to let go of all of that seduction that they see in the。
world, and put their full trust and faith in Christ and Christ alone. Let me read。
you, actually, verse 19 in its full. It says this, it says, "And His incomparably。
great power for us who believe." That power is like the working of His mighty。
strength. Now, in the English, when we read that, it seems like pretty。
straightforward, but actually in the Greek, this is very。
interesting. In fact, what Paul does in the Greek here, which is what he's。
writing in, is something that he hasn't done and doesn't do in any of the other。
places of his letters. He actually uses six different words for the word "power."。
Look at this. You don't need to know what the words are, but these six words are。
all words which we translate into our English as "power." Which is really funny,。
because if you were to read this from the Greek into a transliterated English,。
here's how it would read. It would read this, "God wants you to know the power of。
the power of the power, for those who believe according to the power of the。
power's power." In other words, no power! Are you with me? Can you feel like。
Paul's passion? He's like, "I really want you to understand that the power of the。
power of the power, even the power's power has got power, right?" Like, he's really。
trying to help his church to understand the fullness of what Christ has done for。
them. So he uses six Greek words that we translate to "power," but mean slightly。
different things. He starts with the word "hupoballon." "Hupoballon" means this。
idea of a power that is beyond anything else, a power that cannot be undone or。
outdone by anything else. In other words, this power is incomparable, which is the。
English word we use, than any other power. "Hupoballon." He then uses this other。
word "maitheus." "Maitheus" is this idea that the power is of the greatest size。
that you could ever imagine, that the scope of that power is bigger than any。
other scope. He then uses the word "dunamis." "Dunamis" means a power that is。
in the possessive form, the idea of a power that is kind of the capability for。
action, the capability of this thing for its power. The picture is like a。
crossbow that an archer might pull back, and when they've got the crossbow pulled。
back, just before they're about to let go, their fingers and the arrow shoots。
forward, the tension in the bow, that's "dunamis." It's the potential power that is。
there. He then uses this other word "henephia." "Henephia" means actual power,。
not just a potential of the power, but the actual power that's at work in the。
world. He then uses another word, it's this kind of interesting word "kratos."。
"Kratos" essentially means that there is a mastery over every dominion and。
overplace. So this power is not just potential, it's not just actual, it's。
also a power that has dominion over every other kind of power that you could。
ever imagine. Every underpower is gonna sit under this. This is what "kratos" means.。
And then he finishes using this word that I think sounds like a Korean boy。
band name, "hysun." "Hysun" sounds Korean, doesn't it? "Hysun" is a Greek word。
which traditionally means like a possessive power or a power that's unique to the。
individual. So I want you to see this, these six words, and they capture a。
slightly different emphasis of what power is about. And when Paul writes。
Ephesians 119, he's wanting his church to understand, they would have known the。
Greek, they would understand what it is. So let me now translate this from what I。
think Paul is trying to say back into English for us. Let me read this to you.。
"I pray also that you would know the hope there is in the knowledge that there is。
no power in all the world that can go beyond the power found in God. No power。
that has the scope to outdo the power of God, and that this power sits in its full。
potential in the heart of God in every moment and is ready to be released in。
this world with a moment's notice. This is an actual power already at work all。
around us, not a power in theory but one in reality. And this power has dominion。
and mastery over all of the pretensions to power, for it is the personal power of。
the one true God, and he has uniquely revealed this power to us in the life,。
death, and resurrection of Jesus." That's what he's saying. That should blow your。
mind, that he would say in this prayer, "This is what I want you to believe about。
what Christ has done. This is the power that we have access to as Christians, a。
God who is able to do all of this." And so maybe you came in earlier and you were。
feeling defeated and overwhelmed. You have a God who is all of this for you,。
right here, right now. The fullness of that power right here and right now. This。
is why he actually says in verse 21, I love how he puts it here, he's getting。
like really sort of fired up at this point, he says, "Far above all the rulers。
and authorities, powers and dominions, over every name that can be named, not。
only in the present age but in the one to come." He's saying, "You don't need magic。
scrolls anymore, Ephesus. Stop spending your money on these stupid scrolls that。
are supposed to be giving you the name of some God that you think you need to。
pray to make that girl fall in love with you. If you want the girl to fall in love。
with you, you only need one name." Well, maybe that's not true. I don't know. But。
he said, "There's only one name for you. It's the name of Jesus, and if you get。
the name of Jesus, every other name is under that name. You don't need to do。
anything else. That becomes the one thing that you have. You can let go of all of。
the other pretensions to power, and you can declaim that Jesus and Jesus alone。
is Lord." This is a message for us in Hong Kong. I can't tell you the number of。
times where I've led somebody to the Lord here in our city, and I know that。
what's happened is they've taken Jesus, and it's the new deity that's on their。
shelf, next to a bunch of other deities that they've still got on their shelf.。
Jesus has become the latest guru to help with their problems in life, but they're。
still holding on to a lot of other superstitions, a lot of other cultural。
deities, maybe a lot of deities that their family has worshipped in the past,。
and they're still there too. And it's like Jesus has become added to a whole。
pantheon of deities for that person or for their family. And Paul leans into。
that context, and he says, "You just need one. In fact, there is only one, and it's。
Jesus Christ. And when you have Him, everything else has to be removed from。
the shelf. And if you're trying to hedge your bets across a whole bunch of。
different gods, that's not going to work for you. There's only one true power in。
this world, the life, death, resurrection of Jesus. And in relationship to Him,。
every other pretension to power submits itself unto Jesus Christ." This is why he。
says, and I think this is really, really important, in verse 19 he says this,。
"And this incomparably great power for us who believe." In other words, if you。
want to know, "Well, how do I get this power? How do I align myself to this power?" I。
hear you, Andrew, talking about all this great power. I kind of want to be a part。
of that too. I want to know a God who's going to be over me and going to move in。
that path. How do I get that power in my life? Paul says it simply. You want to get。
that power? Believe in Jesus. It's available for all who believe. Which,。
funnily enough for us Christians, sometimes grates against us, because。
we're kind of like, "How do I get that power? What do I need to do in order to。
get that power? Because I want that power. Are there more Bible studies that I can。
join to get that power? Or maybe it's power only reserved for the senior。
pastor. So after the service, I'm going to ask him to pray for me because his。
prayers are way more powerful than anybody else's, of course. Or maybe that。
power comes if I attend church every week for the next six months. If I do。
that, do I get that power?" And Paul says, "If you're still thinking that way, you're。
still purchasing magic scrolls." He's saying, "Actually, all you need to do is。
believe in Jesus. And if you believe in Jesus, you have access." The fullness of。
that. The only qualification that Paul puts on the access to the power of God。
is belief in Jesus. That's the only thing. Which I think is such a fundamentally。
important thing for us to remember. Because Christians, we can be so。
judgmental of others at times. "Oh, look at that person over there. Have you seen。
the way they dress? They're not really filled with the power of God. Because if。
they were, they would certainly not dress like that. Are you with me, too?" We are so。
judgmental in the church. Paul writes this to his church to say, "Let's stop。
judging one another. The only qualification for the power of God to be。
at work in your life, for you to be in Christ and Christ in you, is belief in。
Him." That's it. See, Paul wants you to know and accept that the fullness of the。
power of God is in those who believe in Him. And that the fullness of that power。
is potentially working through them as well. That's a wonderful thing. That we。
would all know a God who can fully meet us in all of that power that Paul has。
been talking about. So it comes back to our prayer lives. And it comes back to。
those moments where we wonder, "Is God really going to come through?" And I tell。
you what, in this time and in this hour, where we see all the stuff that's。
happening in the world around us, it's very easy for the church to feel。
defeated. I don't think Jesus died on the cross for a defeated church. I think He。
died on the cross so that we would know the exact thing that Paul's been talking。
about in this passage. He died on the cross so His church would not be。
defeated but victorious. He died on the cross so His church would know that when。
they pray, they have access to the fullness of the power of God. That。
power means that the name of Jesus, every other name, falls under that. It means。
that there is no dominion or mastery that is greater than that. It means that。
no matter what the world might tell us about the narratives of power, none of。
that makes sense because Jesus is the only one in true power. And when we put。
our allegiance and our obedience and our faith to Him, we know that we are。
walking in the only power that can sustain things for eternal life. That's。
our gospel. That's our story. That's the church God needs in the world today.。
See, a church that lacks a culture of the dependency on prayer has become a church。
that's ultimately satisfied in being dependent on itself. And that's not the。
church we need right now. My prayer for you is that you, as you see a Christ-。
centered approach to prayer, you would transform your prayers to be prayers of。
boldness and courage and hope and that you would pray with new unbridled power。
that comes from the Spirit of God through the activity of prayer. Can I。
pray for you? Let's pray. Why don't we stand together? I'm gonna pray for us.。
Maybe just posture your heart into a place of prayer now. Just maybe close。
your eyes. Just come before Him. You've been saved for a reason and a purpose.。
He loves you so much. Next week we're gonna talk about what it means to be the。
workmanship of God. What it means to be fashioned and shaped for purpose in this。
world. And it starts here in this moment because prayer is our access point to。
everything we've been talking about here today.。
And I believe that you're gonna see the power of God through prayer in your life。
like never before. It doesn't mean He's gonna answer every prayer you pray. The。
answer of prayer is always in the hands of God. It's not in the hands of man.。
It doesn't mean He's gonna answer every prayer. It doesn't mean He's gonna come。
through for every dream. It doesn't mean that your life's suddenly gonna be。
perfect. But I believe that you will have a revolutionized prayer life as you come。
to remember and reflect on the power of Christ and as you pray from a Christ。
centered perspective. From all of the things that He has done for you out of。
the gratitude of that we pray. So Lord I want to pray this week that each person。
in this room would come to know your power in a new way. Father I thank you。
that you went to the cross and you died and took on the fullness of our sin so。
that we would know the fullness of life. I thank you that every single person in。
this room who confesses you as their Lord and Savior has access to the。
fullness of the Spirit. That the same Spirit that raised you from the dead now。
lives in them. I pray Lord that the power of God would move in our hearts and our。
lives and our mouths as we pray. Lord I pray that you would birth a fresh。
desperation for prayer at the vine like never before. Lord we know in the season。
where people are talking about wars and more wars and world wars and all this。
crazy stuff that we don't need to retreat. We don't need to be fearful. We。
don't need to run in the opposite direction. We can take our stand because。
we are filled with the power of Christ. We are filled with the hope that comes。
from the gospel. We are secure in our feet that are rooted in peace and we can。
be His hands and feet in this time. So Lord I pray, I pray that that all-。
encompassing power would fall on each person right now. I wonder whether you。
just be willing to open your hands as I pray. Father that power is in your spirit。
and it is released through prayer. And so I want to pray right now in the name of。
Jesus for the releasing of the power of the Spirit of God over each person here.。
Fear be gone in the name of Jesus. Worry be gone in the name of Jesus. Pain be gone。
in the name of Jesus. Shame, regrets gone in the name of Jesus. Father I pray that。
you would release over your people love and goodness and mercy. Lord I pray that。
every person would walk out of here today knowing the hope to which you have。
called them. The great inheritance that is there in the saints and the。
incomparably great power for those who believe. For that power is like the。
working of your mighty strength that has come and raised Jesus from the dead and。
now sits him at the right hand of the Father. That every power and dominion and。
authority and every name that can be named now sits under the authority in。
the name of Jesus Christ. And that he has done that for the church, for you. So that。
you would not live a defeated life. You would not live a life where you're。
overwhelmed and struck down. But you would live a life that is full of。
purpose, full of hope, full of light and full of love. And I pray that you would。
live that life to the fullness of the Spirit of God that is inside of you. That。
you would live a life that is worthy of the calling that you have received,。
filled with the power that is only found in Jesus. And Father we thank you for。
this in Jesus name. Everyone says amen. Hey we're gonna we're gonna worship。
together so let's just spend some time together as a community responding in。
worship now.。
you。
[MUSIC]。
