I don't know if you've ever realized this, but there is a sound that you are more familiar。
with than any other in your life.。
This sound, when it's made, causes you in your being to respond to it.。
Usually when the sound is made, everything in you becomes alert.。
Everything in you becomes more awake, more aware.。
When this sound was first made, it marked you.。
It said something about you.。
It identified you as something both common but also incredibly unique.。
When this sound is made loudly, it can summon anger or hatred or passion or joy.。
And when this sound is made softly, it can summon seduction or intimacy or secrets or。
quietness.。
If I was to make this sound for you right now, it would fill you with an honor and a。
joy that is not possible through any other thing.。
Do you want to know what this sound is?。
It is your name.。
And I remember very clearly the precious sense of joy I had in that moment when my wife and。
I first named our daughter.。
If you've been here at The Vine for a while, you'll know that my wife and I weren't able。
to have our own kids.。
And we went through an infertility journey, which led us into an adoption journey.。
And for about two and a half years, we were in the adoption process.。
And then finally, the government here in Hong Kong matched us to a child, to a 16-month-old。
girl, half Nepalese, half Indonesian.。
We call her Nepalesean.。
I took this photo of her 10 minutes after meeting her for the first time.。
"Ah, this is my daughter!"。
Every time I see this photo still, it fills me with such joy.。
I literally took that about 10 minutes after meeting her for the first time.。
And one of the things that's interesting in the adoption process that's different from。
a kind of, I guess, more of a natural birth process, is that Mia was 16 months old at。
this time, but she already had another name.。
She had been given a name by her biological mother.。
And she had been called that name up until this moment that Chris and I met her for the。
first time.。
And in fact, we called her that name on that first day as well.。
And Chris and I wrestled with this, because the adoption process is one by which you often。
kind of feel like you get to miss out on some of the things that perhaps normal families。
who are bringing their children through more natural means can do.。
And one of the things that we felt was, it was important for us to name our child, but。
this child already had a name.。
And we didn't want to dishonor the biological mother or anything like that.。
And so we wrestled with it.。
We had to pray about it.。
Do we keep the name that her biological mother had given her, or do we change her name and。
name her something that we felt?。
And if you're a parent in this room, you'll know that there is a joy in this shared human。
experience of naming our children.。
That names like that are very rarely arbitrary.。
That we choose something that has value and meaning and says something and maybe defines。
that person with a certain characteristic or perhaps speaks into their future and defines。
something about their hope.。
And so as Chris and I were praying about this, we were like, "Well, we respect the biological。
mother's decision, but we want to name our child.。
We want to partake in that process of claiming a certain sense of new destiny on this child."。
So after praying, we decided that we would change her name.。
We named her Mia Lynn Gardner.。
Mia is important because Mia in Latin means mine.。
And we felt like this was exactly what we were doing.。
That Chris and I were saying, "You're no longer an orphan.。
That you are now mine.。
You are ours.。
We take you and you're a part of a family now.。
You're mine and we establish this family with you."。
But equally, every time Mia for the rest of her life says her own name, "Hi, my name is。
Mia," she's also saying, "These ones are mine."。
She's also declaring, "I'm no longer an orphan without a family, but this father and mother。
have claimed me and I have claimed them and we are mine now together."。
Mia has deep significance for us as a family.。
Her middle name is Lynn.。
That is my mother's...sorry, that is my wife's mother's name.。
My wife is from New Zealand.。
Chris and all of her family are from New Zealand.。
We wanted to make sure that Mia had a connection to her New Zealand family.。
So it was important for her to feel like her family was also that family.。
And so we gave her the name of Chris's mother, Lynn.。
And then of course her last name, Gardiner, which is my family connecting to the generations。
of my family line.。
So she has this New Zealand connection.。
She has this English connection.。
She has this mine kind of feeling.。
Mia Lynn Gardiner has significant weight and significant meaning for this young girl that。
came into our lives.。
There is power in a name.。
Amen?。
I wonder if you know the story of your name.。
I can pretty much guarantee everyone in this room that your name is not arbitrary, that。
your parents didn't get there in the hospital with a piece of paper and go, "I have no idea.。
I'll just call them this."。
Particularly if you're from a Chinese culture in this room and you'll know this, that your。
name was wrestled with, it was debated, it was shared back and forth, the grandparents。
got involved, and their opinion was very important to your parents.。
And then there was the idea of what the symbol of that name would be and whether it connects。
to certain generations and what it looks like.。
And you know that there was a name that was decided that didn't just please your parents。
but please everybody in your wider family, right?。
Are you with me?。
Whatever culture you're from, these names that are given to us say something about us。
and speak something about us in our lives.。
If you don't know the story of your name, what a great way to spend Christmas lunch.。
Why don't you ask your parents, "Why did you name me this?"。
Like what was in your heart when you named me like this?。
And I bet you, you will find out something about them that you did not know and maybe。
something about yourself that you did not know.。
There is an ancient Chinese proverb, and by that I mean not just the ones that come in。
the cookies but like a real ancient Chinese proverb that says this, "The beginning of。
all wisdom is to name something true and well."。
And right in the heart of the Christmas story is a moment just like that, the beginning。
of all wisdom.。
Because right in the heart of the Christmas story is something that takes place that often。
I think we kind of look over or maybe has become so familiar to us that we don't really。
spend much time on it.。
But significantly what happens right at the beginning of the Christmas story is that God。
comes and decides to name his child.。
I want to show you this from Matthew chapter 1 because there's so much significance in。
this passage.。
This is Matthew 1 starting in verse 18.。
This is how the birth of Jesus Christ came about.。
His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph, but before they could come together。
she was found to be with child through the Holy Spirit.。
Because Joseph, her husband, was a righteous person, he did not want to expose her to public。
disgrace so he had in mind to divorce her quietly.。
But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and。
said, "Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife because what。
is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.。
She will give birth to a son and you are to give him the name Jesus because he will save。
his people from their sins."。
I don't know what this would have been like for Joseph.。
Joseph's a righteous man and he suddenly finds that his teenage girlfriend, essentially,。
that he was pledged to be married to gets pregnant.。
Awkward conversation right there.。
But somehow through this dream he understands that this pregnancy has come about miraculously。
by the work of God and as he's trying to get his head around that very moment, he's then。
told that he needs to name this child in a certain way.。
As God does that for Joseph, he starts by saying this, "Joseph, son of David."。
First of all, God names Joseph directly.。
Name Joseph means this, God will increase or God will add to, which really is quite。
interesting if you think about it because Joseph and Mary are about to bring forth a。
child into the world where its increase of power and glory and love and grace will have。
no ends.。
Joseph, the one whose name means God will increase, uses Joseph to bring forth into。
this world and to raise in this world the one who will see no decrease.。
And then God says, "Son of David," which actually, funnily enough, almost is as if。
God got that wrong because Joseph's father was not called David.。
We know this because Matthew has just given us a genealogy, a list of a history of all。
of the people from the male family line that have led all the way up to the birth of Jesus,。
starting with Abraham himself.。
And as he does so, he goes along and names all these people.。
We don't have time to go into the list here this morning, but in that list are some amazing。
people, some incredibly powerful people.。
There are kings on that list.。
There are noble people, great moral leaders, very wealthy people in that list, people that。
are known throughout the Old Testament as people of great faith and favor.。
But interestingly, also in this list are people that you would not want to invite for dinner,。
murderers, adulterers.。
There's a rapist in this list.。
There's somebody who owned a brothel.。
There are people that have very difficult, uncomfortable, and broken backgrounds also。
in this list.。
And as the list goes on, finally Matthew gets to Joseph and he says this in verse 16, he。
says, "And Jacob, the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom born Jesus, who is。
called the Christ."。
So we know that Joseph's father's name was Jacob, not David.。
So when God appears and says, "Joseph, son of David," we have to ask the question, "What。
is going on here?"。
And God is linking for Joseph his bloodline back to David, King David.。
The name David, by the way, means beloved or favored or favorite.。
It's the sense that God is saying to Joseph, "You've got to remember, Joseph, that your。
bloodline goes back to the one who is beloved, the one who had a heart after the Lord, the。
one who is highly favored in Jewish lineage and history."。
And this was important, not just so that David would feel good about himself, it was a much。
bigger picture than that.。
Because the Old Testament prophetic tradition had told us that when God acts to bring the。
Messiah into the world, to bring the King that will reign forever into this world, it。
would happen through the bloodline of King David.。
This idea of a Davidic dynasty is throughout the prophetic tradition of the Old Testament.。
David was not the first king of Israel, that was Saul, but David is seen as the archetype。
of the kings of Israel, as the one who was with a heart after the Lord, the one that。
God would say, "Through this one, I will bring the one who will reign on a throne forever."。
So as God says to Joseph in this dream, "Joseph, son of David," what He's beginning to say。
to Joseph is, "You've got to understand that what's about to happen in you and through。
you is far bigger than you ever, ever could imagine."。
That the Jewish people had been waiting for hundreds of years for this prophetic promise。
of the Messiah to come, one who would redeem and save and restore and renew and bring grace。
and mercy.。
That longing has been on the hearts of Israel for so many years.。
And when He says, "Joseph, son of David," He's beginning to say that lineage, that bloodline,。
that promise of the Father is about to be birthed.。
And then He says these words, He says, "She will give birth to a son and you are to give。
Him the name Jesus because He will save His people from their sins."。
Joseph and Mary didn't have a choice over what they called their child.。
Well, I suppose they had a choice, but they were obedient and they took this name Jesus。
and applied it to their baby.。
Jesus is an interesting name.。
It's actually Greek, not Hebrew, which is interesting.。
You would think that Jesus would have been called something Hebrew, but He was given。
a Greek name, Jesus, but the Greek name is flowing from a Hebrew origin name, which is。
Joshua.。
And Joshua and Jesus means Yahweh is salvation or it means Jesus, the Lord saves.。
And so right here at the birthing point of Jesus comes the turning point of all history.。
In this moment where God names His child, He turns the axis of history on itself.。
And He says, "This one is the one who will show the world that Yahweh is salvation.。
This one is the one who will be the one who is able to save us and restore us from our。
sin and our brokenness and everything that has ever held us back from the sin that entered。
in Genesis 3 for the taking of that fruit in the garden now is going to be renewed in。
this one who will go on to be a salvation to not just Israel, but to all the people.。
This one saves."。
In the releasing of this name, a new sound comes into the world, a sound by which everyone。
turns towards, a sound by which all of us find our inner being coming alive, a sound。
that fills us with dignity and honor and respect like no other, the name of Jesus.。
And this name becomes embedded in what Christmas is all about.。
Christmas is literally this, that God brings into the world His Son, declaring before a。
tired and weary world that a new narrative of hope has entered that is greater than the。
current narrative of despair.。
I mean, what good news that is, amen?。
That we gather together in this room and in this moment and watching online and in our。
overflow, and we think about this radical idea that in Jesus' coming, a new narrative。
of hope has entered the current narrative of despair, and that is very good news.。
Because it wasn't just the first century that was holding to a narrative of despair.。
In 2025, I don't know if you've noticed this, but there seems to be a lot of despair around。
us still.。
I mean, if you keep your ears open to what's happening in the newspapers, what's happening。
online, what's happening in social media, I mean, there is just doom and gloom.。
And look, there are some things that have happened even just recently for us here in。
our city with the fires in Taipo, for those in Australia with what happened with the Bondi。
shootings, those at Brown University with the shootings that happened there.。
I mean, we can just begin to even look in the last couple of weeks and see that there's。
a huge amount of brokenness and despair in this world.。
But on top of that, I think there is a growing sense of doom and gloom around, "Well, the。
future economy of 2026 is going to be terrible for the economy.。
Oh, the economy is going this way.。
The market is going this way."。
All this doom, gloom, despair, and we as the church sit there in the midst of it, and it's。
easy for us to get almost overwhelmed by it.。
It's tempting sometimes within the church ourselves to begin to align ourselves more。
with the narrative of despair than with the narrative of hope.。
And Christmas, it's God's way of breaking into that and saying, "This one is the one。
who will save.。
You always, therefore, will have a greater narrative of life than the current narrative。
of death."。
That's the wonder of the Christmas story.。
That's why we sing, "Joy to the world."。
And we don't belittle the realities of some of the challenges we're seeing in the economy。
and the world around us right now, but that will not define us as Christians.。
What will define me is the name of Jesus.。
And the name of Jesus is the one that saves, that renews, that restores, that brings life。
what Christmas is all about.。
The early church really grasped a hold of the power that there is in the name of Jesus.。
They knew that this was not just an arbitrary name.。
They knew that this was not just a name for a child who became an adult, who became a。
rabbi and a teacher.。
They knew that this name was also one that was being released in authority in this world.。
In fact, it was Jesus himself that set up that sense of authority.。
Let me show you this from Matthew 28, starting in verse 18.。
This is some of Jesus' final words to his disciples in his resurrection before his ascension.。
He says this, "All authority in heaven and earth has been given to me.。
Therefore, I want you to go now and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them," notice,。
"in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit."。
There's this beautiful idea on Jesus' heart that he wants them now to go.。
And he says, "All authority has been given to me."。
He didn't say it's been given to you.。
He said, "It's been given to me.。
And through relationship with me and in relationship with me and through the use of my name, that。
authority can be seen here on earth."。
He had taught them to pray on earth as it is in heaven.。
And before he ascends, he says, "Now go and baptize," which really is a Greek word that。
means to immerse.。
He's like, "Immerse this world in the radical idea that there's a new authority that is。
greater than the authority of despair and death.。
It is an authority of life and new life.。
It is an authority that saves.。
Go and baptize in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.。
Have that authority be on your lips."。
The early church embraced this in really a profound and beautiful way, one that I think。
maybe the modern church needs to be reminded of.。
There's this great moment early on where one of the disciples, Peter, this is after Jesus。
has gone to the cross, resurrected and ascended, and they're left alone wondering what's next.。
And the Holy Spirit has filled them, and they're beginning to minister out of the flow of the。
Spirit.。
And Peter is walking past on this one particular day, one of the gates that leads to the temple.。
It's called the Gate of Beautiful.。
And lying beside that gate was a crippled beggar.。
And this crippled beggar reaches out to Peter and says, "Peter, would you give me some money?。
Would you give me some alms?。
Would you help me?"。
And I want to show you Peter's response because it shows us something about, I think, our。
response this Christmas.。
Verse 8 in Acts chapter 3, "Then Peter said, 'Silver or gold I do not have, but what I。
have I can give you.。
In the name of Jesus Christ, walk.'。
Taking him by the right hand, he helped him up, and instantly the man's feet and ankles。
became strong.。
He jumped to his feet," you can imagine that, "and began to walk.。
Then he went with them into the temple courts, walking and jumping and praising God."。
Imagine this moment.。
This is a true miracle.。
No offense, Alison, but this is not the magic of a snow machine blowing snow.。
This is an actual miracle.。
But notice it's not Peter who does the miracle.。
Peter's honest with the beggar.。
He says, "I can't give you money.。
I'm not poor.。
I'm not wealthy.。
I don't have the resources you're thinking, but I do have something.。
And what I do have I will give to you.。
I will speak in the name of Jesus, the name by which everyone can be saved.。
And in that authority, I believe that you could walk."。
And he takes him by the hand, he lifts him up, the guy jumps up, his legs are perfect,。
he walks into the temple, and he starts praising Jesus, standing there, jumping around in the。
temple, and everybody around him recognized him as the beggar who had sat for years at。
the Gate of Beautiful, and they're looking at him, and they're saying, "How come he's。
walking?"。
Can you imagine the moment?。
It's like, how did that happen?。
And so some of the rulers of the law come alongside of the man, and they say, "What。
is going on?。
What happened to you?"。
And he says, "Oh, this man Peter, he came to me, and he spoke in the name of Jesus,。
and I jumped up and started walking, and I'm who I am today because of Jesus."。
And the rulers and the authorities didn't like it.。
They didn't like it because they knew that word had been spread about this Jesus, and。
they thought this Jesus was a hypocrite.。
They thought this Jesus was someone who was against Yahweh.。
They wanted to route out the people that believed in this Jesus, and now here's this healed。
man jumping around the temple to everybody you can see, praising Jesus.。
And so they ask Peter to come before them and give an account for what he's done.。
Let me read you the account that he provides.。
I love Peter because Peter was always the spicy one, right?。
He says this.。
This is Acts chapter 4, verse 8.。
"Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to the rulers and elders, 'Rulers and。
elders of the people, if we are being called to account today for an act of kindness shown。
to a cripple and are asked how he was healed, then know this, you and all the people of。
Israel, it is by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, but whom。
God has raised from the dead, that this man now stands before you healed.。
This Jesus is the stone that you builders rejected, the one who has now become the cornerstone,。
for salvation is found in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given。
to people by which we must be saved.'"。
Can you imagine the audacity of Peter, whose name means rock, standing before these people。
and saying, "Hey guys, do you realize the one you killed, the one you crucified, it。
is by his name that this man was healed."。
And guess what?。
It is by his name that anyone can get healed.。
It is by his name that we are free.。
It is by his name that salvation, life, forgiveness, rejuvenation, restoration happens.。
There is no other name, he says, by which we can be healed and restored and renewed。
and filled with life.。
This, my friends, is the heart of the Christmas story.。
That when Jesus is named Jesus, God is declaring before a tired and weary world, there is hope,。
salvation, and grace for you, and that there will be no other name, no other way by which。
you can be restored and renewed and rejuvenated, not the name of your church.。
Come on.。
Not the name of your pastor.。
Not the name of your job.。
Not the name of your bank account.。
Not the name of your investment portfolio.。
Not the name of your favorite family member.。
Not the name of your favorite pop star.。
K-pop, not going to work.。
I love it.。
Not the name of anything else that you put your trust in, that you've relied on, even。
though many of those things can be great things for us.。
The only name that will save is the name of Jesus.。
Paul writes to the church in Ephesus, and he says, "There is no name that is higher。
than the name of Jesus, for there is no other name," Peter says, "by which we can be saved."。
That's very good news for you.。
That's very good news for you if you're a Christian already, because it is in the power。
of that name, like Peter, that you can now minister to the people of this world.。
It wasn't just the disciples that had this nice little gift of being able to say, "In。
the name of Jesus," it's the church, which happens to still be us today.。
But it's also great news for any of you here in this room that don't have a relationship。
with Jesus.。
Maybe you've been invited in today.。
Maybe family members dragged you to church on Christmas Day.。
Maybe you're here visiting, or maybe you've come to church a few times and you're still。
trying to work out what this whole thing is about.。
I want to just say to you what a beautiful thing it is that you can be here with us today.。
You are so welcome here.。
And you're welcome here because of what happened those 2,000 years ago.。
Because Jesus has come and was named the one who saves, you have hope that your current。
sense of despair can be replaced by this beautiful idea of hope and life and newness.。
Paul, also one of the disciples, writes, he says, "When we're in Christ Jesus," in other。
words, when we have relationship with this person Jesus, "we become new creations.。
The old has gone, the new has come."。
For some of you in this room today, maybe watching online in our overflow space, that's。
good news for you.。
That today with a decision to come to Jesus, your old can go and the new can come.。
I think when Peter said boldly to those people, "There is no other name," I think when he。
said to the beggar, "I don't have much, but what I do have I'll give to you, the name。
of Jesus."。
I think when the angel spoke to Joseph and said, "This is the name you are to name your。
child."。
God was standing back from all of that and saying, "Watch what is about to happen."。
You want to know what the good news of Christmas is?。
Is that we have a new name.。
That we now carry the name of Jesus.。
The name by which no other salvation can come, the name by which that sets us free, the name。
that is truly, my friends, joy to the world.。
Can I pray for us?。
Let's pray.。
Would you stand with me?。
(camera shutters)。
