Amen.。
Thank you worship team for leading us.。
That was beautiful.。
Thank you church.。
You guys can have a seat.。
Get yourselves comfortable.。
Good afternoon, my name's Ellison.。
It's an honor to be sharing God's word with you today.。
And yeah, the sun's shining,。
so everybody got here nice and dry.。
That's really good.。
Glad to be here.。
Well I'm not sure if you've noticed。
in the songs that we sing,。
in the popular songs that we sing,。
there is this sentiment, right?。
For some reason, there's this idea out there。
that to go a long distance for the one you love。
is really, really romantic.。
Okay, it's something really beautifully romantic about that.。
As the saying goes,。
distance makes the heart grow fonder, right?。
Technically, I guess what that means。
is the further you are apart,。
the more romantic it is, right?。
So I can testify to this a little bit.。
There was a period for about nine months, right,。
when Brittany and I were dating long distance,。
nine, 10 months.。
I was here in Hong Kong, she was back in Texas.。
And I have the receipts, okay?。
I'm not lying, okay?。
And she's sitting right there, so you can ask her.。
For nine months, every single day,。
I wrote a handwritten letter,。
put it in the mail, and sent it over to Texas, right?。
Sometimes it'd just be one word,。
like hello, or whatever, right?。
Sometimes it'd be like a little doodle I did during the day.。
But pretty much every single day,。
I would send a letter by mail to Brittany, right?。
And it was a good thing, right?。
Yeah, we still have those letters.。
If you ever wanna come over for dinner, I'll show you, okay?。
But there's that idea out there.。
We sing about it, there's popular songs about it.。
This is kinda old now, I'm dating myself.。
But do you remember the soundtrack。
for the first Space Jam movie,。
the original Space Jam movie with Michael Jordan, right?。
There was a song there called "For You I Will"。
by a pop star called Monica, right?。
And the lyrics go like this,。
I would cross the ocean for you.。
I would go and bring you the moon, all right?。
I would be your hero, your strength, anything you need.。
Right, a song that's made popular again,。
or actually I don't think it's ever been not popular,。
the Proclaimers, right?。
It's really famous, right?。
I would walk 500 miles, and I would walk 500 more, right?。
To be the man who walks 1,000 miles,。
1,000 miles to end up at your door.。
Right, Vanessa Carlton, you know, the do-do-do-do-do-do,。
you know, she also walks 1,000 miles, right?。
To just be with the person that she loves.。
Tonight, right, that's how she thinks.。
But it's kinda silly, right,。
when you think about these things.。
Because, okay, I'm sorry, Monica,。
but you are an R&B pop star, you're not an astronaut,。
you're not a nautical expert, okay?。
Do you know how even the smallest ocean。
is 14,000, 140,000 square kilometers wide?。
The moon is more than 380,000 kilometers away from Earth.。
I'm not sure she's capable of going to the moon and back.。
The average walking pace of someone,。
unless you're Carla Roscoe, who walks like lightning speed,。
is about three to four miles per hour.。
If you were to walk 1,000 miles without taking any breaks,。
the song should really go,。
I would walk 1,000 miles to see you in about two weeks.。
Not tonight, right?。
So, it's ridiculous, right?。
These things are just hyperboles,。
these things are just imagination, right?。
It's romanticized way of expressing our love for someone.。
But what would you be willing to do?。
Like, how far would you be willing to go。
for the one you love?。
These days, if you ask me,。
my distance and romance is a bit more limited, right?。
I get annoyed these days when after I sit down。
and Brittany goes, can you go and get me a glass of water?。
I'm like, all the way to the kitchen and back?。
Like, really?。
Like, I don't really have the energy for that, right?。
So, maybe I could do with being a bit more romantic。
these days as well.。
But we like the idea of this, right?。
We like the idea of someone doing something。
spectacular for us, of someone going all the lengths。
to the end of the world and back.。
It's romantic, it's good, but no one actually expects。
their loved ones to do these kind of things for them,。
do they?。
But here's the thing, and as cheesy as this sounds,。
I have to tell you, somebody has.。
All right, this is one of the key points。
we like to emphasize when it comes to the Christian faith.。
We have a savior who left his home in heaven,。
came down to earth, took on sin and darkness。
and shame and evil and injustice and all this other way。
the world's been messed up, died the death。
that was meant for us just because he loved us。
and he wanted to be near to us.。
And so in this process, we've been brought near to Jesus,。
he has also made us new.。
And we have been made new to carry out the many。
wonderful things that he has prepared for his children。
to do.。
This was a beautiful reminder, this was the message。
that Pastor Andrew said to us last week.。
But this is just the starting point.。
And if we want to know his love, his grace,。
his mercy and forgiveness, if we want to know。
the nearness of Christ, then there is a part。
for us to play as well, as his children,。
as his church, as his people.。
Being close to Jesus isn't just about soaking it all in。
and being in that space, but there's a challenge。
for us too, when we receive his love,。
there is something we have to do with it.。
And so we come to a point in our journey。
through the book of Ephesians, because like we said,。
yes, we've been blessed by God.。
Yes, our hope is in Christ.。
Yes, we have this resurrection power at work within us.。
We've been raised to life by God, but there's one reminder.。
God didn't do it just for you, the individual.。
He did it for everybody.。
And so if he did it for everybody, it means everybody。
is being brought near to Christ, which means。
there has to be unity as we're being brought together。
as one body.。
The question is, how?。
How do we have this unity in Christ?。
And the passage we're looking at today。
is gonna tell us a little bit about that.。
So I'm gonna read it, and we're gonna go through it。
and see what God has to say to us.。
Ephesians chapter two, verses 11 to 22.。
It says this.。
Therefore, remember that formerly you who were Gentiles。
by birth and called uncircumcised by those。
who call themselves the circumcision,。
which is done in the body by human hands.。
Remember that at that time you were separate from Christ,。
excluded from citizenship in heaven,。
and foreigners to the covenants of the promise,。
without hope and without God in the world.。
But now in Christ Jesus, you who were once far away。
have been brought near by the blood of Christ.。
For he himself is our peace, who has made the two groups one。
and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility。
by setting aside in his flesh the law。
with his commandments and regulations.。
His purpose was to create in himself one new humanity。
out of the two, thus making peace.。
And in one body to reconcile both of them to God。
through the cross by which he put to death their hostility.。
He came and preached peace to you who were far away。
and preached to those who were near.。
For through him we have both access。
to the Father by one spirit.。
Consequently, you are no longer foreigners and strangers,。
but fellow citizens with God's people,。
and also members of his household,。
built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets。
with Jesus Christ himself as the chief cornerstone.。
In him the whole building is joined together。
and rises to become a holy temple in the Lord.。
And in him you too are being built together。
to become a dwelling in which God lives by his spirit.。
So let's go back to Paul.。
Let's go back to this time in Ephesus.。
As we know, it's not an easy situation。
that Paul is speaking to when this letter that he wrote。
reached the people of Ephesus.。
Apart from the culture of the pantheon of gods。
that different people worshipped,。
there was also the very open and hostile division。
between Jews and Gentiles.。
The Jewish people stood firm on their faith。
in the part of God's history as his chosen people.。
And there were a few things that marked them out as such.。
And circumcision was one of these main things.。
That's the main emphasis of what Paul's trying to say here.。
Now the act of circumcision itself, of course,。
is rooted in their history.。
Given to Abraham by God, Genesis 17,。
the point of circumcision was a physical sign。
of the covenant that God had given his people.。
It was like a physical marking of you are separated。
to be a part of God's people.。
And so therefore circumcision became one of those things。
that was used against non-Jews to keep them separate.。
If a Gentile man wanted to enter into the community of God,。
the people of God, it was expected。
that he would have to be circumcised.。
This was the established mindset at the time.。
Which is why the point Paul is making here。
sounds actually really, really shocking.。
It would have sounded really shocking.。
Because Paul makes it obvious to the readers,。
to the hearers, to the listeners.。
It's obvious that circumcision, he says,。
no longer carries the importance that it used to.。
And one of the reasons he's saying that。
is because now it's actually being used to exclude people。
from entering into the community。
that God has called them to be.。
Right, Galatians 5, 6, Paul says this in a different way.。
For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision。
nor non-circumcision has any value.。
And why is this?。
Because Paul tells us circumcision is something。
that is done in the body by human hands.。
Now when Paul says by human hands,。
that's also significant here.。
Because against the backdrop of the idol worship of Ephesus,。
using the phrase by human hands,。
that's the same phrase that people would use。
to describe the idols that were being made。
by the people in Ephesus at the time.。
Those too were made by human hands.。
Right, lifeless, powerless objects.。
Not made by God, not designed by God,。
but only by humans, by their hands.。
And so therefore, by talking about circumcision。
in the same way, you would say that Paul's talking,。
this is circumcision, it's just like these idols.。
It's become a little bit irrelevant, right?。
It's got no power, it's no longer a critical part。
of your identity as God's chosen people.。
Now, what has this got to do with us?。
I just said circumcision 13 times, okay,。
in the past two minutes.。
What does this have to do with us?。
Well, let me ask you this way.。
What practices do we currently hold。
to keep people out of community with us?。
But yet, actually, this is something that's worthless。
in the eyes of God.。
We might not have something as physical,。
as outward as circumcision,。
so it might not be as obvious to us,。
but it's something we got to be asking ourselves,。
because if there are such barriers,。
then we need to name them for what they are,。
and name them for the worthless things they are,。
because they have no place in the community of God.。
Because as we're about to find out,。
there ought to be no barriers for those。
who want to enter into the community of Christ.。
No man-made barriers for those who want to enter。
into the community of Christ.。
So let's think about it this way, right?。
If you're here listening today,。
if you would call yourself a follower of Jesus,。
think back.。
Think back to when, before you became a Christian,。
before you came to know Jesus.。
What was your life like back then?。
Like most people, like myself,。
you probably wrestled with a lot of doubt, right?。
Questions and challenges as you began to come to grips。
with what it means to be a life,。
to live a life as a Christian, as a Christ follower.。
Right, there's probably already enough obstacles。
that you had to overcome without people。
putting more barriers up in the way.。
In fact, being separated from Christ,。
it's a terrible place to be, Paul says.。
There's five things that you are at a disadvantage at。
before you knew Jesus, okay?。
These are, okay, these are the things.。
You are separated from Christ,。
you are excluded from citizenship,。
foreigners to the covenant, without hope, without God.。
This is the way Paul is describing the Gentiles, okay?。
But it's also relevant to us.。
Before you come to know Jesus,。
before you are in God's people,。
these are the five things that you are。
sort of at a disadvantage for.。
And they come together to make a point,。
so let's talk about it.。
Firstly, being separated from Christ, right?。
Means you probably didn't even have the idea。
that there was a salvation that you needed, right?。
That there was a savior out there。
that would come to rescue humanity,。
that you were a sinner, indeed, of rescuing from your sins.。
Right, because like what Pastor Andrew said。
last week as well, right,。
back then you were spiritually dead, right?。
Dead people do not have the ability。
to raise themselves from the dead.。
Dead people need a savior, need someone to intervene,。
to give them the resurrection power。
to raise them from the dead.。
You cannot save yourself.。
You needed rescue.。
So that's what it means to be separated from Christ.。
Now, because the Gentiles weren't part。
of God's original people as well,。
they also didn't share in the first covenant,。
the blessings and the promises。
that God had originally planned for his people, right?。
The Abrahamic, the Mosaic, the Davidic covenants,。
they weren't a part of that.。
They were outsiders, which means back then。
they couldn't participate in God's promises.。
And therefore, that means they also had no hope。
because they had no God.。
Well, maybe they had a little bit of fake sense of hope。
and a little bit of idea of some gods, right?。
As we have discovered, there were so many gods。
that people, the Gentiles of Ephesus,。
before they came to know Jesus,。
were probably worshiping all sorts of different gods。
and idols that were a part of the culture.。
And in the same way, it probably was for us too.。
Before you came to Jesus,。
think about the things you used to put your hope in.。
Right, think about the things you might use to worship.。
Some of us might have come from homes and households。
that literally worship idols.。
For others, it might be idols of power and prestige。
and all these things in culture。
that we tend to put our hopes and dreams in.。
Whatever it is, this isn't true hope,。
and this isn't putting your hope in the true God.。
We lack connection to the one true God.。
We lack connection to hope,。
God who is the source of all life.。
So it's not a good picture.。
It's pretty clear what Paul's trying to say.。
We, like the Gentiles, were once about as far away。
from God as one could be.。
So let me ask you again, think about it.。
Do you remember a time when you were far away from Jesus,。
when you did not know him as your savior?。
Or perhaps if you're listening right now。
and you don't quite know Jesus as your savior yet,。
maybe you're sitting here listening,。
you're just exploring,。
you've heard a little bit about this Christianity thing,。
but you're not sure how legit it all is,。
and you're wondering, what is this talking about?。
What is this hope, what is this God?。
Let me say this very clearly, and I say this with love.。
At one point, all of us have been separated from Christ.。
All of us, right?。
And because we were separated,。
we weren't part of his promises.。
Of course God loves all people,。
but there's a certain benefit, there's certain promises,。
there's certain function as God's children。
that you can only know once you enter。
into a relationship with him.。
The point is this, being separated from Christ。
is not a good place to be.。
In fact, being separated from Jesus。
is probably the worst state that you could find yourself in.。
And I know that sounds drastic,。
but I don't say it lightly either, right?。
Because I know amongst us, in this church,。
in our city, in our world,。
there are people in so many different situations。
walking through some terrible things,。
walking through pain, trauma,。
stuff that you can't even think of,。
things you wouldn't wish upon your worst enemy.。
These things are tough, and yes,。
when we see people walking through these things,。
we need to walk alongside them, fight for them,。
pray for the healing, bring justice。
to those who are suffering.。
But I would say this, a person who is suffering,。
who is in pain, but who knows and is connected to Jesus。
is ultimately in a better place。
than someone who is comfortable,。
but is living without hope and without God.。
To be living in this world without hope and without God。
is a true tragedy, and it's as true then as it is today.。
But this is the good news.。
But now, Paul says, but now,。
we don't have to live this way.。
We don't have to live a life separated from God.。
We don't have to live a life separate from Jesus.。
We can enjoy his blessings.。
We can live in the calling and the purpose。
that he gives to us.。
We have that hope.。
We have God because in Christ Jesus,。
you who were once far away have been brought near。
by the blood of Christ.。
Jesus has done that for us.。
We have been brought near by Christ。
through his sacrifice, through his blood.。
And amen and praise God for this.。
This is the part that we could have never done for ourselves.。
Jesus has given us life.。
His incomparably great power has been at work within us,。
and this is nothing we can do for ourselves.。
And we can't do anything else but say thank you。
and accept his grace and his love and his mercy.。
But like I said, that's just the starting point.。
And being brought near to Jesus means a new era,。
a new season, a new direction in your life has begun.。
A new way to live is on offer.。
And this new way to live is not just about。
a certain group of people now.。
It's not just about individuals being brought close。
to Christ, but this is talking about all people,。
Paul is saying Jews and Gentiles alike.。
Two people that were once enemies with each other。
have now come together to become one,。
and this is where the challenge is.。
Because this new way to live involves peace.。
And it involves peace not just the peace。
that you have with God, but peace with each other.。
It involves everyone living as if there were。
no barriers between us, living as if nothing。
would be able to separate us from each other.。
Paul goes on to say this.。
For he himself is our peace, who has made the two groups one。
and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall。
of hostility by setting aside in his flesh。
the law with its commands and regulations.。
His purpose was to create in himself one new humanity。
out of the two, thus making peace.。
And in one body to reconcile both of them to God。
through the cross, to which he put to death,。
by which he put to death their hostility.。
Peace.。
Right, peace, this is the word that the world。
is crying out for at the moment.。
Apart from the bigger, more obvious wars。
that we see in our news feeds every day,。
Ukraine and Russia, Israel and Palestine,。
dominating the news 24/7 these days,。
but actually there's about 110 other armed conflicts。
going on in the world right now.。
We need peace.。
We want peace in this world.。
And indeed, we could do a whole sermon series。
on war and violence and how it breaks God's heart,。
the injustice of war, and when we see these things,。
we get moved to pray, right, we want these conflicts to end。
and we get passionate, we start social media campaigns,。
all that kind of stuff, and this is good.。
We want to raise awareness about these things.。
Great, that's fine.。
But perhaps before we wanna do something。
about these major wars we see around us,。
we need to address the conflicts and hostilities。
that lie closer to home.。
And this is what I wanna focus on today.。
Right, because for Paul and the Ephesians,。
these hostilities were close to home, right?。
They were between the Jews and the Gentiles.。
The prejudice, the hatred, the racism。
between the two groups was intense for many reasons.。
And so Paul's saying, we need to deal with this.。
We need to break down any hostility,。
any barriers that are stopping us。
from coming together as one right now.。
And so circumcision was one of those things,。
but the other thing that was keeping them separated。
was the Old Testament law.。
The Old Testament regulations that God had once。
commanded them to live by.。
Now here's the thing.。
For a season, the Old Testament laws。
were given to the Israelites were good, right?。
They were used to protect them。
from becoming like the nations around them.。
You see what happens when you read through the Old Testament.。
Every time the Israelites step away from those boundaries,。
right, they get carried away, they start worshiping idols,。
then God has to send all sorts of ways。
to let them know they've gone wrong, right?。
And then they start the whole cycle over again, right?。
Wait, first kings, second kings,。
all these kind of things keep happening。
because the Israelites fail to live in the regulation,。
in the protection of the laws that God has given to them.。
Now for a season, those were good.。
But very quickly, these laws also became。
a source of pride and arrogance.。
Meaning instead of being a fence to protect the Israelites,。
they started using it as a wall, as a barrier,。
as a sign of hostility to prevent people from coming in,。
to exclude people, to say, we're the people of God,。
we don't want you to be a part of us.。
Right, people became so focused。
on following these rules and regulations,。
they forgot that the purpose of these rules。
was to keep them close to God in the first place,。
not to make themselves look good as rule followers。
and as regulation followers.。
This is why Jesus gets angry。
with some of the religious leaders and Pharisees。
of his time.。
He calls them things like brooder vipers。
and whitewashed tombs.。
You look good on the outside, but in reality,。
your hearts are far away from God.。
Remember this, the point is that we have been brought near。
by the blood of Christ.。
And on the cross as Jesus died,。
his blood fulfills the old covenant.。
And so now, those who want to worship God。
don't have to do through rules and rituals and sacrifices,。
they simply have to come.。
In doing so, Jesus' death killed the hostility。
between Jews and Gentiles.。
The one who was slain also slayed the hate。
between two groups that were at enmity with each other.。
And so the result is this, something beautiful,。
even something surprising.。
See, the plan all along wasn't to make Gentiles。
become more Jewish so they could join。
into the nation of Israel.。
His plan was to create in himself one new humanity。
out of the two, thus making peace.。
This was never about conforming one people group。
to become more like the other,。
not about Gentiles making them Jewish。
or Jewish into Gentiles.。
It was always about creating something new,。
which is the body of Christ.。
It's almost romantic, the union of two groups。
coming together in one humanity.。
It sounds a bit like what Jesus says about marriage.。
The two become one flesh.。
They are no longer two, but one flesh.。
And so good, right?。
Bravo, we cheer at this.。
This is amazing.。
Two groups that were once at conflict with each other。
coming together to create something even more beautiful.。
It's like a fairy tale come true.。
Everyone likes that story.。
In fact, if you might say, actually, you know what?。
We've done this as a church.。
We're good.。
I mean, look around us.。
There's people from all over the world。
sitting with each other.。
We have peace.。
There's no fighting within our worship services.。
I don't really hear people cursing at each other.。
We're super friendly in this church.。
We're friendly, we invite new people.。
We even do the awkward thing sometimes。
when we sit down and say hello to your neighbor。
and no one ever goes, "Ee, not this person," right?。
Yeah, we're good here.。
We even pray with each other sometimes, right?。
Isn't that great?。
Okay, yeah, I will give us that.。
We don't have the very obvious Gentile Jewish divisions。
that Paul was talking about.。
We might not be openly fighting with each other, right?。
It's not the USC every time we gather together to worship.。
At the same time, I don't think we should be so naive。
to say that we've got everything right。
and there's no work to be done in creating unity and peace。
within this family, this body of Christ.。
I would say we shouldn't be so blind。
that in fact there might be some wars and hostilities。
that we hold against each other.。
But here's the problem.。
It's hard to see where these hostilities lay。
when you're not at the receiving end of them.。
It's hard to see where people do not feel at peace。
when we don't put ourselves in the shoes。
of those on the receiving end of injustice.。
Something I experienced myself really opened my eyes to this.。
So a few years ago, we were visiting my wife's wife.。
I say that three times, I said that now.。
I said it every time.。
My wife's wife, who's that, Kayla?。
I don't know, right?。
My wife's family in Texas.。
We took a road trip.。
And one of the stops we had on this road trip。
was in Nashville.。
We were going from Texas all the way up to Buffalo,。
into Niagara.。
So we looked at a nice, long road trip.。
And one of the stops was Tennessee.。
And I was super excited.。
Tennessee, the home of country music.。
I have to admit, I love country music.。
I might not look like it, but I love country music.。
Country music and hip hop.。
That's what dominates my Spotify playlist.。
Ask Emma and Promise, one of these days。
I'm gonna lead worship doing a country song。
and we'll see how it goes.。
But Nashville, is there anyone from Nashville。
or been to Nashville?。
Beautiful city, right?。
Amazing food, great atmosphere.。
But you walk down the high street, the main street,。
and there's about a thousand cowboy hats,。
aspiring musicians, a beautiful place.。
And so we decided to go to one of the honky tonks。
that they have.。
A honky tonk, by the way, is one of those bars。
that you go, it's like a dance hall.。
Live band, play music, you can have a beer,。
sit with people and have a good time, dance,。
and do all that kind of stuff, okay?。
So, imagine the scene.。
Here I am, a Chinese guy, walking into this honky tonk。
with my white Texan wife, hoping to have a good time.。
But the moment I walk in, right, and it wasn't everybody,。
but I just felt this two pair of eyes。
just staring at me immediately, the moment I walk in.。
Right, and I see that the man kind of leans over。
to the woman, whispers something in her ear,。
and having a conversation back and forth with each other,。
there's visibly pointing at me now.。
Okay, I have to admit, I didn't hear what they said,。
right, they could have been, whoa, look at that guy,。
he's super cool, right?。
(audience laughing)。
They could have been saying that, okay,。
but that wasn't the vibe I got from them,。
that wasn't the sense I got from them, okay?。
What they were communicating actually was,。
what are you doing here?。
You see that guy that just walked in?。
Why did he just walk in here?。
He doesn't belong in here.。
Obviously, they didn't want me there.。
Now, apart from Brittany, who was with me,。
no one else noticed, right?。
The rest of the people that were with didn't notice, right?。
Why should they?。
No one's ever looked at them in that way,。
no one's ever judged them in that way.。
They've been to a thousand honky tonks.。
Every time they go in, they have a fun,。
they have a good time, all right, it's great.。
But for me, the night was over, all right?。
Then the moment that happened, I just wanted。
to get out of there as quickly as possible,。
and so we left.。
Okay, let's bring it a bit closer to home.。
When I walked into the building this morning,。
as I do every Sunday, when I walk in, I feel good.。
I feel confident, right?。
I feel like I belong here.。
I don't worry about how people are gonna treat me.。
I don't feel like people are gonna say,。
"You're not supposed to be here."。
I've never experienced anything like that here.。
People are always kind and friendly and respectful.。
For some strange reason, some of you even want。
to come and speak to me, okay?。
It's great for me.。
But I wonder if we could confidently say。
that this is the same experience everyone has。
when they come into this building.。
I wonder if this is the same experience。
that people can say they have when they go。
into other places, other establishments here in Hong Kong.。
I wonder for some if coming even here to the Vine,。
walking into this church building for worship on Sunday。
might feel a bit like me walking。
to the honky-tonk that night.。
Perhaps for some of us, coming here every Sunday,。
there's just a bit of nervousness,。
a little bit of worry about whether or not。
people are gonna treat me with respect.。
Maybe some of us come into this space feeling。
there are walls, there are unspoken rules。
and hostilities between us as a body of Christ.。
Just because you haven't felt it or seen it。
doesn't mean it's not happening.。
In fact, one of the most powerful barriers。
that happen without us even realizing it,。
and it's one of the ways it happens most frequently,。
is with our language and the way we speak。
about each other and other people.。
And I'm speaking specifically to Cantonese,。
Hong Kong Chinese, Cantonese speakers here.。
But even if you're not a Cantonese speaker,。
you can probably contextualize it to apply it。
to your own identity, your own culture。
from what your sphere is.。
Because I would say this, a lot of Cantonese language。
is very casually racist, not even low-key racist,。
like properly racist.。
Common racial slurs in Cantonese,。
terms like hak kwai when we're referring to black people.。
Things like a-tah or a-sing when we're referring。
to Indian, Pakistani, and South Asian people groups.。
These are terms that Chinese Cantonese speakers。
say behind the backs of these people。
as a derogatory way of referring to them.。
You could even say guai lo is sort of like。
embraced right now as a term, but if you think about it,。
the origins of that aren't very friendly either.。
Or what about the way we refer to our Filipino sisters?。
The term ban muy when we're talking about。
our Filipino foreign domestic workers.。
In fact, when it comes to them, right,。
we forget that they are human beings sometimes.。
Some of the conversations over here are shameful。
when it comes to the way we refer to our Filipino sisters。
who live and work in the city, serving our families.。
Often they're talked about like they're commodities.。
Oh, this one's not good, this one's not good at that,。
this one, and then they talk about them。
like they're commodities, things that they can get rid of。
when it's no longer convenient for them.。
This is the kind of language we use very frequently.。
What about attitudes towards Hong Kongers。
used towards our mainland brothers and sisters?。
Now I struggle with this.。
When I see those tour groups getting off the bus,。
when I'm being crowded on the Star Ferry,。
when I'm just trying to relax or take in the views。
or enjoy the Star Ferry ride and there's like 500 people。
walking in at the same time, it's all loud and crazy,。
I admit that the feelings that come out in my heart,。
in my mind, are not very pleasant sometimes.。
They're ugly and they're wrong.。
I wrestle with this.。
We need to do better than this, church, right?。
We need to do better than this.。
We can do better than this.。
Because if this is the way we talk,。
then how are we gonna relate to each other。
if this is the sort of like, in the back of our minds,。
this is the prejudice that we've already set up.。
These are walls of hostility。
that we've already set up against other people.。
So we need to do better.。
This means watching your own language,。
being aware of the words that come out of your mouth.。
This might even mean sticking out a little bit。
when you overhear conversations。
or when you're amongst your friends。
and they start throwing out those terms sort of freely.。
We need to call it out for the sin it is。
and refuse to participate in it.。
The point is this.。
If the church is just a reflection。
of what our culture is like,。
especially when it comes to racial and cultural prejudice,。
then I would say it shows we haven't fully understood。
the message of the gospel even.。
If we do not have unity that Jesus has called us to,。
then maybe we haven't fully embraced。
the power of the cross.。
We fail to see God's heart.。
His desire was to bring all people unity,。
to reconcile all people together.。
Yes, Jesus died for your sins on the cross,。
so you could have a transforming, powerful, meaningful life,。
all that good stuff.。
We know that.。
But let me read verse 15 and 16 once again.。
His purpose then was to create in himself。
one new humanity out of the two, thus making peace.。
And in one body to reconcile both of them to God。
through the cross by which he put to death。
their hostility, all hostility.。
So if we claim to love Jesus, we claim to love his word,。
we claim to love worshiping him,。
then we must take seriously the demands。
that he has called us to live in unity。
and in peace with each other.。
This means we have work to do, church.。
We have to be serious about continuing。
to tear down the barriers, both seen and unseen,。
starting with this family right here,。
because that is exactly what Jesus has done.。
And if we don't do that, or if we even worse,。
continue to put up walls,。
then we're literally trying to undo what God has done.。
It's literally swapping the truth of God's word for a lie.。
It's rebelling against what God has, which is sin.。
We don't wanna be a church, right,。
that says peace, peace, when there is no peace.。
Right, like I said, there's no conflict happening here,。
but peace isn't just the absence of conflict.。
You can squash conflict in many different ways.。
You could get an autocratic leader or someone like that。
to come and just dominate with his power.。
Nobody's, everybody's too afraid to make a move, right?。
That could look like peace on the surface,。
but that's not true peace.。
Peace is where everybody can flourish.。
Peace is when everybody can be what God created them to be,。
regardless of age, gender, color, social status,。
whatever other barriers that we might have put up.。
The point is this, Jesus longs for his church。
to overcome the cultural barriers of racism, nationalism,。
economic pride, and to embody a practical way。
which he created it to be,。
an attractive yet countercultural family of people。
very different from one another,。
but who love each other deeply。
and display the presence of God who is near.。
The presence of God is best displayed in a church。
that is at true peace with each other,。
that has true unity with each other.。
We want this place to be a place。
where the presence of God is pleased to dwell.。
That's the whole point of coming together as a church,。
isn't it?。
If the presence of God isn't here, then we're not a church.。
The building, this isn't what makes the church.。
The presence of God with us, that's what makes us a church.。
And so if we're gathering without God's presence,。
we're not a church.。
This is like a TED Talk every Sunday,。
motivational speaker, good band, okay, at best.。
At worst, we're like a cult that gets together every Sunday.。
That's not who we want to be.。
We want to be a place where Jesus sits at the heart,。
at the foundation of everything that we do,。
because it's only through Jesus, Paul says,。
that the whole building is joined together.。
In Christ, the whole building is joined together.。
He becomes the dwelling place which God lives by his spirit.。
This is the temple of the Lord.。
And as we have said, when this happens,。
then there is true peace.。
Then there is true unity, when there is reconciliation。
between all people.。
So it's a big calling.。
It's a big calling.。
But we have to keep working at it.。
And God knows this, right?。
It's going to be a journey.。
Because this is what Paul says.。
In him, you too are being built together。
to become a dwelling in which God lives by his spirit.。
When he says being built, right,。
this means it's a work in progress.。
We are not gonna get perfect at this.。
Jesus knows that.。
But it reminds us that we need to keep going.。
We need to be willing to do the hard work,。
excuse me, to go through the process of continuing。
to figure out what it means to be built together.。
This is an ongoing work and it's not going to end。
until Jesus returns again.。
This isn't a project that we take on for a while。
and put on the back burner, right?。
It's, you know, Social Justice Awareness Week.。
So we take on this work and then we put it。
on the back burner again.。
This is something we have to commit and promise each other。
that we're going to do.。
Always to work on peace.。
Always to seek unity.。
Always to be reconcilers.。
Because this is the type of community。
that God is delighted to dwell in.。
In fact, I would say this is the kind of peace。
that the world needs to see.。
This is how we become a reflection of what's in heaven。
as done on earth.。
We can't just be a gathering of people if God is not here.。
But it has to be done under the church.。
The only way that we ever will see true peace in the world,。
again, this is why the church is so important.。
The only thing that brings people together。
that will last forever, the only thing that everyone。
can be fully unified under is Jesus.。
Because he is our source of life.。
He is everyone's source of life.。
So church, let's build ourselves up.。
Let's be that temple, let's be that space。
that God is pleased to dwell in。
where he sees his children gathering together。
no matter who they are and where they're from,。
breaking down these walls of hostility.。
I'm gonna give you three tips, three action steps,。
three things you can take home and consider,。
practical things you can do to start doing this.。
These steps are taken from the Difference course.。
And if you Google Difference course,。
you'll find it's a fantastic resource。
to learn more about what peacemaking actually means.。
So three things we can do.。
Firstly, it's this, be curious.。
Be curious.。
This means listening to each other.。
This means learning to see the world。
through other people's eyes.。
Sitting down with someone that you're not familiar with,。
sitting down with someone who has a different background。
to you and hearing their story。
and allow them to hear yours as well.。
Ask each other the questions.。
The moment we get to know each other,。
so many barriers will naturally come down。
just as we get to know each other.。
Be present.。
Now don't just do it for the sake of doing it,。
but put your heart into it.。
Be present with each other.。
Meet each other with authenticity and confidence.。
Stick up for each other when things come up.。
Be advocates for each other.。
Be present.。
And finally, re-imagine.。
This means that we have to have that faith,。
that hope that this work can be done.。
The work of peace can be done,。
despite how bleak things look at times.。
Be reassured that this is God's heart.。
And if the Lord desires to see this happen,。
then nothing can stop it from happening.。
And of course, finally, we have to pray.。
We have to pray.。
We pray because the enemy hates unity.。
Well, this whole mess with sin。
started when the enemy tried to put distance,。
successfully, between humans and God.。
Right, this is why Paul tells us,。
later in Ephesians,。
do not give the devil any space to work in this.。
We have to keep working on our unity.。
Don't let the sun go down。
while you're angry with your brother and sister.。
This is how the devil gets a foothold.。
In other words, all the barriers that we have put up,。
all the barriers that have been threatened to put up,。
we need to deal with, and we need to deal with it now.。
And so, church, we must pray.。
The task is large,。
and it's gonna take everybody working together。
to put effort into this.。
But know that as we do this,。
this is what pleases God's heart.。
This is the kind of church that God wants to see.。
This is what the church is called to be.。
This is what the world needs to see in answer。
to the fighting and the violence。
and the wars that are going on out there,。
that if we're unified under the one true God,。
under the source of all life,。
we can truly have peace,。
no matter who we are, where we come from.。
We can truly be that place where we live。
without any barriers, without any prejudice,。
where we come together, get to know each other,。
because that's how God has drawn us together under his name.。
You have been called to be a peacemaker.。
So, church, let's go and make peace in the name of Jesus.。
Would you pray with me?。
[silence]。
Yeah, Lord, we just,。
yeah, we acknowledge that this is a great challenge。
that you set for us,。
and there's a lot of homework we can do on this,。
a lot of ways we can reflect on。
how we've participated in this,。
the own barriers that we've put up in our own hearts.。
Even within this body,。
perhaps there's some of us who have felt judged。
and mistreated,。
discriminated against.。
If that's where we've been, if that's our story,。
we pray for comfort,。
and we pray for the truth to speak louder than the lies,。
to say that God loves you and recognizes you。
and welcomes you, no matter what other people have said.。
And for all of us, we need to look at the prejudices。
that we hold in our own hearts,。
to see the ways we've put up walls and barriers。
that might have stopped people from entering。
into knowing who you are,。
where we haven't been a reflection of your love.。
Jesus, in those ways, work in our hearts,。
help us to understand the other,。
people who are different to us.。
And culturally, yes, it's a cultural, it's a race thing,。
but also through the generations,。
through class and socioeconomic barriers,。
through gender barriers,。
through sexual orientation barriers,。
through social status barriers, whatever it may be, Lord,。
you have come so we can have true peace and unity。
under your name.。
So help us be a church that reflects that.。
Help us be a church that always prays for your peace,。
for true peace and true unity,。
so that we can demonstrate to the world。
that when we come under the all-powerful,。
almighty, all-loving name of Jesus,。
he creates us to be something more beautiful,。
a new humanity where we can all live and thrive。
and be who God has called us to be,。
the unique gifts that you've given everybody,。
where we can truly fit together as one body。
and function for the glory of the name of Jesus.。
So keep working in us, Lord, and keep us near to you,。
keep us near to each other.。
Grant us your peace, we pray, in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
(gentle music)。
[MUSIC]。
