(speaking in Cantonese)。
(speaking in Cantonese)。
(speaking in Cantonese)。
(speaking in Cantonese)。
made a difficult decision.。
We decided to move to Singapore from another point of view.。
Of course, leaving the country had a permanent impact。
on our life and our daily lives.。
In a way, we were in a second place,。
facing a new beginning and a new challenge.。
But my wish was to make a breakthrough in my work and personal life.。
So I had a feeling of walking on this path without regret.。
But on the road of life,。
we may go to different places in different directions.。
We may worry about our future.。
We may be confused about choosing another path.。
We may worry about missing out on certain benefits.。
Of course, if we decide to walk on a certain path,。
to some extent, we may be walking on a path that is not our own.。
I would like to share an English poem with you.。
It is called "The Road Not Taken" by Robert Frost.。
I will read a bit of the English content.。
You can check out the Chinese version.。
It is coming.。
Two roads diverged in a yellow wood,。
And sorry I could not travel both,。
And be one traveler long I stood,。
And looked down one as far as I could,。
To where it bends on the undergrowth.。
It is a four-line poem.。
Let's skip to the fourth paragraph.。
I shall be telling this with a sigh,。
Somewhere ages an ages hence,。
Two roads diverged in the wood,。
And I, I took the one less traveled,。
And that has made all the difference.。
I think it is a bit romanticizing the choice.。
The "road less traveled" is a path chosen by fewer people.。
But what I want to share with you today is。
how we deal with the consequences of our choices。
when we have chosen a path that we have never taken.。
The author of this poem is a bit of a conspirator.。
He is a friend who is always in doubt.。
He always wonders。
why he did not choose another path.。
When he is walking in the woods,。
he wonders if the scenery of another path would be more beautiful.。
For this author,。
no matter how we choose the two paths,。
it is still an ideal choice.。
If we keep on pondering。
the "what if"。
in our regrets,。
we are actually losing the pleasure of walking this path.。
Why?。
Why not devote ourselves to the beauty of this moment?。
For me, I chose to emigrate.。
But what is special is that I met Jesus on the other side of the world.。
My life has undergone a great change.。
Since the first quarter of the century,。
since that encounter,。
I have redesigned the path I am going to take.。
Including how I view my work, my life, and my service.。
Today, I am giving my life to Jesus.。
I want to share with you in today's 20 minutes。
how Paul experienced Jesus on the way back from Jerusalem.。
You will remember that in the whole New Testament,。
the two most important characters, Jesus and Paul,。
had a very special encounter on the way.。
I can say that it was a very dramatic encounter.。
Paul really walked on a path of no return.。
At that time, Paul, or we can call him Saul,。
was a follower who wanted to persecute Jesus.。
He received a written commandment from the Council of Jerusalem.。
He took this commandment to Damascus。
to arrest the local people who believed in Jesus.。
But it was very dramatic and amazing.。
He met Jesus on this path.。
Jesus not only showed himself to him,。
but also instructed Paul to pass on this good news to the people of the outside world.。
So Paul, in the scripture we are going to read today,。
how did he describe this dramatic change?。
In the first chapter of the Scripture,。
Paul said, "Have you heard of my life in the Jewish community?。
How did I exert my strength to oppress and persecute the Church of God?。
In the Jewish community, I am more aggressive than many of my fellow countrymen,。
and I am more passionate about the tradition of my ancestors.。
Yet, that one distinguished me from the unbelievers,。
and called me by his name,。
and has given me his son,。
and has made me a messenger in the outside world."。
Here, there is a little response,。
like what Jeremiah said in the Old Testament,。
"I have known you when I was in my mother's womb,。
and I have to distinguish between the two."。
This distinction, calling, and the God's revelation to us,。
are actually the ways of faith in the Bible.。
How does he distinguish us,。
call us, and give us advice?。
This opens up a completely different perspective.。
The path that each of us has to take is actually in the divine will.。
The "uncertain" and "uneasy" that we just shared,。
the direction of "uneasy" is naturally different.。
What we are sharing today is Paul's personal autobiography.。
He mentions how he met Jesus,。
and how he went about his mission.。
Why? Because he wants to remind the believers of the Galatians。
that the original message he shared with them was this,。
the gospel of Jesus Christ,。
so that they can have complete freedom,。
and enter the holy city of Jesus Christ,。
without having to meet the strict requirements of the Jewish faith,。
especially the rite of passage.。
I will give a little explanation。
to help you understand the first chapter,。
and the second chapter, which is a long chapter in the Bible.。
We call it "Year Zero."。
Year Zero is the moment when Jesus and Paul met.。
In the next chapter, Paul describes。
the vision of his original Jewish love.。
He served in Damascus for three years.。
In the second chapter,。
he talks about the situation when he was once again able to cross the Jordan River.。
Let's see what the Bible says in chapter 1, verse 11.。
"Brothers, I want you to know that the gospel I preach is not according to human means,。
because I am not led by human beings,。
and no one is teaching me,。
but by the instructions of Jesus Christ.。
You have heard of my actions in the Jewish faith,。
and how I have been desperately persecuting the Church of God.。
But this one has made me come out of the womb,。
and has called upon my God,。
and has willingly cast his Son into my heart,。
so that I may preach him among the people."。
Paul describes how he met Jesus Christ.。
Three years later, he went to Jerusalem to meet Peter,。
and stayed with him for a dozen days.。
He also met other disciples.。
He didn't have a chance to meet other believers.。
He wrote a letter to Jesus, and told him that he had not lied to God,。
and that he had not met other believers in the area of Jerusalem and the Galilee.。
But they heard and knew that the faith that had persecuted them before。
had now spread to the area of the faith that had been destroyed.。
They gave their glory to God for his forgiveness.。
Why did Paul need to spend so much time to talk about his own self-transformation?。
It is actually a thesis.。
First, he said that the core of his response, his faith,。
came directly from Jesus Christ.。
Second, he did not have any special contact with the believers in Jerusalem,。
and he did not receive their teachings there.。
Why? Because for the believers of the Galilee,。
they began to doubt whether Jesus really revealed himself to Paul,。
and whether Paul's message was a true gospel,。
a gospel that was blessed by the core of the Galilee.。
But let's first look at Paul's own experience.。
We generally call it the road of Damascus.。
It is a very special scene.。
Sometimes we will have a firm heart and be determined to walk that road.。
Paul or Saul had to decide to persecute the Jews.。
Of course, it was a very important decision for his career and his life.。
But God had a higher purpose.。
At that time, Jesus would reveal himself,。
and for his holy purpose,。
he could completely subvert our lives.。
Was he opposing the gospel or spreading it?。
When Paul thought about his struggle,。
and when he had the opportunity to share his experience,。
he said this.。
He described the situation from his own mouth.。
He said that when he met Jesus,。
he fell to the ground,。
heard a voice speak to him in Hebrew,。
"Saul, Saul,。
why are you persecuting me?。
You are kicking a stick with your feet,。
and you are suffering.。
It is very special.。
This kind of struggle is actually present in every believer's experience.。
Sometimes we want to kick Jesus,。
and we are struggling.。
Why?。
Why?。
Jesus said,。
"Actually, I have given you a very special mission.。
In your life, in the road ahead of you,。
Jesus will have a special arrangement."。
Back to the Catholic faith.。
Saul wanted to share his experience with the Catholic faith。
because he was really shocked。
why the Catholic faith。
could so quickly have a backlash。
against their original faith.。
It is actually a very interesting comparison.。
Paul or Saul。
were originally the most orthodox followers of the Jewish faith,。
but as he encountered Jesus,。
his life changed completely.。
He completely believed in the salvation Jesus Christ could bring.。
But when he preached the gospel。
to the followers of the Gentiles,。
they accepted the gospel at first,。
but they were misled,。
and they rejected Christ,。
and embraced Judaism instead.。
It was a huge contrast.。
So Paul hoped that through his own experience,。
he could be an encouragement to the followers.。
Paul's experience was completely out of grace.。
If you look back at Paul's life,。
I don't know if you are like me,。
sometimes you are worried.。
It is best if God does not speak to me.。
Because if God really shows himself to me,。
it may change the course of my life.。
But don't worry.。
God will really speak to you.。
God will really speak to you.。
At the right time,。
at the right moment,。
he will distinguish you.。
He will remind us of the calling in our lives,。
and show us the way.。
But everyone can rest assured,。
his gospel is enough for Paul to use,。
and enough for each of us to use.。
On the path of our life,。
we will always return to the starting point.。
Sometimes we will reach the crossroads of life,。
and we will have to face a new level of choices.。
We call this a difficulty.。
Sometimes it is really difficult.。
We settled in Singapore,。
and we were part of the local community,。
especially the church life.。
But after about 8 or 9 years,。
I received an invitation to work in Hong Kong.。
Long story short,。
I was invited to work in a local university.。
I was wondering if this was God's guidance,。
and if I could open up a new path。
to enter the Hong Kong environment.。
I also made a contribution to my profession.。
But the process was very long.。
I was in the hospital for two years,。
and I still didn't get a job offer.。
I was the last person to get a job offer.。
We set off for a short mission in India.。
India is a very hot country.。
It was really very hot.。
It was about 37 degrees.。
It was only 35 degrees on that day.。
We went to the last day of the mission,。
and we had a rest and relax.。
We visited the local church,。
and we walked up the hill.。
The church was on the hill.。
We listened to a very special song.。
It was a worship song by Hill Song Kids.。
The song was called "Rainbow in the Sky."。
"Rainbow in the Sky"。
We had to teach the kids how to sing it.。
"Rainbow in the sky to tell God's promises is true."。
"Rainbow in the sky"。
It was a rainbow in the sky。
to tell us God's promises are true.。
We looked up,。
and we saw a rainbow.。
It was a 35-degree sunny day.。
We saw a double rainbow.。
We knew that this was a sign and a reminder from God.。
We finished the trip and went back to Singapore.。
I opened my mailbox and received a job offer.。
So today we are in Hong Kong.。
We went back to Hong Kong 16 years ago.。
We are also very happy to be able to meet you。
in the Church of the Apostles in Pudong today.。
The grace of God.。
We read the second chapter of the Book of Galatians.。
Paul said that he was inspired by God。
and went to Jerusalem.。
Why? Because he knew that the faith of the whole Church。
was facing a very important hurdle.。
To a certain extent, they had to decide。
how to clarify the status of the faith of the whole Church。
and the original Jewish faith.。
This can even be said to be the most important turning point。
in the history of early Churches.。
What does the second chapter say?。
He said that after 14 years of the faith of the Apostles,。
he went to Jerusalem again.。
Barabbas accompanied him and brought Titor with him.。
Titor was a foreigner.。
He was inspired to go up there。
and to explain the gospel that was spread among the foreigners。
to the brothers in Jerusalem.。
He also secretly explored the faith of the other famous people,。
including Aaron, Peter, and John.。
In case his previous work became a rumor,。
he went with Titor, a Hebrew,。
but he did not force himself to accept the gospel.。
But the brothers in Jerusalem who had sneaked in。
encouraged us to get freedom in Christ,。
to be slaves.。
But in order to let the truth of the gospel。
remain in the hands of the Church of Gethsemane,。
Barabbas did not give in at all.。
Then it goes on.。
On the contrary, when the Jews were in the hands of the Church of Jerusalem,。
they saw that the Lord entrusted Barabbas。
to pass the gospel to those who had not yet been justified,。
just as he entrusted Peter to pass the gospel to those who had been justified.。
The one who moved Peter to ask him to be a disciple of those who had been justified。
also moved me, Paul, to ask me to be a disciple of the foreigners.。
So the Church of Gethsemane witnessed。
the grace of the Lord in me, Paul,。
and the right hand of Barabbas to bless and cooperate with me.。
And also to let our team continue to serve among the foreigners.。
This is a very important decision in the history of the Church.。
To some extent, it is a way to distribute the gospel.。
To some extent, it also accepts the believers of the foreigners。
to worship God freely.。
We use the theory of the "Nam Galatia" to explain the history at that time.。
Because it is similar to the 15th chapter of the "Torah"。
but there is a little conflict.。
We can roughly understand it this way.。
Paul first preached to the people, including the place where Galatia was.。
Then he had the opportunity to write a book on Galatia。
to encourage the Galatian foreign believers who were mobilized at that time.。
Then he attended the General Assembly of Jerusalem that followed。
to decide whether the foreign believers should obey the Jewish law.。
The Pope at that time proposed that all foreign believers should accept the national anthem.。
Their suggestion was passed on to the Antiochian and Galatian churches。
and even shook the believers of Galatia at that time.。
What did they actually advocate?。
It's actually very simple.。
Their formula is that the grace of God plus the law of obedience。
is equal to the grace of God.。
Paul was very determined to resist this view.。
For Paul, for our message today,。
we believe that the real anthem is the grace of God.。
There is no other.。
It is equal to the grace of God.。
Grace, no other, is already the grace of God.。
This is exactly what Paul wanted to adhere to.。
He wanted to advocate to explain to the Antiochian the anthem.。
What he explained to the Antiochians was grace.。
Only grace can witness the grace of God.。
Sometimes when we discuss, it's very strange.。
Why is there such an important dispute in the so-called national anthem?。
I also try to help everyone understand what the national anthem is.。
The national anthem is actually the national anthem we usually talk about.。
Now there are many new national anthems.。
Just follow the tradition and you can do it.。
The national anthem was a very important social meaning at that time.。
I try to help everyone understand a different direction from this perspective.。
In the original faith of the Jews,。
the national anthem was of course Abraham and God's covenant.。
All the Israelites accepted the covenant on the eighth day.。
Of course, later it was introduced to Jeremiah.。
He said that we must also practice the covenant in our hearts.。
That is, we must experience God again.。
It is a metaphor to show a new form of covenant.。
But how to adhere to this on the social level?。
Everyone should know that Israel was a nation that was lost.。
For a while, Heliopus ruled the place of the Jews.。
One of the most cruel rulers in Heliopus was Antiochus.。
He had a commandment.。
All the herds that accepted the covenant。
and all the mothers that were given to these herds had to be killed.。
Because he wanted to completely control this nation in culture and society.。
So everyone can understand the reaction.。
It means to emphasize that we must continue to adhere to the covenant.。
In fact, it is a very important identity mark.。
They are standing upright to carry out this covenant。
to show that they are the children of God.。
And later, it emphasizes the Leviticus and the end of the world.。
All of this is at the height of the New Testament.。
It means to look forward to the coming of Messiah.。
But the prelude to Messiah's coming。
is that the whole of Israel, the whole of the Holy Land。
will no longer have non-Jews who do not obey the covenant.。
It means that everyone must have this identity mark。
so that you can enter God's perspective.。
The coming of Messiah.。
So there is a very strong social background。
that affects why there are so many Jews。
who emphasize the need to obey the law and the covenant.。
Because they feel that everyone must return to the most traditional。
and authentic Judaism。
before the Savior of God descends.。
This is what we call the "new identity marker" in the New Testament.。
But the New Testament reminds us。
that Christ set us free。
to give us freedom.。
So we must stand firm.。
Do not be controlled by the demons of the Lord.。
I, Paul, remind everyone。
that if you accept the covenant,。
Christ will not be against you.。
The believers of the Galatians may have been。
disturbed by the Jewish party.。
They return to their original position,。
a crossroad,。
a place that needs to be diverged.。
Between Jesus, the way of Christ,。
and the way of the law,。
they are thinking whether they should go back。
to the path they never took.。
Why?。
Because they are eager to confirm。
that they have already obtained salvation。
through their own efforts.。
They seem to have forgotten。
that they have already obtained freedom by the covenant.。
This also involves the topic of identity recognition.。
What is interesting is that。
in the Roman society at that time,。
a group of foreign believers。
accepted the Christian faith that originated from Judaism.。
In terms of identity recognition,。
we can imagine how they are in a room.。
They are called "hypocrites."。
They want to go back to their original position,。
to do more。
to fight for their own identity recognition.。
This is understandable.。
In fact, it is not surprising。
that we need to find identity recognition。
in today's situation.。
Even if we are believers today,。
we have received the grace of Jesus Christ,。
but on the other hand,。
we want to use our own efforts。
to establish our identity.。
In the Church,。
in the perspective of Jesus Christ,。
I believe that through our own efforts,。
we can better control our lives,。
and we can be more delighted with God.。
We all have times when we are shaken.。
I am no exception.。
I came back to Hong Kong to work.。
I also had times when I was disillusioned with my work.。
I felt that my career was declining.。
In addition to my physical condition,。
I was stuck.。
I felt that I could not。
move forward in my career.。
At that time, I was wondering。
what would happen if I stayed in Singapore.。
What achievements would I have?。
What legacy would I leave behind?。
How would my life be different?。
Would it be better?。
Even my own personal belief,。
if I am in this situation today,。
in this physical condition,。
how can I continue to serve God?。
How can I continue to hold on?。
There are many reasons.。
At this time, I actually returned my focus。
to myself.。
What do I want to achieve?。
What do I want to do?。
More than the original God's indication to me。
that I have to do something,。
or even Jesus told me。
that I don't need to do anything,。
or that I don't need to be lazy.。
As followers of Jesus Christ,。
we should know clearly。
that we are being distinguished,。
being called.。
Jesus Christ also showed us。
that we should not retreat.。
We should not retreat to the path。
that we thought was safer.。
Paul has a legacy。
that I think can be our encouragement.。
Fast forward,。
after this encounter,。
Paul had another chance to catch Jerusalem.。
He had already completed three missionary journeys.。
He had to go to Jerusalem。
to report his missionary work.。
But he was arrested in Jerusalem.。
After that, he was interrogated at the Jewish Council in Jerusalem.。
It seemed that his service,。
even his life,。
would come to an end.。
Because he might face death.。
There, he protested against the Jewish Council.。
After the protest,。
something very special happened that night.。
That night, Jesus was by his side again.。
He said, "Don't worry."。
Jesus told Paul, "Don't worry.。
No matter how you testify for me in Jerusalem,。
you will certainly testify for me in Rome."。
It was amazing.。
Paul seemed to have lost his way.。
But Jesus helped him again,。
opened a new path.。
In an unexpected situation,。
Paul was arrested in Jerusalem.。
But because he appealed to Caesar,。
the court of justice in Rome,。
he was able to embark on a miraculous journey.。
He went through the Mediterranean storm。
and finally arrived in Rome.。
And because he arrived in Rome,。
he brought the gospel to Rome.。
In the three chapters,。
"Paul, Saul, and John"。
"On the Way Back to Jerusalem,"。
Jesus told him in detail.。
First, he told him about Jesus' plan in his life.。
Second, he told him to defend his faith。
and encourage the Galatians who were in turmoil。
not to go back on their way.。
Third, when Paul felt that he was going nowhere,。
Jesus comforted him,。
"I will still open a way for you."。
I hope this can be a source of encouragement。
for all the viewers.。
You have a special destiny.。
At some point in your life,。
God will reveal to you。
his plan in your life.。
We all know that sometimes。
we feel shaken.。
We want to go back.。
But Jesus reminds us。
that his grace is enough for us to use.。
Finally, when you really。
reach a certain point in your life,。
you feel like you are going nowhere,。
Jesus is willing to comfort you.。
He will open a way for you.。
I wish you all the best.。
I invite our worship team。
to respond to this message.。
I have chosen an old song。
but I think it can be an encouragement.。
"I have decided to follow Jesus,。
no turning back, no turning back."。
