Can we thank Carla and just bless her as well?。
It is honestly so, so good to be back.。
I am so grateful to be welcomed back.。
I was here last Sunday.。
I had absolutely nothing to do last Sunday, so I was here, anonymous, just sat here.。
So many of you came up and welcomed me back, gave me hugs, and it was such a beautiful。
thing.。
It's so nice to know that I can come home, that I can be here with you guys again.。
But the thing that really, I think, fills my heart with joy is just to see how the church。
has flourished and grown in the four months that I have been away.。
The incredible job that our leadership team, our executive leadership team, our eldership,。
our pastors, volunteers, everybody who's involved in making not just Sundays, but all of church。
community happen.。
I came back last week, and it felt like this church has grown.。
And by that, I don't mean numerically, I mean, although it has actually grown numerically,。
I actually mean it's grown spiritually.。
That's our desire.。
Our vision is to grow big people.。
So I came back last Sunday, and it was like, this feels like people have matured.。
It feels like people have grown.。
So there's been this spiritual depth that's happened in the last four months.。
And it is such a privilege to be able to step away from a community like this when you're。
in a role of leadership here, and to be able to step back and know that the community is。
deeper and more mature, more on fire, is flourishing more now than it was when I left it four months。
ago.。
And again, that's credit to the amazing people that have walked with you over the last four。
months.。
Can we give everybody a round of applause, all the pastors and leaders?。
Honestly, it's amazing.。
It's amazing.。
I actually got a phone call about two weeks before I came back from a congregation member。
who will remain anonymous, bless them.。
But they were like, "You don't need to come back."。
That was quite freeing.。
I didn't need to come back.。
Wonderful.。
But I chose to come back because this is home, and I'm so grateful to be able to walk with。
you guys and to lead alongside of the other leaders and pastors here over the coming months。
and years ahead.。
My last message here at the Vine was actually on June 30th, and that was a day before I。
stepped on the sabbatical on July 1.。
And in that message, I brought a message to you guys about the prayer of Jabez.。
And I spoke about how the prayer of Jabez is often misunderstood.。
We've often interpreted it as a prayer of blessing, a prayer of expansion.。
But actually what it is at its very core is a prayer of a man who is desperate for God。
to change and transform and liberate him from some of the labels that have been placed upon。
him.。
We learned in that small passage about Jabez that his name literally means one who causes。
pain.。
His mother had had a painful childbirth, and so she calls him Jabez because it sounds like。
the Hebrew word for one who causes pain.。
And his whole life, he's lived under the influence and the pressure of a label that he was desperate。
to be free from.。
And he had always had this kind of thing upon him that I'm one who causes pain, I'm one。
who causes pain.。
And so actually his prayer right at the end of it, he prays to God and he says, "Would。
you no longer have me be someone who causes pain?"。
He cries out for the liberation of God to transform the broken label that he was carrying。
since literally his birth.。
And I shared on that Sunday that that resonated with me as I stepped into sabbatical.。
That I recognized that there were labels and things that I was carrying.。
I recognized that there was identity issues that I had taken on board a little bit too。
deeply and that there had been things that had happened over the years where people had。
said something or an email had been sent or a conversation had happened and words had。
hurt me.。
And I was carrying around labels and words that I was struggling to be free from.。
And I shared with you on that Sunday that I was looking forward to stepping into sabbatical。
and asking God to liberate me from some of the inner insecurities, inner self-doubts,。
the things that I was wrestling with deep inside about how I thought about myself, how。
I thought about being a pastor, how I thought about leading in my home, whatever it might。
be.。
I was carrying brokenness and I wanted God to set me free.。
The other thing that was right alongside of that as I stepped into sabbatical was the。
reality that in February I turned 50 years old and I was struggling with the reality。
that now I'm very, very old.。
You know, it's an interesting thing to turn 50 because it kind of feels like your whole。
life shifts and I realized that I'm a pastor who's leading a church where the average age。
of our whole church community is 29.。
29 and 50 is a long way away from each other.。
And although I feel 29 on the inside, I realize I don't look 29 anymore.。
And I was beginning to wrestle with self-doubt like am I past my use-by date, you know?。
Like can I be relevant anymore to this generation?。
And so I was taking on board some of those thoughts as I was stepping into my sabbatical.。
I was also wrestling with what am I going to be doing for the next 15, 20 years of my。
life and what is God's heart for the vine and all the things that are happening here.。
And I wanted God to speak in about my future and speak about the future of the vine.。
And so all of these things, the insecurities and self-doubt, the fact that I was pretty。
old and I was dealing with that, the fact that I was looking for some answers to some。
great questions about my future and your future and the future of this church.。
So on the first day of sabbatical, I took out my journal, which is my iPhone, and I。
wrote some questions in there that I was desperate over the four months for God to answer.。
Let me read you the actual questions I wrote down.。
How much longer do you want me to be a pastor?。
Because I recognize I serve as a pastor under the calling of God and he may not want me。
to be a pastor forever.。
So how much longer, Lord, do you want me to be a pastor?。
Connected to that, I was asking the question, how much longer should I lead the vine for?。
I've been leading here now 15 years.。
What a privilege it is to have done that.。
But how much longer am I going to be leading in this context, which led me to another honest。
question when and should I hand over the church to the next generation?。
But along came the feelings of excitement in that, but also what does that mean for。
my future?。
And so I asked this question, what the heck will I do for my living if you take the church。
away from me?。
I literally wrote that in my iPhone journal.。
And I was honest.。
And notice what I'm saying in that question.。
It's like, if you take this away from me, God, what am I going to do?。
How am I going to afford to live?。
These are honest, raw reflections I'm having.。
I was also asking this, why am I still so filled with insecurity and self-doubt?。
Why as a 50-year-old man am I still struggling with some of these realities in my life?。
And I think actually the most important question I had on my heart as I stepped into the sabbatical。
was this one, do aliens really exist?。
I needed...。
Just kidding.。
I didn't ask that question.。
Okay, let's wipe that one out.。
The other questions though were real, and that gives you a little snapshot of what was。
on my heart, what I was holding as I stepped into the sabbatical.。
And literally I was like, God, you need to speak to me in these areas.。
You need to give me revelation about me, my insecurities, about the future, about what。
I'm supposed to do, all of this stuff.。
And I'm really excited to come back after four months and announce to you today, and。
this actually is a big thing.。
I want to announce to you today that God didn't speak to me about any of those things whatsoever。
over four months.。
None of the things that I wanted him to speak to me about, did I get any answers or revelation?。
It's like just wipe them all away, clear it away.。
God was not interested.。
It's almost like God was like, I kind of gave him my laundry list.。
Have you ever done this?。
Only me.。
You give God a laundry list of all the things on your heart and he's like, "Oh, Andrew,。
Andrew, Andrew."。
And he just sort of went, "Yeah, we're just going to put those things to a side.。
Not that they're not important.。
Not that I don't hear that your heart is asking those questions.。
We're just going to put those things aside.。
Let me tell you what I am going to talk to you about over the next four months."。
And here's what God said.。
This is about two weeks into my sabbatical.。
He says, "Andrew, I'm only going to speak to you about three things.。
Your relationship with me, your relationship with yourself, and your relationship with。
your wife."。
He said, "Those are the three things that actually really matter over the next four。
months because you need a fresh relationship with me because it's gotten stale.。
You need to see yourself differently because you have to get free from some of the ways。
that you see yourself.。
And you need to fix your marriage."。
And I realized that I had gotten stale in my relationship with Christ.。
That it was easy to do a job about a relationship with him more than it was to actually have。
a deeper relationship with him.。
I realized that those insecurities were impacting me and I was beginning to think negatively。
about me as I stepped into my 50s.。
And I also realized that I had been very selfish towards my marriage and my wife.。
I had been selfish in terms of looking after myself and not necessarily taking my wife's。
needs as seriously as I should.。
And I realized that I had done the classic pastoral cliche and I'd served ministry more。
than her.。
And so God just wiped everything away and said, "These are the three things, us, you,。
Chris."。
And I felt like the freedom that came in God basically saying, "These are the only three。
things that matter.。
What you do doesn't really matter.。
How you do it, when you do it, what's going on for the vine, eh, the vine's awesome, Andrew,。
you don't even need to come back.。
What does matter is these three areas of your life.。
Everything else is foundational from there."。
And so although I wanted to come back to you with some great revelation here this morning,。
I actually come back to you with a great relationship.。
As cheesy as this will sound, but I don't apologize for it, I just really, really love。
Jesus again.。
Like I think the most wonderful thing is to stand before you this morning and say, "I。
really love Jesus again."。
Now it doesn't mean I didn't love him before, but I love him in a way that I feel like I've。
never loved him before.。
I feel like there's a revelation for me, a new journey in my community with the Father,。
the Son, and the Holy Spirit, and I come back to you basically very chilled out.。
I'm like Superman of peace.。
You can say anything to me and I'll be like, "I love you."。
Because I love Jesus.。
And I love Jesus because I spent a huge amount of time with him.。
One of the things I did on my sabbatical over the four months was this thing called the。
Camino de Santiago.。
If you've not heard of this before, it is a Catholic pilgrimage walk that is 800 kilometers。
long.。
And you start in a place in France called Saint Jean-Pied-de-Port, and you walk all。
the way to a place on the west coast of Spain called Santiago de Compostela.。
And in that, it takes about 34 days.。
You walk around about on average 25 kilometers a day with a big backpack.。
You carry everything with you.。
I did almost just under a million steps over the time of going from France all the way。
to the west coast of Spain.。
You're walking mostly in rural areas, and so you have a lot of time on your own to yourself.。
Now I am an extrovert with a capital E, so I was worried about what it was going to be。
like to be on my own for so long walking in a foreign land that I did not speak the language。
or know people.。
And you can walk for hours without seeing anyone, but I absolutely fell in love with。
Jesus again as I spent time with him.。
This particular walk was actually first walked in 812, not 1812, 812 in the ninth century。
when apostles of Saint James, the actual James of the New Testament, when his followers decided。
to carry what was believed to be his bones from France to the west coast of Spain.。
And the path that they took in 812, they walked it.。
Pilgrims have been walking that same path ever since.。
And it's always had been a dream for me to actually do that walk and experience it.。
And you can kind of see in the photos here behind me some of the snapshots of it.。
You're walking in this beautiful place.。
You're visiting all these incredible churches.。
There's different churches every day when you're walking that will host you, that will。
pray with you, beautiful Catholic nuns and priests that come around you.。
It is one of the most wonderful things.。
The cross that you see here that I'm standing next to, that cross was built in 1072.。
And pilgrims have been walking and laying down a stone at that cross since 1072.。
So I took a stone from Hong Kong, one of the beaches here, and carried it and laid it down。
there.。
Just amazing experiences.。
But the most time I'm spending with Jesus, I'm spending upwards of about five to six。
hours a day as I'm walking in and out of prayer and connecting with the Holy Spirit.。
And I don't know about you, but when it comes to actual people, it's kind of an interesting。
thing.。
Sometimes the more time I spend with people, the amount I like them less.。
Has anyone ever been in that situation?。
Or is it just me?。
Am I the only bad person in this room?。
But you spend more time with people and then you actually discover they've got flaws that。
you didn't think they had, right?。
Or they reflect your flaws back to you and you realize you've got flaws.。
Or you had put them up on a pedestal and thought they were a certain type of person and you。
spend time with them and you realize that's really not who they are and you get disappointed.。
Sometimes we spend more time with people and we like them less.。
That does not happen with Jesus.。
The more time you spend with Jesus, you will always fall in love with him more.。
That's the beautiful thing.。
You get to see his grace and his heart and his love and his mercy, and it becomes more。
real to you as you spend that time with him.。
You don't like him less.。
You love him more and I come back to you again without great revelation.。
I come back to you with a great relationship.。
I just love Jesus.。
Now, I know probably what many of you are actually thinking in this moment.。
"Oh, well, that's well and good for you, Andrew.。
You had sabbatical.。
You got four months off."。
I tell you what, Andrew.。
If I took four months off and you put me in Spain and you put a backpack on my back and。
I had great food and great wine every day, I'd love Jesus more too.。
I know what you're thinking.。
I know what you're thinking.。
And you know what?。
It's true.。
But the reality is, for many of you, you're not going to be able to get four months off。
work.。
You're going to be stuck in your career your whole life and you've never had that much。
time off.。
And I totally get it.。
So here's actually the question that I come back with.。
How do we deepen our love for Jesus in our normal life?。
Right?。
Like in the normal busyness and stress and all the responsibilities we have.。
Surely that's where we need to be thinking.。
How do I deepen my love for Jesus?。
It's great, Andrew.。
You had four months.。
You did that.。
But that's not hitting me relevant this morning.。
I need to understand how in my life, in my work, in my career, in my family, how do I。
deepen?。
How do I take a step of becoming more like Him?。
That's the great discipleship question we should always be wrestling with.。
And what I want to do with you today, but also over a number of one-off messages in。
2025, I want to actually share some answers or share some tools for you by which I think。
you can do this so that I hope you do get a sabbatical at some point in your life and。
you can do some crazy thing with that and fall in love with Jesus.。
But I don't want you to have to rely on that.。
I don't want to have to rely on that.。
I need to be able to do this on a day-by-day basis.。
That makes sense?。
So what I want to do this morning is just share the first of those things with you.。
It's perhaps the thing that I feel like God did most in me whilst I was walking on the。
Camino.。
And it's something that I honestly believe if you can just make this one simple shift。
in how you think about God that I'm going to unpack for you today.。
If you can just make a simple shift in that, I believe even this week you can refreshen。
your relationship with Jesus.。
And to help you to understand that, let me tell you a story that happened to me whilst。
I was on the Camino.。
So the Camino, most of the time, the 800 kilometers, you're walking in rural Spain, beautiful rural。
Spain, visiting small villages throughout the time.。
It's a wonderful place for solitude and rest.。
But throughout the walk, you come up to major cities as you go, and you have to walk through,。
stay and walk through those major cities, like Pomplona, which is where the Chasing。
of the Bulls is, a city called Legrono, Burgos, but in particular, a city called Leon.。
Now Leon happens about 500 kilometers into the walk.。
So I'd been walking by about three weeks by then, and I come to this city of Leon.。
Leon is 200,000 people.。
It's a big city.。
And just before I got to Leon, the previous almost week and a half, I'd been walking in。
the most rural part of Spain that we were going to walk in throughout the whole trip.。
And so I'd walked on my own.。
I'd been in this place of great fellowship with the Holy Spirit.。
And then I come into Leon, and the contrast between this rural, solitary life I was living,。
and then this crazy big city of 200,000 people, hustle and bustle of Leon, was actually quite。
a lot.。
It was very overwhelming.。
And I remember getting there, and there's some advantages of ending up in a city when。
you're doing a walk like that.。
You can refresh your toothpaste and do some things like this.。
I actually stayed in a slightly nicer accommodation, and I had a bath.。
Praise the Lord Jesus.。
But I also was struggling with this contrast and kind of going, "Okay, I need to get out。
of here as quickly as possible.。
I want to get back into the place of solitude and the rural Spain."。
So I decided the next morning, I'm going to wake up a little bit earlier than I normally。
do, and I'm going to start walking a little bit earlier than normal, just because I wanted。
to get out and get into it.。
So I woke up around six or so, started walking around seven.。
Normally we would start walking around eight.。
And I started walking out of urban Leon.。
Now I was walking down a normal, busy kind of Leon street, a lot of people commuting。
to work at that time.。
And I'm walking there, and I suddenly hear this man shouting.。
He's on an electric scooter.。
You know those little scooter things, not like a big bike, but just the little thing,。
right?。
He's on this electric scooter, and he's shouting.。
And it sounded to me like, "Leather!。
Leather!"。
Which I thought was Spanish for "get out of my way."。
So I kind of moved out of the way, but he scoots right up to me, and then I suddenly。
could hear him properly.。
He's like, "Pastor!。
Pastor!。
Pastor Andrew!"。
And I'm like, "I can never escape!"。
No, it's good.。
No, it's good.。
He's like, "Pastor Andrew, is it really you?"。
And I'm like, "Yes, it's really me!。
Who are you?"。
It turns out this guy's name is Emmanuel.。
And Emmanuel was from West Africa.。
And Emmanuel was one of our asylum seekers here at the Vine back in 2018.。
Now here's the crazy story.。
He was a part of the Vine for four years.。
Him and his family were here.。
There were asylum seekers seeking for asylum.。
They were finally, in 2018, given asylum.。
And we as a church community helped him and his family move to Spain to kind of start。
their new life.。
And they decided to settle in this city called Leon.。
And then fast forward until 2024, he's on his little scooter heading to work in the。
morning.。
And he's kind of scooting along this road that he scoots on every day.。
And he looks and he's like, "Pastor Andrew?"。
And I'm just like walking, thinking I'm completely anonymous in the middle of some crazy place。
in Spain.。
And he comes up to me and he's like, "I can't believe it's you."。
And I'm like, "I can't believe it's you."。
And we chat and we had a great time of praying together.。
And he was on his way to work.。
He was a bit late, so he had to keep going.。
But I thought afterwards, how crazy is this?。
Like if I had left 30 seconds earlier or 30 seconds later from my hostel, if he hadn't。
been running late for work that day, we would have never have seen each other.。
But God somehow took all of this crazy stuff and made this crazy kind of encounter, this。
random encounter, so that we would bump into each other, so that God would remind him that。
we're still praying for them and we're still working with refugees.。
And he loved to hear about that.。
And then to remind me that I'm not on my own, that God is with me.。
I remember walking out of that experience just praising God and saying, "God, it's so。
awesome to know I'm not alone.。
It's so awesome to know that you are with me.。
What a cool moment that could only have been orchestrated by you."。
And God, in the way that only he can, came back and said, "Andrew, Andrew, Andrew."。
He said, "It's funny to me that that encounter you just experienced with Emmanuel is exactly。
how you expect to experience me."。
In other words, God began to speak to me about the ways in which actually I kind of think。
that my encounters with God are like they happen because of some crazy thing that happens.。
Everything comes together and then I encounter God.。
Like my encounter with God is not an everyday normal thing.。
It's actually requires a lot of work for it to happen for me to feel like God is with。
me.。
Because I was like, "Oh God, I know you're with me now because you've done that."。
And God's like, "You didn't realize I was with you before that crazy moment?。
Are you with me?"。
And maybe this resonates with some of you here this morning.。
And I know as your pastor over the last 15 years, I know that many of you have these。
kinds of questions on your heart.。
Why is it that other people seem to experience the presence of God more than I do?。
Why is it that despite the fact that I'm trying so hard and I'm reading my Bible and I'm praying,。
I just don't feel him?。
Why is it that when I come to the vine on a Sunday and I look around the room and everybody。
else seems to be worshiping in the spirit of God, I feel so distant to him?。
I know that many of you struggle with that feeling.。
And I want to be honest with you, I struggle with that too.。
And so here I am and I feel like God is challenging me and he's saying, "Andrew, there is something。
going on in your thinking and in your theology that makes you think that it's a lot of hard。
work to encounter my presence."。
And again, I wonder whether that resonates with any of you here.。
Let me ask you this, does it feel like for you that God is more a random encounter than。
a constant presence?。
I want you to think about that.。
I want you to reflect on that for a moment.。
If you're honest with yourself, does it feel like for you that God is more a random encounter。
like that meeting with Emmanuel and Leon than actually a constant presence at all times?。
I certainly felt that way and I certainly struggle with that.。
But here's what I know, I know that God is not some random encounter, that God is here。
in his presence, in his fullness at all times.。
The wonderful thing about what it is to be in a relationship with God is that he is all。
around us and yet so often as Christians, I think we kind of sort of live and act and。
speak and do in ways that would communicate anything but that.。
That actually if you think about some of the language that we use, even in church, or the。
language sometimes that we use in our own private lives, it seems to communicate that。
we think God is somewhere else all the time.。
That oh man, I just hope that I get an encounter with God at the vine today, which really is。
saying like I need some special moment for me to feel like God is present.。
We use language, I use this language oftentimes even in my leadership here, we use language。
like this, "Lord today, as we gather together, we invite your spirit to be here."。
Have you ever heard that in church?。
Have you ever stopped to think about how bad a theology that is?。
Because when we are constantly in this thinking and using language like I want to invite you,。
what we're really saying is you're not here unless I say some sort of prayer or do something.。
So Lord, I invite your spirit to come to us or even in private moments, our prayer life。
so often is Lord, I invite you to meet me in this really difficult moment that I'm having。
here and I feel like of course the heart of that is right, but I feel like God is saying。
if your language and if your practice so often communicates that, you're actually kind of。
really betraying the reality that is true for everyone.。
Think about this, the language of invitation communicates first of all that the person。
that you want there isn't currently there, which is why we have these great invites for。
you for the time that is ahead, right?。
For Christmas Sunday, because we want you to actually invite some people who are not。
currently attending the vine to come on Christmas Day, are you with me?。
So when we say to the Lord, we invite you, Holy Spirit, we're kind of communicating something。
similar.。
You're not currently presently here, but I want you to be here.。
So I invite you to be here.。
Here's the second thing I think it communicates.。
It kind of communicates that God's presence is our determination and not his.。
Are you with me?。
It kind of communicates to God like your presence is down to whether I invite you or not, to。
whether I ask for it or not, that it's kind of in my hands, whether you're going to show。
up in this moment or not.。
And we have this horrible thought that actually I'm kind of responsible for the presence of。
God.。
And I tell you what, that is totally the other way around.。
You are not responsible for the presence of God.。
God is responsible for his own presence.。
It's really funny because Elijah, when he's standing on the mountain with the prophets。
of Baal and he's trying to get the prophets of Baal to do what he's been doing with God。
and bringing fire down, he actually taunts the prophets of Baal with this exact thing。
that I think we so often do even in church community.。
Let me read this to you in 1 Kings 18 verse 27.。
It says, "At noon, Elijah began to taunt them.。
'Shout louder,' he said.。
'Surely he is God.。
Perhaps he's just in deep thought, or maybe he's busy or traveling.。
Maybe he's sleeping and must be awakened.'"。
I love this.。
This is Elijah getting super sarcastic on these people.。
But I hear Elijah and I hear that being kind of said to me, kind of said to so often us。
as Christians.。
Like, if I only shout louder, if I only say exactly the right prayer, then I can expect。
God to show up and God standing to the side of that and saying, "I'm already here."。
Come on, church.。
Here's the third thing I think this whole language or kind of idea of invitation communicates。
is this.。
There are some places that are sacred and special and some places that are not.。
And that my job as a Christian is to show up tomorrow morning in the ungodly place of。
my work and bring the presence of God to my work.。
Has anyone ever felt like that?。
And we bring this on ourselves.。
It's like, "I got to go to the office tomorrow and somehow because it's evil, because it's。
broken, because it's filled with really nasty people, I need to somehow bring the presence。
of God with me into that place."。
And God's saying, "I was there long before you came.。
I will be there long before you leave."。
And maybe one of the ways that we can refresh our relationship with Jesus in our normal。
lives is just simply shifting how we think about His presence.。
Maybe it's less about, "I need some encounter randomly.。
And if God, you're awake and you're not traveling and you're present and you can do this, I。
would love to meet with you today."。
And maybe instead it's flipping it and saying, "God, you are always here.。
Your presence is always with me.。
And so I want to awaken to you."。
It's interesting.。
If you study the idea of inviting God in the New Testament, in all the occurrences where。
inviting God is found in the New Testament, it's only ever in two actual contexts.。
First context is the inviting of the Lord to come in at the moment of salvation, inviting。
the Holy Spirit to come and forgive our sin and forgive our brokenness.。
And that's absolutely essential and important.。
And the New Testament celebrates the idea of inviting God to be with us as we first。
give our lives to Him and repent of our sin.。
The second context, the only other context the idea of inviting God is found in, is this。
idea that we're going to be looking at in Advent, "Maranatha, come Lord Jesus."。
They didn't pray that in their church moments, "Come Lord Jesus to this moment right here."。
They were praying that, "Lord, would you come back at the end of all things?。
Would you come back and change the world and make everything just as you have desired it。
to be?。
We long for your second coming, Lord Jesus.。
Would you come?"。
The invitation was for Christ to come back and finish all of the work that He had been。
longing to do.。
Those are the two contexts, salvation and the second coming of Christ.。
And yet so often we still hold this weird theology that we need to invite God all the。
time when actually God is fully and beautifully present.。
In fact, the New Testament teaches us the opposite of this.。
It tells you that once you have invited the Holy Spirit into your life at that moment。
of salvation, the fullness of the Spirit of God, the fullness of the person of Christ。
comes and dwells in you.。
It doesn't say a half measure that needs to every once in a while be invited to be。
topped up.。
It doesn't say, "Hey, you're going to get a portion, but if you're a good person, you。
might get a little bit more."。
The fullness of Christ comes and dwells inside us.。
Some of you need to hear this right now.。
Actually, as I'm preaching this, I'm feeling this for some of you.。
Some of you, this is actually going to change, revolutionize how you see Christ.。
The fullness dwells in you right now if you're a believer in Jesus.。
The New Testament celebrates that reality with Scripture after Scripture.。
You're the temple of the Holy Spirit, but the same Spirit that raised Jesus from the。
dead now lives in you.。
So it's not a case of invites because I'm not sure.。
It's a case of it is all here and I get to now live in the wonder of the reality of the。
fullness of Christ in me.。
Here's the second thing the New Testament says when it comes to the presence of God.。
Not only is the fullness dwelling inside of us, but from the Old Testament to the New。
Testament, there's a celebration of the fullness of God's presence in the world at all times。
everywhere.。
This theological idea of the omnipresence of God, He is everywhere at all times, all。
around us.。
So I want you to see this church because this was so helpful for me as I was rebirthing。
a love of Jesus, I came to understand and realize that my hope for encountering Christ。
is not some random event that's going to happen and every once in a while it will make me。
feel like I'm with Jesus.。
No, here's the reality, whether I feel it or not, no matter where I am, no matter what。
I'm doing, the fullness of Christ is in me and the fullness of Christ is around me.。
That will revolutionize the way you think about Jesus.。
The fullness of Him inside of me, the fullness of Him around me all the time.。
And the invitation of scripture is not to kind of think that you've got to manufacture。
some encounter with God.。
The invitation of scripture is to actually realize that He is present in His fullness。
and you as a believer get the great joy of encountering Him always, every day, every。
moment in all things, walking in the presence of God.。
So I want you to hear this because this is really important.。
When it comes to the presence of God in your life, the issue is not inviting something。
that isn't there.。
The issue is becoming more aware of what already is.。
Come on church, are you with me?。
The issue is not inviting something that isn't there as if our thinking is that God is distant,。
we need Him to be close.。
No, the idea is actually becoming more and more aware of what is already within me and。
what is already around me, the omnipresence of God in this world.。
I want to come into a deeper revelation of the reality of His presence in my life and。
as I do that I can then live in the glory of that presence all the time.。
And when moments like happened in the Camino when I met with Emmanuel, that's a celebration。
of a reality that is every day for me.。
That of course that would happen because God is at work in this world.。
Not, "Oh my God, God you're with me because that amazing thing happened."。
Instead, that amazing thing should happen all the time because God is in control and。
I'm a believer, He is with me and in me.。
Of course I bump into Emmanuel in Leon.。
Are you with me?。
So we need to shift some things in the way that we think about the presence of God.。
Here's a couple of shifts that I think needs to happen.。
We need to stop thinking that as Christians we are the ones who deliver the presence of。
God and we need to begin to think that we're the ones that discover His presence.。
We're the ones who get the great opportunity to see what He's doing in our workplaces.。
When you wake up tomorrow and go back into your workplace, shift the way you think as。
you step in the door tomorrow.。
Don't go, "Oh, it's so good that I'm a Christian here because if I wasn't here this place would。
be dead."。
Instead, why don't you think of it like this, I'm today having the great opportunity to。
connect with what the Spirit of God is doing in my business, with what the Spirit of God。
is doing in this place, in this work environment.。
I get to join Him in the work that He's already doing.。
What a joy of an invitation that is.。
See, it's not us who invites God, it's God who's invited us.。
Our job is not an invitation, our job is a subjugation.。
What I mean by that is it's not come Holy Spirit because I don't have you, it's you。
are here in me and around the world, but so often I am distracted from you and my great。
joy in obedience is to say, "I am present.。
I am here with your Spirit now."。
Let me offer you as I close three very practical things you can do this week to freshen your。
relationship with Jesus in this area of the presence of God for you.。
Here's the first one, embrace thankfulness.。
I tell you what, there is nothing in this world that will bring you into the presence。
of God more than just the idea of thankfulness.。
Psalm 100 verse 4 says, "We enter His gates with thanksgiving on our hearts."。
Thanksgiving enables you to realize that the world is the way it is because God is in control.。
When you thank Him, you are subverting pride in your life.。
When you thank Him, you're subverting entitlement.。
When you thank Him, you're not making yourself the center of everything and everything revolving。
around you, but instead actually He's the center of everything and you're revolving。
around Him.。
When you get an active, conscious, thankful reality of the presence of God in your life,。
you will see Him like you've never seen Him before.。
I tell you what, there's this beautiful moment in the Beatitudes where it says, "Those who。
have a pure heart, they will see God."。
One of the ways that you purify your heart is through the act of thanksgiving.。
I'm thankful for everything right now.。
This is crazy.。
If you ask my wife, she'll tell you this has gone nuts.。
She's like getting tired of it already.。
Fair enough.。
But I'm thankful for everything.。
I get cut off as I'm driving.。
I just thank the Lord for that moment, you know?。
I get served cold pizza.。
I'm just thankful that I have pizza in my life, you know what I mean?。
Like everything.。
And I'm consciously doing it because I want to ensure that I recognize that God is at。
work in all things.。
Is that helpful?。
So embrace thanksgiving.。
Here's the thing.。
Watch your language.。
Just be careful.。
Keep an eye on your language.。
Because I think our language creates culture and culture kind of comes out in habit in。
what we do.。
And sometimes our language is still this invite, which kind of communicates He's distant.。
I wonder if we can flip that and kind of say, "Lord, I enter into you."。
It's actually the shift of going from a passive relationship with Him.。
"Lord, you just come and do this stuff for me."。
To an active relationship with Him.。
"Lord, I want to come and follow you."。
Pastor Ellison spoke about this beautifully last week.。
Denying ourselves, picking up our cross, following Him.。
That's an active work of meeting the presence of God in our lives.。
But so often our language communicates passiveness.。
Are you with me?。
It communicates this idea that everything needs to happen for us.。
In fact, He's in us and around us and we get to serve Him.。
Here's the third thing.。
Guard your awareness of the presence of God in your life.。
Because we all get distracted.。
We all have habits that distract us.。
There's always things at work and at play that will hold us back from fully realizing。
the fullness of Him in us and the fullness of Him in the world at all times.。
And so do a work in you to guard some of that distraction.。
Here's an exercise you can do this week.。
You can do it tonight.。
You could do it tomorrow.。
A simple exercise here.。
Take your journal, i.e. your phone or your journal.。
What helps me pay attention to God?。
Write a list down.。
How do I pay attention to God?。
What helps me to connect in with the presence of God in my life?。
And then the second question, what hinders me from paying attention to Him?。
If you're part of one of our small group communities here, I want to encourage you.。
Do that work individually.。
And then when you meet as your community group this week, bring your answers and share them。
together and pray for one another.。
Because if we can open our eyes to the presence of God and if we can work hard to minimize。
the distractions and things that hinder that, you will fall more in love with Jesus.。
It's guaranteed.。
Because you will spend more time with Him because you will see Him at work in ways you。
never thought possible.。
Someone once described a Camino as an 800 kilometer cathedral.。
And that's how I felt as I was walking it.。
I felt I was so thankful for every step, even though there were a lot of steps.。
And even though it was physically a really difficult thing, I was so grateful because。
every moment was a moment to walk into the presence of God.。
Every moment was a celebration of Him in nature and the beauty of the world around me.。
And it was so good.。
And I had this beautiful mix of visiting churches and praying in churches and visiting the。
wilderness and praying there and finding God in both just as powerfully.。
And as I came back to Hong Kong, one of my questions was, what's going to happen when。
I get back here?。
I walked through Causeway Bay on my first day back and I was like, this is a cathedral。
too.。
It's a very different cathedral.。
But God is at presence and at work here in Hong Kong as much as He is in rural Spain.。
You don't need the Camino to freshen your relationship with Jesus.。
You just need to open your eyes to the wonder of what is inside of you and the wonder that。
is all around you.。
C.S. Lewis, the great 20th century British theologian, he wrote it this way.。
Let me say this.。
We may ignore, but we can nowhere evade the presence of God.。
The world is crowded with Him.。
He walks everywhere incognito.。
And the incognito is not always hard to penetrate.。
The real labor is to remember to attend.。
In fact, to come awake.。
Still more, to remain awake.。
That's my prayer as I come back to you as your pastor, is Lord, would you help me to。
remain awake to your presence in me and your presence all around me at all times.。
That's my prayer for you as I return.。
That you would fall more in love with Jesus because you realize that He is fully here,。
fully now.。
Amen?。
Can you stand?。
I'd love to pray for you.。
As we just close our eyes, I want you just to take a moment.。
I'm going to lead you in a time of reflection.。
And if this has been a helpful word for you, if this is something that you think can help。
to shift your relationship with Jesus and the ways in which you've been thinking, maybe。
you could just, as our eyes are closed, just open your hands before the Lord.。
Here at the Vine, we just do this as a symbol of just being receptive, of inviting the ministry。
of God.。
Notice I didn't say the presence of God, the ministry, inviting our, opening our hearts。
to what He might want to do and say in us in this moment.。
So Lord, we open our hands before you.。
And I want you just to take a moment, just to settle your heart.。
Take a moment just to find a place of peace.。
And in that place, I want you just to consciously now think about how the fullness of Christ。
is in you in this moment.。
If you're a believer in Jesus here, the fullness of Christ is in you.。
I want you to consciously feel and think that the fullness of His presence is around you.。
This is not something because you are in church.。
This is exactly the same when you get back to your apartment, when you get into work。
tomorrow, conversations you're going to have over lunch.。
His fullness in you and around you.。
And as you just take a moment to consciously be aware of that, I wonder whether you could。
just start to be thankful.。
Maybe just begin to be thankful for that mere reality.。
Thank Him for the fact that the same Spirit that raised Christ from the dead is still。
also in you.。
Thank Him that the fullness of Him is dwelt in you.。
Thank Him that you are a temple of the Holy Spirit.。
Then thank Him that He is at work in everything around you.。
Then ask Him to begin to open your eyes to see, to discover the beauty of His presence。
at all times.。
And I want to just pray as you do that.。
I'm going to stretch out my hands.。
Father, I pray for every person here, everybody watching online, everybody in the overflow.。
Lord, that you would release now, Father God, a freshness, a joy in every single person。
in their relationship with you.。
Lord, we recognize that there have been staleness, that there has been ritual and routine, that。
there has been us going through the motions at times.。
I sense for some of you, you're feeling very dry in your relationship with God.。
And I pray that what we've been talking about today is the starting point of a new season。
for you, a rethinking and a re-engagement with the beautiful reality of His presence。
in its fullness in your life.。
Father, would you move and have your way and your being.。
And Father, would you release joy over us.。
Lord, would we walk in the power of the reality of your presence.。
May we be constantly in awe of the fact that you chose to come to us.。
You invite us.。
So as the team begin to worship, just take some time to deeply worship yourself.。
Worship Him within you.。
Notice Him, thank Him, glorify Him.。
When you wake up tomorrow morning, remember this word and walk into your office tomorrow。
with the expectation that you will see what He is doing.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
