Waiting for something to happen that you're expecting to happen but that doesn't happen。
is really awkward, isn't it?。
You guys just feel really awkward?。
Trust me, I looked around the room, you guys were looking pretty awkward.。
None of you were like looking at me in the eyes.。
It's like, "Oh, no, no, no.。
What's Andrew doing?。
He's doing something weird.。
Don't look at him."。
Waiting for something to happen that we're expecting to happen but that doesn't happen。
is one of the strangest experiences for us as human beings.。
It's one of the hardest things for us to grapple with.。
I understand this deeply well because my daughter and I just this past week experienced this。
at the extreme level.。
We've just been in Queenstown on a family holiday in the last week.。
And about a month ago before we left, my daughter Mia, she goes, "When we get to Queenstown,。
dad, I want you and I to do the canyon swing."。
Now, on paper, the canyon swing sounded like a pretty easy thing.。
That sounds like not a big deal, the canyon swing.。
She then sent me videos of people doing this canyon swing.。
And I quickly realized that this is one of the New Zealand ways of trying to kill you.。
Like bungee jumping was invented in New Zealand, right?。
Canyon swing is like a bungee jumping experience but with a swing.。
Basically, what it is is you go up to this very high platform over this very deep canyon.。
You then get placed in a harness.。
You then get dropped off the platform.。
You have a 100-meter free fall drop into this canyon where you hope that the mechanism catches。
you at the bottom of that drop and then swings you out for miles out into this canyon.。
You do this huge swing.。
My daughter was like, "This would be the greatest bonding experience with my dad ever."。
I was like, "This is the worst thing I have heard, but I love my daughter more than I。
care for my sanity."。
So, we signed up for the canyon swing.。
We got up there that day.。
My mindset on the day was this, "Don't look at any videos.。
Don't look at anybody doing it.。
Ignorance is bliss.。
Just get up there and do it."。
And there was like 10 of us in the van that were all paid to do this canyon swing experience.。
My daughter was so sweaty.。
Her hands were sweaty.。
My heart rate was going crazy.。
We get up there, they put all the harnesses in us and stuff.。
And I recognize there's 10 other people in the queue to do this, but I recognize if I。
have to wait, are you with me?。
If I have to wait to be the 10th person to do this, I am not going to do this, right?。
Like the only way this is going to happen is that me and I go first.。
So, I was rude.。
In that 20 minutes, I was not a pastor.。
I just want you to know.。
I was just a normal person, okay?。
And a rude one at that.。
We pushed our way forward through everybody so that we would go first.。
They then said, "Okay, how do you want to be dropped?"。
Because New Zealand is not just enough to try to kill you.。
You get to decide how you're going to be killed.。
So they're like, "How do you want to be dropped?。
Here's a plethora of ways."。
And they showed us this screen with 15 different ways that you could choose to be dropped.。
My daughter's looking at the screen.。
I'm thinking, "Lord Jesus."。
She decides that the best way to get dropped is by the chainsaw.。
So the chainsaw works like this.。
You get into the harness thing.。
They then suspend you on a crane out so that you're hanging but not dropping over the valley.。
And then one of the people in the team takes a chainsaw and cuts the rope, and that's how。
you fall.。
So my daughter decides that the chainsaw is the best way to do the canyon swing.。
So sure enough, we sit in the harnesses.。
They take us on this little crane out so that we're dangling free over the thing, but we。
haven't dropped yet.。
This was the worst seconds of my life.。
Because you know it's going to happen, but you don't know when it's going to happen.。
You're waiting for something to happen that isn't happening, that you know should happen。
and could happen at any moment.。
And to make matters worse, they get this chainsaw and they go, "Ha ha ha ha ha ha," like this.。
And they do this like five or six times.。
And each time you're like, "Oh, God, it didn't happen.。
Oh, it didn't happen.。
Oh, it didn't happen.。
Ah!"。
Because one time they finally do it, and they cut through the rope with the chainsaw, and。
you hurtle into this canyon, 100-meter freefall drop.。
Oh my gosh, it was the worst experience of my life.。
But my daughter loved it.。
And the whole way down in the freefall, you can go to my Instagram, by the way, later。
and see the video of the whole thing.。
But the whole way down in the freefall, my daughter buried herself into my chest.。
And I thought, "Isn't that a beautiful picture of the father?。
Isn't that a beautiful picture of like, 'I'm Jesus and there's my daughter,' buried into。
my chest as we're plummeting down this canyon, waiting for something to happen that hasn't。
happened, but that we expected to happen?"。
It's one of the scariest, most awkward, hardest experiences that we have as human beings.。
I don't know if you've thought about this, but we don't like to wait.。
Amen?。
Like, we just don't.。
We don't like to wait.。
And it's because I think we've been conditioned in the world right now, in this high-tech,。
consumeristic, driven world, that waiting is a bad thing.。
That if something is of value, is something that is good, then you should receive it straight。
away.。
That in fact, the quicker it comes, the more value we generally place upon it.。
So when you make your Taobao order, you want it to come in a couple of days, not a week.。
And if it comes in a couple of days, what do you say?。
"Wow, Taobao's really good.。
It came in like two days.。
I couldn't believe it."。
When you order a coffee, you don't want to have to wait for your coffee.。
You want your coffee to come as quickly as possible.。
We think that when something happens quickly, then it's good.。
When it happens slowly, it's bad.。
I will prove this to you now by showing you the scariest experience that all of us have。
on a regular basis.。
It's this one.。
Yeah.。
That one is one of the scariest experiences any of us ever have now.。
It's when your phone is like doing the whole, you know, wheel of death spin thing, and the。
website's not loading, you know, the social media thing's not coming, whatever it is,。
and we get this, what do we want to do?。
We want an upgrade.。
"Give me a better phone, faster connection.。
I need 5G plus, plus, plus, because 5G no longer is good enough for me."。
When we are thrown into a place where that sort of thing takes place, we think something's。
broken.。
We think this isn't working.。
We need an upgrade.。
We need to change something because this thing right here is not working for me anymore.。
The old saying, "Good things come to those who wait," has been replaced with, "Good things。
come to those who are first in line."。
Those who push everybody out the way and go into the canyon first.。
Good things go to those who act quicker than anyone else.。
Intelligence used to be defined by how much you could retain in your memory.。
Now intelligence is primarily defined in our digital age by how quickly you can access。
information.。
We think waiting is weakness, which is a big challenge to us Christians.。
It's a big challenge because we have, in our Christianity, in our modern church, taken。
this worldview into our spirituality, into our faith, into the ways that we think about。
church, into even, I would say, our doctrine.。
Now we think that God needs to act and He has to act immediately.。
If God doesn't act immediately, then there's something wrong with God.。
Because if God was all loving and all kind and all merciful and He knew what I wanted。
and He knew my prayers and I prayed regularly every day, surely He should bless me.。
Surely He should pour out.。
Surely He should act.。
He should respond quickly.。
We think that God, if He was all loving, if He really was real, if He really was true,。
if He was as the Bible described Him to be, when He thinks, when He does, He acts quickly.。
He acts immediately.。
So when God doesn't seem to act immediately in our lives, we, as Christians, very quickly。
begin to question His character, question His nature, and sometimes, if it's prolonged。
over a long period of time, maybe even question His existence.。
Because surely if God's good, then I should receive quickly.。
I should receive in the time that I want, in the time frame that I've decided, "Oh,。
I've been praying, but He's not come through," which is really interesting.。
Because here's what happens next.。
Not only when Christians need to wait do we begin to blame God, because we have a wrong。
theology of Him, we also then begin to blame ourselves.。
Have you ever been in a situation in a church or in a small group where maybe the people。
around you know that you've been waiting a long time for something, and they're like,。
"Man, you've been waiting a long time.。
Have you checked your spirit?。
Have you checked your heart?。
There might be some unconfessed sin in your life because you're still waiting for that。
promise.。
You're still waiting for your healing.。
Did you pray properly?。
When was the last time you went to church?。
Have you been a good person?"。
Because if you were all those things, then surely you would receive straight away.。
Surely God would give immediately, because surely that's who God is.。
So when God doesn't give, we either blame God or we, funnily enough, blame each other。
or blame ourselves.。
Maybe the reason why God is not blessing me, not answering my prayer is because I haven't。
tithed recently.。
Or maybe it's because I haven't confessed my sin recently.。
And we come up with all these ideas because we have this thinking that if God is in it,。
it will happen straight away.。
I know I've wrestled with God this way in the waiting periods of my life.。
There have been many periods in my life where I've had to wait considerably on something。
from the Lord.。
You guys, if you've been a part of the Vine for a while, will know my infertility journey.。
My wife and I, for eight years, from a diagnosis of male infertility, so on my side, we then。
had to wait.。
We had to wait for tests and procedures.。
We had to wait for donor insemination.。
We then had to wait for an adoption process.。
The whole thing took about eight years.。
And trust me, that was a painful waiting process.。
And I'm honest with you that in that waiting process, I doubted God.。
I attacked His character.。
I thought He was angry or distant or just not nice.。
And then when I got through that, I began to attack myself, that obviously there was。
something wrong with me, that I had done something wrong or whatever, whatever it might be.。
It's fascinating, isn't it?。
So we take something that the world has defined, if it comes quickly, it's of higher value.。
And we've applied that to our faith, which has caused us to either blame God or blame。
ourselves.。
And God stands back from all of that and He's like, "Have you read the Bible?"。
Because pretty much every hero of faith in Scripture, guess what?。
Had a waiting time, a waiting period.。
And sure, there are those moments where God does the miraculous in the immediacy.。
Moses' staff in the water sees part.。
Jesus' feeding of the 5,000.。
You can go through Scripture, yes, and find these amazing moments where God acts immediately。
on the faith of some people.。
That happens, of course, but you'll find more stories where God in His sovereignty and in。
His grace and in His love says something, but it doesn't happen for a period of time.。
And I know in my own journey that I don't like to wait.。
How about you?。
Maybe for some of you in this room, maybe there's seasons of waiting that you're in。
right now.。
I think, for example, in our community of our asylum seekers and refugees, and I think。
of you.。
And I think for you, many of you have waited 10 plus years for the UNHCR to make a decision。
on your case or for the Hong Kong government to make a decision on your case, and you're。
still waiting.。
I think of our domestic helpers here in our community, many of whom have to wait long。
periods of time before they can return back to their families and visit their children,。
their husband, visit their family.。
I think of people in our community that are currently waiting on a diagnosis, waiting。
on a healing, waiting on a promise from God to come through.。
I think of those that are waiting on a spouse, have long held a desire to meet a life partner。
and are still waiting.。
I think of those that are waiting on an email, waiting on a job application or a new job,。
those that are waiting on someone to say sorry, those that are waiting to be able to say sorry.。
I think all of us in this room probably understand seasons of waiting, and most of us in this。
room would be currently in such a season.。
And it was interesting because as we were praying as a leadership for how we wanted。
to start 2026, normally I've been involved in this church for 30 years now almost, normally。
here at the Vine, we start the year with a super positive, super woohoo, super rah-rah。
kind of message and sermon series to start the year with much inspiration and hope.。
And as we were praying for 2026, we felt like the Lord was saying, "In this season of uncharted,。
so if you've been coming to the Vine, you'll know that over the last year, we've been speaking。
about the fact that we're in an uncharted season as a church, uncharted, this idea that。
we're like those early pioneers on the boats who kind of go out and they go beyond the。
charts like no one's ever sailed that far and they're literally paving new ground.。
And we felt like the Holy Spirit last year was saying that the Vine is in a season of。
being uncharted.。
Here's the reality, when you're in an uncharted season, which we believe still carries forward。
into 2026, there are going to be moments and seasons of waiting.。
There are going to be moments and seasons of waiting.。
So as we were praying for this year and how do we start this year, we felt like the Lord。
saying rather than starting on like a rah-rah inspiring 2026, it's going to be awesome.。
We felt like the Lord said, "You've got to start pastorally because there are a lot of。
people in the community who are waiting right now and the waiting is hard and the waiting。
is challenging and I want to meet them in the waiting.。
And so I want you to teach about what it is to wait on the Lord."。
So if you're here and you are not in a season of waiting, you can come back in five weeks'。
time.。
Don't do that.。
Whether you're in a season of waiting or not, obviously there's going to be great truths。
throughout these five weeks, but I have a sense in my heart that almost all of us are。
in a season where the picture we had this morning as we were praying was we're carrying。
bruised hearts a little.。
The waiting has been tough.。
The waiting has gone on for too long and it's hurt and there's some bruising in our hearts。
and we just felt like the Holy Spirit saying, "Open up Scripture over the next five weeks。
and teach around this idea of what it is to wait on the Lord."。
And I do believe that as we do this, it's going to be a prophetic time for you.。
This is what the fast is about.。
So the devotions that Carla spoke about, and a lot of you came after that announcement,。
so I'm just going to make it really quick again.。
We're doing January devotions.。
They're starting tomorrow.。
You need to join a WhatsApp group because they're audio devotions.。
You can scan the QR code in front of your chair later on to get that WhatsApp group。
and sign up.。
All the devotions are going to be on waiting.。
All these five weeks are going to be on this idea of waiting.。
And we're going to base it on a specific passage, Psalm 27.。
And the reason why we're basing it on Psalm 27 is because Psalm 27 takes us on a bit of。
a journey.。
And interestingly, it's a journey that psychologists have outlined as the journey emotionally that。
we often go on when it comes to waiting periods in our lives.。
In fact, there are four predominant emotional states that we find in seasons of waiting.。
The first is confusion.。
So this idea that kind of like we're in this place of confusion, that we don't understand,。
why is this happening to me?。
Why am I in this place?。
Why am I having to wait for an answer or wait for this, whatever it is?。
So there's the initial stage of confusion.。
Now usually after confusion, if confusion doesn't get the answers or we can't find the。
answers to why this is happening, which is often the case in a season of waiting, we。
then move into anxiety.。
Am I always going to feel like this?。
Is this the way it's always going to be?。
Am I ever going to get out of this?。
Am I ever going to get through this?。
Is there ever going to be change?。
We enter into this place of nervous anxiety, this anxiety within our spirit.。
Now there are healthy ways of dealing with anxiety, but there are unhealthy ways and。
often that's through suppression.。
What happens in seasons of waiting is if we have this confusion, which enters into anxiety。
and we don't deal with that anxiety in a good way, we suppress it, that will lead us into。
the next one, which is hopelessness.。
Hopelessness is sort of the idea of like, "Well, I guess this sort of stuff always happens。
to me.。
Well, I guess this will just be the way things are.。
I guess I'm just going to have to live with this."。
We fall into a place of hopeless thinking and hopelessness within our spirit, and when。
that's not dealt with, that leads to a place of self-pity.。
"Oh, this is me.。
This is who I am.。
Oh, I'm such a victim of a system or a victim of whatever."。
We begin to think of ourselves as a victim of something far greater or grander, and we。
slip into these four emotional states super easy.。
Now it is kind of a linear thing, but it's very sickly as well.。
Often when we get to that self-pity, we find ourselves confused again, which leads us back。
into anxiety, which leads us to hopelessness, and the whole thing goes on.。
And the question we should have is, "Is there another way of waiting?"。
Because that way is not working for me.。
And Psalm 27, which we're basing this series in over the next five weeks, I think offers。
us another path, another way.。
It's a psalm of great hope.。
There are actually over 200 scriptures in the Bible on the topic of waiting, 200 of。
them, which is an incredible amount.。
And within those 200, I did a survey of it in preparation for this series, and I looked。
at kind of what are those 200 are trying to talk about.。
And here's the thing, the Bible predominantly speaks about seasons of waiting as a gift.。
I don't know if you've thought about it that way before, but as a gift, that actually seasons。
of waiting are a blessing to us.。
Now I know if you're in a prolonged season of waiting right now, that's not going to。
jive particularly well with you.。
And it's not that the Bible doesn't address the confusion and the anxiety and the hopelessness.。
There's a lot of encouraging passages within scripture of those who are in a hard waiting。
season and God speaks encouragement.。
But the predominant teaching in scripture on waiting is the idea that it is a gift.。
That in seasons of waiting, you're forced to slow down.。
You're forced to reevaluate some things.。
You're forced to begin to think of God different to how you thought of Him before.。
But there are some fresh and new ways of encountering Him within that season.。
Seasons of waiting are a gift because in them we discover a part of the character of Jesus。
that perhaps we've not had to see before, or perhaps we've not embraced before.。
And seasons of waiting are also described in scripture as one of the primary ways that。
God disciples His people.。
I mean, think about it for a second.。
The seasons of waiting are often a stripping season, a removing from myself of my own self-reliance,。
a stripping away of the things that I rely on within myself so that I'm more open to。
trusting and relying on God.。
Seasons of waiting are a reminder to me that I am not God, that I don't have what He has。
and that I must rely on Him, throw myself upon Him, open my heart to Him.。
Seasons of waiting are a gift.。
And Psalm 27 opens up for us what this gift looks like.。
And I want to do something a little bit different this morning.。
I want to read through the Psalm to you.。
We normally put the scripture on the screen, but I'm actually going to read it to you without。
it on the screen.。
I want to invite you just to receive this Psalm afresh.。
For some of you, it might be the first time that you've ever heard this Psalm.。
For others, it's a familiar Psalm to you.。
Whatever it might be, can I invite you just to close your eyes and maybe just open your。
spirit, open your heart?。
And I want you to listen to David's beautiful words from Psalm 27.。
He says, "The Lord is my light and my salvation.。
Whom should I fear?。
The Lord is a stronghold to my life.。
Of whom should I be afraid?。
When evil people advance against me to devour my flesh, when my enemies and my foes attack。
me, they will stumble and fall.。
Though an army besiege me, my heart will not fear.。
Though even war break out against me, even then I will be confident.。
One thing I ask of the Lord, this is what I seek.。
That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the。
beauty of the Lord and to seek Him in His temple.。
For in the day of trouble, He will keep me safe in His dwelling.。
He will hide me in the shelter of His tabernacle and set me high upon a rock.。
And my head will be exalted above my enemies who surround me at His tabernacle.。
Will I sacrifice with shouts of joy?。
I will sing and make music to the Lord.。
So hear my voice when I call, O Lord.。
Be merciful to me and answer me.。
For my heart says of you, seek His face.。
Your face, Lord, I will seek.。
Do not hide your face from me.。
Do not turn your sermon away in anger.。
You have been my helper.。
Do not reject me or forsake me, O God, my Savior.。
Though my father and my mother forsake me, the Lord will receive me.。
So teach me your ways, O Lord.。
Lead me in a straight path because of my oppressors.。
Do not turn me over to the desires of my foes.。
For false witnesses rise up against me, breathing out violence.。
But I am still confident of this, that I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of。
the living.。
So wait for the Lord.。
Be strong and take heart and wait for the Lord.。
Father, I pray over the next five weeks that you would do something deep in this community.。
Father, I pray you would pastor your church.。
Lord, I pray that you would heal bruised hearts.。
I pray that as we open up this incredible psalm, you would speak deeply to each one。
of us.。
And we pray this in your name.。
Amen.。
The final part of the psalm, I mean, it is a brutal psalm of honesty.。
This is one of those psalms that you go to and go like, "It's okay to be expressing my。
heart to the Lord in pretty brutal ways," because David does say throughout the psalm.。
But right at the end, he says, "I'm confident of this.。
I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living."。
We'll preach on that in a few weeks' time.。
And then he says, "Wait for the Lord.。
Be strong and take heart and wait for him."。
The Hebrew word that David uses for wait here, which is used throughout the Old Testament,。
is a very important one because it's very different to how we think about waiting in。
our modern context.。
The Hebrew word is k'fa, and k'fa is this idea.。
It literally means this, to gather up or to bind together, to look and to see.。
So to take some things and bind them up together, to gather stuff together, to then look and。
to see.。
The word itself is a verb word.。
It's an action word, which is fascinating because this is the opposite to how we generally。
think about waiting in the modern context.。
You see, David's explaining that this is what it means to wait for the Lord.。
It means to bind together.。
It means to gather together, to look and to expect.。
In other words, that I have these threads in the waiting season of a promise from God,。
of a word that he may have spoken into my spirit, of a passage that meant something。
to me, of a conversation I had with a pastor or a friend in my community group.。
There are these things that are hope anchors for me.。
To wait on the Lord is to gather up those things and in them find an expectation and。
an excitement of leaning forward to see what the Lord is about to do.。
Which should blow your mind because in our modern context, when we think about waiting,。
we predominantly think about it as inactivity.。
Oh, I'm in a season of waiting.。
I'm just in a...。
How you doing?。
Pretty good.。
Yeah.。
I'm waiting.。
Same.。
Yeah.。
Okay, good.。
We'll just sit here and wait together.。
Are you with me?。
You don't look like you're waiting.。
You don't look like you're waiting.。
Yeah, yeah, yeah.。
There you go.。
Good man.。
Good man.。
You're not waiting anymore.。
Waiting in our context is inactivity.。
It's idleness.。
But waiting in the Hebrew thinking is not inactivity.。
It's not idleness.。
It is...。
Listen to this.。
It is active anticipation of change.。
Come on, church.。
Waiting is an active anticipation of change.。
It is not the reality of that change in the moment because then you're no longer waiting.。
It is not the reality that the prayer has come through, that things have happened and。
that God has acted.。
It is the active anticipation that a time is coming where God is going to act, where。
he will come through, when the promise will be delivered.。
That's what it means in the Bible to wait on the Lord.。
It is to hold...。
Let me put it this way.。
Waiting is a prophetic act.。
Come on, church.。
I don't know if you ever thought about waiting that way.。
Waiting is a prophetic act.。
It is a standing on the ramparts, looking out and believing that the promise is coming.。
Waiting in the Hebrew is not this kind of like, "Oh, gosh, whatever."。
Waiting is like this.。
Are you with me?。
If you can't see me, I'll stand up.。
But waiting is like this.。
There's this beautiful picture in the New Testament of what waiting is like.。
Jesus speaks about it in the parable of the prodigal son.。
You will probably know the parable well.。
There's a father, two sons, older son, younger son.。
Younger son asks for his inheritance, takes the money off and squanders it in wild living.。
And then after a long period of time, runs out of his money and decides to go back to。
his father.。
But the parable paints a picture of the father waiting for the return of the prodigal son.。
And it's almost as if...。
Now, there were no binoculars in those days, but just bear with me.。
It's almost as if he's got binoculars in his hand and he's looking out every day.。
And he's like, "Today may be the day."。
There's an active anticipation of change.。
That I believe the prodigal is going to return.。
I believe he's going to come home.。
I believe when he does so, my heart is going to be filled and I am looking for him.。
Which is why when Jesus describes that the young son, the prodigal, appears on the horizon。
a long way off, the father sees him, hitches up the hem of his robe and runs to him.。
That's what it means to wait.。
That's how the Bible describes it as a gift.。
An active anticipation of change, a prophetic act.。
That despite the anxiety and the confusion and the hopelessness and the self-pity that。
we all know is a part of the waiting process at times, I believe God will act.。
As David says, "I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living."。
Notice he does not say, "I will see the goodness of God when I'm out of this place.。
I will see the goodness of God when I die and go to heaven.。
I will see the goodness of God when heaven comes to earth."。
No, he says, "I will see the goodness of God right here, right in this moment."。
He doesn't say like right now, but he says, "In the land of the living, whilst I'm alive,。
God will bring his answer.。
God will bring the promise.。
The waiting time will be over.。
But whilst I'm still waiting, will I be idle?。
No.。
Will I be inactive?。
No.。
Will I walk in the opposite direction to hope?。
No.。
I will lean forward and believe that there is an active anticipation of change in my。
spirit.。
My waiting will be a prophetic act.。
And I don't know, maybe it will come tomorrow, maybe it will be a month, maybe it will be。
six months, maybe it will be a couple of years.。
Who knows?。
But if God has spoken, it will happen.。
If the word has come out from him, it will not return to him void, but will achieve every。
purpose and promise.。
And I wish it was today.。
But if it's not today, I will wake up tomorrow and I will lean forward and I will prophetically。
hope I will wait on the Lord.。
For those who wait on the Lord, Isaiah says, renew their strength.。
They rise up on wings like eagles.。
They soar.。
It is a wonderful thing.。
He will renew your strength.。
This is why, and I'm going to close with this.。
This is why David finishes Psalm 27 with these words.。
He says, "Be strong and take heart and wait for the Lord."。
He says, "Be strong and take heart."。
That phrase in the Hebrew is the same phrase that Moses uses over Joshua, "Be strong and。
courageous."。
That then Joshua uses over the commanders of his armies as they walk around Jericho,。
"Be strong and courageous."。
It's the same words that then David uses over Solomon when he hands over the reign of the。
kingdom to Solomon, "Be strong and courageous."。
It's the same words later on in the Old Testament when King Hezekiah stands with his armies。
and the leaders of his armies to defend Jerusalem from attack, "Be strong and courageous."。
The idea is not find the strength within yourself.。
The idea is to know that God is with you.。
He's in the waiting.。
He is present.。
And when David says to his people, "Wait for the Lord," he's saying, "Have an active anticipation。
of change.。
Prophetically believe that God is at work."。
And then he says, "Be strong and courageous."。
You can be strong and courageous when you have the idea that God is at work.。
"Take heart," he says, "for although the wait," he doesn't promise when the wait will finish.。
Notice for him personally, he's gone through a really hard time.。
It's amazing the things he says in the psalm.。
In fact, sorry guys, but can you throw that scripture up real quick where I kind of show。
all of the things in the psalm.。
I just want you to see this, "Evil men advance against my flesh, enemies and foes, armies。
besiege me, war breaks out, enemies surround me, my father and mother forsake me, false。
witnesses rise up against me."。
I mean, David's having a rough go at it.。
So when he says to his church, "Wait," or to his people, "Wait, be strong and take courage,"。
he's not saying it theoretically.。
He's saying it at a lived experience.。
He's like, "I need this too.。
My life's not great," he's saying.。
But I will be confident of this.。
I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living.。
So wait on the Lord.。
Amen?。
I would love to pray for you.。
Let's just bow our heads.。
And I want to do something this morning as we just bow our heads and receive from the。
Spirit.。
I want to pray for those who are in a season of waiting.。
And you know throughout today's message and as we think about these devotions and the。
series ahead, you're like, "Oh, this is for me."。
I want to specifically pray for those that need strength and courage this morning, for。
those that perhaps the waiting has been really hard.。
Maybe things haven't gone as planned.。
Things have been challenging for you.。
I believe that David finishes Psalm 27 on a pastoral note, and we want to start this。
series on that pastoral note.。
So I'd love to pray just communally here for any of you where this is like, "This is my。
season.。
It's been hard.。
I need some strength and courage."。
And if that's you, I want you just to stand and I'm going to pray.。
And we're going to have our eyes closed.。
This is not about who sees who, whatever.。
But you know that this is for you.。
You're like, "This is me.。
I know I'm aligned to this.。
I need this.。
I want to receive prayer.。
I need some strength and courage for the season of waiting that's in my life.。
Would you just stand with me?"。
And as you stand, I'm going to pray.。
And I'm just going to pray that the Holy Spirit, and this is for you in the overflow if you're。
watching online as well.。
We're just going to invite the Holy Spirit to come.。
Maybe if you're comfortable, you can just open up your hands.。
I want to pray for us.。
Father, for my brothers and sisters who are standing before you in this moment, Lord,。
we come at your mercy and your grace.。
Lord, there are bruised hearts in this room from seasons of waiting.。
Lord, there are bruised hearts in this room from seasons of waiting.。
Holy Spirit, would you come and just begin to minister?。
Would you begin to just touch and heal hearts that have been bruised?。
Lord, I don't know when, for those people who are standing, when their season of waiting。
is going to end.。
But I do know that they will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living.。
Lord, I want to pray for that prophetic anointing over everyone standing here in this moment.。
The prophetic anointing that says, "Yes, this is hard, but I want to, like the father in。
the parable of the prodigal son, I want to be looking and anticipating and hoping and。
believing.。
I don't want control or confusion or anxiety or hopelessness or self-pity to define my。
period of waiting.。
I want God to stir in me courage and a prophetic witness at this time, that even though the。
waiting might be hard, the waiting is not without fruit.。
It is not without the presence of the Lord, and it is not without the victory that comes。
by a God who is so graceful and good.。
So Lord, I pray for each person standing.。
Holy Spirit, I ask that you would fill them with a fresh sense of your presence in the。
midst of the waiting.。
For those that have felt alone, felt distant, for those that have felt like you have left。
them, Lord, would you draw near?。
You have been near, but would you make your presence known to them again?。
Lord, to those in this room who have been blaming themselves, and while it's always。
good to check our hearts and to keep a short account with the Lord, some of you in this。
room have been beating yourself up constantly during the waiting time.。
And the Lord would say, "Enough, I'm here."。
And you may not understand fully the reasons for or the length of the waiting period.。
But I feel like for some of you in this room, the Lord is saying to you in this moment,。
"It is not your fault.。
It is not your fault.。
Don't allow the enemy to place upon you a burden in this waiting season that the Lord。
has not placed upon you."。
So Lord, I want to break off and release the chains that the enemy may have placed over。
some people in this room in this season of waiting.。
And Lord, instead we pray for your love and grace and mercy and freedom to come for them.。
So as we stand in the grace of the Lord this morning and look forward to all that He's。
going to unveil to us in the coming weeks, let's continue to worship together as a community。
for His glory.。
And you of the star Who called them each by name。
Will surely keep Your promise to me That I will rise in Your vain tomorrow。
