Amen.。
Amen.。
Thank you, Ivan.。
Wow.。
So much incredible things happening today.。
So exciting.。
Now, when I was in seminary, one of the requirements was that I did an internship to graduate.。
And I was in a missions track, so I decided to seek opportunities in other countries.。
And so one of them that presented itself to me was that I could do my internship in India。
with a missions organization.。
Now the cool thing was that at the same time, one of my professors who had used to live。
in India, he was also running a class for a month all over India, learning from different。
NGOs and organizations and pastors about the work that they were doing, the challenges。
that they were facing, and so I was able to join that.。
So part of one of those classes was that we were in Calcutta and we were going to volunteer。
in the home of the dying with Mother Teresa.。
So actually she already had passed away, but you know what, she had established.。
And so I went through some training, you know, we got prepared, and then we stepped into。
the home of the dying.。
And I have to tell you, I was not ready for what we stepped into.。
So I stepped into the room and there was a floor, a big hall just filled with people。
laying on little mats and beds, you know, all throughout that hall.。
And it was groaning in pain, and everybody seemed to know what they were doing.。
There were some people who were massaging some of those who were in their last moments。
of their lives.。
There were some who were feeding people, some who were giving medication, some who seemed。
to be changing beds, but I didn't know what to do.。
So this was a long time ago, I don't remember exactly, but I felt like I just stood there。
for 15 minutes not knowing what to do.。
And so then finally I connected with one of the people, you know, laying on the mat, and。
somebody told me, "Oh, he likes a massage."。
So I started massaging him a bit, and then the only thing I knew how to do was I'm going。
to sing him a song.。
So I sang a song, you know, just to this man that I met for the first time, and just sang。
a song to him, and he seemed to enjoy that.。
And then one of the sisters came and they gave me some pills and some water, and I had。
to, you know, lift him up a bit, put the pills in his mouth and help him swallow the pills.。
Now as I went through that experience, I was wondering, you know, what brought all these。
people here?。
You know, what's their life story?。
How did they get here?。
How did they get to this point of being here in this room?。
You know, was there some injustice in society?。
Was there, you know, were they orphaned?。
Was all the family, they lost touch with family?。
You know, what happened?。
And I'm sure that everybody's story was different, that it was not the same story.。
But at the same time, I was also inspired because of what Mother Teresa had done.。
You know, that she saw a need, people dying in isolation, alone, in fear, being homeless.。
And so she created a home, and I love this name, a home for the dying.。
She gave them dignity, and she gave them love and care, and she mobilized resources, mobilized。
people, and they came and just brought care to people who were in need for care.。
But all this also makes me wonder, you know, how might God want to speak to us what he。
wants us to see, what he wants us to notice in Yuen Long, in Hong Kong?。
It makes me wonder how God wants to inspire us to be creative for how we care, love, serve。
the vulnerable, the marginalized, the hurting.。
And it also makes me wonder how might our Christian faith inspire us to lead lives of。
justice and mercy?。
You know, what's God's heart that he wants to instill in us so we can be people who can。
see and who can act and who can be creative and who can find solutions to bring care,。
healing, justice, mercy to those around us?。
So that's what I want to explore with you today.。
And in order to do that, we are going to look at the redemptive grand narrative of the Bible.。
Now, that's a mouthful, right?。
The redemptive grand narrative of the Bible.。
And I believe that when we look at that narrative, that we start to see God's heart for justice.。
We can start experiencing God speaking to us about the type of people he's calling us。
to be and the type of life that he wants us to live.。
Now the redemptive grand narrative of the Bible is a big, big word.。
So I want to actually explain a little bit what that means.。
Like what is that?。
Now, you know, the Bible is made up of 66 books, different types of literature, lots。
of different stories, some lists of names.。
There's all sorts of stuff going on.。
And at a first glance, it might not seem like it's all connected, but it is.。
And the way that it's connected is there is an underlying story that ties all these stories,。
all these narratives, all these different literature, ties them together.。
That's the redemptive grand narrative of Scripture.。
And so what I want to do with you today is, and this is part of Vine DNA, so I'm trying。
to pass on and instill in us something that is important to us as the Vine, is to look。
with you at this redemptive grand narrative of Scripture to understand and to see God's。
heart, but also God's call for us to be people who act justly, love mercy, and walk humbly。
with God.。
Does that sound good?。
Yes.。
I'm not that convinced.。
Does that sound good?。
Okay.。
Thank you.。
We get to cheer each other on.。
So let me take you to the beginning of the story.。
It's in the first book of the Bible.。
It is in the book of Genesis, the first two chapters.。
So we learn about that God creates the world, that everything in it that he creates is good。
or very good.。
Now the pinnacle or the crown of his creation are human beings.。
And so I want to read with you some key verses there.。
Genesis 1, verse 27 and 28.。
It says this.。
"So God created mankind in his own image.。
In the image of God he created them.。
Male and female he created them.。
God blessed them and said to them, 'Be fruitful and increase in number.。
Fill the earth, subdue it, rule over the fish and the sea and the birds and the sky and。
over every living creature that moves on the ground.'"。
So the biblical narrative highlights that humans carry this special place.。
They are made in the image of God.。
They are different from other animals, different from trees, they're different from rocks because。
they are made in the image of God.。
Now what does the image of God mean?。
Well, first of all, it means that God has given people dignity and worth, intrinsic。
worth.。
Every human being has intrinsic worth.。
God loves them and he has a purpose for them and that we should treat other human beings。
with that worth, with that dignity that God has bestowed upon each and every one of us。
regardless of our gender, our race, our cultural background, our socioeconomic status.。
We are made in the image of God.。
We are his image bearers.。
But then secondly, it also means that we're meant to reflect his character.。
We're meant to image him in the world and his character is full of justice and goodness。
and mercy and love and we're meant to reflect that in all our relationships.。
And so being an image bearer also means that we are representatives of God on this world,。
that he has entrusted us with ruling.。
Now ruling sometimes is understood as being oppressive and exploiting, but it means ruling。
in line with God's good purposes, with God's definitions of what is good and evil.。
And so when we do that, we actually get to shape and create new things and move them。
along and contribute to the flourishing, the thriving of creation.。
So we are future shapers.。
We get to take things further.。
You could think of it as if an artist starts painting a picture, let's say Michelangelo。
or El Greco or whoever you like, and then suddenly they call you and say, "Hey, Ivan,。
Pastor Ivan, can you complete this painting for me please?。
Can you come to my studio?"。
And what that means, if Ivan says yes to that, it means that now he has this already started。
painting and needs to carry it forward consistently with what the creator has done and he needs。
to move it forward.。
And that's the type of role that God has given us.。
We're representatives to move forward, but consistent with his ideas of good and evil。
to create and shape new things.。
And when we do that, we also image him as creator.。
And this is known as a cultural mandate in scripture that we find in the beginning of。
Genesis.。
And there's four particular areas where we're meant to do that.。
So let me look with you at the four relational contexts.。
First it's us with God, us with ourselves, us with others, and us with creation.。
So we're meant to contribute to flourishing in all these relational contexts and move。
them along.。
And the best way to describe that is with the word shalom, which is the Hebrew word。
for peace and means relational wholeness.。
So in all our relationships, they're meant to be whole and we're meant to carry them。
forward to bringing more wholeness, more goodness into these relationships, into this world.。
So I have an image for you that my wife created.。
It's created for good.。
Can we pull up the next image, please?。
Thank you.。
All right, right here.。
Okay.。
So we are created for good.。
And you see here's Adam and Eve, they're in the garden and everything is flourishing。
and thriving and their relationship with God, with themselves, with others, with creation,。
everything is working out wonderfully.。
So that's what God created us for.。
He created us for good.。
But if we're honest, that's not our experience of the world, is it?。
That everything, all relationships with us, others, creation, ourselves is good.。
And some of us might even be cynical as we're talking about this, like, "Hey, you know,。
you're talking about this idealistic stuff."。
But that's not my experience.。
You know, there's a lot of pain, there's breakdown in relationships.。
And we all know that because we ourselves have experienced broken relationships with。
other people.。
There's breakdown in relationship with God.。
We're taking advantage of creation.。
So there's a lot of brokenness.。
So we could say that our experience actually highlights that the world is broken and that。
it's damaged by evil.。
Yes, there is much good.。
There's much to enjoy.。
There's much to celebrate and praise God for that.。
But there's also things where there's just something wrong.。
And we can all sense it.。
And if we take time to think, we can feel the brokenness.。
We can see it.。
We just need to watch the news.。
But we can also just walk around through the city with open eyes and we can all see pain。
and brokenness all around us.。
And so what happened?。
What brought us from this place of flourishing and thriving to this place where there is。
breakdown in all these relationships?。
Well, continuing in the book of Genesis 3, we find our answer.。
So first, in Genesis 2.16, God commands Adam and Eve not to eat from the tree of the knowledge。
of good and evil.。
So it's like the one command he gives them.。
Actually, he gives them more, but this is one of the commands he gives them.。
And then they are tempted by Satan in the form of serpent.。
And Satan tempts them this way.。
Your eyes will be opened and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.。
So they want to be like God.。
They give in to temptation.。
They eat of the fruit of that tree they're not supposed to eat from.。
And there is a bunch of consequences to that, which we know as the fall.。
Now let me unpack that a little bit.。
So we can see that the first thing is when God confronts Adam about what happened is。
this is what Adam says in Genesis 3.12.。
The woman you put here with me, she gave me some of the fruit from the tree and I ate。
it.。
So Adam, the first thing he does, he blames God, the woman you put here.。
So he's blaming God, but he's also blaming the woman.。
So this is the first act of injustice that we find in scripture, where he's trying to。
self-preserve and so he blames his wife and he blames God.。
Now self-preservation is always at the heart of the work of injustice.。
And we seek our advantage at the expense of others.。
You know, that's when we're selfish.。
When we're a boss, we take advantage of our workers.。
You know, we preserve ourselves.。
We make the money, but we make other people, we take advantage of them and give them out。
what is due.。
When we do blaming, like we see here, so we do this in all sorts of ways.。
And so self-preservation is at the heart of injustice.。
And what you see is the relationship of all these breakdowns, of all these relationships.。
So can we pull up the slide of damage by evil?。
This way.。
All right.。
So the relationship, we already talked about Adam and Eve.。
He blames his wife.。
So now there's a rupture in the relationship between husband and wife.。
There's a breakdown in relationships.。
So sin breaks down relationship with us and others.。
There's a breakdown with relationships and themselves, because we're told that they suddenly。
realize they're naked and that they feel shame.。
So now suddenly they're carrying shame.。
So there's a breakdown in their relationship with themselves.。
There's a breakdown in their relationship with God.。
You know, God is looking for them and they're hiding.。
Well, you don't hide from someone if everything is okay.。
Well, they hide because they know what they did is wrong.。
So there's a breakdown between them, their relationship with God.。
And then also as a result of their sin, there's judgment.。
And there's also a breakdown between them and their relationship with creation.。
And so we, again, we can also experience all these different breakdowns where we, where。
it's brokenness within ourselves, there's brokenness in relationship with others.。
There's brokenness in relationship to creation instead of being stewards and representative。
of God who contribute to the flourishing of creation.。
You know, we exploit it, we destroy it, we consume more than we should.。
And you know, with this, with this creation part, actually what happens is that usually。
the most vulnerable and the weak, the marginalized, they're the ones who are suffering, not the。
ones who are causing the damage, you know, a lot of the pollution, a lot of exploitation.。
You know, because they're the ones who deal with extreme weather conditions.。
You know, they're the ones who are dealing with dirty water, don't have access to clean。
water.。
And so you see there's a breakdown in all these relationships.。
And so, so that is the state actually that we find ourselves in, even right now in our。
world.。
This is still part of our story, that there's brokenness in all these dimensions and relationships。
of our lives.。
But what does, you know, what does God do about this?。
And thank God the story doesn't stop there.。
God calls Abraham to form a new family, to form a new society, a new community.。
And he wants, he's going to bless Abraham and he's going to bless the descendants, you。
know, from, bless all nations from the descendants of Abraham.。
That's a promise that God gives.。
But he wants his people, this new family to be people who embody, who practice, who learn。
holiness, righteousness, justice.。
He wants them to restore them back to this shalom, to these original, you know, how God。
created us for.。
He wants his people to carry that and to image that to the world around them.。
Now we're basically now summarizing all of the Old Testament with three words, which。
is very challenging, but I'll give it a shot.。
So basically when you look at the Old Testament, there is three words that deal with justice。
and injustice and breakdown of relationships.。
And we're going to go through them one by one and they summarize what God is trying。
to do with us as people.。
And the first word is the Hebrew word for righteousness.。
This is a very hard to say, tz'taka.。
I'm probably saying it wrong.。
And we often think of righteousness, you know, as our own righteousness.。
Jesus made me righteous.。
I'm justified.。
And so I'm okay with God.。
I'm righteous.。
You know, I read the Bible, I pray and there are certain things I don't do.。
But biblically, the concept of righteousness is actually a lot broader because it involves。
other people.。
It involves righteousness in relationship to everything.。
So Tim Keller, who was a well-known pastor, he says this, tz'taka refers to day-to-day。
living in which a person conducts all relationships and family and society with fairness, generosity。
and equity.。
You know, that's the type of righteousness that God wants instilled in his people.。
That's the type of righteousness that God calls us to, that he wants his image-bearers。
to carry.。
And then there's a second concept, which is the word for justice, which is mishpah.。
And there's two, you can differentiate it in two different ways.。
There is retributive justice, which means that you, there's a judgment that sort of。
is meant to set right what was wrong.。
Let's say I steal an apple and then my punishment for stealing the apple when I'm caught is。
to, you know, replace the apple, maybe pay a little bit interest.。
So that's that type of adjustment.。
But actually scripture most of the time doesn't just talk about that type of justice.。
It talks about restorative justice, which is, goes far beyond, you know, just restoring,。
you know, what was taken or what was lost.。
And restorative justice is about being concerned about the vulnerable.。
It means advocating for them who are right now not experiencing justice and being generous。
towards them.。
So that's what it means to be a just person.。
Now, biblically, it's interesting.。
A lot of times when we think of advocating for the marginalized, for the poor, for those。
who are suffering and, you know, working for their good, even willing to disadvantage ourselves。
so that others can be brought up, a lot of times you see that as charity.。
But we actually, biblically, that's not an option.。
Because charity is something that's optional, but being a just person and being generous。
and working this way is who God actually wants us to be.。
So it's meant to be part of us as a person.。
And so that's the second concept.。
So we have tzedakah and we have mishpah.。
We have righteousness and we have peace.。
But then there's a third one.。
And the third one is rashab, which means wickedness.。
You find that a lot in the Psalms.。
It means to be guilty, to be in the wrong.。
And it describes somebody who mistreats others and disregards the image of God in them.。
And so as you read scripture, the Old Testament, these three words, they keep coming up.。
How God speaks to Israel, about what he wants them to do, about what he calls them from.。
And they're always standing close relationship to each other.。
And basically, these three words, they highlight God's desire for his people.。
You know, that he doesn't want them to be wicked, but he wants them to carry the righteousness。
and justice which reflect his character as they live out their lives.。
And there's a constant calling them back from rashab, from wickedness, to being righteous。
again.。
But let's, I don't know about you, when, you know, when I look at issues of injustice,。
sometimes it can be very overwhelming, right?。
So especially if you're like an NGO worker, you're working with that, sometimes it's just。
too much, you know, you feel that way.。
And one thing that I think is important is that we remain hope.。
And so we can see how God brings justice to people who are being treated unjustly in scripture.。
And the greatest example of that, or I should say the second greatest example of that, is。
the Exodus in the Bible, where God hears the cry of Israel who's being oppressed by Egypt。
and is enslaved to them, and they just keep tightening the screws more and more.。
And so we hear that God hears the cries.。
And so Exodus 7-8 says this, "The Lord said, 'I have indeed seen the misery of the people。
in Egypt.。
I've heard them crying out because of their slave drivers, and I'm concerned about their。
suffering.。
So I have come down to rescue them from the land of the Egyptians and to bring them up。
out of the land into a good and spacious land, a land flowing with milk and honey.'"。
So God has heard a cry, and he's going to do something about it.。
He doesn't just let it happen.。
And he calls Moses, who himself is a broken person, so God uses broken people nonetheless。
to bring about his justice.。
And he's sent to the Pharaoh, and he confronts Pharaoh and says, "Let my people go."。
And he doesn't, and he does it multiple times, and God demonstrates power through the plagues。
and then ultimately delivers Israel from slavery and starts bringing them to the promised land.。
And then along the way, Moses receives the Ten Commandments, where again it talks about。
the type of people that God wants his people to be, one that love God, that are holy, that。
are righteous, that are just.。
And so this theme continues.。
But here's a...。
All of this sounds great, right?。
That God rescues and redeems, but there's a problem, and it's an ongoing problem, because。
a lot of times what happens is when God rescues and redeems people that were oppressed, that。
at some point in time, many of them also become oppressors, where they practice Rashab, where。
there's wickedness.。
I said that the German way, where there's wickedness in their hearts, in their lives.。
And what God does throughout Scripture, you see this cycle of injustice.。
He confronts the wickedness of his people.。
And this is interesting, too.。
A lot of times we always think of others as being bad.。
We always give ourselves credit.。
We're the good guys, they're the bad guys.。
But actually, Scripture-wise, God confronts his people.。
It's Israel.。
And he confronts his church, Jesus' followers, when there's a lack of righteousness.。
He calls them from wickedness to righteousness, to repent and to restore and to renew them.。
But in the Old Testament, he sends his prophets to call them out.。
And it's always with the heart to move them from Rashab, from wickedness, to move them。
again to righteousness and justice.。
But the problem is there is a cycle of injustice, and it seems impossible to break.。
Now while God works to bring righteousness and justice, the deep-rooted power of sin。
drives us towards self-preservation and selfish actions that are always at the expense of。
others, particularly the vulnerable and the weak.。
You know, this is something that we just keep cycling through.。
We get stuck in our self-preservation.。
We sin against others.。
We put other people down for our own benefit.。
And we all, to one degree or another, we participate in that.。
So there's a tension in this narrative of Scripture that God calls us to be holy, righteous,。
and just, but that we are not able to do it, and that we cycle through.。
And so we're stuck in this.。
But God loves us so much that he doesn't leave us stuck in sin.。
He doesn't leave us stuck in our wickedness.。
He doesn't leave us stuck in our unrighteousness and in our injustices.。
And so he sends Jesus to come into the mess, into our brokenness, into this world, fully。
God, fully human, to enter into the heart of things.。
And this, in the redemptive grand narrative of Scripture, is really the central point。
of that story, that Jesus enters, and through his resurrection and death, he overcomes evil。
and sin, our very issue that we cannot shake.。
And he breaks us free from the power of it, so that we can become people who live different。
lives, who can start imaging him again more fully, who can be righteous, who can be just,。
who can live in this way, and not out of our own strength, but because of the Holy Spirit。
that God puts in his people, the laws that he writes on their hearts, so that they can。
live differently, and that they can bring others up.。
So Jesus offers his life now to the guilty and the wicked, which is all of us, because。
we all, in one way or another, have sinned against God, against other people who are。
made in his image, and through repentance and faith in Jesus, he restores us, he declares。
us as righteous, and he wants us to learn to live as righteous people, and he gives。
us the grace and the power to do so, and so we are restored for life.。
So let's look at that slide, restored for life.。
Here.。
And so the power of sin is broken.。
You know, our relationship with God is restored, and the power of sin over us, where we cannot。
help ourselves to live differently, you know, with ourselves, with others, creation is also。
broken so we can now live differently, because Jesus has won a decisive victory on the cross。
so we can be different type of people.。
And I want to walk with you through that.。
Now often, you know, when we think of the gospel, we just think of God restores relationship。
between us and ourselves.。
And so we get to be here and we get to enjoy this relationship, and it's all about, you。
know, now we're righteous, now we are in a relationship between us and God, you know,。
now this is restored, and it's all good, you know, I have my ticket to heaven, it's going。
to be amazing, praise Jesus, hallelujah.。
But that's not the full gospel.。
That's not the redemptive grand narrative scripture.。
It is much wider.。
The gospel is bigger, more beautiful, because it involves all these facets.。
Jesus died so that all of our lives can be restored, all of creation can be restored,。
that once again, shalom can break into this world and be established in all facets of。
life.。
So let's go to the next slide.。
So we see here, you know, our relationship with us and God's restored because God sent。
Jesus to reconcile us, you know, to himself.。
Our relationship with us and ourselves is restored because instead of having the broken。
identity of being slaves, we are now children of God, we are now part of his family.。
So he restores our identity, who he truly created us to be.。
Now our relationship with others is restored.。
You know, we're brought in the community of brothers and sisters, and we're meant to be。
people who are called to peace, who live in peace with each other, who are people who。
carry forth the peace, you know, of Christ.。
And you know, we're able to do that because we have been forgiven, we can forgive others.。
But it's not only just between us and others.。
You know, we've been given the ministry of reconciliation, that we can play that role。
to heal, restore, renew, reconnect other relationships in this creation.。
We can address systemic injustices and institutions where we can start reconciling these things,。
you know, back to God, to his purposes, that they're working in this way.。
And then also he, through Jesus' death, he also starts restoring our relationship with。
creation, that we can be the stewards that he has called us to do.。
And then one day he will set creation right again and make it whole.。
So Jesus died to redeem all four areas of the, you know, the racial context I've been。
looking at, you know, and that is the whole gospel.。
You know, that he will bring newness and wholeness to all of these parts of our lives.。
And that is good news worth believing.。
Now Jesus, he died a death on the cross that we were already dying to give us a life that。
we could not live on our own.。
And he calls the wicked and the guilty to become the righteousness and to live differently,。
to be people of justice, to do the works of Jesus in the world.。
So we come to him in repentance, we ask him for forgiveness, you know, in our breakdown。
relationship with him, with others, with ourselves, with creation, so that we can become the kind。
of good that we long to see in the world.。
As he gives us this righteousness, that we can start living that out, that we can start。
being the agent of that.。
And this is the final part of the redemptive narrative that I want to share with you.。
And that is that we together as a church, as a new community, as a people of God are。
sent to heal into this world.。
We're sent together to go out, not just to have enjoy our own relationship with God,。
but to go out into this world and to start being people who bring healing, who bring。
restoration, who bring wholeness in areas where there's brokenness, relying on God and。
his power and his grace and the spirits leading to restore, to renew, to heal.。
And we do that by the power of Jesus.。
We don't do that by our own strength.。
And he sends us out to do this together.。
And we do that under the leadership of Jesus and by the power of his spirit.。
Now it's interesting, the redemptive grant narrative, a lot of times we look at it as。
if we're standing outside of that story.。
But we're not.。
We're inside the story.。
You are inside a story.。
This is a story of this world.。
And we are, we can be passive inside the story, but we're actually meant to be active participants。
in the story to be part of the saving and healing work that God is unfolding, that he。
wants to unfold through us here in Yuen Long, in Hong Kong and beyond.。
Now as I was thinking of Mother Teresa, you know, at the beginning of a sermon, now I。
was just amazed, you know, how she made herself available to create the home for the dying.。
You know, she didn't just see herself as, "Oh, me and my relationship with God is fine.。
You know, I'm good.。
I'm righteous."。
But she believed the full gospel, you know, the whole gospel to live, to be just, because。
part of being a Christian means to be just person and to seek justice for other people.。
And so I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
And I just feel that God wants to speak to us.。
He wants to challenge us to see ourselves in that story, in this redemptive grand narrative。
of the Bible, where we can be people who bring healing, who bring restoration, who bring。
the gospel to those around us.。
I believe that God wants us to start seeing as we go around.。
He wants us to start seeing things like Mother Teresa saw there was people dying on their。
own.。
And He will speak to us about those things.。
And He will give us the grace, the wisdom, the strength to do something about those things,。
to come up with creative solutions.。
Remember as image bearers, we can be creative and to bring shalom, to bring healing, to。
bring restoration into all spheres of society.。
That's what He's inviting us to.。
I want to invite everyone to stand.。
God is inviting us to see ourselves in the story, the story of His redemption, to be。
good news people, but not just good news people for ourselves, but good news for all of those。
around us.。
And I just want to invite you right now just to prayerfully to respond to God.。
If you want to say, "I want to see, Lord, open my eyes.。
I want to participate in your work."。
I believe, Holy Spirit, that you will show us what to do, that you will help us to figure。
out together how we can contribute to your justice, to your mercy in our community, how。
we can do your work and see healing, see salvation of people happening.。
And I just want to encourage you to just say, "Jesus, I'm in.。
I want to be part of what you're doing."。
And if that's you, I just want to encourage you just as a sign of availability to stretch。
out your hands before you, to say, "Maybe you don't know what this looks like, but it's。
like, Holy Spirit, I'm just open."。
I want to encourage you to stretch out your hands before you, and I just would love to。
pray over us as a church.。
Jesus, I thank you so much that you invite us to be partakers of your redemptive story,。
that you have a purpose for us here in Yuen Long, to bring healing, to bring restoration,。
to bring wholeness, to bring love, to bring care, to bring mercy, to bring justice to。
those around us.。
I pray that you would reveal things to us, that we would see things, and where you just。
stir within our spirit to know that you wanted us to do something about that, that we're。
the ones who are able to, that you will lead us in that, Lord.。
And this is your work.。
This is not because we come up with it, but it's your spirit moving among your people.。
And this is us saying, "Yes, we want to be the people that you have set us free for.。
We want to be your righteous and your just people, so will you use us?"。
We pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
