Why don't you have a seat, why don't you have a seat.。
And I want to start today by asking you a question.。
And it's a really honest question.。
And the question is this, I wonder if you've ever felt hopeful for like really serious。
positive change in your life and then things just got worse.。
Anyone ever experienced that?。
Where you were really hopeful for positive change to happen in your life and things just。
kind of got worse rather than better?。
Have you ever felt an experience where God has spoken a word to you?。
Where God said something into your spirit or confirmed something in you and you felt。
the rush of the wind of the spirit and you know you're about to move into something that。
God has promised for you and there's an excitement that builds up in you and perhaps you've even。
taken that first tentative little step of faith knowing that because God is saying it,。
because God is in it, because God is for it, you know that it's going to go well and as。
you step out in faith, it actually ends up being worse than what life was like before。
God had even given you the word in the first place.。
Anyone ever felt like that?。
Just me.。
Have you ever felt like God fans something into flame and as soon as you step forward。
in faith, the flame just died?。
Back in the spring of 2006, God spoke a word to me that was perhaps one of the most life-changing。
things He's ever said to me.。
The word was this.。
God said, "Andrew, it's time to build a family."。
And it's hard to describe to you the literally life-changing events that took place because。
God has spoken those words to me.。
I don't know if I've ever heard the audible voice of God, but this was a time in my life。
where I had never felt a word so sure, a word so real, a word that released a wind of the。
Spirit in me like nothing before.。
"Andrew, it's time to build a family."。
My wife and I got married early.。
I was 16, she was 15.。
Just kidding, just kidding.。
It wasn't like that at all.。
Some of you here, like, you're a guest today.。
Somebody invited you to church.。
You're like, "What?"。
But we did get married young.。
I was 23, she was 22.。
Now my wife's from a culture where people often get married young and when they get。
married young, they usually start to have kids young.。
And usually by about the age of 25, the family has kids already.。
The first child comes into the world at about the age of 25.。
I grew up in Hong Kong.。
I come from a very different culture to my wife.。
In Hong Kong, you have to have a big successful career first before you have kids, right?。
Like things take a lot longer in Hong Kong.。
People don't generally have kids at a young age.。
It usually happens when you get into your 30s and you've kind of lived a life and things。
have happened and maybe you've had some success and now you're ready to settle down and have。
kids.。
So my culture and my wife's culture, very different.。
And so we get married 23, 22 and Chris is like, "Woohoo, time for kids."。
And I was like, "Woohoo, no."。
Because I wanted to enjoy my life.。
I wanted to enjoy my wife.。
I wanted to go and see the world and do things together and have great dreams and enjoy life。
without the inconvenience of little kids around all over the place.。
I didn't want to be shackled down.。
I wanted to be free.。
So my wife and I, soon after we got married, had a conversation.。
My conversation read, "Argument."。
And she was like, "But I want to have kids.。
I'm excited for kids."。
We talked about having kids and we had actually talked about having kids before we got married,。
my bad.。
And I said, "But I'm not ready, honey.。
We can't do it.。
I'm not ready.。
I don't feel ready."。
And so I said, "No."。
And this conversation would come up every year.。
Every year we'd get to the end of the year and Chris would be like, "Are you ready now?"。
And I'd be like, "No.。
I'm not ready.。
I don't want to do this.。
I don't feel equipped.。
I don't feel like this is my time.。
I feel like we've still got more time together and I don't want to get shackled down."。
And I was going through all of this.。
And throughout the years of my 20s, she kept on going, "Now?"。
I kept on going, "No."。
We got to the end of our 20s.。
I turned 30.。
And Chris is like, "Man, it's been eight years.。
We've been married for a long time now.。
And what's going on?。
When is this ever going to happen?"。
And we were in New Zealand at this time.。
And I remember the exact moment.。
I'm sitting in a chair and I'm staring out through this beautiful large window at a beautiful。
New Zealand park, green everywhere.。
And there's this family, husband, wife, and one child.。
And they're pushing their child on the swing set in this park.。
And as I looked upon that, I almost heard the audible voice of God.。
"Andrew, it's time to build a family."。
And I can't begin to describe the 180 that happened in my spirit in a single moment.。
Before that moment, I would look out on those people in the park and I'd be like, "Man,。
that's tough.。
You know, bless them, but that's not what I want."。
And literally within just that phrase from God, I felt my spirit completely change.。
I felt the rush of the wind of the Spirit in me like perhaps I've never felt before.。
And I knew that this was our time.。
I knew that God had ordained this time that God was calling us into perhaps the greatest。
journey and adventure my wife and I would ever have.。
We would start to build a family together.。
And I remember looking out on this family and I remember almost seeing Chris and I standing。
in this park pushing a child together.。
And I longed for that moment.。
I longed to be a father like I had never longed before.。
It was just this instant change in my life.。
I remember sharing with Chris, "Hey, Chris, I feel like God's given me a word today and。
I'm ready.。
Let's go.。
Like this is happening."。
And she starts crying and she's so excited.。
She's been so long suffering, waiting for me to get to the place where I'm finally there.。
And together we're so filled with joy because God had spoken.。
And when God speaks, things happen.。
Amen?。
Amen.。
Yeah.。
I told this story many times over the years.。
If you've been here at the Vine, you'll know what happened next.。
God did not roll out the red carpet of fertility for Chris and I.。
In fact, we tried for around about a year.。
And at the end of the year, we realized that this was not happening like we thought it。
was going to happen.。
We had the question, "Did God really say that it was time?"。
And we entered into a time of tests.。
I figured my wife, there's lots of things that could go wrong in that area.。
With a guy, it's only one thing.。
So I kind of like thought the issue would be with her.。
But we very quickly discovered that the issue was with me.。
And that entered us into another year of procedures, of tests that culminated in a surgery to discover。
whether I was biologically able to father children or not.。
And at the end of that one surgery, the next week we were called into the doctor's office。
at the fertility clinic that we were a part of.。
And Chris and I sat down together holding each other's hands, looking across the desk。
at this doctor white coat clipboard.。
And he turns to me and he says these words.。
These were his exact words.。
He says, "Andrew, you will never be a father."。
I want you to sit into the contrast of the paradox of these two words about a year and。
a bit apart.。
"Andrew, it's time to build a family."。
"Andrew, you will never be a father."。
And I remember thinking to myself, what is going on here?。
Because more than anything in my life, I knew that God had spoken.。
I had never felt the rush of the wind of the spirit like that and ever before.。
I knew that God was in this.。
I knew that this was our time.。
And suddenly things have gotten a lot worse than better.。
In fact, our marriage was better before God had given me that picture of that family and。
God had given me that word.。
We had now just gone through all of this pain, all of this hurt, all of this frustration,。
and I was angry.。
And I wonder whether this resonates with any of you here today.。
Like when you see these two things here, maybe for you it's not that exact issue, but you。
know a time in your life where you felt like God say something and you took that step out。
and things did not go how you thought.。
In fact, it got worse rather than better.。
I remember writing in my journal something super honest.。
I wrote this, "How can you call me into freedom and then take me into more slavery?"。
I was wrestling with this idea.。
How can you, God, call me into great freedom, but then bring me into a place of deeper slavery?。
That question and the paradox that it creates is exactly what we see happen next in our。
Exodus journey.。
We're entering into chapter five today, and I want to tell you this.。
Chapter five is one of the hardest chapters in the whole of the journey.。
Chapter five is the moment where Israel have looked out that window and seen that swing。
set and gone, "God is for us."。
And then nothing happens quite how they were expecting it to happen.。
In fact, things get a lot worse before they get better.。
And perhaps some of you today, you're in a situation where your life feels like it's。
worse than it's ever been before.。
Perhaps things have happened or things are going on for you right now where you're wrestling。
with those deep questions, "Where is God in this?。
I thought God was for me, and if God's for me, then who can be against me, but this is。
my reality."。
And you're sitting in the reality of what you're struggling with.。
Perhaps during this series of Exodus, you've enjoyed the series and you're excited because。
you believe that God is calling you out of a slavery.。
You believe that God has spoken to you over the last six, seven weeks, and there is something。
that you're trying to exit from.。
There's something that you're trying to depart from, an exodus for yourself, and you're excited。
about it, and you're really looking forward to it, and you know that God is for you and。
God's going to do great things.。
I want to just say something right up front that I think is really important to understand。
about the whole journey and the book of Exodus itself, and it's this.。
Just because God calls us to freedom doesn't mean that the journey is going to be a pain-free。
one.。
Come on, church.。
And I know this is not going to be easy, but I want to present to you the heart of what。
Scripture reveals to us.。
Just because God might be calling us to freedom doesn't mean that the journey is not going。
to be a pain-free one.。
It doesn't mean that suddenly we're going to be questioned from all the bad stuff.。
It doesn't mean that perhaps we're going to have to go to even deeper places of our brokenness。
and our darkness before we might see the journey of freedom that God has, that maybe there's。
a first thing that needs to happen.。
Because one thing you've got to understand that when you're on any journey of deliverance,。
any journey of freedom, the darkness always fights back.。
The darkness always tries to fight back.。
And if the Exodus story tells us anything, it tells us this, that the journey of deliverance。
is always a journey that has highs and lows, a journey of great mountain peaks and dark。
valleys, a journey, yes, where there's straight moments and straight paths, but also a journey。
where things wind and twist and you wonder whether it will ever end.。
And I'm so grateful that the sobering reality of deliverance is that it is not pain-free。
and that the Bible does not shy away from it.。
And I want to show you how it doesn't shy away from it here.。
And I want to open this up to you with that pastoral heart that we've been talking about.。
Because I believe that there is some real nuggets of wisdom for you this afternoon,。
if you resonate at all with the kind of thing that I've already been sharing with you.。
I want to show you the contrast that happens between chapter four and chapter five.。
John did a fantastic job last week with chapter four, as he showed you the signs that happen,。
that God gives Moses, throwing down the stick and becoming a snake, the leprosy in the jacket。
and that kind of thing.。
Those signs were a revelation that God was at work, that God was here to fight on behalf。
of His people.。
And at the end of chapter four, you get this climax moment where the people of Israel begin。
to believe that God is going to deliver them.。
I want to read to you just the final few verses of chapter four.。
"Moses and Aaron brought together all the elders of the Israelites, and Aaron told them。
everything that the Lord had said to Moses.。
He also performed the signs before the people, and they believed."。
They saw the signs and they believed.。
They believed that their God was come.。
They believed that their God cared for them, that their God was compassionate, that their。
God was going to deliver them.。
"And when they heard that the Lord was concerned about them and had seen their misery, they。
bowed down and worshipped."。
I mean, what a moment.。
The whole of Israel realizing that their 430 years of being trapped in Egypt is about to。
be released.。
The whole of Israel understanding that God is now here for them, fighting battles for。
them, that their God is concerned for them.。
And so they fall down and they worship Him.。
This is everything that God had asked, that He was going to deliver them so that they。
might be free to worship Him.。
Right here, before anything else, they start to worship.。
And you can almost sense the faith that's in the camp of Israel in this moment.。
The sense that God is here now for them.。
And it's off the back of this faith and this confidence that Moses and Aaron now go to。
Pharaoh to confront him and ask him to let his people go.。
And you can understand that Moses and Aaron are in this moment of great joy.。
They're in this moment of great confidence and faith.。
And you can understand that they're expecting that if God is for us, who can be against。
us?。
And so in that confidence, they stand before God.。
And notice chapter 5, verse 1 onwards.。
"Afterwards," so after this amazing moment on this mountaintop experience of worshipping。
God, "Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and said this, 'This is what the Lord, the God。
of Israel, says, 'Let my people go so that they may hold a festival to me in the desert.'"。
Pharaoh said, "Who is the Lord that I should obey Him and let Israel go?。
I do not know this Lord and I will not let Israel go."。
Not quite what Moses and Aaron were expecting.。
They then said to Pharaoh, "The God of the Hebrews has met with us.。
Now let us take a three-day journey into the desert to offer sacrifices to the Lord our。
God, or He may strike us with plagues or with the sword.。
But the king of Egypt," that's Pharaoh again, "Pharaoh says, 'Moses and Aaron, why are。
you taking the people away from their labor?。
Get back to work.'。
Then Pharaoh said, 'Look, the people of this land are now numerous and you are stopping。
them from working.'"。
Notice this, "That same day, Pharaoh gave this order to the slave drivers and the foremen。
in charge of the people.。
You are no longer to supply the people with straw for making bricks.。
Let them go and gather their own straw, but require them to make the same number of bricks。
as before.。
Don't reduce the quota for they are lazy."。
And this is why they are crying up and going, "Let us go and sacrifice to our God."。
Make them work harder for the men so that they keep working and pay no attention to。
the lives.。
This was not expected.。
They were expecting, "Hey, let us go."。
"Oh, okay, sure.。
Yeah, you can go."。
And God is at work here, but this is not how people expected things to happen.。
It has gotten not just normal, but worse than before.。
Notice this, that there is now slavery taking place at a level that it had never happened。
before.。
There's an oppression that's happening at a level never before.。
Pharaoh takes the straw away from the Israelites.。
The straw was an essential component to making these bricks that they had to make.。
It held them and bound them together.。
He removes it from them and tells them that they still need to make the same quota of。
the same quality bricks as before, which meant that the Israelites had to go source the straw。
themselves in order to try to make these bricks.。
If they made bricks without straw, they wouldn't be strong enough to hold anything.。
This is an incredibly difficult thing.。
And they're in this moment where they're like, "Hang on.。
This is not the way things were supposed to go."。
Because God had said, "Now's the time to build a family."。
And then I discover I'm infertile?。
Hang on a sec.。
What's really going on here?。
This so upsets, in fact, the leaders of Israel.。
They go before Pharaoh later in the chapter, and they say to Pharaoh, "Hang on.。
You must have got this wrong, right?。
Why are you making it harder for us?。
We're already your slaves.。
Now you're actually making it harder for us."。
And Pharaoh's response is, "You're lazy.。
I'm not going to let these people go so they can worship some God that I don't believe。
in or know.。
I'm not going to do that.。
In fact, you're going to work harder."。
And then he beats them up.。
So not only are they slaves, now they're having to make bricks without straw.。
Now they're being beaten up.。
This is getting really bad.。
And understandably, God's leaders, these leaders of Israel, turn and come to Moses。
and Aaron.。
And I want to read you what it says at the end of this chapter as they speak to Moses。
and Aaron.。
This is verse 20.。
"When they left Pharaoh, they found Moses and Aaron waiting to meet them.。
And they said, 'May the Lord look upon you and judge you.。
You have made us a stench to Pharaoh and his officials, and they have put a sword in their。
hands to kill us.'"。
The leaders of Israel come before Moses and Aaron, where just before they're all worshipping。
up on a mountain, believing God and thinking it's all going to be great.。
Now they come before Moses and Aaron and they say, "We hope that God judges you."。
In other words, they put a curse on them.。
And they say, "We've become a stench before Pharaoh."。
And I wonder if you could see what's happening here.。
They're looking for someone to blame.。
And the people that they're going to blame is the leader that's in front of them.。
The ones that had caused them to believe that good things were going to happen.。
I want you to know, it is not easy to be a spiritual leader of a group of people.。
Church, it's not easy to be a spiritual leader of a group of people.。
And over the years, man, you guys are lovely, I love you dearly, but over the years, pass。
around you, "Why did you do this?。
Why did this happen?。
You said this would go on.。
You prayed for me, but it didn't get better.。
It got worse.。
You put a curse on me."。
And when you see this heart that we have so often when things don't go our way, who is。
it that we can blame?。
Notice what Moses and Aaron do off the back of this, verses 22 to 23.。
Moses returns to the Lord and says, "Oh Lord, why have you brought trouble upon this people?。
Is this why you sent me?。
Ever since I went to Pharaoh to speak in your name, he has brought more trouble upon his。
people and you have not rescued your people at all."。
Moses goes before God and cries out honestly before him and he says, "God, what are you。
doing?。
Because I thought you were in this.。
I thought you said build a family, but this is not happening now.。
Like every time I try to do this, it's just getting worse.。
Why have you not rescued your people?"。
These are honest, true, and real words from Moses.。
And I'm so grateful that we have this passage in Scripture because it means that we can。
come before God with some of these words that we have, with some of this anger and frustration。
in life.。
I mean, if I'm honest with you, I could so easily rewrite this passage myself.。
"Andrew returned to the Lord and said, 'Why, oh Lord, have you brought this trouble on。
me?。
Why did you give me the excitement to build a family to only make me incapable of doing。
so?。
Ever since I stepped out in your name, you have brought me nothing but trouble and you。
have not delivered on your promise at all.'"。
I wonder if you might have something similar yourself, where you would find yourself at。
times coming before God and saying, "Why?。
This is not right."。
Perhaps you felt God has released you into something like I did that time and it hasn't。
worked out the way you thought it was going to work out.。
Perhaps for some of you in here, God said, "Hey, I'm going to make your marriage better。
and your marriage has just gotten worse."。
Maybe for some of you in here, it's your finances and you thought your finances would turn around。
and you've been praying for your finances, but you've just seen your bank account get。
lower and lower and lower.。
Maybe for some of you here, it's a sickness that you're carrying, a disease that you can't。
seem to shake and, oh, you've been praying and your friends have been praying and everybody's。
been praying, but it just seems to be getting worse rather than it's getting better.。
Or maybe there's some sin or some brokenness in your life and you've genuinely brought。
it before God and you've asked Him to forgive you and you felt God's forgiveness, but you're。
more tempted than you've ever been before.。
Why is it that sometimes it gets worse before it gets better?。
How do we reconcile this reality with a good God?。
It's one of the most fundamental questions of our scriptures and one of the most fundamental。
things that is happening right here in chapter 5 of the Exodus journey.。
How do we reconcile this paradox that is so often before us in our Christian lives?。
Well, the last thing I'm going to do today is give you some glib answer.。
I mean, it would be great if I could stand before you and go, "Oh, okay, here's the one。
prayer that you can pray that's going to sort your whole life out.。
If you just pray this prayer in three easy steps, every problem you've ever had will。
go away for the rest of your life."。
Like I wish that could happen.。
I wish I had a theological magic wand to teach you something or tell you something that's。
going to immediately change your perspective on every bad thing that's ever happened in。
your life and everything's going to be great again.。
I'm not going to stand in front of you today and give you some glib answer.。
I have to say, during my infertility journey, although I was surrounded by really good-meaning。
people and people that had a great heart, I got a lot of glib answers to my problems.。
And I wonder whether you've ever experienced something like that.。
It seemed to me when I was going through my infertility journey that everybody had the。
answer except for me.。
I felt like everybody knew exactly what I needed to do to change myself so that I could。
suddenly produce kids all over the place.。
"Oh, Pastor Andrew, prayer of Jabez is the prayer to pray.。
You just pray the prayer of Jabez, everything will be fine."。
Or perhaps here at the Vine, it was more like this, "Andrew, there are Chinese herbs and。
medicines that you can have that will totally change your life.。
Are you with me, church?"。
Everybody seemed to have a solution except me.。
Everybody seemed to have an attitude towards what I needed to do to suddenly make myself。
better.。
And I want to be honest about it, some of those things were more painful and hurtful。
to me than my actual infertility journey.。
And so I'm not going to give you some answer today.。
What I want to do though is invite you into Moses' journey in this chapter.。
And I want to share two specific things about what happens for Moses.。
And I want to share them again, not as answers, but as invitations to reflection, invitations。
for you to reflect a little bit deeper about the things that are happening in your life。
and your relationship with God.。
Does that sound okay?。
Here's the first thing.。
Moses falsely accuses God.。
And I think this actually opens up for us a deep reflection around so much of what we。
do as humans when life doesn't seem to match up to what we thought about what God was going。
to do.。
You see, we so often accuse God for not being concerned or compassionate towards us.。
That's one of the primary things that happens when we're going through a moment like this。
in life.。
We suddenly accuse God of not having enough love, not having enough compassion, not being。
concerned enough about us.。
And when we do that, we're doing that because of this.。
We're doing that because we're allowing our circumstances to define how much compassion。
and love we think God has.。
I did this throughout my infertility journey.。
There were many times where I looked at the situation I was in and I allowed that to define。
for me how much concern or love that I thought God had for me.。
Because if God had this kind of love, surely it wouldn't be like this.。
And I was allowing my circumstances to define God rather than God define my circumstances.。
Are you with me?。
And this is the first thing that Moses is doing here.。
He comes before God and he's like, "Why have you not come through?。
Why have you not delivered?。
Why have you not rescued the people?"。
Now this is really interesting because just two weeks prior to this, in the burning bush,。
Moses is like, "I don't want to go."。
Moses has no compassion at all.。
"I don't want to go.。
I'm happy here in the desert.。
I've got a new family.。
Everything's great.。
Why would I go back to the place of my greatest brokenness?"。
And God reveals something to him.。
"I'm a God of compassion.。
I'm a God who is so compassionate that I look down upon my people and I see them in their。
slavery and it's moved me and now I've come and called you to go back to Egypt."。
God defines himself the first time that he meets Moses as a God of compassion.。
Two weeks later, Moses is pointing the finger at God.。
Where's your compassion?。
Are you not compassionate?。
And this is really dangerous because here's where this takes us as human beings.。
It's dangerous for us to begin to think that we have more love and more compassion than。
God himself.。
That's what happens in this kind of journey.。
We begin to think that we are the ones who are actually more compassionate and more loving。
than God.。
And because we begin to think that way, we begin to take our circumstances into our hands.。
"Oh, I'm going to fix it."。
"Well, if you're not going to do it, if you're not loving, well then I guess I'll try and。
do it myself."。
And we suddenly place ourselves in the perspective of God and we become gods in our minds.。
This is idolatry and pride.。
And Moses is pointing the finger at God and saying, "You're not doing all this stuff."。
And I think that's a place that I know I get to.。
And I need a deeper reflection around how I allow my circumstances to define God rather。
than God give me a perspective on my circumstances.。
That's the journey that Moses has to go through between this chapter and the next about 20。
or 12 chapters.。
I think it's a journey that all of us at times in our lives have to go on.。
Here's the second thing that takes place for Moses.。
And this is like mind-blowing.。
At the one and the same time that Moses is basically throwing a whole bunch of blame。
at God, God is actually at work in Moses.。
See, our God is so loving, so compassionate, and so kind that in the very same moment that。
Moses is essentially lashing out at God for not having enough compassion, God is actually。
working on Moses' heart to give him more compassion.。
And in a human thinking, we think like, "I would never do that.。
This is God."。
And God's like, "Right now I'm actually forming and shaping you in Moses the very compassion。
that you're going to need for the journey that's ahead of you.。
Right now as you're in the place where you think things are getting a lot worse before。
they're getting better, and it is actually a lot worse than it was just a week ago for。
your people, I'm actually doing something in you that is forming and shaping and forging。
in you the kind of compassion you're going to need to be the true leader of my people."。
Because Moses has already gotten a lot more compassion than just two weeks previously。
when God had met him at a burning bush.。
He's already got more compassion, but he hasn't got the kind of compassion yet that God is。
seeking for him to have, because Moses is still pointing fingers and blaming God for。
how God's not seeming to act.。
And what you're going to see later on in the story of Exodus is in the moments when it。
feels like God is not going to act or God isn't doing what Moses thinks, Moses doesn't。
point his finger and blame God anymore.。
Here's what Moses says.。
He says, "God, you are merciful and compassionate, and I believe that you are all these things,。
and I will not go forward.。
We will not take another step forward unless you go with us."。
See, something changes in Moses' heart from a, "Why are you not delivering us?" to a,。
"We will not do anything without you, because you are a merciful, loving, compassionate。
God."。
There is a change that happens in Moses that forms a love and compassion in him that would。
never be there unless it's been forged in the fire of when things get worse before they。
get better.。
God is doing something in Moses here that is so deeply profound, shaping him through。
great disappointment, through the rejection of his own people, and through his own anger。
and frustration that is creating in him something that could never be there without it.。
Now, I've told you my story of my infertility hundreds of times over the last...if you've。
been at the Vine for the last 10 years, you're sick of hearing that story.。
I get it.。
But up until now, you have never heard my wife tell you that story, to tell you her。
perspective on that story.。
And in many ways, my wife is the perfect echo of everything that happens in chapter 5 for。
Moses.。
My wife lives the same journey that Moses lives.。
My wife waiting for years and years and years for breakthrough and for hope that things。
will change.。
And then her husband comes to her and says, "Yes, things are changing.。
It's time to start."。
And my wife, in tears of joy that she now gets to move into a phase of her life that。
she's been long suffering for, and then to discover that there is more long suffering。
to come, in fact, some suffering that neither of us ever experienced.。
My wife having to wrestle through the anger and the frustration, through all of the realities。
of the fact that it's gotten worse than it was before.。
And then in that, my wife having to wrestle with some of the biggest questions about her。
womanhood, what it means to be a woman and carry a child.。
What it means to be a mother.。
And having to wrestle through some of the deepest pains and fears that she has.。
And in that, find herself forging a new perspective that would never have been in her unless that。
journey had taken place.。
I want to invite my wife now to share this story with you.。
What you're going to see on this film is raw.。
It's really vulnerable for her to do this, particularly to do this for everybody over。
all these services and for the internet and everybody that can see it.。
But I want you to lean in and open your heart to her side of the story.。
And I pray that you might be able to see a glimpse of Moses' story in her.。
Let's have a look.。
- You all good?。
- Yeah, good.。
Thank you.。
- Would you like to introduce yourself a little bit?。
- Sure.。
- Okay.。
- So, I'm going to introduce myself.。
- Would you like to introduce yourself a little bit?。
- Yeah.。
I'm Christine.。
I'm Andrew's wife.。
And I'm going to have a chat with you about our journey of how our family grew, our infertility.。
I think we started talking about having children quite young.。
We were quite young.。
And that conversation lasted for a long time.。
And then kind of when we were ready to have children, we couldn't.。
We thought that we would get pregnant quite quickly.。
I suppose a lot of people think that, and it does take time.。
So after a couple of years, we started to get some blood tests and different procedures。
done to see if there was an issue.。
And we discovered that there was an issue and that it was primarily with Andrew.。
So he had to go through a number of other tests to see what exactly was going on, where。
the problem exactly was.。
So it took quite a while.。
We saw a number of specialists.。
Yeah, there were a lot of emotions, mainly, I think for me, mainly around frustration.。
Frustration that we didn't start the process sooner.。
And I have to admit that I was like, well, I wanted to start it sooner.。
So the fact that it's happening all now, and it's taken such a long time, and we're getting。
older and older, I suppose I kind of put that at Andrew's feet that my frustration is his。
fault in a way.。
And then just sadness, anxiety around what things were going to look like, particularly。
for me, anxiety around how Andrew is doing.。
Because I could see that it's really hard to see other people struggle, right?。
So I can kind of deal with my own struggles, and I usually keep that pretty private.。
But when you're seeing another person in pain and struggling with questions, it's quite。
difficult.。
When you want to move into the next life stage, and it's difficult, and you see everyone else。
doing it, it's kind of a bit, what's the feeling?。
It's a bit lonely.。
You can feel a bit lonely.。
I think that loneliness, that fear of being lonely and kind of being left behind, I get。
angry.。
So I tend to, I do withdraw myself from the people that I'm angry with.。
And then I feel guilty that I'm withdrawing.。
And then I'm going in that whole loop of, well, if this is about a fear of being lonely,。
I'm causing myself to be lonely through withdrawing.。
So I think for people around me, for friends, it might have been a little bit confusing。
sometimes.。
But of course, they were really good, and they just let me feel the way I felt.。
So that was an impact.。
So I do remember there was a time where I decided to go out for a walk on my own.。
When I'm on my own, I can then think about my own feelings, because nobody else is around。
for me to be attending to.。
And that was when I was thinking about not carrying a child.。
Because if we couldn't have children biologically, I wouldn't be carrying a child.。
I was thinking about having a child in your womb, and all the experiences that I'll be。
missing out on.。
And I felt a loss, because right from an early age, little girls are given prams to push。
and babies to care for, and you play house and all that kind of stuff.。
And society is like, this is the way that you grow a family.。
So I felt sadness, I felt loss, I felt grief that I wouldn't know any of those experiences.。
I think when I processed through the life, not being able to carry this life and grow。
this life inside of me, which was sad, disappointing, grief, and then thinking about a life that。
is already present in this world, and we have such an ability to impact that life.。
I started thinking about life and how these children who are available for adoption have。
already entered into this world, they've already got life, and their life before them is a。
blank slate.。
And it's dependent not on what they choose, but on other people making these big choices,。
which is going to affect their life in such a phenomenal way.。
And I felt a great love for that, that Andrew and I could make a decision that will impact。
a life that is already here in such a powerful way.。
I felt, because there's a person right, we have a child now, and that's my child, I don't。
want another child.。
Even if I went back to that place, knowing what I know now, I'd be even more like, I。
don't want a care, I want this child.。
Not long ago I was thinking, you know, I'm disappointed, I feel a loss that I haven't。
been able to carry my child.。
And it will always be there, I'm sure as she gets older, every stage of life, you know.。
I don't know, there's something that comes through, carrying a child, and I really miss。
that I wasn't able to carry my child.。
It's amazing to me that out of a place of my wife's greatest pain, for not being able。
to carry a child, God would forge a love in her for Mia that would be so huge, that now。
her sense of loss is not having carried Mia in her womb.。
That her bond as a mother to Mia is so strong that that's now where she feels the loss.。
And Moses goes through this moment where he's wondering, what is God doing here?。
This is getting worse than we had ever imagined.。
God is forging in Moses a love that perhaps could not be found in him in any other way,。
but would be the very thing that would enable him to lead his people to the promised land.。
The same thing is happening for you, and whatever it is that you're struggling with, whatever。
journey it is that you are on, whatever brokenness it is that you might be carrying.。
So you have to understand that God's economy is different from the world's economy, and。
that in God's economy, conflict often precedes triumph, that suffering often precedes victory,。
that suffering does not mean that God is not faithful, that God sometimes allows his people。
to make bricks without straw.。
Your greatest moments of freedom will happen when you allow God to take you to the places。
of your greatest fears and brokenness.。
You see, the deliverance of God is never cheap, and when it is cheap, we so quickly forget。
it.。
But when we realize that there is a journey that he brings to us that is not guaranteed。
to be pain-free, but where the pain can forge in us something of him, never be able to be。
found in any other way, perhaps then we cry out, "Maranatha, come Lord Jesus."。
I believe that's actually what the Exodus is all about.。
Can I pray for you?。
Let's pray.。
Father, I'm so grateful for each person here, and I'm grateful for this pastoral moment。
to be together, and for us to bring ourselves raw before you with whatever it is that is。
overwhelming us in this time of our lives.。
Just like we heard today, there are no easy answers.。
There are no perfect prayers.。
Lord, we look into Moses' life and we see a man that we can connect to emotionally,。
because we've had some of those same frustrations, and we've carried some of those same questions.。
And Lord, we thank you for Chris and for her willingness to vulnerably share her story。
with us, and where we can see how things did get worse before they got better for her.。
And it was out of that time that you forged a love in her that ultimately would bring。
both Chris and myself to our daughter Mia.。
Father, I pray for each person here, for their journey, for wherever it is that they are。
on that journey.。
Lord, I pray for us as a church in our Exodus, that Lord, if you need to take us to places。
where we have to face some of these fears, where we have to wrestle sometimes with the。
brokenness at a level that is not easy.。
Lord, I would pray that you would help us to go there.。
Father, you're delivering us, and we're thankful that in the book of Exodus we can see the。
challenge that there is in such a journey.。
We know that the enemy will fight back, and we know that sometimes it gets worse before。
it gets better.。
But in the book of Exodus, we also have the way in which we see God work in the midst。
of human affairs, in the midst of human brokenness.。
We see a God who is compassionate, who is loving, who is the fullness of mercy, and。
who works in us and through us no matter where we are in life.。
And Father, I just really release that over people here.。
I want to encourage you, if this is an important word for you to, I want to just encourage。
you whilst our eyes are closed, just to open your hands before you.。
That simple posture of humility and surrender to Him is a way of saying, "Lord, would you。
come and meet me right here?"。
I don't have the answers, Lord.。
I don't know quite what's going on.。
I'm trying to trust you, but this is hard.。
As you open your hands, you're just coming before Him.。
And I believe He will meet you in profound ways, perhaps ways that you never would expect.。
And I believe He is forging and shaping in you.。
The person who's always longed and seen in you.。
And that life, that picture of the girl with the merry-go-round, that life is for you.。
And there's nothing that the enemy can do to stop you from the fullness of the life。
that God has for you.。
Father, would you come?。
Would you come and pastor your church, Lord?。
Would you come and pastor your people, Lord?。
Come Lord Jesus, come.。
Perhaps as you're just in this place, and maybe you're not sure how to pray, I'm just。
going to invite in a moment the team to just sing over you.。
Maybe the lyrics and the melody is your prayer.。
As God is forming and shaping something in you in this moment, you don't need to rush。
this moment.。
Allow His love and His compassion to be with you.。
Amen.。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
