Amen, amen, have a seat, have a seat.。
My name's Andrew, I'm one of the pastors here.。
If you've just joined the Vine。
or only been a part of us for a little while,。
we're so glad that you are here with us.。
We're in a series on the Holy Spirit.。
We've been opening the scriptures。
around the Spirit each week.。
And I wanna share out of a passage。
of the Apostle Paul writing to the church in Ephesus.。
And Paul was a prolific man of prayer,。
loved to pray for people, loved to pray for his church.。
He was deeply pastoral.。
And in the book of Ephesians,。
he actually prays a number of times.。
And often when Paul prays,。
he's not just kind of like offering a prayer.。
He's not just like Lord Jesus, amen kind of thing.。
He's actually trying to communicate。
and teach something to the church.。
His prayers are some of the deepest theological things。
that are found in his word.。
You can unpack them and get a sense。
of how he wants to pastor his church.。
And in the prayer I'm gonna read you here this morning,。
he says something about the Spirit.。
And what he says about the Spirit。
is one of these paradoxes that we're gonna be unpacking。
throughout our series,。
these both and elements of the Spirit.。
And this one is particularly key。
because this one draws us。
into a deeper knowledge of God himself.。
Let me read this to you from Ephesians 1,。
starting in verse 15.。
He says, "For this reason,。
ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus。
and your love for all the saints,。
I have not stopped giving thanks for you,。
remembering you in my prayers."。
And here's what I pray.。
"I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ,。
the glorious Father, may give to you the Spirit,"。
or in other translations,。
"that the Spirit would give to you wisdom and revelation。
so that you may know him better."。
Father, our prayer this morning as we gather in this room。
in the overflow online is that that would happen in us,。
that as you open your scriptures to us,。
as you speak a fresh word to us,。
that we would come to know you deeper, better.。
And Lord, I believe that you have a personal thing。
that you wanna say to every person。
in this room here this morning.。
And just as Emma has so beautifully prepared us,。
as we've brought that sacrifice of praise to you,。
as we've entered your gates with thanksgiving in our hearts,。
Lord, we pray now that you would reveal。
the innermost sort of passions and love。
that you have in your heart for each person in this room.。
We pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says.。
Amen.。
So a number of years ago, my wife and I, Christine,。
we were in Bible school in Auckland, in New Zealand.。
And my wife's from New Zealand,。
so when we decided to go to Bible school,。
we looked at lots of places we could have gone to,。
we decided New Zealand was the place.。
Auckland was the Bible school that we wanted to go to.。
And it was a great place, we loved it.。
But we always wanted to get out of Auckland。
and explore New Zealand.。
So on one particular long weekend,。
we decided we're gonna take a four-hour drive。
up to the north of New Zealand.。
Now, the further you go north in New Zealand,。
the less people there are.。
There's not a lot of people in New Zealand in general, okay?。
But the further north you go, the less people there are.。
And a friend of ours had a house in a place called Russell,。
which is kind of northeast on the North Island.。
And so from where we were in Auckland to get there,。
it's about four hours.。
We had lectures all day, so we had to stay,。
but we decided to leave at around about six o'clock。
at night.。
About three hours in, around about nine o'clock,。
we knew that we would enter into this village.。
And we had seen on the map that this village。
was the last largest populated area。
before we would end up where we were gonna go.。
And so if we needed to eat,。
if we were gonna eat some food,。
we needed to stop in this particular village.。
On the map, it looked like a decent-sized village.。
And I've come to learn that New Zealand。
kind of exaggerates the size of their towns on maps。
to make themselves feel a bit better.。
And so we arrive at this town at like nine o'clock at night,。
and it literally was like way smaller。
than we were predicting.。
It only had like one little road。
where there were some restaurants.。
And we were there, like I say, about nine o'clock.。
And so most of the restaurants there were shut.。
In fact, there was only one restaurant。
that was open at that particular time。
on that particular night, only one restaurant.。
I wonder if you could imagine with me。
what type of restaurant it was。
that was open at nine o'clock at night。
in the middle of nowhere in New Zealand.。
Anyone get it?。
It was a Chinese takeaway restaurant.。
Yes, it was.。
And not just a Chinese takeaway restaurant.。
No, no, no, no, no.。
It was a Hong Kong-style Chinese takeaway.。
I could tell right away,。
this looked like a dai pai dong from Mongkok or something.。
Like it just reeked Hong Kong.。
And of course, we were homesick at the time.。
And I was like, oh my gosh, this is so amazing.。
There's a Hong Kong Chinese restaurant.。
It's open.。
And it kind of, in the front of its door,。
it had like the beads that kind of go down。
to keep the flies out and stuff.。
And I said to Chris, I said, I'm gonna go in there。
and I'm gonna whip out my best Cantonese.。
You know, like I haven't spoken Cantonese for a while.。
This is gonna be awesome.。
And so sure enough, I was like,。
and I jumped into this restaurant.。
I'm like, (speaking in foreign language)。
(audience laughing)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So, thank you, thank you, thank you.。
So, so I whip out my amazing,。
immaculate, perfectly pronounced Cantonese.。
The man behind the counter, he's like 80 years old.。
He's like the kind of guy when you go into a restaurant here。
has like a cigarette hanging out of their mouth, you know,。
like with the ash that's like, you know,。
gonna fall into the thing.。
Like he's 80 years old, the oldest Chinese guy。
I think I've seen in a while.。
He's like so wrinkled and stuff.。
But as he hears my Cantonese, his face,。
he starts to smile, like the smile,。
literally years of youth enter his face.。
It's like he suddenly becomes a new man.。
He's so excited that there's somebody in his restaurant,。
speaking Cantonese.。
It's almost like him and his wife must've decided。
they're gonna plant a restaurant。
in the middle of this Chinese village。
or this village in New Zealand.。
And they get there and there's like no Chinese。
for miles around, right?。
He's never heard Cantonese for years.。
Here's this white guy speaking Cantonese in his restaurant.。
He thinks this is the greatest thing。
that has ever happened to him.。
So he starts speaking Cantonese back at me.。
And I tell you, he was like,。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(audience laughing)。
Little does he know that I've exhausted。
every piece of Cantonese I have ever spoken.。
But he doesn't know that.。
He's just going, (speaking in foreign language)。
I'm like, hi, hi, hi.。
(audience laughing)。
Pretending like I know what's going on, right?。
At one point he tells a joke.。
I'm assuming 'cause he laughs, I'm like.。
(laughing)。
At one point I know he asked me a question。
because at the end of what he was saying,。
he like, ah, you know, it's like,。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then he pauses and looks at me and I'm like.。
(audience laughing)。
And then he just keeps going, you know.。
This guy, like years washed off him。
'cause somebody had entered in and spoken。
just a little bit, a little utterance。
of the native language that was in his heart.。
Every human being is made in the image of God.。
And every human being has the same singular heart language。
embedded in their soul.。
And it's the heart language of the Spirit of God.。
And whether they know it or not,。
whether they believe in God or not,。
every single human being has a longing,。
a crying, a desperation deep within their soul。
to connect with the living God.。
And the Spirit of God speaks.。
And when the Spirit of God speaks into the person。
whose heart has long not heard the very language。
that brings them alive, they can't help but be changed.。
I mean, that guy in that restaurant that night。
hearing Cantonese changed him.。
He kind of came alive.。
But I tell you what, when the Spirit of God speaks,。
when the Spirit of God speaks a word in season,。
when the Spirit of God says something。
or brings something in the scriptures alive to us,。
it literally comes and changes and transforms us.。
The work of the Spirit of God,。
the voice of the Spirit in our lives。
is designed to change us, to heal our hearts,。
to make us anew.。
What I was teaching us in week one。
about going from disorder to order,。
that's the purpose of the reason why the Spirit speaks.。
I mean, think about that for a moment.。
The very reason that the Spirit speaks。
is so that He can move His people。
from a place of disorder into a place of order.。
The Spirit communicates in order to change us.。
He changes us by communicating to us.。
That make sense?。
And when that voice comes,。
when we hear it deep within ourselves,。
everything shifts, everything begins to change.。
And like I said in week one,。
it's because the Holy Spirit is a person.。
And because the Holy Spirit is a person,。
He longs to be in relationship with us,。
that connection that we can have with the Spirit.。
We saw in week one that there was this idea。
of the fellowship of the Spirit.。
So our connection point to the Spirit。
is found in this kind of reciprocal relationship。
we can have in communication,。
Him communicating to us so that we are changed。
and us communicating with Him。
and deepening our relationship with God.。
And the reason why this is all taking place。
is because God longs to bring into all of us。
clarity and focus.。
He loves to bring into all of us wholeness.。
It's that order that the Spirit of God。
is moving us towards.。
He wants you to be whole, to be clear about life,。
to move out of confusion.。
When the Spirit speaks, it's never to bring confusion.。
It's always to turn confusion on its head.。
The Spirit always wants to bring clarity。
and refreshment and newness and wholeness to you.。
That doesn't mean though,。
that every time the Spirit speaks,。
it's gonna be something you're gonna wanna hear.。
So often when the Spirit speaks,。
the Spirit actually does the contrary.。
He actually says something that we don't want to hear,。
but we need to hear.。
Doesn't mean always that the Spirit。
has such nice things to say.。
Sometimes the word comes from the Spirit。
that actually shapes and changes。
'cause He needs to disrupt the disorder。
in order to bring the order.。
But no matter how it happens,。
the Spirit's word changes all.。
If I was to summarize it, I would put it like this.。
The Spirit's goal is to communicate to you。
so that you would receive clarity, wisdom, and understanding。
so that you would be strengthened, comforted, and changed.。
That's a good slide to take a photo of。
if you wanna take a slide photo.。
This idea that He wants to bring clarity and wisdom。
and understanding into us so that we would be strengthened,。
comforted, and changed is the work of the Spirit.。
It's that native language that sits within all of us.。
And when we hear the Spirit,。
something within us begins to shift.。
Something within us begins to change.。
And why do we change?。
Because the Spirit leads us to the person of Jesus.。
Remember, it's Jesus that changes everything.。
And the Spirit's role is to illuminate Jesus,。
to help us to see Jesus clearer and better。
so that in Jesus, we can be transformed and renewed.。
In the same way that Jesus's role is to reveal the Father,。
the Spirit's role is to reveal Jesus.。
You following?。
So it's the Spirit speaks to us in that native language。
that all of our souls are crying out for。
so that we would see Jesus more clearly。
so that we would ultimately come to know the Father.。
The Spirit into Jesus, Jesus into the Father,。
the triune Godhead at work because God's voice is at work.。
This is why when Paul picks up this prayer for the church,。
he wants to help them to understand。
how the Spirit connects us to Jesus。
so that we can know the Father.。
And he mentions this next kind of and/or paradox。
that we're looking at,。
or the both/and paradox that we're looking at in this series.。
And it's the idea of teaching and revelation.。
Let me read this to you from Ephesians 1, verse 17 again.。
I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ,。
the glorious Father,。
may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation,。
or in other translations,。
the spirit that brings wisdom and revelation。
so that you may know Him better.。
Now, that's not the Spirit of God.。
Now, before I break this down。
into its individual parts,。
let me step you back for a moment,。
and you need to see the whole.。
It's so beautiful what Paul is saying here.。
He's praying to the church.。
His desire for them is to know God more.。
He wants them to know God better,。
and he understands that the only way。
that they're gonna know God better。
is through the work of the Spirit。
in teaching and revelation.。
That teaching and revelation provides for us,。
as Paul writes it here, wisdom and revelation,。
it provides for us the pathway。
to be able to get to know Jesus better.。
An analogy might be to think of this。
a little bit like Zacchaeus in Luke chapter 19.。
You'll be perhaps familiar with the story of Zacchaeus.。
Zacchaeus, we're told in the Scriptures, was a short person,。
and because he was short,。
he didn't have the stature to see over the crowd。
in order to capture a good glimpse of Jesus.。
And on this one particular day, Jesus is walking by,。
but Zacchaeus, being small,。
can't see Him properly through the crowd.。
And so Zacchaeus does a smart thing.。
He runs ahead, finds a tree, he climbs up this tree。
so he can get a clear view of Jesus.。
And then Jesus and him lock eyes together,。
and Zacchaeus invites Jesus to his house,。
and Jesus transforms not just Zacchaeus' life,。
but his whole family life.。
It's a beautiful part of Scripture.。
I think that's analogous。
to what Paul is trying to communicate here.。
Every single one of us, if you will,。
we're short in stature。
when it comes to being able to see Jesus.。
Our sin, our brokenness, and our flesh。
does not work to help us to see Jesus more clearly.。
Our sin is a little bit like a crowd in front of us,。
a crowd that's taller than we are,。
so that we're not able to be able to connect and see Jesus.。
But God has provided for us a way。
that we can move up above that sin,。
above that brokenness, to deal with it, if you will.。
It's a tree of His teaching。
and revelation by the Spirit.。
And as we go up that tree,。
we actually get a clearer view of who Jesus is.。
That's what Paul says here.。
I hope that the Spirit comes。
to bring you wisdom and revelation。
so you will see Him better, know Him better,。
engage with Him better,。
so that you can lift yourself out of the crowd。
towards the vision of Jesus, who changes everything.。
So I wonder whether here this morning。
we might have some time to climb that tree together.。
I wanna unpack for you what this wisdom and revelation,。
teaching and revelation,。
this two sides of this both-and paradox of the Spirit。
is all about for you.。
Paul begins with this idea of wisdom.。
He uses the word wisdom here.。
He's actually talking about this process。
of the Spirit teaching.。
I'll connect the two of them together in a moment.。
But he starts out by saying,。
look, He's gonna bring a spirit of wisdom。
so you can know Him better.。
The Greek word that Paul chooses here for wisdom,。
somewhat unique in this part of the Scriptures,。
and it's a word that has a lot of different things。
that come together to help you understand it.。
But essentially it means to illuminate,。
to make clear, to bring understanding, to give clarity.。
So the idea of wisdom is to take something,。
now this is really important, listen to this,。
take something that is already known。
and help us to understand it, illuminate,。
shine a light on something that is already present,。
already known, and help us to understand it。
so we can then embrace it for our lives.。
This is the concept that Paul's trying to communicate。
about how the Spirit works in us.。
It brings us understanding, illumination,。
teaching of what has already been given to us.。
Now this is really important that you notice。
that what it's emphasizing。
is something that's already been given.。
The teaching side is like, hey, I've given you something,。
whether that's my presence in the world。
or particularly of course the Scriptures themselves,。
the Word of God contained for us in the Bible.。
And he's like, my Spirit will help you and teach you。
so that he will illuminate。
so that you will come to a better understanding,。
so that you will come to see Jesus more clearly.。
The reality is these are just words on a page。
without the work of the Spirit in our lives.。
And words on a page have never changed or transformed anyone.。
They might have given somebody some knowledge of something,。
some understanding of it, but it's not transformative.。
And what Paul's saying is my prayer is。
that the Spirit will come to teach you,。
to illuminate, to reveal, to strengthen,。
to help you to see more clearly。
the very thing that he's already given you.。
That make sense?。
Now Jesus himself actually taught this.。
Let me show you Jesus speaking to the disciples。
in chapter 14 of John.。
He puts it this way.。
He says, "But the counselor or the advocate,。
the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name,。
will," notice this, "teach you all things。
and remind you of everything I've said to you."。
So this is Jesus kind of taking the same concept。
that Paul's speaking about.。
And Jesus is saying, look,。
here's what you need to understand.。
The Spirit is gonna come。
and the Spirit will teach you all things,。
illuminate all things,。
and remind you of the things that I've already said to you.。
In other words, there's already stuff out there.。
There's my word that I've already communicated,。
whether that's to you directly, audibly,。
or whether it's written down in the Scriptures.。
For them, it was of course the Old Testament.。
He said, "In all of that, the Spirit will illuminate it。
so you will know me better."。
So he will remind you of all of the things。
that I have said to you.。
This is how you begin to climb the tree.。
Anyone here ever opened the Bible and fallen asleep?。
Come on, church, let me see the hands, be honest.。
That's pretty much every single one of us, I know.。
I've been a Christian for 30 years, I understand, okay?。
Even as a pastor, I open the Word sometimes。
and I'm tempted to fall asleep.。
Here's a trick.。
If you ever wanna stay awake reading the Scriptures,。
here's a trick.。
When you open the Scriptures, before you read it,。
just pray a simple prayer.。
Holy Spirit, would you teach me?。
I invite you to teach me your Word。
so I could become more like Christ Jesus.。
If you pray that every single time you open God's Word,。
you are aligning yourself to the Spirit of God.。
You are aligning yourself to the very thing。
that the Spirit was designed to do。
and that is to illuminate what has already been given,。
to teach you, equip you in what has already been given.。
That make sense?。
So that's an important prayer to pray。
when you're coming to read Scripture.。
Now, this all then brings us back。
to why Paul writes wisdom here。
rather than the word teaching,。
because the whole point is to make us。
more and more like Christ Jesus.。
Notice what he says.。
He says, "So that you would gain wisdom。
"so that you may know Him better."。
Wisdom is this Hebrew concept。
that is beyond just knowing something.。
When the Hebrews spoke about wisdom,。
what it was was it was a lifestyle,。
not just a mental information thing.。
In other words, for Paul, his prayer is。
when the Spirit teaches us,。
it doesn't just give us right information,。
it also leads us towards right application.。
And this is really important for Paul。
because he wants you to understand。
that you are a fool, the opposite of wisdom,。
if you allow the Spirit to give you understanding。
and you do nothing with it.。
That if you get illuminated in the Scriptures,。
you learn something about God。
and you learn something about His characters and His ways,。
and you walk away and don't change.。
He's like, "You're a fool if that's what you think."。
Now, the Spirit is here to bring wisdom,。
and wisdom, the wise, are ones who not only。
are illuminated by the Spirit,。
but then decide to put that into practice in their lives,。
decide to live differently, act differently,。
think differently, under the power and the leading。
and the guiding of the Spirit.。
Those are the ones that have actually been taught。
by the Spirit, Paul is saying.。
And my prayer is that you would receive the Spirit。
that teaches you to wisdom,。
not teaches you to foolishness, teaches you to wisdom.。
So, the first part of this paradox。
is that the Spirit teaches us the things。
that are already there and helps us to be illuminated,。
to understand, so we can apply that into our lives.。
But then there's the second side of this paradox,。
the word he uses here is revelation.。
Think of it this way, the Spirit does not just illuminate。
the word that's already received.。
The Spirit also reveals the word that is yet to come.。
This idea of revelation, the other side。
of the Spirit's work here, is literally the Greek word。
for revelation that Paul uses here,。
is literally translated like this,。
to kind of disclose or to reveal something。
that was previously unknown.。
So, notice this, guys, where teaching。
was about taking what was known。
and helping it to be understood and applied.。
That make sense, follow that?。
Revelation is taking the things。
that are not previously known and bringing them to us.。
So, there are both of these moments at work.。
And it's really important that you understand。
that these never contradict themselves.。
They're all from the same source, and that's the Father.。
And when the Father works in this world,。
he works by illuminating the things he's already given,。
and he brings a fresh revelation, a fresh perspective,。
a fresh idea of perhaps things。
that we had never even thought about before.。
And both of those things work together,。
never contradict each other.。
In fact, that's how we test whether revelation。
is really from the God or not.。
'Cause let's face it, sometimes we can hear。
some pretty weird things.。
Sometimes we can eat a really spicy curry。
and have a crazy thought afterwards。
and think that that might be Jesus.。
The way that we take revelation。
and know that it is from him is we link it to Scripture.。
It will never contradict it, it will always work together.。
But you need to know that it's not just about。
discovering the word that's here,。
there's also the spoken word of God in the here and now.。
And those things are beautiful。
because they're both the work of the Spirit,。
and they both help us, the tree, to climb。
to be able to see Jesus more clearly.。
I mean, just step back from this for a moment。
and reflect on this.。
We don't have a God who decided to speak。
to a bunch of people 2,000 years ago and then went silent.。
We do have a God who spoke to a bunch of people。
2,000 years ago, captured in the word of God,。
which is a rich depository of grace and goodness。
and life eternal.。
But we also have a God who's still speaking today,。
a God whose voice is still at work。
so that those souls who are crying out for connection。
come alive, so that like that man in the restaurant。
whose literally ears has dropped off his face。
when he heard that language,。
so people can still be caught up in the wonder。
of a God who speaks in this moment.。
And when God speaks, he opens up for us。
this idea of things that might be going on in our lives,。
maybe things that nobody else knows, only God knows.。
And God brings a word or a picture。
or even illuminates a Scripture。
that helps to transform something within us.。
And we're like, so many times when people。
like listen to people speak here at the Vine,。
oftentimes when I'm talking to them afterwards,。
they're like, well, it was just like that person。
was speaking directly to me.。
And I'm like, yes, that's the Holy Spirit at work for you,。
bringing a revelation of something he wants you。
to be aware of that you previously were not aware of.。
It's a wonder when he does that.。
Paul, writing just to the church in Corinth,。
unpacks this concept a little bit more.。
So I wanna dig into this just a little bit more for you.。
So this is 1 Corinthians 2, starting in verse 6.。
He writes to the church, he says,。
"We do, however, speak a message of wisdom。
amongst the mature."。
There again, he talks about wisdom,。
the teaching and the application of God's word,。
"But not the wisdom of this age or the rulers of this age。
who are coming to nothing."。
So Paul wants you to know that there is not just。
God's wisdom, there's also the wisdom of this age.。
And I tell you what, you will always battle as a Christian。
between which of those two things you apply to your life.。
And if you're anything like me, you apply that one,。
sometimes almost as much as you apply this one.。
This one being the word of God, by the way,。
the wisdom of God.。
Do you know what I'm saying?。
I think we wrestle with this, don't we?。
The wisdom of the world, which seems so tempting。
and seems so seductive to us, and God's wisdom.。
Paul says, "There is wisdom out there,。
the wisdom of the world,。
but we have a different wisdom," he says,。
"one that's been spoken amongst the mature."。
Verse 7, "No, we speak of God's mystery,。
God's wisdom, a mystery that has been hidden,。
so therefore it wasn't known before,。
that God has destined for our glory before time began.。
None of the rulers of this age understood it,。
for if they had, they would have not have crucified。
the Lord of glory.。
However, here's what's been written in the scriptures.。
"No eye has seen, no ear has heard, no mind has conceived。
what God has prepared for those who love Him."。
You need to know in this room today that if you love Jesus,。
God has a lot prepared for you.。
He's prepared things for you, 'cause He loves you.。
Things that He's set aside,。
things that He's prepared in His written word。
that are to be illuminated and brought alive in your life,。
and things that He's prepared that He wants to say to you。
directly and personally by His Spirit.。
How does this happen?。
Notice verse 10, "But God has revealed it to us," by what?。
By His Spirit.。
"The Spirit searches all things,。
even the deep things of God.。
For who among people know the thoughts of a person。
except that person's spirit within them?。
In the same way, no one knows the thoughts of God,"。
here it is, "except the Spirit of God.。
We have not received the Spirit of this world,。
but the Spirit who is from God,。
that we may understand what God has freely given to us.。
That is what we speak, not in words taught by human wisdom,。
but in words taught by the Spirit."。
Notice this, "Explaining spiritual realities。
by Spirit-taught words."。
That's revelation, my friends.。
I don't know about you, but that's what I want in my life.。
I wanna look out on this world。
and not see physical reality, but spiritual reality.。
I wanna see spiritual reality in my life.。
I want the Holy Spirit to explain。
spiritual realities within me。
and spiritual realities in my city of Hong Kong。
with Spirit-taught words,。
not from the wisdom of this world,。
but the wisdom that can only come。
from the one who is still speaking today.。
When we hear Spirit-taught words,。
it brings us into spiritual reality.。
So Paul is saying, look,。
you need to sit with this tension of the both and and.。
It's not just the word, it's all about the word.。
And it's not just revelation.。
It's both of these things working together.。
The word that is illuminated by the Spirit。
to great understanding and application。
and the revelation of the spiritual realities。
of this world and of our lives。
by Spirit-taught words that can only come from God。
because only the Spirit searches。
the innermost realms of God.。
This was happening in the gatherings。
that Paul's early church was in in those days.。
This was happening all over the place.。
In fact, actually in Corinth, it was happening so much。
that there was kind of disorder happening in the church.。
And remember, the Spirit is here to take disorder to order.。
So Paul writes to the church about this disorder。
that's happening in their gatherings。
because there's so many kind of things happening,。
particularly the abuse of tongues,。
which maybe we'll get to in another week here.。
But in this moment, he writes to them to understand,。
look, there needs to be order,。
and there can be order if you quieten down。
and open your ears to hear what the Spirit says.。
Let me show you this in 1 Corinthians 14, verses one to three.。
He says, "Follow the way of love。
"and eagerly desire spiritual gifts."。
Pastor Ellison's gonna preach on spiritual gifts。
in a few weeks' time, "especially the gift of prophecy.。
"For anyone who speaks in a tongue。
"does not speak to people but to God.。
"Indeed, no one understands that person.。
"They utter mysteries within their spirit.。
"But everyone who prophesies speaks to people。
"for their strengthening, encouragement, and comfort."。
I love this, Paul's saying,。
"This is why I want you to eagerly desire prophecy。
"in your midst, because when the Spirit speaks,。
"revelation comes, it is for the strengthening,。
"it is for the encouragement,。
"and it is for the comfort of the church."。
And he's like, why would you not want that?。
Like he's like, embrace prophecy amongst you.。
Embrace the work of the Spirit amongst you.。
'Cause yes, he's gonna illuminate and teach you。
and apply the Word so good,。
but he's also gonna bring that life-changing moment Word。
that speaks in your life.。
And you're like, how did the Spirit know。
about that work thing that's going on?。
Because I haven't told anyone about it.。
And suddenly this Word comes,。
spiritual realities by Spirit-taught words。
that changes everything for us.。
And like that restaurant and that guy,。
everything drops off us and we become the people。
that we were created to be.。
Understanding, revelation, teaching, God's Word,。
coming together and making us into the people。
that we were designed to be, disorder into order.。
Over our time together, hopefully today,。
I've done the best that I can in the teaching part,。
helping to illuminate the scriptures。
so that we can both know and apply God better.。
But we wanna now take some time on the revelation part.。
And during our service at our pre-service part time。
and during our worship time,。
our pastors and our prayer ministers here at the Vine,。
they've been praying and asking。
for specifically Spirit-taught words,。
revelation, prophetic words that are spoken to us。
so that we can speak them to you。
so that we can begin to listen。
to the Word of God that way together.。
I'm so excited about this.。
Would you stand with me?。
And as you stand, I want you to do two things.。
Number one, everybody look at me.。
Is everybody looking at me?。
Good looking, right?。
Okay, you're looking at me because here's the thing.。
Do not leave.。
Hear from your pastor.。
Do not leave.。
The Lord has something He wants to say to you, amen?。
That's the first thing.。
Second thing, I wanna encourage you just to open your hands.。
Because as we open our hands,。
we're in a posture of receiving before the Holy Spirit.。
And I wanna pray for us,。
and then we're gonna listen to some Spirit-taught words.。
Holy Spirit, we thank you for the teaching and revelation。
that you have poured out on your church。
so that we could climb that tree and see you clearly.。
And Lord, in this moment, we ask you to speak.。
Holy Spirit, would you speak?。
Lord, I believe that you have a word。
for a lot of people in this room.。
A word that doesn't come from human wisdom, human strength,。
but a word that comes from your Spirit.。
So Lord, we pray that you would speak.。
And that in these words that are about to be spoken,。
many people here would come alive.。
So just keep yourself in a posture of receiving。
and I'm gonna make space now for any of the pastors,。
prayer ministers who have a word,。
for people in this room to come forward and share that word.。
(gentle music)。
(bells ringing)。
(bells ringing)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
