Well, in 2022 on Vision Sunday, Pastor Ivan and I,。
together with Pastor Andrew,。
we announced that we are planting a church。
with an English and a Cantonese service.。
Now, we did that during a time。
when there was still COVID restrictions.。
So we had to do it on a live stream,。
so we did it on camera.。
And it was actually a funny story,。
because Pastor Ivan,。
we were experimenting with,。
what do you call that thing?。
The teleprompter.。
But then right when he was gonna use it, it failed.。
But he was prepared anyhow, so it was no problem.。
So there's a lot of behind the scenes。
sort of stuff that happened.。
But besides that, we also mentioned on that Sunday。
that we did not know where we were gonna plant the church.。
So we said we had six criteria that we're looking for,。
and with which we're gonna search.。
And hopefully, that year we had Vision Sunday。
part one and part two.。
Hopefully, at Vision Sunday part two,。
we will be able to tell the church。
where we're actually planting the church.。
Now, I just want you to sit in that a little bit,。
that you're going in front of a group of people,。
and you're saying you're gonna do something,。
but you don't know where you're gonna do it.。
And then also, you're doing it on camera,。
so at that point in time,。
you can't even physically gather with each other.。
So there was a statement of an act of faith。
and of courage that we did that.。
And there was another part of it.。
It was part of our vision,。
'cause we had what's called a river model vision,。
where there's this image of a river。
flowing all over across Hong Kong。
with all the secondary rivers and little creeks,。
and that God wants us,。
instead of focusing on building one big church,。
he wants the river to flow throughout Hong Kong,。
watering thirsty land.。
And he wants to form new and different types of communities,。
fresh expressions throughout the land。
to love, to serve, to share the gospel for his kingdom.。
And we also said this is greater than the wine church.。
This is not just wine church.。
We're not trying to build empire.。
We really just wanna be obedient to God。
and share the gospel and do his work.。
Now, all of this, during this time,。
there was also a sense that we had as a leadership。
that this was a prophetic act,。
that while other companies were pulling out of Hong Kong,。
their investments,。
they were shifting to regional headquarters like Singapore。
and other Asian hub cities,。
you know, we felt that God was asking us。
to double down on investing in Hong Kong.。
There was the sense that God was saying to us,。
I'm not finished with Hong Kong.。
But the reality was at the time,。
there was quite a few people, not everyone,。
but it was quite a few people。
who at that time felt that way.。
It was just a very difficult season.。
And so this was an act of faith and of stepping out。
and then doing what God asked us to do.。
Now, we did not do this on our own.。
You can't plant a church on your own.。
Otherwise it'd just be Ivan and I hanging out,。
having a beer probably or actually wine.。
Truth be told, it'd be wine, it wouldn't be beer.。
But there was others involved in that.。
And so I actually want to ask those of you。
who were part of the launch team。
that met and went shy to stand up.。
So you see there's a few people here。
that were part of that.。
You can sit down.。
Thank you so much for doing that, for humoring me.。
(audience applauding)。
So this was a group of brave people。
who responded not to Ivan and I really,。
but to what God was saying to them。
and how God was moving and stirring in their hearts.。
And they said, yes, I want to be part of that.。
I can see what God wants to do.。
And so I'm gonna step out in faith.。
I'm gonna take this risk,。
'cause it's risky to go out, to leave your comfort.。
Man, the Vine Church in Wanchai is home.。
You know, it's been a place of healing for many of us。
and a place of friendship and a place,。
I know for my wife, it's the only place besides here now。
that she's ever been part of a church.。
And so this was leaving home,。
but everyone stepped out because they were moved。
and touched by the Holy Spirit to do so.。
And I do wanna acknowledge that subsequently,。
there's been people stepping out in faith。
and joining us in what we're doing.。
There's a lot of faith in going back to church。
if you haven't been in church in a while.。
There's a lot of faith in making your gifts。
and talents available as you join us。
in helping us carry out this mission。
and this work that God has given us.。
But what I wanted us to see is,。
it's amazing when we're willing。
to get out of our comfort zone what God can do.。
When we make ourselves available to him,。
and Margaret Mead, she was an American cultural anthropologist。
and a speaker and author, also an Anglican Christian,。
she said this, "Never doubt a small group。
"of committed people can change the world.。
"Indeed, it's the only thing that ever has."。
So it always takes people to step out。
and take that first step into this new thing。
that God is doing.。
And so it's amazing what God has done,。
and I hope you've been amazed.。
I know Ivan and I are, and we're just blown away。
by the work of God, the work of the Spirit。
here in this community.。
And it's this, what we are sensing。
and are being called to this year again.。
God is calling us out of our comfort zone。
into uncharted waters because of the kingdom impact。
it will have on Hong Kong,。
and because of discipleship impact it will have on us.。
Now along with this word of uncharted waters。
that God has given us, there was also a prophetic image。
that was shared.。
This is Pastor Andrew shared this。
with the church leadership.。
The church leadership discerned and approved。
that yes, this is a word not just for Wan Chai,。
but it's also a word for Wan Chai,。
but also a word for Yuen Long as well.。
And after all, we are one church in two locations, right?。
And so this image is of a boat,。
of kind of during like earlier days。
when there was uncharted waters,。
when you didn't know what lies in that direction。
if you just sail out straight.。
And so there's this image of a boat heading out,。
and there's an excitement among the crew。
that is heading out on this boat.。
There's an anticipation and an expectation。
of what's to come.。
There's the captain standing at the bow。
and peering at the horizon,。
to wondering what were we gonna discover?。
What are we gonna find?。
And the crew is using their gifts and talents。
working together to,。
'cause that's the only way it works on these adventures.。
Excuse me.。
(microphone feedback)。
My apologies.。
And so the image,。
but there's also, so besides a sense of excitement,。
there's also some fear and some anxiety。
because going in the uncharted waters,。
you know, it's uncomfortable,。
and we don't know what's gonna happen.。
And there's a sense of that resilience and courage,。
you know, we'll be needed flexibility。
to make adjustments as we go.。
And so this was this image that God gave us for this year.。
Now this is not a new vision。
in terms of what we're doing as a church.。
We still have our river model vision。
and a growing big people vision。
that we are pursuing together.。
But now,。
but this is what we sense God inviting us。
into is stepping in these uncharted waters。
and this uncharted territory.。
Now, I know that many of you feel like,。
"Man, Tim, we just got settled here.。
"We just, we already did the uncharted thing.。
"We already went out.。
"Come on, what are you talking about?"。
You know, and we understand that.。
And it's been amazing, you know,。
that we made ourselves available.。
We went and we've experienced what God has done.。
But we sense that last year was a bit of a time。
of also resting, you know, of that intimacy.。
We also talked about, there was a lot of healing.。
You know, we had the sermons, he's longing for healing.。
We felt that God was doing healing work.。
And so, but now he's inviting us to set out again。
as a boat together.。
And we didn't plant this church to stay in the harbor.。
You know, we plant this church to set out。
into the community, into the businesses,。
into your families, into your neighborhoods.。
And then as we're sailing out,。
we believe that there will be discoveries。
of the work of God is doing,。
that he wants us to say yes to,。
and to give ourselves to, you know,。
to these things that God is doing,。
where the spirit of God is moving.。
And then when we, when you see God work,。
when he invites you to something,。
it does take that decisive response.。
You know, you cannot say, "Oh yeah, okay, maybe later."。
No, if God is moving here, this is like a Kairos moment.。
Like it's an opportune time, we need to respond now.。
We need to give ourselves to it now.。
And there's things we're just not gonna discover。
when we just stay here in the harbor.。
So we have to set out.。
And I'm excited about that.。
And excited to see, you know,。
what God is gonna open up for us。
as we head out together in this community,。
in our workplaces, and what opportunities。
he's gonna give us to give ourselves to,。
to be part of the work that he is doing。
of bringing his kingdom more fully on this earth.。
Now, let me take you to Matthew 13,。
quite well-known parables.。
Starting in verse 44, it says this.。
"The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field.。
"When a man found it, he hid it again.。
"And then in his joy, he went out。
"and he sold all he had and bought that field."。
Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant。
looking for fine pearls.。
"When he found one of great value,。
"he went away and sold everything he had and bought it."。
Now, the first parable suggests that the kingdom。
is something that we stumble across.。
The worker of the field, he was not like a treasure seeker。
with one of those metal detectors.。
He was actually just trying to earn his day's wage.。
And as he was going about his work,。
suddenly he discovered his treasure.。
So that's how in the first parable。
that the kingdom comes upon that person.。
And then in the second parable,。
it suggests that the kingdom is encountered。
because there are expected surprises.。
So this is somebody who's intentionally seeking.。
He's seeking for great pearls.。
It's a merchant, he knows what a good pearl looks like,。
but he has to wait until one comes.。
And as he sees the great one,。
then he knows what he's seeing and then he goes for it.。
So the kingdom of God comes, we stumble across it,。
but we also seek it out and then discover it。
because we're seeking it.。
So I think that's important for us in the season.。
So both parables, they also make the point。
that this is an opportunity。
and actually also requires us to respond decisively。
when we come across the kingdom,。
when we find that treasure,。
when we find that pearl of great value.。
And one thing that stood out to me。
was in the first parable,。
talks about that there is great joy of the discovery.。
And I think that's important for us。
because there is a great sacrifice.。
He sells everything that he has.。
The merchant sells everything that he has.。
By the way, the day laborer。
was not a particular wealthy man,。
was actually probably a person。
with not very many resources.。
And the merchant was probably a wealthy man, a businessman.。
But when he came across the opportunities,。
they had to give their all to respond to it,。
to have it, to be part,。
to experience this great joy and to really receive it.。
And so the price is high.。
It's not an easy, oh yeah, maybe I'll sell。
this piano that I don't like,。
but I'll keep the stand that I really like.。
I'm not gonna let go of this.。
I'm gonna hold on to my Pokemon card collection。
and I'll let go of something.。
No, it requires a full response,。
a full giving of ourselves。
in order to be part of what God is doing.。
And so there's a real cost,。
there's a real risk and chance taking。
in responding to the kingdom。
when God's reign and the work of God breaks upon us.。
Now, the same is true for us.。
I mean, we enter the kingdom,。
of course, when you come to faith,。
so there's a radical response。
because it means you're giving up your lordship。
instead of being lord of your own life, right?。
Instead of being lord of your own life, right?。
Your Jesus becomes your lord,。
so there's a significant shift in that.。
But then at later times,。
when the kingdom of God breaks into our lives,。
it still calls for a radical response.。
And like with the person who found a treasure in the field。
and the merchant who found this incredible pearl,。
they saw something that other people didn't see.。
They saw something of tremendous and incredible value.。
We could say they saw a better possible future.。
They saw this incredible thing that God was doing.。
They're like, "I'm gonna give myself to that.。
"I wanna be part of that.。
"I believe in this.。
"I wanna see this happening."。
And in order to be part of it。
and for this to be realized,。
we have to give ourselves to what God is doing.。
And there's a sacrifice in that.。
And that's how these things that God is doing,。
how he allows us to be part of what he's bringing about.。
And so in this season,。
there is great joy when we're gonna stumble。
across these things of the kingdom that God is doing,。
and there's also gonna be great joy。
because we're seeking it out and we see,。
wow, God is moving here,。
and I wanna be part of what God is doing there.。
And I think that's important。
because sometimes I feel like in church,。
it's like we're dreading,。
oh, we're being asked to sacrifice.。
I don't know if I wanna sacrifice.。
And I think the important part is God first。
shows you this amazing thing that he's doing.。
And there's great joy.。
It just stirs something within us.。
We're like, "Yes, I wanna be part of that.。
"I wanna see this thing happen."。
And that allows us to make the sacrifice。
because we see the beauty of the work of God.。
And so that's,。
there's this parable that kind of gives us a picture。
of how we need to enter and move。
into these uncharted waters.。
It's a season where we'll need to be both intentional。
seeking out the kingdom,。
but it's also, we need to also be ready。
to respond to these unexpected moves of God。
that we stumble across when they happen。
so we can say yes to them.。
And like these parables show, it takes decisive action.。
It doesn't just happen.。
Now, the Divine Church has a bold organizational practice.。
So we meet twice a month as a staff。
from One Shining Long together.。
And one of the things that people can do in the quarter。
is they can ask any question anonymously.。
Now, anonymously is always,。
you just don't know what you're gonna get, right?。
And there are tough questions,。
but it is really a way of opening a channel。
for truthful communication.。
And so early on in the church plan,。
one of the questions that was asked was,。
"What if the church plan fails?"。
And so then the question was given to me。
and then later to Ivan to address.。
And it was interesting because I was worried about things.。
I was worried, will we have enough people for a launch team?。
Will we figure out the location?。
So there was questions I was wondering about,。
but I didn't think of this church plan。
in terms of success and failure.。
But I'm glad the person asked the question。
because as we had a chance to think about it a little bit。
and then respond, it was really clear to me。
that God had moved, he had given us this envision,。
he had invited us into this work.。
And for me, failure would be not to respond。
to this thing that God is inviting us to do.。
For me, failure would be not to invest。
into the kingdom of God.。
And that would be failure.。
And so,。
so for me to fail is if the vine。
would never seek the planet church,。
reach the loss for the gospel of peace。
and hope or serve the vulnerable and marginalized.。
You know, for churches that just always play it safe,。
that never go for it,。
you know, we're missing out on what God wants to do.。
And so he gave us, he had us see this treasure,。
but then we had to give ourselves towards it。
to make it happen.。
And then whatever happens is up to him.。
We just need to be faithful in responding。
to what he asks us to do.。
And so this is what God is inviting us into.。
Now, I'm excited to invite up Ivan.。
He's gonna share with you something that we're sensing.。
So we have this theme of uncharted。
and he's gonna share with you a little bit,。
some of the things that are in his art.。
So Ivan, why don't you come up here?。
Let's welcome Ivan.。
(audience applauding)。
- Thank you, Pastor Tim.。
Yeah, let me share with you about a group of people。
in Hong Kong that lead us to take risks for.。
A group of people that are well setting out。
for into uncharted waters。
because the cost of staying in the harbor is too great.。
I would like to share a very interesting research。
about recent religions trends in Hong Kong.。
We can show the slide.。
A 2023 Peel Research Center,。
the report show that there are raised in religions,。
there is so that this affiliation。
in a wide spread trend in Hong Kong.。
You can see that we have 37% of people reporting。
they were raised in a religion。
but have left their childhood faith,。
which is the highest number in the whole Asia.。
Moreover, 30% of people,。
that are adult report that they were raised。
without a religion,。
while 61% currently identify as religiously unaffiliated.。
This representing a 31% of gain。
in people with no religions affiliation.。
The percentage of religiously unaffiliated。
grows even more dramatically among young adults age 18 to 34.。
You can see the number.。
74% they show that they are religiously unaffiliated.。
They are labeled as nones.。
That's mean they are loving in their religions.。
They're loving their low relationship with God, any God.。
This is a percentage showing that it is interesting enough。
to reflect the phenomenal with we have observed。
in the majority of local church in Hong Kong nowadays,。
especially for this group of age, younger generation.。
People have not only left the church,。
but also abandoned their faith.。
This group of young generation,。
they're not only just left their church in,。
stay in the church themself, the faith themself,。
but they left their faith.。
This is clearly a serious and critical situation。
for our younger generation.。
God led us to planet church in Yunnan two years ago.。
According to government data,。
Yunnan district is proceeded for continued growth,。
driven by new town development and strategic urban planning.。
The population of Yunnan in 2030,。
is projected to be 700,000.。
Can you imagine that?。
700,000 people in Yunnan district.。
With over 20%, which means more than 140,000。
being young adult age 18 to 34.。
Tim and I and Chairman, we are not in this group,。
so we can proudly to say that they're young generation.。
I saw that there's a lot of young generation。
among us as well.。
This demographic is a critical component of this growth.。
With chance, I indicated a preference。
for newer residential areas,。
offering more than amenities and affordability.。
Projection suggests that this district,。
Yunnan district, will continue to attract。
younger family and professionals.。
So maybe some of you, you may live in other district before,。
but you just move to this district。
because of different reason,。
but we can see that more and more young families。
and also young professional will come to this district。
and also we hope that we can really serve them.。
But where is this young people, spiritually?。
They are the missing piece of the church in Hong Kong,。
nowadays.。
They are the future of this city,。
but they cannot see the kingdom of God.。
They need a home, a spiritual home like us.。
What I want to emphasize is that we are in the best place,。
the best location, the best timing,。
the best moment to serve this group of younger generation.。
A spoken person from one of the biggest。
Hong Kong local research center told me that。
through their research, they found that the main reason。
why the younger generation left church,。
it's not about the context inside the church,。
it's not about the political stance,。
it's not about leadership issues.。
This younger generation left church。
is primarily because they couldn't see。
church making positive impact on this city.。
They couldn't see that this church,。
that religion as related to their lives.。
They couldn't see that the value of the church.。
So, church, this is time.。
This is the time for us as a church。
to humble now before God,。
to step up for our next generation, the younger generation,。
to let God be God of this city and his people,。
to lift up our voices and give up our own desires,。
to set ourselves aside for God。
and sacrifice all we have for his kingdom.。
This is a time for all people to praise。
and return the glory to God。
because God himself deserve all the glory, amen?。
There is a picture, that picture that totally facilitating me.。
Imagine there is a church,。
fully and faithfully investing in a group of younger people,。
loving them, caring them,。
like to encouraging them,。
empower them, discipling them,。
and also walk with them for all this,。
their journey to grow together.。
Imagine in the coming 20 years,。
there are 200 and 300 and 200 young people。
who have grown as big people.。
These people faithfully love their family.。
They wholeheartedly to serve the church。
and they impactfully, spiritually to impact this city.。
I believe that this city will definitely change。
with this group of people, they have been discipled, amen?。
Amen.。
So as a church like us,。
in this critical place, critical moment。
in Hong Kong, in this city, what shall we do?。
What shall we do this year?。
It doesn't mean that we need to serve。
like 140,000 people,。
but we believe that God has given us。
a specific calling to work for his kingdom.。
So let's welcome back like Pastor Tim。
to share what is our heart, what God put in our heart.。
- Thank you, Ivan, brilliant.。
Let's give him a hand.。
(audience applauding)。
Now, what might these uncharted waters look like for us?。
Well, the one thing that Ivan and I,。
and we did wrestle with this prayer fully。
for a very long time, but the one thing。
that we both, our spirits both jumped,。
is this young adults peace,。
where we just really sense God's heart。
for the young adults of the city。
and that we as a church need to step out,。
get uncomfortable and do something.。
And so in 2025, our heart is to plant。
a third Sunday service that is built。
on the foundation of young people.。
So we wanna get this young generation together。
and then from there launch a third service.。
And so we sense a strong call to invest。
in this next generation.。
Somebody has to do it.。
And we think we're positioned to do it.。
Now, going into uncharted territories,。
you know, it's not comfortable, it's not easy.。
It means getting out of our comfort zone.。
Like Ivan shared, there's, you know,。
the generation, a lot of the people。
in the generation feel like that.。
Like church doesn't matter.。
They don't see the relevance of faith。
and of God and of Jesus, you know,。
for their own lives and for the city.。
And so they just set it aside.。
And so our challenge is to find ways。
of showing and modeling, you know,。
that Jesus and following him and living for him,。
you know, is worth it.。
You know, that he does have an identity,。
a purpose for their lives and that it is beautiful。
and exciting and it is something worth。
giving themselves to.。
But for every generation, you have to find new ways。
of sharing this good news and of communicating this truth.。
And so there's gonna be some effort。
and some energy and some getting uncomfortable。
that will be needed for this uncharted work.。
But as I was preparing this, I just really had to sense,。
you know, someone got out of their comfort zone。
and got uncomfortable for your sake,。
to share the gospel with you.。
You know, somebody got uncomfortable for you.。
And so I just wondered, church,。
are we gonna be willing to be uncomfortable。
to share this beautiful gospel message?。
It's called, it's good news, right?。
Are we gonna be willing to be uncomfortable。
to share this good news with a generation。
that where many of them right now are nuns?。
But you just don't wanna affiliate。
with anything religious, let alone Jesus Christianity.。
So I think it's time for us to get uncomfortable,。
to go out, doesn't mean we have the answers。
of how to do all of this or how to do everything,。
but there's this call for us to go out.。
Now, how will we do it and what will also。
this third service look like?。
Well, in some sense, we don't know.。
We're called season uncharted.。
We have this one piece, young adults, third service,。
but how we're gonna get there, we don't know.。
And we actually wanted to also be careful。
not to put out strategies and plans.。
And I mean, we were involved in planting this church,。
so we have some ideas of what this could be like,。
but we felt that we needed to be careful。
and just hold our ideas loosely。
and just really be open for these things that God opens up.。
So we can say yes to them and follow the Holy Spirit's。
leading and not the old paths and the old ways,。
which maybe that's what God leads us on,。
but we go there because God leads us on,。
not because that's where past success was.。
So church, I'm so excited to step with you guys。
into this uncharted season.。
I do wanna share a little bit of what we can picture.。
We do picture, obviously, if you're a young adult here,。
we wanna talk to you and hear what is on your heart。
regarding your generation.。
You wanna just, yeah, just hear what you,。
what excites you about this vision.。
We can imagine getting you together。
like a young adults community,。
Sunday afternoons, or something like that.。
We can imagine running a young adults alpha。
that's specifically geared towards you.。
And so there's many things that we can imagine,。
but the only thing that's clear is young adults,。
third service, and then talking to you.。
So that's the starting point,。
and then we'll take it from there.。
Now, while that really is our big focus,。
in addition to that, I do wanna say that I believe。
that God will open up some opportunities this year as well。
that we cannot plan for, that we could not even know,。
but that he wants us to respond to.。
Maybe it's a third, maybe it's another mission partner,。
you know, an organization that we partner with。
and that we do incredible kingdom work in the city with.。
And so we also just wanna be ready for that as well.。
I just wanted to mention that.。
Now, I wanna invite the worship team to come up.。
So as we step into this uncharted season,。
there's gonna be things that we do not know yet。
about that God wants to do in and through us.。
But these things are only gonna happen, you know,。
if we are willing to go out,。
if we're willing to sail out on the boat。
in the uncharted waters.。
For me, it would be a pity if at the end of the year,。
we all never were uncomfortable for the kingdom's sake.。
You know, my heart is that we're willing to risk,。
to give God our all, you know,。
to make ourselves available to him。
for the things that he has for us.。
Now, this is not a time in Hong Kong's history。
for the church to be comfortable.。
There are so many young people who need to be impacted。
for the sake of the gospel.。
And if the church remains in this place of comfort,。
this will not happen.。
Come on, church.。
Let's do this, right?。
Yes.。
Now, because this is a time。
of calling us in the uncharted waters。
and being uncomfortable,。
I'm gonna do something。
that is a little bit uncomfortable for me,。
but I'm gonna do it anyhow,。
which is, you know, today is Vision Sunday.。
So we do ask that you give in response,。
you know, to this vision,。
to this thing that God has revealed to us,。
you know, for this year.。
And there is also a decisiveness that is needed in that.。
So I wanna invite you to prayerfully consider。
what God might be inviting you to give right now.。
You're giving as an investment in the future of Hong Kong,。
in the future generation of Hong Kong.。
Your giving today will allow us to respond。
to the moves of God.。
'Cause like we said,。
we don't know when this discovery's made.。
Sometimes we stumble across it,。
sometimes we find it because we're seeking it out.。
But when we do,。
we wanna be able to respond。
and give ourselves fully to it.。
And so one way that we're able to do that。
is also through finances,。
you know, that we can respond。
to the things that we come across.。
So we wanna invite you to give.。
We're asking you today to give above and beyond。
your normal ties,。
to give towards this vision.。
So we're inviting you now to make an investment in the city。
that you love,。
that you are planted in,。
through the church that you are in.。
And every amount that you give today,。
it counts, you know, it matters.。
And the beauty of it is,。
is that we get to do this together as a family.。
We all get to get behind this vision together.。
So I invite you right now to give.。
I'm gonna say a prayer。
and then Chapman's gonna come up.。
He's gonna share a few more words after that.。
So let me pray for us church.。
Why don't we stand up?。
Jesus, we thank you so much。
that you love every single person here in the city,。
that you long for them to know you.。
Jesus, we thank you how you've been so faithful to us,。
how you've brought us here。
and all this amazing work that you've done.。
And we give you praise.。
Lord, I pray that you give us courage。
to respond to the moves of your spirit.。
His courage to get out of our comfort zones.。
Then as your kingdom breaks in,。
as your reign reveals itself,。
as what you're doing becomes clear, Lord,。
I pray that you stir excitement in our heart。
where we can see, wow, that is beautiful.。
I can see this better future.。
I wanna be part of it.。
Lord, I pray that you give us courage。
to give ourselves to this work that you're doing。
throughout all of our being,。
through our serving, through our giving.。
And Lord, may you use it for your glory.。
May you be honored this year by us, your church.。
And so we thank you that you speak to us.。
We thank you for this journey that we're on with you.。
And I pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
You know, Church, just now I heard a little bit。
when Ivan included me in the not young anymore category.。
'Cause I felt I just left that age bracket,。
but that's the point.。
This is not just a vision for one particular age group.。
It's a vision for all of us,。
that no matter how old we are,。
no matter like in which life stage we're in,。
what background we came from,。
whether you're a parents or not,。
whether you're young or not,。
we can all participate in this vision.。
It's a vision for all of us.。
And so as a church leadership,。
we humbly come before you and share the word。
that God has impressed on our heart with you.。
And we humbly come before you and said,。
if you consider yourself part of this community,。
we do wanna invite you to invest in this vision together.。
Invest financially, invest prayerfully,。
with your time, with your strength, with your energy.。
If you decided to partner with us financially,。
there are a few ways you can do so.。
First of all, as usual,。
we have all the QR codes on the screen right now.。
If you give digitally,。
you can just scan one of these QR codes,。
whichever way it's convenient for you.。
Just want to highlight that to you,。
if you're using credit card or Octopus,。
when you open that giving page,。
you may see there are a few different categories.。
There is indeed one vision Sunday category,。
but that was for one choice.。
So if you wanna give to this vision,。
particularly in Yuen Long,。
you can continue to choose Yuen Long。
or Yuen Long general donation,。
you can choose that category.。
If you are giving by cash or check,。
and we do have an envelope on every chair in the room,。
you can pick that up, you can put it inside.。
We do have two boxes near the door,。
you can drop them off there.。
But I invite you, this is a vision for all of us.。
You can pray and ask God how He wants you。
to respond to that right now.。
So we're gonna have a time of worship.。
Nikki is gonna just gently sing over us,。
maybe use this time to think about,。
to pray and ask God,。
God, now this is a vision you have for the Vine Yuen Long.。
How would you want me to be a part of this,。
to be decisive, to join in this vision,。
to join in this next season。
where we're launching into the uncharted area.。
How do you want me to give?。
And so Holy Spirit,。
we just pray you would come and speak to us.。
We thank you that our vision of the church。
is not to grow a big service,。
not to grow just in numbers.。
We're here to grow big people,。
which means we're not just waiting。
for the third service to happen。
before we can reach out to these young generation.。
We're not waiting for pastors to stand on stage to preach。
or to lead a song so people's life could be changed.。
We're growing big people in this church.。
So if young people walk into this church,。
however, like whatever age we are,。
when we speak to them,。
they will be changed through a conversation。
with us, when they see Christ in us,。
when they join in a CG and they see how we love each other,。
how we pursue growth together.。
Father, we know that you would do something amazing,。
not just through Sundays,。
not just through services or events,。
but you're going to do it through each and every one of us。
in this community.。
And that's where sure.。
And so Father, we pray you would come and talk to us today.。
What do you have in store for this community,。
but also what you have in store for our lives?。
How do you want us to partner with you prayerfully,。
financially, spiritually, how we can give ourselves,。
how we can be like this,。
this people who sell everything to just pursue this treasure.。
How can we be a part of that?。
And so Holy Spirit,。
I just pray you would come and speak to us。
in the following moments.。
(soft music)。
Church, if you feel like you need time to prepare for that,。
you can ask God how he would want you to respond to this.。
I worship Tim,。
we'll just gently worship in the background as we do so.。
(soft music)。
[Music]。
