So there was this moment that happened for me on my recent walk of the Camino de Santiago。
in Spain that deeply reminds me of what we have just been singing about in that song.。
The Camino is around about 800 kilometers of length.。
You walk from this place called Saint Jean in France all the way to Santiago de Compostela。
in the west coast of Spain.。
And as you walk every day, you connect to and walk through and pass multiple Catholic。
churches.。
In fact, on any particular given day, you might walk through, say, three to five different。
villages and every single one of those villages will be centered around some form of church,。
this Catholic church.。
And some of those churches are incredibly beautiful, huge, wonderful buildings, like。
architectural wonders.。
Some of those churches are small, rural, almost forgotten churches where maybe inside there's。
nothing more than a couple of pews and a rusty old iron cross.。
And I used to love when I was walking the Camino to take every opportunity I could to。
connect with a church.。
If I was walking past a church, inevitably those churches would be open.。
And most of the time, they were open and no one was in there.。
And so I loved that because it meant that I could go in, have a time of solitude, maybe。
take my backpack off for 10 minutes and just sit there and pray and encounter the presence。
of God.。
These churches were like wonderful gifts of solitude as we walked every day.。
Well, on this particular day, I was walking into this small village and I noticed that。
there was a church that was off the trail.。
Now this was somewhat unusual because usually the Camino, the official trail, takes you。
to the center of a village or the center of a town and right up to the big church in the。
center of the town.。
But for whatever reason in this particular village, the Camino path was going straight。
ahead and avoiding the little church that was over to the left.。
And I saw it would take me maybe about five or seven minutes to walk over to that church。
and I had time and so I decided, "Okay, look, I'm going to go off the path.。
I'm going to go over there and I'm going to just have my time of solitude in this church."。
So I enter into this church.。
It's a small church.。
It's probably got about maybe, it could seat maybe 50 people in total.。
So a small kind of church.。
As I walk straight in, I'm the only person there or at least I thought I was, but as。
soon as I walk in, I hear this kind of like person get up from sitting down over on the。
right side and it's this old nun and she runs up to me with this big smile on her face and。
she's so excited that a pilgrim has entered the church.。
I could tell from her face that she's been waiting a long time for someone to come and。
visit her in her church.。
And she's got this big smile on her face and she literally runs up to me and she grabs。
my arms with her little hands and she starts speaking to me excitedly in Spanish.。
Now if you know me, you'll know I know nothing of Spanish at all, but in that moment I could。
see her enthusiasm and her joy that I had visited.。
So I didn't want to break her heart by telling her I didn't speak Spanish.。
So I just let her talk and as she talked, I followed her nonverbal cues as to pretend。
that I understood her.。
So if she smiled, I would be like, "Oh!"。
If she nodded, I would be like, "Hmm."。
And I basically was trying to pretend like, I think probably after a while she realized。
I couldn't speak Spanish, but anyway, she kept going and she was so enthusiastic, so。
excited.。
She grabbed me on the arm and she started to walk me through her church.。
Now again, it's not a particularly big church, but there were like paintings and icons all。
over this church as there often are in Catholic churches.。
And so she wanted to like show me and tell me in incredibly detailed Spanish all about。
these paintings and the icons.。
And so I'm polite and I'm nice and so I'm following her along and nodding at the right。
times and laughing at the right time.。
We get about halfway around and by this time we're standing at the front where the kind。
of nave of the church is and we're standing there and she's talking away and we hear somebody。
else enter the church.。
And so we both kind of turn and sure enough in the entrance of the church, another pilgrim。
walks in.。
Now, this pilgrim, you can tell he's a pilgrim because he's wearing his backpack and everything,。
looks like a pilgrim.。
He's probably in his late 50s, early 60s.。
And he comes in and he stands literally inside the entrance of the church and he starts to。
weep.。
Now this is not just like your standard kind of like a couple of tears, a little bit embarrassed,。
sort of, "Oh, I don't really mean to be crying here at the moment," kind of tears.。
This was like a wailing kind of mourning, kind of gnashing of teeth, kind of very loud。
sort of sobbing that this man was doing.。
The nun stares up at me and her eyes are filled with this beautiful picture of compassion。
and she leaves me straight away and I don't know if you have ever seen a nun run.。
But if you ever get the chance to see a nun run, I highly recommend it.。
She leaves me and she hitches up like the skirt of her habit and she runs down the center。
of the church to this man.。
She runs up to him and embraces him in this big hug.。
And then she gingerly and tenderly walks him and sits him down in one of the pews and she。
begins to pray for him.。
And there is this profound moment that something is happening in this little church that no。
one perhaps expected.。
And that moment of great compassion of hers and the running towards the one in need filled。
and stirred compassion in me.。
And I remember feeling to myself like I just came in here to connect with Jesus, but actually。
now is a chance for me to be pastoral.。
And so I walked, I didn't run, I walked down the church and I came up against the man and。
I just gently placed my hand on his shoulder and I began to pray.。
And the nun is praying fervently for him and he's loudly wailing and crying.。
And I didn't know anything about this man at that moment, but a few days later I discovered。
that he was a Portuguese man and he had been a homicide detective for 20 years.。
And he was walking the Camino just as he is retired, he's walking the Camino to purge。
the evil that he had seen out of himself over 20 years.。
And something happened in that moment where he walks into that church, the Holy Spirit。
meets with him and we have this profound encounter together.。
And as we're standing there praying over him, we're praying in human languages that are。
mixed and only partially understood, but we're also praying in a heart and emotional language。
that is clear and fully understood, perhaps more understood than any other language can。
be.。
And that's the universal language of unadulterated love.。
Love.。
I wonder if you've ever tried to describe love or try to find words to explain to somebody。
what love is.。
It's actually really hard, isn't it, to kind of use language to try to describe a factual。
or logical understanding of what love is.。
But when we're swept up in a moment of love, when love breaks through barriers and begins。
to do what only love can do, well, it lifts something in us as human beings, doesn't it?。
It creates something within us and it binds us together as humans like nothing ever can.。
There are three strangers who don't even speak the same language can find a deeper connection。
than in any other time.。
When love breaks through, humans become just the way they were created to be.。
It's interesting.。
I wonder if you've ever thought of love that way, that love actually makes us truly human,。
that the moments of pure love are our most natural and rawest moments as human beings.。
There's a lot of talk right now about AI and about the future of AI and particularly about。
the future of humanity swept up in this kind of formation and forming and shaping of what。
humanity will look like in the future because of AI.。
And I think there's a lot of things to be excited for with this development of AI, as。
well as perhaps some things for us to be cautious about.。
But here's one thing I do know.。
There is one thing that no matter how advanced AI may become, it will never be able to do.。
And that is the love.。
You see, I'm convinced that love is our unique contribution to the world that sets us apart。
as human beings who are made in the image of God.。
Isn't that a beautiful thought?。
That love might be the one thing that sets us apart.。
That love might be the unique thing that has been placed inside of us to help us to contribute。
something to this incredible creation that God has made.。
Could it be that love is able to do what no algorithm could ever predict or do?。
I've been in those moments, maybe you have too, where love immediately shifts a very。
difficult conversation.。
Where love brings new hope into what was thought to be a lost cause.。
Where love actually changes the dynamics of a relationship in a moment.。
Or perhaps where love actually bridges the divide of hatred or ignorance.。
When we are swept up in those moments of love, we know that the world can actually change.。
We know that those moments of love shift and change things in a way that, like I say, no。
computer can ever predict or ever do.。
And the reality is also in the reverse.。
You see, strip love from us and we become less than human.。
I would say we become programmable animals that are broken and controlled, but place。
love within us.。
And we become the very creatures that we had been created to be.。
Human beings filled with vision and imagination and passion and creativity and hope.。
And if this is who we've truly been created to be, and if love is the rawest and most。
natural form of our expression of what it means to be human, could it be, therefore,。
that as the world embraces more of an AI future, this is an opportunity for the world to actually。
become more in love with God?。
Because if it is love that is going to set us aside from the computers around us, then。
maybe we should be connecting into the source of that love more than ever.。
The Bible is very clear where that source comes from.。
It says God is love.。
It doesn't say God does love.。
It doesn't say God has this kind of, you know, sort of program to love things.。
It says the actual very nature and essence of who God is, is love.。
And because he is love, he has first loved us.。
And because he's first loved us, our love then is a response to the love that's been。
placed within us from him.。
And if it is love that makes us the most naturally human that we can possibly be, and if in an。
AI future we want to retain our humanity, then it follows, does it not, that we need。
to be connecting into the source of where that love comes from.。
I'm excited that the future that may well get more AI is an opportunity for the church。
to rise up and say, "Hey, there's one who is able to give us what no computer ever can."。
Love like that remains.。
Which is fascinating because although Paul, the apostle Paul, writing to the church in。
Corinth had no idea about AI whatsoever, he saw a church that was struggling to truly。
love.。
In fact, he saw a church that was actually fighting each other, a church that was actually。
treating each other incredibly poorly, and so he decides to write to them in the heart。
of his letter, chapters 12, 13, and 14 of 1 Corinthians, and talk to them about the。
attitudes and the behaviors and the ways in which they were expressing their humanity。
towards one another.。
And in chapter 12 and 14, he talks about some of the ways within their church community。
they were expressing their humanity through both their natural gifts and spiritual gifts.。
And right in between those two chapters in chapter 13, he actually begins to say to them,。
"But you need to understand that if you try to express your humanity without love, then。
you're not contributing anything to this world.。
No matter how great your gifts are, no matter how amazing the things that you might be doing。
are, if it's without love, it is nothing."。
And as he begins to explain this idea of love, he begins to challenge his church in this。
now but not yet time, this time of Advent in which they're living in.。
And we've been basing our Advent series here at the Vine over this past month in exactly。
this passage.。
I want to read it to you from 1 Corinthians 13, verses 8 onwards.。
We started the series with this.。
I want to finish the series with this.。
Starting in verse 8, he says this, "Love never fails.。
But where there are prophecies, they will cease.。
Where there are tongues, they will be stilled.。
Where there is knowledge, it will pass away.。
We know in part and we prophesy in part, but when perfection comes," talking about the。
end of all things, "the imperfect," this now but not yet time, "disappears.。
When I was a child, I taught like a child.。
I thought like a child.。
I responded like a child.。
But when I became a man, I put those childish ways behind me."。
You see, he's talking about this now but not yet.。
"Now we see but a poor reflection as in a mirror.。
Then we're going to see face to face when Christ returns.。
Now I know in part," he says, "but then I shall know fully even as right now I'm fully。
known."。
And now these three things remain right here in this now but not yet time, faith, hope,。
and love.。
But the greatest of these is love.。
I love how Paul is doing this and we've been unpacking this, haven't we, over the last。
couple of weeks here.。
He's talking about this now but not yet time.。
Christ has come in his first advent that we celebrate at Christmas.。
Christ is returning at the end of all things as a conquering king.。
And he's saying, "We live in this time where we don't have all the knowledge.。
We don't have everything worked out perfectly.。
We're living in a time where, yes, Christ has come, died for our sins and raised, but。
we're living in a time where sin still has an influence on us.。
And the culmination, the fulfillment of the redemptive story of Christ will only take。
place when he returns at the end of all things.。
And we live in this longing time, this maranatha, come Lord Jesus time.。
But he says, "God has not left us alone in the in-between.。
God has given us three things which helps us to navigate when we don't have all the。
answers, when we don't have it all worked out, when we are longing but we don't see。
the promises coming through.。
Three things, faith, hope, and love."。
And then he says, "The greatest of these is love."。
Which should raise an important question for you when you read this because it should ask。
or cause you to ask the question, "Why is love the greatest?"。
Because we've seen how important over the last couple of weeks faith is, how faith is。
essential to this time.。
And without faith we'd be lost.。
We've seen how hope motivates us and draws us out and makes us the people that we want。
to be.。
So we know how important faith and hope is.。
Why is love then the greatest?。
Well Paul gives a couple of answers.。
His partial answer comes at the start of verse eight.。
Let me read it to you again.。
He says, "Love never fails."。
Another way of saying this, actually translating the Greek a little bit better, is "Love never。
ends" or "Love never ceases."。
Which connects with what Paul is saying here because he says, "Look, love never ceases,。
but prophecy, that'll cease."。
All this knowledge that we have, yeah, that's going to cease.。
Even I would argue, Paul would say this, "Faith and hope, that will also cease, but the one。
thing that never ends, never ceases, and therefore never fails, is love."。
Think about this for a second, right?。
Faith is given to us.。
We've defined faith a couple of weeks ago from Hebrews chapter 11, where it says, "Faith。
is the confidence of what I hope for and the assurance of what is not yet seen."。
So faith is this idea that we have faith in order to get us to the point where Christ。
returns.。
We are longing for Him to come, and it is the idea that I am assured today of what I。
do not yet see.。
But when Christ comes again, as Paul says in these verses, he says, "Then we will see。
face to face."。
So we will see face to face.。
We no longer have to have faith in Him because the fullness of Him will be present with us.。
So faith will cease.。
Same with hope.。
See, hope we've defined last week as this confident expectation, this assurance of what's。
going to happen in the future because of our deep understanding of the goodness and the。
grace of God today.。
So we are longing for these promises of God to come in this here and now.。
But when He does return at the end of all things, all promises will be fulfilled.。
All promises will be there.。
There'll be no more death.。
There'll be no more pain.。
There'll be no more sin or even the possibility of sin.。
There's only one tree at that end of all things, other than the two trees that were there in。
Genesis.。
Everything, all the promises of God and the beauty of Shalom will all be ours.。
We won't need to hope anymore because the fullness of hope will be with us.。
Are you following this?。
But love, he says, is the greatest because love never ends.。
In other words, when Christ comes, our relationship will be fullness of love with Him and with。
others in that place for all eternity.。
That's the beauty of the Christian story.。
And because that's what we're getting, Paul is saying this is the reason why love is the。
greatest because faith and hope, as important as they are right now, they get us, if you。
will, to the place where He returns.。
But when He comes, they're no longer needed.。
But love will endure.。
Love will continue.。
Love will be what we will experience for eternity.。
It's a wonderful thing.。
But I want you to hear something else.。
He's saying love is the greatest, not just because it'll be the thing that we will have。
for all eternity.。
It's because we can experience the fullness of it now.。
We don't need to wait until we get there to experience it.。
It actually can be a part of our human story today.。
Now to understand what Paul is saying about that, we have to actually understand what。
he means by love when he uses the word love throughout the chapter 13 here in 1 Corinthians.。
You may know that in the Greek language in the first century, there were six words in。
the Greek language that we would translate into English as love.。
The two most popular in the first century was eros, which is kind of sexual or romantic。
love, and philia, which was like loyal friendship and kind of love that is happening between。
two committed friends.。
But there was this other word for love, one of the other six words, it's the word agape.。
You probably have heard this if you've been a Christian for some time.。
Agape is this idea of a love that was defined in the Greek culture as radical, sacrificial,。
selfless love.。
And when the church was thinking, what is the word for love from the Greek language。
that we're going to apply to our relationship with God and to who God is, it's this word。
agape that they chose.。
Now what's fascinating for us is that we often, when we think of agape love, I think in the。
church today, we most genuinely focus on God and God's love for us.。
We think God's love is agape, which is absolutely true.。
But Paul is wanting us to understand that it's not just an agape love that comes from。
him to us, but agape should also be the love that we give to one another.。
And that, my friends, changes everything.。
And I want to kind of unpack this by taking you quickly just to another passage outside。
of Paul.。
I want to take you to 1 John, starting in verse 4.。
I want you to listen to how the disciple John writes this.。
In verse 10 he says this.。
He says, "This is agape love.。
Not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son as an atoning sacrifice for。
our sins.。
So, dear friends, since God so loved us, agape-ed us, we ought to now agape one another.。
No one has ever seen God, but if we love one another, God lives in us and his love is made。
complete in us."。
I think this is really powerful because what he's kind of saying here is, here's what the。
ultimate picture of agape is.。
You want to know what agape is?。
This is what it is.。
It is this unadulterated, selfless, other-centered love.。
See, agape is when we give of ourself completely to sacrificing for somebody else's benefit.。
And John goes, "Okay, what's the best picture I can give you to understand what agape is?"。
"Oh, I know what it is.。
It's the cross of Jesus."。
How could it be anything else?。
You want to see the ultimate picture of what agape looks like?。
It's a God who so loved the world that he was willing to send his only Son into the。
darkness, into the brokenness, into the sin, into all the pain, come and be born as a helpless,。
defenseless child, grow up around a world tainted so deeply and marred so ugly with。
sin, go and be eventually killed on a Roman cross, essentially a torture device, in order。
that everyone else who would ever align in relationship and belief and faith in him would。
not ever perish to death, but know eternal life.。
The writer John is saying that's agape.。
It is completely sacrificial, completely selfless.。
It is other-centered love.。
It's the kind of love that would take an old Spanish nun who has never had a person visit。
her for weeks, who then shows that person around the church and is having a great time。
with that person, but when somebody turns up who is more in need, she is willing to。
let go of that one and run as fast as she can towards the person in need.。
That's agape.。
That's sacrificing everything else in order the other would flourish as God would desire。
them to.。
If I was to give you a definition of agape, here's how I would straightaway define it.。
Agape love is the overflow of our delight in God that joyfully cherishes and seeks the。
best interest of another even when it comes at great sacrifice to ourselves.。
I want you to hear what John says here.。
He says, "Here's the greatest example of agape love.。
It's the cross, but because we have the cross, because God has loved us like that, we now,"。
he says, "should love one another."。
He doesn't say we now should eros one another or philea one another.。
He says we should agape one another.。
In other words, the sacrifice seen on the cross should be the starting point for how。
we now love each other.。
And that if we could love each other in that way, we might actually begin to model and。
shape the future of this world to be a place that when Christ returns, we would come to。
see the fullness of that love fulfilled.。
This my friends is what Christmas is all about.。
The love of Christmas is agape love in its fullness.。
It is the decision that God made to give his son.。
And of course, the cross is going to happen later.。
But in that moment in Bethlehem, in that moment of calling Mary, this sacrificial love comes。
to us so that we would eventually know how it is that we should treat one another.。
Think of it this way.。
Jesus is God's expression of other-centered love, which comes at a high cost, the highest。
cost of one who gives up his life, gives something so that everyone else might receive.。
That's Christmas.。
That's what we're going to be celebrating on Wednesday.。
That should be driving everything we think about as we go through this season that we're。
celebrating right now.。
That Jesus is this representative of agape love, something given so that everybody else。
can receive.。
And if you look through the Christmas story, it's a story of agape love.。
I mean, think about Mary and Joseph who had to sacrifice their reputation and what everybody。
else thought of them and all the judgment everybody was making because they were unmarried。
and she was pregnant, but they were willing to sacrifice it in obedience to what God had。
called them to do, agape.。
Think about the shepherds, the shepherds who are called by the angels in the sky to leave。
behind over a year's worth of finances, their livelihood in the sheep, and leave them to。
wander off into the wilderness so that they could go to Bethlehem and meet the Savior.。
Agape love.。
The Magi who travel from afar, that's not where their love was found.。
Their love was found in the fact that they were willing to risk their own lives by disobeying。
what Herod had said and said, "Come back and let me know where Jesus is."。
When the Magi decided they were not going to return to let Herod know, they were putting。
their lives at central risk.。
Agape love.。
So when we think about Christmas, what we should be asking ourselves is, are we living。
this agape love?。
It's a challenging question and it's the question you have to have in mind when you read 1 Corinthians。
13.。
I want to take you actually to the beginning of the chapter.。
Now that you've got that context in mind, now that we understand a little bit more of。
what this love is that we're being called to, now we go back and we actually read what。
Paul is trying to teach to his church at the beginning of 1 Corinthians 13.。
And let me say this, it is not about marriage or weddings.。
You've heard this a lot of times and as I start to read this, you're immediately going。
to think of a wedding.。
Please do not.。
I want you to stay seated in the bigger picture of what I'm talking about.。
Does that make sense to you?。
Okay, let me read this to you.。
This is 1 Corinthians 13 starting in verse 1.。
If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am only a resounding。
gong or a clanging cymbal.。
If I have the gift of prophecy and can fathom all mysteries and all knowledge, if I have。
faith that can move mountains but not love, I am nothing.。
If I give all I possess to the poor and surrender my body to the flames, but have not love,。
I gain nothing.。
It's fascinating what Paul does here.。
He basically is talking to the current church about their natural and spiritual gifts.。
But I think we can broaden it to us to think about humanity and how we express our humanity.。
And he mentions three things in these three verses.。
In the first verse, he basically says, what if somebody was a really good speaker, a really。
good presenter, told a really great story, but if they did it without love, it's nothing.。
In the second one, he talks about wisdom and knowledge and prophecy and understanding.。
It's like he's saying, hey, if you had someone who did a great TED Talk and opened up a new。
way of thinking, gave you data to understand something, and you were like blown away by。
their intellect and their wonder and what they thought, but if they did that without。
love, it's nothing.。
Then in the third bucket, he says, what about you have someone who looks like they're loving,。
but they're not?。
In other words, they're giving away.。
They're giving away all their money.。
They're giving away all their time.。
They're loving in what looks like a sacrificial way, but they do it without sacrificial love.。
It is nothing.。
Which is Paul saying something very challenging to the church.。
He's saying, if you really want to be human, if you want to be the way that God has created。
you to be, you can do all of these things that on the surface appear great human things.。
Oh, the artist who tells an amazing story.。
Oh, the incredibly smart person who knows it all.。
Oh, the person who's so generous with everything.。
You can do all of those things, but if you do them without love, here's what happens.。
This is very important.。
He says, you are nothing.。
Notice, he does not say your gift is nothing.。
He doesn't say, hey, if you do all these great things without love, then the gift is worthless。
and nothing will happen.。
No, he says, you're worthless.。
You have gained nothing.。
You are nothing.。
I can get up here, and this challenges me deeply.。
I can get up here and do an amazing sermon and wow you with my oratory and tell you incredible。
stories about nuns in Spain.。
I can do all of this, and you can leave here going, that was a great message.。
Wow, God spoke to me and I learned something, which can happen, and I can do that without。
love and you can still go away being blessed, but I am nothing.。
This is the danger of what Paul's saying.。
He's saying we can have a world where it appears like there's all this great human wisdom,。
all this great human stuff, but when it's done without agape, when it's done without。
sacrificial, other-centered thinking, what it essentially will do is basically try to。
build yourself up rather than build anyone else up.。
See, I can preach the greatest sermon to you, but if I don't have love, I'm essentially。
trying to make myself great and not Christ great.。
If I do it without love, I'm not actually thinking about you.。
I'm thinking about me.。
I'm thinking about making sure this is the perfect sermon that you're going to love and。
you're going to go and tell all your friends and more people will come to the vine, because。
that's about me.。
It's about my church.。
It's about this stuff here.。
And Paul's saying, when you do that, you are nothing.。
And Paul's saying, I don't want you to be nothing.。
I want you to be something.。
I want you to be the very person that Christ has called you to be, who he's made you to。
be.。
And he's saying, do those things, yes, but do them from sacrificial, other-centered love.。
And when you love like that, oh, the world changes, he's saying.。
When you love like that, things shift and change.。
But when you fail as a human being to love agape ways, you will always end up imaging。
yourself to the world.。
You will always end up filling the earth with your glory.。
And you will basically fail to become the person that you were called to be.。
It's really important that you hear that.。
When we fail to live as human beings from a place of agape love, we image ourself to。
the world.。
We fill the earth with our glory and we fail to become the people that we were actually。
intended to be.。
And when that happens, that breaks the heart of God.。
Agape is this incredible thought that actually I was designed to give everything to you so。
that you would be the best that you can be, trusting that you're going to give everything。
to me so that I might become the best that I can be.。
And we do that because God has first loved us.。
We're not trying to love sacrificially in our own strength.。
We're not trying to love one another in our niceness and try to be a little bit better。
than others.。
No, I've received a sacrificial love that is founded in the cross of Christ.。
And out of the overflow of gratitude, out of the overflow of feeling that love and forgiveness。
of my sins for myself, I can now stand before others and want the very best for you without。
thinking what's the very best for me.。
This is radical because what Paul's essentially doing here is he's turning upside down common。
thinking about self-help and self-love.。
See this world is like, "Hey, you need some more self-love.。
Get on that retreat.。
Get away.。
Prioritize yourself.。
Put up more boundaries.。
Make sure you're better.。
Make sure that you've got your time.。
Make sure you're prioritizing you.。
Love your truth.。
Love yourself."。
And Paul's flipping it all upside down and he's saying, "You want to know where self-love。
is?。
It's found in other-centered love.。
You want to know how to flourish yourself best?。
Give yourself away.。
You want to know how to feel the best that you could ever feel?。
Love others like they're the center of your world.。
When you do that, something transcendent happens and you become fully alive.。
When a nun hitches up her habit and runs to a broken man, when I go over not understanding。
a word but lay a hand on his shoulder, not knowing anything about his story, I can feel。
the most alive that I have felt ever.。
When we truly agape in this world, we actually love ourselves."。
Which is a very beautiful, complicated, incredibly deep theological but also very practical thing.。
And it's this practical thing that Paul now turns to.。
Let me show you these words that he then speaks of and these are so famous to us but again,。
try to follow along with this new thinking we have about sacrificial love for the other's。
benefit.。
Love is patient.。
Love is kind.。
It does not envy.。
It does not boast.。
It is not proud.。
It is not rude.。
It is not self-seeking.。
It is not easily angered.。
It keeps no record of wrongs.。
Love does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth.。
It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres.。
It's really important you understand that what Paul's not doing here is trying to define。
love.。
Remember I said earlier at the start, it's hard for us to find the words that define love.。
He's not trying to define love here.。
What he's trying to say is you want to know what a world looks like when people agape。
one another.。
You want to know what it feels like for you when somebody agapes to you.。
You want to know what it feels like when you're able to give of someone else.。
It feels like this.。
But also you want to know what happens when we don't do those things from a place of love,。
when we don't find love as the driving factor to the way in which we serve and love one。
another.。
So it then feels and seems and acts like this.。
So he's not trying to define some like, you know, dictionary version of love.。
He's trying to paint a picture of how the world might be and give us the reason why。
the world isn't always like that.。
So he gives seven descriptors of positive outcomes and eight of negative.。
Look at this.。
What love is, patient, kind, truthful, protects, trusts, hopes, perseveres.。
But it isn't envious, boastful, proud, rude, self-seeking, angry, shameful, evil.。
What he's essentially saying is this.。
If you do all the great things you can do as a human being, whether that's great speaking。
or great knowledge or great generosity, but you do it without love, here's what you're。
putting out in the world.。
You're putting out envious, boastful, proud, rude, self-seeking, angry, shameful, and essentially。
evil.。
That's what you're shaping in the world.。
But when you love with agape in the way that Christ has loved you and demonstrates that。
love on the cross, well, here's what you put out in the world.。
You're patient.。
You have long suffering with those that don't always get it or kind of annoy you or kind。
of have hurt you.。
You have this kind, truthfulness to you.。
You protect, you trust, you hope, persevere.。
You want to do all these things for others in the world.。
And Paul's not saying, "Hey, don't do these things.。
Try and do these things."。
He's not saying, "Okay, the application of this sermon is just to try to be nicer this。
week."。
If you could try to be nicer, that would go along.。
That's not what Paul's trying to say to his church.。
It's not what I'm trying to say to you this morning.。
This is not about finding within yourself more niceness.。
This is about realizing that the love that we receive through the Holy Spirit, remember。
the fruit of the Holy Spirit, first of all, is love.。
The love that we receive through the Holy Spirit, which is other-centered and sacrificial。
to us, overflows within us and causes us to want to do anything other than these things.。
It causes us to want to serve and to love and be kind and be grateful.。
It's not about trying to be nicer so I'm on the right side of the equation.。
It's about asking the Holy Spirit to create a fruit of agape in me so that when a broken。
man walks into a church, I'm the first one to run rather than the none.。
Come on, church.。
I got such a thing.。
She had such a thing in her that when he stepped in, she went straight away and left me behind.。
It hurt.。
No, it didn't hurt.。
It didn't hurt.。
But I could tell the tour was over.。
But why wasn't I the first one to run?。
Where is this agape-ness with me?。
When I look at these lists, if I'm honest with you, I connect a little bit more on that。
side.。
I realize that so often my thinking is so self-centered and not other-centered.。
And I realize that if we could flip that around and begin to love in the only ways that Christ。
has loved us, which is always other-centered, never for his gain, but for ours, man, could。
you imagine what the world would be like if we could live like that?。
See, it's that kind of love that enables you to turn the other cheek.。
It's that kind of love that enables you to embrace an enemy.。
It's that kind of love that causes you to take your cloak off and give it to someone.。
It's that kind of love that actually asks you to repent of your sin.。
It's that kind of love that causes you to give to those who could never repay you.。
It's that kind of love that causes you to get on your knees and to pray for this world.。
It's that kind of love that is other-centered focus that changes it all.。
And it's really important that you understand that this is not a soft love.。
No.。
Agape love is not the kind of love that just kind of lies down and lets everything walk。
over it.。
It's not the kind of love that tolerates everything, that kind of allows everything to happen.。
It's not the kind of love that denies yourself nothing.。
No, this kind of love, as Paul describes, it rejoices with the truth.。
It does not delight, he says, with evil.。
So this is not a love that just basically says to the church, "Hey, just treat everybody。
how whatever and just everything goes and there's nothing bad in the world and don't。
be mean to..."。
Well, you shouldn't be mean to anyone.。
It's the kind of love that's not so soft and whimsical that it's like, "Hey, anything goes.。
Just live your life and it's cool.。
Be your truth."。
No.。
It's the kind of love that rejoices with truth of God, that rejoices with scripture and the。
promises of God, that actually understands that and doesn't delight in the distortions。
of those things, doesn't delight in evil but rejoices with the truth.。
It's the kind of love that actually causes us to say, "Hey, I love you doesn't mean I。
accept everything that comes out of your mouth, everything that you do.。
My love of you, my agape of you doesn't mean you can just act however you want against。
me."。
It's not like a soft love.。
It is a robust, beautiful, tough, run through the church towards the broken kind of love。
that stands for the truth of God's word even when that might come at a cost.。
Oh, a cost.。
Maybe agape love is sown more beautifully in cost than in anything else.。
When we're found in those moments, it changes everything for us.。
And I remember the great privilege I had of standing next to that man as he wept the horror。
of 20 years of being a homicide detective out of himself whilst he was being administered。
to by a nun, unadulterated agape love.。
The man just sat there for about half an hour after we prayed for him just on his own, just。
weeping and gently being ministered to.。
The nun took me to the side and as she went to the side, she reached into her habit and。
she pulled out this.。
She pulled out a pendant.。
This is the exact pendant that she pulled out.。
And in Spanish, she explained something about this pendant that I will never know.。
But apparently it was very important.。
And she placed it in my hand like this and she clasped her hand over my hand.。
And she said something in Spanish which I assume was, "I want you to take this to remember。
this moment of love."。
As I left the church, here's what God was saying to me.。
He was saying, "Andrew, I've placed pendants of love around your neck over the years that。
I'm calling you to take off and give to those around you.。
That's agape."。
And as I close our series on Advent, and as we prepare our hearts for Christmas on Wednesday,。
let me ask you the same thing.。
What pendants of love has Christ placed over you over the last number of years that you。
might now be able to remove and give outwardly towards the other?。
Do that and the greatest of these remains.。
Can we pray?。
Let's pray.。
Father, we are deeply grateful that you love with agape love, other-centered, sacrificial,。
loving in its fullness.。
Lord, we recognize that we have distorted such love and that it's not just the world。
that distorts it, but the church does at times too.。
And we recognize, Lord, that often we live in a lesser vision of love and that we act。
out a lesser vision of love.。
We recognize that so often we can be selfish, self-centered, that even in pretending to。
be loving, we're actually just looking after ourselves.。
Father, I pray for anyone here this morning where that might be part of their story, that。
they would have the courage today to bring that to you, that in your agape love we would,。
out of your kindness, be led to repentance.。
Lord, I recognize also that there's people in this room watching online in our overflow。
who have been hurt by broken love, who somebody else's brokenness of love has acted upon them。
in ways that has deeply hurt them.。
Father, I pray for anyone here where that's their story, and because of how broken love。
has impacted them, they have been loving brokenly themselves.。
Father, we do know that we are able to love because you first loved us, and I pray that。
if there's anyone in this room where that's a bit of their journey or a bit of their story。
right now, they've been broken and hurt by love, and they find that they're swept up。
in that story.。
I want to pray, Lord, that your Spirit, which you have poured out in this time, in this。
now but not yet time between your birth and your return, I pray that that Spirit and the。
fruit of that Spirit of love, pure, unadulterated, agape, sacrificial, selfless, other-scented。
love would fall on them, would come up and be birthed within them for your glory.。
Lord, I pray for families that have been torn apart by broken love.。
Father, I pray for husbands and wives in this room, those that are struggling to love, those。
that perhaps loved before but find themselves without it in this time, marriages that are。
strained and difficult.。
Lord, we don't downplay that.。
We don't brush over that.。
And Lord, we recognize that the only thing that heals that kind of brokenness is the。
kind of love that is seen on the cross of Christ, and a love that brings us once again。
to the most natural state of what it is to be human.。
Lord, I pray for marriages in this room that you would restore agape love in the name of。
Jesus.。
Lord, I pray for businesses and families.。
I pray for relationships that have been strained.。
Lord, we pray that we would be able to become a church that has received such agape love。
ourselves that we cannot but help to move out in that love for the glory of Christ,。
imaging you to the world and not ourselves.。
Lord, as we come to celebrate your birth on Wednesday, would it be this agapeness that。
would mark the Vine Church?。
Would it mark us in the days ahead, and would it mark us as we enter into 2025 and all the。
things that you have for us ahead?。
Would we love in the way that you truly called us to love?。
And we give you glory for this.。
In Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
Would you stand with me, and we're going to just respond together in a time of worship.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
[MUSIC]。
