This beautiful thing that we're doing here is we're singing this song about that your。
love is greater than anything I've ever tasted.。
Just earlier in the service, I saw a picture of somebody who had walked a long way to get。
to a restaurant.。
And they get to this restaurant and they sit down and they open the food menu on the table。
and they're really, really hungry.。
And they're so desiring to eat.。
And they open up this food menu and it's blank from start to finish.。
There's nothing on the menu at all.。
And I felt like that was speaking to some of us in this room where you've got this real。
hunger and this desire for maybe an answer from God.。
Maybe you've been praying for a while about something.。
Or maybe there's a circumstance or situation that you're dealing with in your life and。
you're looking for direction.。
You want an answer.。
You want to know what is the Holy Spirit calling you to do in that particular thing.。
And it feels like you're not getting any answer.。
It feels like there's a hunger in you for the next step, a hunger in you for the achievement。
of something maybe, for a dream, for a breakthrough in a relationship.。
But when you open the menu, it's just blank.。
There's nothing there at all.。
And there's a frustration in you.。
And then I saw in this picture, the waiter approached the table and the waiter says,。
"Would you like the wine menu?"。
And the person sitting there goes, "Sure."。
And the waiter gives the wine menu and he opens the wine menu and it's bottle after。
bottle after bottle of the best vintage wine that could ever be drunk.。
And I felt like the Holy Spirit was saying that for some of us in this room, like, we。
have this hunger for an answer and we're looking for the answer in a certain place.。
And yet actually the answer is a love that is greater than anything we've ever tasted.。
That maybe the thing that you're searching for in that menu, it's blank because that。
thing's never actually going to satisfy.。
It's never actually going to achieve the thing that you really want.。
And the Holy Spirit's handing you a menu that He's written.。
It's like the wine menu.。
The New Testament talks about the new wine of Christ.。
This new wine that has been poured out into new wineskin.。
That we can receive a refreshment from Him.。
Jesus does His first miracle at a wedding when the wine's run out.。
And He takes those six ceremonial jars and He fills them with water and He, when the。
master of the banquet tasted it, He said, "This is the best wine I've ever had.。
You saved the best for last."。
And I feel like Jesus is saying to some of us today, like, you've tried every other option,。
but guess what?。
The best thing is right here at the end.。
I'm going to give you the best thing.。
Some of you need to stop searching for what doesn't satisfy.。
Just open your heart to the new wine of the Holy Spirit.。
That will always satisfy.。
You'll never run dry.。
If that's for you today, I want to pray over us.。
Before we do anything else in this service, I want to speak that new wine of Jesus into。
you.。
If there's a question you're looking for, an answer you're desiring, there's some frustration。
there for you.。
I want to pray for you.。
If that's you, just open your hands where you are.。
We're all got our eyes closed.。
We're just doing this privately between us and God, but it's a way of saying, yeah, if。
you're watching online right now and this is speaking to you too, just open your hands。
wherever you are.。
And I want to pray, Lord, right now, here at the vine, both in this room and those that。
are watching online.。
Father, we pray that we are desiring this new wine.。
We've looked in the menu for long enough, staring at blank pages.。
We've looked for satisfaction in other things that are ultimately not Christ.。
We've desired to find answers within ourselves or within others.。
But Lord, it is you and only you that can satisfy.。
You are this new wine that has been poured out in the new covenants.。
And Lord, I want to pray for each person here, whether that's relevant or important for them。
this morning, that your new wine would come by the power of your Holy Spirit right now.。
That you would fill and anoint and appoint, Lord.。
That we would be like that firefly that Susanna saw in the darkness around us, holding out。
a light that is holding forth and holding fast to the gospel, Lord.。
Lord, we pray that you would pour out your wine on your dry and your weary people.。
It would be like an Ezekiel 39 moment, Lord, where the dry bones are brought together and。
your breath comes upon them and brings them to life.。
I pray that the wine of Jesus, the wine that never runs dry, the cup that always runs。
over would be upon you and through you and in you for his glory.。
And we pray this in Jesus' name, everyone says, amen.。
Amen.。
Awesome.。
Can we thank our worship team?。
Just amazing as always.。
So blessed by our worship.。
Have a seat, have a seat.。
My name is Andrew.。
I'm one of the drummers here at the Vine.。
It's great to be with you.。
I know if you're new, I'm relatively new, I'm Andrew, one of the pastors.。
And it's really nice to have you here.。
Welcome online.。
If you're tuning in with us, if you're just joining us, it's great to have you too with。
us.。
We're considering our series From the Heart today where we're really moving off the back。
of a sermon series through April and May into June called A Different Spirit.。
If you've been at the Vine for some time, for a season, you know we were doing that。
series on Numbers 13 and 14, looking at the spies that went into the promised land, asking。
the question, maybe it's a Caleb spirit that we need in this season and in this hour in。
Hong Kong with all the changes that we're facing, July 1 coming up this coming week,。
the one-year anniversary of really a significant change in our city.。
And we're all still wondering how do we live now and navigate now as Christians within。
this new context.。
And we've been saying that maybe there's this different spirit for us to carry in this new。
season.。
And the From the Heart series is really a chance for us to hear from some of our leaders。
that have been here at the Vine over many, many years, some of the founding pastors,。
some of the current leaders, and ask them a simple question.。
What's on your heart for the Vine?。
What's on your heart for us as Christians in Hong Kong in this hour?。
How we might begin to live out this different spirit that we feel the Holy Spirit is calling。
us to.。
And today I couldn't be more excited to invite up someone who's been a long-term mentor to。
me, a friend, a father in the spirit.。
Would you put your hands together as we welcome Tony Reid.。
Let's put our hands.。
Welcome, Tony.。
Have a seat, my friend.。
Welcome to my living room.。
Thank you.。
We have 400 people.。
Music background as well.。
Yeah, yeah.。
Do you like my drumming?。
That's good, isn't it?。
Very good.。
Anyway, it is a real privilege to have you with us today, Tony.。
We don't say that lightly.。
You've been a part of this church for 25-something years.。
It doesn't show, don't worry.。
But we are so grateful.。
And I recognize that there's probably a bunch of people maybe in this room, and particularly。
maybe those online as well, that don't know you as well.。
Maybe they're relatively new to the Vine in the last year or two.。
Maybe you could just tell us a bit, first of all, who you are, how you came to Hong。
Kong, your journey with this church.。
Thank you, Andrew.。
It's a great privilege to be able to be with you and to just speak to you today.。
Well, I arrived in Hong Kong in 1986 with my wife and three children.。
We've since adopted a young Chinese girl, so we have four children.。
But I came not as a pastor, I came as an engineer.。
And that has always been my training to earn my living.。
But all my life, I have been involved in the church.。
The church has been on my heart.。
I've done many, many jobs in different churches.。
So as I came to Hong Kong, what was on my heart was thinking about why was God bringing。
me here?。
What was that purpose?。
How could I serve in the church in some way?。
And so as we began looking around churches, we eventually ended up in Repulse Bay Baptist。
Church.。
I think you might be familiar with it.。
I was there.。
I was like 14.。
14, yeah.。
A while ago.。
I don't think I was your Sunday school teacher, but never mind.。
No, you weren't.。
And that church, of course, then evolved by a number of stages into the Vine Christian。
Fellowship and then the Vine Church itself.。
And that church had a certain character to it which attracted a number of people.。
And it grew and it was run by a group of about four or five elders who ran the church as。
a sort of lay ministry, all doing different jobs.。
And as the church grew, it became apparent that we really needed someone to be able to。
look after and to minister to the church, to be the pastor of the church.。
And so we advertised.。
And at the same time as that was going around, both John Snellgrove and myself really felt。
God speaking to us.。
And I felt speaking to my heart quite late in life that actually, Tony, yeah, perhaps。
you should be a bit brave and step up and maybe this is a role that you should take.。
And so we both put our names forward to the elders and said we both feel that God's calling。
us.。
What a choice.。
And so to their great credit, they appointed both of us.。
And I must say, I treasure the faith which those pastors put in both of us at that time.。
And yeah, as the church has grown and as we've seen all that's been happening in the Vine。
and just sensing that God had asked us to grow a next generation church, the realization。
of course dawned that we were not next generation pastors.。
So we better start looking for one.。
And very fortunately, there was this young man in the congregation who was a brilliant。
speaker and able to really express the heart of the Vine being with it from the beginning.。
And so it was our great privilege to be able to hand over that leadership to Andrew.。
And at the same time for us, a huge privilege to be able to still serve in the church.。
And so that's my story.。
You know, can we put our hands together just to honor this man?。
I just think it's amazing.。
There's not a lot of churches that would allow two people to be senior pastor at the same。
time.。
There's not a lot of people that would be able to be a senior pastor alongside of another。
equal senior pastor at the same time.。
And there's not a lot of people that would stick around at the church after they've handed。
it over and continue to cheer it on and to believe for its best.。
You know, the Vine is incredibly blessed with Tony and John Snellgrove.。
You're going to hear from John in a couple of weeks in this series.。
I think it's an amazing thing that we should never take for granted that God has done.。
It's passing through into the next generation.。
And I admire you guys.。
All right, I'm going to stop loving on you, baby.。
It's going to be a love fest for like 30 minutes, so we'll stop that.。
You and I have been talking quite a bit about this different spirit series.。
And you know, the role that Tony plays at the Vine is our justice advocate.。
So Tony has a role here to help keep me and the other pastors and the church up to kind。
of date with all the stuff that's happening in terms of justice, social justice, God's。
heart for justice, the social political context of Hong Kong in the city, and much of what。
you perhaps have heard during a different spirit series coming from my mouth has really。
been birthed out of conversations that Tony and I have had around what we're sensing the。
Holy Spirit is saying about Hong Kong and the social political context.。
And so that series was quite personal for both of us.。
And I know you wanted to share a few things.。
Yeah, I think it was.。
I think it's been really very significant for the church.。
You know, to me, this is not just been another series, another series, although, of course,。
all of these things are important for us.。
But I feel this is another chapter for the church.。
And I feel it's not only been significant for us.。
I think it's a significant word for the whole of the Church of Hong Kong, because it's allowed。
people to be able to reflect, not just to accept things that are happening around in。
a passive way, but to be able to, as you know, as Andrew has shown us how to live our lives。
with that different spirit.。
And so I think it's opened up for us a lot of possibilities, you know, thinking about。
the social and political circumstances that surround us and just appreciating and understanding。
what that means.。
Considering that in that context, what the gospel means for us today in those circumstances.。
And then lastly, I think, trying to work out what sort of community that we need to be。
in response to that.。
And I guess it's partly that that I want to talk about today.。
Well, so Tony and I have talked a lot about the gospel, and you might have heard in the。
different spirit series me talk a lot about the gospel and how this is a significant inflection。
point for the gospel.。
And one of the things that I think has really resonated for us as we've conversed is the。
idea of, well, what is the gospel?。
And perhaps we don't embrace or grasp the beauty and the power of the gospel as much。
as it was originally intended to be seen and grasped.。
So I know you want to share a few things around that.。
So tell us, what is it for you that's really buzzing about the gospel at this time?。
Yeah, well, I think the important thing is that because of these circumstances, we're。
forced to sort of re-evaluate the value, the importance, the centrality of the gospel to。
everything that we're doing.。
Because if we're going to live in this different spirit, then we've got to be able to have。
some solid ground, we've got to have some solid things in which we are basing our lives。
and living our lives as well.。
And of course, we're called to be disciples of Jesus.。
And so I think there is a challenge to us in this, a challenge to me to look again,。
to see what it was that Jesus was saying and how he was living, and how this affects the。
global church as well.。
And so I want to start by focusing on two imperatives that I think are important as。
foundations of how we view what our perspective of the gospel is about.。
And the first one really is understanding and appreciating the initiative of God to。
save the world from destruction.。
You know, put yourself in the place of God when he created the world, you know, and all。
this process, all of his love, hard work and creative process goes into creating this amazing。
place, this cosmos, this planet.。
And then thinking about all the possibilities of what that might mean in terms of the glory。
of this place.。
But then afterwards, when seeing things going downhill, seeing the sin, seeing all the destruction,。
seeing idolatry, seeing all the desperate things that were happening in the world, imagine。
what his heart must have been thinking about.。
And he must have thought, either I'm going to get rid of this and we'll start again.。
Let's do something different.。
Let's do something new.。
But God didn't do that.。
God was so intent.。
It was his imperative to save the world, to redeem it, to make out of the mess that we。
have made it something that would bring him glory.。
And of course, the key verses that we read in scripture that tell us about God's heart。
for this are really in John chapter 3, in the most well-known verses in the Bible.。
John chapter 3, verse 16.。
Let me read them to you again.。
It says, "For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only son, that whoever。
believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life.。
For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world。
through him.。
Whoever believes through him, or in him, is not condemned, but whoever does not believe。
stands condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of God's one and only。
son."。
And of course, normally when we read these verses, we think about the love of God, you。
know, in sending Jesus, but there's that little word "gave" that God gave his son.。
And in this giving, I think we get a sort of little picture into God's heart, a little。
sense of what God was doing here, that there is a sense of almost of desperation.。
You see, I don't think we see the risk.。
I don't think we see the commitment of God.。
I don't think we see the danger that was involved in what God was doing here in sending his。
son.。
I don't think we see the sort of drastic action that was required.。
And there is within this, I think, a reflection of God's, the necessity that he felt to save。
the world.。
That was imperative.。
That was his heart, and that he will go to any extent in order to redeem and save this。
world.。
And we also have to see the way God does this now.。
You know, he's not now condemning the world.。
He's not now thinking about destruction, but now we see a different face of God.。
We see the love of God.。
We see the embracing, the open arms of God, just like in that parable, that story of the。
lost son.。
We see the sacrifice and the love of God welcoming, embracing us, wanting us to have that relationship。
with him that would save us.。
I think what's really important for us to reflect on here is the reality of this dangerous。
gospel that in God giving, you know, we've made John 3, 16 such a bumper sticker, right?。
Like it's on the fridge magnet thing, and we kind of know that verse so well, and yet。
it actually contains this beautiful risk that you're talking about, this danger to it.。
And that risk really comes out in that second half of the verse, which I think is the second。
imperative you wanted to talk about, yeah?。
Yeah, it does certainly, because of course, you know, John 3, 16 goes on to John 3, 17,。
which says, "God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world."。
And so it's important for us to see Jesus' mission, not as a condemner, not as a judge,。
but Jesus was inviting us the opportunity to have this new relationship with him and。
with God.。
But there is a choice to be made.。
And this choice is significant.。
Whoever does not believe is self-condemned.。
And so we see the imperative of God, the urgency of God to save the world.。
There's a possibility that there may be an outcome that God does not want to see from。
him.。
And I think we see a great tension here.。
There is a tension between the immensity and the initiative and love of God on one hand,。
and on the uncertainty of the response on the other.。
And it's this tension that I see, which I find so interesting, that God is in a sense。
pleading with the world that he will do anything to save the world from itself, even to the。
extent of giving himself in this dangerous manner on the cross, this demonstration of。
God's love.。
You see, he's not commanding obedience, but he's inviting us a response of love, a response。
over which he has no control.。
You see, God places such high value on saving the world, redeeming the world, bringing about。
his creation to what he intended, that he will risk anything, even to the extent of。
sending his son, even to the extent of giving us the free will to choose whether we will。
follow him.。
And the interesting thing is that we are planted in the middle of that tension as well.。
I think it really is a tension.。
I think my daughter Mia, she's 10 years old, and for most of her life I've been commanding。
obedience from that little girl.。
And she's been giving it by and large.。
But she's now at the age where obviously she's wanting more independence.。
She's wanting to express life and love, and she's wanting to make decisions.。
And I want her to make good decisions and good independent decisions.。
And so there's this stage, isn't there, in parenting where you have to kind of like let。
your children go a little bit, and you have that anxiety and that will they agree, will。
they continue on and follow well, or will they make mistakes?。
And if they make mistakes, I have to let them do that, learn from that.。
But my love is so strong.。
And I kind of feel like that with Mia.。
Now that analogy breaks down between me and God, by the way.。
But in some ways that's what God does in giving his Son.。
He's giving us the kind of freedom to choose to respond to the invitation of grace or not。
to, and that's incredibly scary.。
It is scary.。
It is scary.。
And the fact that God has entrusted us with this gospel, you know, I think we have to。
somehow take stock of what he has given us because there is a tendency, I believe, for。
us to undervalue it.。
And maybe it's a challenge that we don't always see.。
And so we get used to and very comfortable with our Christianity.。
You know, we come to church on Sundays.。
We learn the stories of Jesus.。
We read the Bible.。
We understand everything that happens there and all the community that we get praying。
together and the support and encouragement and the amazing sermons that we listen to.。
And somehow if we're not careful, this can be so comfortable to us that we can tend to。
mold it to the shape of our own lives instead of necessarily perhaps seeing the challenge。
to us.。
And I think that we don't always tend to see the radical transformation that God has made。
in our lives.。
You know, that he's given us this new life, this new opportunity.。
He's changed who we are.。
And sometimes I feel for myself personally that, you know, have I really devalued, have。
I really honored and understood the value of that thing which God has taken such trouble。
to give and make available.。
And I like the way that the Apostle Paul talks about the gospel.。
You know, he doesn't talk about it as a message.。
He doesn't talk about it as, you know, an inspirational word or something that is important。
for us to hear.。
This is what he says about this gospel.。
He says, "I'm not ashamed of the gospel."。
Now that's a word for us, I think.。
"I'm not ashamed of the gospel," he says, "because it is the power of God to salvation."。
The power of God.。
And so what I think we don't so easily and always appreciate that what God has given。
us in the gospel is the power of God.。
It's a mighty thing.。
It's a powerful word.。
And we somehow, you know, think that we've got so little to offer and that we, you know,。
it's so difficult for us to do or we will not be able to do this thing right or live。
right.。
But I think we have to understand that within the gospel, there is the power of God.。
And you know, God is so mighty and so powerful and so for us.。
You know, the Bible calls him the Lion of Judah.。
And sometimes I feel that I denigrate him.。
I treat him more like my domesticated cat that sits on my lap, you know.。
And he's the power of God, and that's so important for us to understand.。
So the gospel is perhaps more radical than we think it might be.。
It's perhaps more dangerous.。
It perhaps invites us into understanding life in fresh and new ways, maybe more than we。
even appreciate.。
And I think there is this power in the gospel that, you know, when we think about what it。
is to live with a different spirit, I think it's this reliance and trust on the power。
of the gospel to be at work, not just in us and through us, but in our city and through。
our city.。
And this is, I think, what's really on your heart, Tony.。
My question out of that, though, would be how do you hold all of this together?。
What sort of metaphor, like how do you actually live out and deal with this kind of type of。
gospel?。
How do you remember it in your day-to-day lives?。
Well, to do this, I tend to think more about, and I have recently been thinking more about。
the gospel as the kingdom of God.。
You know, that when Jesus came, he said, "The kingdom of God is near you," and all of his。
teaching was about the kingdom of God.。
It's not just a message.。
It's not just something that is spoken, but it's a kingdom that we live in.。
And I think that there are a couple of things over the past 50 years or so within the sort。
of life and history of the church that have tended to, in some ways, limit the scope,。
the intensity, and the broadness of the gospel.。
I think one of those is the sort of traditional message that much of the church has spoken。
out that, you know, Jesus came to die on the cross, to save us for our sins so that we。
could go to heaven when we die.。
And of course, there is a central truth about that message.。
But when we just limit it to that, then we miss, I think, something of the broader, the。
grander aspect of the gospel or the kingdom of God that he spoke about.。
And another of the trends has been that we have, over the last 50 years, we've modernized。
the gospel, which is good.。
You know, we've realized that we've got to use new language.。
We've got to be able to speak and connect with many people in different ways.。
And I think this communication has been good, and it has made the reality of the gospel。
more real in people's lives.。
But at the same time, because it has been molded around us, there's a tendency for it。
to become more about me and my life rather than the kingdom of God.。
And so here is the result of this.。
We have a tendency to personalize and privatize the core emphasis of Christianity at the expense。
of a broader and richer understanding of its implications, really, on so many aspects of。
our life, our work, our community, and the government, and how we live together.。
I think this is really important, Church, that we kind of really wrestle with this idea。
because I think the reality is, you know, when we think about Jesus and we think about。
His involvement in preaching and teaching in Galilee and the starting of the spread。
of Christianity, when we look at Christ, we think He's, you know, it's tempting for us。
to think that He's just in the world to give a new moral philosophy, or He's kind of in。
the world to tell you how to live your life better and live it in a way that pleases God.。
That's not what Jesus is doing in the gospels.。
He's not trying to tickle your ears and help you to live slightly more morally good or。
ethically better.。
He's actually inaugurating a new reign of the power of God on earth.。
It's the kingdom of God.。
He's bringing that.。
That's what all of His teaching was about.。
It was all of His parables was about.。
He was trying to help people to understand, you're now living in a new time, a new age.。
The kingdom of God has come, and in Jesus' teaching, His death, and His resurrection,。
that kingdom of God is now here on earth, the now, but not yet.。
We strive and desire for the fullness of that kingdom to come as Jesus returns for a second。
time, but we live in this moment now where we are a part of this radical, dangerous,。
incredibly subversive, beautiful, hope-bringing story of a new kingdom, a new way of living,。
and that's really what the gospel is.。
It is, and we have to remember that all of this, Jesus' teaching and Jesus' life, was。
lived out in a very tense social and political situation.。
Sometimes we like to view Jesus' life like we read in our Sunday school books and our。
picture books of green hills and sunshine and rainbows and the nice words of Jesus,。
but really it wasn't like that at all.。
When Jesus came, there was really quite a tense situation that was there, that firstly,。
in the Jewish social background and political background that He lived in, there was a great。
divide between the rich and the poor and the wealthy.。
Those who had power were those who were able to exercise their authority.。
But many of the people that Jesus went to first were those who were marginalised, they。
were the poor, they were the people in the villages around who were in desperate need.。
So there was a sudden sense of repression that was going on at that time in Judea.。
The other thing I think we have to remember is that when Jesus was having conversations。
with the rabbis and the people around him, he was not just speaking to the religious。
people, he was talking to the political leaders at that time.。
Because society, the leaders constituted the Sanhedrin, which was like their sort of government,。
their parliament by which they made decisions for the city and for the people, how they。
would live.。
And then of course there was the temple worship itself, which again had great restrictions。
on how people lived and on people's lives as well.。
And we see that there is that sort of quite difficult socio-political situation in which。
Jesus lived.。
And then if you put on top of all of that the Roman Empire, the Romans who had conquered。
them, then you see that they were intent on maintaining peace and stability at any cost,。
including brutal suppression and crucifixion.。
And all around them the sign of their conquest was the thousands of people that they just。
crucified.。
And so there was this domination that was around them.。
And so when Jesus spoke about the kingdom of God, it was already in a more immediately。
tense situation than perhaps we tend to think about or appreciate when we read the Gospels.。
I think a lot of that social-political context is lost.。
It's assumed because it's written to people of that day and of that era.。
They didn't need to explain it.。
It was already a part of the fabric of how people lived their lives.。
And we have to keep it in mind when we read the stories of Jesus.。
There's a moment where Jesus heals, for example, on the Sabbath.。
And on one level it's an amazing story of the miracle transformative power of God, and。
that's often how we only think of it.。
But actually Jesus does it on the Sabbath because He's also making a message about the。
controlling kind of situation of the day and how all the laws had restricted actually the。
work of this kingdom of God.。
And a lot of people were going to miss the power of the kingdom, the true power, because。
they're more conscious of the structures than they were of actually the liberating power。
of God.。
His parable ministry was very much like this as well.。
Much of his teaching was designed to say something to the Pharisees, to the rabbis, to the rulers,。
the Jewish rulers and religious leaders of the day, to help them to begin to think differently。
about what this Messiah and this kingdom is going to be all about.。
Yeah, that's true.。
And later on, of course, as Christianity developed, you know, we mustn't make the mistake of thinking。
that Christianity developed in this neutral, very appealing environment that allowed it。
to spread and to work amongst people.。
We have to appreciate that there were restrictions.。
And the truth is this, that God nearly always reveals himself in times of trouble or starts。
something when there is hardship.。
And Christianity is often most vigorous when the circumstances are difficult.。
And this is an interesting thing that we need to take on board, I think perhaps in our own。
circumstances as well.。
So when Jesus spoke about the kingdom of God, the people who would have listened to him。
would have immediately started connecting the dots to that sort of environment that。
they lived in and not to the religious ones or piety.。
And the gospel, of course, would have resonated most strongly with those who were marginalized,。
those who were at the lower end of the socioeconomic spectrum, and with those who were outcasts。
and sinners.。
It was them that would have received the freeing message of the gospel.。
And so it's not long, you can imagine, before tension started developing within the Jewish。
society with what Jesus was preaching and teaching.。
And so I think the challenge for us today and the challenge for many people around the。
world is, are we prepared to live in this tension?。
How do we deal with this sort of tension where we have Christians in May conflicting with。
different voices, different pressures around the world?。
And I think the challenge for us also here in Hong Kong is how do we respond to this,。
the political, social and political situations that we live in here in Hong Kong?。
I think this is a real challenge that I think Tony's bringing from his heart today, which。
is around how serious are we going to take the gospel?。
First of all, do we understand the gospel in the right context, in the right framework?。
And then how serious are we actually going to take that gospel?。
Are we going to embrace it?。
And I know for you, you see that seriousness really sitting in two primary areas, one about。
how we actually live our lives and one about how we actually see ourselves.。
Can you tell us a little bit more about that?。
Yeah, it is.。
And I think that there's a key word here is that we have to reposition ourselves.。
I think we have to look at, recreate the sort of mental and spiritual maps of ourselves。
and realise that our primary allegiance is to Jesus.。
That if we are going to be able to make any sense of what's going on, if we're going to。
be able to respond or think about how we live in this environment, then we've got to understand。
that our allegiance is firstly to Jesus.。
And you know, it was God's imperative to save the world, but it's our imperative, I think,。
to maintain our strong allegiance to Jesus, that he takes first priority in any questions。
or calls of our loyalty or on the things that we do.。
And secondly, it's not just about allegiance, but it's also how we see ourselves, our identity.。
And this, of course, we understand and know that the core of our Christianity is that。
God has, there's been that new birth.。
We've been reborn into his kingdom.。
We have a new life.。
We have Jesus, but we have the blood of the kingdom running through our veins, those thoughts,。
that spiritual life that we have.。
And I think we need to take it a step further and think about our identity, that we are。
not just children of God.。
We have to know which tribe we belong to.。
We are Christians.。
That is our tribe.。
And it's interesting that this word, this identity that we so often use to describe。
and think about ourselves was not coined by the followers, the disciples of Jesus themselves。
at all.。
But it was a name that was given to the followers of Christ in Antioch because of the way they。
lived their lives.。
It was in contrast to the society that was around them, that people were pointing and。
seeing them because they were not living like everyone else.。
They could see that their allegiance was to Jesus.。
They could see that their identity as a people was different.。
And so they were a people who were living in contrast to the people around them.。
And so the church in Antioch were creating, if you like, an alternative society because。
they believed an alternative narrative to the one everyone else believed and because。
they worshipped a different Lord to the rest of their world.。
And this meant that they were doing crazy things like they were taking babies, caring。
for babies off the street that were abandoned.。
They were looking after their widows.。
They were feeding the poor.。
They were treating their slaves like they were their brothers and sisters.。
Now that may not seem like much to us, but in those times in the Greek or Roman world,。
that was just like, "Whoa, you're doing that?。
How can you possibly do that?"。
So they stood out in the society in which they lived.。
And so in a way, their life was like a sort of criticism of the politics and lifestyle。
of AD40.。
And because of that, they became known.。
You are the little Christs.。
You are the people who worship Christ.。
You are the people who worship different gods, different God to us.。
And I think this is going to be so important for us as we grapple with what Christianity。
is going to look like, not just here in Hong Kong, but around the world with all of the。
changes that we're seeing globally happen.。
And I want you to think strongly about where is your allegiance?。
I mean, seriously, like is Jesus Christ your primary allegiance?。
And what is that going to mean for you in the years ahead?。
And do you identify yourself primarily as a Christian more than anything else?。
In other words, like you don't identify yourself primarily as Chinese or primarily as English。
or primarily as American or any culture as great as cultures are.。
You don't primarily identify yourself as a certain political persuasion, whether you're。
yellow or blue.。
Though you don't primarily identify yourself in various ways, your primarily identity is。
a Christ follower, is Christian.。
And that becomes more important to you than anything else.。
And that drives who you are becoming in the world today.。
Fully committed to Christ, fully believing that you're a part of the tribe of God, this。
kingdom of God, you're a child of God.。
And that builds unity and strength and purpose amongst all the people around you.。
That's a different spirit, right?。
That's the gospel at work.。
And it's interesting that you speak of Antioch as an alternative society.。
One thing we're going to be doing in the second half of this year is a book study on Philippians.。
And we're going to be looking at primarily how the church in Philippi lived as an alternative。
society.。
Now, importantly, not in rebellion to everything around them.。
And it's really important you hear this.。
Not in rebellion.。
They weren't trying to be different to annoy the authorities.。
They were living as Christians, as Christ-like as they can, knowing that in doing that, their。
allegiance was now ultimately to Jesus.。
Knowing that in doing that, they're identifying themselves primarily as Christian before anything。
else.。
That brings them to helping those babies.。
It brings them to serving the poor.。
It brings them to living in a new way, to loving enemies and all these things.。
And in doing that, they create this alternative environment, this alternative society.。
Does that make sense to you guys?。
And I think that's the beauty of the gospel.。
And that's what we're going to look at in more detail in the second half of the year.。
Yeah.。
And really, this, I think, is such an exciting time, Church.。
I want to encourage every one of you to really try to think about and assess your own life.。
You know, try to challenge yourself.。
How do I live?。
And what's important to me in my life?。
And what are the things I should be doing?。
And how do I react?。
And how do I behave?。
And so this different spirit, as I said, I think is a new chapter that we're entering。
as a church.。
And so I really encourage you to follow what we are doing.。
Listen to these series and things that Andrew is preaching.。
They are really important to us.。
And so there's a lot of work to be done.。
There's a lot of work to be done, Church.。
And so together, I think, as we sort of recalibrate, reevaluate what it is God is calling us to。
do, then please join us in this adventure and this exciting journey that the church。
is on together.。
God bless you as you do that.。
Tony, you are awesome.。
Could we give Tony a round of applause?。
What a man.。
What a ledge.。
So grateful.。
I wonder whether we could all just stand together.。
And Tony, I'm going to invite you just to pray for us and pray much of what you've been。
sharing and speaking over us as we respond as a church.。
So why don't we just bow our heads and allow Tony to speak again.。
Thank you so much for all that you have brought us.。
Thank you so much for that imperative that you have set upon to save the world, to redeem。
it, to restore the amazing creation.。
And Lord, thank you so much for allowing us to be part of this through Jesus.。
Thank you for your saving grace.。
And Lord, as we step into that place now, help us, Lord God, to step up.。
We ask you, Lord, by your Holy Spirit to encourage us, to give us the strength.。
Lord, as we examine our own lives, we see the opportunities around us.。
Lord, that you would make us brave servants, brave bearers of your gospel, that as we bring。
the good news, you will pour your blessing and the power of your Spirit upon us.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
I want you just to take a moment.。
We're going to go into a time just to respond with the Holy Spirit.。
I wonder whether you just close your eyes on me again and just let's allow the Holy。
Spirit just to continue to speak.。
I think Tony shared some real wisdom with us today.。
And perhaps there is something for you to sit in here about your allegiance right now.。
Maybe you recognize that there is a split in your allegiance and that you're hearing。
Christ calling you back to the centrality of Him to be primary in your life.。
Maybe you're wrestling with that identity as what it means to be a Christian.。
Maybe being a Christ follower is kind of number eight or nine on your list of how you would。
speak about your identity and who you are.。
Maybe the Holy Spirit wants to just challenge you a little bit and speak to you a little。
bit about that and remind you of that thing that Paul wrote, "I am not ashamed of the。
gospel to be called a Christ follower."。
Perhaps for some of you it's to just remember the radical nature of God who would send His。
only Son so that we would be invited in grace to respond, not by being coerced or forced,。
but in freedom to choose Him and to choose Him and to choose Him.。
Perhaps you want to just honor Him and worship Him and glorify Him for making that choice。
today.。
Whatever it might be and how you are to respond, allow the Holy Spirit to lead you in this。
time.。
Amen.。
