Best Christmas video ever!。
Oh my gosh, I don't know about you, but I learned a lot about Christmas from that video.。
I'm glad that we finally settled the age old question of whether there were dinosaurs at。
Christmas.。
There were.。
We finally got proof that Jesus could fly as a child.。
That's a great thing.。
Apparently there's such a thing as bubble pop.。
Don't know what that is, but yeah.。
I love the fact that Jesus got jewelry on Christmas day.。
And not just jewelry, but pretty shiny jewelry.。
And perhaps my favorite of all, right at the end there when she's like, "There's a light!"。
Which actually is the only thing in that video that is true.。
There was, there was actually a light there on Christmas day.。
The Bible describes it actually as the glory of God that shone all around.。
In fact, I want to read to you the bit from the Christmas story where it speaks about。
that light coming and shining.。
It's right after Jesus has actually been born by Mary and Joseph there in the stable.。
And then right after that, the writer of the gospel of Luke, Luke writes this incredible。
thing.。
He says, verse 8 onwards in chapter 2, "And there were shepherds living out in the fields。
nearby keeping watch over their flocks at night.。
An angel of the Lord appeared to them and the glory," here's the light thing, "the glory。
of the Lord shone around them.。
And they were terrified.。
For the angel said to them, 'Do not be afraid for I bring you good news of great joy that。
will be for all the people.。
For today in the town of David, a Savior has been born to you.。
He is the Christ, the Lord, and this will be a sign to you.。
You will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger.'"。
I wonder if you've ever been in a situation where you simply do not belong.。
If you've been here at the Vine for a while, you'll know right at the beginning of this。
year I shared with you my years-long journey to try to get to silver status at Cafe Pacific.。
Do you remember that?。
And I told you that because the church purchases my travel tickets on Cafe, they purchase the。
cheapest ticket that they can find, which is a good thing because that means your tithes。
go a long way.。
Okay.。
So they, if they, to put it this way, if the church could put me in cargo class, okay,。
I would fly in cargo class.。
They buy me the cheapest ticket possible, which means it's really hard to like get the。
sector points to finally get up.。
A number of years ago, I was trying to get to silver and I finally got to silver, but。
I got to silver class just as COVID came and then I lost silver class.。
Well, at the end of this year, I am proud to announce to you that after flying a lot。
of Cafe during my sabbatical, I am now back on silver class in Cafe Pacific.。
Yes.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
I made it back.。
I was so excited.。
I became silver class in the middle of my sabbatical.。
And so I was really excited because I could finally go to the lounge.。
And I haven't been to the lounge for years.。
I could finally go to the lounge again.。
And I was, I was flying back from London to Hong Kong in September.。
And I thought I'm going to use my first lounge access.。
And so I showed up three hours early before the plane took off.。
Because I'm like, I'm going to maximize my lounge time.。
I remember going up to the little desk where you have to go and they have the cafe attendance。
behind the desk.。
And I whip out my silver card.。
I'm like, I'm here to join the lounge.。
You know, I gave them my little ticket thing and they checked it.。
Oh, yes, Mr. Gardner, we're glad that you're here today.。
You can come into the lounge.。
I'm like, oh, wonderful.。
They're like, just go down the corridor, turn to the right, you'll find the lounge.。
So I go down the corridor, I turn to the right, I open these doors and I come into the lounge.。
Now, I haven't been in a cafe lounge for many years.。
And I don't know what's happened to Cafe Pacific in all those years.。
But the lounge was the most amazing thing I've ever seen.。
Obviously, cafe has made a lot of money over the last number of years.。
But this lounge was the plushest lounge that I had ever seen in my life.。
I mean, everything was dripping with expense.。
It looked the most amazing thing.。
And the other thing that was interesting about it, there was only two other people in this。
lounge.。
I thought, wow, it must be really hard to get to silver these days.。
There's only two other people that qualified to get into this lounge.。
And as I walk in, it's funny because they're checking me out.。
They're looking at me.。
But you know when people check you out, but it's not in a good way, it's a bad way.。
And they're like checking me out and they're kind of looking me up and down.。
And so I sort of look at myself and I'm wearing jeans, like a baggy jumper.。
And they're kind of looking at me like, oh, that's kind of strange.。
And I'm like, that's a bit weird.。
Anyway, I find the noodle bar.。
There's a noodle bar in this lounge, right?。
And there's like this Chinese guy behind the noodle bar, and he's making the noodles right。
there.。
It's like the most amazing thing.。
I sit down at the noodle bar.。
Immediately, this woman shows up, immaculately dressed with a glass of champagne.。
She gives me a glass of champagne.。
Then she tells me, "Hey, whilst you're here, if you'd like a massage, maybe get a haircut,。
just let us know.。
We're here at your service."。
And I'm like, this is the most amazing thing ever.。
As I'm sitting there with my glass of champagne, just sipping the high life, another person。
walks into the lounge.。
It's this woman.。
She's wearing the most beautiful designer-styled pantsuit that I've ever seen.。
She's pulling like Gucci designer luggage.。
She looks amazing.。
And I'm beginning to pull all the threads together of my experience, and I'm beginning。
to realize, kind of empty, noodle bar, could get a massage, sipping on a glass of champagne,。
designer luggage.。
I suddenly realize I'm sitting in the first class lounge, where I should not be, because。
I only have silver status.。
And silver, let me tell you, does not get you into first class.。
And so I'm sitting in the first class lounge, thinking to myself, "Hang on a sec.。
I'm having an existential crisis all of a sudden, because I have a decision to make."。
The first decision is, "Nobody knows that I'm not supposed to be here.。
I could just pretend that I'm supposed to be here.。
I could just get away with pretending that I'm like really rich."。
And this is great, because there's like levels of richness.。
And I realized that I was like wearing jeans and a baggy jumper.。
But if you are like super rich, you become like scruffy rich.。
Have you ever noticed like the people who are really...。
Like if you're only medium rich, then you have to wear the designer stuff to prove to。
everybody that you're rich.。
But when you're rich rich, you can be scruffy rich.。
You're so rich, you don't need to show off.。
You're just wearing jeans and a jumper, because you're that rich.。
So I'm like, "I'm going to be scruffy rich.。
I'm going to pull this off."。
And I'm sitting there, so I'm like, "I could try to get away with this."。
The other side of the question was, "Well, maybe I should admit that I'm a pastor, and。
I live in Hong Kong, and I am not qualified to be where I am right now."。
So I'm having this existential kind of dilemma, and I'm thinking, "It's probably going to。
take me about the time to drink a glass of champagne to make this decision."。
So as I'm sitting there sipping on my champagne, I get this knock on the shoulder, "Mr. Gardner,。
we're terribly sorry, but you're not flying first class today.。
I'm afraid you're in the wrong lounge.。
If you come with us, we will take you to the right lounge that you're supposed to be in."。
And so, I kid you not, they pick me up, and I have a cafe attendant on my left, a cafe。
attendant on my right, and they walk me out of the lounge.。
And as they're walking me out of the lounge, everybody in the lounge is going, "Yeah, yeah,。
I knew, I knew, I knew.。
That's not scruffy rich, that's just scruffy."。
It hurts, right?。
It feels weird when you're in a place that you shouldn't be, right?。
If you're in a place where you feel like you don't belong, that's not a very comfortable。
place to be.。
It's kind of challenging.。
It feels like you're a bit of an outcast.。
It feels like you're doing something wrong.。
It feels like you're not where you should be, and that's an uncomfortable feeling for。
us as human beings.。
And that kind of feeling was exactly how Mary and Joseph felt at that first Christmas.。
They had been in Nazareth, a place where they were comfortable.。
Nazareth, where there was a friendship and a community group around them.。
Nazareth, where they worked.。
They were working class people in a working class town, and that was comfortable for them.。
But because of the census, they then had to go to Bethlehem.。
Now I don't know if you know much about this, but Nazareth, as described in Scripture, is。
like nothing good ever comes from there.。
That's like a bad place.。
Bethlehem, however, just being right next to Jerusalem, was actually much more affluent,。
much more a better place.。
Now, it turns out that Joseph had relatives there, distant relatives, and because this。
census was happening, they had to uproot themselves and go to where they felt like they didn't。
belong.。
And it must have been really uncomfortable for them to go like, "Okay, we're going to。
show up in this small kind of town of Bethlehem."。
That's a lot more upmarket than what we're used to, but it's okay, Joseph, because you。
got family there, and I guess the family are going to welcome us, and it'll be okay.。
And they show up at Bethlehem, and the family don't welcome them.。
In fact, all of Joseph's distant relatives want nothing to do with the fact that Mary。
is a pregnant teenage girl and is not married with Joseph, and the shame that would come。
on them if they accepted them into their family.。
So all the doors were shut for them in Bethlehem.。
And so what happens for Mary and Joseph is they actually end up having to give birth。
in this thing, what the Bible says is a stable, but actually what it was, and I've been to。
Bethlehem and I've visited some of these things.。
They're like underground caves that were located under the houses in Bethlehem where the animals。
would go to keep warm during the winter.。
And it's in one of these dark and damp caves that Mary gives birth to Jesus.。
And this feeling of kind of not belonging, of being an outcast, is the central part of。
this Christmas story.。
It's kind of the entry point, if you will, into understanding what's happening in that。
moment.。
And perhaps you're sitting here today and this resonates a little bit with you.。
Because perhaps you're sitting here and you're like, "I kind of get that because I feel like。
that a lot.。
I feel like I'm a little bit of an outsider, a little bit of an outcast.。
I feel like sometimes I feel like I don't belong."。
Maybe some of you here, it's in your workplace.。
You kind of feel like you don't really belong in your workplace.。
You're not even sure how you kind of got there and you're not performing and you're not keeping。
up with everybody around you and it feels like you're going to get fired at some point。
soon and it feels awkward to you.。
We can feel like this in our families even.。
Some of us feel like a bit of an outcast in our families.。
Maybe we didn't receive the embrace and love and welcome with our parents that we were。
hoping to feel.。
And so family feels a bit strange for us.。
Maybe it's just a relationship you're in.。
It can impact many of us in many different ways.。
Perhaps you're here today in this room or in the overflow or online or in some part。
of this building because somebody invited you to come to church on Christmas Day and。
you're feeling a little bit out of place here in this moment.。
Maybe you feel like this is not a comfortable place for you.。
Maybe this is the very first time you've ever been in church and you're not sure what to。
expect and there's weird videos about bubble pop.。
And you're unsure about how to center yourself into this experience.。
Maybe your parents invited you.。
You've been dragged here as a kid.。
Or maybe you're a kid who's invited your parents and you parents are here in this moment.。
And it's not fitting for you.。
It doesn't feel super comfortable.。
Well, if you feel any way like that, whether here in this moment or in any part of your。
human experience, well, that's really good news for you because Christmas is exactly。
for people who feel that way.。
Christmas was actually designed for the people who felt that way.。
And trust me, I often feel that way.。
Christmas is therefore for you and for me.。
If Christmas says anything, it says all of us are invited.。
All of us belong.。
That there are not some lounges and some VIP access that gets us in.。
You are in.。
You are welcomed in.。
In fact, this is what the passage here says.。
Let me read you verses 10 and 11 again.。
I love this.。
This is the angel speaking over shepherds to say, "But the angel said to them, 'Do not。
be afraid, for I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people.。
For today in the town of David, a Savior has been born to you.。
He is the Christ, the Lord.'"。
These are beautiful verses because what's basically happening here is that the angels have shown。
up to shepherds to announce the arrival of Jesus.。
These are the first human beings that have ever heard about a literal life-changing moment。
that has taken place.。
They're the first people to hear.。
Think about this.。
The shepherds are the first to hear.。
Now, if you know anything about shepherds in the first century, this was not a highly。
sought-after job.。
Being a shepherd was...you became a shepherd either because you've kind of been passed。
it down over generations in your family or because you could not get any other job.。
You would choose to be a shepherd because shepherds lived in the outside of society.。
They spent a nomadic experience largely wandering around the Judean wilderness.。
When I visited Israel a few years ago, I went to Bethlehem.。
I experienced all of the kind of birth side, but then I also went outside of Bethlehem。
to see where these fields would have been.。
And literally, you get just outside of Bethlehem in the West Bank and you're into this Judean。
wilderness area, and that's where they would have wandered with their sheep.。
So these are people that live on their own away from everyone else.。
And they're doing that, if you had chosen this in the first century, because you didn't。
fit in anywhere else.。
You probably weren't welcomed where you were.。
Maybe you'd done something that had put you on the outside of society, whatever it was,。
but you're a shepherd because you don't fit.。
You're an outcast.。
You're on the outside of everything.。
You feel like you don't belong in Bethlehem or Jerusalem or whatever place, and so you've。
chosen a profession that keeps you away from everyone.。
And it's the shepherds, these that are on the outside who feel they don't belong, that。
God decides to make that announcement.。
Not to kings, queens, not to the emperor of Rome, not to the high flying, not to those。
in first class, but to those that are about as far away from it as possible, which should。
blow your mind.。
That in choosing the shepherds to be the first to understand or hear about the birth of Jesus,。
God was making a bold and audacious claim.。
He was saying, "What's about to happen in the birth and the life and the death and resurrection。
of Jesus is for those that need it the most, for the outcasts, for the broken, for the。
lonely, for the lost, for people just like you and me."。
That's the beauty of Christmas, that this wasn't a message that went out to the high。
flyers, the ones who thought they had earned that good news.。
No, this came out to everybody.。
Notice actually what it says in the passage.。
The angels declare this, "Hey, there's good news of great joy."。
Notice what they say, "For all the people."。
That's a beautiful thing.。
They say it's for all the people.。
They don't say, "This is good news for some."。
They don't say, "This is good news for those that feel like they've earned that good news."。
They say, "Hey, this is the good news for those that feel like they're worthy of it。
or those that happen to kind of hear it."。
Now the angels say, "This is good news for all the people, for everyone.。
For no matter how you might feel right now, it is good news.。
No matter what you've done in your past, it is good news.。
No matter what you might be doing right here and now, it is good news.。
No matter how hopeful you are for your future, how scared about for your future, no matter。
how broken your past has been, no matter what you might be wrestling with right now, the。
beautiful thing of Christmas, it's for everyone.。
Everyone gets invited.。
Everyone gets swept up.。
It's not trying to say, "These are the special people and these ones aren't," which is a。
very important message for us Christians.。
Hear this, church.。
If you are a Christian here in this place, you need to hear this.。
So often I think we Christians become arrogant about Christmas.。
We think Christmas is for us.。
Oh, yeah.。
Christmas is my holiday.。
Christmas is a Christian holiday.。
Christmas is for us.。
We are the ones that know about Jesus.。
When we walk into that store and it's playing carols, we know that that's actually speaking。
about Jesus.。
This is our holiday.。
We feel good about our holiday.。
Are you with me?。
We don't want to admit this, but we like this.。
We have this sort of thought in our head that Christmas is only for Christian.。
And the beautiful thing about the Christmas story is that the angels say, "No, no, no.。
This is not just for a certain select group of people who think they're better than others.。
This is for everyone."。
Christmas is a story that even the worst people, the poorest people, the down and outs, the。
outcasts, the ones who are struggling to make ends meet, this is what Christmas is about.。
Christmas is good news for all of those people.。
And yes, it's also good news for those that are already in first class.。
It's good news for us all.。
Christmas is good news for the person who's recently divorced, who's struggling with the。
pain and the hurt of their divorce and wondering if they'll ever find love again.。
Christmas is for the some 4,000 children who are currently in institutional care in Hong。
Kong right now, wondering if they'll ever find forever families.。
Christmas is for the prostitute who just a few blocks from here is going to have to sell。
her body today in order to make ends meet.。
Christmas is for the banker who's worried about their future because of the stock market。
and wondering whether they're going to keep their job in the new year.。
Christmas is for the refugee and the asylum seeker who's here in Hong Kong struggling。
because the system in our city does not give them dignity, justice, or love.。
Christmas is for you.。
For you.。
No matter what your background, no matter what you've done, no matter how you feel about。
yourself, whether you feel like you should be in relationship with God or whether you've。
not thought about God for years and someone's dragged you to church today, whatever it might。
be, Christmas is also for you.。
This is good news for all the people.。
And what is that good news?。
Notice what it says here.。
It says, this is the angels again, it says, "For in the town of David," that's talking。
about Bethlehem, "a Savior has been born to you."。
I love this.。
See, the angels don't say, "Hey, a child has been born to you."。
They don't say, "A really good human being has been born to you."。
They don't say, "A good moral thinker has been born to you."。
Nor do they say, "A great philosopher or a great human rights advocate has been born to。
you."。
They use a very important word.。
They say, "A Savior has been born to you."。
This word Savior in the original text and it's linked to the Old Testament as well,。
the name basically means those who liberate or the one who liberates or delivers.。
And the question we should ask is, what is it that we need deliberation or deliverance。
from?。
What do we need to be saved from?。
The beautiful thing about the Christian story, what the scriptures present to us is that。
the human condition is one where we all know, don't we, whether you believe in God or not,。
we all know that inside of us there's the propensity at times to do things that we're。
not proud of, things that are not good or healthy, whether for us or for others.。
We've all experienced times where we've done broken things, wrong things, things that we're。
not proud of, things that we regret.。
We know that we have done things where we've hurt the people that we've loved.。
We know that sometimes our language or our actions or the decisions we make, later on。
we realize that that wasn't the best to bring a flourishing or a life for someone and that。
actually just brought more pain and hurt.。
We all have experienced that.。
That's the shared common human experience.。
The Bible speaks of that in this idea of sin or just brokenness.。
Now the human condition has this brokenness and we can't do anything ourselves to fix。
it.。
It's not like we can suddenly kind of like get better at just trying to be a nicer person。
or try to fix that.。
It's an ingrained, deeply part of who we are and we need someone outside of ourselves to。
come and to set things right.。
The wonder of the Christmas story is that this child that was born in that dark, damp,。
smelly place is a sign to us that he can be born in the darkness of us as well.。
It's a welcomed opportunity for us to realize that for all the people, for every single。
person who's struggling, who knows that they've done things that they're not proud of, they。
can receive a new relationship with God.。
That's the beauty of what this salvation is all about.。
It's not about just getting better as people.。
It's about being brought into a reconciled relationship with God.。
Jesus would grow up and in his life and his death and his resurrection, he would stand。
in the gap for us who are in this broken relationship with God and say, "If you believe in me,。
if you recognize what I've done and if you open your heart to me, I can provide that。
reconciliation through the work of the death on cross and the resurrection afterwards to。
be back in relationship with him."。
That's all that's meant in this idea of the word Savior.。
And the angels show up before Jesus has done anything.。
Right now he's just probably thinking of bubble pop, right?。
He's like a kid.。
He's a little defenseless, vulnerable child.。
But even before he's done anything, the angels declare, "This is the one that will save you.。
This is the one who can provide that reconciliation.。
And it's got nothing to do with how good you think you are or even how bad you might feel.。
It's a message and hope for you."。
And so on the other side, we should be thinking, "Well, how do I actually get back into this。
relationship with God?。
What is it that I can do to be in that reconciled relationship?"。
Well, unfortunately, it's got nothing to do with dinosaurs.。
It's got nothing to do with cheetahs and lions or bubble pop or anything like that.。
But it does have something to do with, "There is a light."。
This idea of light and grace, the idea that Jesus comes for us before we do anything,。
that in the grace of what he has done, we can respond to him.。
There's this beautiful passage in Titus.。
It's a book in the New Testament, Titus 2 verse 11.。
Let me read this to you.。
It says, "For the grace of God has appeared that offers salvation to all people."。
Grace for every single one of us.。
Grace means that you don't have to try to get better in order to meet with God.。
Grace means that you don't have to try to earn some favor or try to live a better life。
in order to be back in relationship with God.。
Grace means that everything for you to be back in relationship with him has already。
taken place.。
And we receive that grace through our open hearts of asking for him to forgive us and。
to move into relationship with him.。
That's the good news that is for all people.。
I don't know about you, but when I go to the airport, every single time I go to the airport,。
I pray for an upgrade.。
Anyone else do that?。
Come on Christians in the room.。
And maybe some non-Christians here too.。
Maybe you do it as well.。
We go to the airport, don't we?。
And I'm like, "Jesus, Lord Jesus, this may be the day.。
Oh, Lord, I love you so much and you've done so much for me.。
Oh, worship your holy name."。
Now, if I could just get an upgrade today and I go up to the desk, you know, and I'm。
trying to be smiley and happy and I kind of hand my passport over and, you know, my economy。
class airline ticket, and I kind of smile at them and I go, "Any chance of an upgrade。
today?"。
I pray that prayer a lot.。
Anyone else pray that prayer?。
Jesus has never answered that prayer in my life.。
I just want you to know, never answered that prayer.。
But here's one thing I do know.。
There is a prayer, right, you can do right now that will immediately give you the only。
upgrade that is ever needed.。
And that is your reconciled relationship with God.。
That changes everything.。
And that prayer, every single time it is prayed, reconciles us back to him, brings us into。
a place of salvation and grace.。
And that's an upgrade that is worth everything.。
And I wonder whether we might be able to pray for some of you today to receive that upgrade,。
a reconciled relationship with God.。
Would you just close your eyes and bow your heads and I want to pray for you.。
And if you've been listening to this message and this is connecting for you, maybe you。
do feel a little bit like you're an outsider, a little bit on the outskirts of things.。
Maybe you feel that way with your family or in your workplace or in relationships.。
Maybe you feel that way even being here in this church community and in this church.。
You've always felt like you don't fit in.。
You felt like you don't belong.。
Well, Christmas is good news for you.。
It's news for all people.。
And that great idea of a Savior coming to the world to be born for you, to die for you,。
to be raised from the dead for you, so that you might be in a reconciled relationship。
with God.。
That's the crux of what Christmas is all about.。
That's the wonder and the beauty of a child that was born on this day.。
Not just a moral philosopher, a Savior, the Son of God, Jesus Christ.。
And so whilst your eyes are closed and your heads bowed, this is a chance for you to pray。
a prayer that will align you in faith and hope and belief back into that relationship。
with God through Jesus.。
And we're going to pray this in a moment.。
And if you pray this prayer for the first time, I want to encourage you to do something,。
and that is to share with the person who brought you to church today.。
Or if you've come here on your own, and all our pastors are here around the building after。
the service, they're all wearing lanyards, we would love to connect with you and hear。
from you.。
Because we want to tell you that life in Jesus is not just a prayer that you pray, but it's。
a lifestyle that's then walked out.。
And we would love to help you begin your journey of walking out that lifestyle.。
And so you can share with the person who brought you, or meet with one of our pastors after。
the service.。
But as our eyes are closed, heads are bowed, we're all going to pray this prayer.。
If you're a Christian here, pray it out loud.。
And if you're wanting to pray this for the first time, pray it out loud as well.。
And as we do so, we join together in the recognition that a Savior came for all of us.。
So let's pray.。
Lord Jesus, okay, we're going to start again.。
And now you're going to pray louder, okay?。
Lord Jesus, I want to thank you for dying for me.。
Here on Christmas Day in 2024, I'm grateful that I can get to know you and have a relationship。
with you.。
I recognize that Christmas is for all people, and that includes me.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
I ask that you would forgive me for all of the things I've done that have hurt you, that。
have hurt myself, that have hurt others.。
And I thank you that you do forgive and bring me into new life.。
And I ask today that you would give me in this moment your Spirit, your presence.。
I ask for peace, for new life, and for your love to be known in me and through me.。
And I pray this in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
Can we put our hands together for anyone here who's prayed that prayer for the first time。
today?。
We're so grateful if you have.。
Talk to the people that brought you.。
Talk to us after the service.。
We'd love to hear more, and we'd love to invite you into a life journey of getting to know。
Jesus more and more.。
It's the one thing that is the most beautiful, powerful thing.。
I'm not going to promise that your life is suddenly going to be perfect, but I'm going。
to promise you that you will have a relationship with the one who created you, who can draw。
you into the flourishing of the way that He's always designed you to be.。
And there's no better way to live than that.。
Can we all stand together?。
And we're going to celebrate as we draw our service to a close.。
We're going to celebrate this incredible message that we have that is for all the people, and。
we're going to do so through song of worship.。
And as we do this, may I invite you to reflect on the goodness of God for Him in your life。
and for the joy that He's brought to you in 2024 as you prepare your hearts for all that's。
ahead.。
