Hey, today we're starting a new sermon series and we've titled this sermon series, "Longing。
for Healing."。
Now, I don't know if you've ever longed for healing.。
I certainly have.。
So I think this is going to be very significant for us.。
And so what we're going to do is we're going to look at Jesus and how it is in Jesus that。
we can find help, hope, healing, and wholeness.。
Now what's interesting is when we look at the gospel and the encounters of Jesus with。
people, a lot of times people bring the obvious thing, the obvious need for healing to Jesus.。
Maybe it's the physical healing.。
Maybe it's the demon that needs to be driven out.。
And in Jesus, you know, he heals.。
He loves doing that.。
But it doesn't just stop there.。
If we pay close attention, we can see that Jesus many times does a more holistic and。
a deeper healing in that person's life.。
A lot of times there's emotional healing.。
There's social healing, bringing people back into community that were in isolation.。
And so what we're going to do in this sermon series, we're going to look at these different。
ways that Jesus brings this healing to us.。
And we're going to look at what that means for us personally and how we can experience。
Jesus bring healing into our lives.。
Now I want to share with you the little bit of overview of where we're going to head.。
So we have seven weeks planned.。
I'm not going to talk through every title today.。
Our topic is "No Other Name."。
And so we're going to look at that in a little bit.。
But my heart for the sermon series is that we see that Jesus is healing.。
It's not just back then, but that Jesus wants to release and bring a healing to us here。
now.。
You know, he has the power to step in the areas where there's brokenness, where there's。
pain, where there's suffering, and to meet us in that, to provide the grace that we need,。
to maybe move forward, to provide the strength, to provide healing.。
So Jesus meets us in different ways, but he does meet us.。
And so that's what we're going to be doing in the sermon series.。
Now some of us here might be sitting here and you're like, "Well, Tim, that is great.。
But I'm actually feeling good.。
I'm actually feeling fantastic."。
Well, that's awesome.。
Praise God.。
And I genuinely mean that.。
Praise God that you are feeling awesome, that there's nothing obvious right now in your。
life that needs Jesus to meet you, to bring healing, and to touch your life.。
But I do want to challenge you with this.。
You know, as Christians, part of our discipleship journey is an ongoing healing journey.。
It's actually for every Christian.。
And the Bible talks about salvation in three different ways.。
I was saved, I am being saved, and I will be saved.。
So there's a past, a present, and a future way that scripture talks about this.。
So that means that even if we are Christians, we are still in the process of being made。
whole.。
Jesus is still at work in us.。
He's not finished with us.。
There's still things to be done.。
There's still areas where we need healing in our lives, where we need restoration, where。
we need wholeness, where we need to be well.。
And so I want to challenge you to be open to this holistic healing work of Jesus.。
And I want to encourage you to actually pray a prayer, to ask the Holy Spirit to reveal。
to you where He wants to do some healing and restoring work in your life.。
Maybe it's in your character.。
Maybe it's part of your history.。
Maybe there's a breakup that has just been painful and you're just hung up on and you're。
not able to move forward.。
Whatever it may be, but I want to encourage you to ask the Holy Spirit to reveal to you。
where He wants to do some healing work in your life.。
And whatever the Holy Spirit surfaces, it's always good.。
It's His timing.。
And we can, even though maybe it's not always easy when we go through a healing process,。
but He's gentle with us and He will lead us through to a better place to bring wholeness。
into our lives.。
So I actually want to encourage us right now to take just 30 seconds or a minute, just。
pray this prayer as we set off on this sermon series.。
So let's do that right now.。
Just you on your own.。
Yes, Holy Spirit, we, you know, every one of our lives, you know everything about us.。
The things that are well and that are awesome and that are good, but also where we're carrying。
shame and carrying brokenness and, or just hurt from the past that we can't even name.。
And Lord, we thank you that you are a healer, that you are rescued, that you are a savior.。
And we ask that in this time as you heard the prayers, as we just open our hearts and。
our lives to you, that you do your beautiful and healing work in us as a community.。
Now also thank you that you've given us each other to journey with each other in this,。
that we're not alone in that.。
I pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Now today our message is no other name.。
End of 2023, I was feeling pain that was keeping me up at night.。
So I'm laying in bed, I can't sleep.。
I don't know if you've had this where you shift around and it doesn't matter how you。
lay you're still not feeling good.。
So after a few nights like that, I was like, I think I need to go to the doctor.。
So I go to the GP, he asked me diagnostic questions.。
And then he concludes, he tells me, well, I believe you have something that is quite。
common among older men.。
I was like, thank you for letting me know that I'm getting older.。
So he ended up giving me antibiotics.。
I take them, I feel better.。
I think everything's okay.。
A month later, this pain comes back again, but this time a little bit worse.。
So I go to the specialist, they do CT scan, blood work.。
Again I get antibiotics, which seems to be the solution for everything.。
And I've started feeling better.。
But this time, literally just for a week, and then I take a turn for the worse.。
I'm in pain sitting, I'm in pain standing, I'm in pain laying.。
Doesn't matter, basically doesn't matter what I do, I'm in pain and not feeling good.。
Now a friend of mine who is knowledgeable about what the diagnosis was, so he encouraged。
me to walk.。
He's like, maybe if you walk, it will feel better.。
It's like walking, really?。
Is that really going to help?。
I was skeptical, I was like, yeah, I'll give it a try.。
So I go out for a walk.。
Now, one thing you might not know is I actually like walking.。
So a lot of times I go for an hour walk trying to be healthy or healthier, I should say.。
So I started walking, I mean, I can hardly walk.。
And after a few hundred meters, I was like, something is wrong, something's not right.。
So I go home to my wife, Chris.。
I tell her I need to go to the A&E room.。
Now I don't know if you've ever been in a place where you experience just pain, whether。
it's physical pain or emotional pain, where you're just longing, you're just longing to。
be well.。
I just want to be well, I don't want to feel this pain anymore, I want to be able to sleep,。
I want to be able to sit.。
I couldn't even tie my shoes, I couldn't even bend over to tie my shoes.。
I don't want to ask my wife to tie my shoes, Lord.。
So that's the place I was in.。
So I went to the A&E room, to make a long story short, they end up admitting me to the。
hospital, they do surgery, there was an immediate relief, and I'm actually still recovering。
right now.。
So recovering with a wound from the surgery, so that takes a while.。
But I know I'm not alone in this.。
That we all at one point or another, we long for healing.。
For me it was longing for physical healing.。
For you maybe it's emotional healing, mental healing, spiritual healing.。
Maybe we know we're not right with Jesus, and for whatever reason we just struggle to。
be in the right place with Jesus, and we just long for spiritual healing.。
And that sometimes we find ourselves in these places where we just cannot shake what is。
going on.。
We just cannot break out of it.。
There's nothing in our strength that we can do to feel better.。
We're at the end of our ropes.。
Now what do we do when we find ourselves in that place?。
Where can we find hope and help in our pain and in our suffering?。
Now that's the question that I want to explore with you.。
What do we do?。
Now in some sense I think you know the answer that I'm going to give.。
What answer am I going to give?。
Come to Jesus, of course.。
But I want to unpack that in a deeper way.。
I want to take a closer look with you at who Jesus is and who God's word says Jesus is.。
And so unpack that question with us.。
So we're going to look at one verse from Matthew, and then we're going to look at a passage。
from the book of Acts.。
So let's start with a passage from Matthew, and I want to set the context for that.。
So we're in the birth narrative of Jesus.。
Joseph realizes that Mary is pregnant, and he silently wants to divorce her.。
But then in a dream an angel appears to him and reveals to him that the child that Mary。
is carrying is conceived through the Holy Spirit.。
This is God's work.。
And so it encourages Joseph to keep the child.。
But then the angel gives further instructions.。
So this is the verse that we want to read.。
It's chapter 1, verse 21 in Matthew, and it says this.。
She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will。
save his people from their sins.。
Now, if you notice, there's a connection between the name Jesus and that he will save people。
from their sins.。
Now what is that connection?。
Well, let's look at what the name Jesus, where this comes from, and what the name Jesus actually。
means.。
The name Jesus is a Greek translation of the Hebrew Yeshua, which is a version of Joshua.。
In Joshua, the name means the Lord of salvation.。
The Lord saves.。
Yahweh saves.。
So we can say that it's like you're supposed to name him the Lord saves, for he will save。
people from their sins.。
So right up front, we're being told about who Jesus is, what his identity is, and what。
he is going to be doing.。
But there's more.。
The word that is used for save is sozo.。
And sozo is a word that has very far-reaching, a very broad range of meaning.。
Like the English doesn't fully capture it, or the word save doesn't fully capture it.。
It can mean to save, to rescue, to heal, rescue from disease.。
So I'm actually even, I was looking in the Greek dictionary, and I read like eight or。
nine different usage, and I was like, I'm not going to list 10 things here.。
But the gist of it is to save, to rescue, to heal.。
And so it says that Jesus will save, rescue, heal people from their sins.。
Now a lot of times, or we're quite familiar with that it says that Jesus will heal people。
from their sins.。
But this would have actually been surprising to the contemporaries of Jesus that this is。
said about the Messiah.。
That's actually not what they were expecting.。
They were expecting a different type of Messiah, and I want to explain that.。
What they were expecting, they experienced three large bondages.。
There was the bondage with Exodus in Egypt, which you can read about in the story of Exodus,。
in the book of Exodus.。
There was the bondage in Babylon.。
And then during Jesus' time, there was the bondage to the Romans.。
So there was oppression, Roman oppression.。
And so the contemporaries, they were expecting Jesus to come and to deliver them from that。
oppression of the Romans, or that a Messiah to come deliver them from the oppression of。
the Romans, and to set up the Davidic throne again.。
So that's what people were expecting.。
But in here, as it is announced who Jesus is, it says that he will save, that he will。
deliver, that he will heal people from their sins.。
So why does focus on sin?。
So I want to go with you and look at the biblical storyline.。
It can be broken down into four acts.。
You can break it down different ways.。
This is the simplest one.。
We have creation, fall, redemption, new creation.。
And if you want to understand why the focus is sin, we need to look at that bigger story.。
So at the beginning, God created this world.。
He created it good.。
Everything in it was good.。
He created Adam and Eve in the image of God, and it was very good.。
Now Adam and Eve, they got to enjoy God's presence, live in God's presence, walk, talk。
with God.。
But then something happens.。
They rebel against God.。
Instead of being under his loving rule, they give in to temptation, and sin enters the。
world.。
That's what we refer to as the fall.。
Now sin, the effect of sin is far more far-reaching than a lot of times when we make it.。
Sin has impacted every fabric of human life.。
It's our relationship with God, our relationship with each other as people, our relationship。
with creation, and even our relationship with ourselves.。
So sin touches every fabric of this world, and there's damage to everything.。
Now God didn't leave us in this damaged state, so he starts this process of redemption.。
And that's the story of Abraham, of Israel, and then ultimately of Jesus, who comes to。
bring healing and restoration to all these different ways that sin has broken down our。
lives.。
So it's a holistic salvation.。
It's a holistic healing.。
A lot of times when you talk about sin and Jesus dying for our sins and addressing sin,。
we focus on our relationship with God, that he restores our relationship with God, that。
he brings us into the family of God.。
And that is the central thing in Scripture.。
That is the central thing.。
But salvation is so much broader.。
It's not just that.。
He wants to bring healing to us emotionally, spiritually, physically, in every aspect,。
and then ultimately lead us to new creation where all of who we are, everything is brought。
to wholeness.。
There is no more pain.。
There is no more tears.。
There is no more suffering.。
And so what is being announced in this passage in Matthew is that Jesus has come to bring。
complete wholeness into our lives, physical, emotional, relational, and spiritual wholeness.。
So when we say that Jesus is healer, he brings healing and has the power to bring healing。
to every aspect of who we are.。
He cares about everything.。
And so we don't want to minimize that and play that down and make it smaller.。
Jesus' salvation is broad and wide and so much wider than we often imagine.。
So he cares about our broken relationships.。
He cares about brokenness inside of us.。
He cares about our character.。
He cares about injustices in this world.。
And he's working to bring wholeness to all of those things in life.。
And one day, this work will be completed.。
But right now in Jesus, the kingdom of God has broken into this world.。
This new creation, the saving work has broken into this world.。
And we as a church, we are a new community that God has formed where he reveals the saving。
and the healing work through us and the work he's doing in our lives.。
So Jesus' name, it means he's savior and he's healer.。
And it's so much broader than we often give Jesus credit for.。
So that's the passage in Matthew.。
I'm going to be shorter in the passage in Acts.。
Now set the context for the story in Acts.。
So Peter and John, this is after Pentecost and all of that.。
So they go up to the Jerusalem temple and they end up healing -- Peter ends up healing。
a lame man.。
And he can walk.。
Now this stirs up some excitement.。
And the authorities, they want to -- remember, they just crucified Jesus.。
So they don't want this movement to gain any momentum.。
They arrest them.。
They put them in jail.。
The next day, they come and they ask them to let them know by which name did you heal,。
do this healing.。
And so that's where we pick up the story.。
It's Acts chapter 4, verse 8.。
And it says -- it says this.。
Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, "Rulers and elders of the people,。
if we are being called to account today for an act of kindness shown to man who was lame。
and are being asked how he was healed, then know this, you and all the people of Israel.。
It is by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, but whom God raised from。
the dead, that this man stands before you healed.。
Jesus is the stone you builders rejected, which has become the cornerstone.。
Salvation is found in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given to mankind。
by which we must be saved."。
Now what I love about this passage is that nobody's denying this healing that has taken。
place.。
It was so obvious.。
Perhaps the authorities even saw it themselves.。
This guy had experienced a miraculous healing to his body, and nobody could deny it.。
And when the authority is asking, "By what power or what name did you do this?"。
Peter emphatically says, "It is in the name of Jesus that this man was healed, whom you。
crucified, but who was raised from the dead."。
He has the power to heal and to restore, and it's only in his name that there is salvation.。
It's only in his name that there's healing.。
Now here the word, you see it's highlighted healed and saved.。
It's again this word "sozo."。
It's actually the same word, but it's translated in one part as healed and the other one as。
saved.。
So again, Jesus' healing work is so much broader than we give Jesus credit to.。
And then the phrase in verse 12, "No other name under heaven given to mankind by which。
we must be saved."。
It's actually a radical statement because what Peter is saying through this is that。
the temple is obsolete, that the authorities that he's talking to, that healing is not。
found in them because Jesus has fulfilled the temple.。
He has created now the body of Christ as a new temple filled with a spirit.。
And so if you want healing, if you want salvation, you cannot bypass Jesus.。
So like I said, this is a radical statement, this conversation with the authorities, what。
he's saying, even what he's saying about them crucifying them and everything.。
So he's speaking very plainly but truthfully.。
So we see that both in Matthew and in Acts, that answers the question, when we have pain,。
when we have suffering, what do we do?。
Where do we go?。
And it says that salvation, that healing is found in no one else but Jesus.。
It's found in no one else but Jesus.。
What I, initially when I was looking at this passage, I was like, "Am I going to talk about。
the apologetics, you know, why that is?"。
But actually Peter just bears witness to this.。
This is what Jesus has done.。
And so what I want to do is I actually just want to share my testimony.。
I want to share how Jesus has met me in pain, in my own personal darkness and suffering,。
and how no one else could help me, not the people around me that loved me, not my family.。
Now they were helpful.。
I don't want to say they were not helpful, but healing was only found in Jesus.。
And I did ask my wife, Chris, for permission to share the story.。
I always ask her before I talk about this.。
I haven't talked to you guys about this.。
I've talked to Manchai about this previously.。
I've alluded to it here.。
I was married before.。
And in my first, my first wife, she came to me one day and she told me that she was not。
feeling good about our marriage.。
She also told me that she wasn't feeling good about me being a pastor.。
So this was in 2017.。
And so I started the process of stepping down from being a senior pastor of a small church.。
And of course, this takes a little time.。
So this was a three-month process.。
The last, the Saturday before my last Sunday, where my last time I'm preaching, farewell。
party, all of that, she tells me she needs to talk to me.。
But she only wants to talk to me with a therapist.。
I was like, okay.。
So we, she finds a therapist online.。
We go and talk to a therapist and she tells me that she doesn't want to be with me.。
She doesn't want to talk to me.。
And she wants to separate from me.。
And that she only wants to talk to me with a therapist.。
And I was caught off guard.。
Now obviously I knew that our marriage was not doing well.。
But this caught me off guard.。
So at this time, I'm, you know, I'm stepping down from the job that I love.。
So I'm losing my job.。
We had sold our house.。
We were going to move in a new apartment.。
Now she was moving into apartment.。
I didn't have anywhere to go.。
So I lost my house.。
And it looked like I'm also losing my marriage.。
And so we went through the, we went through the meeting with a therapist for three months.。
And then she concluded, you know, that there was no hope for us and ended up fighting for。
a divorce.。
And you know, as a pastor, I helped other people see marriages restored.。
But I, but I couldn't do this for myself.。
And there was so much shame in that.。
You know, when your life, what you believe is right and everything, when it breaks down.。
And I felt powerless.。
It was nothing that I knew how to do or what I was able to do.。
And I felt acted upon.。
And I also, this was, this was very traumatic for me.。
Because I didn't see it coming.。
I lost my job, my wife, my home.。
And so I really didn't know what to do.。
You know, what do you do?。
So I ended up, well, for one, I ended up taking a job and I had a finance background.。
So I went the mortgage industry, which I couldn't stand.。
I'm like, every day, I'm like, I don't like this.。
I love being a pastor.。
Why am I doing this?。
But I really was, I really felt like I don't know how to move forward.。
And I had no hope for the future.。
Like I couldn't anticipate something good happen.。
And I really said, Lord, if, you know, if you want to take me, take me.。
I don't care if I live anymore or not.。
And so, I mean, I was just broken.。
I had nothing.。
I didn't know what to do.。
And nobody, like I said, my family, they loved me, but they couldn't help.。
But in this time, I went to church.。
I went to other churches.。
But then after two months of doing that, I asked the pastor that took over if he minded。
if I come back to the church I was before.。
Because that's where all my friendships were.。
And it was, of course, embarrassing to go back to the church and people asking about。
your relationship.。
And, you know, there was a lot of shame.。
But I was like, I don't know what else to do.。
So I went back there.。
And it was hard.。
And then on one Sunday, during worship, this is the part I've told before, Jesus had a。
word for me.。
And he said, I'm not finished with you yet.。
I felt like he had finished with me.。
I felt like my life was over.。
And I didn't realize it at the time, but those words were healing words, you know, that Jesus。
spoke over me because he released faith and courage that I did not have.。
Oh, apparently I need this.。
Thanks, Deborah.。
And then if Jesus is okay with me, well, then I must be okay.。
And if Jesus is okay with me, then perhaps maybe I can be a pastor one day again.。
And if Jesus is not finished with me, you know, I can be one day whole again.。
And so I actually when I heard those words, I went outside and I was just sobbing and。
it was healing.。
So then to make a long, honestly, there's so many details in all of this, but to make。
a longer story short, you know, I ended up being hired by the Vine.。
These words of Jesus were the beginning of healing.。
This was a turning point.。
This healing journey has continued.。
I have had a lot of anxiety and fear and felt rejection and abandonment because when somebody。
leaves you, you wonder, is there something wrong with me?。
Am I not lovable?。
You know, what makes somebody leave you?。
And so I felt these feelings in a lot of relationships and with coworkers and things.。
If anything shifted, I started feeling anxiety.。
I started feeling physical pain.。
And but Jesus has brought healing.。
And I have to give credit to the Vine and to Pastor Andrew.。
Like I mean, I was obviously very open in my interview about all these things.。
And I was not functioning well when they hired me.。
I was like at 65% or something.。
Every Sunday I was crying and weeping.。
And so at one time he came and he had a prophetic work on top of me already crying.。
And then I even just lost it.。
This was after three months of being in the church.。
And then I saw him the next week and I went to him and was like, Andrew, I'm so sorry。
that I keep losing it.。
You know, I keep totally I mean, I'm not even able to minister to any people on a Sunday.。
You know, I'm just a mess.。
And he told me, Tim, why do you need to be sorry?。
It's a beautiful thing that you allow yourself to be ministered to by the Holy Spirit.。
I was like, wow, what kind of church is this?。
I can tell you if I would be at another church, I can do that once, maybe twice.。
But at the third time, the pastor would tell me to get my act together or to leave.。
You know, now I also want to give you know, part of my healing journey, of course, was。
also meeting Chris, my wife, having my daughter Ellie.。
And so God really turned my life around being being part of this church plant.。
I mean, I thought I had lost everything.。
And God has restored all these things in such a short period of time.。
And for me, and I don't know why I'm sharing this thought, but I felt like I should share。
this.。
So I think this is for someone.。
I was thinking of Ellie.。
I was like, God always knew that Ellie would exist.。
And you know, that just really has touched me that God always knew that she would exist,。
that she has a purpose and he loves her.。
So anyhow, like I usually if you're here for the first time, I usually cry like this.。
Since we're talking about healing and longing for healing.。
So for me, it's important that we are a church, that we have a church culture where we can。
share our brokenness, where we can bring our full selves into this community and where。
we can share.。
It doesn't matter if that's a, you know, what it is a smaller, a big thing.。
But if we just come and pretend we're all doing great, and we're all these amazing Christians。
with no problems and no issues, no need for healing.。
And we're going to miss out on what Jesus wants to do in our lives.。
I don't want to miss it.。
And so I wanted to give Jesus glory.。
I want to praise Jesus for his work in my life.。
And I want to ask the worship team to actually come up right now.。
And I want to say if Jesus has done this in my life, how he has met me in brokenness and。
emotional pain and darkness, you know, has brought healing.。
I know that he can also do that in your life.。
I know he can do it in your life.。
And so what I want to encourage you right now, so one thing we do a lot of times as。
divine churches, we actually have a time of prayer.。
And so if you, if there's something that you need, you know, you need healing from, where。
you want Jesus to touch you or to speak over your life and to just start this process of。
restoring you, of bringing wholeness, of making you well.。
It doesn't matter if it's emotional, physically, spiritually.。
I want to encourage you to just stretch out your hands before you.。
Then when you stretch out your hands before you, I want to encourage others around you。
just to come and just to pray for you, just to pray over you.。
And I know this takes courage, but I want to encourage you to do it.。
You know, Jesus is not finished with you yet.。
Jesus is not finished with you if you're struggling with pornography addiction.。
He's not finished with you yet.。
Jesus is not finished if your marriage is struggling.。
He's not finished with you yet.。
You know, whatever is going on, Jesus is not finished.。
So just stretch out your hands.。
And I just want to encourage people around you to pray.。
So we're going to take a few minutes to pray, and then I'll close in our prayers.。
Let's do this right now.。
Thank you.。
So if you see someone with their hands stretched out, please go to them and pray for them.。
Don't let somebody just sit there with their hands stretched out.。
Okay?。
Thank you.。
Can we turn my microphone off for this part, please?。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
stand up and--。
