Yeah, it's great to see you all be here.。
I want to take you back to my teenage years.。
So when I was a teenager, I had the opportunity to try out for my state basketball team.。
Now in Germany, there are 16 states, and if you make it on the state basketball team,。
they invest in your development.。
So it really is a track to be successful and to be seen, to be noticed.。
Also, you get to compete against the best of the best in Germany.。
And so there's, I don't remember how many spots is on the team, maybe 15 or something.。
And so tryout day comes, I go, and the first half of the day, it, I mean, everything goes。
wrong.。
It is just not working.。
And I have to say, I got so discouraged that I thought it was over.。
And so I disengaged and I actually gave up.。
And so in the afternoon, I just did my thing.。
They cut two players that day, and I was one of them.。
And the other guy wasn't good.。
And for me afterwards, it bugged me.。
I was so bothered by my mindset that I disengaged and I gave up.。
And actually turned into one of those life lessons, I'm never going to do that again.。
I'm never going to just give up that easy again.。
I'm going to, if I have an opportunity, I'm going to fight for it.。
But it showed me the importance of how our mindset impacts, you know, impacts things.。
And if you think about it, this is true for relationships, right?。
You can be engaged in our relationships, our friendships, our marriages, or we can disengage.。
So and whether we're engaged or disengaged makes a huge difference, a huge difference.。
Now what about engaging?。
And what about our mindset towards the city of Hong Kong?。
Are we engaged with what is happening here, with what God wants to do here, or are we。
disengaged?。
And it doesn't matter who we are, you know, whether you're an expat, whether you're a。
local Hong Konger, whether you're a domestic helper, whatever your background is, it doesn't。
matter.。
You know, God desires for us.。
He desires for us to be engaged.。
And so what I want to do with you today in this message, I want to explore with you a。
question and it's this question, what does God's word have to say about the mindset with。
which he wants us to relate to the city?。
You know, what does he have to say about that?。
And why does it matter?。
What difference does it make?。
What perspective we have?。
So I want to explore that with you through the text.。
And so we're in a new sermon series that we have entitled Seeking the Peace of the City.。
And throughout this series, we want to explore how is God inviting us, his people, his church,。
and the places where he has placed you in, in your workplace, in your family, in your。
neighborhood, how is he inviting us to be people who contribute to the flourishing and。
the thriving of others?。
How is he inviting us to bring those around us up, to be about others?。
And so that's what we're going to explore in the sermon series.。
I want to give you a little bit of an overview.。
So today is Seek the Peace of the City.。
Next week we have Pastor John, so excited about that.。
He's going to talk about contributing to the peace of the city.。
Then we have Vision Sunday, which will also fit into that overall theme.。
And then finally, Pray for the Peace of the City.。
Pastor Chapman is going to be preaching on that day.。
So this is part of what I believe God is leading us as a church family into this year.。
And this sermon series is really to unite us and to align our hearts with each other。
in this mission.。
Because last year we focused, we had a soft launch, we had a public launch, we got this。
building ready, and that's awesome and that's amazing, and praise God.。
But really, if we're not engaged in the city, if we're not serving, if we're not loving,。
if we're not bringing others up around us, we're really missing out on what God wants。
to do to us.。
So this year is crucial for us as a church, and so that's what we're going to explore.。
I'm excited about this.。
I'm excited to see what God is going to do this year, and I hope you are as well.。
So we're going to go to Jeremiah 29, but before we go into the specific text, so this is an。
Old Testament book, it was written, or the part that we're going to look at, in 597,。
before Christ, Babylon, Israel was rebelling against them, and so they went into Israel。
and they took the leaders, they took professionals, the artisans, they took military leaders,。
and they took them captive and they brought them back to Babylon.。
Now there was a strategy behind that, because they wanted to assimilate the leaders of this。
country into their culture.。
So assimilate means they wanted them to become like them, they just wanted to absorb them.。
And so they actually gave people quite a bit of freedom when they were in Babylon, but。
they wanted them to lose their distinct identity as a people of God.。
So that was their plan, their strategy that they used.。
And that would then, they thought, also take care of rebellion.。
So they were playing the long game with this strategy.。
Now Israel, they know that, they're forcefully displaced to Babylon, and instead of immersing。
themselves in what's going on, they actually are on the outskirts of the city of Babylon。
living alongside a canal.。
So they're huddling within their group of people, and they're resisting this attempt。
to assimilate them.。
Now the prophet Jeremiah, he was mainly active in Judea and Jerusalem, that's where most。
of his work takes place.。
But in this case, he writes a letter and he sends it to the exiles.。
And so that's what we're going to read, that's what we're going to look at.。
So Jeremiah 29, starting with verse 4, it says this, "This is what the Lord Almighty,。
the God of Israel, says to all those I carried into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon.。
Build houses and settle down.。
Plant gardens and eat what they produce.。
Marry, have sons, daughters, find wives for your sons, and give your daughters in marriage。
so that they too may have sons and daughters."。
Very focused on having a lot of children, right?。
"Increase in number there, do not decrease.。
Also seek the peace and the prosperity of the city to which I have carried you into。
exile.。
Pray to the Lord for it, because if it prospers, you too prosper."。
Yes, this is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says.。
Do not let the prophets and the diviners among you deceive you.。
Do not listen to the dreams you encourage them to have.。
They are prophesying lies to you.。
In my name, I have not sent them, declares the Lord.。
This is what the Lord says.。
When 70 years have completed for Babylon, I will come to you and fulfill my good promise。
to bring you back to this place.。
For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans to prosper you, not to harm。
you, plans to give you hope and a future.。
So this is part of the letter that Jeremiah writes them.。
And so what I want to, the way I want to unpack it with you is look at what does this have。
to say about the mindset, about the posture that God wants his people to have in relationship。
to the city, and then also ultimately, of course, what does that mean for us about the。
posture and the mindset that God wants us to have in regards to Hong Kong.。
So first we see that Jeremiah warns the exiles of false prophets and what they're saying.。
So in verse eight through nine, you know, he says, I'm not going to read it all because。
I just read it, but I'll read some parts.。
It says, do not let the prophets and diviners among you deceive you.。
So they were deceiving people.。
And he also says, they are prophesying lies to you in my name.。
I have not sent them.。
And so they're being deceived and they're believing in lies, but they also kind of want。
to.。
I don't know if you ever have that where you want something to be true so much so that。
you believe it, even if it's not true.。
I have, I'm sure.。
I'm sure you have as well.。
So Jeremiah is warning the exiles of these false prophets among them who spreading lies.。
Now, why it's not stated exactly, what they were saying, and we noticed from, you know,。
the surrounding context and in scripture is that this will not last for a long time and。
that they will return within a short period of time.。
So that's the message that, that those false prophets are giving the Israelites.。
It's just, just hold on for a little bit and then we'll go back to the promised land.。
And God warns them that these prophecies, their lies, it's not true.。
And he even tells them you're going to be there 70 years.。
That's not a few months or a couple of years.。
That's, that's a lifetime.。
But, but these false prophecies and the Israelites believing them, it actually really impacts。
our mindset because if you think you're going to return, you're not really going to be engaged。
in what's going on.。
You're not really going to invest yourself in you.。
You're like, I don't even want to have a child in this place.。
I don't want to raise someone here.。
I, you know, these, I'm not going to start a business here.。
And so, so does this, this mindset or these lies lead to this mindset of like, I'm not。
going to be engaged.。
I'm going to be disengaged.。
We're just going to be in our huddle.。
We're going to wait this out.。
We're going to put things on pause and then, you know, whenever God takes us back, we'll。
go back.。
And Jeremiah is really confronting that.。
And, and for them, that must, must have been such hard news to hear.。
You're being deceived.。
You're being lied to.。
Now, I recently, totally different country, context, so not from here.。
I talked to someone where I really sensed that they were being deceived and lied to.。
And they, they, they didn't, they really didn't want to, they didn't want to hear it.。
You know, and so, so it's actually when somebody tells you that and you're really convinced,。
otherwise it's hard to believe it.。
But Jeremiah is speaking into this lie and speaking of this deception.。
Now this makes me wonder, what are some of those lies and deceptions and these false。
prophecies that are floating around in Hong Kong?。
And who are the people distributing these lies?。
Is it press?。
Is it social media?。
Is it leaders?。
Now while I couldn't identify a false prophecy or something that's floating around in Hong。
Kong, there is something that I've picked up.。
There's something that's been discussed among friends.。
And that I'm sure you've also heard.。
And so, and that's this idea that I'm not going to invest myself here.。
As a matter of fact, maybe I'm trying to sell my flat.。
I'm putting money outside of Hong Kong.。
I'm putting there a nest, you know, so I can be in case I need to leave, I can leave.。
So I have plan B. I am not very hopeful about the future of Hong Kong.。
Economically, it's not going good.。
Spiritually, it's not going good.。
And now, I'm not even saying that, you know, that is not true.。
So I just want to be very clear.。
I'm not saying this is a false prophecy or something, because it's not a prophecy.。
But this is a conversation you hear a lot.。
And people are talking about, should we stay?。
Should we go?。
When are we leaving?。
Or maybe I want to leave, but I can't, because I need to take care of my mom, you know, or。
whatever it is.。
And so there's these questions floating around.。
And they're weighing on us.。
And I have a sense that within that, within all of that, that there is a lie, and there。
is some deception.。
And it's that there is no hope for Hong Kong.。
And I think also another part of it is that there is fear, that there is just a level。
of fear and lack of hope.。
And even among Christians.。
And I, you know, one thing when we planted this church, we announced that we're planting。
a church during the pandemic.。
What we're doing, Ivan and I did it on a video camera.。
Like we couldn't even meet in person.。
And at that time, there was like right now, there was companies moving out, shifting their。
headquarters to Singapore and all of that.。
So we were going against the tide.。
But the reason why we believe that God was leading us to do this as a church was because。
we sense that God is saying, I'm not finished with Hong Kong.。
I have a plan.。
I have good plans and a good purpose for the city and for the people here.。
You know, but it's when all you hear is this other stuff, it's hard to see that it's hard。
to believe that.。
So earlier when we were praying before the service, we had the one person as they were。
praying, they had this image of somebody carrying an armor, you know, that was protected, but。
it was the world's armor.。
And the world's armor was not from God.。
You know, there's the armor of God in the Bible, but it was the world's armor.。
And the world's armor was, I'm going to take matters in my own hand.。
I'm going to have plan B. I'm going to put some money outside in the nest.。
I'm going to do this.。
I'm going to do that.。
And it's very fear driven.。
Now and again, I also want to be careful.。
You know, you can use your wisdom and discernment.。
That's right.。
But there is a lot of things that are very fear driven.。
And surely that's not the way that God wants us to make decisions.。
And so, and then we have the sense that God is inviting us today and throughout the series。
to release some of those lies and some of those fears and some of the deception to him。
and then to receive what he has for us.。
And I think what he has for us is faith and hope that God is not finished with Hong Kong。
while other people are saying he's finished and they're ready to move out.。
And that he has a purpose for us here.。
Why plant a church if God's finished with Hong Kong?。
He's not, you know, like you don't do that, but he's not finished.。
And so that's some of the things that we were sensing as we were preparing this message.。
So let's continue with the Bible passage.。
So into the situation where the exiles are choosing to be disengaged, because that's。
what like lies and deceptions, you know, from the false prophets lead to.。
That you disengage, you're in this in-between space.。
And that's where Jeremiah's letter speaks into.。
So in verse four it says this, this is what the Lord, the God of Israel says to all those。
I carried into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon.。
So I want you to, so in Jeremiah 29 verse one, we didn't read that.。
It says that Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon brought Israel into exile.。
Now here God is saying that he did it.。
I carried you here.。
And so God is working through a secular leader accomplishing his purpose.。
Now again, the people, that's not what they're perceiving.。
That's not, they're not thinking about this event as God doing this.。
They're thinking something wrong is going to happen, God's going to bring them back.。
So they're having the wrong perspective on what's actually happening.。
And God is doing that in part, so part of it is judgment actually on Israel because。
they've been idolatrous, they've been unfaithful to the covenant, to God, not doing what he。
asked them to do and repeatedly asked them to do.。
And so this exile is judgment.。
And that's a hard pill to swallow for those.。
And can you imagine receiving this letter or the guy who has to deliver the letter sharing。
this news?。
Yeah, I don't want to be that guy.。
And so Jeremiah's shocking message continues verse five and six.。
He says, build houses and settle down, plant gardens and eat what they produce.。
Marry and have sons and daughters.。
So he talks about all these things and ultimately increase in number that do not decrease.。
So God is telling Israel to settle down and earlier in verse 10, he also told them they're。
going to be there 70 years.。
It's like, immerse yourself, be engaged, be present.。
And so while there's judgment, there's actually here good news.。
There's grace.。
And I want to highlight that a little bit more.。
So in the midst of this difficult situation, God is actually reaffirming his original creation。
promise to Israel.。
This is creation language.。
Let's talk about multiplying and having children.。
This is blessing language.。
This is the cultural mandate that God gives in Genesis 128 to Adam and Eve.。
So actually let me read this.。
It says here, God blessed them and said to them, be fruitful and increase in number.。
Fill the earth and subdue it.。
Rule over the fish in the sea, in the birds in the sky, and over every living creature。
that moves on the ground.。
So the word that God has spoken originally in his creation, now he's speaking over Israel。
in the exile.。
He's saying, I have a good purpose for you.。
I'm speaking blessing over you to flourish and to thrive here in exile.。
And then further in verse 11, which is the famous verse, you know, the one that you always。
have in your kitchen magnets and Christian books and posters and whatever there is.。
God affirms that he has these good plans.。
He says this in verse 11, for I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans to。
prosper you, not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future.。
So while there is that judgment, but God right away, his grace and his mercy and his good。
purposes are at work.。
And with this new creation, God is working something new in Israel's hearts and lives.。
He's doing something new in his people.。
Now I don't know if you think about this.。
So God is saying these good things, they're not happening in the promised land.。
He's not saying they're happening in the temple or in Jerusalem.。
He's saying they're happening in an exile, in exile, in a pagan city.。
That is where God is choosing to bless.。
That's where he has good plans for his people to prosper them.。
I don't know if you've ever had that experience where God does some, blesses you, does something。
new in an unexpected place at an unexpected time in a place you never imagined this would。
happen.。
That's what God is doing right here.。
He's working and unfolding his good purposes for his people.。
This again, I just try to put myself in the shoes of those exiles.。
I mean, this must be so hard to receive.。
The mindset that God is asking the exiles to have is contrary to the mindset that they。
currently hold.。
He's really trying to give them a different perspective on what's going on.。
He's trying to flip a switch so they can see what God is up to in this very difficult and。
painful and disorienting season in their lives.。
But why is God asking them to have this different mindset?。
Why is he wanting them to have a different perspective?。
It's because he wants them to be engaged.。
He wants them to receive this blessing and he wants to work through them.。
He actually has a mission and a purpose for them.。
Now he wants them to have a presence in that city.。
Now you can be somewhere and not have a presence.。
You can be in that exact same place with exact same circumstances and have a presence.。
As I was preparing this message, I used to be a youth pastor a long time ago, actually。
at the same time as Pastor John's son, Matt.。
And I took over a youth group that was devastated.。
You know, there was a conflict and everybody had left.。
It used to be one of the biggest youth groups in Hong Kong, in the international churches.。
But then there was a blow up and they were gone.。
So I had like the pieces.。
And I had two volunteers that were amazing that God brought, Karina and John.。
John was here as an exchange student, Chinese American, just for a semester.。
Karina, also Chinese American, also an exchange student here for a year.。
And I don't know about you, if you did study in university or did some other course of。
developing yourself, when you're young, a lot of times you just want to have fun.。
You're exploring a city, you're partying, you're studying, you also take that series.。
And that's what they could have done.。
But they decided to have a presence in the city.。
They decided to invest themselves.。
And so every Friday night and Sunday morning, also not great times for college students,。
they served in the youth group.。
And the youth loved them.。
And they really helped bring people up.。
You help bring these youth who had just gone through a difficult experience, to bring them。
up, to encourage them in their faith, to build them up.。
Because they chose, they had the mindset to have a presence and to be engaged in what。
was going on and to be available.。
And this is ultimately it, to be available to God.。
You can be unavailable or you can be available to God.。
And they chose to be available to God and God used them in ways they could have never。
planned and we couldn't plan for it.。
Now this is true for every one of us.。
We can choose to have a presence in the city at this point in time, in the places where。
God has placed you in.。
All your spheres of influence, whether it's your business, your family, your neighborhood,。
the school you're in, the finance department, whatever you do, you can choose to have a。
presence there and you can choose to be available to God.。
You can be engaged instead of being disengaged.。
And if you are engaged, God will use you.。
Now the final key piece of the mindset that God talks about in this passage is that he。
wants us to seek, he wants the exiles and us as well to seek the welfare, the prosperity,。
the peace of the city.。
So in verse 7 it says this, "Also seek the peace and prosperity of the city which I have。
carried you into.。
Pray to the Lord for it, because if it prospers, you too will prosper."。
So again God emphasized that he has a purpose and he has a mission for those in exile, in。
a place where they didn't want to be, they didn't think there was anything for them there,。
but God has good plans for them there.。
And then he asked them to do something that's extremely hard.。
He's asking them to work towards the prosperity, to seek the prosperity, the peace of the city,。
but then he also asks them to pray.。
Pray to the Lord for it, because if it prospers, you too will prosper.。
Now that means praying for your enemy.。
They were forcefully deported to Babylon and now God is asking them to pray for them.。
Now Chapman is going to talk about that in the future, so I don't want to talk about。
too much, but I think part of it, why God is asking them to pray is because they cannot。
bring this blessing, they cannot bring this peace, this prosperity to the city, because。
it's God's work, but he does it through his people.。
And so it's also a reminder of our independence on God that ultimately it's he who works through。
his people to bring about those things.。
So when you pray, we're depending on God for those things.。
Now the word translated as peace and prosperity is actually one word in Hebrew.。
It's the word shalom, and shalom has a wide range of meaning.。
The reason why there is two words, they use two words because there is no English equivalent.。
And here's a little definition.。
Shalom means wholeness and well-being in every aspect of life, social, economic, spiritual,。
and psychological well-being.。
And God is concerned about the welfare of Babylon and all of these aspects, and he wants。
to bring it through his people to that city, and he also wants to do it in Israel's life。
as well.。
So every dimension of human life in society that is damaged by sin, every injustice, every。
economic need, and every pain is a place where God seeks to bring his wholeness through his。
people.。
So when you look around and you see people in economic need and you're a business owner。
and you create jobs, you're bringing the shalom of God.。
You're raising people up because now there's people who can earn an income, can take care。
of their family.。
If you see somebody who's discouraged, who is down, and you give them your ear and you。
care for them, you're bringing people up.。
If you see somebody, you know, there's a relationship breakdown, maybe even because of our own sin,。
you can help them work through whatever happened and talk about forgiveness and repentance。
and God's grace and love, and you can bring them up.。
And so God wants us to be people who bring everyone up, and we do it in the places where。
there's pain, where there's need, where there's brokenness.。
So Israel has a choice to make.。
Will they continue to be withdrawn and disengaged in the exile, or are they going to step forward。
in faith, believe what God says, and be present, be engaged, and seek the prosperity and the。
peace of everyone around them?。
That's their choice.。
And that's what they ultimately did choose.。
But now what about us here in Hong Kong?。
How does all this apply to us?。
Now I already made connections while we're talking, but I want to just highlight a couple。
more things.。
It's interesting that in the New Testament, the Apostle Peter actually describes the church's。
identity through the image of exile.。
So if you read 1 Peter, he uses that image to describe who we are as Christians, our。
identity as a church.。
So in 1 Peter 2, 11 through 12, it says this, "Dear friends, I urge you as foreigners in。
exile to abstain from sinful desires, which wage war against your soul.。
Live such good lives among the pagans that though they accuse you of doing wrong, they。
may see your good deeds and glorify God in the day he visits us."。
So God uses this image for us.。
And what this means for us is that we're meant to be distinct, so we're meant to be holy.。
We're meant to reflect the character of God and the places God has us, and we're meant。
to be engaged.。
We're meant to live lives in such a way and do good works that end up leading others to。
glorifying God, to praising God.。
So the church which is you and me is meant to be an alternative community that reflects。
and gives expression to the character of God in the community God has placed us in.。
There's no accident that we're here.。
He has us where he wants us.。
We are called to be present and engaged and seek the welfare of the city, so much so that。
our good deeds become visible to those around us, leading them to glorify God.。
So God is calling us to live in that tension of being distinct, so we're not meant to assimilate。
what Babylon wanted, so that we just become like culture, that we worship the same idols。
as culture, money, sex, power.。
So we're meant to be holy, we're meant to be distinct, but then we're also meant to。
be engaged with what's going on.。
We are meant to be present.。
We're meant to be doing good works that bring others up.。
And when we do that, we're available for God to use us and to bring about the prosperity。
and the peace of those around us.。
You know, then we're vessels, we're people that are available to God and for his work.。
We're open to being his kingdom agents in the places he has placed us in.。
So we're faced with the same choice that the exiles faced.。
Are we going to withdraw?。
Are we going to assimilate?。
Are we going to walk in that tension of being distinct, but engaged and present and available。
to God?。
Are we going to live in fear because of the conversations that are floating around?。
Or are we going to step out in faith and believe that God has good purposes for Hong Kong and。
he wants to do good things and bring blessing through his people, through his church, in。
the places where he has placed us?。
So that's our choice.。
What's our mindset?。
Are we available to God or are we not available to him?。
So I want to invite everyone to stand right now.。
I also want to invite the worship team to come up.。
And I just want to give a moment for you to quietly pray on your own, to respond to what。
I just shared.。
Maybe there has been fear.。
Maybe there has been, you know, you're overwhelmed and there's been hopelessness.。
If that's the case, I want to encourage you to bring that to God.。
I want to encourage you to release that to God and ask him to give you faith and hope.。
Or maybe you realize that you haven't been available to God, that you've been disengaged.。
Right now is also an opportunity to say, "Lord, I'm available to you.。
I'm available to you."。
Don't underestimate what God can do through you when you are available to him.。
Don't underestimate it.。
You are significant.。
So Jesus, I thank you for every single person that is here.。
Lord, we lift up those things that bring us fear.。
We lift up those things that have discouraged us.。
We lift up our maybe we're hopelessness in us.。
We lift up those things where we have disengaged and we've just been in this limbo and haven't。
been present to you and present to those around us.。
Lord, I pray that this year and the spheres that you place us in, that we would be available。
to you, that we'd be led by your spirit, that you would bring your kingdom, that would break。
into the areas where we're at work, where there's pain, that you bring healing, where。
there's lack of hope, that we can be people who speak hope, where there's people who don't。
know about your forgiveness enough, that we can share the good news about your forgiveness。
enough so they can have freedom and peace and just a new life in you.。
Where there's people who need a job, that we can be people who create jobs for others,。
that we can just be people who bring others up.。
And we don't do it out of our own strength, we do it by your strength, by your spirit,。
Lord.。
And so, Lord, will you use us to bring your shalom, to bring your peace and prosperity。
to the city, to be a light of hope to Yunlong, this place you've placed us in.。
Lord, this is our heart, will you use us, Lord?。
We pray this in your name, Jesus, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
