I'm surrounded by people, this is amazing.。
How's everyone doing?。
If you're new to the Vine, welcome.。
My name's Andrew, I'm one of the pastors here.。
We're so, so glad that you are with us today.。
When I was 14 years old,。
I very, very nearly drowned to death.。
It's actually a moment in my life。
that still causes me great trauma。
when I think of water, even to this day.。
I nearly, nearly drowned to death.。
I was at Waterworld at Ocean Park at the time.。
Now, this is not, ladies and gentlemen,。
this is not the new Waterworld。
that you're all familiar with today.。
The Waterworld where they finally realized。
that there is such a thing。
as occupational health and safety.。
This was back in the '80s and '90s, right?。
The '80s and '90s where, as a 14-year-old kid,。
we would go to Waterworld and that place was rugged.。
I mean, that was down to earth.。
This was the OG of water parks.。
And there was a lot of things。
that you could get up to in that place。
where it was pretty dangerous.。
But the ride that was the most favorite。
for everybody was the Raging River.。
Now, hands up if you ever did the Raging River。
in the old OG water park.。
Come on!。
You survived.。
I almost didn't survive.。
Let me tell you the story.。
So the Raging River was this crazy water slide。
where everybody was given a big, large, inflatable ring.。
And you sat in the ring,。
like you sort of jumped up inside the ring,。
and you sat in the ring,。
and your bum was kind of in the hole, right?。
And you sat there nice and comfortable holding onto it.。
And the Raging River was basically a network。
of small little pools and slides, big, large slides,。
that went down the side of this mountain.。
Now, what you would do is you'd sit。
in your little kind of inflatable ring,。
and you would slide down a slide,。
and then you would end up in the next pool.。
A few of you would gather in the pool,。
and then you would slide on down to the next one,。
and so on and so forth until you got to the bottom.。
Now, this slide had an inherent danger to it.。
The inherent danger was what would happen。
when too many people would gather in one of the pools。
before going down to the next one,。
and there were people up in the pool above。
wanting to come down into their pool,。
and the danger would be what would happen。
if somebody slid down and sort of crashed。
into everybody that was in the pool below.。
Does that make sense?。
And then that was gonna create a problem.。
So Waterworld realized they had an inherent danger。
in their mechanism of the slide,。
so they hired a bunch of young men.。
These guys look like triads.。
There's no other way of saying it.。
A bunch of triads basically were hired,。
and they wore dark sunglasses, and they had walkie-talkies,。
and their job was basically to tell you。
when you could go down the slides and when you couldn't.。
So their job was to kind of go,。
okay, there's too many people in the pool right now.。
Everybody up there, stop,。
and then they would let some people down。
and make some space and that so forth.。
Now, on this one particular day,。
me and my mates were in the raging river.。
Now, one of the things that we loved to do。
was to be dangerous.。
And how we were dangerous was we would dare each other.。
Like, whichever pool seems to be the busiest,。
I dare you to slide on down,。
even if the triads tell you not to, right?。
And this was the whole thing.。
Like, we would dare each other all the time.。
Well, on this one particular day,。
we're up in one of the pools,。
and we're looking down at the pool below.。
Now, we had never seen the pool so full.。
Maybe 15 kind of inflatable rings。
would have already have filled the pool,。
but there was probably like 20 or so inflatable rings,。
people in there already in this pool.。
And it was so full that none of my friends。
had the courage to give it a go, except me.。
And I looked down on that pool,。
and I was like, this is my time to shine.。
This is my moment of glory.。
This is my moment to show my friends。
that I'm the bravest and the strongest。
and the craziest of them all.。
And so although the sun shades, walkie talkie guys。
were saying to us, don't go,。
I kind of looked left, I looked right,。
and I grabbed my ring and I jumped down onto the slide.。
I actually went down like this, head first, like this.。
Have you ever had a moment in your life。
where you start something, and like the momentum kicks in。
and you realize you can't back out anymore,。
but you immediately realize that you made a mistake?。
Have you ever had a moment like that in your life?。
This was that moment for me.。
As soon as I started on that slide,。
I realized I have made a big, big mistake.。
The guys that were down below in the pool,。
there was this one man, and he was the one。
who was closest to the slide, right?。
And so he's sitting there, and he looks up,。
and there's this crazy guilo kid。
like barreling down at him head first.。
Now, he does something that I did not expect。
that he would do.。
Normally what would happen when we did this。
is we would slide down into the full pool below,。
and they would not know what to do,。
so we would hit them and fly up over the top of them,。
and it was kind of funny for us, not for them.。
This guy, I don't know whether that's happened。
to him before or not, but he sits there.。
He realizes there's this crazy kid coming down the slide,。
so he does this.。
He leans a little bit, and he lifts up his donut like this,。
lifts up his ring like this.。
What that means is he suddenly creates。
a little pool of water where Andrew flies in head first,。
and rather than bouncing up on top of them,。
which is what I was planning to do,。
I suddenly found myself in the pool under them.。
I looked up, and I had a ceiling of bums above me,。
bums from everywhere, and they were packed in there。
so much that I realized immediately。
there was no way for me to escape.。
I mean, there was no way for me to get up and out。
to get breath, and immediately I was in a place of panic.。
I literally thought this is how I'm going to die,。
and as I'm there, and I'm beginning to panic,。
and I'm realizing that there's just no way。
I'm gonna escape this, I notice the smallest of details,。
the smallest of details that normally。
you wouldn't even kind of bother with or even see,。
but I recognize the smallest of details。
that would actually end up saving my life.。
Do you know what it is?。
I remembered I had a knife in me, and I could stab,。
no, that's not what happened, I didn't remember that.。
(audience laughing)。
The smallest detail was this.。
As I looked up at this sea of bums,。
I saw a very, very small one, a really small bottom,。
and I realized that this was my chance to escape,。
that if I could somehow position myself。
in the water underneath this small little bum,。
I'm assuming that a child was sitting there,。
I might be able to burst up and push the child out,。
and burst up to the middle of their ring。
and grasp ahold of the air。
that I desperately needed for my lungs.。
I'm not proud to admit this,。
but I got under that small little bum,。
and I pushed up as hard as I could,。
and the kid went flying, and Andrew burst up。
through the inside of the ring, (gasping)。
grasping for air, and I went from death to resurrection.。
(audience laughing)。
Now, thank you, thank you.。
The kid was fine, by the way,。
I don't wanna get any emails from anyone later on。
going like, "Hey, child abuse!"。
Kid was fine, okay.。
But here's the thing I learned that day.。
I learned a very important lesson.。
I didn't learn the lesson。
that it's dangerous to play with water,。
although that is a good lesson to learn.。
I didn't learn the lesson that you should listen。
to people in authority with walkie-talkies,。
although that also is a good lesson to learn.。
That day, I learned this, that sometimes in life,。
the smallest of details has the biggest of impact.。
The thing that you probably would mostly ignore normally,。
the thing that doesn't maybe seem a big deal to anyone,。
can actually be the thing that opens up for you。
the greatest of possibilities.。
Case in point is the Easter story itself,。
as presented by John in his gospel.。
The beautiful thing about Easter that we have as Christians。
is that we get four different versions。
of the Easter empty tomb narrative。
from four different writers.。
And John, writing a little bit later than the other gospels,。
captures for us a detail that no one else captures,。
mentions something that no one else mentions,。
a small little thing that when you're reading the passage,。
you might actually just kind of pass over it。
and not look at it much at all,。
but actually when you sit with it for a moment,。
opens up the beauty and the wonder。
of what Easter is really all about.。
And so I wanna read you the story,。
and I wonder whether as I read it,。
you might be able to capture。
what this small little detail is.。
This is John chapter 20, just the first eight verses.。
Early on in the first day of the week,。
while it was still dark, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb。
and saw that the stone had been removed from the entrance.。
So she came running to Simon Peter and the other disciple,。
the one who Jesus loved, and said,。
"They have taken the Lord out of the tomb,。
"and we don't know where they have put him."。
So Peter and the other disciple started for the tomb.。
Both were running, but the other disciple outran Peter。
and reached the tomb first.。
I love the fact that he wants that recorded。
for all the history.。
I won the race.。
He then says this,。
"Then Peter, who was behind him,。
"arrived and went into the tomb,。
"and he saw the strips of linen that were lying there,。
"as well as the burial cloth, or the burial shroud,。
"that had been around Jesus' head.。
"The cloth was folded up by itself,。
"separate from the other linen.。
"Finally, the other disciple,。
"who had reached the tomb first,。
"also went inside.。
"He saw and believed."。
The little detail that John mentions here。
that none of the other gospel writers mention。
is this thing.。
Let me read it to you again.。
He says, "There was a burial shroud。
"that had been around Jesus' head,。
"and the cloth had been folded up by itself。
"and separated from the other linen."。
John mentions a burial shroud,。
which again, kind of is a small little detail,。
but in this small thing comes such wonderful possibilities.。
A burial shroud was pretty much something like this。
that I have here on the table.。
It was a cloth that was placed over the face,。
the head and the face, of the person who had died.。
Now, it was usually a little bit of a thicker cloth。
than the other linen strips.。
Notice that John mentions linen strips。
that were also there.。
The linen strips were the ones。
that wrapped around the body.。
They were very thin kind of linen material.。
The burial shroud was a little bit heavier of material,。
and it was placed over the face。
or the head of the person who had passed away.。
Now, why was this placed over the face of the person?。
Well, the burial shroud signified。
a couple of different things.。
It signified, first of all,。
that it was kind of like covering up the face。
as a way of sort of protecting。
or covering the person's identity。
so that they would have dignity in death.。
So it was like just kind of covering them。
in a way of providing some dignity for them.。
The second reason why the burial shroud。
was placed over the face was because in many cases,。
maybe there was an injury to the face。
or something had happened to the head.。
In Jesus' case, of course, that was the reality。
with the crown of thrones that had been on him,。
and so they cover up the head to protect the head wounds.。
The third thing, but the most important reason。
why the burial shroud was placed over the face。
was because it signified the reality。
that that person had actually died.。
The burial shroud was a sacred cloth。
that was only used in this instance。
to basically say this person has passed from life to death.。
A little bit like how perhaps in the modern time。
and in our modern age, we might take somebody。
who has passed away and close their eyes,。
just kind of do that little close the eyes thing,。
saying this person has passed from this life to the next.。
That's what the burial shroud represented.。
So when John says to us that there is this burial shroud,。
he's wanting to draw attention to the fact。
that death has occurred.。
Now this is really important。
because when John's writing his gospel,。
remember it's later than the other gospel writers,。
and by the time John's writing his gospel,。
the people, the Jewish people of the day。
are basically saying, we don't think Jesus ever died.。
Maybe he was on the cross and maybe he sweated that blood。
and maybe all that happened, yeah,。
but maybe he didn't actually die on the cross。
and so when he got put into the tomb,。
he was actually still alive.。
And that's the reason why he was able to get up and escape.。
Or other rumors that were spreading at the time was this,。
oh, maybe he faked his death.。
Yeah, the disciples, they faked the whole thing.。
It wasn't really true, it wasn't real,。
no one really saw it, no, he escaped and ran off.。
And John says, no, you need to understand。
that there is a burial shroud。
that was around this man's face。
and no one placed a burial shroud on anyone。
unless they had confirmed that they were really dead.。
So for John, this is a big deal.。
It might seem like a small detail to us,。
but it's a much bigger impact than what we might realize.。
This is saying, no, Jesus was dead。
and it was important for John and his audience。
to understand that that had taken place.。
But then he mentioned something else.。
He doesn't say that the burial shroud was there.。
He said it had been taken up,。
that it had been folded up,。
and it had been placed separately。
from the other strips of linen.。
Again, another small detail we might easily pass over。
when we've read this a million times,。
but John is trying to communicate something。
that's gonna help the people connect。
to something that was significant on the Easter story,。
folded up and separated from what they think else.。
And the question John wants you to ask。
as you're reading his narrative is, why did that happen?。
Well, to understand that, I wanna unpack for you。
actually a bigger story,。
not just a story of the death and resurrection of Jesus,。
but a story that goes way back。
to the beginning of all things.。
700 years before the empty tomb experience that John has,。
something happens for Israel, the nation.。
At that moment in history, Babylon,。
which was the largest empire of that time,。
who lived on the east side。
of where Israel's land was at the time,。
came in and actually attacked the Jewish people.。
They stormed into Jerusalem,。
they destroyed the temple that was on Mount Zion,。
they killed many of the Jewish people at that time,。
and they took a remnant of the people。
out into captivity and exile in Babylon itself.。
And the Bible tells us that for 70 years,。
the Jewish people were in exile in Babylon.。
And this was the darkest time for Israel。
in maybe all of their history.。
This was a time where they were wrestling。
with the realities of so many things。
that were going through their mind.。
They were wrestling with,。
why has God allowed this to happen?。
Why has God come and done this?。
What has taken place?。
And now that the temple is destroyed,。
where is God's presence on earth?。
'Cause that's where they believe God's presence dwelt,。
and the Babylonians had come in and destroyed the temple,。
and suddenly they were asking these questions,。
where is God then?。
'Cause if God doesn't reside in his temple,。
where now is our Lord?。
And they're in exile in Babylon,。
and so much of the writing at this time。
is them crying out and saying,。
why have you forsaken us, God?。
Why have you left us?。
Why have you parted from us?。
And as they're beginning to think this,。
they also have this other revelation.。
They realize that the reason why they're in exile。
in the first place is because of their sin,。
their brokenness.。
Because they had acted and done,。
and had treated their God in ways。
that they should not have done.。
And this has placed them in a place。
where they now are in exile,。
and they realize that this is largely。
because of the brokenness found within them.。
Which opens up for us another big story,。
the story of humanity's brokenness itself.。
The Bible explains that story by linking it。
to the first humans, Adam and Eve,。
created by God to be in relationship with Him,。
relationship with themselves,。
relationship with one another,。
relationship with His creation.。
Genesis 1 and 2 pitches us this beautiful picture。
of what Shalom looks like。
between God and humanity perfect together.。
And God tells Adam and Eve just one thing not to do,。
just like a little 14-year-old boy,。
the one thing you're not supposed to do。
is go down that slide into the next pool.。
The one thing He told them not to do,。
take of the fruit of the knowledge of the tree,。
and good and evil.。
Well, we all know the human story, don't we?。
Us humans, if you tell us not to do something,。
it's the first thing we're gonna do.。
Adam and Eve take the fruit that they should not have done.。
The Bible tells us that this story。
of humanity's brokenness begins at that point.。
And the Bible's very clear that that brokenness happens。
in basically those four essential relationships,。
our relationship with God,。
our relationship with ourselves,。
our relationship with the others around us,。
and even our relationship with creation.。
And there's a brokenness and a heaviness。
that's now come into all spheres of that area in our lives.。
And the Bible says from Genesis 4 onwards,。
it's the story of humanity。
wrestling with the heaviness of the sin,。
knowing what it is to breaking that relationship。
with God, themselves, with others in the world,。
and the heaviness that comes on them in that reality.。
And the rest of the biblical narrative's a fascinating story。
because it's a story of God's people。
wanting to be back in relationship with Him,。
and yet realizing that their own efforts。
and their own ability to do that will never be enough.。
They realize that they're the ones。
that broke that relationship, but they can't restore it.。
That's only gonna be God.。
God's gonna have to do something。
to help restore that relationship。
because it's way beyond their ability.。
And this brings us back to that moment 700 years。
before the tomb was empty,。
where Israel's in captivity in Babylon,。
and it's there for the first time they go,。
we need God to do something new.。
We need Him to step in.。
We can't try to create this in our own strength anymore.。
We are useless.。
No, God has to come in His compassion and His love。
and change it all.。
So it shouldn't surprise us that in this moment,。
700 years before Jesus' empty tomb,。
God begins to speak through prophets,。
and He tells these prophets a vision。
and a dream of what's gonna happen.。
And each prophet has a different perspective。
and a different, broader and wider dream.。
And in this moment, God calls one prophet.。
In this incredible, dark time of Israel's history,。
one prophet named Isaiah.。
And Isaiah begins to get this amazing vision。
of what the world might be like when God comes。
and steps in and changes everything.。
And I wanna read to you the vision he gets。
right at this time of exile for the Jewish people.。
It's found in Isaiah.。
It starts in chapter 25,。
and I wonder if you can hear this as I speak it.。
He says, verse seven, Isaiah 25.。
"On this mountain, He will destroy the burial shroud。
"that enfolds all the people,。
"the sheet that covers all nations.。
"He will swallow up death forever,。
"and the sovereign Lord will wipe away the tears。
"from all faces.。
"He will remove the distance from people。
"from all the earth,。
"for the Lord has spoken.。
"In that day, they will say,。
"'Surely this is our God.。
"'We trust it in Him, and He saved us.。
"'This is the Lord.。
"'We trust it in Him,。
"'and we rejoice and be glad in His salvation.'"。
Can you hear what Isaiah says。
700 years before the resurrection of Jesus?。
God gives him a picture of what sin for humanity is like.。
And here's how Isaiah describes it.。
He's like, "It's like a burial shroud。
"has been placed over us,。
"like a sheet has come and been placed。
"over all of humanity."。
And in this prophetic vision,。
he sees humanity shrouded in death, essentially,。
with that burial shroud over their faces,。
over their heads,。
covering them like you would someone who's died.。
And it's Isaiah's beautiful prophetic way of saying,。
"Don't you realize that this is what sin does to us?"。
The Bible in the New Testament would say it elsewhere.。
It would say that the wages of sin is what?。
Is death.。
And so the burial shroud,。
which had always signified the passing of something,。
Isaiah sees it over all of humanity,。
like that heavy cloth placed upon us,。
which makes it hard for us to see anything.。
We can kind of make out vague shapes,。
but not really see as we were supposed to see,。
the weight of it over our heads, pulling down upon us,。
this beautiful poetic imagery is what Isaiah is saying,。
"Humanity's sin and brokenness is like."。
So stick with us for a moment,。
'cause I think that's something。
that we can all resonate with, right?。
I think in many ways,。
no matter what kind of life you may have led,。
we can all recognize the heaviness。
that life creates for us at times,。
the brokenness that is so present for us.。
And perhaps for some of you, as you've come in today,。
this resonates with you.。
You know what it's like to wear a bit of a shroud。
over your head, if you will.。
You know the heaviness of life,。
the hardship and the challenges.。
Perhaps for some of you,。
it's because of what others have done to you.。
Perhaps you've been hurt.。
Perhaps somebody else's brokenness has broken you.。
Perhaps words have been shared, things have happened.。
Maybe someone's done something to you。
that's caused a lot of trauma and hardship in your life,。
and it feels like there's a filter now over your life.。
Or perhaps for some of us, we resonate with it。
because we know of our own actions.。
We know that we've hurt others.。
We know that despite the fact that we didn't want to,。
words came out of our mouths, or actions happened,。
or things took place,。
and we know we've broken others because of it.。
I think we all resonate, don't we,。
with the reality that the shroud can cover us,。
that the heaviness of the cloth can be around us,。
that the weight of it can push down upon us.。
We can all wrestle with that.。
I think we can all connect with it.。
And this is why Isaiah is sharing it,。
because he's like,。
"This image kind of fits for all of us, doesn't it?"。
But then he says this beautiful thing.。
He says, "I see a time in the future。
"when God will act, and the burial shroud,。
"the sheet that covers all peoples and nations,。
"will be destroyed.。
"It will be removed."。
The word destroyed there, guess what it means?。
Actually, if you look at it in the Hebrew。
and you break it down, it means to be set aside.。
He says, "There's a time coming in the future。
"where the burial shroud will be set aside,。
"where it will be destroyed once and for all."。
And he says this is gonna happen。
for all peoples and all nations.。
I love that.。
You see, Isaiah could have just played to the crowd.。
He could have just said,。
"Hey, this is gonna happen for us Jewish people.。
"This is good news for all of us Jewish people."。
But he doesn't say that.。
He says, "This is for all people.。
"For all nations."。
Like no matter what other cultural background,。
no matter who you are, if you're a human being,。
this is good news for you, Isaiah is saying.。
He's saying God has taken the burial shroud,。
that heaviness that weighs upon you,。
and he's removed it and he's placed it away,。
and you can have fresh life, all peoples on earth.。
You see, the liberation of God is not a half liberation.。
You know, a liberation just reserved。
for the special few of us.。
It's a liberation for all people and all nations.。
The sheet has been removed.。
Anyone who trusts in him, it is gone.。
That is the powerful message of Easter.。
That's the wonder and the beauty。
of what we sit in this room today。
to praise and to be thankful for.。
Not something that happened some 700,000, 2,000,。
2,500 years ago for other people,。
but something that's happened for all of us。
right here and right now.。
This is why Isaiah fills this with beautiful imagery。
in terms of the liberation that comes for us all.。
Notice what he says.。
He says, "The sovereign Lord will wipe away every tear.。
"He will remove the disgrace from his people.。
"He will save us."。
Oh, what beautiful thoughts.。
He's gonna wipe everything away.。
He's gonna liberate the shame and the disgrace。
that sits on us because of the things that we've done。
that we're not proud of, and he's going to save us,。
bring us that salvation.。
It's a call to the wonder of a God。
who can change everything.。
So stick with us all and come back to me。
and come back with me to John chapter 20.。
Notice what John says.。
He says, "When I walked in there,。
"when I arrived in the tomb,。
"I saw the strips of linen lying there。
"as well as the burial shroud。
"that had been around Jesus' head,。
"and the cloth now was folded up by itself。
"and separated from the other linen."。
John is giving us a very small detail。
that has a massive impact.。
He's saying that that shroud that was around Jesus' head。
has been folded up and set aside,。
not just 'cause it says something about Jesus,。
because it says something about the biblical story。
of all time.。
It actually links to what Isaiah had prophesied。
700 years before that God's people had been longing。
for the day when God would step in。
and deal with sin once and for all,。
that the burial shroud that was around us all。
would be lifted off and separated and destroyed。
so we would know the fullness of love,。
the fullness of forgiveness, the fullness of life.。
And he says, "I saw it and I believed."。
He said, "I made the connection。
"between Isaiah's prophetic vision。
"and God's work in Jesus,。
"and I no longer saw Jesus as just a good moral leader.。
"I no longer saw him as just some prophet of old.。
"I now see him as the Son of God."。
The burial shroud has been set aside.。
I love the word he uses here in the Greek.。
It's the word folded.。
He said, "It's folded," which interestingly is the same。
if you read the Old Testament in the LXX,。
which is the Greek version of the Old Testament,。
the word that Isaiah uses to speak of the unfolding。
of the shroud around all people.。
It's the same root word.。
So here's John making this beautiful theological connection。
to the language he's using.。
What was once enfolded over all of humanity。
has now been folded and separated and set apart.。
Destroyed.。
And where the Bible says that the wages of sin is death,。
Easter tells us that death is not the final story.。
That death is not how this thing's all going to end up.。
That actually, here's what's gonna happen.。
Every tear is gonna be wiped away.。
All that shame is gonna be removed.。
The salvation will come for anyone。
who would put his trust in him.。
The beauty of Easter is the celebration。
of a new time has embarked in this world.。
A new time has come.。
This is why Jesus, when he's on the cross, cries out,。
it is finished.。
That old story is done.。
The shroud has been lifted.。
Death is not a definition of humanity anymore.。
Yes, we will all die at some point,。
but death is not the full stop.。
It's merely a comma because Jesus rose again.。
And you're gonna rise again.。
And you're gonna be filled with new life。
and have eternal hope and salvation and joy。
in the presence of God.。
John enters the tomb and believes。
because he sees the shroud has been destroyed.。
It's a beautiful, powerful, poignant picture。
of what can take place through the resurrection power。
of Jesus Christ.。
And I love this because it welcomes us into a thought.。
A thought that this kind of freedom and liberation。
is not reserved for just those。
that have done something special throughout all of history,。
but it's actually something available for all.。
Our baptism candidates in just a little bit。
at 4.30 this afternoon, that's what they're celebrating.。
They're celebrating that their burial shroud。
has been removed.。
And they're going down publicly。
into the waters of Repulse Bay,。
the beautiful, dirty waters of Repulse Bay.。
(congregation laughing)。
And they're gonna be washed clean。
by the waters of the Spirit of God, amen?。
And it's not just our baptism candidates。
that are celebrating this.。
Millions of Christians around the world。
are celebrating this on this very day,。
that their own burial shroud has been removed。
because of what Jesus has done on that cross.。
And I want you to know this,。
that that's also what has happened for you too,。
whether you've ever realized it or not.。
Perhaps for some of you here, this is a new story.。
It's a new idea, but you resonate and connect with it。
because you felt that heaviness。
and you know what that burden of life can feel like.。
And maybe this is the first time you're ever hearing。
that something has taken place。
that has removed that heaviness and that burden from you.。
Jesus put it this way in the gospels.。
He said, "Anybody who's weary and tired,。
who's overburdened, who's worn down,。
you can come to me and I will give you rest."。
And he says, "My yoke is light, my burden easy."。
In other words, the heaviness of that shroud。
has been lifted, it has been removed,。
and therefore there's a new story for you.。
What is that new story?。
Well, interestingly, if you actually go back。
into the Isaiah passage,。
you'll see something quite beautiful.。
See, Isaiah doesn't just speak of this moment。
where the burial shroud was lifted.。
In the very same passage, he speaks about something else.。
Let me read this to you in verse six.。
He says, "On this mountain, the Lord Almighty。
will prepare a feast of rich food for all peoples,。
a banquet of aged wine, the best of meats,。
and the finest of wines for all the people."。
You see, the imagery that the Bible uses。
to talk about the fact that the burial shroud。
has been lifted is a table filled with harvest,。
a place of abundance that anyone can come to。
and partake in a meal that will give them life.。
Isaiah, having seen the burial shroud getting lifted。
some 700 years before the work of Jesus on the cross,。
then sees a picture of a banqueting table。
filled with the finest of food and the greatest of wine.。
And he says, "Isn't it amazing that the end of our story。
is not the burial shroud, but a table filled with abundance,。
that we get invited into a greater narrative。
than the one that we thought our humanity。
had invited us into?。
The table has been set."。
And this imagery of a table that's filled with abundance。
and fruitfulness and wonder and looks really good to eat,。
that story becomes the central narrative。
that the Bible uses to talk about the work。
of salvation in Christ.。
Jesus himself, at the beginning of the gospel,。
in his announcement of himself as more than just a prophet,。
he starts his ministry at a wedding in Cana,。
and a wedding banquet is there, and they run out of wine,。
and Jesus says, "Bring me, just bring me the ceremonial pots。
that are filled with water."。
And he's like, "I will show you that the greatest。
of all wine will be poured out for anyone to enjoy."。
And this beautiful picture of what this wine is like。
is really Jesus already before he sheds his blood。
on the cross saying, "This is what it's gonna be like.。
We're all gonna gather around an incredible table,。
and we're gonna feast for all eternity,"。
because this is the picture of what God is.。
God is not an angry despot who's filled with wrath。
and wanting to punish everybody.。
No, God is an abundant, glorious, loving, faithful father。
who sets the table for any prodigal son and daughter。
to come and partake with him.。
The burial shroud has been destroyed.。
Let me put it this way.。
The burial shroud has become a tablecloth,。
and that tablecloth now is a welcome to anyone。
who would put their trust in him.。
In fact, at the end of the biblical narrative,。
right at the end of the story,。
this is how the Bible finishes.。
Let me read this to you from Revelation 19.。
I love how this puts it.。
"Then I heard what sounded like a great multitude,。
like the roar of rushing waters。
and like the loud pearls of thunder, shouting,。
'Hallelujah, for our Lord God Almighty reigns!。
Let us rejoice and be glad and give him glory,。
for the wedding banquet of the Lamb has come,。
and his bride has made herself ready.。
Fine linen, bright and clean, was given her to wear."。
I love this.。
Revelation pitches the endable things,。
and they picture this wedding banquet of the Lamb,。
and it's saying that there's a great multitude of people。
who are welcome to this.。
And notice what it says.。
It says, "The burial shroud,"。
basically it doesn't say this,。
but the burial shroud has been set aside,。
"and new linen has been given."。
Because the bride is the church.。
The bride is those that have put their trust in Jesus Christ,。
and we're now wrapped up in fresh, bright, clean linen.。
Burial shroud destroyed.。
New linen, and a banquet given.。
So for you, the smallest of details。
can actually create the biggest of impact.。
A burial shroud set aside that actually draws us。
into the wonder of what this whole celebration is all about,。
and a table set in abundance for you.。
Let me challenge you here if you're a Christian.。
If you're a Christian,。
this whole thing is a challenge, I think.。
Because I think it's easy sometimes for us Christians。
in our relationship with Jesus。
to have those ups and downs that we have with Him,。
and sometimes think that He's the God of the no,。
that He's a God that holds back,。
that He's not coming through with the things。
that we want Him to come through for.。
And we might have a picture of the table。
that He sets before us, and it's barren.。
And if you feel a little bit like that as a Christian,。
that your relationship with Jesus。
is a little barren right now,。
that maybe because of some disappointments,。
or because you thought something would happen,。
or He would do something and it didn't feel like He did it,。
when you look at the table,。
you don't see a lot on that table at all.。
You look at a table of lack.。
I think the challenge of Easter is to tell you。
that actually it's a table of abundance.。
And perhaps for some of you。
who have been Christians for a long time,。
this is a challenge to you.。
Can you see your picture with the Lord?。
Can you see the table like this for you?。
If you're not a Christian here, we're so glad you're here.。
And I hope that maybe something that I've shared。
this afternoon or this morning has really challenged you,。
or maybe just opened yourself up。
to thinking about life slightly differently.。
And this invitation maybe has resonated with some of you.。
Maybe like me, you know what it is。
to feel the heaviness of life and the burden of things.。
Maybe that brokenness has been there for you,。
and maybe it's even resonating for you in this moment.。
And the wonder of Easter is that。
that burial shroud has been removed,。
and that just simply through trust in Jesus.。
Remember John standing on the outside of the tomb,。
and he knows, man, if I go inside there,。
and if I see the thing that I think I'm gonna see,。
then I'm gonna have to believe.。
Perhaps for some of you in this room,。
you're feeling it in your spirit right now.。
You're feeling your heart beating.。
You know that this might be the moment。
where you've come to a place。
where you're willing to put your trust in Him,。
your life in His hands.。
I'm not gonna promise you。
that life is suddenly gonna be easy.。
It's gonna be rainbows and butterflies.。
No.。
Sometimes when we give our lives to Jesus,。
things get challenged even more.。
Jesus described walking with Him like a narrow path,。
not a big, broad one.。
But He says it's a narrow path that leads to life,。
eternal life, the hope of forgiveness。
and the glory of restoration.。
And so I wanna pray for you.。
I wanna pray that perhaps。
that might be your journey here today.。
So I wonder whether we would all just bow our heads。
as we come into a time of prayer.。
Father, I'm so grateful for each person。
that's here in this room,。
that those that are watching online,。
those in our overflow.。
Lord, I'm grateful that we get。
to come around the table today together.。
And Lord, first of all,。
we thank you that the burial shroud has been removed.。
We thank you, Lord, that it's been set aside.。
It's destroyed.。
And Lord, we thank you that in the fact。
that you did that in the death and resurrection of Jesus。
now provides for us a open tomb。
that asks us whether we will enter and believe.。
Father, for the Christians here。
where perhaps they feel like their table is not abundant,。
perhaps they struggle to see the overflow。
of what's on this table in this moment。
in their relationship with you.。
I wanna pray that this Easter。
would be a breakthrough for them.。
I wanna pray that you would, Lord,。
bring them back to the abundance of your love。
and your heart and your grace.。
Lord, I wanna pray for breakthrough。
for those Christians here。
who need to see the table more full.。
And I pray that they would see。
that you have done everything。
and you've wrapped them in white, fresh linens.。
And I pray that they would find great joy。
in their relationship with you again here on Easter Sunday.。
And Father, I pray for anyone here。
who perhaps when they came in today。
would say that they weren't a Christian.。
And if that's you, I just wanna invite you。
just to this moment of just reflection.。
Lord, God loves you so much.。
No matter how hard things have been,。
no matter how difficult life is,。
he's here for you in this moment.。
And his invitation is the same as it was for John。
some 2,000 years ago.。
He's welcoming you in to believe.。
And he's saying, will you come in and believe today?。
And I know that for some of you in this room。
and watching online right now,。
this is gonna be a life-changing moment for you.。
As you come to just put your trust in him,。
the Bible says that we come into relationship with God。
as we repent and believe.。
The word repent just literally means。
to ask for God to cover us in his love,。
to recognize that we've hurt people。
and hurt ourselves at times,。
to even recognize that we've hurt him。
and to ask for forgiveness.。
And then out of that place of just recognizing。
the forgiveness that we have in a loving, merciful Lord,。
we then have the celebration and the joy。
of knowing that eternal life is before us.。
And so I wanna pray for any of you here today。
where that might be your journey.。
And what we wanna do is in a moment,。
we're gonna pray a prayer all together.。
And if you're praying that prayer for the first time,。
we want to invite you to come up。
and connect with us after the service,。
myself or other team members.。
We'd love to just talk with you about next steps。
and what living a life with Jesus is.。
You know, a life with Jesus is not just a decision。
you make in a service, that's the starting point.。
But it's actually a discipleship journey。
of great abundance and love and joy.。
And we wanna come around you and help you with that.。
So as we're all just heads bowed, eyes closed,。
I want us to all to pray this prayer.。
And if you wanna invite Jesus into your life。
for the very first time,。
then this is the prayer that you're praying to do so.。
But we're all gonna pray it as an encouragement together。
as the body of Christ.。
So let's pray this prayer.。
Pray after me, Lord Jesus,。
I wanna thank you for dying for me and for raising again.。
I thank you that the tomb was empty.。
And Lord, we thank you that the burial shroud。
that has been over me has been set aside.。
Set aside because of Jesus.。
Father, I ask that you would forgive me in this moment.。
Forgive me for the ways that I've hurt you,。
that I've hurt myself and that I've hurt others around me.。
And I thank you that you forgive me.。
And in this moment, I pray you would give me now。
your spirit, your Holy Spirit,。
filled with love, grace, strength for life ahead.。
And I thank you that I now have eternal life in you.。
Help me to walk every day in the humility of your service.。
Your service.。
And I pray this in Jesus' name.。
Can we put our hands together for anyone。
that may have prayed that prayer for the very first time?。
(congregation applauding)。
The beautiful thing.。
Would you stand with me?。
And we're gonna finish our time together。
with just one more response in worship。
as we celebrate the beauty and the wonder。
of what the Lord has done amongst us.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
