In the name of Jesus, everyone says, Amen.。
Can we thank our worship team and just awesome.。
Have a seat, have a seat.。
We're pretty packed in here today.。
So if you need some seats, there are some seats, I think somewhere, but there are some。
seats around.。
Again, welcome.。
If you're joining us online, if you're in our overflow, we love you guys.。
We're sorry that you're there, but we're glad you're with us and there is no second class。
Holy Spirit in the name of Jesus.。
Amen.。
So we're glad that you're with us as well.。
In 2014, something happened here at the Vine.。
It was in the summer of 2014.。
Something happened here at the Vine that so changed, completely changed my expectations。
of the work of Christ in the world today.。
On this particular Sunday, a 25 year old French lady from a Muslim background walked into。
Pacific Coffee downstairs in search of her Sunday morning caffeine fix.。
She had no idea that she had just walked into a church.。
She thought she was just coming in to get a cup of coffee, but she was struck immediately。
by the reality that this Pacific Coffee was the most popular Pacific Coffee she had ever。
seen in her life.。
It was filled with lots and lots of people who were chatting and laughing and hanging。
out and talking.。
And she was used to her Sunday morning caffeine fix normally being a quiet, sleepy kind of。
vibe, but here it was loud and raucous.。
She grabbed her coffee and she couldn't find a seat in Pacific Coffee because it was so。
full.。
So she went and she stood by the stairs at the back of our Pacific Coffee, by the stairs。
that go up into the rest of our building.。
And as she's standing there sipping her coffee, marveling at how a rock concert has just finished。
in this space, suddenly a asylum seeker, one of our asylum seekers kids trips and falls。
down the stairs right in front of her.。
And immediately she looks around to see if the parent is there and if the parent is going。
to react and respond, but she couldn't see a parent.。
And so she turned and she knelt down to help this kid up.。
Now, thankfully he wasn't seriously hurt at all, but she helps him up.。
And because she speaks French, that's her mother language, she just starts speaking。
to him in French.。
I think when you panic and something like that happens, you just default to your natural。
language.。
She started speaking to him in French.。
Amazingly though, this little boy was from West Africa and French was his mother tongue。
as well.。
And so he was able to talk to her in French and he grabs her by the hand and he starts。
walking her up the stairs.。
And she thinks that Pacific coffee must have a second level to it and that the parents。
are up there somewhere.。
And so she follows him as he's leading her up the stairs.。
He leads her up the first floor, up to the second floor.。
He leads her into the doors right here, right as the worship is starting for our 11 o'clock。
service.。
And as he leads her in, he then lets go of her hand and he runs away.。
And she's standing there wondering what is going on.。
For the next 90 minutes, the majority of the next 90 minutes, she's just stood right there。
and she's crying and crying and crying and she has no idea why she's crying.。
She describes it to me just a few months later as if this warmth had just come over her.。
And she said she had never felt a sense of love or peace like that in her life ever before.。
At the end of the service, she comes forward speaking in French, trying to find somebody。
who speaks French.。
Thankfully, there was a French family that was sitting just a couple of rows towards。
the front and we were able to connect them together and over the process of a conversation。
right there and then at the front of the church, this Muslim lady gives her life to Jesus.。
Just a few months later, she does Alpha for the first time.。
She does our French Alpha.。
We were running a French speaking Alpha at that time.。
She commits, further commits her life to Christ through Alpha.。
I had the privilege of baptizing her just a few months later.。
She then was one of the leaders on our next French Alpha that we ran and she had the privilege。
of leading some other people to Jesus.。
She then came and stood in front of our whole church on a Sunday and told them the story。
that I've just told you and then she left us just a few months later and she's now living。
and working again in France.。
Now I would love to stand here this morning and tell you that story and tell you that。
the reason why this lady gave her life to Jesus is because the Vine Church has an amazing。
evangelistic program.。
That we have trained people to be on the lookout for strangers entering into Pacific Coffee。
on a Sunday morning.。
I would like to tell you that we've trained all our asylum seeker kids to fake fall down。
the stairs.。
They're like little stunt kids that fake fall down the stairs so that they can speak in。
French to random French speaking people who walk in.。
I would like to tell you that we have brought all of our French families to the front rows。
of the church just in case a French person comes into this church.。
There's no Jesus.。
I'd like to tell you that because then I could pretend that the reason why this person gave。
the life to Jesus is because the Vine is so awesome and that we have such a great evangelistic。
program but I love the fact that I can't stand here and tell you that.。
I love the fact that the only reason that that woman came to Christ on that day was。
because God believed it was her time.。
Because God did it all.。
That there was, I mean think about it, coming into this particular Pacific Coffee for a。
caffeine fix.。
So busy that she couldn't sit so she had to stand at the back.。
It just so happens that a French speaking refugee kid is able to connect with her who。
just randomly brings her up and makes her stand right there and then runs away.。
And that there happened to be a French family that was willing to share the gospel with。
her.。
I mean we can't make this stuff up.。
This is stuff that can only ever be done by a God who is able to do immeasurably more。
than we could ever ask or imagine.。
And when something like that happens you can only stand back and go God is amazing.。
Not the vine is amazing.。
Our evangelistic programs are amazing.。
God who is able to do more than we could ever ask or imagine and because God did it that。
way.。
That story is still one of my most favorite stories to share in some 15 years of pastoring。
here at the church.。
The apostle Paul knew something of a God who is just like that.。
The God who is able to do more than we could ever ask or imagine.。
In fact as he finishes his prayer in Ephesians 3, that majestic glorious prayer that we looked。
at last week, he decides to finish it by shifting the focus of his prayer back to this God.。
Which is important for Paul because he's just prayed a passionate pastoral prayer for his。
church.。
I mean he needs to spend all this time saying my hope for you is that out of the glorious。
riches of Christ Jesus that he would strengthen you with power by his Spirit in your inner。
being.。
I mean my prayer for you is that you would know that Christ lives in your heart and because。
of that you would be able to grasp how wide and high and deep and long the vastness of。
the love of Christ for you.。
And because of that you would know that love, experience that love, feel that love so that。
you would be filled to the whole measure of the wholeness of Christ.。
He's just prayed this passionate pastoral prayer for his people to experience God in。
a way that they've never experienced it before.。
But he gets to the end of the prayer and he realizes I can't finish there because God。
is always more than what we experience of him.。
And despite the fact that he's passionately gone I want you to really experience him.。
What he's also saying to his church is but I don't want to limit and I don't want you。
to limit your expectations of God just by what you've experienced of him.。
And so he shifts the end of his prayer back to the wonder and the majesty and the mystery。
and the glory of a God who's far greater than we could ever experience.。
I want to read it to you.。
He says this in Ephesians 3 verse 20 and 21.。
Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than we could ask or imagine according。
to his power that is at work within us to him be the glory in the church and in Christ。
Jesus throughout all generations forever and ever and the whole church said amen.。
This is known as a doxology.。
What it is is a exclamation that praises a characteristic of God that when read should。
cause you to enter into a place of worship as well.。
Paul writes these doxologies throughout his letters and there are many that he includes.。
This one is one of my particular favorites and I love it for one simple reason.。
Paul is challenging his church deeply on something.。
He's asking them actually through this doxology a very important question.。
It's an important question because he's about to enter into three more chapters in the letter,。
chapters four, five and six where he's going to speak about the nature that we have and。
the way that we should live in respect to God.。
Before we get there he finishes chapter three by asking his church a critical question.。
Who exactly is it that you worship?。
That's what he wants to ask his church and that's what I sense the Holy Spirit wants。
to ask you here this morning.。
Who exactly is it that you worship?。
And this is an important question for Paul because before he tells his church how they。
should now live in response to this God, he wants to make sure that they're worshiping。
the right God.。
And as you come into church today you might be like, "Well, of course I'm worshiping the。
right God, Andrew.。
I'm in a Christian church today and not somewhere else.。
I believe in Jesus.。
Of course I'm worshiping the right God."。
Paul's being a lot more nuanced than that.。
A lot more actually I think challenging than that.。
And when I read this doxology I find myself deeply challenged.。
I've read this for years and every time I read it I'm reminded of my own deficiencies.。
I'm actually reminded of how I so often can drift in my worship away from worshiping the。
God of Scripture and settling instead for worshiping the God that I have experienced.。
Are you tracking with me here?。
Now I want you to track with this because I think we can all make this mistake in our。
Christian lives.。
That we end up so much worshiping the God that we have actually tangibly had an experience。
of, but we kind of settle or we see that as the roof, the ceiling of our understanding。
of who He is.。
And so our worship, the God that we're worshiping, is essentially a God that we have experienced。
rather than the God of the nature and the character and the power and the fullness of。
how Scripture describes Him to us.。
And this is very true for us particularly when we've been disappointed by God.。
And if you're anything like me in this room, you've been disappointed by God sometimes.。
When we get disappointed by God or maybe God hasn't come through like we expected or our。
experience of God is not like the experience of the person next to us and they seem to。
cry every time they worship, they seem to get the gift of tongues and I don't seem to。
get that.。
And we begin to compare our experience with God, with somebody else's experience of God,。
and we end up worshiping a God limited by our experience and we can feel sometimes dejected。
in that because our experience is not someone else's experience and Paul writes to the church。
and says, "Hang on a sec.。
I want you to experience God.。
I mean I've just prayed this majestic prayer that you would feel His love like you've never。
felt Him before.。
Think in my being desires for you to experience Him in the greatest way you could ever experience。
Him but never limit your thinking or your expectations.。
Particularly never limit your worship just based on how you've experienced Him.。
It's got to be so much more."。
So if I was to ask Paul's question through this doxology to us as a modern church in。
a modern way, perhaps I'd ask it like this.。
Are you worshiping the God of your truth above the God of the truth?。
Say that again.。
Are you worshiping the God of your truth over and above the God of the truth?。
Have you limited God simply to your own experience of Him whether good or bad or are you able。
to worship Him even beyond what it is that you may have experienced?。
Paul writes to the church, "Oh, now to Him who is able to do whether you've experienced。
a lot or a little, far more than you could ever have thought.。
That's the God to worship."。
I want to actually show you how Paul does this.。
I'm going to break this down in this doxology because I think it's really important that。
we wrestle with the challenge of this but also I believe because we want to raise glory。
in the church and I think this is the whole of Paul's point.。
He talks about three elements in this doxology.。
The first element is you.。
Can you see that on the screen?。
Wow, modern technology, look at that.。
By the way, I've said this before, I'm going to say it again.。
I am terrible at writing but just track with the ugliness of my words written down and。
follow what we're doing here.。
When Paul says God is able to do immeasurably more than we could ever ask or imagine, there's。
an assumption Paul's making in that statement.。
Do you know what that assumption is?。
It's not a rhetorical question, it is actually a question.。
What is the assumption he's making?。
Because if God can do more than you ever ask or imagine, what is He actually assuming?。
That you are asking and that you are imagining, which maybe for some churches that's a big。
assumption.。
But he's assuming of his church in Ephesus that they are actually doing two things.。
That they are asking, which is this idea of prayer, and that they are, the word he uses。
in the Greek, this idea of imagine, which we could think of it as like a dream, like。
dreaming or like a vision or the way in which we think, these things.。
The idea of our mind being engaged in life and what we hope and dream for life.。
Paul's assumption is that the church that you are praying and you're dreaming, that。
you are on your knees praying out for God to do some things in your life to shape and。
to work your life in certain ways, that you have a passion and a heart to believe that。
prayer can change things.。
And that you're not just praying for yourself, but you're praying for our city of Hong Kong。
in such an important time as this and that the church together is praying and believing.。
He's assuming that that's what's happening.。
He's also assuming that you're not just praying, but you're dreaming.。
That you've got some ideas, that you're thinking, that the thoughts of your mind are hopeful,。
that you're dreaming for a better future for Hong Kong, that you're dreaming for a better。
future for yourself and for your family.。
That that future is not just some future out there, but is rooted in the kingdom and rooted。
in God's heart, that you're imagining what it would look like if the kingdom of God came。
to earth just like Jesus prayed about in his prayer, that it would be on earth as it is。
in heaven.。
That's what's going on in your mind and your heart that you're passionate about.。
This idea of praying and this idea of imagining and dreaming, Paul says this important thing.。
He says, "According to the power that is at work in you."。
So he says that there's a power that God does to help us to pray and help us to dream, which。
is really important.。
You're not praying and you're not dreaming or imagining in a vacuum.。
The power he mentions here is that power he's just prayed about in the prayer in a few verses。
earlier, that you would be strengthened with power by the spirit in your inner being.。
He's like, "That power is already at work in you, for you have already been rooted and。
established in love."。
And because that power is at work in you, you can trust that the prayers that you're。
praying are on the heart of God.。
You can trust that the dreams and the imaginations that you hold in your heart have been placed。
there and are being fanned into flame by the spirit of God.。
It is a wonderful, beautiful thing.。
God doesn't ask his church to pray and leave it in a vacuum.。
He asks his church to pray and he asks his church to dream for a better future, but then。
he puts his power inside of us to enable us to do that in a way that brings true fruit。
in this world.。
Isn't that beautiful?。
No one thinks that's beautiful.。
Is that beautiful?。
Now notice, he then says this though.。
He says, "That's all that is assumed here."。
But notice this, he then says, "But there is this role that God plays."。
And I'm going to use my high school level maths here.。
There's a sign in maths, greater than.。
Do you see this?。
This is greater than.。
Look at that.。
He says that God, here's what you need to know about God.。
God is able to do greater than, more than you could ever ask, and more than you could。
ever dream.。
And he's saying if you want to worship God, who exactly is the God that you worship?。
He's like, "You have to worship the one who is abundantly, immeasurably more than you。
could ever dream, more than you could ever imagine."。
Because he is so grand, so vast.。
His ways are higher than your ways.。
His thoughts are greater than your thoughts.。
And if you've just limited him to your own experience of him, you need to break yourself。
out of that.。
And he says, "Here's how you do it.。
You believe in a God who is immeasurably more than you have ever dreamt or imagined."。
What a glorious thing he's saying here.。
Now I want you to see this.。
The problem we have in the church, the problem I think we have in us, I want that one.。
That one, thank you.。
The problem we have is that we get stuck, notice this, on this side of the equation。
I think all the time.。
And we get stuck on that side of the equation for I think important reason.。
Listen to this.。
It is hard to believe in a God who can do immeasurably more than we could ever ask and。
imagine if we don't first believe in a God who can actually do what we ask and imagine.。
Are you with me?。
I mean it's hard, right, to take the jump over that equation to an immeasurably more。
God if we're already struggling to have the faith to believe that he could actually do。
what we believe that he could do.。
That we actually believe that he could answer the prayers that we're currently praying.。
And this is why this doxology for me is so challenging because I have to reflect on my。
own faith and ask, "Do I really believe that God could do even just what I'm praying, let。
alone immeasurably more?。
I just need to get through the first part of the equation here."。
If you're anything like me, there's been seasons in your life and maybe you're in one of those。
seasons right now where you're actually struggling to believe that God can answer your prayers.。
You're actually honestly struggling to believe that he could really come through with a vision。
or a hope or a dream that you might have.。
When that happens, maybe you haven't given up on your relationship with God, but here's。
what happens.。
You end up settling for worshipping what I would argue is the not enough God.。
No, you still believe in Jesus.。
You still come to church every Sunday.。
But because perhaps your prayers haven't been answered on a regular basis.。
Perhaps you took that step of faith out into a business venture and it didn't work out.。
Perhaps you invited that person out on a date and they said no.。
Perhaps you tried to do something in faith and you felt and you had all your prayer partners。
there, everybody prayed, everybody said, "Yeah, this is what you should do."。
And you took that big step of faith and it didn't work out and that hurt.。
And you felt a little bit let down by God and you felt like God was on mute in your。
life.。
And because that was so painful, because it was so public and you had done that step of。
faith, you've actually kind of stepped back from that and you've said, "I don't know if。
God does always answer prayers because he hasn't always answered mine.。
I still believe in him, but I'm not sure if he's really enough."。
And so some of us get stuck on the first side of the equation here because we're actually。
worshipping the not enough God.。
And maybe we never would have put a label on it until today, but if you're honest with。
yourself, you know you're part of that camp.。
God is just not enough for me.。
The good news is I think that most of us kind of push through that reality at some point。
in our lives and we end up then worshipping what I would call the just enough God.。
And the just enough God sounds a lot better than the not enough God, but it is still a。
deficient God that we worship.。
The just enough God is the God that actually does answer the prayers that we pray and does。
come through for the dreams that we hold.。
I mean, track with this.。
If I had said to you that there is a church in Hong Kong where everybody in that church。
believes that God answers prayers and God comes through on dreams, I think you'd want。
to be a part of that church, amen?。
Wouldn't you want to go to a church where everybody in that church actually believes。
that Jesus answers prayers, actually believes that God has visions and dreams and those。
things can actually happen in the world?。
Wouldn't that be an amazingly exciting church to be a part of?。
It would, but it would be a church that's worshipping the wrong God.。
If I was to say to you at the beginning of this sermon that God could answer every single。
prayer you've ever prayed and come through for every dream that you could ever dream。
and are you happy to worship that God, I'm sure all of us would have said, "Sign me up。
on the bottom line.。
That's the God I want to worship, amen?"。
We think so, yes.。
In fact, we think that that's the very definition of what it means to be a Christian.。
"Oh man, I'm a Christian.。
I actually believe that God can answer prayer.。
I actually believe that He does come through in dreams.。
I mean, that's what I'm supposed to believe, right?。
I do believe.。
My level of faith is at that level."。
And we think that that's right and Paul comes and says, "If that's what you believe, you're。
still worshipping the wrong God.。
You're worshipping the wrong God because you have limited Him still to what you're praying。
for and what you're believing in.。
And even though His Spirit is at work in those things, as he's just said, His power is at。
work in you.。
If you limit God to just answering your prayers and just coming through for your dreams, you've。
still created a ceiling for God.。
You've still placed Him in your box.。
It's still a God of your truth."。
And Paul wants to pull his church broader and bigger than that.。
And he's saying, "You've got to worship not the not enough God, not the just enough God.。
The God that He calls us to worship is," really long word that takes ages to write, "the immeasurably。
more God."。
He's like, "This is the God that you are to worship."。
Man that's bad writing, but you know what I'm trying to say.。
That looks like the immeasurably mowed God.。
No, He's not the immeasurably mowed.。
He's like, "This is the God."。
Like, if there's a God you are to believe in your church, it's not just one that's limited。
to the ceiling of what you can pray and what you can believe for, even though you can pray。
and believe for some great stuff.。
No, He's always bigger, always greater, always more vast.。
His ways are always higher than our ways.。
And if you're going to worship a God, you worship the immeasurably more God.。
The one who can do way more than you could ever ask or imagine.。
The one who can take a 25-year-old French girl who has never stood foot in a church。
before and so fill her with the love of Christ that she would come forward and say, "What。
is going on here?"。
And God could save her because that's what God does.。
We never prayed for that.。
We never asked for that.。
I want to be honest with you.。
I don't think we ever had the faith for that until it happened.。
God is the immeasurably more God.。
Now that becomes our ceiling.。
I expect that now at the Vine.。
By the way, if you're a stranger in this room, welcome.。
It's good to have you with us.。
You're about to get saved.。
It's awesome.。
We're so glad you're here.。
That's now my ceiling, but now God's light.。
You've got to believe for more than that then because he's always the immeasurably more God.。
Are you with me?。
Are you tracking with this?。
Now then Paul finishes everything that he's saying.。
He finishes it by saying there's a third element.。
He said, "Then there's this reality of the church."。
I love this.。
And he says, "The church, when God is the immeasurably more God and the church worships。
the immeasurably more God," he says, "then glory is seen in that church."。
Isn't that beautiful?。
It's almost as if a church has limited itself to either the not enough God or the just enough。
God, then it's going to be lacking the glory of Christ in it.。
If you want the church to see and to feel and reveal the glory of Christ, then we have。
to worship the immeasurably more God.。
Because when you worship the immeasurably more God, his glory, Paul says, is seen in。
the church.。
It's seen in the church because when that French lady stood in front of a room of this。
size and shared the story that I shared with you, I mean it was hopefully impactful when。
I shared it, could you imagine when she shared it?。
Worship on that Sunday in this place was just off the records, off the charts.。
Because glory was seen in the church.。
And why was it glory?。
Because the church could not take any credit for it.。
It happens and everybody stood back and said, "Only God could have done that."。
And if only God could have done it, we worship that God.。
We're not worshiping a platform or a speaker or a type of worship or a preacher, we're。
worshiping God because that could only have ever happened by one who is able to do immeasurably。
more than we could ever ask or imagine.。
And when we see it take place, how can glory not be seen in the church?。
How can the church not respond in saying, "Praise God, you are glorified," as Paul said,。
"in Christ Jesus," that the works of Christ are raised in the midst.。
The way that a church can glory God is simply by providing an arena in which that the work。
of Jesus Christ can take effect.。
That's how a church glorifies God.。
It actually gets out of the way and enables Christ to do His work.。
And that's what we want to do here today.。
And as much as it was important for you to understand what Paul's finishing his prayers。
with here, and I hope as we've mapped it out for you, it's inspired you and challenged。
you, but the reason why we've done it here this morning is because of what it leads us。
to.。
It leads us to actually providing an arena in which the work of Jesus Christ can actually。
take effect amongst us.。
For quite some time now as a community of leaders here, we've been praying for this。
Sunday and we've been praying for this Sunday because we knew that we were going to be setting。
aside time now for prayer and ministry.。
We want to actually lean into the radical idea of the immeasurably more God that is。
amongst us.。
What we're going to do in a moment is I'm going to invite you all to stand and we've。
been praying for what are some things that we can pray for you for and lay hands on you.。
Our elders, our pastoral team, our prayer, innocences and prayer ministry team have prepared。
themselves for today.。
And what's going to happen is we're going to name a couple of things that we feel the。
Holy Spirit wants to minister to our people in today.。
And if that resonates for you, we're going to ask you to have the courage today.。
If you're in this room, if you're in the lower house here to come and stand here at the front。
in the middle.。
If you're in the upper house, we have space at the front set aside today for this.。
You can come and stand at the front in the upper house.。
If it gets too busy up there, then you can actually come down to here as well.。
But there is a prayer team with elders up there as well.。
If you're in the overflow today, you can come inside here for prayer.。
If you're online, you can contribute in this as well.。
You can send your prayers to us at prayer@thevine.org.hk.。
And we would love to be able to pray with you in this moment as well.。
But we're going to take some time to actually put what we've been preaching into practice.。
God is able to do immeasurably more than you could ever ask and imagine.。
And as I was praying and preparing for this ministry time, I felt God say this to me,。
"Andrew, there are things that I want to do in this church that you have yet asked for。
or thought about.。
You haven't even asked or thought about them yet.。
There are things that I want to do in this church that you haven't yet even thought about。
or asked for."。
And as he spoke that to me, I felt like he was speaking it to you.。
And I want to speak this over you.。
There are some things that God wants to do in you that you have yet asked for or even。
thought about.。
And we're going to make the space for that to happen now.。
So let me start in prayer.。
Father, we are so grateful.。
So grateful that Paul would write to his church to challenge them to have a belief in a God。
who is not the not enough God or the just enough God, but the immeasurably more God.。
And that's the God that we here at The Vine, that's what we believe in.。
And that's the God that we're now going to pray to and believe for on behalf of the people。
in this room.。
Lord, I thank you that no one is here by mistake this afternoon.。
And Lord, you love these people so deeply and so intimately and so completely.。
And what a privilege it is now that we get to lay our hands on one another and to pray。
in faith for healing and restoration and release from anything that is physically ailing the。
people in this room.。
And we thank you for that.。
In Jesus' name.。
All right, well, if you would like to receive prayer for physical healing right now in the。
upper house, come forward in the lower house.。
Please just come forward and we're going to lay our hands and pray for you.。
God bless you and God bless your family.。
God bless you guys.。
God bless you guys.。
God bless you.。
God bless you.。
God bless you.。
God bless you.。
God bless you.。
God bless you.。
God bless you.。
God bless you.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
(gentle music)。
