the sort of centrality of the gospel, a little bit about a model, practical,。
and then a little bit about one of the ways in which we're living this out here at the Vine.。
Is that helpful for you? Can I pray for you to begin with?。
Father, I thank you for every person here. I thank you, Lord, for the work that you're doing in their。
lives. I thank you, Lord, that you are at work shaping and molding us to become more like Christ。
Jesus. Lord, as we take a look at why justice is so key to that growth within us to become more like。
you. Father, I pray that you would do something in this room a little bit like those disciples on the。
walk to Emmaus, who after hearing Jesus open scripture to them, had these words together.。
They said, "Were not our hearts burning within us?" Lord, I want to pray for the Vine here, Lord,。
that you would reignite for those where the light was there before, but maybe has gone a bit dark,。
and that you would birth fresh light for those who are perhaps hearing this for the first time.。
That we would be ones whose hearts would burn within us for justice, burn within us for the。
gospel, burn within us because you, Jesus, opened the glorious picture of scripture to us. And we。
pray this in Jesus' name. Everyone says? All right. So now I'm going to have to ask for your forgiveness。
up front. I'm going to be using an iPad. I'm old now, so the technology I'm not always good with.。
I also have a terrible way of writing. I should have been a doctor. Everybody knows that doctors。
have the worst handwriting ever. You can never read a prescription. Oh, that shouldn't be there.。
How do I get a new page? We should have sorted that out. Hang on a sec. Let me do this.。
Bye, bye, bye. Can't all see it. That was the first service. But you can see how messy it is, right?。
It's not on the screen yet? Oh, okay. All right. Well, the guys did a good job. Okay.。
How do I now go away? This is why I told you I'm not very good. It's frozen. Okay.。
Is it frozen? It's frozen.。
Anyway, there it is. That's you in the middle there. And okay, it's just crashed. All right.。
My friend, could you help me? All right. This is a young person. He's young and trendy and。
understands technology. And he's now going to solve the issue we have. Anyway, justice. So。
talk amongst yourselves. Say, what does justice mean to you?。
I'm not kidding, right? I don't actually mean this. This is quite fun though, because as we do。
unpack this, there's a lot in this. So I'm going to need your attention as we go through. And,。
you know, it's a beautiful thing when you let Scripture really drive your thinking and really。
drive the way that you see things. And I think when you see the bigger picture of Scripture,。
not just the immediacy of like one passage, but when you step back and see the bigger picture of。
it, it really does change a lot. It really does shift a lot in the way in which we think and act.。
And so that's why I'm excited to be able to do that together. How are we doing?。
Oh, you are amazing. Can we give that guy a round of applause?。
Okay. So we're going to start at the beginning of the story in a garden.。
So the beginning of the biblical is that, hey, look at that. The beginning of the biblical story。
is Genesis 1 and 2, this idea of the garden. Now we know that in Genesis 1 and 2, God does so much。
to establish his heart for the world, to establish what he wants in creation. He creates literally。
within those chapters. And at the pinnacle of his creation, which is important for us,。
is this idea of humanity. Right? So there is this humanity that he creates, and he says that we are。
made in this really important thing, in the image of God. Now, scholars have debated for years what。
this image of God means, but to summarize it for you, it's essentially about relationship and。
character. Being made as humans in the image of God means that we are in relationship with him,。
I mean that we find our fullness in that relationship with him. And we image, we mirror,。
we reflect something of his character, his nature, his integrity, and who he is to the world around。
us. And what you see in Genesis 1 and 2 is the outworking of this image. And I'll unpack that。
for you a little bit here as we go. But for now, it's important that your very creation as a human。
being is this invitation to image God. And we are the only things in creation that are labeled as。
his image. Now, what you see in Genesis 1 and 2 is God do this really interesting thing. God comes。
and he defines for humanity what is right and wrong. So, one of the very first things that he。
does in Genesis 1 and 2, when he's created Adam, and he speaks to Adam, and creates Eve, and brings。
them together, is he begins to define for them what is right and wrong. How God defines it,。
how God sees it in the world that he's created. And he gives them some freedom. He says, "You can。
do this, you can do that, you can do this." And then he gives them some boundaries. He says not。
to do this, not to do that. This is God's way of saying, "Look, there's right and there's wrong。
within this world that you are living in right now. And if you understand that, and you live by。
my definitions of what right is wrong, then things will grow and flourish." So, what he does after he。
calls them, after he defines what is right and wrong, he calls them to do this really important。
thing. He wants them to rule over creation. So, in other words, he says, "Look, I haven't just。
created you to do whatever you want. I've defined for you what is right and wrong. I've created you。
to be in my image, and part of you imaging me is to rule over creation." Now, you remember in the。
Holy Spirit course, the idea of disorder to order. God does this crazy thing in Genesis 1 and 2. He。
actually empowers humanity to mirror, to image that work in how we now steward the creation.。
Steward everything that he's placed around us, and all of those relationships. We now get the。
great opportunity to show the world the disorder to order by how we now live. Are you following this。
so far? So, you are made in the image of God. God has defined for us what is right and wrong,。
and we are invited to rule over creation in that way. Now, here's what happens next. As we're ruling。
over creation, God establishes what we call here four relational contexts. Now, these four relational。
contexts are essential to every human being, and let me map them out for you. We don't have time to。
go into the Scriptures to look at them, but they're there. You can look during the week. Us and God,。
us and ourselves, so how we see ourselves, our identity, us and others around us, and finally,。
us in creation. So, God creates us and gives us these four relational contexts, our relationship。
with Him, our relationship with ourselves, how we see ourselves, our relationship with the others。
around us, and the relationship with the creation. And He does that, and He brings us into that,。
and He says, "As you're my image, bringing disorder to order, you're going to look after,。
you're going to steward this creation you're giving under my definition of what is right and wrong."。
And at the end of Genesis 1 and 2, you see this picture, which the Bible describes as perfect。
shalom, or what we often use here at the Vine, this phrase flourishing, but it's this idea,。
not that it's peace, like you're going to chill out with a pina colada on a beach,。
but the idea of wholeness and fullness and everything just as it's meant to be. So,。
by the time you get to the end of Genesis 1 and 2, you've got humanity, image of God,。
you've got God's definition of right and wrong, you've got us with a role to play in stewarding。
creation, and you've got these relational contexts at work in our lives, and God stands back from it。
all and says, "That is very good." Now, I want you to see something really important here in what。
I've just mapped out in Genesis 1 and 2. There is no concept at all of justice or injustice at the。
beginning of the story, because there's no need for it. There's no need for justice. The only。
reason you need justice is because there's injustice. Does that make sense? Well, there's。
no injustice in Genesis 1 and 2. This is the way God has created the world to be. This is His design,。
His desire for humanity to be, and when we are living in that way, things are just as they should。
be, and that is shalom. Make sense? However, we of course know what happens next, don't we? So,。
as well as a garden, we know what happens next is there's a fall. So, where humanity and God are the。
primary characters within the first part of Genesis 1 and 2, as soon as we get into Genesis 3, a new。
character emerges, and this is Satan. And Satan comes and does something which you've got to make。
sure that you've track with when you're reading the story. Satan basically convinces Adam and Eve。
that God is holding out on them, that God is not telling them everything. When God put the boundary。
of not having fruit of the knowledge of the tree of good and evil, Satan comes along and says, "Well,。
why doesn't he want you to eat from that tree? Here's why he doesn't want you to eat from that。
tree. If you eat from that tree, you'll no longer be the image of God. You'll be God's yourselves."。
So, Satan's trickery is to say, "Image of God is not what humanity has been created for.。
You've actually been created to be God's yourselves." This was the temptation for Adam and Eve.。
This was the sin that they stepped into. No longer that they were happy just to image the character。
and the integrity of God and allow God to be sovereign and control. The taking of the fruit,。
the sin that happened was humanity saying, "We want to do this ourselves.。
We want to be God's. We want to be not just image of Him. We want to be Him." And what this does。
is really interesting because here's the first thing that takes place. Once humanity sin,。
once they take that establishment of saying, "We want to be actually like God's." Here's what happens.。
Humanity is now defining what's right and wrong. Now, this is where the problems all begin.。
Think about it for a moment. Before God defined what was right and wrong, now humanity through。
sin are basically saying, "We are the ones that are going to define what's right and wrong. Here's。
what will happen to every human being if you ask them to define right and wrong. Here's the thing。
that will happen. We will always define it in a way that benefits us." And this is what we begin。
to see in the cycle of Scripture. Humanity basically, we are constantly redefining what。
is right and wrong so that we gain an advantage over the expense of the other. And this becomes。
the central place where injustice begins to happen in the world. If you give humanity the power to。
decide what they think is right and wrong, humanity is always going to choose what's great for。
themselves personally, even if that means it's not great for their neighbor next to them. This is why。
inequality exists. This is why not everybody is free. This is why there are people that are not。
just poor but are vulnerable and they are marginalized and they are exploited because。
we have a tendency now as human beings to look after number one, even if that means at the expense。
of somebody else. And what you see happening in Genesis 3 is immediately two things. Number one,。
you immediately see personal advantage. So Adam and Eve immediately want to find their own personal。
advantage, even if that comes at the expense of the other. And number two, you see this thing。
called self-preservation. What's the very first thing that happens when Adam takes the fruit。
sins, God shows up and says, "What have you done?" Here's what Adam does. He goes, "God, come here."。
He goes, "God, you need to hear this. The woman that you put in here with me, she made me do this."。
That's the first thing that Adam does. He basically throws his wife under the bus. The first marital。
strife ever happens here. He throws his wife under the bus and he says, "The woman you put here with。
me." So he's kind of blaming God too. Think about this. This is really important. The very first。
act of injustice in all human history is the disempowerment of a woman for the empowerment。
of a man. All the sisters in the room should be going, "Mm-hmm." You should be like, "Preach on that.。
Preach that one, Andrew." But are you following this? Now, this is really important because if。
that's the first injustice that has ever happened, the disempowerment of a woman for the empowerment。
of a man because look at it here. There's personal advantage and self-preservation. Basically, Adam。
was willing to throw his wife under the bus so that he could live, thinking that that might be the way。
to get back into God's good graces. Suddenly, injustice begins. And that injustice of men。
exploiting women has happened down all of history ever since. And let's be honest, it's still rife。
in our world today. That's the starting point of injustice. As soon as humanity begins to take into。
their power what is only God's power and they begin to redefine what is right and wrong, we begin to。
look after ourselves first of all, and then we begin to exploit the people around us. Now, here's what。
happens after all that takes place. Once there's this personal advantage, once there's this kind of。
self-preservation, it actually leads us into a place where what you see is injustice begin.。
And as injustice begins, everything begins to break down. And what you see here is... Can you。
see this little pie chart? Yeah, it's still there. That's cool. So one, two, three, four. Those four。
relational contexts that were established in Genesis 1 and 2. This is really important.。
As soon as humanity starts to redefine right and wrong, as soon as they look after themselves at。
the expense of others, here's what takes place. Over time, all four of those relational contexts。
immediately break down. Suddenly, there is a breakdown in their relationship with God. They。
hide from Him in the garden. There's a breakdown in their relationship with themselves. They suddenly。
feel shame for what they've done. They realize they're naked, right? And they become shamed.。
There's suddenly a breakdown in their relationship with one another. Adam throwing Eve under the bus.。
And there's suddenly a breakdown in their relationship with creation. Now creation is。
going to cause pain for them when before creation and them were in perfect harmony together. So all。
four of those relationships are suddenly smeared with injustice. And the great question from this。
point in the story forward is, "How do we fix this?" Like this world is now a far away way. This is just。
the first three chapters of Scripture, by the way. But now the world is so far away from what it was。
originally created to be. Now, the good thing is that we have a God who responds. So what happens。
next in the story where there's been a fall, there is now a call. God responds. And here's how God。
responds. He actually calls a new family. He calls Abraham and his family. And He says to Abraham and。
his family, "Leave the place that you're in right now, this place that is filled with all of this。
pain and all this injustice." He said, "I'm going to move you into a new land. And in that new land,。
we're going to start again. And there's going to be a generation, a nation, the nation of Israel,。
ultimately, that will flow out from you, that will begin to model to the world again what this。
justice might look like." It's really interesting. Injustice happens by one biological family.。
God begins the story of justice from another one biological family. Takes Abraham with his wife。
and with everything they had, and they move outwards into the new. And then from this point。
forward in Scripture, from Genesis 4, basically Genesis 4 onwards, God defines this Israel.。
He defines this group of people with three things, two positive, one negative. Let me show you this.。
This is really important. And this gets repeated in Scripture all the time. The first thing is,。
He says, "I call you to righteousness." This in the Hebrew is the word tzedakah.。
And tzedakah is a very important word. When we think of righteousness normally in the English。
language, here's what we think. We think about our moral behavior. So we think, "If I'm righteous,。
or if I'm a righteous person, it's because I have good moral behavior or good standing,。
or I'm a good person and I do good things." The Hebrew concept of righteousness, tzedakah,。
is actually not about individual morality or individual ethics. It's much more about the。
communal environment and the communal ethics. So when the Lord says, "You will be my righteous。
people," He's not just saying individually you're going to be really good people. He's saying,。
"As a community together, as a nation together, as a group of people together, you're going to。
begin to image me again. You're going to go back to what it is that I've called you to go."。
If you look at the breakdown so far, I'm going to take you back where I will define for you what。
is right and wrong. This will be the law that is given in Mount Sinai and everything like that.。
I'm going to empower you again to rule over creation. You're going to be restored in these。
relationships, and you're going to show the world. That's righteousness, a communal ability.。
So righteousness has this idea of community and is other focused. Why is that important? Because。
the breakdown is in personal self-focus. The righteousness is in other focus. Now the second。
word that is equally important is, of course, the word that we translate as justice. In the Hebrew,。
it's "mishpah." And "mishpah" means both retributive, which I'll explain in a second,。
and restorative. Both of the elements of retributive justice and restorative justice。
are included in this phrase "mishpah." Now, retributive justice, we're aware of that.。
That's the issue. I steal something. I get caught. I've got to pay it back. Or I'm penalized in some。
way. I have to pay for the crime that I've committed. So mishpah has this element of。
retributive justice. But the bigger picture is restorative justice. And restorative justice,。
again, focus on the community and focus on not just individual people doing certain things,。
but how do we as a community now live where there are no poor amongst us, where there is no。
inequality, where people who are slaves are set free, where those that need freedom are given it?。
What does it look like to structure society together under God's definitions of right or wrong,。
not ours, where we shift from being self-focused to other-focused? And how do we now live like that?。
Justice has communal impact. Does that make sense? It changes the way in which not just we live,。
but how people live amongst us. Now, interestingly, there's a third word that is really also repeated。
this time. In English, we translate it to be the word "wicked." But in Hebrew, it's the word "rashab."。
You have to roll your "r" there. But "rashab" literally means the opposite of everything else。
that we just talked about. Rashab, the wicked, are the ones who stay in the Genesis 3 perspective.。
Personal advantage, self-preservation, doing what I want to do, even if it means hurting or exploiting。
or doing something. That doesn't matter. I'm looking after number one here, and it doesn't。
matter if it impacts everybody else. This, the Bible, from Genesis 4 onwards, when it uses the。
phrase in the Old Testament, "wicked," it's talking about these who don't have righteousness and don't。
have justice. They are wicked. If I was to explain it in a very clear way, listen to it this way.。
The wicked are those who are willing to basically disadvantage the community for their advantage.。
The righteous are the ones who are willing to disadvantage themselves for the advantage of。
the community. You follow that? So the wicked want to basically disadvantage the community so that。
they can succeed. The righteous are willing to lay down their lives. What does that remind you of?。
They're willing to sacrifice so that those around them might be able to gain. This is the tension。
that Scripture brings us to, and this is the beginning of the process of God saying, "I want。
justice to come into the world." So where before in Genesis 4, we begin to see what injustice looks。
like in this call of Israel and Abraham, we begin to see God's model for justice. Now, let me take。
this to the next step. Everybody still okay? Still tracking with me? Interesting enough. Are your。
hearts burning within you yet? Okay, I need to do more. Okay. The next thing that happens is we get。
a model of what this begins to look like. The Exodus is the next story in the Scriptures after。
we get to the end of Genesis, the next book, Exodus. And this is God modeling what all of this。
justice looks like. Because in Exodus, his people have now become oppressed,。
and they are now slaves. So his people are not living through both their own fault but not their。
fault. They're not now living in the way that God wants them to be. They're an oppressed people.。
They're slaves. And what we learn at the beginning of Exodus is that God has compassion. This moves。
the heart of God, Exodus chapter 2. God's heart is moved within him. He sees his people under。
oppression and slavery. He hears their cries, just like that song that we just sang, "I sought the。
Lord. He listened. He answered." He hears their cries, and he moves with compassion to do three。
things. These are the three things that God does in Exodus. Number one, he brings his presence。
again to his people. God is like, "You need to know that I am with you. You need to know that I am。
with you in your pain, with you in your oppression, with you in the reality of what it is that you're。
going through." The God that we serve is not a God who directs justice from a white fluffy cloud up。
on the sky. The God that we serve as Christians is a God who comes to be present in the injustices。
that he sees in his world. So he's present with us. Number two, he then is an advocate.。
God raises up Moses. He raises up Aaron. He raises up her, and he calls them to be advocates on。
behalf of justice in the world. They go to Pharaoh, don't they? And they say, "Let my people go.。
You're enslaving my people. This is not right." They stand in the corridors of power, and they fight。
on behalf of those that are oppressed. And the third thing God does in this model of what justice。
looks like is, of course, he then moves into action. He then actually begins to change things.。
He actually brings the plagues that cause Pharaoh to let his people go. He parts the sea so they can。
get through, and then he brings the waters back onto the Egyptian army. He provides for the manor。
in the wilderness. He provides for them a new promise land. So God acts in justice after having。
compassion, making himself present, being an advocate, and then acting on people's behalf.。
Is this all making sense? So this is a beautiful model that we see in Exodus, and this leads us to。
this beautiful idea of the prophets. So beyond the Exodus story become the prophets, and the prophets。
take this model of Exodus and begin to speak it over the years of Israel from that point forward.。
Often when we think of the prophets, we think the prophets are prophets of doom. We think the。
prophets are all like, "Oh my God, they're like the ones that you want to avoid at all costs."。
You know, like they're the ones where you can't even read those books without falling asleep.。
They're the ones where, you know, the prophets are all negative. It's all about sin. It's all about。
brokenness. It's all about how God is so angry at people. Don't think of the prophets that way.。
Think of the prophets instead in the lens of justice. The prophets are the advocating mouthpiece。
of God for the things that God defines as right and wrong. So the prophets come. They're not。
prophets of doom. They're prophets of hope. They show up to Israel and they say, "Look, you're。
living this way. You're acting this way. That's wrong, and it's wrong because God has already。
declared and established the right ways of thinking. His righteousness and his justice are here, but。
you're living like rashab, like wickedness, but you have a chance to change," the prophets say.。
"You've got a window to be new, a window to act and live and be differently." The prophets were always。
offering God's people the opportunity for them to return to the ways in which God has called them to。
be. The prophets were basically reminding the people about their humanity, about how they are。
the image of God in the world, and how they've gotten so far away from that because now they're。
in charge of right and wrong. They're the ones that are looking after themselves. They're the。
ones that are causing the expense and the pain and the exploitation of others, and the prophets say,。
"That's not the way you were created to be. There is another story." Prophets of hope, not prophets。
of doom. But as we continue our journey, can you still see it all? There's a problem, and here's the。
problem. Even after God sets his people free from their slavery in Egypt and established them in。
their own land, and says to them, "Now is the chance for you to live as you were always created to be,"。
something happens. Basically, the oppressed now become... What do they become? The oppressors.。
This should fascinate us because this is a picture of human behavior. There were actually more。
slaves in Israel in the time of David and Solomon than there were ever Jewish slaves in Egypt.。
So despite the fact that they had experienced a history, 400 years of their own brokenness。
and their own slavery, when they were finally set free, guess what they did? They enslaved others.。
The oppressed were set free, and they became the oppressor. I tell you what, this is played out。
on global politics around the world all the time. One party gets in, and suddenly it's like, "Let's。
give pain to that other party for however many years." Or suddenly a new tribe is established,。
and that tribe is like, "Now it's our turn to eat, and everybody else can suffer."。
It's funny how the oppressed, when they are given freedom, so often then become the oppressor.。
And what you see in the Old Testament is that there's a problem. And the problem is they begin。
to realize that there are some systemic issues in humanity and in the world that are not fixed by。
just trying to be nicer people. That there's something far deeper at work than just trying。
to be better, trying to be more just. No, there's something broken within us as human beings that。
no matter how hard we try to fix it, we cannot fix it. And because it's systemic, what you see。
in Scripture is a cycle of injustice. And by the time you get to the end of the Old Testament,。
here's what God's people are saying. They're saying, "We can't fix this thing.。
We've tried really hard to live like we're supposed to live. We tried really hard, but。
there's something so much within us that if I just get one ounce of freedom, I'm going to start。
looking after me, even if that means other people are going to suffer." You following this?。
So by the end of the Old Testament, here's what the people of God are saying. They're saying,。
"God has to do this. We can't fix this problem, but only God might." And they begin to wonder,。
"Is God going to act again in the future and make everything right?" I love this quote from。
Dietrich Bonhoeffer, a very famous quote, but I want to say it in the context of everything I've。
been mapping out for you. Dietrich Bonhoeffer says this, "We are not to simply bandage the。
wounds of victims beneath the wheels of injustice. We are to drive a spoke into the wheel itself."。
And by the time you get to the end of the Old Testament, that's essentially what the people。
of God are saying. They're like, "We're the wheel of injustice, so therefore we can't be the spoke.。
We're the wheel itself. We need God to be the spoke. We need the spoke to come, to break open,。
and to stop the outworking and the ongoing work of injustice in us." And God's people are crying。
to God for the spoke. And then there's some 400 years of silence. So those of you who are in。
waiting period right now know that sometimes the Lord moves and acts in the times of waiting.。
But then finally, oh, I can't even spell Jesus. Lord Jesus, forgive me. I do love you.。
God brings the spoke. Jesus comes. And the important thing about Jesus,。
how's this going? Can you see it? I'm getting bigger as I go. That's weird.。
There's this incarnation. So Jesus comes. And what is the incarnation?。
He is, this is very important, He is fully God. But what is He also? Fully human. Now, why does。
Jesus need to be fully God and fully human in this area of injustice? Think about it. The wheel。
is humanity. The spoke needs to be God. So Jesus is the only one who can actually step into the。
reality of this context and actually fix it. The Exodus was not. Even though the Exodus was God。
taking slaves into freedom, the Exodus didn't deal with the systemic issues. Jesus as the incarnation,。
fully God, fully human, is both the spoke and the wheel. And He can change it all. Now, notice how。
He changes it. It's very interesting. You follow the life of Jesus. Number one, the incarnation。
is this idea of His presence. Jesus with us in all of our brokenness. Number two, it's the idea of。
advocacy. This is what Jesus does, doesn't He? He stands on behalf of the vulnerable and marginalized.。
He heals the crippled hand, the man of the crippled hand. On the Sabbath, when everybody else was like,。
"You can't do that." Jesus is like, "You need to redefine what's right and wrong." He then takes。
that woman who's about to be stoned in slavery and He stands, a stone for her adultery, and He stands。
in the way. He fights on her behalf. There's many examples of Jesus doing advocacy. And then number。
three, He also does this. He also then moves into action. And He does that through so many healings,。
so many things that He does to set people free. But the biggest piece of action that He does is what?。
It's the cross. And the cross becomes the place where Jesus drives a spoke into the wheel.。
Now, the cross, it's really interesting. If I was to ask you here this morning, if I was to say,。
"How do we describe the gospel? How do we come to understand the gospel?" Here's what I think。
so often we would say. We would say, "Well, the gospel is this. I'm a sinner and I'm in need of a Savior.。
I'm broken within myself and my relationship with God is broken because of my sin. But Jesus came。
to this world to die on the cross to forgive me of my sin. And He was raised from death to life,。
showing that sin has been defeated. So if I put my trust now in Jesus, I know that my grace has。
changed, that I am removed, and that my sin is dealt with, and that I now have eternal life with Him."。
So when we think about the gospel, we primarily talk about it in terms of the reconciliation。
of the first of those four relational contexts, us and God. And here's the problem. So many churches。
only define the gospel in that way. But I want you to think about this. If the gospel is only defined。
by us and God, but at the beginning of all things, it wasn't just us and God that got broken by sin,。
but also us and ourselves, us and others, and us and creation. But our gospel is only big enough。
to handle the reconciliation between us and God. I want to put it to you that that's not a gospel。
that's big enough. If your gospel only ever reconciles one of the elements of the four。
broken contexts, then it is not a gospel that brings shalom. And if it's not a gospel that。
restores shalom, it is not a gospel that you should believe in. It is not a gospel that is just.。
The whole gospel is that what Jesus does on His cross doesn't just reconcile us to Him,。
but it reconciles all of those broken contexts. So let's go back to this moment。
of the cross. Let me show this to you. So we have things like 2 Corinthians 5.18. You can look at。
these later, but maybe just make a note of them for now. 2 Corinthians 5.18 says what Jesus has。
done on the cross is He's reconciled us back into relationship with God, solving that first broken。
context. Then you can read later in Galatians 4 verse 7, it says, "We were once slaves, but now we。
are children of God." In other words, restoring because of the cross, the brokenness within。
ourselves, the way that we see ourselves as slaves and not as His children. And then in Colossians。
3 verse 15, it says, "Now we are one body together, and there is peace amongst us," it says.。
In other words, there's a reconciliation because of the cross that happens in our relationships。
together. And then finally, if you look at Romans 8 and you look at verses 19 to 22, it says, "All。
of creation was groaning for a long time, but now even creation has got its reconciliation with God。
because of the work of Jesus on the cross." So here's what I want you to do. I want you to take。
a photo of that. Can you take a photo of that? Does that? Yes. Now I know you're gonna have to。
zoom in because I got bigger and bigger and bigger as I went. I don't know why. But if you take a。
photo of that, I'll kind of get out of your way. That is the whole gospel. Does that make sense?。
And I want you to show, now that you're taking a photo of it, now I can mess it up. But watch this.。
So 2 Corinthians 5 verse 18, that restores what was broken between us and God. Galatians 4 verse 7。
talks about the cross restoring our relationship with ourselves. Colossians 3 verse 15 about。
restoring what was broken with us. Romans 8, 19, 22, restoring what is broken in creation. That is。
the gospel to believe in. And if we believe in that gospel, that means that we are a people of justice.。
Because if those four broken relational contexts is what has moved us into justice, the restoration。
of those things is what restores the world back to the way that it was supposed to be. The reason。
why Christians should be justice-centered and have a passion for justice is not to be driven。
because it's some good moral behavior. We are to be driven because it's the gospel.。
Because it's the way in which Jesus has gone to the cross to pay the price, not just so that my。
relationship with him is restored, so that everything that was broken is restored. And if。
I'm on behalf of that, then I need to be just. It impacts the way I think about my relationship with。
him, how I think about myself, how I think about others, and whether I recycle or whether I care。
for creation or I look after the environment. All of these things matter because our original call。
as humans is to steward creation and to bring it into a place of shalom. So let me close by saying。
it like this. The reason why we call ourselves here at the Vine to justice is not because we're。
wanting you to be better acting people. It's because we want you to be actually human. We。
want you to be the way that you were originally created to be. And Jesus has made the way. He has。
driven the spoke into the wheel, and our great joy and privilege is to now live on that story.。
That's why we're passionate about justice here. It flows from the Scriptures in such a profound。
way. And that is why we're going to call you over these three weeks into a relationship with Jesus。
that begins to outwork that passion. What he has done on the cross, fully seen in our church,。
in our relationships, in our businesses, in our city, in society, in all of the world.。
We want to live on behalf of that. Amen. Was that helpful? That's a theology of justice.。
I know it's a lot. I know it's been long, but hopefully your heart might be somewhat burning。
within you to want to live on that and behalf of that in all the things that you do. Could you。
stand with me? And I'd love to pray with you. Father, we are so grateful for today. So grateful。
for this moment together. And so grateful for the work of justice that your son Jesus did.。
Father, we want to pray that as you meet with us now, that for each person in this room,。
we're just grateful that you're making them more just. That they as a Christian are called to。
be biased towards the poor, the vulnerable, the marginalized, those enslaved, those exploited.。
And Lord, forgive us where we all can recognize the tendency in our own lives towards personal。
advantage and self-preservation at the expense of the other. Maybe just take a moment just to。
be honest with the Lord. Every single one of us, that's almost the default as humans,。
as we wrestle with sin, is our own personal advantage, self-preservation at the expense。
of the other. And maybe you can just bring that to the Lord and say, "Lord, would you just forgive me?。
Lord, I don't want to live like that. I'm someone who carries the name of Christ.。
You've saved me for a different way of living." Our starting point, Lord, is just to come before。
you and ask for your forgiveness. Lord, I believe that you're going to be lighting fires in this。
series and people in this room, those online, those in our overflow. Lord, it begins from just。
that place of humility to say, "Thank you, Jesus. Thank you, Jesus, for saving us from ourselves.。
Thank you, Jesus, for saving me from wanting to redefine what is right and wrong so that I get an。
advantage or my people get an advantage at the expense of others." That's where racism comes from.。
Lord, we call out the injustices we see in our world, and we call out the injustices we see in。
ourselves, and we ask ourselves, we ask you, Lord, that your gospel would be glorified,。
that the whole gospel would be seen, a reconciliation, us with you, us with ourselves,。
us with others, and us with creation. Lord, I pray that you would release people in this room。
into a journey that is ahead of them of becoming more like you,。
and in becoming more like you, becoming more just.。
Lord, may we hold the whole gospel in our hearts, and we come against every pretense to a different。
version of the gospel, and we thank you that you have in your scriptures shown us a new way,。
the glorious way, the right way. Would righteousness and justice flow like a river。
here at the vine and in our city, and we pray this in Jesus' name. Everyone says, "Amen."。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
