Thank you, Tim. Thank you very much. I bet you love having your senior pastor back.。
Yeah, absolutely.。
Oh, and thank you for having me here today. It's such a great honor to be here.。
It's my first time being with you on a Sunday.。
So by way of introduction, let me just share a little bit about myself.。
I was born and brought up in Hong Kong, so I speak fluent Cantonese.。
[speaks Cantonese]。
So I went through primary school, and then for high school I went to the UK.。
I stayed there, stayed for university, and then started working there.。
And then I was having the best life. I had a great community.。
I'd had great jobs. I had this great apartment. It really was the party flat.。
It was amazing. I was living my best life, dating this good-looking boy.。
And then out of nowhere, seemingly eight years ago, I felt God call me back to Hong Kong.。
It was not an audible voice. I've never heard the audible voice of God, but it was clear as day.。
And the words were, "I'm calling you back to Hong Kong. Lay down London life."。
I wish I told you I joyfully obeyed immediately, but the truth is this shook me to my core.。
I wrestled with it for three months, not even telling any of my close friends.。
And when I did tell my closest friends, they said, "Yeah, we've known.。
We were just waiting for you to hear it from God directly."。
You see, my parents, my mum's Hong Kong Chinese, my father's British,。
they were still living in Hong Kong, and they still are currently.。
So I was returning to the place where I was born, where I have roots.。
But I'd been away my whole adult life. But the point is, it did not fit my plans.。
It was not what I wanted to do. I wanted to live in the UK, live there happily ever after.。
And so when God asked me this, I was confused. I was angry.。
I tried to disobey God, but really the only thing that kept me pushing through。
was that I'd made a commitment to God years ago.。
And I said, "God, I want my life to make a difference to you.。
I want to commit to whatever it is you call me to, I will follow."。
And so this core was challenging that very much.。
I was so confused. I mean, "God, why? Why would you make me do this?。
Why would you ask me to lay down the best life that I'm living?。
And what for? What am I going to do? What work?。
I have no job and you won't even tell me what you're bringing me to Hong Kong for?。
How dare you be so cruel? How can I trust you, God?"。
I wonder if you could relate to that.。
Have you ever been faced with a situation where you had to choose between trusting God,。
his way, his call, and going your own way?。
What you had planned, maybe your five-year plan.。
Or maybe you're feeling some pressure at work, at home, or in your relationships.。
Maybe even with your friends, or maybe with peers, you know something isn't quite right,。
but you just don't know how to respond.。
We are on week three of a sermon series titled "Unshaken,"。
which focuses on how Christians can engage with a rapidly changing culture,。
and often a culture that is at odds with our Christian faith.。
We're drawing lessons from the book of Daniel and seeking to address these questions。
and how we can respond to our surrounding culture.。
Week one, Pastor Andrew came and challenged us on how establishing our core godly value。
will equip us to face the challenging situations around us,。
and face those ungodly pressures,。
and how we can respectfully engage with the world without losing our conviction.。
Last week, Pastor Chapman focused on the importance of our dependence on God,。
primarily through prayer, not relying on our own competence to navigate through life,。
especially our professional life.。
Today, we'll continue on this series.。
We'll look at Daniel 3, Daniel chapter 3, and continue to explore。
what does an unshaken faith look like in the face of fear?。
So let's dive in. You know this.。
The book of Daniel is set in a time where Judah, which is one of the tribes of Israel,。
was in exile in Babylon.。
It was a foreign land, a place where people don't worship God.。
And King Nebuchadnezzar was the king who was reigning at the time,。
and he was very much a symbol of God's enemy.。
In Daniel chapter 3, we find this story, this short story,。
about three young men named Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.。
They are court officials.。
These are the three men that were introduced to you on week one,。
when they had their names changed.。
They were Daniel's friend, and they had their names changed.。
And King Nebuchadnezzar, at the time, he made this massive, giant gold statue,。
this icon, this image, a bit like, much like actually the Buddha on Lantau,。
massive statue of himself,。
and commanded everyone in his empire to bow down and worship it.。
And so when the time came when people had to come and worship,。
everyone else in the empire gladly bowed and worshipped this icon.。
But Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego did not,。
because they knew that God had called them to be faithful to Yahweh,。
to the one and only God, to plead total allegiance to him alone.。
So they said to the king that they will not,。
they will not bow down to this icon.。
And what did the king do? The king was so angry.。
They said, "If you don't immediately bow down and worship this icon,。
he will throw them all into the fiery furnace, into this massive oven."。
What a scary situation to be in.。
Talk about being threatened to do something that God says you must not do,。
to worship another name, to compromise their faith.。
But for them, if they don't do this, they will die.。
What would you do if you were them?。
I think if I was them, I'd try and run away and hide.。
I'll try and find a way out.。
How could I stand up to this cultural pressure to conform,。
peer pressure to idolize this statue, to compromise the faith,。
the fear of punishment was real.。
Let's dive into scripture and let's look at Daniel chapter 3, verses 16 to 18.。
How did they respond when they said they would be thrown into the furnace?。
"Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego replied to him,。
'King Nebuchadnezzar, we do not need to defend ourselves before you in this matter.。
If we are thrown into the blazing furnace, the God we serve is able to deliver us from it,。
and he will deliver us from your majesty's hand.。
But even if he does not, we want you to know, your majesty,。
that we will not serve your gods or worship the image of gold you have set up.'。
The three young men stood firm, boldly telling the king that their god would save them.。
But even if God didn't, they would still never worship the golden statue.。
They would not bow to the king's threat, even if the threat is death.。
They say, 'Even if you try to kill us, we know that God has the power to save us.。
But even if he decides in his own will not to do so, even then, I will not bow down to your idol.。
I will stay true to God to the very end and not compromise.'"。
What a phenomenal display of strength and power.。
And the story in Daniel 3, it really is a story about power play.。
Power play between an evil king, which is human power,。
God's power, and the power that the believers who had when they relied on God's power.。
So let's dive into each of that.。
Let's start with King Nebuchadnezzar.。
Like I said, King Nebuchadnezzar, he was super powerful.。
He had built this empire that was massive, so he had human authority, human power.。
And because of that, he built a massive statue。
that was meant to be more impressive than any other statue people had ever seen.。
It stood higher than most others.。
Now, whether the statue is a statue of himself,。
or he'd actually elevated him to sort of godlike status, we're not told.。
But the point is that he demanded people to worship him.。
And the size of the statue really reflects the magnitude of his pride.。
The fact that he demanded all his people in his empire to worship this statue。
also symbolizes how he desires to assert his power, his control over people.。
He wanted people to be unified under him and under his authority.。
In essence, the king is saying, "Worship me and you'll live.。
You do not worship me, you will die.。
Surrender to me and you'll prosper.。
Don't surrender to me, you have no part to play in my kingdom."。
It's a blatant threat, and also a classic example of a dominating power,。
exerting his control, his domination over people who are weaker around him,。
people who don't have as much power around him,。
maybe people who are a minority group around him.。
You see, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, I would say, knew this.。
They saw this.。
They saw this was the power dynamic, the power struggle that was going on.。
What's even more exciting is that they knew God's power。
and how that compares to the king's.。
Verse 17, it says, "If we are thrown into the blazing furnace,。
the God we serve is able to deliver us from it, from the furnace,。
and he will deliver us from your hand."。
They're declaring God is able, he is capable, he has the capacity,。
and he has the capability of exerting his power to do what?。
To deliver us from this blazing furnace, from your bondage,。
king Nebuchadnezzar, from your control, from your domineering power,。
into God's freedom, into God's goodness.。
What they are really saying is that they are saying,。
"Yes, king, we see your power, but you know what?。
Our God, he has even more power."。
They didn't say this, but this is how I'd imagine they'd be thinking.。
Our God has unlimited power and authority.。
He has the power to do anything, even the power over the Babylonian empire.。
We sang about it just now.。
They're saying, "Our God created the universe out of nothing.。
He made the skies, he made the sea, he made night and day.。
He created each of us."。
So he has power over creation, and not only that,。
he's the ruler and sustainer over the whole creation, over each of our lives.。
God is the God that performs miracles.。
He calls food to rain down from heaven when his people were in exile,。
in the wilderness, when they had nothing to eat.。
And our God is so faithful and powerful, we sang it,。
that when the Israelites were being chased by their enemy through Moses,。
God parted the Red Sea so that his people could cross through on dry land。
and escape their control.。
Our God has way more power and authority than you, King Nebuchadnezzar.。
Your power, King Nebuchadnezzar, pales into nothing.。
So verse 17 really is a statement of God's power.。
What they are really saying is, "Our God, his power is limitless.。
Yours, your majesty, it's limited.。
Our God's power is divine and supernatural.。
It's almighty.。
It's the supreme power.。
Yours, King Nebuchadnezzar, is merely human.。
God's power lasts forever.。
The king's is only temporary.。
Even whatever power you have and authority you have, King Nebuchadnezzar,。
even that is given by God.。
And later in Daniel, we know that even the king's power and authority was taken away.。
So they knew the king's power, even when it's that massive, is no comparison to God's.。
They didn't bow to it.。
How phenomenal.。
This is where the three men drew their security and hope.。
They were absolutely certain that God has the power to save them from the furnace.。
Not only do they know that God has the capability of doing that,。
but they also understood something very important.。
They understood God's will, and God could choose to not exercise his power。
and save them at this point in time.。
So in verse 17, when it says, "But even if he does not,"。
we want you to know, your majesty, that we will not serve you.。
Even if he does not.。
Yes, God is all-powerful.。
They're not now doubting themselves.。
They're not now backtracking on their word.。
But actually, what they are saying is that they are choosing to trust God,。
even if things don't work out the way we do.。
They are choosing to believe, yes, they know that God is powerful,。
but they also understand God's character.。
They know that God is the faithful God.。
He's the God of goodness.。
His character is that he loves us.。
He will never leave us nor forsake us.。
And they were holding onto that.。
And you see, this type of fear freed them from the fear of man.。
And what this did was that they demonstrated a different power。
that is based on God's power and character,。
not based on whether he will act how I want him to act right now.。
They showed tremendous courage.。
But you see, courage isn't necessarily the absence of fear.。
But courage really is the willingness to act in obedience to God's calling and purposes,。
relying on his strength and the strength that comes from God's power.。
We stand on God's faithfulness.。
We stand on his character.。
We stand on what he has done before.。
And so they stood firm.。
They stood firm against an ungodly king.。
Did the king like their response?。
What do you think?。
No, it triggered him even more.。
Let's read on to see what happens next.。
So reminder, where are we at right now?。
These three men, they've stood up to the king.。
They've said, "No, we're not going to bow to your idol, even if we do get thrown into the furnace."。
Verses 19 to 20.。
"Then Nebuchadnezzar was furious with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego,。
and his attitude towards them changed.。
He ordered the furnace heated seven times hotter than usual。
and commanded some of the strongest soldiers in his army to tie up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego。
and throw them into the blazing furnace."。
You know what? The soldiers, they obeyed this ridiculous command.。
And as the men, the three men were thrown in the furnace,。
actually, these soldiers were killed by the fire because it was so hot.。
So the men were thrown in.。
It seemed like God didn't come through.。
God didn't rescue them.。
No heavenly help came.。
God chose not to exercise his power.。
It was costly, but they were met with their death.。
"Then King Nebuchadnezzar leapt to his feet in amazement and asked his advisors,。
'Weren't there three men that were tied up and threw into the fire?'。
They replied, 'Certainly, your majesty.'。
He said, 'Look, I see four men walking around in the fire, unbound and unharmed,。
and the fourth looks like a son of God, looks like an angel.'。
They saw that the fire had not harmed their bodies, nor was the hair of their heads singed,。
their robes were not scorched, and there was no smell of fire on them.。
They came out of the fire completely unharmed."。
A true miracle, a true sign that God sent his supernatural power。
and rescued them, protected them from the fire.。
They were saved.。
Such a spectacular display of God's almighty power。
that even the king then recognized Yahweh and who God is.。
And he said this, "Then Nebuchadnezzar said, 'Praise be to the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego,。
who has sent his angel and rescued his servants.'。
They trusted in him and defied the king's command。
and were willing to give up their lives rather than serve or worship any god except their own God.。
The men, the three men, their faith made such an impact.。
It did save them.。
It made such an impact that even this evil king put his faith。
or declared that this God is the true God.。
What a faith booster.。
I'd imagine they would be praising God, thanking God wholeheartedly。
for how he has answered their prayer.。
And he did.。
But I think the challenge here to us, and I feel perhaps what God might be saying to us,。
is actually how often do we go to God with our demands, expecting him to fulfill our wish list?。
I did that.。
I was offended when God didn't allow my life to carry on as I wanted to.。
We can often say, 'God, if you are a good God, do this or do this.。
If you're a good God, prove to me this, answer this prayer.'。
We tell him what he must do for us.。
And then we become frustrated or we become furious like the king if he doesn't.。
But you see, this is conditional faith,。
that I promise you will disappoint you and will land you in more fear.。
If we are honest with ourselves, how often does our relationship depend on what God does for us?。
If things are going well, if things are going according to what I want in my favor。
and God answers my prayers, I am in love with God.。
I'm praising God.。
I'm here with my arms high in the air praising him.。
But when he doesn't, our relationship suffers.。
We don't trust him.。
We think he is a bad God.。
You see, in Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego's story with the story,。
God did exercise his power.。
God did meet and rescue them, save them from death.。
But God did not intervene before they were thrown in the furnace.。
They were delivered when they were experiencing the furnace.。
It was in the suffering, in that heat, that they were met with God's presence.。
You see, we don't know God's timing and how he will save us.。
But we know how the story ends.。
We know God has promised to save us.。
And we are called to put our total trust in God's ultimate plan.。
You see, what we can learn from the men is that they chose obedience and trust first.。
And then God met them with his saving presence.。
They didn't just worship God because they thought, "Oh, if I stand true to God,。
he will bless me."。
It looked like it was the end of the story for them.。
And that's the kind of faith we are called to, this faith that is powerful.。
The power in the world that we are called to have is a power that is submitted to God,。
submitted to Jesus, not to use our own power to serve ourselves,。
to dominate over people, to control people.。
You see, this story is referenced, mentioned in Hebrews, in how we can put faith into action.。
It's the chapter that starts with this.。
"Now faith is confidence in what we hoped for, an assurance about what we do not see."。
And then it says this, "By faith, the men quenched the fury of the flames."。
When we put our faith in God, he will give us the strength, the power,。
to confront any flames we're facing in today's culture.。
You see, the dangerous thing is if we don't trust God, when he doesn't do what we want him to do,。
is that we actually run the risk of becoming like King Nebuchadnezzar.。
We could make our faith a self-centered faith.。
We can make everyone else around us serve us, even God.。
And when we don't have that, we become furious with rage.。
If we make ourselves the center of faith, our relationship with Jesus,。
then that really is pride and not trust.。
We'll desire to control everything around us.。
We will be fueled by fear.。
Maybe fear of things not working out, because I fear this, I need to control everything.。
But either way, that's not the journey of faith that God has called us to.。
He's called us to a journey where our faith can quench the fire.。
And in the story we've read today, we've read a story where three men,。
three young men believed they put their life on the line and God did rescue them.。
But we know that sometimes it's not the experience of the faithful.。
Sometimes those who are faithful still are met with disappointment。
or feel that God hasn't come through for you, still met with pain.。
And I want to be sensitive to those who are maybe experiencing that pain or suffering。
or feeling like God has forgotten you or let you down.。
Because we know the reality is not all who are faithful are rescued.。
This is the biggest question we have on Alpha.。
I am part of running Alpha at the Vine One Chai.。
And the biggest question is, if God is a good God, why would he allow suffering?。
Why did God allow my mom to pass away when I was only five?。
Or seeing a young mom grieving the death of her two-month-old baby.。
Why did my business fail? Why did that relationship break up?。
I want you to know that God sees that and those feelings are valid.。
And I can really relate to that.。
Moving back to Hong Kong was the biggest unknown in my life.。
And whilst I wasn't full of hope, I did choose to follow God.。
And I can tell you it was the best decision I made.。
I would have never imagined being a pastor, being here preaching to you,。
but there's nothing more I'd love to be doing right now.。
But still, there's one area of challenge that has been a challenge these years.。
And the truth was that after I moved back, I was single.。
And I was single for six years.。
And I was increasingly feeling discouraged and hopeless.。
Especially since being a woman, I felt that the time to start my own family was running out.。
The temptation, seriously, of finding someone outside of the church,。
because it seems like that's where the guys are, was real.。
It's the biggest "amen" we're getting. Yes!。
Oh, yes.。
So the temptation was real. I wrestled with it.。
Can I be with someone who doesn't know God?。
But knowing it could mean compromising God's standards for marriage.。
I chose to trust God and that he would bring me the right man in his timing.。
And so almost three years ago, I met Ken in London,。
who sadly is not able to be here with us today.。
He's still in London dealing with some matters.。
We met three years ago in London, my first trip going back to London after COVID.。
And we got married earlier this year.。
I am so grateful to God for a kind-hearted, God-fearing man.。
I still have been on a journey of trusting God, because truth be told, from a young age,。
I dreamt of being a mum. But marrying later, in my 40s,。
I know I look young. I do wonder, God, will I have my own children?。
Increasingly, it's looking like maybe I won't.。
I've wrestled with the question with God, why can't we have met sooner?。
You know, maybe if COVID didn't happen, I would have gone back to London sooner.。
We would have met five years earlier. All these questions, all these wrestles.。
But still, I have come to the place where I choose to trust God,。
because he is good, because he is faithful.。
It's not an easy journey, but submitting to God really does bring a sense of security。
and hope and a tremendous sense of freedom.。
I don't need to know what's going to happen next,。
but I trust that whatever happens, God is faithful.。
His plans are greater than my plans, and I can have the strength and the power to remain unshaken,。
whatever my circumstances, whatever my situation would be.。
I've really drawn strength from Paul in Philippians, where it says this,。
"I have learned to be content whatever the circumstances.。
I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to have plenty.。
I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation,。
whether well-fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want.。
I can do all this through him who gives me strength."。
Paul learned to be content regardless of his external circumstances,。
whether he had a lot or he had very little.。
And where does the source of his strength come from?。
His strength and ability to be content in all situations is his relationship with Christ, not his power.。
The secret to being content is to choose faith over fear, is to believe that God has limited power.。
We don't rely on our own limits.。
To trust that God's faith brings a godly and steadfast confidence, and not choose anxiety and fear.。
To know that actually trusting in God releases hope and trust,。
whereas if we rely on ourself, fear can bring despair and hopelessness.。
Faith empowers us, whereas fear paralyzes us.。
Faith gives us courage, whereas fear makes us timid.。
And the invitation I feel from God today is that he really is inviting each of us。
to take that next step of faith in him, whatever our circumstances, whatever fiery furnace you're facing.。
God is the good God. He has been faithful through the ages.。
He wants to bring us that freedom that frees you from fear, from anxiety, from hopelessness.。
That's the invitation for us today.。
So may I pray for us.。
Could I invite us all to stand?。
God, I thank you that you have already been speaking from the beginning of our time together.。
We need you, God. How we need you.。
God, I pray for anyone here that is facing a fiery furnace.。
Lord, meet them. Meet them where they are at.。
Remind them of times past, how you have been faithful to them.。
I pray you'll bring a community around them to walk with them.。
For some people, maybe today you're thinking,。
"I really want to trust God. I really want to believe that he is here for me, but I'm struggling."。
Do you know, in the Bible, there was a father who was desperate for his son's healing,。
and he said this to Jesus, "I believe. Help my unbelief."。
So Lord, help us. Help us.。
God will never not come to you if you call on him.。
So call on him now.。
[music]。
God, I pray for anyone if in their work maybe they're thinking,。
"Oh, maybe I should just compromise. Maybe then I'll get that promotion."。
Lord, give them the resolve to stay true to what you have called them to,。
to the person you have made them to be.。
And if that is you, I just feel that God is speaking identity to you, integrity.。
God has made you a person of integrity.。
That courage that Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego displayed,。
I pray for all of us here to receive that afresh.。
And for someone else, maybe you're not in the fiery furnace,。
but earlier in our prayer meeting we had a picture,。
and the picture was someone shaking hands with God。
as a sign of making a fresh commitment to God.。
And you see that when we're faced in a furnace,。
that's not the time to just think, "Oh, shall I commit to God or not?"。
Actually, like the three men, their commitment was made way ahead.。
So perhaps just picture Jesus' handshake hand is stretched out in front of you.。
Will you shake his hand and make a fresh commitment to trust him,。
to put your faith in him?。
Shake his hand, even if you have to say, "I'll shake it, God, but help my unbelief."。
But I choose to shake your hand. I choose to put my faith in you.。
I choose that your plans are better than my plans.。
And lastly, I just want to pray for anyone who is gripped by fear.。
Lord, release your faith. Release your people from the bondage of fear.。
Release them from maybe a lifelong pattern of just looking inwards, trusting themselves.。
And I pray instead their gaze will be turned outwards into you,。
and in doing so, may fear be broken in Jesus' name.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
