Hey church, I want to say thank you so much for reaching out all the messages。
that you sent to Ivan and me about the church plant. We're so excited about this。
and I'm looking forward to seeing a lot of you on Wednesday evening. But to start。
things off with the message I want to share with you about a YouTube video。
that I watched about a volcanic eruption in 2021 in La Palma which is an island。
in Spain. Now the volcano there was a lot of lava flowing that ruined homes and。
businesses and caused a lot of loss to the community. But the thing that really。
struck me about the video was the interviews and how differently people。
responded to the tragedy. One person that was being interviewed you could just see。
that they were despondent and they were just stuck. They didn't know how to move。
forward. And as I was watching that I couldn't help but to feel compassion for。
this person. I mean they were going through a lot. But then there was。
another person that also had lost so much. They lost their business facilities,。
they lost their home and they even lost some of their livestock. But this person。
responded quite differently with a lot of resilience. And they focused on what。
they were able to do which honestly was not that much. But he started setting up。
their business again and they vowed I will build back my house. And it was so。
moving and inspiring. Now watching this video made me wonder what allowed this。
one person to respond to this tragedy and these difficulties with such courage。
and resilience while other people were paralyzed and just stuck with what。
had happened. What allowed this one person to be so resilient in the face。
of these huge challenges? Now I'm sure there's a lot of answers to that。
question when you look through the history of the person's life. But it also。
made me think about our Christian faith. What allows individuals but also church。
to have a strong faith that they can face challenges? And to be more specific。
how can we as Christians in Hong Kong build a strong and a robust faith now。
that allows us to walk confidently and courageously into the future? So today。
we're continuing in our message series "The Unfinished Story" and we're gonna。
see a way that the early church inspires us to be the church in Hong Kong today.。
But before we get into the details of that I'm going to share with you a。
little bit about the context. Now the book of Acts is about the beginning of。
the church and the spread of the early Jesus movement. The Holy Jesus promised。
that the Holy Spirit would come upon the believers and when the Holy Spirit。
came on the day of Pentecost they were filled with the Spirit and one of them。
Peter he stood up and he gave an incredible sermon and he talked about。
the significance of who Jesus was, his death, his resurrection and that he was。
the Messiah, the one that Israel actually had been waiting for to deliver them, not。
just of Israel but of the world. And he called people to respond in repentance。
and faith and people were cut to the heart and he responded in faith. On that。
day 3,000 people, can you imagine that? 3,000 people came to faith and they。
joined the early Christian community. Now the part where we pick up the story is。
is this newly formed community and how they did life together and the practices。
that were important to them. So let's look at that. We're in Acts chapter 2。
and we're starting in verse 42 it says, "They devoted themselves to the apostles。
teaching and to fellowship and to the breaking of bread and to prayer. Everyone。
was filled with awe at the many wonders and signs performed by the apostles. All。
the believers were together and had everything in common. They sold property。
and possessions to give to anyone who had need. Every day they continued to。
meet together in the temple courts. They broke bread in their homes and together。
with glad and sincere hearts they praised God and enjoyed the favor of all people.。
And the Lord added to their number daily those who were being saved." So here we。
have a summary of this life together of this early church and I believe it's。
these practices that helped the church build that solid faith to be in tune。
with the Spirit and to be such a vibrant, spirit-filled, mission-oriented church。
that could thrive despite challenges and persecution. So we're told that they。
devoted themselves to four things. The apostles teaching and to。
fellowship, the breaking of bread and to prayer. But before we get into those four。
practices I actually want to just take a moment and look at the word devoted。
because they devoted themselves to those four practices. Now the Greek word is。
"proskontaruntis" and besides meaning devoted it also means to persist in。
something, to hold fast to, to continue in and to persevere in something. So the。
early Christian community they persevered, they persisted in。
these practices and I believe it's these very practices that open up their lives。
to God and for the Holy Spirit to just lead them and guide them as they were。
this new movement and as this church that was birthed. Now what's so。
significant about these practices and how do they help us and even。
speak to us today about building a strong faith? Well let's look at that.。
Now the first thing that we're told that they devote themselves to is the。
apostles teaching. Now what in the world is that? Well the apostles were the。
twelve disciples of Jesus, that inner circle that was with Jesus, that。
ministered with him for three years, that heard Jesus' teaching and even。
they were taught by Jesus. But not only that, they also saw, they were。
eyewitnesses to what Jesus had done to his death, to his resurrection. So they。
taught the early church what they learned about Jesus.。
They gave testimony. But that's not the only thing they did. They also。
interpreted Israel's scriptures to the early church. Now what's Israel's。
scriptures? Well that's what we call the Old Testament. But they interpreted it in。
light of Jesus because Jesus himself had said that all scriptures are fulfilled。
in him. And so they showed that Jesus was the Messiah, the one that。
Israel had been waiting for, that the whole world had been waiting for, and that。
he is the Redeemer. And so you can even see that when you look at Acts chapter 2,。
the story just before this part that we're talking about, where Peter, he。
drew on a lot of Old Testament, but he interpreted through the lens of Jesus'。
coming and what Jesus did. So for us, what is the apostles teaching today? Well。
it's really the letters in the books of the New Testament, but it's also the。
larger story which includes the Old Testament. It's just that we read it。
through the lens of Jesus. So what did it mean for the early church to be。
devoted to the apostles' teaching? Well it meant that God's Word, Jesus' teaching,。
they played a central role in the community's life. They were committed to。
learning about Jesus, but not only to learning information, but to actually。
living it out. So being devoted to the apostles' teaching was not just about。
learning about Jesus, as important as it is, but it also was about having a。
personal encounter with Jesus. So when they gathered and they heard the。
teaching, Jesus made himself known to them. They met him personally, they。
communed with him, they spent time in his presence, and they heard him speak through。
these words and the Holy Spirit. Now what might being devoted to the apostles'。
teaching or to God's Word, what might that mean for us today? Well first it。
also means keeping God's Word central in our lives. It means prioritizing,。
spending time in God's Word, and then we can do that in a variety of ways. One of。
them we're doing right now is through listening to sermons and。
teaching, but we can also do it through Bible studies, like the one today at 2pm。
that you can join on Zoom. You can also by reading with friends and。
family or by yourself, or even if that's more helpful for you, listening to an。
app. Actually the early church, they didn't own Bibles, they。
heard it, it was passed on mostly through the Word, so they were actually listening。
to the messages. So when you listen on the app, you're actually doing what the。
early church did. But the second way that we can be devoted to。
the apostles' teaching today has to do with how we approach God's Word. Now a lot。
of times we approach God's Word informationally. We focus on the。
information in the stories, maybe the characters, you know, there's God and。
there's this person and this other person, or the narrative structure, and we。
gather all this information. And that's important. We actually want to。
absorb all those things. But reading the Bible informationally and learning the。
facts, it's not enough. We also need to learn to read the Bible relationally. The。
Bible is not an end in itself. You know, our focus is to encounter God, and God。
makes himself known to us through his Word, personally. And so when we come to。
God's Word and we read the Bible, we need to read it relationally because we want。
to engage in that relationship with God. We want to hear him speak. Now when I was。
a community groups pastor, a lot of times I told community group leaders as they。
transitioned into the time in God's Word that sometimes it was helpful to remind。
a group of saying something like, "Hey, right now we're gonna transition into。
time of God's Word." And I believe that God wants to speak to us. You know, he has。
something to say to us, so let's prepare our hearts. Let's be expectant. You know,。
there is something about this posture when we come, that when we expect。
that Jesus will speak. Now in my observation as a pastor, people usually。
don't struggle with the informational approach. That's actually what comes。
natural and easy, and there's a logical reason for that. That's how we're trained。
to read. When you study in school, you're trained to read information. You need to。
get all the information so you can answer the questions on the test. Or even。
in business, when you read the business report and the data and the stats, you。
read for information to fish it out. So that's quite natural that we approach。
God's way. But one thing that I found practical and very helpful and that。
helps us have this relational approach to God's Word is to read the Bible。
prayerfully. And when I do that, I usually pay attention to the highs and the lows,。
and I journal on them. Well, what are the highs and lows? What am I talking about?。
Well, the highs are the words and verses that stick out to me. They just kind of。
pop out when I'm reading, prayerfully reading the Bible, and they resonate。
deeply in my heart. And so one example, even as I was preparing the sermon, was。
this word "devoted," as I was preparing this message, it just popped out to。
me. And so then I prayed over it and seeking to understand what is God。
saying. And what I got is that God is calling us to persist in these。
practices to make them, you know, get back to the basics, to make them central。
again. But what are the lows? What is that about? Well, the lows are words and。
verses that challenge us or unsettle us. And so as I was reading also this。
passage, the thing that was a little bit unsettling to me and that challenged me,。
and I believe also us here as well, was verse 44 and 45, where it says, "All the。
believers were together and they had everything in common. They sold property。
and possessions to give to anyone who had need." So a low, it might challenge us。
where maybe our lives is not aligned with God's will or purpose, where we're。
living a little bit differently than God is actually calling us to. But it could。
also be something where God just wants us to know Him more fully. Maybe we don't。
know that God is this generous, incredible God. And so that sticks。
out to us. So lows does not mean bad. It just means that the Holy Spirit is。
highlighting something to us that we need to hear. So as these highs and lows。
pop up, as you're reading the Bible prayerfully, allow yourself to pause. You。
don't need to rush on and talk to God or journal and ask Him, "Lord, what are you,。
why are you highlighting this to me?" And God will speak to us and He gives us。
words, you know, to His church but also individually and in season. And again,。
it's this personal encounter when we make God's Word central in our lives. So。
when we read the Bible prayerfully, it is a lot of times at the highs and lows。
that the Holy Spirit is speaking to us. So one way that we can build and。
strengthen our faith is when we make God's Word central in our lives and we。
open ourselves up for this relationship and for God to speak to us. Now another。
practice that the early church devoted themselves to was the breaking of bread.。
Now what is that referring to? Well, it's referring to this meal that Jesus。
told His disciples He wanted them to observe. And basically in this meal,。
Jesus was explaining the significance of His life, His death, and His resurrection.。
In particular, the significance of what Jesus did on the cross. And we call it。
communion, we call it the Lord's Supper, depending on what tradition you're。
from. And so in verse 46 and in our passage, we're told that they broke bread。
in their homes and ate together. So the early church, they celebrated。
communion just on their normal everyday meals. So it was not this once-a-month。
special occasion, but it was something that happened continuously. And this。
practice was a way of putting Jesus at the center of their community. And each。
time the early church did that, they remembered when they broke the bread。
that Jesus gave His body for them on the cross. And when they drank the wine, they。
remembered that Jesus gave them forgiveness, but He also made a new。
covenant with them. And they also remembered that Jesus one day will come。
again and He will finish the work, His redeeming work that He has started. So by。
celebrating this meal and the breaking of the bread regularly, the early。
church put the gospel at the center of their community life. But there's another。
aspect that's often overlooked. Breaking the bread together is a powerful way of。
displaying the gospel. When we share meals, or even at that time, meals,。
there was a lot of separation when it came to eating. Now the way I always。
picture it is with, you think of like a Netflix show or some film about eating。
in a high school cafeteria in the US. And you have like the cool table and then。
you have the nerd table or the not-so-cool kids table, and they don't。
eat together. And if you sit down at the wrong table, you will find out. Well in a。
similar way in Greco-Roman society, in Jewish culture, there was a lot of。
separation when it came to eating together. For Greco-Romans, a lot of。
it had to do with power and status and position. Even where you sat already said。
something about where you were on the social ladder. And there was even people。
you're not supposed to eat with, so you didn't eat with them at all. But in this。
early Christian community, which was right from the start, as we heard a few。
weeks ago from Pastor Andrew, was multi-ethnic and socioeconomic diverse。
community, they put Jesus at the center and they focused on the unity of being。
this one family and having shared authority in Jesus. It was not about。
pecking order. And really this is what Jesus had won on the cross for us, that。
we're one reconciled family. Because God makes us family and it's powerful。
when we share a meal at a table together. Now what might that mean for。
us today, being devoted to the breaking of the bread? Well at the Vine,。
we celebrate every first Sunday of the month, we celebrate communion. And I know。
there's been so many times where we're just really strengthened and。
encouraged, or just even deeply touched and moved by Jesus' forgiveness for me.。
But we don't have to just celebrate this once a month, we can celebrate it。
with our friends, with family, maybe with your small group. And so for us today。
this practice of celebrating communions is an anchoring practice that God。
uses to strengthen us, to nourish us, and to pour this grace over us.。
And it's a way of us telling the gospel to each other. You know we。
don't just need to hear the gospel once, and then come to faith. We need to。
hear it regularly, because we live by God's grace. We need to be reminded of it。
and moved by it. So by celebrating communion regularly, we can put Jesus and。
what he did at the center. But we're also declaring that Jesus has made us one。
family, because guess what? Today there still is a lot of separation when it。
comes to eating around the table. There's still a lot of division and strife, so。
don't underestimate the power of what is displayed, the beauty of the。
gospel, of how he makes us one family. So I'm wondering, what is one occasion this。
week, maybe it's a family dinner or a time with a friend, where you can break。
bread together, and you can use 1st Corinthians 11 verse 23 through 26 to。
guide you. It's a way for you to keep the gospel central, and also a step of。
obedience, because Jesus told us and encouraged us to do this. Now another。
practice that the early church devoted themselves to was prayer. The word prayer。
is actually in the plural, so it's "prayers." So it includes corporate prayer,。
includes individual prayer, there probably also is a reference to。
praying during times of prayer, even along with the Jewish community, and。
praying Psalms. But when you read the book of Acts, I mean the theme of prayer。
it's so beautiful, I'm always so encouraged by it. You should do that。
sometime, just read through Acts, just focus on all the times when prayer is。
mentioned, when the church prays, and incredible stuff happens. So for example,。
early on when the church prays, they're seeking guidance for how to。
replace one of the Apostles, and God provides guidance. When Peter is。
arrested and then released, the church prays for courage and boldness, and I。
love this, they didn't pray to be safe, they prayed for courage and boldness, and。
then the place was shaken, and they were filled with the Spirit, and they were。
bold. Then later on, during prayer, there's a vision, and where the Holy Spirit。
speaks through the vision, and there's been separation, and people have。
been excluded, and God wants to remove those barriers, so He speaks。
to His church and prayer through a vision with Peter and。
Cornelius, and tears down those barriers that are keeping people out from。
the Christian community. So prayer for the early church was absolutely。
essential, and God met them, He spoke to them, and He moved powerfully through。
prayer. Now what might being devoted to prayer look like for us today? Well, we've。
also been given this incredible resource, you know, to pray individually,。
corporately, and God still speaks to us the same way. He still speaks to us the。
same way when we pray. It's not just us talking, even though we do that as well,。
but it's also God speaking to us, and He wants to meet us, and He wants to work。
through a church that prays, because when a church prays, powerful。
things happen. Now in my mid-20s, I was on a medical mission ship called Mercy。
Ships, and I attended a discipleship training school, and then part of the。
time I also helped out in the finance department, and during that time, I。
joined an early morning prayer before breakfast. Let me tell you, breakfast was。
really early, which was not my favorite time, but I really felt called to set。
aside that time, and what I loved about Mercy Ships was that they were open to。
having people serve that didn't have a Christian background. So they had a few,。
and one of those people was Rene, he was a German dentist, and so the。
prayer group in the morning, we got to know Rene on the ship, and over... Germans。
have a lot of vacations, so he was there on his vacation, so he was there five weeks or。
something, and over that time, you could just see his whole demeanor change,。
and you know, God was making himself known to him through the community, and。
so on the last day when he was supposed to leave, we were praying in the。
morning, and then suddenly we had the sense that it was important for Rene not。
to leave without becoming a Christian, and so we started praying into that, and。
suddenly we started praying that his flight was canceled so that he would。
have more time, and so we sent Rene off, and he went to the airport, and then。
suddenly later on that evening, I see Rene, and I was like, "Hey Rene, what's up?。
Why are you here?" It's like, "My flight was canceled." I was like, "No way," and he had。
to stay three more days, and he ended up placing his faith in Jesus. And I tell。
you, I was so in awe, because not only had God led us to pray, you know, while we're。
praying, he led us to pray in that way, but he powerfully worked through his。
prayer. Man, that strengthened my faith. You better believe that. So as a church,。
when we're devoted to prayer, God wants to strengthen our faith. He wants。
to bring forth that awe, because God moves when we pray. He moves powerfully.。
So maybe what is one way this week that you can devote yourself to prayer? And。
finally, we're told that they devoted themselves to fellowship. Now the Greek。
word for fellowship, it's probably the best-known Greek word, koinonia, it。
means sharing in common. Now what do we share in common? Well, it's the experience。
of Jesus' saving work in our lives, and the pouring out of the Spirit, and we。
share this life in Christ, in common, together. There's a beautiful description。
in our passage where this koinonia, this life together, is pictured. So I。
want to read this to you. It's in verse 44 through, I will go through。
verse 46, and it says, "All the believers were together," so you see the emphasis on。
together, "and had everything in common. They sold property and possessions to。
give to anyone who had need. Every day they continued to meet together in the。
temple courts. They broke bread in their homes, and they ate together with glad。
and sincere hearts." So they met together, they ate together, and for them it was。
important to gather in these more intimate settings and in smaller groups,。
but to also gather as a large group in the temple courts. And when they did that,。
they did hear the Apostles' teaching, they did pray together, they did care for each。
other in an amazingly generous way, and it's a spirit-filled generosity. It's。
like a king, you know, they thought it was not just be a drudging thing, "Oh no, I have。
to give." It was a joyful thing, it was an investment in the kingdom, and they。
also broke bread together. So what's the significance for us, for being devoted。
to fellowship, to Koinonia here in Hong Kong? What does that look like?。
Well, one of the obvious things is that we're meant to be both in those more。
intimate and in this larger settings where we do life together, and God gives。
us each other so that we can encourage each other and build each other up in。
our faith and strengthen each other. And we actually need each other. Christianity。
is not meant to be lived on our own. I don't know about you, but I've。
experienced so many times God working through brothers and sisters in my life,。
you know, both in the joys and in the sorrows and in the in-betweens, and。
it is so powerful when we get to share life together. And there's also a。
deep caring for one another and in knowing what the needs are, because when。
we know each other well, we also know when someone is in need, and then the。
community can rise to the occasion, and we can care for each other in a steep。
way. So we don't have to walk into the future in Hong Kong by ourselves, but we。
can get to walk in the future as a church family together, and we can have。
the support network so we can face this future with faith and courage. So if you。
haven't been able to connect to one of our smaller communities, we have a lot of。
incredible ones. Actually, let me tell you about a few of them. We have a Filipino。
community called Philcom, we have the Cantonese community, we have the Mandarin。
community, we have community groups, of course, we have the K4C community. They're。
also a community of parents and children. We have, of course, community groups. We。
have a RISE community. So do go scan that QR code and check out ways for。
getting connected. Maybe that is, for some of you, really the step that。
God is inviting you to take today. So God strengthens us when we are devoted to。
fellowship. Now at the beginning of the message, I asked how can we as Christians。
in Hong Kong strengthen and build a robust faith now so that we can walk。
confidently and courageously into the future? Well, our passage gives us the。
answer. We can strengthen our faith by being devoted to the Apostles' teaching, to。
God's Word, by being devoted to fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and。
to prayer. The church is weak when it is not devoted to God's Word, does not live。
in fellowship, does not pray, and does not break bread together. But when we commit。
ourselves to these practices and we persist in them, you know, something。
beautiful happens. We open our lives to God and God fills us with this Holy。
Spirit. And this beautiful, courageous, and vibrant, and Spirit-filled faith and。
community moves forward. So let me ask you this. In what ways right now are you。
sensing the Holy Spirit inviting you to respond to this message? Which one of。
these four areas has God been speaking to you about? And what is one concrete。
way that you are going to respond? Church, I don't know about you, but I am so。
inspired and moved when I look at this community, this early Christian。
community, and all the implications for us, and how it inspires us, how we can be。
the church, and how God wants to strengthen us in the season in our faith.。
And you know, we're gonna get to write this beautiful chapter of this。
unfinished story of the church in Hong Kong. Well church, let me pray for us.。
Jesus, I thank you so much that you make us family, that you invite us。
into a relationship with you, that you speak to us when we spend time in your。
Word, that you make your will and your purpose for us known, that you give us。
personal words that we need to hear. Jesus, I thank you that you give us。
prayer, that when we just talk with you, when we converse with you, that。
you speak to us, that you give us visions, that you guide your church.。
And Jesus, I thank you for fellowship, that we get to do this life together,。
that we're not on our own. We can walk into this future faithfully,。
and with strong and a resilient faith, because we have each other, and you。
use us to strengthen each other. And so Lord, I just pray that you would。
fill us now with your Spirit, and that you will lead us as we respond, and。
go back to these basics, and just make the space in our lives for you. I pray。
all this in your name Jesus amen。
