Thank you, Alison. Happy Chinese New Year, everyone.。
So I hope you all had some good time over the past few days,。
perhaps enjoying some good food,。
enjoying some time with your family and friends.。
Or if you say, "Oh, I don't really celebrate Chinese New Year,"。
I hope you enjoy some time off during the public holiday as well.。
So, my name is Jennifer.。
I grew up in Hong Kong and my family is quite a traditional Chinese one.。
So Chinese New Year has always been a big thing that we celebrate,。
especially when I was a kid.。
So there are a lot of things that we do as a family.。
We need to clean our house.。
We go visit our families.。
We buy new clothes and we will host dinners at our place as well.。
So it's been a lot that we do in the New Year,。
but the intention behind the whole thing is really。
we hope to start our year well.。
So among all the things,。
there's one thing that I would like to highlight to you today。
is during Chinese New Year, we will say some blessings to each other.。
So, for example, my family has been teaching me that。
each family can be different,。
but my family has been teaching me that。
the very first thing I say to a person。
if this is my first time seeing them in a New Year is a blessing.。
So in case, like, for example, Gordon,。
this is our first time meeting in a New Year.。
So I'm supposed to say a blessing over him,。
something like "Happy Chinese New Year" or "Congratulations on Chinese New Year,"。
things like that.。
The very first thing I say to him should be a blessing.。
So let me introduce a few blessings。
that are commonly used among the Chinese community in Hong Kong.。
So the first one, I think many of you will be heard of this,。
is "Gong Hei Fat Choy."。
It means "Wish you get rich."。
And then the second one is "Sun Tai Gin Hong,"。
is "Wish you good health."。
Sounds good, right?。
And then the third one is an interesting one。
that I would like to teach you,。
is "Sam Sang Si Sing."。
(audience murmurs)。
Doing good.。
And the literal translation is,。
"I wish your heart desires come true."。
It sounds really good, right?。
Sometimes I really hope things happen that way,。
that, like, my heart desires will come true.。
And, yeah, as I said, like, the whole idea behind this。
is to start our year well,。
and there's also a belief behind that.。
If we do these things, it will bring us good luck。
throughout the whole year.。
So my family is not a Christian one,。
so they really take this tradition very seriously.。
So growing up, the very first thing I need to do。
on a New Year day, before even brushing my teeth,。
is to go to my parents' bedroom。
and say at least three blessings to each of them.。
If I pass the exam, I will get my life's seat.。
(audience laughs)。
From them.。
So that's how it works.。
And also, my parents would always make sure。
I say the right thing to the right people,。
like, especially when they're around me.。
So, for example, if I'm seeing an older person,。
I must say, "I wish you good health."。
If I'm seeing a business person,。
I must say, "I wish you get rich."。
So this is how serious it is for my family.。
It sounds like an oral exam, I know,。
but sometimes I feel like it as well.。
So, slowly, this whole tradition,。
because I have to do this every year,。
my parents will make me say something。
to them and to other people.。
And it has become a formula to me in my head.。
So whenever I see a person,。
my brain will automatically go search the right word。
I should say to them in a new year.。
But do these words run through my heart?。
Do I really bless them wholeheartedly?。
Maybe not.。
I almost feel like I'm just doing it for doing's sake.。
I do it because this is what a Chinese does during CNY.。
And how about you?。
If you're a Chinese in this room,。
perhaps you can resonate this with me as well.。
Perhaps you also find yourself just blessing one another,。
like out of the ritual or tradition.。
It feels like we are doing things out of habit.。
And I hope I'm not lonely in this room feeling that way.。
And perhaps for those who are not Chinese in this room,。
you might not 100% understand what I was saying,。
but actually there are things。
we Christians say to each other as well.。
Let me give you some example.。
Like, God bless you.。
Or I'll pray for you.。
Or, I hear some laugh already.。
Let's catch up some time.。
How about this?。
Or I would like to involve more and serve more.。
Do they sound familiar?。
Yeah, these are the things that we say to each other as well.。
But are we saying from the bottom of our hearts,。
do we always mean it?。
Or do we always back our words with our actions?。
Last week, Pastor Promise shared with us。
that Jonathan said he loved David as himself.。
And Jonathan backed these words up。
with his whole life, actually.。
So for us as well,。
it is important to back our words with actions.。
And right now, we are still at the beginning of the year.。
Do any of us have the New Year resolution。
of spending more time with God,。
or spending more time to pray,。
or spending more time to read the Bible?。
I'm one of them.。
So how is it going?。
I need to confess that I say these things every year。
at the beginning of the year.。
But when my schedule gets full,。
the first thing I sacrifice is spending time with God too.。
And of course, personally,。
I want to spend more time with God.。
And I'm sure all of us in this room。
would want to be closer to God as well.。
We want to be more like Jesus.。
We want to make Him pleased with all the things we do.。
But why do we stop at wanting to do something,。
but not making it happen?。
Why do we say we are going to do something,。
but not following through with it?。
So to be honest, our faith does not work。
like the Chinese New Year blessing,。
(speaking in foreign language)。
may your heart's desire come true.。
Our heart's desire do not just come true automatically.。
And we always need to do something and make them happen.。
In the year of 2025, as a church,。
we have a theme of action.。
I think many of us are very excited。
to do something together.。
It is really essential to allow our action。
to align with our heart's desire,。
and more importantly, to align with our faith.。
We don't want to do something together just for doing's sake。
or the other way around,。
that we want to do something,。
but we stop at just wanting or saying。
and end up not doing it.。
So it is amazing that there's a whole book in the Bible。
that tells us about moving our faith into action.。
As we read it, we might find his theology。
a little bit different from Paul's。
saved by faith along theology,。
as he argues the importance of action coming with our faith.。
But if we look into it deeper,。
we will find it makes sense。
because he asks practical application to Paul's theology.。
And this book is written by the apostle James,。
and therefore the book is called the book of James.。
We will look into a few verses in chapter two today.。
And let me read it for you.。
What good is it, my brothers and sisters,。
if someone claims to have faith but has no deeds?。
Can such faith save them?。
Suppose a brother or a sister。
is without clothes and daily food.。
If one of you says to them,。
"Go in peace, keep warm and well fed,"。
but does nothing about their physical needs,。
what good is it?。
In the same way, faith by itself,。
if it is not accompanied by action, is dead.。
But someone will say, "You have faith, I have deeds.。
"Show me your faith without deeds,。
"and I will show you my faith by my deeds."。
You believe that there is one God, good.。
Even the demons believe that and shudder.。
You foolish person, do you want evidence。
that faith without deeds is useless?。
Was not our father Abraham considered righteous。
for what he did when he offered his son Isaac on the altar?。
You see that his faith and his actions were working together。
and his faith was made complete by what he did.。
And the scripture was fulfilled that says,。
"Abraham believed God and it was credited to him。
"as righteousness, and he was called God's friend."。
You see that a person is considered righteous。
by what they do and not by faith alone.。
In the same way, was not even Rahab the prostitute。
considered righteous for what she did。
when she gave lodging to the spies。
and sent them off in a different direction?。
As the body without the spirit is dead,。
so faith without deeds is dead.。
So here, James is clarifying what a true faith is,。
what it means to be a Christian.。
James asked us a question.。
What good is faith without deeds?。
In other words, what good is faith without action?。
Is faith only about believing。
there's one God who is Jesus Christ?。
Let's ask ourselves this question for a moment.。
Is our faith authentic faith。
if we never reach to a point of action?。
We can imagine if the apostles who had faith,。
but they never reached to a point of action,。
I think the church today would not have existed.。
And as Jesus called the disciples,。
he did not just call them to believe。
that he is the son of God.。
In fact, Jesus called the disciples to follow,。
and following is an action.。
Some of you might start thinking,。
didn't Jesus and the apostle Paul emphasize。
that we are saved by faith and grace。
instead of following the law?。
That is very true that we are saved by grace of God alone.。
And in fact, we can never save ourselves by doing anything.。
The deeds James is referring here。
isn't the deeds of the law,。
but the deeds as a demonstration of our faith outwardly.。
It might sound similar or it might look the same。
because we can be doing the same thing,。
but internally it could be very different.。
Let me give you a simple example.。
So let's talk about praying before a meal.。
So I grew up with a teaching that if I am a real Christian,。
I must pray before every meal.。
And it doesn't matter whom I'm eating with,。
it doesn't matter whether or not they are Christians,。
but my prayer needs to be visible。
to the people I'm eating with.。
I can be praying silently,。
but I need to show that I'm praying。
and show that I'm a Christian.。
So if we think about this,。
like it sounds like the works of the law, right?。
Because it operates like this,。
because we are a Christian,。
therefore we need to pray before every meal。
to show that I'm a Christian.。
But while there are other people。
who praise before every meal,。
because they believe that,。
we believe that everything is provided by God,。
every meal is provided by God.。
So we want to give him thanks before every meal.。
And it is totally different from the motive.。
Like it is an outworking action from what we believe.。
So these two things, these two examples,。
they can look exactly the same.。
We are both like, they're all praying before a meal,。
but they actually come from very different motives.。
And therefore they can have very different results.。
And I want us to pay attention。
to how James understands the relationship。
of faith and deeds.。
In verse 14, he says,。
"What good is it if someone claims to have faith,。
"but has no deeds?"。
Let's pay attention here.。
James didn't say,。
"What good is it if someone has faith, but has no deeds?"。
He said, "Someone who claims to have faith."。
In other words, James is referring to someone。
who says they have faith,。
but never reached to a point of action.。
And these people, they are deceiving themselves.。
And the faith is just a self-declaration.。
But again, James is not introducing。
some new salvation formula。
that is different from Jesus' teaching.。
He's not telling us that faith plus action。
equals to salvation.。
It's not like now we have faith in Jesus。
and we add a little bit of action in there,。
then that's salvation.。
He is telling us that faith by its own nature。
includes action.。
In other words, action is the result of our faith.。
We desire to do something for God。
because we have been given a new hope,。
a new life, a new identity.。
And out of the faith and salvation,。
we have received from God,。
we put that salvation into practice.。
It doesn't add to our salvation,。
it is an outworking of our salvation.。
So action is the natural result of our faith.。
So we can't have faith but do nothing about it.。
And James used Abraham as an example,。
that Abraham has faith,。
but he also had deeds that originated in his faith.。
And because of his actions that followed from his faith,。
God declared him as righteous.。
Faith is like a seed planted inside each one of us。
and our words and our actions are the fruits of our faith.。
In fact, we are all different。
and our action can look very differently.。
And most of us here in this room,。
I'm sure you're not called to sacrifice your son, right?。
Right, Alison?。
[audience laughing]。
But there is one thing that is applicable。
to all of us today is like,。
there is a cost in following Jesus.。
It means putting our faith into action,。
it means following God's call and do something.。
And it could look differently to each of us.。
So I would like to ask, how is God calling you to act?。
Is there anything God is conflicting you to do for him。
in the coming year?。
One more thing I would like to highlight in this passage。
is that James concerns our faith in relation to others.。
He gave us a scenario in verses 15 to 16。
that if a person who has no clothes, no daily food。
and he came to us, but if we say to them,。
go in peace, keep warm and well fed,。
but do nothing about their physical needs,。
how do we feel about this?。
It sounds terrible, right?。
But if we are honest,。
sometimes we Christians do this as well.。
When we see people in need, we might say,。
God bless you or I'll pray for you.。
Praying is great and blessing people is wonderful as well,。
it's powerful.。
We need to continue to do this to people.。
But let's be reminded that our faith cannot stop。
at saying something nice to each other,。
but not doing anything about it.。
James says, such faith is dead.。
Let's do better than this.。
So what does living faith mean?。
If we read the rest of the book of James,。
which is heavily on the topic of faith and deeds,。
he says a lot about our relationship with other.。
He speaks again favoritism,。
he says about caring for the poor.。
Again, this is not some laws for us to follow,。
but our faith conflicts us to showcase the love of God。
to people around us.。
This is who God is.。
This is a God who loves and cares for people,。
not just saying it, but through our action.。
And sometimes it will mean meeting people's physical needs.。
I'm not saying that we need to meet everyone's need。
when they come all the time,。
but sometimes it does mean that we need to meet。
physical needs of people.。
And more importantly, God called us to be part of his action.。
He called us to be more like him.。
And through our actions, we are demonstrating who God is。
to the people around us.。
It is always about people.。
God does not just intend us to be isolated。
and to be close to him only.。
God always intend us to follow our faith。
to shape us in how we are interacting with people.。
This is also what Jesus commanded us, to love one another.。
As we are actioning, it is important to keep in mind。
that we are not just doing something good。
in the public's eyes,。
but we are actually doing the work of God。
as the followers of Jesus.。
As the love of God is in us,。
and we are to reflect who God is。
and bring the love of God to the world.。
This might sound very big and scary,。
but loving people can be really reflected。
in the smallest ways on a personal level.。
It is really a way of living.。
So how do we do this?。
How do we practically put James' call into action。
in the city of Hong Kong?。
In a relationship that we had around us?。
How do we ensure we're not just saying words,。
but putting our faith into action?。
Let me give you a few examples。
to help you to think about this,。
and then you can think about how you can apply it。
into your own life.。
So in today's culture, people tend to put ourselves first,。
especially in Hong Kong.。
We value efficiency and convenience.。
We can't waste one minute on anything, really.。
If we get to the train station,。
if we see the next train is in three minutes,。
it's too long, right?。
And you can tell how efficient we are。
by how we walk on the street,。
by how we drive on the road, right?。
So Hong Kong people do not really value being considerate,。
to be honest.。
You know what I mean?。
So, (laughs)。
so what does following Jesus in this space look like?。
How can we be considerate to people。
as we are living in this environment?。
And also, with our friends as well,。
we always say to each other,。
"Let's catch up more, let's hang out."。
But do we always put that in our schedule。
and make time for that?。
Or we put it in our schedule,。
it makes it to my schedule,。
but I don't feel like it on the day,。
so what do I do?。
These things sound familiar, right?。
So what does loving people mean in this space as well?。
And I think being consistent and honoring people's time。
is one way to do it.。
And our faith does not only exist for the big moments,。
the turning points in our life.。
Our faith is also reflected in these smallest things。
in our everyday life, how we treat people,。
how we make choices,。
how we choose to put other people's needs above ourselves.。
Where do we choose to sit or stand in a public transport。
or on a Sunday, or in what condition。
we are leaving the bathroom to the next person。
is one way to reflect it.。
You know what I mean?。
These smallest things in our life,。
have we thought about what kind of faith。
are we demonstrating, or what do we want to demonstrate?。
How is your faith conflicting you。
on how to interact with people?。
Is your faith conflicting you to do something。
for the people in need?。
Let me share my story of how God conflicted me personally。
to put my faith into action when I was in seminary.。
So I started studying in seminary。
before I actually started working in ministry.。
I was working in corporate, I was thinking about ministry,。
so I started a part-time program in a seminary.。
And then later I joined the staff team at the Fine,。
so I've started working here also as a full-time staff.。
So in my seminary life,。
I have always been a part-time student。
with a full-time job.。
As you can imagine,。
I need to be quite diligent with how I use my time.。
I need to set good boundaries at work。
so I can get off on time and show in school, in person,。
and yes, my school requires me to go in person all the time.。
And then also to make time to do my coursework as well,。
to write assignments, write the papers,。
so my time being in school campus。
has always been very functional.。
When I show up in school, I was either in class。
or either I'm hiding in library doing my research。
and doing my homework.。
By the way, I love working in library.。
It's quiet, it has a lot of books and resources,。
and I can be quiet processing the thoughts in my mind,。
so I really love that.。
However, one big belief of my school。
is that we are a learning community,。
and community plays a big part in our learning。
and equipping process, which I really appreciate now,。
not so much back then.。
So whenever my school has some optional events,。
like show-show events,。
I had a very easy excuse that I say all the time.。
I'm just a part-time student,。
I can't commit to anything else.。
So my school was very gracious。
to part-time students like me,。
and I held on to my excuse for a few years.。
In my first few years, I was really happy with my pattern,。
but until I started working here in ministry,。
I started to feel that my study pattern doesn't seem right.。
It feels like I'm just there。
to fulfill the course requirement。
and to just get a degree.。
Although if I was still able to learn something new,。
that was not enough.。
So I realized my pattern does not allow me。
to fulfill what I was sensing God is calling me to do.。
Something needs to change.。
If I also believe that community plays a part。
in my learning and equipping process,。
I can't be just showing up to the class。
and then hiding in the library all the time.。
If I also believe that community。
is an expression of my faith,。
if I believe that Jesus is calling me。
to learn with those people,。
I need to actually spend time with them.。
And my next steps is to actually doing it.。
I can't be saying to my schoolmates。
that I want to get more involved。
and spend more time with you,。
but not doing anything about it.。
I needed to sort out my priorities.。
It doesn't mean that I don't care。
about my work here or my study anymore.。
Those two things still have higher priority in my life,。
but I needed to prioritize my schoolmates,。
perhaps over my excuses at the moments。
that I don't feel like it.。
And I need to prioritize people over my comfort zone,。
which is the library.。
I needed to change my pattern,。
which means showing up to the common area。
instead of the library,。
make time to talk to people,。
enjoying their social events.。
And I needed to drop my excuses。
and walk out of my comfort zone.。
Was I stretched?。
Absolutely.。
Does it worth it?。
Even so.。
So I wonder if you're holding on to any excuses。
and allowing those to stop you。
from doing what God is calling you to do.。
As I shared at the beginning,。
during CNY, we often say things to people out of habit。
or rituals, but not really meaning it.。
We can't go forward as Christians here,。
especially in the year of action in 2025。
with the same attitude.。
We must check our hearts and ask ourselves,。
where our motives are coming from.。
This is step number one.。
But we can't stop here.。
We can't just follow with our mouths only.。
We must put our faith into action.。
In order to do that,。
we will look into some practical ways。
we can put our faith into actions.。
So the first one is to seek God.。
As I said just now,。
checking our hearts and motive is step one.。
Before we take any actions,。
we need to be intentional about。
to allow God speak to us on what and how to act,。
just like what the apostles did.。
Like I said, it doesn't have to be big things all the time.。
We can ask God each day how we can demonstrate our faith。
and his love before we go about our day,。
before we go to work, before we go to school,。
when we wake up in the morning or on our way.。
We can ask God about that.。
And also, if you have important things during the day,。
do that before your important meetings.。
Ask God how would he want you to act.。
And then number two is we need to watch our choices.。
As we go about our day,。
there are a lot of things we do out of habits,。
like getting on trains, going to work,。
going out for lunch, doing our groceries.。
We might not pay attention to these moments,。
but there are actually a lot of human interactions。
in those spaces,。
and we make a lot of choices out of habit.。
So perhaps we can be intentional about our choices。
and ask ourselves,。
are we choosing to be considerate to people?。
Are we choosing to demonstrate love。
to people with our choices?。
And number three, it is our priorities.。
Let's be honest, we all have limited time and resources.。
As we look at our schedule, ask ourselves,。
what are our top priorities。
that we must give our attention to?。
And what are the things that are occupying us。
from doing the important things?。
And are there any excuses we are holding onto,。
like what I did in seminary?。
If there is something that God is convicting us to do,。
we need to make time for that。
and make them one of our priorities.。
And the final one is to honor our promises.。
If we say to God or we say to each other。
that we will do something, let's honor that.。
If you are bad at this, perhaps put it in your diaries。
or setting an alarm or reminder,。
or perhaps ask someone who is close to you。
to keep you on track and hold you accountable.。
Just find a way that is workable for you.。
And let's approach 2025 together。
with putting our words into action and live out our faith.。
If we want to spend more time to read the Bible,。
open the Bible and read it.。
I can't think of anything else。
that other way that we can do it.。
If you want to spend more time to pray,。
take away your phone or other distractions and pray.。
This is the only way to do it.。
If you want to serve the people around you,。
make sure you commit yourself to prioritize this。
so you don't make people down.。
And I hope in 2025, we will be a community。
that allow our faith to shape us inwardly and outwardly.。
And also as a community,。
as we are entering into a year of action,。
if you also believe that action is part of our faith,。
get ourself ready to be part of the action.。
Not because everyone else is doing it,。
not just doing it for doing's sake,。
but let's demonstrate our faith as a church.。
So I hope this is encouraging,。
this excites you to do something for God.。
As I said, it could look very differently to each one of us。
because we are all unique。
and we all have different sphere of influence.。
So I'm not sure how you feel about this。
or how clear you feel that God is calling you。
to do something, but I'm sure if you are a believer,。
you have a relationship with Jesus.。
He has a purpose in you.。
And there is a way that you can be part of his action,。
no matter in a big way or in a small way.。
So may I invite you to stand as we pray to close.。
(silence)。
Dear Jesus, we thank you.。
We thank you that you are such an almighty God。
and with all the powers in your hand,。
you can basically do anything by yourself,。
but you have chosen us to be your people。
and you have chosen us to be part of your action.。
Lord, we thank you so much for this opportunity。
and we thank you so much。
that we are called to be your people.。
Lord, we pray for each one of us in this room.。
We believe that you have a purpose in each one of us.。
You intend us to shine for you。
and to be your hands and feet。
in our different spaces we have in our lives.。
That you intend us to love the people around us。
and to show what your love is to the people around us.。
So Lord, we pray that your Holy Spirit will show us。
how we can love the people around us,。
how we can be in action for you,。
not only in the big moments,。
remind us to not overlook the small everyday moments.。
Show us what you see.。
Show us how we can serve you。
and serve other people in those areas.。
And also to allow us to grow in loving people and compassion.。
And we pray for those who of us。
who might not 100% sure what the purpose is,。
how we can follow this.。
Lord, we pray that you will show us,。
not only show us, but you will take us on this journey。
and you will show us on each step we are taking.。
And for those of who of us are really excited about this,。
we already know that you have put a calling in us.。
We are excited to put that calling into action。
in the coming year.。
Lord, we pray that you will remind us。
to be even more attentive to your heart,。
to seek you first before we do anything,。
to seek you all the time.。
Lord, may you give us an attentive heart.。
And we invite the Holy Spirit to continue。
to config us as one community,。
to config us on how we can serve you together。
as one church, as one community.。
And if we are holding onto any fears, any excuses,。
we pray that you will give us the courage。
and you will give us the strength to overcome them.。
Lord, thank you that you have sent us。
to be part of your action,。
and yet you didn't leave us alone.。
And your Holy Spirit is always there。
to guide us and lead us.。
And we have one another to do them together.。
So Lord, in the coming year,。
we pray that we can be your hands and feet。
and we can bring your love to the world around us.。
And we thank you in Jesus' name.。
