One of the things that we're doing here in the month of June and July at the Vine is。
Branches of Hope Awareness Month.。
If you've been coming to the Vine for a while, you'll know that Branches of Hope is the NGO。
that the Vine supports as part of the wider ministry of our church, where we're working。
with two groups of vulnerable people in our city, asylum seekers and refugees, and those。
that are caught up in forced labor or human trafficking in our city.。
And so we serve those two areas through the work of Branches of Hope.。
And Branches of Hope Awareness Month is a month that starts on World Refugee Day, that。
starts on June 20th, just last week, and goes all the way to July 30th, where we have World。
Day Against the Trafficking of Persons.。
And in between that time, we celebrate the work that we do in this NGO.。
And there's a bunch of things that are happening over the month, both internally here at the。
Vine, also externally out in the city.。
Find out more about that, you can just go to branchesofhope.org.hk/Boham, branchesofhope.org.hk/Boham.。
Branches of Hope Awareness Month 2022, and that'll be a way to find out a little bit。
more.。
There's two events that are coming up that I wanted to highlight today.。
The first is we're gonna have Branches of Hope Sunday next week.。
So next week, our whole service is gonna be focused on the work that we do with asylum。
seekers and refugees, as well as those caught up in trafficking in Hong Kong.。
And we're gonna be telling you a lot more about that work.。
What we're calling it is our voices and our stories.。
And what we're gonna be doing is letting you hear the voices of the various clients that。
we serve in those two areas.。
And so you're gonna hear their personal stories, you're gonna hear what it's like for them。
to be in Hong Kong at this time, the challenges that they face.。
And that's gonna be a great way for you to be a little bit more informed about some of。
the vulnerable groups that we serve and how you also can be involved in helping the work。
of Branches of Hope here in Hong Kong.。
So that will be next Sunday.。
And then starting on July 9th, there's an incredible restaurant in Hong Kong called。
Orca.。
It's run by two people from the Vine Church.。
It's on Wyndham Street.。
If you've never been there for food, I can highly recommend it.。
They're not paying me to say this.。
But they're gonna be hosting a photography exhibition that's based on the idea of our。
voices and our stories, a photography exhibition that tells the story of some of the clients。
that Branches of Hope serve.。
So from July 9th onwards, you can go to Orca Restaurant on Wyndham Street.。
You can have a fantastic meal with you and your family.。
And then the proceeds from some of the meals will be given to Branches of Hope, as well。
as the photography exhibition will be there in the restaurant.。
So you can check that out.。
And it's a great way of telling friends and family a little bit about that work for vulnerable。
people, which can also lead into a great conversation about Jesus.。
So check out the restaurant.。
Check out that photography exhibition.。
I think that'll be a blessing to you.。
Well, this week ahead for Hong Kong is one of the most important weeks in Hong Kong's。
history.。
July 1st is this Friday.。
It's not just a day off.。
It's a significant day for leadership transition in our city.。
That's not every July 1st, but this year, because we've had a transition in our chief。
executive, that transition takes place on July 1st.。
Carrie Lam will be handing over as chief executive, and John Lee will be becoming our new chief。
executive, and his cabinet is all being sworn in on that day.。
We also heard this week that Xi Jinping is going to be visiting Hong Kong on July 1st.。
He's going to be a part of that transition process.。
Whether there's change or transition of any leadership in any city or any country, that。
requires a prayer.。
It requires a sense of understanding what's happening in our city.。
And the Scriptures are very clear that we are to pray for those who are in governing。
authority over us.。
We know in Scripture that our ultimate authority is God and God alone.。
Paul in Ephesians says, "His is the name that is above every name," another way of translating。
that.。
"His is the title above every other title."。
In other words, every authority sits under Jesus Christ.。
At the same time, the Bible encourages us to pray for the human authorities that govern。
us so that our lives will go well, so that they'll be flourishing in the land, and that。
is something that we think is important to do here at the Vine.。
And so with this week ahead of us, with July 1st right there, we wanted to take some time。
in this service to really pray and pray for that leadership transition in our cities.。
Does that sound good?。
So, can I invite you all to stand?。
Again, I know it's a little bit like yoga today, up and down, up and down, up and down.。
But we want to stand before the Lord as we pray for Hong Kong and as we pray for this。
leadership transition.。
And I just want to say, no matter how you might feel about the leadership in this city,。
no matter how you might feel about that transition, we need to pray and pray that the Spirit of。
God would bless our city.。
So let's pray.。
Father, we just come before you today with Hong Kong as we come into this important week。
of our city's history.。
Father, the first thing we want to do is pray for Carrie Lam.。
Lord, we want to pray as she transitions out from being chief executive and back into normal。
private life.。
And Lord, we know that she has stressed in the last couple of weeks that her desire is。
to rest and spend time with her family.。
So Lord, we want to pray for that transition for her.。
We can't understand what it is that she must be going through as she thinks about handing。
over the reins of leadership in this city and spending more time with her family.。
But we do want to pray that you would give her rest.。
We do want to pray that you would restore and strengthen her relationships with her。
loved ones and Lord, that that would be a time of flourishing for her.。
Lord, we pray for John Lee as he steps in to take on leadership here in Hong Kong.。
Lord, we ask that you would give him great wisdom and strength for the work that you're。
going to require of him.。
Lord, we pray that he would have justice on his heart.。
Lord, we pray that you would bless him with your spirit to lead to the best of his ability,。
Lord.。
Lord, we pray for the cabinet that's being sworn in around him.。
We thank you for the men and women that he has raised up and Lord, we pray that you would。
also place your hand upon them and guide them.。
Lord, we pray for the churches of this city, knowing that you have called us to be your。
hands and feet in this time.。
Lord, we ask that you would cause the church to be in prayer for its city in this time.。
Lord, we know that the ultimate hope of any city, of any nation is the local church.。
And so Lord, we want to pray for the infusing of your spirit and your power upon your local。
church to be your hands and feet in this time, in this hour.。
That we would be on our knees praying for those that lead us, that we'd be on our knees。
praying for justice, that we'd be on our knees praying for the gospel to have its greatest。
fruit in our city like never before.。
As we just prayed earlier, we pray that the church in this city is not defeated and Lord,。
we pray that you would release us as a prayer people dedicated for blessing our city so。
that all that live in it, and we say all that live in it, would flourish.。
And we thank you for this in Jesus' name, everyone says.。
Amen.。
Thank you so much.。
You can have a seat again.。
No, actually stand up again.。
No, just kidding.。
Don't stand up again.。
No, no, you can have a seat.。
Sorry, I'm gonna make you up and down.。
I just like doing that.。
We're gonna move into a time of offering today and as we do our offering, it's just a way。
of us giving our worship to Christ and making sure that what he's given us, we're able to。
give freely.。
And you're gonna be hearing a little bit more about that in our message today.。
But we always do offering right now digitally as well as touchless as we're calling it in。
this time of COVID-19.。
On your chair, there's an envelope.。
If you wanna give digitally, you just scan the QR codes.。
If you wanna give through a cash, credit card, or check, you could do that by filling in。
the envelope that's on your chair.。
And then after the service, either on the fourth floor or here on the second floor,。
just walk out.。
There's a little kind of see-through sort of plastic box.。
You can put your envelope in there and that's a way for you to be able to do your offering.。
Let me pray for us as we come in to do that today.。
Father, we thank you for the gift that it is to share in giving.。
Lord, we thank you that you called us to be stewards of the resources that you've given。
to us.。
Lord, as we steward those resources well, Lord, we pray that we would do so without。
strings attached.。
Our hands would be open before you.。
That Lord, we would give to you, Lord, knowing and trusting that you know exactly what it。
is that the vine needs.。
And Lord, we know that exactly what is given is what you want to bless this church with.。
Lord, I pray that you would help us as the vine to be open-handed towards the needs that。
are within our community.。
You would help us also to be open-handed towards the missions and ministry organizations that。
we support as a church.。
Lord, that we would do this because it is part of that stewardship.。
And Lord, we recognize that as we give, we can never out-give you.。
And Lord, I want to pray for your resources to flow over every person in this room as。
they are open-handed as stewards of all the things that you've given them.。
And we thank you for this in Jesus' name, everyone says, amen.。
Well, we're continuing our series, The Unfinished Story, together today.。
We've got a couple of more weeks left in the book of Acts as we've been studying and looking。
at discipleship and evangelism in the book of Acts.。
And today, we're looking at a really important passage where Paul comes and does a farewell。
with the elders of Ephesus.。
And it's such a beautiful, profound, and very personal story.。
And I couldn't think of anyone better to share that story with us than one of our elders,。
Sidney Yip.。
Can you put your hands together as Sidney comes?。
And I'm going to pray for Sidney.。
Father, just thank you so much for this man who, as chairman of our eldership, takes on。
a real mantle of responsibility and leadership here at the Vine, but does so with great humility。
and love.。
Lord, as he preaches out of what's a very personal story for Paul, and also a very personal。
story for Sidney, I pray that you would open our own hearts to what it is that you want。
to say to us.。
Would you challenge us, Lord, and change us?。
And we thank you for this.。
In Jesus' name, everyone says, "Amen."。
Hey, thank you, Andrew.。
Sorry.。
It was 25 years ago, in the year of 1997, that we bid farewell to this land, supposedly。
for good, and we emigrated to Singapore.。
While we were residing there, my parents made a difficult trip to come down and visit us。
and to spend time with us.。
I had a heart-to-heart talk with him.。
The honest question we had to ask is whether he would spend his last days with us, his。
next generation, in a foreign land, or he might choose to come back to Hong Kong, his。
hometown.。
But that would also mean that it would be the last time that we embrace him in this。
land of the living.。
We made the decision to fly back to Hong Kong with my mom while he could still travel, with。
full knowledge that that is very likely his last time.。
While God was gracious, we actually had a few other occasions whereby we traveled and。
visited him.。
In fact, the whole family, three siblings, we came back from three different countries。
with our next generation to witness his water baptism in the hospital ground.。
In a few weeks down the road, he was able to witness my mom's water baptism.。
And that very night, he passed on peacefully.。
What a farewell.。
And today we are going to refer to the farewell from Paul to the elders of Ephesus upon his。
rounding up his third missionary journey, on route to Jerusalem.。
So surely Paul has much to say to his church and to us, and we have much to learn.。
So Paul will set an example for us to live for Christ and to endure sufferings.。
He will encourage the elders, and indeed all of us, to shepherd over the flock.。
And last, none the least, that how we may give to be a blessing.。
Throughout this message, I will try to put together that binding to the Holy Spirit,。
that love by serving and watching over others, and giving are all integrated.。
But I think it would be helpful that we do a quick recap of the ministry of Paul in Ephesus.。
After all, he spent two years in this mission station, much longer than any others, including。
Corinth.。
He ministered in Ephesus, and he performed extraordinary miracles of healing, of ministry,。
of the Word.。
And in fact, there is this comic story.。
A family of seven sons of a Jewish priest, they imitated Paul and invoked the name of。
Jesus Christ to practice exorcism.。
But of course, the demon won't listen to them, and in fact, those sons were badly beaten。
up by the demons.。
But that gave an awe and fear that gripped the people of Ephesus.。
They have such reference for the name of Jesus Christ.。
It was recorded in Acts 19, "When this became known to the Jews and great living Ephesus,。
they were all seized with fear, and the name of the Lord Jesus was held in high esteem."。
In this way, the Word of the Lord spread widely and grew in power.。
The city of Ephesus and its culture was literally transformed by Paul's ministry.。
And most of all, the Word of God spread throughout Asia Minor, which was the key commercial route。
linking the eastern and the western part of the Roman Empire.。
Well, we almost yearned for the same kind of impactful ministry here in Hong Kong to。
be replicated.。
After the famous riots in Ephesus, God set His heart to preach all the way to Rome, and。
by now, He would travel out to Macedonia and Greece to collect love offerings for the Judean。
church.。
While He was departing Greece, the Jews made up a plot so Paul has to make a deroute.。
He has to pass by Ephesus, and therefore, he could only call upon the elders to say。
a final farewell.。
Church, let's appreciate the power in this old Paul.。
And the power really comes from the very personal and intimate relationship between Paul and。
his beloved church.。
Acts 20, "When they arrived, he said to them, 'You know how I lived the whole time I was。
with you.。
On the first day I came to the province of Asia, I served with great humility and with。
tears in the midst of severe testing by the flaws of my Jewish opponents.。
You know I have not hesitated to preach anything that will be helpful to you.'"。
Paul has three main themes to cover.。
He's presenting himself as an example for the Ephesian elders.。
He presents to them a charge and a warning.。
And finally, how he commits them to God.。
Obviously, the most prominent theme of Paul would be his own example.。
He was an example as he identified with the people.。
He lived amongst them.。
He served God with humility and tears, and he went from house to house to preach.。
Indeed, he served the God with great humility and with tears.。
And it is here that we have a glimpse into the very tender side of Paul.。
While we must know that humility is not a virtue readily embraced by the Roman culture,。
rather it was often thought to be a representation, a sign of weakness for the individual.。
Yet Paul seeks to embody a servant leader model that he learns from the Lord Jesus.。
While in my previous church in Singapore, the parking lot is about seven minutes from。
the church premise.。
And in order to pamper the congregants, show that they do not have to walk under the hot。
sun, we actually arranged for a pickup van for them.。
While the interesting thing is the drive itself takes five minutes.。
Anyway, I volunteer to be one of the driver, and it is through such serving that you know。
sometimes there are many things that was done in this church, in that church, that was not。
appreciated.。
Anyway, we, the volunteers do double up as traffic marshals, and as we directed the traffic。
in a double-parked, fully-packed car park, we received scolding, left and right, from。
none other than the congregants.。
But that's where we learn humility, while we served in low positions.。
Paul sets yet another example.。
He obeyed, he obeyed despite his sufferings.。
While there seems to be two conflicting work of the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit compelled。
Paul to travel to Jerusalem.。
Yet at the same time, he gave much warnings about his possible sufferings.。
But Paul's commitment to Christ helps him reconcile the seeming contradiction.。
Even if such faithfulness involves suffering and imprisonment, he's willing to obey.。
Compelled by the Spirit, I'm going to Jerusalem.。
Paul uses the image of being chained, tied up like a prisoner, in this instance, by the。
Holy Spirit.。
This same word, compelled, is also translated as bound.。
It's used to describe Paul's binding in chains when he subsequently was indeed taken into。
custody by the Romans in Jerusalem.。
The metaphor underlines Paul's conviction that indeed this is a divine imperative, bound。
by the Spirit.。
Yet we also record how Paul reflected on his ministry.。
Despite his being bind in chains, he was actually able to advise the gospel all the way to the。
royal court in Rome.。
And this gospel continues to spread despite his imprisonment.。
As for Paul, in every city, the Holy Spirit warns him.。
Even after his farewell in Ephesus, along the way to Jerusalem, people in Tyre warned。
of the same fate awaiting him.。
The Judean prophet Agabus also warned Paul that he will be bound and arrested as he travels。
to Jerusalem.。
But he considered his life worth nothing.。
His only aim is to finish the race and complete the task that Lord Jesus Christ has given。
him, the task of testifying to the good news of God's grace.。
Paul remained bound to Christ.。
What does binding mean for us?。
So some years back, I signed up for a venture skydiving in New Zealand.。
After a really sleepless night, I checked into the venue, and by the time we were bound,。
strapped in tandem to the instructor, and the plane began to ascend, there's no chance。
to check him out.。
But indeed, throughout the ascent, I frantically checked that I'm really tightly bound to my。
instructor.。
But then there's some whisper between the instructors, "Oh, we made a mistake."。
"Wow, what mistake?"。
"Well, we find out that we signed up for 12,000 feet jump off.。
But they mixed it up.。
Now we are to jump off 15,000 feet."。
"Well, it's a bonus.。
It's a free upgrade."。
"Well, the thing is, while it may not have too much difference, well, the real difference。
is the time of the free fall.。
You free fall longer before the parachute opens up around 3,000 feet.。
But there would not be any difference as long as the parachute opens up and you are tightly。
bound."。
Well, this is a leap of faith, and I'm eternally grateful that I was indeed tightly bound really。
well.。
Well, the thing is, are we tightly bound to Christ?。
Sometimes in our different seasons in life, we almost felt that we were free fall.。
We just dropped.。
We just fall.。
But there we are.。
Are we bound tightly to Jesus?。
Do you take courage from your relationship with Him that in these challenging times,。
you can fully entrust in Him?。
Sometimes fear comes into our lives, especially when we fail to be bound tightly to Christ.。
But if any one of us is feeling that sense of fear, check to see how your relationship。
with Jesus is.。
He will catch you always, even as you fall, but stay bound to Him.。
Paul exclaims, "What then is my reward?。
Just this, that in preaching the gospel, I may offer it free.。
I do this, all of this, for the sake of the gospel, that I may share in its blessings."。
In other words, Paul is telling us the cause of the gospel is so great that any price is。
worth paying in order to advance it.。
Are we willing to pay that price?。
Indeed, Paul issued a warning and a charge for his elders.。
He's fully aware that after his departure, things could go very wrong in Ephesus Church.。
So most importantly, the elders are to watch out for themselves.。
And of course, they must also watch over and shepherd the flock.。
The concept of a flock of sheep as an image of the community of God's people is well-rooted。
in the Old Testament.。
In the book of Ezekiel, the shepherds have been so concerned about feeding themselves。
that their sheep went astray.。
They were not well-fed.。
They have roamed the hillsides to unprotected areas and have become prey for the wild animals.。
And that's where, in this very dreadful situation, God himself took up to become the shepherd。
for his sheep.。
That beautiful role of being the shepherd, the pastor of his people is beautifully expressed。
in Psalm 23.。
Now fast forward to New Testament.。
Of course, we know that Jesus becomes our good shepherd.。
Then Peter, as a representative of all Christian leaders, is three times entrusted by Jesus,。
"Take care of my sheep.。
Take care of my sheep.。
Take care of my sheep."。
And now here, Paul reminded the leaders must shepherd the flock.。
So Paul himself is working as a tent maker in Ephesus.。
Well, this allowed him to live amongst the people in the city where many just travel。
in and travel out.。
Literally, he come across people from all walks of life from throughout the Roman Empire.。
And often people come to him or his shop to receive his service and ministry.。
In his workplace, he probably reached out to more people than he managed in the synagogue。
and the hall where he preached.。
Paul set out the example of living amongst people.。
We may say that, well, he's a double agent.。
He works to support himself in the ministry during the day and he pastor whenever in between.。
But for us, we can all likewise follow his example.。
Yes, we do have a daytime job, but we can be the double agents.。
Indeed, we should embrace our shepherd role.。
God has entrusted someone under our care, someone for us to look out for.。
Well, of course, the challenge for modern day believers is real, very real.。
We are so used to forfeiting our pastoral roles to the pastors.。
True, not all of us are pastors or elders or leaders by title, but we are all endowed。
with that responsibility, that noble task to look out for others.。
The very one sitting just right next to you, that very role of a shepherd to look out to。
pastor his flock.。
Now your flock could be your staff while you're a boss, while you're a middle management,。
a team leader, a teacher, a manager.。
Your flock could be your household.。
Come on, husbands, look after your household.。
Shepherd your flock, your spouse, your children.。
Your flock could also be your small group members, your ministry co-leaders.。
Wherever God places us, we are duty bound to watch out for each other.。
I'm tremendously blessed as the nature of my work allow me to reach out to people from。
all different countries who come and visit me.。
Not long ago, I had that privilege to pray for a couple who came from a real far away。
country that I never had a chance to travel to.。
But I'm more blessed than they are, even as they go through some of those toughest moments。
in life, but I can journey on with them.。
I have fond memories of another lady under my care in my clinical practice and her lovely。
children.。
We became good friends as she had a very prolonged stay in the hospital.。
Then we, including my wife and the small group, were able to reach out to her, to befriend。
her, to invite her to celebrate her birthday outside of the hospital, and to share Jesus。
with her.。
And we were also privileged to stand alongside her family when we bid her final farewell。
during her funeral.。
We teared, and yet we are comforted.。
On quite a few subsequent Chinese New Years, her children would continue to call us and。
send us their greetings.。
I'm confident that by now they have grown up to become young men, young women of stature,。
because ultimately it is Christ who watch over them.。
But we have that honor to partner with Christ to watch over them.。
While many of you in the audience is aware that I'm serving as an elder in this church,。
what a noble task and yet awesome responsibility.。
Yet you may wonder what elders really do in this church.。
Well very briefly, we are elected by the congregation for a three-year term.。
We can be re-elected for another term, a total, a max of six years, with occasional exceptions.。
So we're here to help shoulder the spiritual leadership of the church.。
We are to discern and advise on critical matters, both spiritual and strategic.。
Example the church plant.。
We carry the responsibility of corporate governance, including financial well-being of the church,。
as well as legal responsibilities in the secular sphere.。
But most of all, we also are there to watch out for the congregation.。
Over the past six years, we have witnessed some of the most phenomenal growth of this。
church.。
Then of course, we also see the challenge of the social movements and the seemingly。
never-ending COVID-19.。
But you can be best assured, and you have probably experienced, how the pastoral team。
has stayed committed to watch out for you.。
Now fellow elders and I are rightfully not in the forefront of ministry, but we share。
that burden of spiritual overseeing to look out for the flock.。
Personally, I do often find pause, charge, and warning too much to bear.。
How are we able to shepherd the flock when sometimes we don't even know our flock?。
There was a real challenge when our church grew so fast a few years ago.。
Now we have another challenge when we have so much dynamic movements in and out of the。
flock.。
We hardly recognize your faces behind the masks.。
But I find my comfort and reassurance that it may not be most important that we know。
you in person or vice versa.。
It is only important that you are known by our chief shepherd, Lord Jesus Christ, and。
that you continue to hear His voice.。
But for as long as you are part of this faith community, our commitment remains that we。
shall watch over you.。
Apostle Peter likewise encouraged all of us, "Tend the flock, not as compelled to do, but。
willingly, not for gain, but eagerly be examples."。
Some 14 years ago, we relocated back to Hong Kong, and someone looked out for us here in。
this church.。
Now church, think of yourself as a pastor, a shepherd.。
Each and every one of us can look out for someone in our midst, in our own sphere of。
influence.。
Paul concludes his speech by once more presenting the challenge of his own life as an example。
for the others to follow.。
While he was with them, he showed sincere commitment.。
He did not convert what others had.。
Rather, he worked hard with his own hands to provide for the needs of his team.。
And in the process of earning money, he also helped those who are in need.。
We must help the weak.。
Diversity with money, with food, with material possessions is indeed a hallmark of the early。
church.。
And it is a virtue that Paul empowers his congregation to practice.。
Remembering the words the Lord Jesus Christ said, "It is more blessed to give than to。
receive," we must understand there is this principle of reciprocity, which is deeply。
ingrained in the Greek culture.。
That is, one must give in equal measure to what one has received.。
Paul's exhortation strikes out this idea.。
Instead, he encouraged believers to give to those who cannot give in return.。
In the book of Acts, in fact, Luke describes how in the church there was no needy person,。
which itself looks back to the law of Moses, which commanded that the confident community,。
there should be no persons in need.。
Herein, Paul encouraged his communities to look out for the poor in their midst.。
The church now should think of herself as the vanguard of a renewed Israel community,。
an ideal community where no one was to be left to cope alone.。
And even as he was persecuted by his own people, Paul cared for those in need, including those。
in Judea, to support them during the famine.。
Ultimately, our giving of money, of our life, and of ourselves should be a reflection of。
what we learned from our Lord Jesus Christ as he gave of himself.。
You're familiar with the generosity of our master, Jesus Christ.。
Rich as he was, he gave it all away for us.。
In one stroke, he became poor and we became rich.。
So a quick summary of what a Christian expression should be like.。
There should be binding to the Holy Spirit.。
We are to serve, to watch out for others, and we are to give.。
As we bind ourselves to Christ, we experience his love to serve others with great love,。
being generous in the giving of ourselves.。
And sometimes when our love bank got depleted, our binding to Christ filled us up once again,。
so the cycle can continue.。
Now while there's much encouragement from Paul, after all, a farewell is a farewell.。
It is in fact heartbreaking to have Paul bring this up again in his farewell speech, that。
they would never see his face again.。
Now even in modern days, we face that kind of dilemma when we think of legacy that we。
may leave behind.。
And we are one day no longer in this land of living.。
On that note, we really need to know two things.。
That all our stuff is not ours.。
And number two, in all our stuff, it's not us.。
We are not defined by what we have.。
Life indeed is not defined by what we have, even when we have a lot.。
I recall the very first time that I had the privilege to sit down with Pastor Andrew for。
lunch, that was some six or seven years ago.。
I guess he was interviewing me to see whether I'm fit to be considered to become an elder。
in the vine.。
So I came up with this model answer.。
I came to a season of my life that I realized is much more important for me to give than。
to receive.。
Well it is not a matter of whether I had enough materially at that time.。
It is just a realization that I'm left with so little chances and time to give of myself.。
In fact my favorite story that I shared with one of my very rich patients was a parable。
of the rich man who built yet another vine to store even more.。
While he was to go through a minor surgery under light anesthesia, but he went into a。
somewhat confused state.。
He was so scared, so fearful as if he was running for his life.。
So after the incident, it opened up an opportunity whereby I can reach out to him to care for。
him, and to introduce this story of the real rich man.。
But God said to him, "You fool, this very night your life will be demanded from you.。
Then you will get what you have prepared for yourself.。
This is how it will be for whoever stores up things for themselves, but is not rich。
towards God."。
I do want to share something more about Farewell before we finish for the day.。
Over 35 years of clinical practice, I had encountered more deaths than probably most。
of you in the audience.。
I find that some departed well prepared, but many others did not.。
However, when it became evidence to me that I myself am facing a finite future for myself。
upon diagnosis of blood cancer, I decided to do a good farewell, a joyous one.。
I invited different people because I wanted to thank the many people who have poured into。
my life.。
I wanted to appreciate all those who journeyed with us through thick and thin.。
I want to encourage all our spiritual sons and daughters that we have shared our life.。
With that, they may carry on with steadfast trust in God regardless.。
And I wanted to share my faith with friends and beloved ones whom have as yet to know。
Jesus.。
So, in no other places than this auditorium right here, we hosted our anniversary banquet.。
A good excuse whereby we are to share our 21st wedding anniversary and we are also there。
to celebrate life.。
But deep in me, there was this sense of farewell and hopefully it is said well ahead of time.。
Our anniversary wish was that we might be able to celebrate yet another 25 years of。
marriage.。
But we had indeed celebrated our 30th anniversary not long ago.。
And we are still eagerly looking forward to spending time together.。
Living is about giving.。
And my desire is that I may continue to give and to give of myself.。
In Paul's word, he's pouring his life like a drink offering.。
Indeed, I'm already poured out like a drink offering.。
Now, church tradition was such that Paul was released after his arrest in Jerusalem and。
imprisonment in Rome.。
He was able to revisit many of his churches and his friends upon the release.。
So somehow, a final farewell might not be final.。
But that would be God's extra grace and as recipients of his grace, we just need to be。
reminded once again, to give is more blessed than to receive.。
And living is about giving.。
I want to invite all of us to stand.。
I've shared this message to encourage all of us to look out for someone else.。
There must be someone that you can look out for, that you can shepherd.。
So I want to invite all of us to look out for someone standing next to you.。
To pray with him for whatever challenges, for whatever free fall that he's experiencing,。
but you are there to look out for him.。
And likewise, he will pray for you.。
It's important time that we practice serving and loving by praying with each other.。
So pair up with someone that you don't quite know and pray with him, with her, that God。
will continue to watch over, that he or she will be binded by the Holy Spirit, will be。
binded to Christ, that they will be able to serve and to love others.。
Take your time, pray with each other, commit to each other.。
