Jesus, in your name we pray, amen.。
- Amen.。
Aw, so sweet.。
Thanks, Justin.。
Yeah, it's really, really good to be here.。
Definitely feels like I've, kind of a homecoming,。
coming back to my second family.。
I pretty much grew up in the vine,。
and even before I knew Justin, I knew Andrew,。
back when he was much cooler then.。
He had long hair, ponytail, it's true,。
and he was a punk rock, death metal guy.。
You've come a long way, Andrew.。
Yeah, there is a God, there is a God.。
(laughing)。
Yeah, so it's really good, really good to be here.。
And speaking of family, this being a second home。
and a family, I wanna introduce you very quickly。
to the youngest member of my family.。
So, married with seven children,。
and this is our youngest right here.。
Her name is Lily.。
Everyone say aw, yeah, so sweet.。
Now, of course, you don't have to be a professional parent。
to know that you're not allowed to have favorites, right?。
No favorites, okay?。
But I must say, she is the cutest one.。
All right, that's an objective thing, all right?。
It's a fact.。
She is the cutest, and she knows it, all right?。
Even her siblings, we all agree that she's the cutest, okay?。
But it's not just 'cause she's the little one,。
you know, she's cute.。
There's something else about her。
that I really, really appreciate and value,。
and that is just the fact that she's so vibrant。
and free and joyful.。
It seems like it just kind of emanates from her, right?。
And it's not something that is, you know,。
not something that is taught.。
It's something that she just carries。
from the day she was born.。
And I think all of our kids, when they were young,。
it seemed like that was something that they all walked in.。
This kind of freedom and joy。
that I think is actually very infectious.。
It's something that I deeply envy,。
and something I think that we just need more of。
in this very serious city, Hong Kong, all right?。
Does anyone think sometimes we're a bit too serious here。
in the city?。
Yeah, a bit too serious.。
So it's that childlikeness is so beautiful.。
And sometimes I ask the Lord, you know,。
how come, why, where does this freedom。
and this joy come from?。
And again, I just wanna give a disclaimer.。
I am not a professional child development expert.。
I don't have a PhD in this, okay?。
But as I've studied scripture and science,。
it's very clear that one of the main reasons。
is because Lily is just so well-loved.。
She's protected and she's championed,。
not just by her biological family,。
so me and my wife and the siblings,。
but by a whole village of people.。
So you can see here, this is literally。
a part of our village, part of our church,。
a group of them, a bunch of them,。
actually we live in the same building,。
in the same apartment building,。
doing life and church and family and mission together.。
And so it's pretty cool because I kinda feel like,。
the Lord reminded me of Matthew 3:17.。
When Jesus was baptized, you remember this?。
The heavens opened and the light shined down on him.。
♪ Oh ♪。
And then he heard the voice of God say,。
this is my son whom I love, with him I am well-pleased.。
And the Lord was just showing me that through the village,。
it's as if every day, she's hearing。
through a chorus of voices, young and old,。
different people, men and women,。
just reaffirming, reaffirming again and again。
her true identity, that she is a beloved daughter of God,。
and that with her, we are well-pleased.。
Now, through my work at Mother's Choice,。
I have met other kids in Hong Kong。
who have a very different experience.。
And so just very quickly, I wanna tell you two stories。
of something I've personally experienced,。
children who've had a very different growing up than Lily.。
And so the first one is a little boy, a little baby boy.。
When he first came to our home,。
so my wife and I, we volunteer as Safe Family Volunteers,。
where we help take care of little babies,。
provide baby care for single moms。
so that they can get some me time.。
And so when this baby first started coming to our home,。
he was only not even one years old yet.。
And when he first came in, the first thing we noticed。
was just how small he was.。
He was tiny for a one-year-old.。
And then we noticed that his clothes,。
they were stained and dirty,。
and he actually smelled like smoke.。
And we noticed that he had horrible eczema,。
and it hadn't been treated well.。
So many of his joints, they had been just scratched。
to the point of bleeding.。
And so he was actually bleeding in several places。
when he first showed up in our home.。
We also noticed that just the smallest noise,。
and you can imagine our home, seven kids,。
there's a lot of noise.。
It's a bit of a zoo.。
I see my full-time job, not with Mother's Choice。
or anything like that.。
I think I'm a zookeeper, really.。
It's a beautiful, it's a chaos,。
but it's a beautiful chaos.。
And so you can imagine this noise,。
and this baby would just, for the smallest noise,。
would just burst out crying and just out of control。
and just fearful, and it just didn't seem normal.。
But what was most heartbreaking。
is that we noticed very quickly that this baby boy,。
he was gripping his thumb, his left thumb,。
very, very tightly.。
And when we tried to pull his thumb out,。
he couldn't use it.。
It was limp.。
And so we, of course, told the social worker,。
and then the social worker got it checked up。
with a therapist, and we found out that the problem,。
the reason it was like this is because this baby boy。
was stressed and had anxiety, was fearful.。
And I think when we look at Hong Kong,。
yes, we're aware of many young people in this city。
who struggle with depression, mental health issues,。
but I never once imagined that a one-year-old,。
not even a one-year-old baby,。
would already be struggling with anxiety。
and stress and fear.。
And so that was something that was very heartbreaking。
for my wife and I.。
Another couple, a friend, a couple that we know personally,。
they were a foster family through Mother's Choice,。
and they also shared about this other little boy。
who came to their home when he was only。
a year and a half old.。
And they quickly noticed that in between meals,。
he would be rummaging through the trash can, the garbage,。
looking for food, and they just wondered。
what could have happened to this boy。
that would cause him at not even two years old。
to be worried, fearful, thinking about。
where his next meal would come from.。
They also discovered that he would hide,。
put away bits of his meal, breakfast, lunch, or dinner,。
in different places in the home to hide it, to hoard it.。
Again, somehow this little boy,。
whatever he had experienced, whatever trauma he experienced。
had caused him to feel like he had to take care of himself,。
that no one would take care of him,。
and that he had to look out for his own well-being.。
Again, that is not the way it's supposed to be.。
That's not God's heart, that's not God's design.。
Something is wrong.。
Now, there are many, many more vulnerable, abused,。
and abandoned children in Hong Kong.。
There are a lot of stats,。
and I don't have time to go through all of them,。
but I want to highlight quickly.。
There are over 4,000 children in Hong Kong。
who have spent at least five years。
of their most formative years,。
oftentimes from zero, from birth, till five,。
they've spent at least five years in institutional care.。
That means outside of a safe, loving, and permanent family.。
And as I said, both science and scripture。
tell us that that does not set up a child for success.。
That does not set them up to thrive,。
at most, only to survive.。
There are another 600 to 700 kids right now,。
between the age of zero and one,。
who have never left their hospital crib.。
They were born, and they were just left in the hospital crib。
with no family or home to go to,。
nowhere safe for them to call home.。
Sometimes, these statistics, they're just numbers,。
and I try to put myself actually into one of these child's shoes。
to actually feel or think about。
what they are feeling and thinking.。
I'm sure that they are thinking and feeling。
and asking themselves, "Where is my mom?。
"Where is my dad?。
"How come no one wants me?。
"Why are there all these other children with families?。
"But I don't have a family.。
"Is it because I'm too ugly?。
"Is it because I'm not well-behaved enough?。
"Is it because I'm not smart enough, not pretty enough?。
"What did I do wrong?"。
And over time, they must begin to think some horrible lies,。
like, "I must be a mistake.。
"I don't deserve to be loved.。
"I'm just a piece of trash.。
"I don't deserve to be loved.。
"I'm just a piece of trash.。
"I don't deserve to live."。
These are all horrible lies and attacks of the enemy。
to steal, kill, and destroy families and our next generation.。
This is not something new.。
He's been doing this since the very beginning.。
Since the Garden of Eden,。
the enemy has been trying to tear down, break down,。
rip apart families and the next generation.。
Are we aware?。
How would you feel about this?。
Again, bring it a little closer to home.。
What if, and I know this is sensitive,。
but what if someone walked into your home this afternoon。
and attacked your kids or your siblings?。
How would you feel about that?。
Or what if someone just walked into the Sunday school here。
at the Vine Church and began to scream abuse。
at the Vine kids?。
How would you feel about that?。
Would you stand by and do nothing?。
Would you allow that to happen?。
Or would you take action?。
Now, even more importantly than what these children feel。
and what you and I may feel about this。
is how does our heavenly Father feel about this?。
We know from Psalms 139。
that our heavenly Father, He sees and knows every child。
and that He, with His own two hands,。
lovingly formed every child。
while they were still in their mother's womb.。
He is their true Father.。
And because He made them and formed them,。
He gave them life, He also gave them a name.。
He knows their name.。
To us, they're just statistics and numbers and a case,。
but He sees every single one of them.。
Even as they are unborn, none of them are invisible to Him.。
He knows their name.。
He gave them a name.。
He gave them life.。
And He also has a future for them,。
a beautiful future for them, I believe.。
And that is why every time I think,。
how does the Father feel about this?。
I can't imagine just how broken His heart is.。
I can't imagine how much His heart is burning with anger。
that anyone would dare to even touch or hurt or mistreat。
one of His precious little ones, these innocent little ones.。
And this is why we see in Scripture some verses,。
I'll show you some verses that are pretty intense,。
but I just want you to know。
just how strongly our heavenly Father feels。
about this issue.。
So Exodus 22, verses 22 to 24,。
God is saying to Moses,。
"You must not exploit a widow or an orphan.。
"If you exploit them in any way and they cry out to Me,。
"then I will certainly hear their cry.。
"My anger will blaze against you。
"and I will kill you with a sword.。
"Then your wives will be widows。
"and your children fatherless."。
That's pretty intense.。
Yes, we can all acknowledge that, right?。
It's pretty intense, okay?。
In Isaiah 1, verses 15 to 17,。
here through the prophet Isaiah,。
again, God is speaking to His people, okay?。
And He says to them,。
"When you lift up your hands in prayer, I will not look.。
"Though you offer many prayers, I will not listen,。
"for your hands are covered。
"with the blood of innocent victims.。
"Wash yourselves and be clean.。
"Get your sins out of My sight.。
"Give up your evil ways."。
Okay, and then He goes on to say,。
"This is how," in verse 17,。
"This is how you do that," all right?。
"This is how you get yourself in a place。
"where I do want to hear your prayers,。
"where I do want to hear and be with you。
"and all your cries, then that's when it matters to Me,。
"because I know that you are aligned with My heart。
"and not just doing what is good for you。
"and coming to a church gathering, for example,。
"just to get what you need,。
"but do you know what I care about?"。
This is what God is saying here.。
It's tough to hear.。
It's really tough to hear,。
and I'm challenged all the time by this.。
But the Lord says to them,。
"When you are ready to care about what I care about,。
"this is what I want you to do.。
"Learn to do good.。
"Seek justice.。
"Help the oppressed.。
"Defend the cause of orphans。
"and fight for the rights of widows."。
You see, church, before the Lord,。
it's not enough that we just ask Him,。
"How can we avoid evil?"。
Right, "How can we avoid evil?。
"How can we resist evil?"。
God is asking us to go further than that,。
to ask a different question,。
which is, "How can we do good?。
"How can we do good?"。
There's a famous quote that says,。
"The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil。
"is for good men to do nothing."。
Now, I know for some of you, you might be thinking,。
"Jason, this is very Old Testament-y,。
"kind of wrath of God type of stuff you're saying.。
"You know, we're living now in the New Testament, right?。
"This is an age of grace.。
"You know, we were singing about songs just now。
"that made us feel really warm inside,。
"and, you know, I don't know if this is really,。
"you know, speaking to me."。
And so, just to make sure that we're all clear,。
this is the same God in the Old and in the New Testament.。
And in fact, in the New Testament,。
God is even more clear and direct.。
Okay, He says, through the Apostle James,。
"Pure and genuine religion in the sight of God the Father。
"means caring for orphans and widows in their distress。
"and refusing to let the world corrupt you."。
Don't you love it when God gives us a formula?。
All right, it's black and white.。
It's really clear.。
It's really easy.。
Unfortunately, we know that the most simple,。
direct things sometimes in Scripture。
are the hardest things to do.。
All right, so I'm not pointing a finger at anyone.。
All right, this is something, again,。
that I am constantly challenging myself,。
our community, our family.。
Do we feel what He feels?。
Do we care about what He cares about?。
Is our faith, our Christianity, our walk with God,。
is it pure and genuine in His eyes?。
Now, thank heavens that our God,。
He is in the business of making all things right。
and all things new.。
He is the God of redemption.。
So what that mean, amen?。
Amen, so that means that He is not just there。
wringing His hands in stress and heartbroken and teary-eyed.。
Oh, He's angry but powerless.。
No, our God, He has a plan,。
a glorious plan for redemption。
to redeem and restore and transform the orphan,。
the widow, the refugee, the vulnerable.。
And that is exciting.。
But do we know what His plan is?。
Is His plan to, you know, we need more,。
to have more institutional care。
or to train up more social workers?。
Or is it to start up more NGOs like Mother's Choice?。
Now, don't get me wrong.。
You know, I get, you know,。
Mother's Choice pays my bills, right?。
So it's obviously clear that all of these things,。
these parties I mentioned,。
they all are important and have a valuable role to play。
in the care of orphans and widows.。
But it's not God's design.。
God's design is very clear that the primary instrument。
for redemption and transformation are not those things.。
It's something else.。
And so I just wanna very quickly go through a story。
in scripture that tells us what God's plan is,。
His primary instrument for redemption for the fatherless.。
Now, I don't have time to go through the whole story today.。
You can go read it on your own.。
It's very readable.。
It's very short, 2 Samuel 9.。
And basically what happens is King David,。
he has established his throne.。
He has defeated all his enemies.。
And so as he's comfortably sitting there,。
he's thinking, what about, what happened to Jonathan?。
What happened to his family, right?。
His best friend, Jonathan, which was Saul's son, right?。
His arch enemy, Saul, right?。
Who he defeated, okay, to take over the kingdom, right?。
And he finds out that there is a crippled orphan。
named Mephibosheth, who is the grandson of King Saul.。
So his enemy's grandson.。
And out of God's kindness, it says in the scripture,。
out of God's kindness, he welcomes him.。
He calls him to come to the palace.。
And you can imagine Mephibosheth is very scared,。
shaking in his boots because he doesn't know。
why he's being called.。
Is it because they wanna kill him。
so that bloodline is finished, right?。
Very Game of Thrones, K-drama-ish type stuff going on here.。
All right?。
So he comes in and he's scared.。
And he says, why have you called me, oh, great one, David?。
I am just a dead dog.。
And then David says to him,。
so now I'm jumping to verse nine, okay?。
The king then summons a servant named Ziba, okay?。
And says, I have given your master's grandson,。
that's Mephibosheth, everything that belonged to Saul。
and his family.。
Wow, that's a lot, okay?。
A king's inheritance.。
He's giving that back to Mephibosheth.。
You and your sons and servants, Ziba,。
are now to farm the land for him。
and produce food for your master's household.。
All right, so providing sustenance, right?。
Food, sustenance, provision,。
giving him a place to stay, amazing, okay?。
But on top of that, right?。
It goes further down.。
And so Ziba says, yes, Lord, I'll do all that.。
And then the last line there.。
And from that time on, Mephibosheth ate regularly。
at David's table like one of the king's own sons.。
This is the part I wanna make sure we get.。
Yes, David gave him a place to live, gave him food to eat.。
And that came at a high cost to him。
'cause he gave a king's inheritance back to Mephibosheth.。
But that wasn't what was most significant.。
What was most significant。
is that David then welcomed him.。
Mephibosheth, this crippled orphan。
that was his enemy's grandson into his own family,。
to his own table and treated him like his very own son.。
Wow, you can imagine the risk。
that he was taking in doing this, right?。
It's just crazy that he would do something like this.。
But we see that by rooting Mephibosheth。
in this safe, loving family, in his own home.。
A few years later in 2 Samuel 19,。
again, I don't have time to go into it now,。
but please do some homework, look it up.。
It's the epilogue, all right, of Mephibosheth.。
It's amazing.。
Years later, when Ziba, this Ziba guy,。
he'd actually turned out to be a bad guy,。
he tried to scam and cheat Mephibosheth out of all his wealth.。
I'm just summarizing here.。
But Mephibosheth basically says,。
"You know what?。
"Those things don't matter to me.。
"I don't need money or wealth or the kingdom.。
"All that matters is my relationship with you,。
"my father, David."。
Amazing.。
Through this loving family, this home that David provided,。
Mephibosheth was redeemed from being a dead dog.。
He called himself a dead dog, less than human.。
From being a dead dog, he was redeemed into a true son.。
His royal identity was restored.。
And so we see that God's plan is to restore broken family。
through his family, not just biological family,。
but through the family of God.。
And this is who he is.。
It's not just what he does, it is who he is,。
because he is the father to the fatherless.。
He is the defender of widows.。
He puts the lonely in families.。
This is who our God is.。
And something I wanna highlight that I think is so cool。
is that who wrote this passage?。
Who wrote this Psalm?。
It was David.。
It was actually David who wrote this Psalm.。
And we know the scriptures tell us in Acts 13。
that David was a man after God's own heart.。
And what were some of the things that made him a man。
after God's own heart?。
Well, he often did things that were crazy。
or shameful even, right?。
He danced in his underwear in front of the whole nation.。
All right, he spared his enemy Saul。
when he should have killed him.。
Everyone thought he should have killed him.。
God's given you your enemy.。
Take it, take the kingdom.。
No, he did things that were shameful and foolish。
in the eyes of man, but were pleasing in God's eyes.。
And I believe that when he took in Mephibosheth,。
his enemy's grandson, this orphan, this crippled orphan,。
that was less than a dead dog,。
and brought him into his own home。
and treated him like his very own son,。
it was one of those things that God ticked and said,。
"This is a man after my own heart."。
And so, I don't know about you, like David,。
I hope that I can be someone who can also make room。
at my table for the fatherless,。
and at your tables, at our tables,。
not primarily for their sake,。
but first and foremost, for his sake,。
that we may all strive to become men and women。
after God's own heart.。
Guys, this is not about doing social work.。
This is not about just responding to,。
"Oh, kids, poor kids, oh, sad story."。
It's first and foremost about responding to his heart。
because we love him and we wanna become more like him.。
We wanna know his heartbeat.。
We wanna feel what he feels,。
and we wanna comfort his heart and bring joy to his heart.。
That's who we are forever.。
We are missionaries.。
Oh, sorry, we are worshipers forever.。
We are worshipers forever,。
and this is our worship unto him.。
So the story of Mephibosheth,。
I've said it so many times, I've gotten a bit,。
M, Mephibosheth, M, all right?。
The story of M, it's great, but it can be easy.。
I'm just giving myself a break here.。
It can be easy to treat it as a little bit of a fairy tale,。
right, you know, Old Testament children's stories, right?。
It's a bit of a fairy tale,。
just like David killing Goliath, you know?。
Doesn't seem so relevant to us here in Hong Kong today,。
right, it can feel like so far, far away.。
It just doesn't seem like something that applies。
to our lifestyles here in Hong Kong,。
and so I wanted to share one more story。
that I hope will be closer to home,。
and you know, it's a Hong Kong story,。
and so hopefully you will find it more relevant.。
And so this story starts in the late 1940s, I think 1949,。
and you see here this boy, he was born to his mother there,。
but there's no father in the picture。
because the father left.。
His father left when he was born,。
and he never met his father until he was 18,。
and so you can imagine what it was like for his mother.。
His mother was angry, heartbroken.。
She did not want to even see this child,。
just being with this child reminded her of her own rejection,。
how she was abandoned,。
in a sense her own shame and her own failure,。
and so shortly at around the age of four or five years old,。
she decided she just couldn't handle it anymore,。
and so she sent off this boy, her son,。
to boarding school in Hong Kong at the age of five.。
You can imagine, boarding school is a tough place。
already on its own, but even more so。
if you don't have a family,。
you don't have a father and mother,。
people to protect you, care for you,。
look out for you, encourage you,。
and so this young boy, he quickly became a very angry boy.。
He got into fights all the times,。
he got into arguments, not just with fights and arguments。
with other students, but with the teachers as well,。
and he got into so much trouble,。
and that he actually got kicked out of school,。
not just once, but twice,。
and then each time the school would let him back in。
because they felt sorry for him,。
no, poor kid, so they let him back in,。
but just there was too much, I think, anger,。
trauma, bitterness in this boy's heart,。
and so he couldn't help himself.。
Again, he got into more trouble,。
and so finally they kicked him out of school。
for the third time, they just couldn't deal with him anymore。
and so he had nowhere to go, his mom didn't want him,。
so he actually got a room, a dorm room,。
at the YMCA in TST next to the peninsula,。
so clarify, not the peninsula, but next to the peninsula,。
okay, a little dorm room there,。
and while he was there, he met a couple,。
a New Zealand missionary couple。
that were actually working at the YMCA at the time。
as the general secretary,。
and so they actually lived in the YMCA as well,。
and so they got to know this little boy,。
by this time he was a preteen, around 12, 13,。
they got to know him, they got to hear his story,。
and they began to see into his soul,。
and they began to realize just how much darkness was there,。
how much anger and trauma and rage。
and bitterness and sadness.。
Clearly he had asked all those questions,。
where's my dad, where's my mom, why don't they want me?。
What's wrong with me?。
They saw all that in him,。
and they saw that he was on a very dark and dangerous road,。
they had no idea where he would end up,。
they were worried about him, his future,。
and so they decided to take him in,。
and to give him a home, to make room at their table。
for this young man.。
They started to teach him English,。
they started to bring him to Sunday school,。
at Calhoun Union Church, every Sunday,。
brought him to Sunday school,。
he would hear the Sunday school stories,。
a lot of seeds were sown,。
but they did something else that was very genius,。
they gave him a job at the YMCA, in the hotel,。
as a bellboy, so he would be moving luggage。
and pushing moving boxes around and things all day,。
so at the end of the day,。
he had no energy left to get into fights.。
Parenting, this is one of those parenting hacks,。
now, you may have to adapt it a bit,。
because I don't think it really,。
with child protection these days,。
it might not be legal to do that with your kid,。
but the point was that it worked,。
and obviously the most important thing is that。
they made room for him, in their heart, in their home,。
and they treated him like their very own son,。
and so very shortly after that,。
things started to change for him,。
he got into LaSalle College,。
you guys have heard of LaSalle?。
It's one of the top boys schools, I said one of,。
'cause I don't know, there might be some DBS boys here,。
and I don't want you to leave the room in a huff,。
don't be offended, I said one of,。
so this boy, he got into LaSalle,。
and not just that, when he graduated,。
he was head boy, prefect,。
after that, he got into Hong Kong U Law School,。
and graduated the first law class,。
law school class of Hong Kong U,。
and all his peers who graduated with him。
went on to be chief justices,。
and start their own law firms in Hong Kong,。
he graduated with honors,。
and then he got into Stanford Law School,。
and graduated with honors from there as well,。
and then began an illustrious career。
as a corporate lawyer in Hong Kong,。
and he went on to become one of the youngest partners。
in one of the most esteemed law firms,。
more than that, more importantly,。
he became a Christian,。
and he decided that he wanted to use his legal expertise,。
his gifts, his training,。
to begin to serve and to build the kingdom,。
and so he came alongside as an advisor,。
a legal advisor on the board,。
and many other things,。
a consultant for so many different churches,。
and NGOs, and ministries, and missions agencies,。
he did so much work for the kingdom,。
more importantly, he became,。
most importantly, he became a man,。
probably one of the most kind,。
and generous, and sacrificial,。
and upright men in his generation,。
truly servant-hearted unto the Lord,。
and the reason I know that he's a good man。
is because he's my dad.。
(audience applauding)。
The guy in the back, in case you wanted to,。
it's him.。
Now, there's so much more to this story,。
but I just want to highlight a few more things.。
When I was, I think, early teen,。
my dad reconnected with his dad.。
Forgave him, reconciled with him,。
and together with my mom, led his dad to the Lord,。
and baptized his dad before he passed away.。
Isn't that awesome?。
(audience applauding)。
My dad also played an instrumental role。
in helping start Mother's Choice.。
He was the lawyer who helped with the paperwork,。
Section 88, NGO status, all that.。
It's beautiful how God can turn things。
that were broken into, bring them full circle。
into a blessing, not just for him, but for many others,。
and personally, what I'm most blessed by。
is that I think my dad, he passed on to me。
and my family and our community.。
A special grace, a spiritual inheritance,。
a spiritual legacy, that grace to adopt and to foster.。
And so you can see in this picture, you can guess,。
my wife and I, our family, we've been fostering。
two teenage boys, they're brothers, they're orphans,。
as well as asylum seekers, and they've been in our family。
for the last year and a half, Fabrice and Samuel,。
and I've asked them for permission to show this photo.。
And I tell you, that has been such a crazy adventure.。
It's been one of the hardest things we've ever done。
as a family, as a community, but also one of the most。
formative and fulfilling things。
that we've ever been a part of.。
And that's why my family and our community,。
we give thanks all the time that God brought。
Fabrice and Samuel to us.。
And every chance I get, I tell Fabrice and Samuel,。
in the face, in the eyes, I tell them,。
thank you for trusting us.。
Thank you for being a part of our family.。
You, too, are a gift from God.。
You're not a burden, you are a blessing.。
Thank you, thank you.。
And it's just icing on the cake that my wife and I。
got to baptize Fabrice a couple months ago.。
(audience applauding)。
You see Samuel kind of lurking there?。
Being little brother, all right?。
Just kind of lurking there, but it's been beautiful.。
And this is not why we do this.。
But again, like I said, it's not for this, right?。
Again, it's not about the fruit that comes out of it.。
It's about our faithfulness to what God has called us to do.。
And so, as you can see here, just in real time,。
hopefully the Word becoming flesh,。
you can see that through the care and safety and stability。
of a loving family and community,。
God truly can redeem broken stories。
and turn them into beautiful testimonies,。
not just for my father, but for many.。
I believe for all of the children that are fatherless,。
that are vulnerable in this city,。
God has that upon His heart.。
That's what He wants to see happen.。
But He's inviting you and I to take part。
in this story of redemption,。
this beautiful story of redemption.。
And I wanna say, one day, I cannot wait to stand in heaven.。
And I don't know what it's gonna be like exactly,。
but I'm gonna be looking around for Ken and Lois Thornton.。
Grandpa Ken, Grandma Lois, the Thorntons,。
that New Zealand couple.。
And I wanna shake their hand.。
I'm gonna thank them.。
Thank you.。
Thank you for saying yes to my dad.。
Thank you for opening your hearts and your home to my dad.。
Thank you that you took him in,。
in his moment of crisis, in his darkest hour,。
and you were there for him.。
And because of that, today, my dad is in heaven today.。
And that day, we will all be there.。
I'm standing before you today,。
because they said yes to God's heart for the fatherless.。
And I just love that it's not just one man's life。
that was transformed, right?。
God, in his grace and his glory,。
he took what would have been a generational curse。
and turned it into a generational blessing.。
Not just one man's destiny redeemed,。
but a whole clan, a whole tribe,。
all of our destinies redeemed.。
And so again, can we just give God。
a big, big hand for that?。
It's all him.。
It's God's story.。
It's God's story, but we get to be a part of his story.。
So you might be saying, "Jason, okay,。
"I wanna be a part of this story.。
"This is touching, this is moving.。
"I wanna help."。
But to be honest, and we wanna be honest。
'cause we are a family,。
and we need to be honest with one another, right?。
We have to be authentic.。
Jason, this seems a bit too big and overwhelming.。
I don't know, what if I'm not ready to adopt or to foster?。
This just seems like a huge, huge step.。
And you're right.。
Adoption and fostering,。
these things may not be your portion right now or ever.。
I don't know, that's between you and God.。
But what I do know is that our God。
has invited every single one of us。
to have a part to play.。
Every one of us can do something, okay?。
None of us should be trying to do everything.。
None of us can do everything.。
But all of us can do something.。
And this is why I wanna end with this quote。
from Mother Teresa.。
It's a beautiful quote, right?。
"Not all of us can do great things,。
"but all of us can do small things with great love."。
Wow, that challenges me so much,。
but it also gives me great hope.。
It gets me excited。
because that means that I can do something,。
we can do something.。
And to help you get started,。
here are a few next steps,。
a little something for you, right?。
'Cause we all need to ask the Lord,。
what is that little something?。
Okay, so it might be starting to pray。
because this is a huge work.。
There is a huge need.。
There's a lot of spiritual warfare involved, okay?。
And so prayer is the work.。
It doesn't complete the work, it is the work.。
And we love to say that it is not just hard work, right?。
The work of caring for orphans and widows,。
but it's also heart work.。
And so the prayer, constant prayer in His presence,。
crying out to Him,。
that is something that we need to not just do the work,。
complete the work, but also to sustain the work.。
So please begin to pray.。
Secondly is to support.。
You know what, all around us,。
where we live, work, and play,。
where our kids go to school,。
or where you go to school,。
there are adoptive families,。
there are foster families,。
there are families in crisis, right?。
And there's many ways for all of us,。
whether you're married or not married,。
whether you're working or retired, to get involved.。
So for example, even in my own community,。
you saw earlier the picture of our little village,。
a bunch of the singles who are there,。
they help with our kids' homework,。
they help take them to play basketball,。
they help them to,。
tonight they're taking two of the older boys。
to watch the Predator movie.。
I don't know if that's a,。
(laughs)。
yeah, is it okay?。
Okay, all right, yeah, yeah, yeah.。
Okay, so, you know,。
so there's a, everyone's contributing。
in their own little way.。
Everyone's bringing out their five loaves and two fish,。
and somehow there's more than enough.。
Somehow, that's God's economy, all right?。
So there's definitely ways。
that you can begin supporting practically, okay?。
And then the third thing, right?。
Isaiah 117, learn to do good, right?。
So we have set up on Thursday, December 4th,。
in the evening here at the Vine Church here in Wan Chai,。
a info session just for you guys, all right?。
So please do come,。
and there'll be Mother's Choice professionals,。
experts there, our social workers,。
who will explain to you some different programs。
and services and different ways。
that you can start getting involved practically, okay?。
But the bottom line is this.。
We worship and serve a God who sees and loves the vulnerable.。
And He's not afraid to draw near to us in our brokenness.。
He loves us, He protects us,。
and then He invites us and welcomes us into His family.。
And then He invites us to do the same.。
Can I close in prayer, and may I ask that we all stand?。
Heavenly Father, thank You that You are our good,。
good Father.。
Thank You for all the mercy and the grace,。
the unconditional love that You have showered upon us.。
It's a steadfast and loyal love.。
Your mercies never end towards us.。
But You're not just our Father.。
You're also the Father to the fatherless.。
You're a defender of widows,。
and You put the lonely in families.。
This is also who You are.。
And so God, today, would You come by Your Spirit。
and do a new work in every single one of us,。
that we would become more like You?。
Can I invite You to lay hands on your own eyes?。
God, would You open our eyes,。
give us Your eyes to see the vulnerable?。
To see those that society has forgotten,。
the invisible, the marginalized.。
Lord, help us to see them, God, to know them, Lord,。
and to see their pain and their trauma.。
Lord, may they never be invisible to us again.。
And I invite You to put Your hands on Your heart.。
God, would You awaken our hearts this afternoon?。
Lord, forgive us for the times。
that our hearts have been too hard or too numb, God,。
or too small.。
Lord, we repent for that.。
Holy Spirit, would You breathe upon our hearts now?。
Would You stretch our hearts?。
Would You soften our hearts?。
Would You give our hearts, God, something new, Lord God?。
Do something new in our hearts, Lord God,。
that our hearts of stone。
would be turned into hearts of flesh, Lord God.。
This is a work of Your Spirit.。
It requires a miracle.。
It's a sign and a wonder, Lord, but we say yes, God.。
We believe, God, that You can do this again, Lord, in us,。
that we may feel what You feel。
and care about what You care about。
and love the way You love.。
And lastly, can I invite You。
to just hold hands with the people next to You?。
Just grab the hand of the person next to You.。
God, in Jesus' name right now, by Your Spirit,。
would You just fall upon this congregation,。
this community, the Vine Church.。
Lord, would You commission Your family, the family of God,。
would You empower them to rise up as a family of God。
for this city, God, that they would father the fatherless,。
they would defend the widows,。
they would put the lonely in families, God,。
so that many broken stories would be redeemed。
and become beautiful testimonies?。
God, all of this is for Your glory,。
and all of this is for the sake of this city,。
our city, and the next generation.。
Lord, here we are.。
May it be unto us as You say.。
Send us, Lord.。
We say yes once again, God, to You and to Your heart.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
- Amen.。
(congregation applauding)。
(congregation cheering)。
(congregation applauding)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
