Amen. Thank you, Joshua. Can we put hands together for Joshua?。
(Applause)。
Hi.。
Ah, by the way, I really love that song, like, "From the Inside Out."。
Who grew up listening to Hillsong United?。
OK. OK, you guys.。
We're in the same generation.。
Yes. It's nice.。
Uh, this past week,。
uh, Rossini and I, we travelled.。
We were on a little, like, getaway trip。
after four years of being parents.。
OK, yeah.。
So, after four years of being parents,。
we did our first trip, just the two of us on our own.。
We were in Seoul, Korea.。
And unlike any previous trips,。
we almost, like, planned nothing, like, no plans at all.。
I said it's different from previous trips。
because if you know us, if you have heard of any stories,。
if you have ever talked to Rosalind,。
you probably know how well-planned she is.。
Every previous trip we had,。
there would be printed itinerary put in a clear folder,。
and we would, every day, I'd just look up the folder。
and I know where I should be at what time, and, uh, wonderful.。
So, this trip, she saw me, "Oh, you're half-dead,。
so let's do, like, no plans, just be spontaneous."。
So, we almost had no plans,。
except we booked a skiing trip, a one-day skiing trip.。
So, on Wednesday, like, 7-ish a.m.,。
we had to take a shuttle bus from downtown Seoul,。
like, all the way to the snowy mountain,。
and we got there at around 10 a.m., I believe.。
And she was very kind enough,。
she booked me an instructor, a skiing lesson,。
'cause this is my first time skiing, like, ever in my life.。
So, she booked...。
Yeah, that needs a sound effect, right?。
First time, boom!。
First time skiing, I got a ski instructor,。
but the lesson was at 1 p.m., we arrived at 10,。
and we only have, like, one day there,。
and as Asians, Hong Kongers, Singaporeans,。
'cause we are not gonna just sit there and do nothing, right?。
And luckily, for my generation,。
who grew up with Hillstone United, we're millennials,。
and we know the secret of learning everything in life,。
which is on this platform called...?。
- YouTube. - YouTube, you're right!。
So, on my way there, on the way there,。
I quickly just look up YouTube,。
found a nine-minute video for beginners, for skiing.。
So, I spent nine minutes watching the entire video,。
learning every move, and I'm like,。
"I got it, I'm ready for this!"。
Would you like to see a video?。
- Yeah! - All right.。
Let's see the first one.。
So, this is Frosted in front of me.。
Oh, we have sound, okay.。
Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry.。
This is my first-person angle.。
And we have the other one, the third-person angle.。
Let's go ahead.。
I was sure I was going straight, moving forward.。
I was so sure.。
It's like playing bowling, you know?。
So, I was so sure I was moving forward,。
but I was trying to do everything I learned。
from my nine-minute YouTube video,。
but before five seconds passed, that's what happened.。
I just slanted and I hit the net.。
And, you know, when you ski,。
you have these super long skis on your feet,。
and so I got caught in the net.。
I was surprised that iPhones,。
the audio quality of iPhone was so bad。
that this iPhone didn't pick up the laugh of my wife.。
She was laughing so hard.。
I think she hasn't laughed so hard。
for like four years in her life,。
ever since her last trip,。
and so she was just laughing and laughing。
and we were having so much fun.。
But then, this was right before,。
yeah, this was right when I got caught in the net.。
And the next moment, I was trying to get out,。
I tried to spin my body, and oops!。
I fell on the ground.。
If you've ever skied before,。
if you could imagine with me for a moment right now,。
you are not with your normal shoes,。
you're with these skiing boots,。
which is tightly tied to all the skis, long skis,。
and just a secret, you basically can't twist your ankle,。
you can't turn, and so I try every single position I could。
to pull myself up, or to push myself up,。
pull or push, I try everything,。
and trust me, I really try.。
And my Muay Thai days are way behind me。
and my core like, (imitates explosion)。
so anything I try, it didn't help.。
I was stuck right there,。
and the whole time my wife was just laughing。
when she was seeing me try, like,。
(laughs)。
and she was just laughing in a much better way.。
I just can't, yeah.。
So I was stuck and I was a bit hopeless staying there,。
and I was just kind of like embarrassed。
'cause people were just skiing by and I was stuck there,。
and I can't do anything,。
both my feet was like tightly tied to the ski,。
try to regain balance, it didn't work.。
So my dream of gliding down the slope gracefully。
with my wife, soon after five seconds,。
it became my most humbling experience。
of frustration and defeat.。
And that, but okay, don't worry,。
after an hour I took the lesson for two hours,。
and then yeah, I managed to ski down the slope,。
but then I wonder in your life,。
or in your life, or in my life,。
were there some kind of experience like this,。
experience where you feel stuck in any way?。
Maybe you've experienced being physically stuck like me。
on a mountain, on a slope,。
or perhaps there are different situations in life。
that made you feel stuck.。
Maybe it's an unhealthy or even toxic relationship.。
You know you shouldn't see this person anymore,。
you should just say goodbye and don't look back,。
but you just couldn't.。
Or maybe it's a job that you don't really enjoy,。
but you were thinking if I try to quit right now,。
the market is not that great, I may not find another one,。
so although I really hate my job,。
I'm just gonna like drag myself。
into the office every single day,。
and you're kind of like stuck inside the office,。
or perhaps you have some sort of habits。
that you are not very proud of,。
that you don't really enjoy,。
you know these kind of habits could。
either get you into trouble,。
or it's harmful for your well-being.。
You try every way to shake this habit, but you couldn't.。
Like you're sort of like addicted to it.。
You try to be healthier, you try to change,。
but you just couldn't find the motivation。
or the determination.。
You're stuck in some kind of bad habits.。
Or maybe, just like the main characters。
of our sermon series, Joseph.。
Last week we talk about this, right?。
Pastor Tim talk about the fact that he was stuck。
in a dysfunctional family, in that dynamic,。
and he was caught right in the middle.。
So Pastor Tim started us off last week。
with the story of Joseph.。
He looked at the first 11 verses in Genesis chapter 37.。
We learned that the 10 brothers of Joseph didn't like him。
because he was his father's favorite.。
Jacob had this problem of showing favoritism。
towards Joseph.。
And it was evident by his gorgeous, like long robe,。
or some versions of the Bible would translate。
as the colorful robe, which actually symbolized。
his leadership, his status in the family.。
He's the heir of the family.。
They were like, what the heck, he's the youngest one.。
Like how come he could have that and we couldn't?。
So his brothers were furious, were upset about him.。
And it just so happened, this young Joseph,。
he would see what his brother did,。
and he would go back to his dad and bad mouth them。
a little bit, hey, you know, they're misbehaving,。
they're mischieving.。
And just like what any siblings would do to each other,。
but anyway, the brothers like, no way.。
And he had these, all these dreams,。
like how the other brothers or his family。
would eventually like bow down and worship him,。
or bow down and be fearful of him.。
And so they got so angry, so upset, so pissed off,。
to a point that the Bible said they cannot speak shalom。
to him, they cannot speak peacefully to him.。
They're in this tension in their relationship,。
and that's where we begin the story of today.。
So I'm not gonna read every single verse in our passage,。
we're gonna cover the rest of chapter 37.。
There are like over 20, 30 verses,。
I'm not gonna read all of them,。
but let me just paraphrase the first part of it.。
So from verse 12 onwards, it says,。
these brothers, they were shepherding the flock。
of the father of Jacob, and Jacob decided to send Joseph。
to go look out for them and check if they。
and the flock are shalom.。
So Joseph said, yes, here I am, I will go.。
And the first thought, you know, at first, sorry,。
at first he thought they were in this place called Shechem.。
Shechem is about 15 miles from where they stay,。
where their home was.。
And so he had to walk a few days,。
and he arrived at Shechem, and he couldn't find them.。
Oh, they must be hanging out somewhere,。
having a party elsewhere.。
So someone pointed him to the place called Dothan.。
It's another like 15 miles away,。
so he walked, walked, walked, walked, walked,。
and then the Bible told us this.。
As Joseph, he was approaching this place,。
Dothan, verse 18, it says this,。
but they, the brothers, saw him, Joseph, in the distance,。
and before he reached them, they plotted to kill him.。
Here comes the dreamer, they said to each other.。
Come now, let's kill him and throw him。
into one of these cisterns or pits,。
and say that a ferocious animal devoured him,。
maybe the big bad wolf,。
then we'll see what comes of his dreams.。
When Reuben heard this, he's the eldest,。
he's the oldest brother, he said,。
he tried to rescue him from their hands,。
said don't take his life.。
He said, don't shed any blood,。
throw him into the cisterns here in the wilderness,。
but don't lay a hand on him.。
Reuben said this to rescue him from them。
and take him back to his father.。
So when Joseph came to his brothers,。
they stripped him of his robe,。
the ornate robe he was wearing,。
and they took him and threw him into the cistern or the pit.。
It was empty, there was no water in it.。
In those days, in Jacob's days,。
these kind of like deep cisterns or pits,。
they were either natural,。
or sometimes they were dug out pits to store rainwater.。
So it's water storage,。
but it's so deep that if you throw a person inside,。
that person will not be able to get out.。
So it's perfect to be a holding cell.。
And some of these brothers suggested killing him,。
and they even came up with a cover-up story.。
Oh yeah, there's a big bad wolf coming,。
I mean, like an animal who ate him,。
and they made up this story.。
The passage didn't show us。
who initiated that idea of killing him,。
but I would guess, if you let me guess,。
I would guess it's Levi and Simeon,。
'cause a few chapters back,。
they just slaughtered a whole town of males。
in the place of Shechem,。
which is where they were supposed to be.。
So they slaughtered the entire city.。
They were totally capable of taking someone's life,。
of that level of violence.。
Then this eldest brother, Reuben, he counter-proposed,。
hey, why don't we just leave him in the pit?。
He's gonna die anyway, there's no water, there's no food.。
He'll die eventually.。
And then they said, yeah, okay,。
we can just leave him there.。
But the author, he revealed his intention,。
Reuben's intention to us.。
He was trying to save him, bring him back to his father.。
But nonetheless, when Jacob, sorry, when Joseph came,。
he was thrown into the pit.。
So for the very first time in Joseph's life, he was stuck.。
He was trapped in a pit so deep he couldn't escape.。
His freedom was taken away from him.。
His status, which was symbolized by his rope,。
was stripped away from him.。
But this was worse, that his understanding of family,。
his trust in those who were supposed to be his protectors,。
who were closest to him, who would draw near him,。
who would protect him, who were supposed to care for him,。
that kind of trust was lost the very moment。
he reached the bottom of that pit.。
The people he should trust the most betrayed him,。
threw him into that place.。
This pit or that pit, it's a place of loss.。
Joseph lost his brothers, his family,。
his right to live as a free man,。
and he lost his future inside that pit.。
You know, he would have become the heir。
to Jacob's inheritance, and he must have grown up。
listening to his father talking about the blessings of God,。
first to his great-grandfather Abraham,。
and then to his grandfather Isaac,。
and then to his father Jacob.。
And now when I grow up, when I reach a certain age,。
I will receive that blessing。
from the laying of hands of my father,。
and I am gonna become the leader,。
or the patriarch of this whole clan,。
and I am going to be someone that others respect.。
People would pay attention to what I say,。
I would inherit a big fortune, I'll have my own servants,。
people will listen to me,。
and even other leaders in the region,。
they may want to make peace with me,。
I will become a powerful man.。
That was supposed to be his future,。
that was his trajectory, but that was gone。
the moment he reached that pit.。
And all that he could grasp right now。
is just the dry, dirty mud in that pit.。
So in those days, family was actually。
more than just a source of nurture or provision,。
it was the foundational social structure。
that guaranteed security and survival,。
that's why they stay as a big clan, as a big family.。
Family is not just your daddy and mommy,。
and brothers and sisters,。
it's normally a big group of people living together,。
that's what a family looked like in those days.。
It's a social structure that makes sure。
people are safe, they can survive,。
and the family was a primary unit of subsistence.。
And all family functions served the goal of survival.。
What an irony it was that Joseph's very own family,。
those meant to provide him with security and survival,。
they're the one instead who condemned him。
to suffering and slavery.。
They're supposed to give him survival and security,。
but now instead they gave him slavery,。
they gave him suffering.。
I guess some of us in this room,。
we could have similar experience。
of being stuck in a pit, a place of loss in our lives.。
It could be perhaps a financial loss。
that is so great that you know you cannot recover from,。
or maybe it could be a loss of health,。
you know you're in a serious sickness,。
or maybe you lost someone that is so dear to your heart,。
or maybe like Joseph, you experienced betrayal。
by those who were so close to you,。
and you lost the ability to trust people again。
in that experience.。
I think what made this narrative,。
the narrative of Joseph so relatable,。
was the fact that if you read this chapter,。
chapter 37 of Genesis,。
God's name was not even mentioned once.。
In all the chaos, when all the chaos unfolded,。
you don't see God's name, you don't see what he was doing,。
you don't see him move.。
It was as though he was silent.。
He was hiding behind the curtain,。
pretty much like what you and I might have felt。
when we were stuck in our own pit,。
when our world was falling apart。
and you were asking questions like,。
"Where's God?。
"Why is this happening to me?"。
And the awkward, simple truth here is this, church,。
if you ever ask that question,。
when God is with us,。
it doesn't mean bad things can't happen.。
I hope you have made peace with this truth in your life.。
Let me say that again.。
When God is with us,。
it doesn't mean bad things can't happen.。
But the story of Joseph should remind us。
that the flip side of it, the opposite, is also true.。
When bad things happen,。
it doesn't mean God is not with us.。
If we could embrace this truth,。
if we could live with it, if we could wrestle with it,。
I believe it's gonna get us out of。
some very difficult situations in life.。
And spoiler alert, for the story of Joseph。
and for our own lives,。
it's true in all human life。
that the presence of God。
and the presence of troubles in life,。
they're never mutually exclusive.。
Presence of God, all my troubles,。
they coexist perfectly in our lives.。
Isn't that true?。
Isn't that true for you?。
But church, we should know one thing.。
The reading and the understanding。
of the entire story of Joseph。
should give us confidence about one thing,。
that the presence of God is right there。
with Joseph in that pit,。
even though it wasn't mentioned in the Bible.。
And likewise, his presence,。
it's also right here with you。
when you are in your pit.。
That's what we need to know.。
That's what we need assurance of today,。
walking away from the story of Joseph.。
But church, there's something else。
we need to recognize from the story.。
Joseph is not the only person。
who is stuck here.。
Yeah, his 10 brothers,。
they might be seated outside the pit,。
but they were just equally stuck。
in this dysfunctional family.。
To be specific,。
they were stuck in the hurt。
and the brokenness。
caused by their father's favoritism。
towards Joseph.。
And so they were stuck in jealousy.。
They were stuck in resentment,。
their aggressive behavior towards Joseph。
was evident,。
that there are unresolved issues in their life,。
and their insecurity,。
their feelings of unworthiness,。
or maybe I'm not worthy of my father's love.。
These are the issues going on in their hearts.。
And they have been carrying that。
with them inside all along.。
When they failed to earn their father's love,。
instead of addressing it directly with their father,。
they displace their anger。
and frustration on Joseph.。
They let it out on him.。
Hey, it's you.。
You are the one who took away that daddy's love.。
So we're doing this to you.。
They displace that kind of feeling on Joseph.。
And sometimes I realized in my life,。
harboring bad feelings,。
harboring negative feelings,。
emotions, keeping them to ourselves,。
it's so much easier than to talking about it。
and resolving it with a person。
or people who are concerned, right?。
And yet these feelings,。
sooner or later,。
they start to manifest in our speech.。
Would you like to go to lunch?。
Oh, go to lunch,。
depends on who, with whom.。
It's somehow, it will come out in your language,。
come out in your gesture,。
come out in your facial expression.。
It becomes your attitude,。
becomes your behavior.。
You will show it.。
We call it passive aggressive sometimes.。
And then it could become verbal violence,。
verbal abuse,。
gets worse,。
becomes physical violence,。
different kinds of violence or abuse.。
If we let that feeling,。
let that emotions harbor deep inside of our hearts,。
sooner or later,。
it's gonna affect what's inside here。
and affects what's outside,。
what we're doing,。
what we're saying.。
And we could be stuck for years。
in a brokenness。
or the patterns of thoughts and behaviors。
due to an unhealthy relationship。
or due to some sort of emotional brokenness we experience.。
But church, we need to know this.。
There is no shame to admit。
that we're stuck in emotional or relational brokenness.。
There is no shame.。
Why?。
'Cause we all experienced that.。
We all had those problems.。
Well, I'm not saying that we should have a party。
and compare our sufferings,。
our brokenness,。
we don't have to do that.。
But we can just share with people。
as a broken person to another broken person,。
hey, this is what I've been through.。
Oh yes,。
maybe I haven't been through the exact same thing,。
but I know what it is to be heartbroken.。
So I'm here for you.。
I'm here to support you.。
We don't need to compare,。
but it's okay to admit,。
it's okay to tell people about our own emotional brokenness。
or relational brokenness.。
Or what some psychological professionals,。
they would call this unfinished business in our lives.。
The story of the sons of Jacob,。
it's a perfect reminder for us。
to be self-aware of how we might have been。
emotionally wounded in the past。
and how it might be still affecting us right now.。
But I do want to point out the hope in this tragic story.。
Behind the brothers' plan to harm Joseph。
lie the two dreams of Joseph.。
Everybody bowing, in the family bowing,。
and they hated that dream so much,。
they even start calling him, oh, this dreamer.。
And they even said when they try to harm him,。
when they try to kill him,。
they said, let's see what's happened to those dreams.。
They were so angry about what's gonna happen。
if those dreams would come to pass.。
And they tried to stop that,。
but they could never imagine that the very plans。
that they were scheming to stop those dreams。
were actually the same plans。
that lead to the fulfillment of those dreams.。
Because they decided to sell him to someone,。
and then Joseph ended up in Egypt,。
and then he ended up become the prime minister。
or the number two of the country.。
And then they had to come for food and come and buy food,。
and so they had to bow down before him.。
It was their own doing.。
They tried to stop that dream from coming true,。
but then their own plans made that dream come true.。
But that's not all.。
So this is what Joseph told his brothers in chapter 50,。
towards the end of the story,。
which Pastor Tim read to us last week.。
He says, "You intended," you meaning the brothers,。
"You intended to harm me, but God intended it for good。
"to accomplish what is now being done,。
"the saving of many lives."。
The beauty in this sentence。
is that those many lives that were saved。
actually included the very lives of the 10 brothers.。
What does that mean?。
In other words, these emotionally broken,。
wicked, violent people were included。
in God's salvation plan through the very person。
they tried to harm and kill.。
They tried to do something bad,。
but their action actually became part of God's plan。
to bring forth salvation,。
not just for Joseph or those good people,。
but even for these bad people themselves.。
So I'm confident that even in our emotional brokenness,。
in our relational brokenness,。
even when we're affected by those brokenness nowadays,。
maybe we have harmed people around us,。
maybe we have hurt people around us,。
but even when we are unconsciously doing that,。
we're still part of God's plan of salvation.。
God is still in charge.。
He's still doing something to help, to rescue, to heal.。
We're never out of His plan.。
He's still here for us.。
He's still here with us,。
and that's the good news in this broken, this tragic story.。
But I must say that that doesn't give us permission。
to harm anyone in our own brokenness.。
Please don't go away saying,。
"Oh, Pastor Chapman said this,。
"so I don't think it's a problem if I hurt you today."。
Please don't go out and do that, all right?。
I may lose my job, but so don't do that.。
Don't go out and say, "Okay, now I can harm people freely。
"'cause I have my own brokenness."。
No, the point is not that.。
The point is, it's not the permission。
that we can get to harm people in our brokenness.。
The point is that it should gives us reassurance。
to the hope in our Savior。
that whatever we're going through,。
whatever mess we're in right now,。
He can still bring healing,。
He can still bring restoration,。
and He's gonna still transform us into a new creation,。
and that's the point of this story.。
Can I get an amen for that?。
Okay, that's good.。
I think I can keep my job.。
All right, let's finish up this story.。
Again, I'm just gonna paraphrase these next 20 verses.。
So in the end, the brothers didn't kill Joseph.。
Judah actually came up with an idea to sell him.。
The rest is history.。
They decided to move along with that plan,。
and they earned two years of wage,。
two years of shepherds' wage,。
and so they took his rope,。
dip it into some animal blood,。
took it back to the father and say,。
"Oh, dad, our younger brother is dead.。
"Some animal ate him."。
And the father bought it and said,。
"Oh, my son is dead, my son."。
And he was in his grief.。
He was so sad, he was crying,。
to a point that the Bible says he refused to be comforted.。
When his children come and try to comfort him,。
they said, "No, I don't want your comfort."。
Here we have the third person。
or the third party being stuck in grief,。
and that's Jacob.。
But Jacob, he's not only stuck in his grief.。
There was something else that he was actually stuck in.。
You see, if we look at the wider picture。
of the Genesis narrative,。
we would begin to see the family history。
of Joseph and Jacob and the father and the grandfather,。
and we would actually see this.。
Can I have the next slide, please?。
So we have Joseph and his brothers.。
We know that Jacob is showing favoritism。
to Joseph and neglect his brothers.。
But if we look one level up,。
we have Isaac with the two sons, Jacob and Esau.。
And we know that Isaac, as the father,。
he actually loves Esau,。
and the mother, Rebecca,。
whose name is not here on the board right now,。
but he actually loves Jacob.。
They each show favoritism towards one kid.。
And so that means Jacob, ever since he was born,。
he grew up in a family that's been showing favoritism.。
That's all he knew about a family.。
Family has always been like that.。
You love one kid, you hate the other.。
But that's not the end of the story.。
Let's go up one more level.。
We have Isaac.。
Isaac actually has a brother called Ishmael.。
If you know the story of Abraham,。
God promised him, would give him a son.。
Abraham, like, I can't wait, I can't wait.。
I believe you, but I can't wait,。
so I'm gonna make a son on my own.。
And ta-da, we have Ishmael.。
And after only 13 years, God says,。
no, no, no, no, no, Ishmael is not the kid。
I'm gonna give you, I'm gonna give you this Isaac.。
And so Isaac was, ta-da, was born,。
and then they push Ishmael away.。
The moment Isaac was born, he experienced favoritism.。
So what we see here, it's what we call。
a generational pattern of favoritism,。
or a generational pattern of brokenness.。
You see, this favoritism actually passed down。
through generations, and Jacob, being born in a family,。
that favoritism has been the norm for generations.。
For him, of course, if Joseph and the brothers。
are suffering from him, that's a guarantee,。
because that's how it runs in the family.。
We're seeing this brokenness in every single generation。
in this family.。
So Jacob and all his sons right now,。
they're actually stuck in this kind of generational pattern。
of brokenness.。
But nonetheless, God still call himself,。
I'm the God of Abraham, I'm the God of Isaac,。
I'm the God of Jacob.。
Every generation, I am their God, I will be with them.。
I'm here, my salvation is with them.。
My plans are not done with them yet.。
I know my plans for them.。
It's not plans to harm them, it's the plans to prosper them.。
Every single generation, every single one in the family,。
even those who were cast away from the family,。
they were still taken good care of by God.。
God still send angels to supply their needs。
or give them places to live.。
God is still a good God to every single generation.。
So church, today, in one story,。
we three different stories of brokenness,。
or three different stories of being stuck.。
We have Joseph, he was stuck in a physical pit,。
he was physically stuck.。
He was stuck in a place where he lost everything.。
That pit symbolizes the loss in his life.。
Basically, he lost everything overnight.。
His status, his freedom, his future, his family,。
his friendships with his siblings, everything was gone,。
everything was stripped away from him overnight.。
We have someone who is stuck in a pit like that.。
We have a group of brothers,。
they were stuck in their emotional brokenness。
because of what they have experienced from their father。
or from their family.。
And this emotional brokenness manifested in a way。
that it becomes a harmful behavior.。
It becomes aggressive, violent behavior。
towards someone they don't enjoy the company of.。
And we also see someone who is stuck。
in what we call generational pattern of brokenness.。
And I feel today, if we allow the Holy Spirit。
to come and speak to us,。
if we allow him to come and talk to us,。
if we try to listen to his voice。
like we learned last week from Pastor John,。
I think maybe he would gently remind us。
where we may be at in one of these three buckets.。
Maybe somewhere we're stuck.。
Maybe we're stuck in our own loss in our lives.。
We're stuck in past experience like betrayals.。
We've been stuck with things that we have lost.。
Maybe we're stuck in all this emotional hurt in the past。
that is still affecting us right now.。
Maybe it changed our attitude towards other people.。
Maybe now I can't fully 100% trust anyone around me.。
Maybe now I'm a little bit hostile towards people,。
just normal people I've never met,。
but my default right now,。
it's being slightly more on the hostile end。
rather than the friendly side。
because of my past experience.。
I allow my experience in the past,。
those harmful, hurtful experience to reshape who I am today.。
Or perhaps we're from families。
that struggles with generational curse,。
generational sin, generational patterns of brokenness.。
Being here in Asia is one of the good example.。
We have been living in a culture。
that we like male more than female.。
I'm so sorry for all the lovely sisters in the room.。
You all are perfect and amazing,。
but we're in a very broken culture here.。
We value guys more than girls。
just because guys can go out and work,。
do more like hard work in the past。
and they can earn a little bit more income for the family.。
But we pass that idea down every generation.。
I know maybe in Chinese culture,。
I know there are women, they were born。
and they were not liked。
'cause their parents only wanted a son.。
But when it came out, oh, it's a daughter.。
They would even name their daughter。
with a Chinese character that symbolizes brother。
to express their wish of having a son.。
We know how all these generational weird ideas。
have been affecting maybe every family。
have their own stories and some families particularly.。
I know addictions could pass down through families.。
I know there are bad things that could pass down,。
poverty that can pass down through families,。
but when we're stuck there,。
we need to know there is good news.。
We need to know the same God who is with Abraham,。
with Isaac, with Jacob, with Joseph.。
He's even right now here with us through his Holy Spirit。
because we have come back to him through Jesus Christ.。
He's with us, he's for us,。
and he's determined to change that, to transform us。
so that we would become born again, new creation.。
He's determined to do that.。
And so I wonder where you are today, church, my friends,。
whether you're like Joseph being stuck in a place。
because of your loss in your life,。
or maybe you're stuck in a place。
where past emotional hurts, sufferings have shaped you.。
You know there are some things inside of you,。
you were not like that,。
but because you experienced certain things,。
now you behave a certain way, you say things certain way,。
and you know that's not you.。
Or maybe there are things even from a broader source,。
tradition from generations or culture。
that's been passed down,。
and you just accepted those values,。
or maybe you don't even like those values.。
Maybe you even think that doesn't make sense,。
but somehow you don't know being part of the family。
means you have to believe that, you have to hold on to that.。
I think today God wants to set us free from any of those.。
I think today if we come before him with all our hearts,。
if we come before him knowing that there's no shame。
to admit our brokenness,。
there's no shame to admit that we're stuck,。
and even inviting his Holy Spirit into our hearts,。
I believe he's gonna do something amazing here today。
for you and for me.。
Shall we pray?。
I just wanna divide a prayer time today。
into three different sections for each of the scenario。
or each of the buckets of,。
pockets of people that we need to pray for.。
First, I would love to pray for all you guys can remain,。
you know, eyes closed.。
Let's just have this space and time for God to work in us.。
If any one of you, you know that's you,。
you have suffered something, you have suffered a loss,。
any kind of loss, you know you're stuck in a pit,。
like Joseph, something that is precious,。
that is important to you have been taken away.。
Now you're in a place of loss.。
Maybe now your life is in chaos,。
maybe your health, your finance, your job,。
your family, relationships,。
someone who is very important to you,。
you know, without that,。
now your life is in a bit of a chaos.。
I want you to know that even though。
in the story of Joseph in chapter 37,。
God's name was never mentioned once,。
it does not change the fact that he's there with him。
and he's here with you right now.。
Even with God in your life,。
bad things can happen, do happen.。
But then at the same time, even when bad things happen,。
it doesn't change the fact that God is with you.。
So if you know that is you。
and you would like to be prayed for,。
I just simply ask you to open your hands.。
It's as though you're receiving something from God,。
it's just a gesture, it's nothing fancy or special,。
it's just a simple gesture of heart。
that God, I wanna receive your presence right now.。
Holy Spirit, I pray you would just gently come upon。
all those who yearn for you right now.。
Say, God, I know I've been through some mess in my life,。
I'm in a pit right now, but I know,。
or I want to know, I want to experience that right in my pit。
that your presence is with me.。
Father, I pray that you would make your presence known。
to these friends and brothers and sisters today。
or in the coming days and weeks,。
you would fill them with your presence.。
They would know having that assurance,。
knowing that you are there with them.。
I pray for your comfort, I pray for your strength for them.。
Now, the second group of people,。
maybe you know you've been emotionally hurt in the past,。
things that have been said over you,。
people, whatever they've done over you,。
you know you're hurt and you know that actually changed。
something inside of your heart.。
You know that emotional brokenness,。
actually, it has an effect on you.。
The way you think, the way you feel, the way you react,。
the way you hang out with people,。
the way you say things or do things in your life,。
you know, and God is willing to heal you today。
if you are willing to let him.。
So if that's you, I just gently invite you to,。
you can open up your hands or in any way,。
you just note, you just indicate that to God and say,。
"God, I want your healing today.。
"I don't want to let this or that event。
"or what that person did to me,。
"I don't want that to define who I am.。
"I don't want that to define。
"how I'm gonna treat other people.。
"I don't want to let that define how I'm gonna treat myself。
"from now on."。
And so Father, I just pray for your healing。
over them right now.。
Come Lord Jesus.。
Come and make the broken heart whole again.。
I pray for your shallow,。
the wholeness.。
I pray for the soul of the hearts today in Jesus' name.。
Last but not least, I want to pray for,。
if you know you are suffering from what I've explained。
as the generational pattern of brokenness,。
or you know there are generational sin in your family,。
I know sin is a big word, but bear with me for a moment.。
If you know there are things going on in your family,。
like in your parents' generation,。
your parents' parents' parents' parents' generation,。
and you actually know something is going on,。
and something is undesirable, you know it's wrong,。
you know it's unbiblical, you know it's a sin,。
if you know that, I encourage you,。
you can bring that to God today.。
You can simply say, "Dear God,。
"I know in my family, my ancestors,。
"they have done this, or they have believed this,"。
and you can fill in the blanks for whatever that is.。
I know that was sinful, I know that was not right.。
So in Jesus' name, I renounce that in my family today.。
In the name of Jesus, I declare that from today onwards,。
in my life, I'm not gonna pass that on。
to the next generation.。
It ends today in my family, in Jesus' name, amen.。
Let's continue to pray and worship.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
