- Thank you, Tim, thank you.。
So I have been to church for a long time。
since I was really young.。
And because of that, a lot of the aunties and uncles。
in the church would ask me,。
"Jun, go and share your testimony with the younger ones."。
And every time I hear that, I get really nervous。
because I don't have a really good story to tell.。
I'm a second generation Christian.。
Well, actually a third, 'cause my grandma was a Christian.。
So I've always grown up knowing God is real.。
I've always known, you know, He is here in my life.。
So when I, I don't have any exciting things to tell.。
And also when I wanna talk about...。
Away. (laughs)。
So exactly, like sometimes I get really nervous。
about talking to people and sharing about my story,。
and there's just not much to say, right?。
Maybe you need to help me fix it.。
(audience laughs)。
- Hi.。
(audience cheers)。
- Thank you so much.。
So I have nothing, really a lot going on in my life to share。
until my mom started baking bread, right?。
So she doesn't just bake her bread。
in those baking bread machines.。
She would grow her yeast.。
She would knead the bread by hand,。
and then she would prove it for a really long time.。
She normally started it in the afternoon.。
And normally it takes the whole day to do it.。
And so by nighttime, at 11 o'clock nighttime,。
the whole house is filled with the bread aromas.。
And she'll go, "Joon, would you like to taste my bread?"。
And I go, "Mom, I'm full already.。
"I just had dinner not too long ago."。
And she would be a little bit upset.。
And she go, "Not even a bite of your mom's bread."。
I go, "Okay, okay, let me taste it."。
So I would taste it.。
And she'll ask me, "Is it good?"。
"Yeah, it's good."。
And she would always have this follow-up question。
to ask me, "Why is it good?。
"Why do you like it?。
"How do you compare it with store-bought bread?"。
And so now, as I'm like a few years later,。
I'm very good at describing the textures and the taste。
and all the different combinations of bread.。
And then I thought, "Wow, not only I'm able to articulate it,。
"what I say can be a proof for my mom to say。
"that, yes, my bread is good because my daughter said this,。
"because this is exactly what she tasted."。
And so fast forward to now, when I realize that,。
oh, when I have to articulate why something is good,。
I can remember the details that I easily forgotten.。
I could put the fleeting feelings into words。
to share with other people.。
And testimony sharing is similar to that.。
It is about sharing and celebrating。
what God has done in your life,。
whether it is when you first believe。
or when you're just experiencing God's presence in your life。
and the changes that He has in your life.。
So stepping into 2025, think about 2024.。
Has it been a really quick year for you?。
Or has this year been a little bit long and dragging。
and you're wishing that 2025 could come sooner?。
Have you noticed anything that you've changed for yourself?。
And how has God been involved in your life?。
Today, we're going to look at Psalm 66。
and see how the Israelites have been reflecting。
and praising God in their lives。
to inspire us how we could reflect on our own lives as well.。
So let's look at Psalm 66, verse one to five first.。
It says, "Shout for joy to God, all the earth.。
"Sing about the glory of His name.。
"Make His praise glorious.。
"Say to God, 'How awesome are your deeds!。
"'Because of your great power,。
"'your enemies cringe before you.。
"'All the earth bow down to you.。
"'They sing praise to you.。
"'They sing the praises of your name.。
"'Come and see what God has done,。
"'His awesome deeds for mankind.'"。
Right from the start, the Psalmist gives very clear guidance。
on how to praise and what to praise.。
So how should we praise?。
We need to sing, we need to shout,。
we need to speak out God's praise.。
But what do we share about?。
We will share about what He has done,。
His power and His name.。
He is the God of provision.。
He is the Almighty God.。
That is His name and that is His personality。
and character towards us.。
In verse five, the Psalmist says directly,。
"Come and see what God has done."。
The English version is actually very closely translated。
to the Hebrew one because of the structure.。
They both begin with the verbs, "Come and see."。
It's not thought, like praise is not a thought。
that we could go, "Oh, you get me, God.。
"You know why I praise you.。
"I will just keep it in my heart."。
It's not like that at all.。
The Psalmist actually is calling His community。
to come and see what God has done in their life.。
It's so urgency.。
Come quickly and see what God has done.。
When we look back at what God has done in our lives,。
we naturally want to tell other people to come and see it,。
to come and experience it for yourself.。
So I had this really good experience like that as well.。
So this month, the beginning of December,。
I found this really delicious yakitori place。
just next to my building.。
And so with just this month, I had it five times。
'cause I kept telling my friend, my family,。
my old coworkers to, "You have to come and see the place。
"because the favorite thing I love about that place。
"is their eel skewers."。
Do you eat eel here?。
Who eats eel?。
Oh, there are some of you who like,。
"No, I'm not gonna try that."。
(laughs)。
Well, this eel is so good because the skin is very crispy.。
And when you bite into it, the juice just burst out。
and the meat is just so bouncy and it's just so delicious.。
And I kept telling people, "You have to come and see it."。
And so I had this five times.。
And so this is exactly what my reflection is like.。
I have to go home and think about,。
did I reflect about what God has been in my life like that?。
Have I savored it so much that I would want to share。
with other people as well?。
And so then in verse five to seven and eight to 12,。
this is exactly what the Psalmist did.。
He wants to testify God's goodness in two different angles.。
The first one comes in verse five to seven.。
It says, "Come and see what God has done,。
"His awesome deeds for mankind.。
"He turned the sea into dry land.。
"They passed through the waters on foot.。
"Come, let us rejoice in Him.。
"He rules forever by His power.。
"His eyes watch the nations.。
"Let not the rebellious rise up against Him."。
The Psalmist give thanks for the identity。
God has given them.。
So the Israelites before that, before they were a nation,。
they actually had been slaves of the Egyptian slaves.。
But God's action set them free。
and their identity changed to become God's people.。
Even though the Psalmist never experienced God,。
you know, opening up the Red Sea for them。
and he actually walked through the dry land,。
but this is the identity they refer to.。
When you ask the Israelites, "Who are you?。
"Where do you come from?"。
The first thought that come into their mind。
is the way that God set the nations free。
and give them identity.。
When we talk about identity nowadays,。
we would say that, "Oh, I am,"。
like if you asked me like a few years ago,。
I would say, "Oh, I am a teacher.。
"I was someone else's daughter。
"and I belong to this and that place."。
But the first thing that Israelites,。
when they want to praise God,。
the first thing that come out of their mouth。
is the identity, the relationship they had with God.。
God set me free.。
God took me out from someplace, from slavery,。
into freedom, into God's people.。
So when I ask you,。
if you have to ask yourself this question,。
what is your identity right now?。
Who do you belong to?。
What would you have said differently?。
Or what inspired you to think about that question?。
And so they ask people to come and see。
where they are at now.。
I am now free.。
I am now God's people.。
So come and see.。
It's not just to come and look at them,。
but to come and consider, come and think about this.。
Do you see who I am now?。
I am God's people.。
This can't be achieved by just mere human striving.。
This has to be done by God's power.。
And you just have to look and consider。
and think about where I am now.。
And in verse eight to 12,。
it talked about the hardship.。
But looking back,。
they understood something deeper through the process.。
So let's have a look at verse eight to 12.。
Verse eight, it says,。
"Praise our God, all peoples.。
"Let the sounds of his praise be heard.。
"He has preserved our lives。
"and kept our feet from slipping.。
"For you, God, tested us.。
"You refined us like silver.。
"You brought us into prison。
"and laid burdens on our backs.。
"You let people ride over our heads.。
"We went through fire and water,。
"but you brought us to a place of abundance."。
When we remember God's work during hardships,。
we can see things differently.。
There are many explanations or why suffering happens.。
Sometimes there are no explanation。
why there are sufferings as well.。
But God is always working.。
He's always at work.。
When the psalmist remember that difficulty,。
they see a purpose behind it.。
In verse 10, the psalmist says,。
"God refines them like silver.。
"Even though they were trapped and burdened,。
"even though they suffered,。
"they saw these as spiritual refinement."。
So how do you refine silver?。
How do you refine silver?。
Well, the first step is to heat up silver。
to really high temperature, as high as 1,000 degrees.。
And then they put lead into it.。
The lead attracts all the other impurities,。
all the other substances,。
and it actually weighted them down.。
All the impurities will be weighted down。
until there's only silver left at the bottom.。
But the craftsmen still need to watch over it.。
They still need to discern whether the silver。
is pure enough by seeing how it reflects.。
And so this is until the silver is mirror-like.。
And the psalmist says,。
"God made them carry heavy burdens.。
"God led them through different challenges.。
"They went through fire and water,。
"but these were not the final destination.。
"The purpose for all of that。
"is to bring them to a place of abundance.。
"Jesus said, 'He came so we could have life。
"'and have it more abundantly.'"。
What does abundant life looks like?。
What does it mean to have an abundant life?。
Here's something interesting.。
When Jesus talks about abundance,。
He never once mentioned our possessions, not once.。
He talks about peace that goes beyond understanding.。
He talks about joy that persists even in hard times.。
He talks about relationship that fills our hearts.。
The process of getting an abundant life。
requires our hearts to keep up with our understanding.。
Sometimes there are good things that happen。
and we rejoice it and we feel directly of God's love。
and God's mercy and gracious things on us.。
Sometimes we have to go through difficult times。
to adjust our hearts so that we can be refined.。
The process of getting an abundant life。
requires our hearts to keep up with our understanding.。
When does a craftsman know that the silver is good enough?。
When it has high reflectivity and no impurities.。
The craftsman have to watch over the silver's transformation.。
They have to look at your transformation,。
the silver's transformation, and test its reflectivity.。
Through difficulties, God refines us.。
God constantly watches over my life。
so that it can better reflect His image.。
And I'm thankful for our heavenly brother for doing that.。
And today I've invited three friends to come up。
and share what God has been doing in their life.。
And today they would like to tell you。
to come and see what God has done in their lives.。
Not just to see what God is doing,。
but think about it and consider how things are done.。
And so the first one I'd like to invite Francesca.。
Let's give her a warm welcome.。
(audience applauding)。
So we've always known Francesca.。
She is service leading, she's in the coffee team,。
she's in many different, different roles.。
But today she's gonna share about。
what God has been doing in her life.。
So I'm gonna give the time to Francesca.。
- Thank you.。
