All right. Well, good morning everybody。
Like I said, thank you fran. It's good to see familiar faces in a new place, you know。
I've been saying it feels like it feels like home, but also feels like a new environment。
So i'm really glad to be it's a joy and an honor to be with you today。
Um, I just love so much what god has been doing in this process of us。
Praying discerning where to set up the church plant and now being established here in yunlong and the message today。
Fran had a word and pre-service you guys had a word about not giving up and that's basically the gist of today's message。
Don't give up keep going because there's a beautiful plan。
That god wants to work through this church and this community。
So our role is to press on to be kept being led by jesus. Amen。
Amen, good. So like fran said, my name's allison part of the parasol team and one chi and hopefully i'll be here a bit more。
Often to really get to know。
Each other but for now, let's take a look at god's word together。
So if you have a bible or if you want to I think it might be on the screen。
We're going to be in hebrews chapter 10。
Versus 19 to 25 hebrews chapter 10 versus 19 to 25。
Welcome to you if you're joining us online as well, so i'm going to read it try and follow along。
Where the lord says this therefore brothers and sisters。
Since we have confidence to enter the most holy place by the blood of jesus by a new and living way。
Open for us through the curtain. That is his body. Thank you. Justin。
And since we have a great priest over the house of god。
That a straw near to god with a sincere heart with the assurance with the full assurance that faith brings。
Having our hearts sprinkled to cleanse us from a guilty conscience and having our bodies washed with pure water。
Let us hold unswervingly to the hope we profess for he who promised is faithful。
And now let's consider how we may spur one another on toward love and good deeds。
Not giving up meeting together as some are in the habit of doing。
But encouraging one another and all the more as you see the day approaching。
One of my favorite movies。
Maybe not my favorite the most nostalgic movies for me of all time is the original karate kid。
Right the one with ralph macchio not the one with jaden smith and jackie chan。
Okay, the original karate kid right in a very basic synopsis. This is what happens, right?。
Um, there's it's about a boy called daniel who's being bullied right daniel la russo。
He's bullying he's being bullied and so he finds the handyman right in his building. Mr. Miyagi。
And actually, mr. Miyagi is a martial arts expert。
And so mr. Miyagi sees him being bullied one day and he decides i'm going to teach this kid karate。
All right, so he takes daniel's son under his wing to train him up。
Enter him into the local karate competition so he can defeat his bullies and be done with the harassment once and for all。
But to daniel's disappointment, mr. Miyagi's training tactics are at first a bit。
Unorthodox to say the least right instead of teaching daniel karate movements。
First of all, he has him doing household chores, right?。
Things like washing and waxing his car like wax on wax off wax on wax off right sanding the floor。
Okay painting the fence painting his house。
Right, and so he does this for weeks and weeks and weeks and he's getting really frustrated daniel's saying what is the point?。
Right. I thought you're going to teach me karate instead. You have me doing your chores, right?。
Just doing manual labor and he's getting more and more frustrated。
And then comes like this magical moment in the movie, right?。
He's talking to mr. Miyagi having his you know, venting his frustrations and mr。
Miyagi says hit me and he's like what just hit me. Oh, no, actually i'm gonna hit you. Mr。
Miyagi goes to hit him. Okay, and as the fist comes in。
Reaction just you know muscle memory kicks in and daniel like blocks his punch。
And hits his thing and blocks his punch and blocks his punch and mr。
Miyagi keeps hitting him he all these movements he's been actually doing go and check out the movie tonight。
Okay have actually been training him right to block all of mr. Miyagi's movements. I'm not a martial arts expert by any means, okay。
But that's what he was doing right wax on wax off all these things were actually movements to block。
punches coming in。
And suddenly it all makes sense。
Right. Mr. Miyagi was actually through these things preparing him for something already。
And so when we get to the passage today。
This is sort of what it's been like in the book of hebrews up till this point。
The writer of hebrews has been preparing his readers for something, but it's not quite clear what he's been preparing them for。
Right. He's been explaining to them who jesus is。
Jesus as the ultimate sacrifice right the one and best sacrifice the ultimate sacrifice for all sins。
Jesus fulfills the will of god by dying for our sins because of jesus god no longer remembers our sinful and lawless deeds。
But so what?。
What does it mean for us? Like what meaning does this have what does jesus's life has to do with our life?。
And it's in this moment. We realize all these things have been preparing us for one thing。
And that is to worship god to worship him。
to get us ready to enter into。
Worship, in fact all these things have happened。
The book of hebrews says to tell us that so that we can worship god in confidence first 19 says this therefore。
brothers and sisters。
Since now we have confidence to enter the most holy place by the blood of jesus。
Because of what jesus has done. We are ready to worship him. We are ready to enter into the most。
Holy place we have the confidence to enter into the most holy place。
In other words, there's no need to doubt anymore。
Now to us this might not sound like a huge deal, but in the context of biblical history。
We have to remember there was a time where perhaps people were not as confident to go in approach and worship god。
To understand the significance of this, right?。
We have to go back to the place where once upon a time there was called the most holy place。
The holy of holies was where the spirit of god was set to have dwelt。
But going into that place。
Wasn't something that was supposed to be done lightheartedly。
And in order to enter the most holy place there needed to be sacrifices and rituals as instructed by old testament law。
And only certain priests at certain times could go into the presence of god and if it wasn't done properly。
You risked your life。
You could result in death。
But now since jesus has prepared since god has prepared us since jesus has become the ultimate。
Sacrifice because his blood has washed away all sin。
We don't need to be afraid。
And now all of us can enter into the presence of god with confidence。
We don't need to go through the formalities of sacrifices and rituals。
We don't need to worry about whether we're qualified as a priest to enter into god's presence because jesus has qualified us。
by his blood。
All we simply need to do now is approach god。
Hebrews 10 10 says like this we have been made holy through the sacrifice of the body of jesus christ once and for all。
And so this is I love so much hearing everybody worship just now because it was with such heartfelt voices that we sang that song。
To those songs together, right? It was with such confidence。
Knowing that what we were singing is true knowing that what we were singing is the word of god not because of what we have done。
But because of what jesus has done for us。
We sing those songs confidently and that is such a beautiful and amazing thing。
Now。
Don't get it twisted though church being confident does not mean being casual about it。
Right, we can enter with confidence. We don't need the sacrifices. We don't need the rituals because of what jesus has done。
But that confidence shouldn't be casual。
Having that confidence should actually shape us in certain ways as a people of god。
Right and being a confident person in god. Actually, I think there are four characteristics。
that this um。
That this passage highlights to us the four characteristics of being a confident person a person that's confident to worship jesus。
Number one it tells us this we have sincere hearts。
in other words。
When you enter into a place of worship when you enter that space with god when you're worshipping him our hearts have to be。
sincere。
There is no pretense。
As people who have been transformed by god the process starts from the inside。
Having sincere hearts think of it this way。
Have you ever tried to build a relationship with someone that you know, you knew their heart wasn't really in it。
Right, you're pouring yourself out to them. You're you're sharing them with your stories. Um, there's a anyone here watch love is blind on netflix。
No, shame. Oh shame on you. No, no, okay。
Terrible show right my wife and I binged it。
Last these last couple of days. All right。
Okay, it's a whole idea you meet someone, you know through a wall through the pods and you fall in love, you know。
Um, and it's to test right whether love or not is really blind, right?。
You you see the people for who they are until you meet them physically, right?。
It's a process having sincere hearts that starts from the inside。
But when you try to build a relationship with someone whose heart is not in it, it's really difficult, right?。
It's not it's not a good thing at all. You're giving more and more of yourself and the person is giving nothing in return。
It's horrible。
Or think about maybe you're in a job, right? Maybe some of you have been in a job or in a job。
You show up every day you go through the motions. Yes, it brings in some money。
It pays the bills, but it's not really what your heart is about。
And you dream of doing something different you dream of being filled to your potential doing something that you were made to do。
There is no joy when the heart is not sincere. There is no life in a heart that is not sincere。
A heart that's sincere is also one that's loyal and devoted that doesn't change like the blowing of the wind a sincere heart。
Is one of the most precious things you can give to god in your worship to him。
so church。
This morning。
Our hearts sincere like when you sang those songs just now when you pray for each other。
Do you really mean it from your heart?。
That's the first thing。
Second thing is this with complete assurance of faith。
Complete assurance of faith. In other words, there is no doubt。
Your faith is what gives you the ability to worship god in full confidence。
Right your faith that you're not wondering whether god is is happy with you or you're not wondering whether god you you。
You know you're qualified to approach god。
You don't have to worry about if god accepts us because if your hearts are sincere。
Your heart's also going to be full of faith。
And we base our faith on jesus。
We can have faith because of who jesus is and what he has done for us。
Scripture calls jesus the author and perfecter of our faith。
And so when you feel like your faith is down。
Look to him。
And be assured that because of what jesus has done。
we can。
Enter into worship with full confidence。
Third thing is this it says with our hearts sprinkled clean。
To say something has been made clean means that it was once dirty, right?。
We get this idea right things get dirty a lot. So we have to wash them your body。
Hopefully your hair your teeth your clothes your dishes. These are things we have to wash almost every day。
But what does it mean to have your hearts your hearts sprinkled clean?。
Again, the writer is trying to remind us of what god has already done for us。
We have all different walks of life here from young to old。
But as you reflect back on your life, i'm sure that there's things that you've done。
things that you've said。
Things that you've done to yourself or maybe to others that we regret。
right things that。
You know were wrong sins that you've committed against yourself。
and others。
And sometimes these things can weigh heavy on our hearts。
Things that we're not proud of things. Maybe we find. Oh, I hope nobody ever finds out about these things。
But again。
Because of what jesus has done。
Because his blood has paid the price. He's become the ultimate sacrifice. Our hearts are clean forever。
We are forgiven and we can come to jesus knowing that nothing。
Stands in the way of our relationship with him。
So church the question for us this morning is also this have you allowed your hearts to be sprinkled clean?。
Have you asked for god's forgiveness?。
Do you receive god's forgiveness to wash your hearts clean so that you can be rid of those things once and for all?。
And continue to worship god with a clean。
and and pure heart。
And finally it says this with our bodies washed with pure water。
Now the renewing process doesn't of course end on the inside。
Because if you have been truly cleaned if our hearts are truly sprinkled clean that that should reflect from the inside out。
Right friend was talking about baptism. Just now. We like to call baptism an outward expression of an inward reality。
So saying that our bodies have been washed with pure water is saying that not only have our hearts been changed。
But the way we conduct ourselves what's visible that on the outside has also been changed and well as well。
The way we live our lives reflects the person who follows jesus。
What we claim has happened in our hearts affects the way we actually live。
Right and baptism is one of the best ways to display this on a literal level right in baptism。
We fully submerge a person the old life has been washed clean. They come out。
Symbolically with a new life。
with a new identity in christ。
But that also has to affect the way we live our lives the way we treat other the words that come out of our mouth。
The way we think the way we participate in community。
When our bodies are washed with pure water。
It means we are not ashamed now of our identity in jesus。
And that we strive to live life as a follower of him。
It means that people should notice. Well, this person was once, you know a certain kind of way。
But now that they've become a christian now that their lives have changed now that they've been washed the hearts have been made clean。
They're living in faith. They're sincere people。
I've noticed a difference in this person。
Have our bodies also been washed with pure water。
So these are the characteristics。
And these are these these are things we have to do as individuals. We have to take responsibility。
Of our own relationship with jesus of this process as well。
But then this is the most amazing things if we as individuals have been trained up in these areas。
If we are practicing these things then when we come together as a community。
That's where change can really start to happen。
That's what the community of god has been called to be。
right a community。
walks in these steps。
Hearts cleanse assurance of faith all these things we then hold on it says unswervingly。
to the hope we profess。
For he who promised is faithful。
If we're people that practice these things and we become a community that always holds on to hope。
And hope is probably one of the most important things to this city and to the world right now。
a community that holds on unswervingly means ones that to keep to retain to not bend to stay straight to have a。
solid foundation of what we put our hope in。
Means that if all other people everything else has let go of hope we never will。
We are not the people that will quit when things get hard。
And this is what our people need。
We've we've noticed this in our church service here in yunlong and in wanchai. We've been talking about this right how the city needs hope。
Depression rates are on the rise suicide rates are on the rise. Our students are literally in danger every day。
thinking about taking that。
horrible step of taking their own lives。
People in this city are living as if those all hope is lost。
And when you lose hope you lose ambition。
And you just start doing the bare minimum to get by right? Nobody's really believing these days. I feel like that they'll ever amount to anything。
That the only hope they have is that the things that things will never change。
And so nothing changes。
Students saying what's the point in studying hard if all I ever get is bad grades。
I never i'll never live up to those expectations. So what's the point?。
What's the point of working so hard when my boss never notices me?。
Anyways, I never get the promotions. I never get the raises. I never get even the smallest bit of recognition。
What's the point in me applying myself at work?。
What's the point in working on relationships every time I try to reach out people are not friendly。
Every time i'm vulnerable with someone it gets thrown back in my face。
There's no hope in people changing。
What's the point in having a dream? What's the hope in that where I every single dream of mine has been crushed?。
I've never had anything good happen in my life。
There's so many people in our city that are trapped in this state of hopelessness and you could keep adding to this list。
But what I found out is this I think what is what I what i've been as I read god's word i've been praying。
Why do people lose hope?。
They lose hope because they fail to see that they're actually amazing creations who've been made in god's image。
They lose hope because they don't know what we know that they can approach god the maker the creator at any time in confidence。
And have them know his love his forgiveness his acceptance, but when people don't know that they don't have the hope。
But church, this is where we can come in and make a difference。
Remember, we are a people right with sincere hearts with bold faith cleanse for sin living for jesus。
Which means we follow a living hope, right?。
The hope that we profess is that no matter how hard things get and certainly things do get hard in life。
We have a god who loves us and cares for us and wants the best for us who has amazing plan and purpose for every。
single person that he created。
And so the hope that we profess is that nothing is impossible for the lord。
The hope that we profess is that the future is in god's hands。
The hope that we profess is that we can rejoice even in times of tribulations。
The hopes that we profess is that he will never leave us or forsake us。
The hope that we profess is that jesus loves you。
That he died on the cross for you, but he also was raised back to life defeating sin and death。
And the hope that we profess is that one day。
Jesus will come back to make all things new and we will get to be with him forever。
You see how important hope is church。
So we cannot let go of hope。
Not even for a moment hold。
unswervingly。
to the hope that we profess。
As a community we've been called to keep our grip on hope strong。
Because we need it and the world's need it and the world needs it。
God is faithful and we can always trust in him. We can always have hope in him。
Remember church our hope is in the lord。
Now this is not an easy task。
It's going to take strength. It's going to take courage to keep declaring hope in hopeless places。
And again, this is why we've been called to do this as a community。
Right. We were never meant to do this alone。
God has always called us to be the body of christ a community that lives out hope hope put on display。
Right, which is why coming to yunlong was such a significant thing。
For us as a church family for us to move to a place that we saw needed hope needed light needed life。
And now we've placed ourselves here and the testimonies we've been hearing。
Ivan and chapman and june have been sharing have all been testimonies of speaking hope into a place that didn't once see it。
So we have to continue。
Scripture tells us this let us consider how we may spur each one another on towards love and good deeds。
Not giving meeting not giving up meeting one another as some are in the habit of doing but encouraging one another。
You have you noticed how people。
Change according to the environment that they're in。
Right. Sometimes you can call this mob mentality, right?。
It's it's a real thing when people are in a large crowd they act in certain ways and do certain things。
They they normally wouldn't do if they were by themselves。
Right many times this has negative connotations. I grew up in a british boarding school。
So mob mentality was you know。
Like one you get a group of boys together with a lot of time on their hands and not much to do。
Most of the time they get up to no good right most of the time high chance, you know。
I'll continue i'll tell you stories and maybe not now. Okay. This is being recorded afterwards。
If you want to hear some stories, i'll share some stories with you, right?。
But this mentality can also be used for the positive。
Right because what if we got together?。
And the effect that we had on each other was to do good and awesome things。
What if once every time we got to the get the together as a community our heart was to serve the poor。
To take care of the widows and the orphans and to inspire others to do the same and even more。
Right. This is the reason we've been called like I said to be the body of christ。
This is why god has gifted us in different ways. This is why jesus had a group of disciples。
This is why people have literally risked their lives and even died for the community of god。
Because they know that when we get together there is a strength。
There is a hope that we can do that is not possible just done by one person on their own。
And the type of community that god wants to see is one that spurs each other towards love and good deeds。
Right. It has to flow together church. We can't just keep proclaiming. We have hope we have hope we preach hope we speak hope。
But not do anything to show love to the community。
They have to go hand in hand。
Let me give you an example of my own life。
A few years ago, my wife and I started the journey of being foster parents。
We have two of our own children our biological children now, but in the previous season we were foster parents。
And we share this story often with other people and they ask, you know, why did you choose to be foster family?。
Was it a hard decision?。
And in truth actually it wasn't really a hard thing to decide。
But we chose to be foster parents to kids because well firstly the bible tells us to。
Right. It says look after the widows and the orphans。
And so we thought well, this is literally how we can put our faith into action, right?。
We don't we felt like we didn't even need to pray about it because god commands in the bible to look after the widows and the orphans。
But also we were inspired by others, right? We there was a it was during the justice conference。
we heard a talk by someone who was。
A foster family and they how much of an impact they kept making in the lives of these children。
Other families that spoke to us about the joy that these foster children brought into their lives。
families opened their homes welcoming children in need。
families sacrificing time money energy energy blood sweat and tears to champion the cause of vulnerable children。
And honestly, we didn't know what we were doing。
We had we didn't have any of the answers。
All we knew is that for the time that they needed it. We could provide a loving environment for these kids。
Other people had done it. So why not us?。
And that's how our journey started。
So church our challenge to each other today is this can we encourage each other in the same way。
Like when we gather together as a community。
When you meet with your friends。
In addition to thinking how can we bless each other? I wonder if we could start thinking a different way。
How can we challenge each other?。
You know because I think in general we're pretty good at blessing each other right for sitting together。
You know helping each other out when we're in need。
Celebrating together. These are good and wonderful things and we need to keep doing things these things as we go along。
But my thought is this。
If we really want to grow as a church。
If we really want to grow as a community if we want to change the culture and the society around us。
That's not just going to happen if we just gathered by ourselves all the time if we're just internally focused。
If we want other people to experience the same hope that we so love that we profess。
Then we need to be provoking each other to good deeds。
And yes, this is going to be stepping outside of your comfort zones a little bit。
But true growth only happens when we step outside our comfort zones。
So, how might this work practically?。
It's quite simple. You can be as creative as you want say you're planning your next community group gathering, right?。
Instead of thinking. Okay, what can we do with ourselves? What bible study can we do today?。
Just twist, you know, just flip the question a little bit。
You could ask how can we as a group serve others at this time?。
Well, maybe you've noticed you have a friend who has a particular talent, right?。
You could come alongside them and say hey, you know, i've noticed you're really good at whatever, right?。
Have you ever thought how you could use that to bless others?。
Actually, you know who's tim pastor tim is really good at this。
He's really good at noticing things about people and then calling out of the i've had countless conversations with him。
Where i've been feeling down and out a little, you know。
A little bit wobbly and he's sat me down looked me in the eye and say, you know, allison。
I see this in you as a friend as a pastor as someone who I love, you know。
I've noticed these things that you don't give up keep going。
How about those conversations? Are we are we?。
Are we familiar with those conversations that we can have with each other?。
Or you could say something like this, you know。
You've planned something and invite others along the way chapman had a really good point in his cantonese service about bringing the next generation。
Along right and inviting them to join in in what you're doing。
Let them see what you're doing and let them experience it so they too can learn how to do it for themselves。
But this isn't just going to happen on its own。
It needs some sort of instigation. It needs some sort of catalyst and the more we're willing to do this。
The more natural it become until it becomes embedded as a part of our culture。
Until we just very naturally start doing these things as a community。
And a community that thinks and acts this way is literally one that brings god's hope on earth as it is in heaven。
Everybody can do this。
We all have gifts. We all have talents. It's not a question about spiritual gifts。
We don't have that excuse because god made you for a plan and a purpose. So don't say you're not gifted。
Don't say I don't have the time or the skills together. You can。
And it will be tough。
It will take time。
But nothing good ever comes out of an easy process, right?。
When we do tough things when we do hard things we go through these things together god uses it for his glory。
God uses it to speak hope。
It's going to take time it's going to take effort。
Which is why the writer encourages them to not give up doing this。
Do not give up meeting together as some as in the habit of doing but keep encouraging one another。
Now again on the surface, it seems like this is just talking about gathering for worship。
And yes, of course, there is an element of that in this is in this what you guys have on a sunday。
You know in the cantonese service and the english service people coming together, right? This has been nothing short of a miracle。
And god continues to bring people to the worship services and we praise him for that。
So certainly don't keep up meeting like this. This is awesome. This is great。
It's a special honor and a privilege to this time and this place。
We dreamed of this at one point and now god has answered that prayer。
but at the same time church。
We say all the time here, too。
It's much more than what happens at 90 minutes on a sunday morning。
So it's when it says don't give up meeting each other. They encourage and not it's not just saying don't stop meeting on a sunday。
It's calling us. Don't stop being the church. Don't stop being the body of christ at all times。
Apparently for whatever reasons when the writer was writing this he thought there were some things that were distracting people to stop them from。
being the family in christ。
For them it was a threat of persecution maybe an enticement of worshipping idols。
Details I think are left a bit vague on purpose because there are an endless amount of things that can stop us from gathering。
That can make us give up。
Meeting with each other and encouraging each other。
So as we go about living life like this we too have to ask ourselves the question be very honest。
Well, what are some reasons? What are some threats to us stopping for to us giving up meeting each other like this?。
Busyness is one。
Hong kong is a busy place. There's no denying that。
laziness。
more entertaining plans。
Right. We love double confirming triple confirming and if something better comes up。
We're and then we jump ship and do that instead of things we'd originally planned, right?。
That's just part of our hong kong culture sometimes。
Miscommunication conflict with the community。
Unforgiveness gossip slander the list could go on too。
And。
Like I said, this is a tough thing that god is calling us to。
And moving in the direction where god has called us. It's going to take a level of courage。
It's going to take tenacity. It's going to take grit。
But I will say this like I said all of us are able to take this challenge on if we work together。
Time and time again in courage scripture encourages the people of god to stand firm to be constant to be strong to not lose heart。
Because i'll say it again the truth is nothing good and worthy。
Has ever been gained without going through something tough?。
something challenging。
If it's easy, it's probably not going to be great at the end。
But be encouraged church you were made for this。
Scripture calls us more than conquerors scripture tells us that nothing can separate us from the love of god。
And if the love of god is best displayed through us gathering together。
Speaking and acting in hope towards the community around us then we have been called to give everything we have in order to do this。
so church。
Don't give up。
Being the body of christ that is always。
Always encouraging each other to show love to live out. Hope。
This is an investment that does not return void。
Galatians 6 9 tells us this。
Let us never go weary in doing what is right for if we do not give up。
We will reap our harvest in due time。
So whenever we have an opportunity, let us do good to all people。
It's worth your effort。
This world needs a hope it needs the love that we so。
profess and hold in our hearts and claim to live out as a community of faith。
And we have an opportunity to do that church。
But there is also an urgency to it。
This passage ends by saying this and all the more as you see the day approaching。
All the more as you see the day approaching。
In other words, we have no time to waste。
Right what we've talked about isn't something we can just stick on the back burner and come back to later。
The time to start living this way to start time to start being the body of christ。
That's time to start preaching and living our hope is now。
Is right now because the day is approaching。
We don't know when jesus will return。
Right scripture tells us that his hope is that none of us perish。
But until that day comes and no one knows when that day will be and if someone ever does you don't believe them。
Okay, no one knows when that day is。
The writers of the scripture seemed to think it was in him in the time. Jesus coming was imminent。
Yet it still hasn't happened yet。
So we really don't know。
But what we do know is that we have a task to do at hand。
We have a mission. We have a hope that the city needs。
And so there is no time to waste。
If jesus comes back today。
We can face him and say I lived out that life of hope。
We as a church lived out that life of hope we did everything we did to preach hope and love to the people around us。
So they too could have the same hope that we have。
If jesus comes back in a hundred years, we can say we were faithful all this time until the day。
Jesus came back and said come home now。
We will not stop until we hear the words well done good and faithful servants。
And so church, this is our task。
We have this hope we have this love we have the ability we have the resources。
We have the energy if we all work together as a body of christ。
This hope is literally what the city and the world needs to make a change an eternal change a lasting change。
A hope that will never let them down。
So church will we step up to the challenge today。
The call is to carry on being his love and hope to each other in a world that is hungry to know him。
I pray that we're here in yunlong here in wanchai no matter where we are if you're watching online。
We come together to do this to speak hope to the city that needs it。
Let's pray。
Jesus we thank you for your faithfulness and I know it's my first sunday here today. So that's fresh on my mind and。
but it's just such a。
Amazing thing that you have done lord with this space with this church。
here in yunlong。
And this community that's been brought together lord the people that are sitting here lord, this is no mistake。
Each and every person he has a plan and a purpose they have been drawn here for a reason。
And so lord I pray that as a church as a community we would be known for people that always speaks hope。
We we would be known as a place that when people walk in。
Lost and hopeless they leave feeling encouraged and uplifted。
Knowing that they have a purpose knowing that they have a god who loves them。
Knowing that they were meant to do something greater than just lie flat and live out the rest of the days。
But father I know that we don't do this alone。
And so father give us the same heart and the same mind in this mission that you've given us as a church。
That together we would always be encouraging of one another。
That together we would work out our differences no matter what they are so that we can see beyond。
The difficulties and call out the best in each other。
That we would get to know each other on a level that allows us to challenge each other。
And。
In that way lord you are shaping and molding us you are saving your people through your church。
And that we are waiting the day lord and you come back and and join us。
And reclaim and restore and renew everything once again that true hope will once again。
Be the only thing that's left faith hope and love。
Until that day lord。
Keep us strong in faith in you。
And may we be a community that never gives up on this mission of living for you. Jesus。
We pray in your sweet and wonderful name。
Amen。
