in Jesus name. Everyone says, "Amen."。
- All right. Good morning, everybody. How y'all doing? Good, good. I'm just glad you。
know what "how y'all doing" means. As an American, when I say "y'all," I wasn't sure if it'd。
be like, "What's happening?" Anyways, as Andrew said, I am Promise, one of the pastors here。
at the Vine, and I get to oversee all of the creative items that happens here, and it's。
quite a lot of fun, a lot of joy. I also get to preach here every so often, so let's dive。
into it, all right? Is that okay? You guys ready? Are you awake? Are you hungry? Okay,。
cool, cool. You're awake. Good, good, good. So we're in week four of our sermon series。
here at the Vine on public faith, a series that is designed to help us consider our spheres。
of influence and think around how does the gospel shape and prepare me to be an example。
in the places that I go, in the people that I'm with, in the spaces that I'm in? Public。
faith is an idea of both demonstrating and displaying what it is that we truly hold value,。
what we think is most important, our faith in Jesus. If you were to summarize it into。
one little phrase, it'd be this, the question of how are we living externally what we believe。
internally? All right, that is the question that kind of sits central around this public。
faith series. Pastor Andrew, a couple of weeks ago, would have opened up this whole series。
reminding us of the state of the world, which is chaos and craziness and so many things。
happening and it's a challenging place. To be fair, the world's always been kind of chaotic。
and there's always been a bunch of crazy things happening, nothing really different in that。
space. But we're now heightened and have a heightened awareness of the levels of brokenness。
within our society, within our culture, within our world. And the question that we have to。
ask ourselves is how do we respond to that? Ask Christians, what do we bring to that story?。
How will we live? And I think for a lot of times for us, we look at the big picture and。
it's like, okay, well, how do I live? My public faith is how I live and work and how I live。
when I'm outside and making sure I don't kick the old lady on the MTR if they make me mad。
or things like that. We think of our public faith as kind of the external bit, which is。
true, but perhaps there's a place in our life, an area and an aspect of our lives where we。
hold the greatest influence. Perhaps there's a part of a life that we've overlooked a little。
bit where the way that we live publicly can actually dictate and shape and bring the good。
news of Jesus into a life. This space, of course, is within our families, it's within。
our children. I think it's quite easy to overlook this area, but today we're going to spend。
some time really diving into what it looks like to be a Christian in the home, to have。
a public faith within our families, specifically to our kids. I am a parent of two young children。
and I have to be honest, when I first became a father, I made a deal, not just with myself,。
Jethro and Emma heard it too. I said I would not be the pastor who would use my beautifully。
beautiful children as a demonstration for every sermon intro. And I have not. I will。
not be the pastor that will show you how beautiful my kids are. And they're beautiful. I mean,。
they are spectacular looking. I have held back, but then this sermon series came up。
and Andrew, maybe he knew, he was like, "You know what, Promise? You're going to preach。
on parenting." And I'm like, "Oh, if there's a moment to show you guys how cute my kids。
are, if there's ever the opportunity for me to display my beautiful children, today is。
it." So I've held back for four years, but today the gloves are off. Let's take a look。
at the screen. Look at how beautiful little Elias James Armstrong is and Remy Aloizas.。
Next slide. There's more, don't worry. Hold your applause. Look at this. Look at Elias。
just smiling. Look at Remy just being perfect, little bow in her hair. Keep going. I said。
I held back for four years, guys. We have another slide. Come on. Let's show some more.。
Look at Elias. He serves, he volunteers. You can volunteer too. He could be a model. I。
know it. He plays soccer. And then of course, we have to give Remy her own shout out. So。
last slide. Look at Remy. She can drive. Like, come on, guys. She's only one and she can。
drive a whole car. The girl's incredible. Okay, okay, okay. I'll stop. Sorry. I do this。
kind of making fun of my father-in-law who's probably watching today, Ron. But every time。
he gets up to preach, the sermon isn't about parenting. But he finds a way. He is unashamed。
about making sure his grandkids show up in every photo and every sermon. So every time。
there's a sermon, these kids are there. So this is for you. And I finally get the chance。
to do that today. Anyways, to the actual sermon. Let's get back to the point. The idea of parenting.。
Parenting is such an interesting concept. We are in a world that is surrounded with。
resources about how to raise your kids well. Whether it's podcasts or books or more books。
or diagrams or whatever it is. There's so many ways and people with so many opinions。
and everyone has an idea of what it looks like to raise your kid well. So does our faith.。
You know, the Bible actually gives us not a formula. We don't follow formulas in scripture.。
But the Bible gives us a dynamic framework on what it looks like to raise our children。
well. And it's something we have to hold on to because in light of the craziness of the。
world, we are tempted to either fully withdraw and try to escape, thinking that's the best。
form of parenting. But surely there must be a better way. Right? In light of the chaos,。
some of us think it's best to just try to over-legislate and make the world look a certain。
way and force Christ onto it. Surely there must be a better way to parent. And in the。
light of how the world looks, some of us feel the temptation to just, "Ah, just give in.。
Just do whatever else is doing. Just fall in line." Surely conformity is not what we're。
called to within our faith with our kids. So when we take a look at scripture, we find。
ourselves in that tension because to be honest, all of those things are viable options. All。
of those things, it's natural that we're drawn to them. We have to turn our attention to。
the place, to the author who designed it all. And so we'll look today and see exactly what。
is it that God has designed for parenting. What is it meant to look like? What is he。
hoping that our parenting actually produces? Because parenting in public faith may not。
be the first thing you think of, but there is a way in the way that we parent that we。
can show people who we believe, what we stand up for. So how can the way we parent display。
our faith to our families and those in our communities?。
Well, so in the scriptures, where we find this is found in Ephesians 5 and 6. Across。
Ephesians 5 and 6, Paul does something incredible. He doesn't just talk about one topic. He looks。
at a couple of things, kind of all in order together with similarities behind it. The。
things he addresses first are husbands and wives, and then he follows up and addresses。
slaves and masters. And then lastly, he will address children and their parents. And if。
you look closely, you'll notice that one of each of these pairings has something in。
common with the others. Within that Greco-Roman culture, one person in both of these pairings。
had the upper hand. One of these has the benefit where the other doesn't. One of these has。
more resources. One of these has more influence, more status. One has, and one has not.。
And yes, we're going to look at the details of parenting, but perhaps I don't want us。
to miss what Paul is actually trying to get us to understand here, is that as Christians,。
when we find ourselves in those positions as the one who has in relation to the one。
who has not, how will we respond? Will we lord over them? Will we actively dominate。
them, abuse the vulnerable and the used? Or will we just seek our best interest, passively。
ignoring them and pushing them further down? No, surely the gospel shows us something different。
than that. Christianity doesn't call us to look at the weaker and focus just on our own。
things. And that's what Paul's going to look at in both of these areas. When he talks about。
husbands and wives, the word he's going to give for how they're meant to respond and。
live with one another is this idea of mutual submission, which is unheard of at that time.。
Mutual submission. Again, one is greater, one is less, and he says mutual submission.。
Okay, take slaves and masters. What does he say about those guys? Mutual respect and sincerity。
of heart and serving. Imagine a master serving a slave. Unheard of at that time. This togetherness。
in each of these commands leads us to this mutual correlated responsibility that Paul's。
gospel is centered on. And so when we get to the idea of children, what does he say。
about our children and parents? How does he want them to engage? Well, it says this, "Honor。
your father and your mother, which is the first commandment with a promise, so that。
it may go well with you and that you may enjoy long life on the earth. Fathers, do not exasperate。
your children. Instead, bring them up in the training and instruction of the Lord." Let。
me pray for us. Jesus, we come before you this morning and we ask that these not just。
be words, but we know that all scripture is God-breathed and we know that your spirit。
can help us understand. So we open our hearts and we say, help us understand. Help us see。
your intent. Help us understand your heart. Give us the courage to respond to your gentle。
leanings as we study your word in Jesus' name. Amen.。
So how can our parenting be a demonstration of our public faith? So I grew up with this。
verse and my grandmother used to quote it to me, but let me tell you, I didn't know。
there was a part two. I thought it was only honor your father and your mother. That's。
all she ever quoted to me, right? So I knew this one well. She also quoted it to me because。
it's the only commandment with a promise and my name is Promise. So she was like, "You。
really need to learn this one." No, but it actually says this, "Fathers, do not exasperate。
your children. Instead, bring them up in the training of the Lord." For the record, before。
we dive too deep, it says fathers, but I don't want any mothers turning to their husbands。
and pointing all the responsibility to them, okay? It's not saying only the dads, only。
the males are responsible. This is a joint effort. Paul is speaking to the whole household,。
addressing fathers, but speaking to all of the guardianship. Okay? So we're clear on。
that moms? We're all good? Great. I think it's very interesting what Paul says here.。
Before he tells you what to do, notice what he does. He tells you what not to do. Look。
at the flow of this structure. First thing he does is tells you what to remove. I think。
there's a really deep wisdom in the idea of omission for growth. I think for so many of。
us in areas where we want our lives to be better, the temptation is how do I add more。
stuff? What new steps do I do? What other book do I read? What other podcast do I subscribe。
to? But sometimes it's not about all the doing. Sometimes it's about what you're not doing。
that ends up making the greatest influence. I'm curious how our faith can look to those。
around us. How can it be a public declaration of what we believe? Is there something in。
our parenting, in our families that looks different? Is there something missing in our。
families that looks something like the gospel, that points towards something of Jesus? Our。
parenting will look different if we consider what we need to omit as well. What is that。
omission? Paul says it like this, "Fathers, do not exasperate your children." How many。
of you used the word exasperate this week? Didn't think so. It's not a word we commonly。
speak about. I didn't really know what it meant. I couldn't really even say it correctly.。
Carla and I laughed about it all week. I couldn't say it correctly, kept messing it up. We're。
going to give you some other words to consider. Other versions of scripture would say, "Do。
not provoke your children." We're common with that word, right? Or even more simpler, "Do。
not stir them up to anger." The only other time that this specific verb is used in scripture。
is in Romans when Paul is talking about sin upon sin upon sin that stirs God up to wrath.。
Heavy connotation. What we get from the semantic range, what Paul is saying, he says, "Do not。
remove this aspect. Do not do this." He is saying, "Do not provoke your children into。
a specific state." I think it's very important that we need to recognize that there are things。
that we could be doing that actually assist our kids down the wrong path. There are things。
we could be adding onto their lives, whether it's expectations or hopes and dreams or desires。
that actually lead them down the wrong way. Paul calls parents to consider, "Are there。
things that we're putting on our kids?" I think the honest answer is hard sometimes。
because we live within the world. We don't live in a vacuum. We live within culture,。
and culture has expectations. Culture gives us a pattern of how we ought to live. Sometimes。
cultures and our traditions, we're unaware of how impactful they are. Sometimes the expectations。
of our culture, we subconsciously put on our children, leading them into further anxieties,。
into further despair or insecurities or to not feeling valued, independent of the things。
they can accomplish, specifically here in Hong Kong. We live in a culture that is very。
honor-shame. We want to decrease our shame. We want to hide the things that look bad.。
We want to increase our honor and make sure that our public face looks good. How does。
that lead us into conformity? Well, we don't want to stand out. We don't want to be the。
one set of families whose kids didn't make it into a really good primary school at age。
two. We don't want to be the one family whose kids is not on their way to the UK or the。
US or to Europe or to whatever glorified place that we think is so incredible to become a。
doctor or a lawyer. All those things are great, but we don't want to not have our kids do。
that. That's super important to us. It's the pressure of the culture which impacts。
the decisions that we make. It's oftentimes unseen and unspoken. There's two other aspects。
I think that end up holding very big positions in Hong Kong. This idea of security, this。
idea of success. We desire to be successful. Some of us work 24/7. We don't know what the。
idea of a work-life balance is because to earn, to earn, to gain, to gain, to accomplish,。
to accomplish. Our city is a hardworking city. I'll give it that. We work hard in this city.。
We don't play around. We get stuff done. But man, where's the line between hardworking。
and overdoing it? How does that impact the expectations we put on kids, on our children?。
We want to feel safe from the threat of financial ruin, so we work 24/7. We buffer ourselves,。
we hoard for ourselves the things that we think will make us feel the most safe. This。
is only natural. We all do. It's not like the pastor promises like the good one here.。
We're all guilty of it. The temptation is strong to be self-sufficient, having our own。
needs always met by ourselves, or at least projecting the image that all is well. The。
subject of ourself being secure and successful is one of the biggest motivators in our society.。
What does that conformity oftentimes do when it tempts us? Well, conformity in this case。
often looks like deprioritizing what our faith in Jesus would deem top priorities. Conformity。
often looks like deprioritizing the things that God would say should be the number one。
thing, the things that you don't miss, the things that you prioritize and you put on。
top of the list. Within a culture, in a world where there's so many other tensions and pressures,。
conformity can often look like switching that around a little bit, shifting it a little。
bit to better reach those goals. When we're faced with this type of conformity, the question。
we have to ask is, will we conform to culture, or as scripture calls us to do, will we be。
transformed by the renewing of our mind? We can't live outside of culture. The call is。
not to say that culture is evil, but the call is to recognize the flaws and the brokenness。
that there is in such systems. So we don't escape it, we don't run from it, we don't。
just sit and hurl critiques at it. At the same time, we don't buckle. We cannot conform。
to it, because when raising our kids, they will feel the decisions that we make. We've。
got to be able to raise our kids in environments of unconditional love and acceptance, despite。
the hardworking nature of our city, despite what they achieve. They've got to know that。
they are valued independent of what it does for our social standings.。
So for the Christian parent, here's the question I want us to wrestle with. Are we putting。
expectations and pressures and dreams on our kids that God has not? I phrase it like this,。
referencing Matthew 11, where we're told that we come to Jesus weak and weary and tired。
and exhausted, and Jesus puts something on us. God puts something on us. We don't just。
come to God and he's like, "I'll take everything away and you're fine." No, he puts a thing。
on us. He gives us a burden. He gives us a load to carry, but look at what it says, how。
it describes this burden. Matthew 11 reads like this, "Come to me, all you who are weary。
and burdened, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I。
am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls." Here's where it。
gets good. "For my yoke is easy and my burden is light." There's light and easy, and then。
there's all the things I just described about our culture. Which ones are we putting on。
our kids? We can't put expectations on our kids that God doesn't put on us. We've got。
to be within the world, but not of the world. Understand and relate to culture and traditions。
without outputting its pressures and its expectations on others, especially our kids, because Christ。
didn't come to set us free so that we could put other people in bondage. That's not the。
gospel. Then Paul would say this, after illuminating for us the first idea of what we need to remove,。
what we need to omit, he would say this, "Bring them up." Sorry, instead, "Bring them up in。
the training and instruction of the Lord." First, what he says is instead here, so you。
can read it as, "Do the opposite." All right? So don't provoke them to anger, don't stir。
them to anger. Instead, do the opposite of that. Bring them what? Up in the training。
and the instruction of the Lord. These two words here, training and instruction. Let's。
first break down training. Training is something that we might be familiar with. It's quoted。
as a discipline. It speaks to the idea of a learned skill of control or to balance or。
restraint. The Old Testament would speak of training in Proverbs 22, where it would say,。
"Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is older, he will not depart from。
it." In the New Testament, Paul would contain this idea of training. Train yourself for。
skillfulness. It's a constant theme. Training is important to understand because it's not。
just what you say. It's also what you do. Training is a way of living by example. It's。
a show and tell type of thing. I'll give you a good example. This past Saturday, Friday,。
Thursday, whatever day it was, we were celebrating Jethro's soon-to-be wedding, having a little。
bachelor party for him. And the thing that we did was we went to a spin class. Raise。
your hand if you know what a spin class is. I'm like the people who didn't raise their。
hand. I had no idea what a spin class was. So maybe about two hours before, I Googled。
it and I saw bicycles. And I was like, "This is not for me. I don't work out. I don't exercise.。
This is going to be terrible." So we get to the spin class. We get on our gear, get the。
little shoe things on. I don't know how to click in or anything like that. It's a horrible。
time. I struggle. My legs are tired. My hips are tired now. I'm an old man. 35 is getting。
old, guys. Pray for me. I mean it. I feel old. I've got grades, man. It's serious.。
Anyways, my point being, my point being that the training is necessary to show you what。
to do. We had an instructor, a spin instructor. And she didn't just tell us what to do. She。
didn't just say, "Get on your bike. Click this in." It wasn't all spoken. Actually,。
the way that I learned of what to do was by watching her example. Like she actually got。
on the bike. She actually sweat with us. She kept going, kept doing a little dance or whatever.。
And I was sitting there like, you know, under my breath, angry the whole time. Being honest,。
Nathan could tell you it was a terrible time. But the idea of training is that there has。
to be some form of an example. As parents, it's not just enough to say, "Do as I say,。
not as I do." We actually have to show and make an example of our lives, which is beautiful。
because this level of design by God is so particular. You can't exemplify what you don't。
have. How are you going to be an example of what you don't got? Like imagine if she would。
have gotten on the bike and was, "After about two seconds, I think we would have been done.。
We would have been out." I don't want to be trained by someone who doesn't know what's。
happening, right? But we need you to actually have that example in your life. To be an example,。
you have to first have the same priorities. You have to be in godliness as well to train。
another in godliness. God is calling us as parents to make the time to spend with our。
kids. I'm not going to hark on this too much, but in Hong Kong, we're busy, we're busy,。
we're busy. Everyone is busy. And it's going to be very hard to be an example for your。
kids if we're too busy. And we're busy for lots of good reasons. We produce a lot. But。
if we're going to be examples for our kids, then we've got to actually be there. And we。
can't outsource it to a good Christian school to be the one that trains our children in。
faith. We can't outsource it to K4C once a week to train our children in godliness. We。
can't outsource it to our aunties and helpers because we aren't there. We've got to decide。
what's important to us. We've got to realign our priorities. This is what training looks。
like. The second thing Paul talks about after training is the idea of instructing or teaching.。
Teaching is a pretty simple concept that I think we all understand, so I won't hark on。
it too much. But the idea of teaching means that you do speak. It is about the words that。
you say. It's about a communication method. It's giving instruction on how to operate.。
We know this is pretty important from Deuteronomy 6, verse 6-7, where it says, "These commands。
that I give you from God today are to be on your hearts. Impress them on your children.。
Talk about them." I'm just going to stop there. Talk about them. Impressing them on your children,。
how? Teach them. Speak about it. Let the words of your mouth actually speak of the gospel。
that you align yourself to, that you believe in consistently. Because our kids hear lots。
from us. Conversation matters. If you were to ask our kids, "What do you think mom and。
dad believe just based off of what they talk about?" Would they see mom and dad as a person。
that's really up-to-date on pop culture, really stressing out about the anxieties of the world,。
really good at market research and analyzing? Would they actually say anything about our。
faith? I mean, ask yourself, "What do I talk about around them? What comes out of my mouth?"。
Because out of our mouth, the heart overflows. We've got to actually speak about the things。
that we find valuable. God is calling us to speak. And I think for me, I did the homework。
as well. And I was like, "What would Elias say if you asked him that question?" He'll。
be here at the 2 o'clock, so you can ask him then. But I'm pretty sure he would say that。
he loves photography cameras, that he loves Korean barbecue, which I had twice. It was。
really so good. But there's so many things you talk about, sports and all this stuff,。
and fashion and yada, yada, yada. And I have to consider what am I actually saying to my。
boy if I want him to grow up in Christ? It can't just be my hobbies that he hears me.。
It's got to be the words of God. So I encourage you to consider what it is that you speak。
to your children as well.。
Last subject is the idea of the Lord. Who are we to instruct and train our children。
in? I've already talked about the pressures and the things of society. We know that's。
not what we're meant to train them in, but we have to recognize that we're tempted to。
do that because it's so prevalent. But no, the things that we train our children in are。
the things of the Lord. And so it means that we train and we teach our children about humility,。
about leadership that looks like humbling yourself to serve others. It means that we。
train and teach our children, "Blessed are the poor in spirit." It means that we train。
and teach our children that exploitation of the vulnerable for our own benefit is wrong,。
that profit isn't king, that others matter, that we love our neighbor. We love those who。
look different than us. We love those who have different ideological leanings than us.。
This is the tenets of our faith. This is the expression of God's work in the world. So。
we've got to be able to teach and train our kids in these ways. Are we teaching them Christ。
or are we teaching them culture? In order to bring this to a very practical perspective,。
I've invited two people from our community to come up and share with us some of their。
perspectives and how they live a life. And so I'm going to invite to the stage Ivy and。
Nelson. Give them a round of applause, everyone. Hold on. So Andrew fell off the stage last。
week and we got it in the name of Jesus stage. Be good. Be good. All right. All right. Show。
us again. Okay. So guys, this is Ivy and Nelson, everyone. They are an incredible couple. Why。
don't you just go ahead and give us a brief, you know, one-line introduction of who you。
are and your name. This is our second time doing it, so I feel like Nelson's ready.。
All right. Good afternoon, everyone. My name is Nelson. I'm an early childhood educator.。
Hi, I'm Ivy. I'm Nelson's wife. I'm also a teacher. I think I'm getting hungry. Yeah.。
All right. These guys serve, I've seen them at VBS serving with our kids. I remember the。
first VBS I brought my son to, he was terrified to go by himself, but if Ivy was there, he。
stayed in the room. So I feel like I'm deeply grateful to you. Thank you for that. Yes.。
So I just want to ask you guys a couple of questions just around what we've talked about。
so far to hear some practical examples from what it looks like in your lives. The first。
question being, how do you see your parenting as a demonstration of your public faith?。
It's just how we trained her. Okay. We trained our daughter to be a responsible person. We。
have always said that, and still training, but we've also told her to put God first in。
everything that she does, wherever it's like school or home or anything that she does,。
we try to be a friend with her or supporting with whatever it is she has to do, but we。
always tell her that God really will direct her life.。
And Ivy for you, the second question is in your home, what does it look like to put the。
right expectations first? How do you even discern what is of God and what is not for。
your kids?。
Okay. To know whether it's from God or not, we always pray. There's a lot of praying in。
my home. In our family, if we don't know what to do, or even if we think we know what we。
do, we are doing, it's praying. Right expectation, that's not always easy because we think we。
know what we expect for our kids, but it's always God's plan that always comes through.。
So we always have to pray about that.。
So lots of prayer.。
Lots of prayer.。
That's a good answer. And then I think this one is pretty important. What does it look。
like to prioritize your life in a way that reflects your values that you believe in,。
especially when culture propels us to prioritize being successful or being secure?。
First and foremost, we prioritize Jesus. We prioritize praying and we prioritize family.。
We emphasize on praying because we pray morning, nighttime. We don't get out of the house without。
praying for each other. So it's important.。
Even if you're going to miss your bus.。
Yes, that's true. Yes. It's a struggle sometimes because our daughter is a teenager, and then。
she has strong feelings. Sometimes she has big feelings that we don't invalidate her。
feelings whenever she's feeling something. We don't just shut it down. We say, okay,。
we understand, but don't stay there. God is always with you.。
What about you, Ivy? For you, how do you feel? How does it look like to prioritize your life。
in a way that reflects your values?。
It also means saying no to old ways, old habits, certain music that we don't listen to anymore.。
But he thinks that we still listen to secular music. We still enjoy it. But saying no, like。
no. I'm saying no now. I'm saying no a lot. Sorry. But things that we feel like don't。
honor glorify God, and we have to say no to that.。
Thank you guys. Can we give them a round of applause, everyone? Thank you so much.。
So I have them share, and I share all of this because the idea of parenting is not an easy。
thing. It comes with quite a lot of complications. I feel like most parents are doing their best.。
We're trying extremely hard. So I just want to say, if there be a grace on you, this isn't。
meant to be like a knock you over the hand so you're not doing it right. I recognize。
that it is challenging being a parent, but I think the benefit that we have is that we。
have the Holy Spirit to lean on.。
And something they shared about, we have prayer. Prayer being that silent but probably most。
effective thing we can do. I was in Washington, D.C. this past summer with my brother. We。
were both kind of like, I don't know, talking about our trauma together because it's what。
you do these days. And we're just thinking about, well, how crazy is it that we ended。
up as pastors? He's a pastor in the United States. I'm a pastor here. My dad was a pastor.。
My wife's father is a pastor, and his father is a pastor. There's a lot of pastors in our。
lineage. Anyways, so we're trying to figure out how crazy is it that we're pastors given。
the shady things that we were involved in as kids.。
Like, man, we had so many opportunities to really go off the deep end. Like, sin was。
everywhere. You properly had to flee from it. There were so many countless opportunities.。
I think back to my teenage years, my goodness, my university years, like there is a God because。
I should not be a pastor. I should not be here. There are so many opportunities to just。
completely lose it, completely mess up, to fall into God knows what. And we're both trying。
to figure out because, you know, I'm the older brother. He's the middle child. So I expect。
that of him, but he didn't expect that of me. And we're like, how did we both end up。
in such challenging, like, childhoods and university days, and yet we're both, like,。
pastors now. How do we stay as Christians? What was the secret? And it wasn't our strength。
and our ability to abstain from certain sins or our ability to just walk away or just say。
no. We weren't strong enough for that. We didn't have that discipline. We accredited。
it to, we thought through it, and we were like, what is it that happened so much, more。
than anything in our lives? And it was the way that our parents raised us, specifically。
my mother and her prayers. Y'all, my mom prayed a lot, a lot, a lot. For me to end。
up semi-normal, that woman prayed, y'all, like so many prayers. And I don't think I。
fully understood it. But man, without those prayers, I don't know that I'd be standing。
here today. My brother and I could not be who we are now without the investment of my。
mom's prayers. She prayed every single day at 5 a.m. She would anoint me in my sleep.。
I'd wake up with oil on my head, y'all. What was I dreaming about? I don't know. But this。
is what, growing up in an African home, like the prayer was serious. They prayed and prayed。
because we know that apart from Him, we can do nothing, right? We have to be dependent。
on God. And that prayer shaped everything. I want to share one prayer that was super。
impactful for me, specifically. Every Monday night, my mom and I and my dad would sit up。
at the top of the stairs next to my parents' door, and we would have a Bible study together,。
go through Scripture, read it. I found it terribly boring because I was a kid. But one。
of the things my mom used to make me do is that at the end of it, we would have to pray.。
And the prayer would always be Colossians 1, starting at verse 9, going to verse 14.。
This drove me crazy. I got tired of this prayer. But my mom used to, we would pray at first,。
and then if you look closely, you'll see that a word that's represented a lot here, or that。
is repeated a lot here is the word "you." It's like, "Since we heard about you,。
now we're praying for you, for God to fill you." My mom would take this prayer, and she。
would substitute my name for every "you." So she would pray, "For this reason, since。
today we heard about promise, we've not stopped praying for promise. We continually ask God。
to fill promise with the knowledge of His will, through the wisdom and understanding。
this Spirit gives, so that promise may live a life worthy." And she'd make me pray this。
over myself as a kid all the time. I share this example because there comes times。
where we don't know the right words to pray. We don't have the right spiritual language。
when it comes to our kids, and we just don't know what the next step is. This is something。
that I've adopted in my family, and nothing really makes me emotional, guys, but my kids,。
that's where it hits. And so praying for my children, man, I can pray all day. And so。
I would pray like this. I would say, "For this reason, since today we heard about Elias,。
we have not stopped praying for Elias. We continually ask God to fill Elias with the。
knowledge of His will, through all the wisdom and understanding that the Spirit gives, so。
that Elias would live a life worthy of the Lord and please Him in every way, bearing。
fruit in every good work, growing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power。
according to His glorious might, so that Elias would have great endurance and patience, giving。
joyful thanks to the Father who has qualified Elias to share in the inheritance of His holy。
people in the kingdom of light. For He has rescued Elias from the dominion of darkness,。
and He has brought Elias into the kingdom of the Son He loves, in whom we have redemption。
and the forgiveness of sins." You don't have to be a pastor or a deep theologian, have。
a seminary degree to do this. Perhaps this is your first step. It doesn't have to be。
Colossians 1, 9. That's just what my mom prayed for me, so I pray it for my son. But all of。
Paul's letters, he starts off with these prayers. And imagine if you pray this daily over your。
kids. Or maybe you start with weekly, once a week. Put their name in there. And maybe。
that can be your first step in training and instructing your children in godliness. Amen?。
Let's pray. Will you go ahead and stand with me and we'll pray together. God, we recognize。
your designs. Your Holy Spirit speaks through your word. We just want to hear you. Would。
you open our ears, God? Spirit, in the way that only you do, gently yet clear, would。
you guide us in your truth on the things that we prioritize, on the things that we value?。
Holy Spirit, would you remove in us what needs to be removed? Would you train and instruct。
us so that we might train and instruct our children well? God, I pray for parents who。
are here this morning who are struggling, who are just trying to get a good night's。
sleep because they have young ones. God, I pray that you would be their strength. That。
you would strengthen their hands and their feet. That you would be their rest and their。
hiding place. God, for those of us who had families that were less than ideal and the。
examples laid out for us may not be what we want to copy, Holy Spirit, would you remind。
us that God is a good father? That our first identity is children of God? That you father。
well? Would you turn our eyes to you to see your example and to follow that? For those。
of us trying to find what the next step is, whether it be for our kids or our adult children,。
God, we need your help. We don't want strategies alone. We don't want books alone. We need。
the Spirit of God. We need the power of the Holy Spirit to be what strengthens us and。
what we infuse into our children. So now, Holy Spirit, would you be our strength? Would。
you be our rock? Would you help us build ourselves upon you? Would you be our focus, God? Would。
you speak to us? Would you lead and guide us as we do our best? Would you encourage。
those here who are parents who need encouraging that they're going to be okay and that they。
have help, that they're not alone, that no kid is too lost for you, God, but that you。
work in all things. Lord, would you just give us the discipline and the strength to pray。
for our children, to trust prayer? We ask you this in Jesus' name, amen.。
[Music]。
