Have a seat, have a seat.。
We're really full today,。
so I know there's a bunch of people looking for seats.。
So if you've got a seat next to you,。
maybe you can just put your hand up in the air。
and we'll be able to get our host to,。
there's a seat right here at the front。
if someone wants to take that.。
Yes, you.。
I can see it on your face.。
You're like, "Yes, I want to sit in the front.。
"I'm so excited for Pastor Andrew to spit on me。
"whilst he's speaking.。
"That's so great."。
Just got my splash warning in the front here.。
Hey, we're so glad.。
If you're joining the Vine for the first time,。
we're so glad that you're here with us.。
My name is Andrew, one of the pastors here,。
and it's such a joy.。
I had the privilege of becoming senior pastor here。
on the 1st of November, 2013.。
And as you can imagine,。
it was the day of great excitement for me and my family.。
I'm not sure if it was the day of great excitement。
for anyone else, but it was for me and my family.。
And I was 38 years old at the time,。
and you can now find out how old I am,。
but don't do the math.。
But I was 38 years old at the time,。
and it was a day of joy,。
but it was a day where I was really unaware,。
and in many ways, maybe not ready within myself。
for what I was stepping into.。
I wonder if you've ever had an experience in your life。
where something's opened up for you,。
you've got an opportunity,。
and you work really hard for that opportunity,。
and you kind of get into that opportunity,。
and suddenly things maybe don't turn out quite。
the way you thought it was gonna turn out.。
And I remember that I had been so beautifully prepared。
for this leadership role here at the Vine。
by our two founding senior pastors, Tony and John.。
Tony's in this room right now.。
He's gonna hate this, but I'm gonna point him out.。
This is Tony Reed.。
Tony, could you put your hand up in the air。
so that everybody could honor Tony?。
(congregation applauding)。
And John will be watching online。
as he does so faithfully every week,。
so John, we honor you too.。
But Tony and John, founding pastors here at the Vine,。
they had prepared me over about a four。
to five-year process privately,。
just in terms of us as our leadership,。
but then in terms of publicly,。
about two years before the church.。
So there was a real clear process of transition。
from John and Tony to myself as the senior leader here.。
And so I just honor the fact。
that they did such a great process.。
But the reality was, I don't know if you've been married here。
like you might prepare yourself for marriage。
and then you get married and you realize。
that you have no idea what it is to be a husband or a wife.。
I was well-prepared to be senior pastor,。
but then as soon as I became one,。
I had no idea how to actually do it.。
And in the first couple of months,。
I was overwhelmed by insecurity, by self-doubt,。
by imposter syndrome.。
Anyone ever had imposter syndrome ever before?。
Feeling like I was unqualified。
and in many ways not worthy。
of being in the role that I was in.。
And what was interesting for me is that this was。
kind of sort of catalyzed by a couple。
of actual physical things that were happening in our church。
in those first couple of months.。
The first was that as I came in to be a senior pastor here,。
the church had gone through a renovation project。
of this building a couple of years before then.。
And we had obviously raised a lot of money。
to be able to do that.。
But the reality was, as I stepped in to be the lead pastor,。
we were $25 million Hong Kong in debt.。
And I knew on a kind of general level。
that that wasn't my personal debt.。
I knew that that was just the reality of it.。
And it was something that I had been a part of。
in terms of creating that debt over the years。
of doing the transformation of this building.。
But again, as a 38 year old taking on that,。
that was a big responsibility I placed on my shoulders.。
No one placed it on me other than myself.。
I placed that pressure of, man,。
I'm gonna have to perform really well。
in order for us to get rid of that debt.。
So that was a weight on me in those first couple of months.。
The other thing that happens,。
and it's kind of rough when these things happen,。
but oftentimes when there's a leadership transition,。
there's a shift, not just in the transition of leadership,。
but also in the people themselves.。
And so in the first two months of me leading here,。
20% of the church left.。
20% of the church left.。
Now, I can look back on that today。
and with a bit more wisdom and maturity,。
realize that that wasn't probably a personal thing。
directed at me, but in the moment,。
that felt very personal and very directed at me.。
And I took that reality on my shoulders。
and the pressure began to build inside of me.。
And the pressure was that John and Tony。
had done such a great job and had hand over to me.。
And the worry and the concern I had was that。
in six months, in one year, in a year and a half,。
the vine will go from this great church。
that had been built by these two incredible legends。
to a church that was gonna crumble and disappear。
under my leadership.。
And again, I placed that stress and that burden on me.。
Now, here's what I did over the first six or so months。
feeling that pressure.。
I, of course, didn't tell anyone about it.。
I just sat in the privacy of my anxiety.。
I wonder if anyone's ever done that before.。
Just sat in the reality of the brokenness,。
the privacy of my anguish, my anxiety,。
the imposter syndrome.。
And here was the thing,。
I didn't wanna tell anyone about it。
because I wanted everybody to think。
that everything was fine.。
So I go online and watch sermons。
from back in that first year.。
And here's Andrew up front preaching his heart out,。
but I know that the Andrew inside was in great turmoil.。
And by God's amazing grace,。
the church managed to still grow and thrive。
even though the pastor was dealing。
with some pretty dark thoughts inside of himself.。
And this duality, the privacy of my anxiety。
and the public woo-hoo that I was on a Sunday。
was eating away at my soul.。
And I remember about a year into leading here,。
I remember just this feeling,。
it was like an air bubble was inside of me。
of stress and anxiety.。
And I felt like it was just building and building,。
the pressure was building and building。
and that I had to let it out.。
I had to finally do something about it.。
And I remember I got the courage to WhatsApp my wife,。
Christine, I didn't have the courage。
to talk to her about it,。
but I had the courage to WhatsApp her.。
And I WhatsAppped her and I said,。
we need to go out for dinner tonight.。
And she's like, "Why, what's up?"。
And I'm like, "I need to talk to you。
"about something really serious."。
Now my wife thinks that I'm, I don't know,。
like gonna talk about I'm not happy in our marriage。
or something like,。
so Chris is like freaking out the whole day.。
We get together for dinner,。
we're living in Discovery Bay at the time,。
we're in this very public restaurant,。
this big restaurant,。
and we sit down and immediately I just start weeping.。
In this big public restaurant.。
And not just like a little tear rolling down my cheek,。
but I'm like snot bubbles,。
kind of weeping,。
like just weeping and weeping.。
And Chris is just sitting there going like,。
"Oh my goodness, I don't know what's happened,。
"but this is serious."。
And I said this to her,。
I said, "Honey,"。
I said, "If I fail,。
"if the church continues to reduce in numbers,。
"if I'm the worst pastor that there has ever been,。
"and if I don't do a good job,。
"will you still love me?"。
And that question betrayed the anxiety。
and the faulty thinking that was inside of me.。
'Cause it was like in my mind,。
it was like performance earned love.。
So if I failed,。
then she has the right to hate me like everybody else。
and think I'm a failure and leave.。
But if I do well,。
she should love me.。
But if I fail,。
will you still love me?。
Now, of course she reached over the table。
and she grabbed my hands and beautifully,。
"Of course I love you, honey,。
"I always love you."。
It was so awesome.。
But she then said two things,。
two things that became。
one of those life transforming moments in your life.。
And she said these two things.。
She said, "First of all,。
"you need to remind yourself。
"that success in the kingdom of God。
"is not based on achievement,。
"but faithfulness."。
Yeah.。
(congregation applauding)。
And then number two,。
and this was weird to hear at the start,。
but I kind of followed with her.。
She said, "There are people better than you."。
Thanks, hon.。
Feel so much better now.。
She said, "There are people better than you.。
"There's gonna be some pastor out there。
"who's a better pastor.。
"There's gonna be some preacher out there。
"who's a better preacher.。
"There are people who are better than you,。
"but no one else has been called。
"to lead the vine than you."。
(congregation applauding)。
Now,。
those two things I knew。
because those two things I had held in my spirit。
when I came into becoming senior pastor a year before.。
But in the privacy of my anxiety,。
in the isolation that I had created。
by not sharing with anyone,。
as I had buried the reality of those two truths。
and allowed other thoughts to dominate in my mind,。
it was only after I had decided。
to have the courage to pop the lid,。
to finally be honest about what was going on inside of me,。
that my wife, the person that I loved the most,。
the person that was my trusted confidant the most,。
was able to speak truth。
that was there but deeply buried,。
truth that I had forgotten。
and had kind of isolated myself from.。
She was able to bring those two truths out to me,。
and this was a significant turning point in my life.。
I am not making this up when I say to you。
that I think the primary reason。
why I'm still standing here today and leading this church。
is because of that moment in that restaurant,。
because those words shifted something inside of me.。
And if I had not had the courage。
to finally be honest about what was going on in here,。
I don't think I would have lasted.。
And as she said, it's not about achievement but faithfulness.。
You're called and you have to hang on to that calling,。
even though you might see things going on,。
you've gotta hang on to that calling.。
Those words brought life.。
My most significant journey of personal transformation。
started that evening.。
Now, it didn't happen all quick.。
It wasn't suddenly like, "Oh, imposter syndrome, gone.。
"All that anxiety, gone.。
"$25 million debt, gone," right?。
There was a journey, of course.。
That journey was a long one.。
I went into counseling,。
and I needed counseling to deal with my anxiety.。
I confessed with some brothers, and I have Hudson's here,。
some really good brothers of mine。
who are accountable partners that I pray with regularly。
and confess with them,。
and they stood and prayed for me as well.。
It was a journey of Chris and I in our marriage。
reconstituting what was going on there。
because in that year, I had isolated her。
from some of the deep things.。
So there was a journey of healing,。
but it started because there was a significant pivot。
that took place when I went from a place of private anguish。
to public confession.。
As we continue our journey in personal transformation。
in this theme that we're in over these weeks,。
looking at the book of Ezra,。
and particularly Ezra chapter three,。
where Israel has come out of their brokenness in Babylon.。
They've come back into a place of standing in that ruins。
and the rubble of the old temple that had been destroyed.。
And in chapter three of Ezra,。
we see this beautiful picture of the builders coming out。
with the cornerstones and placing the first stones down。
for the rebuilding of the second temple.。
In that story, we see seven words,。
seven words that I believe for some of you here today。
are gonna be a pivotable transformation moment in your life.。
Simple seven words that I think if you can understand。
the truth behind these words,。
could be a little bit like what it was like for me。
to sit in that dinner and hear my wife speak truth into me.。
Perhaps God's word wants to speak some truth into you today.。
This series so far has been helpful for you.。
If you've been thinking and reflecting。
over the last couple of weeks about the rubble within you,。
if you're praying and longing for that rubble to be renewed,。
my prayer is that these seven words。
would set your heart today alight.。
Let me read this to you.。
I'm gonna jump back a few verses。
so that we can stay connected to the bigger picture。
of what we're looking at.。
This is Ezra three, starting in verse 11.。
And all of the people gave a great shout of praise。
to the Lord because the foundations。
of the house of the Lord was laid.。
But many of the older priests and Levites。
and the family heads who had seen the former temple。
wept aloud when they saw the foundations。
of this temple being laid.。
While many others shouted for joy,。
no one could distinguish the sound of the shouts of joy。
from the sound of weeping。
because the people made so much noise.。
Here are the seven words.。
And the sound was heard far away.。
Let me say it again.。
And the sound was heard far away.。
Father, as we open up this just small segment。
of scripture here this morning,。
I wanna pray that you would do something significant。
for each of us and we thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says.。
- Amen. - Amen.。
Ezra describes this crazy moment.。
We saw it last week, the power that there was。
in a community worshiping and weeping side by side.。
And we taught last week that that is the sound。
of restoration, this invitation to be able to be honest。
with what's happening in our lives.。
And Ezra describes that that sound is so loud,。
it is so powerful that it mixes together。
so that no one can distinguish between the either.。
It's like this harmony of sound is created。
where no one can tell the individual parts,。
but it's just this loud noise.。
And it's such a loud noise that in these final seven words。
of the verse, Ezra says, and the sound was heard far away.。
Now that might seem like a simple thing.。
It might seem like a bit of a throwaway line,。
perhaps when we study scripture, we read things like this。
and we just kind of skip over it quite quickly.。
But I think Ezra is wanting to root us。
into something that is significant in any journey。
of personal transformation.。
Here's what he's saying.。
He's saying, well, the transformation process for Israel。
was a personal concern, it was not a private matter.。
I want you to notice this.。
Ezra's saying the sound of that weeping and worship。
went out far away.。
There were people far from Jerusalem who could hear it,。
who could sense it, who were like,。
what's that noise, intrigue to discover and find out more.。
And while the process of transformation from Israel。
was personal, deeply personal, it was not private,。
which should challenge all of us because so often。
one of the reasons that we use to stay private。
about the stuff in our lives is because it's personal.。
Come on church.。
It's like, I'm not gonna talk to anybody about this。
because it's super personal.。
Like it's super personal and what's going on in my life。
and it's personal to me and so I'm gonna remain private.。
This was one of the most personal moments。
in Israel's history.。
We saw last week that the reason why they're weeping。
is because God has shown them and reminded them。
about their brokenness, about some of the choices。
that they had made in the past and the consequences。
of those choices in their present.。
And when they look at the rubble,。
they're connecting their personal choices in the past。
to the personal reality of what's happening there.。
And it tears them up inside and they start weeping。
because they realize what their choices have created。
in their lives.。
Nothing more personal than that.。
And then there's this other group who are praising。
and cheering and are so excited because they see。
that God's redemptive and restorative work is now at play.。
And they're beginning to worship and they're beginning。
to sing praises and these two things are happening there。
because these two things are the reality。
of what's happening in that moment.。
And as it goes, even though it's incredibly personal,。
they are not trying to sweep it under the rug。
and pretend like it hadn't happened.。
They are exclaiming even the shame of what they have done,。
but they are not ashamed to proclaim that reality。
in their lives.。
It was personal, but not private.。
It was happening to them,。
but there were others who could encounter it.。
It was their experience, but it was not just their story.。
It's fascinating because as I've just shared personally。
out of my own life, I think that's all of our lives。
to a certain degree.。
I think when there's stuff going on in us,。
there's rubble within us that we're aware of.。
When we're going on a journey of healing,。
when we're still feeling sensitive from that brokenness,。
when the trauma is real, when the anxiety is being felt,。
when the fear is upon us, us, all of us,。
our natural temptation, our natural tendency。
is just to try to keep it from everybody else.。
Just try to be private about it, try to bury it,。
try to just kind of push it away.。
And at least on the surface, just try to make sure。
that everybody else thinks that we're perfectly fine.。
We have this danger as humans。
to almost want to do that naturally.。
Just take that pain, bury it as much as possible.。
And as long as I come in on a Sunday,。
raise my hand, sing songs,。
and if anybody asks me, how are you?。
I'm great.。
When actually the reality is inside, I'm dying.。
That there's something in here that I can't wrestle with,。
and I'm just trying to isolate myself from it.。
And it feels like I'm pulling away from everybody around me.。
Now, don't hear me wrong.。
I'm not advocating that you do the exact opposite of that。
at every moment of your life.。
Trust me, it is not wise to put your whole life on display。
for absolutely everybody to see.。
Like, oh, Pastor Andrew, he preached about taking things。
that are private and making them public.。
Okay, well, then I need to tell everybody everything。
that I ever meet.。
I'm gonna put all my dirty laundry out for everybody to see.。
If you go to work tomorrow, come on, church.。
If you go to work tomorrow and say,。
oh, I'm gonna put Pastor Andrew's message。
into application in my life,。
and I'm finally gonna tell my boss。
everything I really think about them.。
You will not have a job, okay, on Tuesday.。
Are you with me?。
So we need to be wise, of course, about how we do this,。
about who we share with, when we share, and how we share.。
We don't swing the pendulum to the other way and go,。
everybody needs to know everything about me。
that has ever happened.。
That's not a healthy place to be.。
But here's the thing.。
As human beings, as Christians, we do the opposite thing,。
the opposite extreme more,。
which is rather than tell everybody about everything,。
we don't tell anybody about anything at all.。
And we push it down, we suppress it, we bury it,。
and we come and we do our thing,。
but nobody actually knows what's truly going on inside.。
And we kind of operate out of that place.。
And here's why we do it.。
And this is so ironic.。
We do it because we think this,。
if people truly knew what was inside of me,。
if they truly knew what I thought about things,。
if they truly knew the things that I've done,。
if they truly knew the pain that I'm wrestling with,。
if they truly understood my thought life,。
well, they wouldn't wanna be my friend anymore.。
They would turn away and they would isolate me.。
They would distance themselves from me.。
I would lose my community.。
I would lose my spouse.。
I would lose everything in my life.。
And so we're so afraid that if we are honest,。
people will isolate us.。
Here's what we do ironically.。
We choose to isolate ourselves.。
Do you follow that?。
So we think if I share,。
people are gonna back away and isolate myself.。
So instead we bury within ourselves.。
We choose ourselves to isolate ourselves.。
And on the surface, pretend like everything's fine.。
And we end up living in a duality that is not sustainable.。
A duality of private, brokenness, pain, anxiety, whatever,。
and public, how are you doing?。
And these two things wear down your soul over time.。
Listen to this.。
When your external behavior operates in tension。
to your internal reality,。
you will always end up having more rubble。
and less transformation in your life.。
Come on church.。
When your external behavior operates intention。
to what is actually true inside of you,。
everything's great.。
No, it's absolutely not.。
And that lasts over an extended period of time.。
Here's what will happen.。
You will basically deteriorate in your mental,。
in your emotional, and in your spiritual health,。
which will also have an impact on your physical health。
'cause we're holistic beings.。
Here's Israel,。
and they're going through some deep personal things.。
Things that are making them weep。
as well as things that are making them praise.。
And here's what happens.。
Those that needed to weep, wept.。
Those that needed to praise, praised.。
In other words, Israel made a decision。
that they were gonna ensure that their external behavior。
actually corresponded to their internal reality.。
So those that were in pain, those that were grieving,。
those that were feeling bad for the sin that had happened,。
those that were dealing with the consequences of brokenness,。
they wept.。
Those who could see the forgiveness of the Lord,。
who saw the start of a new season,。
who were excited that God was gonna do something for them,。
they began to praise.。
And both had space to be who they were.。
Both, could be honest.。
They didn't need to bury.。
They didn't need to be private.。
They didn't need some duality of life.。
The sound of restoration was made loud and clear,。
and it was beginning to change them.。
And here's what their honesty created.。
It created two things.。
First of all, it created an environment。
by which they could have a personal community。
of comfort and healing.。
And secondly, it created an environment。
in which they could have a public place。
of hope and restoration.。
And any work of renewal in your life。
and in a community's life like this,。
if it's truly gonna have effective impact,。
these two things have to be operating in that place。
at the same time.。
A place of comfort and healing,。
a place of hope and restoration.。
And the thing that makes those two things。
is that courage to take what is buried within,。
and with wisdom and being smart about it,。
offer it to those that we trust.。
Let's start with the first one.。
See, Israel understood that as they allowed the space。
for people to weep and for people to pray,。
everybody had a place.。
And that because of that,。
they weren't burying anything inside of them.。
They were opening it up, letting it out,。
getting it up there.。
They were surrounded by this group of people。
who would be able to come alongside of them and go,。
"Hey, I see that.。
"I feel that.。
"I've felt that too.。
"I've dealt with that too.。
"Hey, can I pray with you?。
"Can I stand with you?。
"Can I create space with you?"。
It's really interesting.。
You gotta understand it this way.。
When you come into relationship with Jesus,。
you don't just come into relationship with Him,。
but also relationship with His people.。
This is what church is all about.。
When we are saved,。
we're not just saved into a new relationship with the Lord,。
we're saved into a relationship with one another.。
And God has created gatherings like this,。
church experience in the ways in which we do it,。
in multifaceted ways.。
He's created it.。
And He said, "Look, I'm gonna bless it with my spirit.。
"And although, yes, you can open the Bible,。
"read a word and be encouraged.。
"Yes, you can come in, sing some songs,。
"and I'll speak to you by my spirit.。
"Some of the most powerful transformative moments。
"that the Spirit will do in your life,。
"He will do through somebody else in your life."。
And as we embrace the reality of what God has given us,。
when we have the courage to not isolate ourselves。
from the body of Christ,。
true change and transformation really takes place.。
See, you are not saved。
into a private redemptive ticket to heaven.。
You're saved into a public here family,。
redemptive family on earth.。
And God, by His great spirit and His grace。
and the work of Jesus has adopted us into that family.。
And we now have millions of brothers and sisters。
all over the world.。
Did you know that God has no grandchildren?。
Come on, church, work it out.。
God has no grandchildren.。
He has sons and daughters, His children in a family.。
We're that family.。
It's not a redemptive ticket out of here.。
Some private, "Oh my gosh,。
"now I'm in a good relationship with Jesus, I'm saved."。
Our salvation drives us towards one another。
in this beautiful redemptive family,。
whereas brothers and sisters,。
we get to stand with each other and walk with each other。
in some of the hardest moments of life.。
This is why Paul, when he's writing to the church。
in Romans 12, 15, he says it this way.。
He says, "Rejoice with those who rejoice,。
"weep with those who weep."。
A beautiful invitation for the body of Christ。
to be the body of Christ to one another.。
Later in 1 Corinthians 12, 16, I think it is,。
he says this, he says, "Look,。
"if any member of the body is suffering,。
"we're all suffering with them."。
In other words, don't you understand。
how integrated and connected we are,。
that God has created the church to be a place。
where we rejoice with those who rejoice,。
weep with those who weep,。
where when one suffers, we all suffer,。
and we come together in healing and restoration。
and comfort and joy and love.。
And when people can be honest and say,。
"You know what, this is a safe place。
"for me to let out some of this stuff。
"that I've been bearing and bearing,。
"true transformation takes place."。
Notice what it says, "Rejoice with those who are rejoicing,。
"weep with those who are weeping."。
It does not say when somebody confesses something。
or opens their lives up,。
that your job is to try to just cheer them up。
or that your job is to correct their theology.。
It says your job is to meet them in their emotion。
and sit with them in it.。
Rejoice if they're rejoicing,。
weep if they're weeping,。
find a place of connection and sit with them。
because they need, they've taken all this courage to,。
I mean, imagine if my wife had leant across the table。
and she said, "Just suck it up."。
Or if she'd leant across the table and said,。
"Let me just open up Luke chapter 15."。
(congregation laughing)。
Right?。
But we do that to one another.。
That's part of the reason why sometimes。
we keep things buried and we don't share。
'cause maybe we have shared in the past。
and somebody responded in a way。
that wasn't what we were thinking,。
wasn't what we were expecting,。
and it's hurt us even more。
and we buried and buried and buried.。
We've all had those kinds of experiences,。
but it doesn't stop Paul writing to the church。
and it doesn't stop me standing here before you today。
and saying, "We have to push beyond those bad experiences."。
That just 'cause somebody didn't respond how I thought,。
doesn't mean the next time I do it, it's gonna be the same.。
No, I still have the pain.。
I need someone to pray for me, stand with me, support me.。
Jesus himself did this.。
The night in the Garden of Gethsemane,。
his greatest personal trial and challenge,。
knowing that the cross was just a few days away,。
he brings, notice this,。
he brings all the disciples with him。
to the Mount of Olives to pray.。
But then Matthew tells us,。
he takes his three best friends, James and John and Peter,。
and he takes them a little bit further。
and he says these words.。
He says, "Stay with me, pray for me, pray and guard,。
pray against temptation.。
I need you to stand with me."。
'Cause he's like, he's about to sweat blood.。
He's in a place of deep personal anguish.。
Jesus understood this was a personal journey,。
but not a private matter.。
Come on church.。
And so he demonstrates to us, the son of God,。
that he needed his best friends praying。
and standing with him, supporting and speaking life into him。
to get him through the darkness of that hour.。
Now, the reality is they fell asleep.。
That's a whole nother story.。
That's a whole nother sermon.。
We're not gonna go there right now.。
But do you see what he's demonstrating to the church?。
Some of you here are in the body of Christ,。
but you are remaining distant and private。
from the very people God has placed around you.。
Jesus didn't do it, neither should you.。
Here's the second thing.。
The second thing is, as Israel begins to be honest。
about the reality in their lives,。
as they weep and they worship,。
as they have one another to bring that comfort in life,。
it's not just that healing and restoration。
that happens for them.。
Others are able to now hear and see and go,。
hang on a sec, something significant is happening over there。
and something's beginning to change.。
What is that?。
That's interesting.。
And they can be drawn.。
We don't have time to look at it today,。
but if you follow on with the rest of the story,。
the other nations begin to hear of the transformative work。
that's happening in Israel,。
and some of them get scared and wanna fight back,。
like we'll see next week.。
Others are drawn near and wanting to understand,。
is there really a God who can change and transform us?。
The beautiful thing about a redemptive community。
who are willing to walk in their pain openly。
before trusted people in their lives。
is that it creates hope for those who are a long way off.。
God changes you, not just because he wants to change you.。
He changes you because he longs to change your family member,。
your colleague, the person that you're dating,。
the whatever it might be.。
Our own transformation is always in God's hands。
for him to use as a demonstration.。
Every work of private renewal has potential public power.。
That's again, what God does in a community like this.。
He creates a church and he brings us together。
so that our sound would be heard far away.。
So that when we testify about the transformation。
that the Lord has done in our lives,。
where we stand publicly and say there was anxiety。
and there was pain and I shared with someone。
and they prayed with me and I changed my tune。
and I began to see myself differently,。
I began to see the world differently.。
This is the sound that people outside are desperate to hear.。
The ones who are seeing the world's news。
and they're saying,。
"Is anything good ever gonna come in this world?"。
The one who are seeing their stocks。
and their investments go down and are thinking,。
"Is there anything more to life。
than what I'm experiencing right now?"。
And if the church is making the sound of restoration。
and the only people that can hear it。
are the ones in this room right now, we are not church.。
What's the point?。
Jesus didn't die on the cross。
for the church to be a holy huddle.。
He didn't die on the cross。
so the church could be some thing on the hill。
far away from the world.。
He died on the cross so that the sound of restoration。
would be heard by those far away.。
That the thing that the Lord has done in your life,。
no longer suppressed but spoken out of。
and given hope, brought light into,。
could be the very thing that might bring them new life.。
There is always transformative power。
in the public witness of a private renewal.。
That's a summary of the book of Acts,。
if there ever has been one.。
At the book of Acts at the beginning, Jesus says,。
"You're gonna go from here filled with my spirit。
so that you would be my what?。
My witnesses.。
So that what I've done in you would be seen in the world。
so that others might find hope in that reality.。
There is always transformative power。
in the public witness of a private renewal.。
But any time we keep it all buried,。
we're diminishing the sound。
that was meant to be heard far away.。
I wanna read you just something that Paul says。
in 2 Corinthians as he's trying to kind of picture this。
to his church.。
He says these beautiful words in 2 Corinthians 1 verse 3.。
He says, "Praise be to the God and the Father。
of our Lord Jesus Christ,。
the Father of compassion and the God of all comfort,。
who comforts us in our troubles。
so that we can comfort only ourselves in private。
in our services.。
Who comforts us in our troubles。
so that we can comfort those in any trouble。
with the comfort that we ourselves have received from God."。
When we read a passage like that,。
we think Paul is actually speaking specifically。
about the church.。
Of course, he's speaking into the church,。
but he's using language here where he's saying,。
"Don't you understand that in the church,。
when you experience that comfort and that renewal。
in your life, you are then able to comfort any trouble,。
any person who's got trouble."。
He's not saying just those in church who believe in Jesus。
and sing Kumbaya with you on a Sunday.。
He's saying anyone who has trouble,。
who is struggling when Christ comforts you.。
There is a overflow of that comfort。
that is not just for those that believe in Jesus,。
but it's for those that are desperately in need of Jesus.。
And that as we begin to operate in a place。
of public release to the private renewal,。
the church becomes the church.。
One of my favorite stories in Jesus' ministry。
is this moment where Jesus is walking through the crowds。
and the crowds by this point,。
he's been ministering for some time。
and the crowds have grown and grown and grown.。
And in fact, he's still in Galilee。
and he's still surrounded daily by these crowds.。
And everybody's trying to get a piece of Jesus.。
Everybody's trying to clamber onto him,。
press around him, try to get a hold of him.。
And in this story, a woman who had been bleeding。
for 12 years, the kind of bleeding that meant。
that she was ceremonial unclean all the time,。
meant that she was cast as an outcast in her community.。
The sort of bleeding that you would wanna keep。
very, very private, not let anyone know about it,。
not talk about it with anyone.。
This woman, she hears that Jesus has done miracles。
around Galilee and she's heard the stories。
that he might be the Messiah。
that the Jewish people have been longing for.。
And the Bible tells us that in faith,。
she decides this one can heal me.。
I believe that he is the Messiah.。
I believe he can set me free.。
And in that faith and belief,。
she decides to press through the crowds。
so that she could just get a hold of Jesus.。
Let me actually read this to you from Luke chapter eight.。
And we're gonna pick up the story.。
Says this, "As Jesus was on his way,。
"the crowds almost crushed him.。
"And a woman was there who had been subject。
"to bleeding for 12 years, but no one could heal her.。
"She came up behind him and touched the edge of his cloak。
"and immediately her bleeding stopped.。
"Who touched me? Jesus asked.。
"When they all denied it, Peter said,。
"Master, the people are all crowding。
"and pressing against you.。
"But Jesus said, no, someone touched me.。
"I know because power has gone out from me.。
"Then the woman saying that she could not go unnoticed。
"came trembling and fell at his feet.。
"In the presence of all the people,。
"she told why she had touched him。
"and how she had been instantly healed.。
"And then he said to her in the public。
"in front of everybody,。
"daughter, your faith has healed you.。
"Go in peace."。
There's this moment where she has the audacity of courage。
to reach out and as he's walking by,。
just grasp the hem of his cloak.。
And Jesus stops immediately.。
And as she's doing this, as she grasped that cloak,。
she's immediately healed.。
It's really important that you understand this.。
She's immediately healed.。
It's not like she's gotta go through。
some journey of healing.。
In this particular moment,。
she's instantly, immediately healed.。
Jesus stops and says, "Who touched me?"。
To which Peter, in the blunt way that Peter always is,。
is, "Dude, everybody's touching you."。
Like, can't you see the whole crowd around you?。
Like, are you mad, Jesus?。
Like, everybody's pressing in on you.。
Everybody's, what do you mean?。
Who's touching?。
"We're all touching you," Peter said.。
And Jesus is like, "No, power has gone out from me.。
"Who's touched me?"。
Now, notice this.。
He's doing this and he's placing this woman。
in a place of decision.。
She does not need to come forward for further healing.。
She's already received our holy.。
She's instantly healed.。
In other words, she's got what she's come for.。
So she could go, "You know what?。
"I'm just gonna privately go back into my little hovel.。
"I'm gonna retreat from this moment.。
"I don't need any more of Jesus.。
"He's done what he needs to do in me.。
"I could get away.。
"I'm just gonna slip away."。
Jesus is like, "No, no, no.。
"You've received your healing,。
"but there's something else now that I want you to do."。
And she realizes that she can't escape.。
So she comes forward and she begins to testify.。
We don't have the words.。
I wish we did.。
But she begins to testify about what she believed Jesus was。
and the faith that she had and the touching of his cloak。
and how she had been instantly healed.。
And you can imagine the other people standing around。
and they're going, "But I've been touching him。
"and I haven't been healed."。
Now, this is why Jesus does what he does next.。
This is so cool.。
He calls her forward in front of everybody for two reasons.。
One, her bleeding has ceremonially made her unclean。
in her community.。
So by bringing her forward and her testifying to her,。
her healing, Jesus was restoring her back to her community.。
You can go back to this community.。
You can now grow with this community.。
They can accept you again.。
So this is a public restoration for her。
back to her community.。
That's great.。
But that's actually not the main thing。
I think Jesus is doing here.。
There's this other thing.。
He's now getting her to become the main preach point。
to the crowd.。
Because the crowd is thinking we're touching Jesus。
and nothing's happened.。
She's touched Jesus and she got her healing.。
Why?。
And Jesus says, "Go in peace。
"because your faith has healed you."。
Jesus is basically saying there's a difference crowd。
between touching me without faith and touching me with faith.。
And he uses her testimony to be the thing。
that he really wanted to say.。
It wasn't actually about her healing,。
as amazing as that was for her.。
That's great.。
But it was this teaching point。
that her testimony was releasing.。
Some of you in this room,。
your journey of personal transformation。
is going to be a testimony。
that the crowds around you need to hear.。
That Jesus wants to say and do and operate。
in the people around you in ways。
that are gonna be totally transformative in the future。
as you take the courage to testify。
what the Lord has done.。
We have to be wise about it.。
We don't go bashing people over the head with a Bible。
at every opportunity we have.。
As you trust the Lord,。
he will open up avenues for you to come forward。
and say, "This is what happened to me."。
Some of you in this room,。
your journey of personal transformation will only begin。
and the pivot will happen for you。
when you stop living the duality life。
of private anguish that no one knows about。
and public everything is fine.。
Some of you this week,。
you're gonna be taking a major step of courage,。
but a major step to the renewal。
that the Lord wants to do in your life。
by saying, "I am tired of living as two people."。
You need wisdom as to who to share with.。
You need to work out what the Lord wants you to do。
and how to do it.。
But there is someone in your life。
that the Lord will bring to your mind。
if you pray that prayer honestly。
that you should open up to this week.。
And in doing that,。
you are exposing what the enemy has kept in darkness。
and you're allowing light,。
the light of Christ to flood into it.。
As we confess our sin,。
as we confess our brokenness,。
as we even confess just the hurt and the pain,。
God heals us through one another.。
So some of you this week,。
that's the pivot point for you。
to stop saying, "I don't wanna live like this anymore."。
I'm gonna have the courage to say, "I need help.。
Would you pray for me?。
Can you understand this?"。
And I wanna encourage you that if you're the person。
that person turns to,。
rejoice with those rejoice。
and weep with those who weep.。
Just be with them.。
Be with them, pray for them,。
stand with them, love them.。
And some of you here,。
you've got a testimony to say.。
You've got a proclamation of praise.。
You've gone through a private renewal。
and now is a chance that God might be explaining。
and putting before you for some public proclamation。
of what's privately happened within you.。
Look and pray for the opportunities。
and we will see many people respond。
to the sound of restoration.。
Amen?。
Helpful?。
All right, let's pray.。
Father, I just thank you so much。
for each person here this morning。
in this journey of Ezra and transformation。
that we're on here at the Vine.。
And as you just quieten your hearts。
and as you bow your heads,。
perhaps for some of you,。
you know that there is immediately an area of your life。
that you've kept very private.。
As I've explained in the message,。
we do that for many reasons, fear,。
sensitive somebody would know they would reject us,。
perhaps just the shame of what it is that we're carrying。
and we've buried it deeply.。
And we thought we could get away with it.。
We thought we could live a double life.。
We thought that that would be fine,。
but we know it's wearing on our soul.。
We know that our mental, emotional,。
spiritual life is deteriorating.。
And just like me a year into being senior pastor,。
there's this bubble coming up out of you。
and you're like, I can't hold this anymore.。
I'm so tired of it.。
I'm so tired of living a double life.。
I wanna pray that if that's you here this morning,。
whether online, in this room, in the overflow,。
I wanna pray now that the Holy Spirit would show you。
the person for you to share with.。
As you're in this moment,。
the person for you to share with.。
And I pray that He would give you the courage。
to do it this week.。
And I wanna pray the blood of Jesus。
over every conversation,。
over every exposing of the darkness。
because the enemy will not like it.。
And as you leave here today,。
you might be feeling in this moment,。
yeah, I wanna do it.。
And then you'll leave here in a moment。
and you'll suddenly feel like,。
oh gosh, that was just a thing in the moment.。
Don't allow the enemy to cause you to retreat again.。
If you're feeling like this is your time to be open。
in the week or the couple of weeks ahead,。
don't let the enemy whisper back into you。
to retreat you again.。
I pray Lord for the blood of Jesus,。
a protection over every person here。
who wants to have one of those kinds of conversations。
in the week ahead.。
And Lord, we pray for the fruits of the love。
and the light and the forgiveness。
and the grace of Jesus over anything。
that has been kept in darkness.。
And we pray this now in Jesus' name.。
Lord, I pray a releasing over your people.。
And Lord, for those people。
that you're raising a testimony in.。
Lord, I wanna pray that they would see the avenues。
and the people that they can share with.。
Lord, we pray that those who are currently in our city。
who are far off,。
Lord, we pray that they would hear。
the sound of restoration in your church.。
Lord, we pray that in our spheres of influence,。
in our families and the people around us, Lord,。
that as we begin to proclaim the goodness。
of a God who has set us free,。
that we would see others say,。
I wanna learn more about that.。
Why do you have so much peace?。
Why do you have so much joy?。
And that they would go, take me, bring me,。
share with me, help me, let's go out for coffee,。
let's talk about this more.。
Lord, I pray that you would release this church。
into the city with the hope of the gospel。
and the redemptive power that there is in our testimony.。
Lord, thank you for what you've done in private renewal.。
And we pray for the transformative power。
that happens in public witness.。
Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says.。
- Amen.。
- Would you stand with me as a community。
and let's just join in a place of worship before the Lord。
as we thank him for what he's doing in our lives.。
(upbeat music)。
