Well, thank you, Benedict.。
Well, I hope that this message is not so much about us.。
It's actually going to be a message for you。
as we share how we embrace limits。
as well as to break through our limits.。
My name is Sydney, and I wish you,。
on behalf of my family who are here,。
a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.。
I hope you have all received your Christmas gift.。
I received mine.。
Yeah.。
Okay, oh, sorry. I showed the logo.。
It was purchased very happily by my wife,。
given to me, and I gladly received it,。
and it was paid through her credit card,。
which is a supplementary card under my account.。
And, yes, so she joyously gives.。
I gladly receive, and I will pay the bill.。
[laughter]。
Well, we are coming to the end of the year,。
and we just have to learn that there are limits in life,。
and time and season are one of the many limits that we encounter.。
So today, we are actually sharing on this topic of embracing limits。
as well as overcoming limits,。
and I call it the gift of limits.。
Now, there were research studies that showed。
that young children who are playing in the playgrounds。
with very clear boundaries, like fences,。
they were actually more active and energetic in their play。
in these open fields than those without defined boundaries.。
So for that purpose, a fenced playground。
allowed children to be even more playful.。
They explore all the equipment.。
They were able to interact with peers much better。
than those in unbounded areas,。
who they tend to just take it close to the school buildings.。
So there's, in that sense, a dual sense of perceived safety。
as well as enhanced exploration.。
When we know that there's a limit within which it is safe,。
we're actually more bold to explore.。
Now, the Bible has a lot to talk about boundaries.。
The passage I love really well is Psalm 16,。
talking about how God keeps us safe,。
because in him we took refuge.。
In verse 5, he says, "Lord, you alone, you alone。
are my portion and my cup.。
You make my lot secure.。
The boundary lines have fallen for me in pleasant places.。
Surely I have a delightful inheritance."。
And my daughter loves that.。
I was sharing with her as she travelled back from London to visit us.。
We talk about our inheritance distribution, and she loves that.。
(Laughter)。
Well, we want to have set boundaries in life,。
and we also want to know how to anticipate our future.。
Years back when I was practicing in Singapore,。
I had a difficult encounter.。
I was a medical profession,。
and one of my patients who had a progressive downhill course.。
So I was hoping that I would find maybe a certain occasion or chance。
to share with him the good news of Jesus.。
But as I procrastinated, the chance never really came,。
and one odd Saturday afternoon, he just left into a coma.。
So in the physical realm, I really find that, well, I'm very, very limited。
in what professionally I can offer.。
Very limited options.。
But then there may be possibly certain limits that I could break through.。
So I had that stirring in my heart,。
but I want to share a word of comfort with his wife,。
who is actually Mandarin-speaking.。
So at that time, I tried frantically to call my church pastors,。
ministry leaders, small group leaders.。
So everybody is busy on a Saturday and Sunday in church.。
And in any event, our church was actually an English-speaking church.。
Very few of us speak Mandarin or Chinese really well.。
So, well, the pastors, as usual, very wisely advised us,。
"Well, why don't you go ahead and share some comforting words with the family?"。
So I frantically grabbed my wife,。
and we went together to the hospital to minister to the wife.。
So that was my very first time ministering to someone in Mandarin.。
So that was a breakthrough for me, despite all the limitations.。
Of course, down the road, we moved back to Hong Kong.。
And all these 18 years whereby we have been worshipping in the Vine Church,。
we see the mighty hands of God moving in amongst us.。
But almost 10 years ago, while we were still very much an English-speaking church,。
we began to run Cantonese Alpha.。
And that was one of the first Cantonese Alpha retreats in the last act,。
where you may be able to see some familiar faces.。
Well, I believe that God has somehow divinely brought me and my wife, Pastor Vivian,。
to serve in the Vine.。
And over the years, we saw the birth of both the Cantonese。
as well as the Mandarin-speaking communities.。
And what started as a small home group of 10, 20 people。
became a community of like 60, 70 people.。
But more importantly, we do believe that there is more to come.。
There is more to come.。
Well, in fact, my son's middle school last time in Singapore had this school motto.。
It's Anglo-Chinese school, Yinghua Zhonghe.。
Well, the school motto is something like this, "The best is yet to be."。
But it's followed by, "To God be the glory."。
The best is yet to be when it's in line with God being honoured and glorified.。
So what is this more?。
We've embraced the River Vision for the past six, seven years.。
Well, Yundong was in fact birthed as part of this vision,。
and the dream came true three to four years ago.。
I must say it was one of the greatest joy of my serving in the Vine all these years。
to see the Vine Yundong blossom and continue to grow.。
But I pray that this will continue to inspire us to see that we are actually something.。
We are part of an even greater plan that is unfolding.。
So in fact, some of you have heard from the announcements, from Wan Chai, from here,。
that the leadership of the Vine, myself and Vivian, are sensing a call for us to move out。
and to plant a fresh kind of missional Vine church to serve the future northern metropolis area of Hong Kong.。
Northern metropolis.。
By the way, Yundong is actually part of the northern metropolis.。
Now this is very much in line with the vision of the River Initiative that we want to carry on.。
But we do want to focus on sharing this love of Christ with Chinese speakers,。
Cantonese and Mandarin included, in a way that will encourage real and deep spiritual growth。
and to build loving, caring, Christ-centered communities.。
So you may want to ask, why? Why northern metropolis?。
Well to start with, the very motto of the Vine is to bear fruits.。
Every branch that does bear fruit, he prunes so that it will be even more fruitful.。
So the Vine is destined, you are destined, to bear more fruits in your life.。
But then still, the question, why northern metropolis?。
Well as you all know, that it will become the fastest growing areas.。
And the area actually includes the Shanghai, Fanning, Yundong, Tianshui,。
but then also new zones like Kutong and Shantin.。
Now over the next decade, it's estimated that there will be one million new residents moving in,。
bringing the total population to up to 2 or 2.5 million.。
There will be new families, professionals, people from Hong Kong who are reallocated from their original residences,。
and of course some other new residents from mainland China.。
So yet, on this new area of development, there may be very few churches.。
Yes, we have Yundong, and we have other churches, but there are never enough churches.。
Some places are in fact a blank state, and that would be a great and tremendous opportunity for the gospel to take root and to bear fruits.。
Well, lots of work for Yundong, as well as the new church plant.。
And there will be new neighbours, people who have as yet to know Jesus,。
but they are loved by Jesus as much as we are loved by Jesus.。
Vine, Vine Wan Chai has this restoration ministry where Vivian is heading.。
It's interesting that while they are offering classes, originally in English, then it was extended to Cantonese,。
we saw the hand of God moving into Mandarin-based ministry.。
So for this outreach to especially Chinese-speaking people, including both the Cantonese speakers,。
as well as the Mandarin speakers, we were able to testify and witness the transformation of lives.。
People are inviting their friends, their families to come to know Jesus,。
and we also even see reconciliation between the Cantonese and the Mandarin speakers.。
In fact, when we were travelling in New Zealand doing a new video series on restoration,。
we actually have a special purpose in mind because we want to translate the English-based videos。
to become with Mandarin subtitle, with a crew of people who are actually from China to help us with the production.。
So we can see, well, there will be new ways that we will be able to reach out to our Chinese-speaking friends.。
In Mark 4, it records a mini-revival in the small town of Kapok Noon,。
where Jesus and the initial team really ministered to the people, healed the sick, cast out the demons, and performed miracles.。
But then Jesus said to his disciples, "Let us go over to the other side."。
What does it mean to go to the other side?。
Well, where they are based, they have a comfortable zone to continue to grow and minister.。
Where they are moving on to is a new and could be potentially hostile area,。
a lot more dominated by Gentiles according to the geographic distribution.。
But Jesus called them to venture.。
Likewise, our calling is to cross over, to go further, to step into a new land, uncharted areas.。
Do we dare to believe that God is leading the vine and all of us here to these kind of uncharted areas of ministry。
as part of God's kingdom's advancement?。
But then we want to narrow our reaching out to local Cantonese speakers,。
as well as Mandarin speakers who are settling into new land.。
And then we want to start now, that we would be able to have a base somewhere along what we call the East Rail Line。
that could include anywhere from Tai Wai, Sha Tin, Tai Po, Fan Neng, or Sheung Shui,。
as a base so that we would be able to move into the northern metropolis in due time.。
Well, in fact, our family have made a small boat move.。
So I used to live on the Hong Kong Island side.。
In fact, if I'm to go to work, it took me about three minutes.。
Yeah, because I lived in the hospital quarter.。
So I would take a lift, I walk, I take another lift, then I'll be in my workplace.。
So as I moved, I typically would take around 40 to 50 minutes to go to work on a daily basis.。
So every night I hope that I would not be caught by anyone from the hospital, just in case I need to travel back.。
But now that we are living in the new territories, we are 20 minutes from the northern metropolis.。
So this morning I took 20 minutes, I passed by Tai Po, Fan Neng, Sheung Shui, Koo Tung, here I am in Yunnan.。
So that allows tremendous possibility.。
But the most important of all is we want to live amongst the people they want to serve.。
Yeah, as simple as that.。
Well, we just pray that as we commit and as we avail ourselves, God will honour our commitment.。
Notwithstanding that we do have our own limitations.。
Well, the future church plant may be starting small, but as we plant the seed, may God continue to grow lives.。
Are we the best person to serve?。
Well, we don't really have too much connections with local churches here in Hong Kong.。
We have very little understanding of the religious sentiments in Hong Kong or in China.。
We didn't even have the full Christian vocabulary or prayer language in Cantonese or in Mandarin to start with.。
And our Mandarin has much room to improve.。
But looking back now, I realise that these limits are exactly where God was inviting us to surrender.。
What I saw as a limitation, God wants us to embrace as an invitation.。
Limitation. Invitation.。
But the invitation is for his presence to lead, his strength to see us through, and to make known his heart for the Chinese.。
Not by our own ability, but by his calling and by his grace.。
And now as we step into this next uncharted chapter as a church,。
where we want to reach out to the Chinese population in new context, in a new era,。
not from a place of confidence, but from a place of love, of authenticity and vulnerability.。
Well, God's kingdom, of course, is growing in all fronts, and divine's work is not only limited to one language.。
But embracing our own limitations, we actually decided that we would stay focused and narrow down to just the Chinese speakers.。
So that brought us to the discernment of knowing our own limits.。
So there are two kinds of limits.。
Well, we have to ask, what are the limits that I have to submit joyfully as God's invitation to trust him?。
On the other hand, we may also need to ask, what are the limits that I need to push through by faith,。
so that others can see him and I can be the very instrument to have him manifest in our life.。
So on this end, while we accept, embrace limits, those limits actually protect us, keep us humble, and help us grow in wisdom.。
Say, for example, in my own situation, I still got to work to support the family.。
Yeah, sorry. You are on your own most of the time in ministry.。
My work as a medical professional is demanding and often draining, both physically and emotionally.。
And that I myself have a medical condition that would need regular treatment.。
And that a bivocational ministry is a brand new entity in divine.。
Well, we all need to be aware of our own limits and need to embrace them.。
So you may want to consider your own limits.。
So what are the limits of your personality and temperament?。
I'm an introvert and does not naturally connect well with new friends.。
What are the limits of my current season?。
So some of us may need to look after younger kids.。
Others, they may have to look after their senior parents.。
Well, we have physical, emotional challenges or external crisis that could alter our own life.。
And there are even seasons whereby we just face difficulties or even struggles in our financial situation.。
There may be seasons that you need to be intensively working or studying.。
And yet there are other seasons that you need to step back from responsibilities and grieve a significant loss.。
What are the limits of your physical, emotional, and intellectual capacities?。
Well, but we just need to know all our capacities are also a God-given limit.。
I need time to read, to pray, and to be alone.。
I cannot work or pray for five or six hours like I used to be able to.。
What are the limits of our time?。
Well, all I know is that we only have one life to live.。
But we can't do all the things that we want to do.。
However, the scripture reminds us of important examples whereby we need to learn to embrace the limits.。
It was within the limits of the five barley loaves and two fish that Jesus was revealed as the bread of life.。
It was within the limits of Moses who was slow of speech and 80 years of age who had led millions out of Egypt.。
We remember the widow who gave her all, the two corns, because of the limits of her financial resources.。
But in Jesus' eyes, she has given far more than all the others.。
So if these biblical heroes had rebelled against their own limits, their limited resources, their limited abilities,。
or limited family situation, they would have missed out what God wanted to do in and through them.。
So I would say limits are often God's blessing and gifts in disguise.。
Limits are just God's gifts in disguise.。
We only see a very, very small part of God's plan at any point in time.。
What he does in and through our limits is more than we could ever accomplish in our own strength.。
One of the indicators that we are maturing spiritually is that we can live joyfully within our God-given limits.。
I'm learning to embrace mine in this new season of serving.。
You may have your own limits, and yes, even our church has limits in resource, language, or cultural preferences.。
But that does not stop us from offering our talents, our resources, and our time to love God and others.。
From a very different perspective, a second type of limit offers a different kind of gift,。
that God wants to use these gifts to manifest his power and to do miracles.。
Breaking through these limits will be exciting.。
We have our prayers answered. We see life transformed.。
The Bible is actually full of stories that God's servants break through limits with his power.。
Even as we ponder on, well, what are the limits that God is asking me to overcome with faith?。
Are there areas of immaturity that God wants me to grow beyond?。
And how can I break through my limits by leaning on faith?。
So the Bible mentions numerous examples of how his servants go beyond their limits.。
The twelve disciples, for example, were not the most educated or most equipped experience,。
yet they had a monumental movement.。
Peter, distinctly, was famous for his denying Jesus for three times.。
But he was the very, very spoke person for Jesus upon the Pentecost,。
where he led 5,000 to come to know him.。
Timothy was known for being shy, but he was tasked to lead a very challenging church in Ephesus.。
And in this Christmas season, we'll remember Mary.。
Mary was a teenager from a poor family, living in a very small town of Nazareth,。
with maybe 100, 150 residents.。
And she was pregnant out of her marriage.。
And this is scandalous. She could have been stoned to death.。
Yet, she was God's chosen instrument to give birth to Jesus.。
Indeed, Mary said, "My soul glorifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior,。
for he has been mindful of the humble state of his servants."。
So now we are facing a new adventure as a community, another limit,。
for me as a servant and for us as a congregation to break through to a land。
that we are to enter with courage and boldness.。
And the people are waiting to be reached out to,。
only if we can humble ourselves to share life with authentically and in love.。
While we can all embrace our limits in a church,。
embracing limits as a church congregation is both vital and exciting.。
It's vital because, well, through these limits,。
we discover the unique and creative ways that God moves amongst us.。
It's exciting because it challenges us to build a new culture of discipleship,。
one that celebrates limits, but also finds ways to weave them into our daily lives.。
Well, what are some of the limits of a church that we can anticipate?。
Well, Divine, especially in Wan Chai, is a very transit congregation.。
People move in, people move out for numerous reasons.。
But then we are blessed. We are blessed with the richness in culture.。
We are an English-speaking congregation by and large,。
and yet somehow we are able to reach out to good numbers of locals.。
Divine at Yuen Long may be limited by staff,。
but you are blessed with many committed volunteers.。
And you may soon be limited by your seating capacity,。
but that's a good problem to have. You're blessed to grow.。
And Divine at the future Northern Metropolis may be limited by venue availability.。
We have been searching for venues, so do give us a ping if you have good sites to suggest.。
But we remain committed and open to explore different opportunities。
and new model of doing church gatherings.。
So we may be doing Monday to Sunday churches just to cope with the venue limitations.。
And we are also very limited by staff. We have one staff and a part-time staff.。
But we have great and committed volunteers who commuted long distances。
just to join us for our Sunday community gatherings.。
So as we embrace the limits of staffing, we are also yearning for breakthrough.。
Not that the present volunteers double up to do overburdening,。
lest they are burnt out, but that God would bring in extra right people to be part of the team.。
So in fact, Jesus encouraged us to ask for more workers.。
See, the harvest is ready. Pray to God the Father to send more workers.。
So that could be the breakthrough that we are looking for.。
So at this time, I just want to share this very short story by Tohkin,。
who was the writer of the series, Lord of the Rings.。
So at this time of writing, it was actually before he completed the Lord of the Rings series.。
So he was actually coming to a grip with his limits and the incompleteness of his work as a writer.。
So he has this very short title, Leave by Nego.。
So the story is something like this. So this gentleman, an art or the painter,。
so he had the passion to paint a beautiful landscape and with a huge tree,。
magnificent tree as the anchor point of this landscape.。
The only problem is that Nego is so distracted to paint the whole tree.。
He was only able to concentrate on one of the leaves.。
And then he was distracted by his neighbor by the name of Parish.。
And he kept on being needed to avail himself to help out with the mundane of life.。
And he also had a very reluctant journey that he needed to embark on.。
So as he pushed back, he tried to work on Leave,。
but then he was not able to accomplish much beyond that Leave.。
So one odd day, he actually had to start this journey that he doesn't want to start.。
And you can guess the journey is death.。
So he passed on and when he woke up to a new realm, a new reality,。
he woke up, he rode the bicycle and he traveled.。
And lo and behold, he saw the tree. He met Parish.。
And he was saying, "Wow, all my life I have envisioned drawing this magnificent landscape。
with the big tree, with the branches opening up, flowing in the wind.。
Now it is a living tree and it is finished.。
My tree is finished."。
So that would be an encouragement for us.。
Because indeed, sometimes we felt that with all our limitations,。
we have only accomplished so little.。
Maybe just one leave.。
But God has already had the full picture in mind.。
And over on the other side, we'll see the full picture.。
Nicco was able to say, as he saw this living tree,。
"It is a gift. It is a gift."。
Nicco was able to realize that the work he did in his earthly life was a gift.。
But even more, he discovers the work he did in his earthly life was only a partial reflection。
of a greater work that will find its completion only in the life to come.。
So it is with us.。
Sometimes it can seem that living within boundaries and limits is not in our best interest.。
Or even in the best interest of God's mission.。
But they are more than we can possibly imagine.。
When we trust in God's goodness by receiving his limits as our gift。
and expressions of his love, we mature in wisdom.。
Indeed, we have this wonderful assurance and encouragement from God himself.。
Isaiah chapter 54 says, "Enlarge the place of your tent.。
Stretch your tent curtains wide.。
Do not hold back. Lengthen your costs.。
Strengthen your stakes, for you will spread out to the right and to the left."。
Well, we only have limited days left for the year 2025.。
But as we lift up our eyes to see beyond, we can see what God has in store for us for the years ahead.。
As we draw to a closure of this year, may we learn to yield everything to him,。
let him bless and prosper the very little that we have surrendered to him.。
May he continue to lead us to an exciting journey into new and uncharted waters.。
We are to embrace our limits and yet be bold enough to go beyond.。
May I invite you to stand? I do want to pray and bless all of us here.。
Yeah, we are to learn how to embrace our limits.。
Some of you are aware that I have a medical condition that was, yeah, theoretically not curable.。
But it's controllable. So that's my limits.。
I need to learn and gracefully embrace this limit.。
So some of you need to learn how to embrace your own limits.。
Then earlier on this morning, a congregant shared with me,。
"Oh Sidney, what you have shared is a mission impossible."。
Yes, it's a mission impossible, but it is possible with God.。
So we need to ask God to enhance our faith to breakthrough.。
So I want to pray for all of us here.。
Lord, for all of us, for any one of us here who have a limit that we need to learn to embrace,。
may you give us the grace that we can indeed embrace our limits.。
And for some of us here who have a limit that we need to learn to breakthrough by faith,。
may you give us courage and boldness to breakthrough.。
In Jesus' name, Amen. Amen.。
Right now I would love to pray actually for Vivian and Sidney.。
And I would love for all of us to pray for them.。
So we're so excited about your church plant.。
And yeah, we would love to just pray for you.。
It's not our church plant. It's our church plant.。
Yes. Yeah.。
And for me in our own journey of planting,。
really there are so many things you can't do, but God does.。
And so I would love to pray for you.。
And I actually want to invite if you're an elder, and also John and Sandra and pastor,。
if you're here, I would love for you to come up and lay hands on as well and pray with me.。
And if you all can stretch out your hand, please.。
Yeah.。
Heavenly Father, I am so thankful for Sidney and Vivian。
and for just their love for you and their love for people。
and how they just love serving people。
and a love for people to experience healing and restoration。
and just growth in you and getting to know you.。
And I thank you, Lord, that when you appoint us,。
like you're appointing Vivian and you're appointing Sidney,。
you also anoint us by your Holy Spirit.。
And it's not by our own strength that we do anything.。
It's just by your grace and by your power at work in us.。
And so, Lord, I pray for your pouring out of your Holy Spirit,。
you fill them to the fullest measure。
and that as a journey in faith and courage with their limitations,。
but with you who is limitless, that you would get glory,。
that they could see you at work powerfully providing what they can't do,。
but you can do.。
And I also pray that you provide at every step of the way what they need,。
that you just bring the people, make the connections.。
I pray for the location, the venue,。
that you open up the right opportunity for them that is just in the right place.。
And so we just trust you with that, Lord, because that's who you are.。
You invite us into your work and then you provide us and you lead us。
and your presence is with us and is with Sidney and Vivian.。
So I just pray for your blessing.。
I pray for strength.。
I pray for joy.。
And I pray, Lord, that you get all the glory.。
I pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Thank you.。
[applause]。
Let's worship church.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
