Thank you church, thank you worship team.。
That was a beautiful time of singing。
and worshiping together.。
You may have a seat as you sit down.。
There might be someone new next to you so you can say hi.。
If you have some seats free next to you as well,。
just hold up your hand, let our host know。
so that we still have some people that are standing by。
wanting to get a seat.。
So if there's a seat free next to you,。
you can hold up your hand.。
Our host will come and fill up as many people。
as we can in this room.。
If you're in the overflow, a big welcome to you.。
Thank you for being here with us.。
And if you're joining us online,。
a very good morning from Hong Kong.。
Wherever you're joining us from, welcome as well.。
So we've kicked off this sermon series。
that we've called Uncharted.。
And actually I figured something out.。
It's actually quite a good way to get away with stuff。
in the office these days, right?。
So for example, if you do something like,。
you know, go for a three hour lunch and you come back。
and Carla's like, where have you been?。
It's like, oh, on a lunch, it was three hours.。
Well, it's Uncharted, right?。
I mean, we've never taken three hour lunches before,。
but now it's the way we're gonna do things.。
And so, just being cheeky, but you know,。
I figured it could be like a get out of jail free card。
sometimes as well.。
But we are, we're in this new sermon series。
we've called Uncharted where we feel like God in this year。
has challenged us with a vision to go places。
we've never gone before, right?。
No strategy, no knowledge, no necessarily any plans。
or steps that we are intending to take,。
but just be wide open in going where God。
is leading us to go.。
But a lot of that has to do,。
starts with the way we think, right?。
We have to be thinking, right?。
We have to be thinking as God is thinking。
in order for go and do where he's called us to do。
and go where he's called us to go.。
And our thoughts are with us all the time.。
You know, growing up, there's certain things。
I've realized now that have been so ingrained,。
like incepted into my mind that as I grew up as an adult,。
you know, as you live life, you realize actually。
has a bigger impact on you than you first realize.。
Right, some of these are funny and nonsensical, right?。
And you probably have heard some of these things.。
For example, my mom and my grandma always told me。
that if you sleep with the fan on blowing in your face,。
right, you will suffocate and die, okay?。
I'm sure I'm not the only one that's been。
grown up with that thought, right?。
If you don't sleep with the fan on,。
it's gonna blow against your nose。
and then the air, something happens, right?。
And then you will die in your sleep, okay?。
Another way, okay, another thing that my parents。
often told me was if you don't finish。
every single grain of rice in your bowl, okay,。
that's gonna be a mark on your future wife's face, okay?。
Now my wife is sitting here right now,。
you can see no marks on her face, very pretty, okay?。
But, right, so I would eat all my rice, right?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So like you have to eat every single grain of rice, okay?。
And otherwise, you're gonna end up with,。
you know, a scarred-faced woman.。
So, growing up, I was always very hot and very full, okay?。
Now I'm addicted to rice these days.。
You can ask my friends, like,。
if there's rice, I will always eat it.。
Right, so there were some funny ways, okay?。
But some of these other thoughts。
that I feel like were imprinted into my mind。
were slightly more damaging, right?。
For example, I developed a huge fear of making mistakes,。
right, because making mistakes。
often led to harsh punishment from my mom.。
And so instead of admitting to mistakes,。
I would hide, I would lie to cover things up.。
But of course, as you know, the more you hide,。
the more you lie, the bigger trouble I would get in。
in the end, and the more punished I would be, right?。
And I realized this started to affect。
the way I express myself, right?。
I began to believe that, you know,。
actually, I can't make any mistakes at all,。
so I have to keep everything hidden inside, right?。
I might feel this way, but I'm not gonna say it, right?。
'Cause I might be wrong, and if I'm wrong,。
then I'm gonna be punished.。
Now I used to think everybody thought like this.。
This was just a normal way to function in life, right?。
Until after I got married, I realized,。
actually, I should say it was pointed out to me, okay,。
that this pattern of thought was deeply affecting me, right?。
Because 100% it affected the way I was communicating。
with Brittany and the quality of our marriage.。
Now I will also say this, right?。
I love my mom deeply, and over the years,。
she and I have had some, started to have some。
really beautiful but hard conversations。
about the way she raised me, right?。
These healing and forgiving sort of conversations。
about my childhood and her childhood,。
and as we talked, I began to realize。
that the reason why fear was such a big part。
of my upbringing was because she was also raised。
in an environment where fear was even more,。
you know, deeply saturated into a background。
and punishment from my grandparents to her and her siblings.。
And so through a little bit of counseling。
to try and help me out, right,。
Brittany and I, I tried to express myself。
as best as I can these days.。
I tried to be intentional, not to let my own。
negative experiences now also shape the way。
I parent my two boys.。
But what I've come to realize is that。
for things to really change, I really have to go back。
to the source, right, and change the way I think.。
Right, I have to tell myself, remind myself。
literally these days that it's okay to make mistakes,。
right, no one's gonna come at me with a feather duster。
for the bad thing that I did, all right?。
Now, this is just a personal example,。
but the point I'm trying to make is this, right?。
It's not very hard to see that our thinking patterns。
have a significant effect on our beliefs。
and how we live our life and our behaviors,。
right, which is why with this vision。
that the Lord has given us to embrace the uncharted,。
to go forth into territory that we've never been before,。
we have to be open-minded.。
And if God wants to change the way we think,。
we have to let the Holy Spirit challenge us。
in our beliefs and challenge us in our behaviors。
and challenge us in our traditions。
to go where God wants us to go, right?。
We sang this just now, shake up the ground。
of my traditions, bring down the walls of my religion.。
Now, again, don't get me wrong, right?。
I'm not saying all religions and traditions are bad, right?。
There are lots of tenets of truth and traditions。
that play an important role in our faith, right?。
There's certain tenets and pillars of the Christian faith。
that I would say are definitely true。
and unshakeable and unmovable,。
and anyone who tells you anything else, it's a liar, right?。
For example, Jesus is the only way,。
the truth and the life, right?。
That cannot be changed, okay?。
That there is one God who exists as the Father and Son。
of the Holy Spirit, right?。
You will never change, that is just a fact, okay?。
That Jesus was born of a virgin, lived a sinless life,。
died on the cross as a perfect sacrifice for our sins,。
was resurrected on the third day,。
and sits enthroned in heaven.。
He's coming back to restore his creation。
and judge the living and the dead, okay?。
That is a fact that you can never change.。
We have God's word, these 66 books。
that God has given us as holy scripture.。
The words of this book will never change.。
No one can ever add or take away from this book.。
We have beautiful traditions like communion,。
which we celebrate every month, right?。
Some churches celebrate even more, right?。
It's a reminder of God's love and sacrifice。
and his presence with us.。
We have baptism, where we publicly display。
our faith in Jesus.。
These are some traditions and things,。
part of our faith, that are unshakable, unmovable.。
On the other hand, though, we have to be careful。
not to let other things bind us so much。
that the new and fresh things that God wants us to do。
are hindered by these barriers that we put up in our lives.。
And unless we're willing to embrace God's way of thinking,。
we will never be like I've been saying,。
go where God is leading us to go。
and do what he's asking us to do.。
So the question we have to ask ourselves today。
is this, church.。
Are we open to changing our thinking?。
Are we open to changing our traditions。
whenever God challenges them?。
Now, this is a huge challenge,。
because most of us are comfortable with the way we think.。
Most of all, are comfortable with,。
we think we're right all the time.。
For example, after I got married,。
did you realize that there is a correct way?。
I didn't think there was a correct way。
to put milk in the fridge, but apparently there is.。
I didn't think there was a correct way to fold towels。
that stack up in the bathroom a certain way,。
but there is, guys.。
But we develop these mindsets, right?。
We get so ingrained in these traditions,。
we get rooted into habits, we become stubborn,。
and that becomes hard to change.。
Especially, maybe some of these things。
have offered us comfort and guidance in the past.。
We wanna hold onto them so that we feel protected。
as we go into the future.。
But we've been saying, as we go into the future,。
we don't know what's going on.。
We don't know where God is leading us to go.。
So if we hold onto those things,。
we don't know if they're actually gonna be useful or not.。
Today, we're looking at a passage in scripture.。
And through looking at this story,。
I hope we can see that God,。
we realize that God is a God who's not afraid。
to challenge the way we think,。
to help us to break free from the things that hold us back,。
even if some of those things。
might have been good at one stage.。
If it's not fit for purpose now,。
God is challenging us to change the way we think。
so we can be the people he's called us to be.。
So let's open up God's word.。
You can listen to me, or you can read on the screen,。
or if you have your Bible, open that up.。
Acts chapter 10 is where we're gonna be.。
At Caesarea, there was a man named Cornelius,。
a centurion in what was known as the Italian Regiment.。
He and all his family were devout and God-fearing.。
He gave generously to those in need。
and prayed to God regularly.。
One day, at about three in the afternoon, he had a vision.。
He distinctly saw an angel of God who came to him。
and said, "Cornelius!"。
Cornelius stared at him in fear.。
"What is it, Lord?" he asked.。
The angel answered, "Your prayers and gifts to the poor。
"have come up as a memorial offering before God.。
"Now send men to Joppa to bring back a man named Simon。
"who is called Peter.。
"He is staying with Simon the Tanner。
"whose house is by the sea."。
Now right away, I think what Luke's trying to do。
is get us to shift and change.。
He's challenging us to look at certain things。
with a different perspective.。
Let me explain what I mean.。
At this time, Israel was still under Roman rule。
and authority.。
One of the things that Romans were most proud of,。
they were ruling over Israel at the time,。
they were the main authority,。
and one of the things that they were most proud of。
was their strong military power, their army.。
Now Cornelius was a big part of that army,。
a centurion in a very important city.。
So as a man, as a centurion in a place like Caesarea。
with an important port city,。
he had a good amount of influence,。
a powerful leader, and centurion means he had 100 soldiers。
under his control.。
And so we would expect him to fit the stereotypes。
of a Roman officer.。
And what were those?。
Well, they were known as being brutish and cruel,。
people who wouldn't hesitate to throw you in prison。
at the drop of a hat, to have you tortured,。
or even to have you killed if they didn't like。
the way you were doing something.。
As Romans, they would have worshipped pagan gods,。
other gods, not Yahweh, but their own gods。
and their own religion.。
So that would be the way that people would think about。
a Roman soldier or a centurion,。
someone in authority who is part of the Roman Empire.。
But this isn't what Cornelius is like at all.。
Instead, we are told that he is a God-fearing man,。
devout, he's generous to the poor,。
and very strikingly, they say he is a man of prayer.。
He prays to God.。
So what Luke is trying to do through this story。
is to help us open our eyes。
and open up our thinking a little bit.。
Because it would be easy to have written Cornelius off。
and say to ourselves, there is no way a man could ever use,。
a God could ever use a man like that.。
A Roman soldier, an idol worshipper,。
he's cruel, he's unsympathetic.。
But what God is trying to say,。
I can use anybody I choose to use.。
One thing to remember is this,。
we are not told how Cornelius actually came。
to know who God was, and to be so generous,。
to be so devoted to prayer.。
I don't think it would be too much of a reach, though,。
to sort of think that actually,。
Cornelius, too, had to go through a process。
of changing his mind.。
Knowing his background, knowing the way he was raised,。
he was probably raised in a home。
that did not worship God, that was cruel, that was brutish,。
embracing all those stereotypes that he grew up with.。
At some point, he had to change his mind,。
saying, I'm not gonna be like that,。
I'm not gonna be cruel, I'm not gonna be mean to people,。
actually, I'm gonna be generous, I'm gonna pray to God.。
He had a fundamental shift in the way he thought。
and in his beliefs.。
He had to make the big decision of pledging himself,。
not to Caesar, right, that's how the Romans were prayed to,。
pray to Caesar, but to pray to Yahweh instead.。
You see, what God was doing,。
God had amazing plans for Cornelius.。
There was something he was trying to do through Cornelius,。
but first, he had to challenge Cornelius。
in his way of thinking.。
Now, as I was reading this,。
I felt like this was a word in season for us,。
in the way we look at our leaders here in Hong Kong.。
Hear me out.。
Over the past few years, it's no secret。
that we have struggled at times.。
There's been a struggle between the city's leaders。
and the citizens.。
And perhaps certain decisions that have been made,。
it's easy to look at those in governing powers over us,。
to look at authority figures。
and think of them negatively, straight away,。
believing that they're all unkind,。
that they do not care about their citizens,。
that they're their own agenda in mind.。
But actually, I would say。
this is probably not just a Hong Kong problem,。
but all over the world, it's easy for us now。
to look at our earthly authority figures,。
people in government, people in authority over us,。
through a lens of disdain,。
much like a first-century Jew。
might have looked at a Roman soldier, an officer,。
seeing them as cruel, barbaric, and unsympathetic.。
And because we think these things about them,。
we feel like we can't trust them,。
and we feel like we don't want to follow them.。
We think they're cruel and unkind.。
We don't want anything to do with them.。
But I felt like when I was reading this,。
God was challenging us to shift our perspective,。
especially to those who govern over us.。
Because what if, and not even what if,。
I believe, actually, that God is calling us。
to truly pray for those in authority over us.。
And for some of us,。
this is gonna take a big shift in our thinking,。
and a big shift in the way we believe things.。
But I think this, because as we pray for our leaders,。
as God has commanded us to do in Scripture,。
perhaps God is also, at the same time,。
doing the work of raising up leaders,。
people in authority, authority figures,。
changing their hearts, changing their minds,。
like he might have done with Cornelius,。
who will then go on to live, to govern,。
to serve society in the way。
that God has called them to serve.。
And then we'll start to see the change。
that we've been all hoping to see.。
You see what I'm trying to say?。
So church, are we willing。
to change the way we think about leaders。
and those in authority over us?。
Are we willing to think and break out of those peoples。
that we've stereotyped as certain things,。
so that we can join in with God。
and want the best for their lives, and pray for them,。
and as God changes and moves people。
in ways that we don't even understand how,。
we get to partner with God in shaping。
and providing hope for this world.。
So with this new way of thinking,。
Cornelius, like we say, he suddenly and immediately,。
Cornelius suddenly receives a message from God,。
and immediately, he responds obediently。
to this mysterious message.。
Go to Joppa, find Peter, bring him back to me.。
And Cornelius responds immediately in obedience.。
It says this, "Cornelius called two of his servants。
"and a devout soldier who was one of his attendants."。
So three dudes, he says, he told them everything。
that happened and sent them to Joppa.。
Now at this moment, you have to realize,。
Cornelius has no clue what was going on.。
He's received a vision, an angel has come to talk to him.。
He's wondering, what is this all about?。
Who is this Simon Peter guy?。
Why is he at Simon the Tender's house?。
Why is the name Simon so popular in this area?。
Why does God want him to bring me back here?。
There's no answers yet,。
but what we can see is faith and obedience.。
And as God shifts our thinking,。
we also have to ask ourselves these questions.。
Once he does that, are we willing to be obedient。
even when things aren't clear for us?。
Are we willing to do what God calls us to do。
even when we haven't seen the whole picture yet?。
Andrew talked a bit about this last week,。
but obedience is easy when we understand.。
True obedience though, is when we don't see it all,。
yet we are still willing to do it anyway.。
This is what it means to take a risk,。
to not rely on a strategy, to have total surrender to God,。
but it has to start with the way we think,。
because most of us like a plan of action,。
even myself, right, most of the time I'm flying。
by the seats of my pants, right, whatever you say,。
but, okay, even for myself,。
at least some guardrails are comforting sometimes.。
But are we willing, right, to break of our comfort zones。
of knowing every single step。
and to simply let God lead the way and have his way?。
And when we do this, church,。
we see amazing things begin to happen.。
Okay, check it out, this is what happens next.。
About noon the following day,。
they were on their journey and approaching the city.。
Peter went up on the roof to pray.。
He became hungry and wanted something to eat,。
and while the meal was still being prepared,。
he fell into a trance.。
He saw heaven opened and something like a large sheep。
being let down to earth by its four corners.。
It contained all kinds of four-footed animals。
as well as reptiles and birds.。
And a voice told him, "Get up, Peter, kill and eat."。
"Surely not, Lord," Peter replied.。
"I have never eaten anything impure or unclean."。
The voice spoke to him a second time,。
"Do not call anything impure that God has made clean."。
This happened three times,。
and immediately the sheep was taken back to heaven.。
So the story is beginning to emerge.。
Now it's Peter's turn to have a supernatural encounter,。
to have a vision from heaven.。
And in his vision, we see something like a sheet。
that's filled with all kinds of animals,。
and he's commanded to get up, kill, and eat.。
Now, in our Chinese context, this sounds like a jackpot.。
Good punchoi, this is like a buffet.。
As a Chinese person, it's kind of hard sometimes。
to imagine things we can and cannot eat.。
So if we were to see a vision like this,。
God says, "Come on, kill and eat."。
It's like an invitation to a buffet.。
"Let's do it, come on, I'm excited.。
"I can eat anything I want."。
That's like the best deal ever.。
But Peter is not excited.。
He doesn't wanna go anywhere near that stuff.。
In fact, he almost sounds insulted。
that Jesus would ask him to do such a thing。
in the first place.。
Jesus was asking Peter, essentially,。
to break the food laws.。
All kinds of unclean animals that Jews were forbidden。
to eat were filled up in this sheet.。
Peter's like, "I've never touched those things.。
"From since I was a baby, I've been observing these laws.。
"These laws that have been passed down。
"from generation to generation,。
"since we've been freed from slavery in Egypt up till now.。
"My parents, my grandparents, my great-grandparents,。
"we have all followed these laws.。
"Things have always been this way."。
Which is why Peter says, "Surely not, Lord.。
"I have never eaten anything unclean."。
And you have to realize that actually,。
this wasn't just about food laws.。
This was about identity.。
It was a matter of holiness.。
The food laws were part of the laws。
that set the nation of Israel apart from other nations.。
From Jews, from Gentiles.。
Gentiles means anyone who's not a Jew.。
So this is what it did for them,。
to set them apart, to keep them holy,。
to keep them protected from other nations.。
And Jews would look at all these unclean foods。
that the Gentiles would eat and would label them。
as evil and wicked for these unclean things。
that Gentiles would do.。
Us as Jewish people, we don't do those things.。
And so when Peter says, "No, I'm not gonna do that,"。
you can sort of sympathize him a little bit at first。
to why he had that sort of reaction.。
Like I said, his whole life,。
this was ingrained to his beliefs,。
the importance of keeping up Levitical law,。
certain rules, certain things, right?。
And it wasn't just food laws as a whole,。
but 617 laws that they had to follow.。
It was part of their identity.。
Right, in fact, the food laws were particularly important。
that they were revered in a way。
some of the heroes of the Old Testament faith.。
Remember David and his three friends, right?。
They refused to eat the king's food.。
And in the end, they were commended。
as people who truly follow God。
and God blessed them in a certain way.。
They were rescued by God。
precisely because they didn't break the food laws.。
So Peter was thinking this, I'm set.。
These are things that can never be done.。
Certain foods are prohibited by God.。
I'm never gonna break that law.。
And for a time, like I said,。
that was needed and it was right.。
But now what God was doing through this vision, right,。
even though Peter doesn't quite see it yet,。
he makes clear that there is now no distinction。
between Jews and Gentiles.。
God is using this picture of unclean food now made clean。
to pertain that the Gentiles too。
are included in God's plan.。
They've always been, right?。
That they're included in God's plan,。
that the Gentiles have been made clean.。
And so what this means now is for you yourself, Peter,。
as a Jewish person, you can now go and fellowship。
and do life and minister to these people.。
In fact, that's what I'm gonna call you to do.。
I am welcoming them fully into this family of God, Peter,。
and so should you.。
So Peter, put out your old way of thinking。
and be a part of what I'm trying to do now.。
This is what God is trying to say.。
In fact, he says it very clearly.。
Do not call anything impure that God has made unclean.。
Like I said, it's more than just about food laws.。
It's not just saying to Peter,。
hey, go and eat taffy right now, okay?。
It's more than that.。
One level, yes, dig in, but like I said,。
he's trying to say there are no lines of boundaries now。
that one separates it from you and the others.。
Jesus is drawing Jew and Gentile together,。
not moving past one to get to the other,。
not choosing one and rejecting the other,。
but bringing them together to draw close。
what was once far apart.。
When I was studying this, I may think, what about us?。
What are some ways in our society。
and these traditional ways of thinking。
that we have labeled other people as unclean。
and rejected them?。
What are some lines and boundaries within our own culture。
that we need to begin and start changing our thinking on?。
In many ways, what God was challenging Peter to do,。
similar what we're facing in Hong Kong today.。
Like Peter, for those of us who grew up in Hong Kong,。
we've grown up in sort of like a colonized environment,。
meaning we've always been under the rule。
of some sort of foreign power.。
But now that we're no longer accordingly,。
we've returned to our home country for some time now,。
but because we've been separated for so long,。
we don't really feel that connected as Hong Kongers。
to our roots and our origins.。
So we find ourselves, I feel like,。
in a bit of an identity crisis.。
We're not British enough to be British,。
we're not Chinese enough to be Chinese,。
so we have Hong Kong culture.。
And so as Hong Kongers, we're proud of this in many ways.。
I am so proud to be from this city,。
and it's such a beautiful thing.。
We have a rich diversity here in Hong Kong, don't we?。
Melting pot from people from all over the world.。
We can even see that reflected in this very room itself.。
We've got Cantonese language,。
colorful, very descriptive, right?。
You could ask for a spoon and end up with a fork, right?。
Get one tone wrong,。
and it completely changes what you're trying to say.。
We have amazing food, right?。
Vibrant, delicious, fusion foods from all over the world.。
You can have an amazing meal for $45,。
or you can have an even better,。
you can have a good meal for $4,500, right?。
Either one, it's amazing and delicious, it's in own way.。
At the same time though,。
because I feel like we have these struggles with identity,。
we've developed these sort of defense mechanisms,。
these barriers, these ways of thinking that we've put up。
that separate us from others.。
And these have developed into some unhealthy。
and prejudiced ways of thinking。
that we might view people in our city.。
So for example, when we encounter someone from the mainland,。
as a Hong Konger, maybe one of our natural instincts。
is to think, "Oh, well, they're not really like us.。
"We might look similar,。
"but they don't really share in our culture.。
"They don't really, you know, we speak a similar language,。
"but it's quite different enough for us。
"not to be able to understand each other,。
"so we're not gonna engage with them."。
What about our foreign domestic workers?。
Well, these people might live alongside us,。
but really they're just a worker in our homes.。
We're the busy, successful Hong Kongers。
going about making money.。
We don't need to really engage with them.。
And sometimes we don't even think of them。
and treat of them as members of society, right?。
Since the pattern of thinking we've developed,。
their role is just to serve.。
And we fail to truly love, respect, and honor。
our foreign domestic workers, our helpers, and aunties。
who support our families so well.。
What about our other ethnic minorities。
that live in this city, right?。
They too eat differently, dress differently,。
have languages that we don't understand.。
Again, but they haven't grown up here.。
They're not really Hong Kongers,。
so let's keep them at arm's length as well.。
Now, we're in Hong Kong.。
I'm a Hong Konger.。
We're speaking in a very Hong Kong context,。
but if you're listening today and you're not from here,。
or you're listening from somewhere else,。
the idea is the same, right?。
You see what I'm trying to say?。
In your own context, in your own culture,。
what are these barriers that you've set up?。
What are these faulty ways of thinking。
that you've developed about other people,。
other cultures that are not like you?。
Or what about when it comes to even in this gathering,。
our own church itself, right?。
Do we label people with certain sin struggles。
to be more unclean?。
Do we take a holier-than-thou approach。
to people struggling with certain sins?。
Do the barriers that we see in culture。
seep into our faith gatherings?。
So on the surface here, it might seem like。
everyone's getting along, raising their hands in worship,。
getting along, praising God together,。
but deep down, I would never go to this person's house.。
No way.。
That true connection is not there.。
These barriers break God's heart.。
It's certainly not how he thinks about things.。
And as we hold on to these old ways of thinking,。
we hold on to our prejudice,。
we are calling impure by our own judgment。
what God has already made clean.。
What are we refusing to change, church,。
but we know God has deep down,。
we know that God has called us to change.。
These are the ways of thinking。
that God is challenging us in.。
And it's a beautiful thing。
when Peter realizes what's happening.。
When Peter realizes what Jesus is asking him to do,。
it's like a eureka, ding, ding, ding sort of moment。
in his life, right?。
Listen to these words.。
I now realize how true it is。
that God chose not favoritism, listen,。
but accepts every nation who fears him。
and does what is right.。
You have to understand Peter's mindset from before.。
He became a man from so adamant, right,。
about not ever, he's a very stubborn man。
to changing his thinking。
into what God has been asking him to embrace.。
This is the beautiful thing。
about letting God do the thinking instead of us,。
because he's infinitely wiser,。
his perspective is infinitely wider than any of us.。
We find out, actually,。
this is what God has been working at the whole time,。
even though we don't know it.。
It took them to respond in change of thinking。
and their obedience.。
Now they see it, right?。
Last week, we realized that Peter and the Ethiopian eunuch。
were, it wasn't a coincidence that they got together,。
but it was the Holy Spirit who was orchestrating.。
God was orchestrating the whole thing, right?。
Later on in the story of Acts,。
we have Saul and Ananias,。
two people that should never have been together,。
but God brings them together.。
And now we have Cornelius and Peter,。
two men who are willing to change the way they think,。
respond in obedience to God,。
and now God's gonna use them in a remarkable way.。
Like I said, the transformation that Peter has gone through。
is actually pretty remarkable, right?。
'Cause Peter was always a person who thought he knew best.。
Last week, we figured out, right,。
Peter was the one who thought he knew better than Jesus,。
that planned for Jesus' life。
until Jesus rebuked him to his face.。
Peter was once, he thought that violence was the best way。
to stop the soldiers from worshiping Jesus.。
So what did he do?。
He took things into his own hand.。
When the soldiers were coming to arrest Jesus,。
he pulls out his sword, tries to cut the guy's head off,。
and said, "Just get his ear," right?。
He thought that was the right thing to do.。
But God told Jesus, says, "Not this way, Peter."。
Peter was so stubborn in his thinking,。
"I'm gonna be loyal to Jesus,。
"and even if it costs me my life,。
"only to deny his best friend hours after that."。
So Peter has gone through this journey。
in the way he was thinking,。
but there's one particular moment,。
as I was reading this passage and thinking back,。
that I felt like Peter was probably thinking about。
when he came across this thought.。
Matthew 16, 19 tells us,。
when Jesus is having this conversation with Peter,。
he once said to Peter,。
"The keys to the kingdom of heaven have been given to you."。
And I really wonder if Peter was thinking。
about that conversation when he realized。
that's what's happening in this moment.。
It's God was saying, "Remember, Peter,。
"I gave you the keys.。
"You are the gatekeeper in this moment。
"of the kingdom of heaven.。
"I want you to take those keys, Peter.。
"I want you to open the gates and throw them wide open,。
"and now your job is to tell the whole world,。
"everyone who loves me is welcome in.。
"Doesn't matter if you're Jew,。
"doesn't matter if you're Gentile.。
"Open those gates, Peter.。
"You have the key.。
"Your job is to tell the world who I am。
"and let everybody into my kingdom.。
"This is the new way of thinking。
"that I'm challenging you with,。
"not just to the Jewish nation, but to everyone."。
And this is what Peter's life changed.。
We see him launching into this mission,。
and he goes and he starts spreading the gospel.。
He starts with Cornelius and his family.。
He starts sharing with them the gospel,。
telling them who Jesus is.。
Even though they love God, they haven't yet met Jesus,。
and so in this moment, Peter shares the gospel。
with Cornelius, his family.。
He starts to tell them about his death and his resurrection,。
the forgiveness of sins that come through believing in him.。
And Peter has fully embraced his thinking。
that everyone who gives their life to Jesus。
is welcome into his kingdom.。
All the barriers now, the very fact that he's in Cornelius'。
house itself already means that his thinking。
has been changed.。
But this is the most amazing thing.。
An astonishing thing happens here.。
Peter didn't even get to finish his message。
because at that moment, the Holy Spirit falls,。
and Cornelius and his family begin speaking his tongues。
and they're baptized fully into God's family.。
But we saw this happening earlier, actually,。
in the book of Acts, on the day of Pentecost,。
when the disciples themselves were filled。
with the Holy Spirit.。
Now it's the Gentiles' turn, the non-Jewish family's turn,。
to receive the Holy Spirit.。
This is God's final confirmation of the picture.。
This is truly what I'm trying to do.。
Everyone now is welcome into the kingdom of God.。
This is for real.。
All this was possible because Peter was willing。
to think differently.。
He was willing to put down his traditions,。
his culture, so he could respond to what God。
was calling him to do.。
Right, he could have been stubborn,。
he could have been stuck in his ways。
when he saw that sheet and he said,。
"I'm not gonna do that, I'm gonna keep to my lane,。
"I'm gonna stay what I'm doing.。
"You go find someone else to do this."。
But notice, that's not what happens.。
He responds by changing his thinking in obedience to God.。
Right, notice, this is always about God's work.。
It's not that Peter changed his thoughts。
in somehow orchestrated events, right?。
It's not that he saw, it wasn't just a random vision。
in the sky that he responded to it.。
This was God challenging him to his way of thinking。
into ways he'd never thought about himself,。
but responding in obedience to what God。
was calling him to do now.。
And as we look, this is very typical。
of the way God works across the Bible.。
Right, helping people change their perspective,。
change their thinking so he can respond。
in obedience to him and then they can do。
what he's called them to do.。
For example, Moses.。
Right, Moses always thought he wasn't a good speaker.。
I'm not, I don't have the words,。
I'm not a good speaker, Lord.。
But God used him to speak to Pharaoh。
and set his people free from slavery.。
Gideon thought to himself, I'm the smallest dude。
from the smallest tribe, there's big army before me,。
how can I ever do, how can I ever defeat them?。
God shifts his perspective, changes thinking,。
and with just 300 men, Gideon defeats the enemy army.。
Right, the woman at the well thought, you know,。
Jesus was there to condemn her, just like everybody else.。
She thought, you know, I'm no longer worthy of society,。
I have to come out here in the heat of the day。
just to get some water, I have no place in society anymore.。
But as she encounters Jesus, her perspective changes。
and she goes back and evangelizes。
the entire region of Samaria.。
You see how now it's not our role to think up strategies,。
to come up with ideas, to come up with plans,。
to figure things out, God has already done that for us.。
All he asks us to do is shift the way we think。
so that we can walk in obedience。
and then he can use us to do the things。
that he has called us to do.。
It's all about being obedient to Christ.。
So let me give us a few guidelines from scripture。
as to how we can switch our minds。
so we can be more obedient to the things。
God is calling us to.。
Number one, 1 Corinthians 2, 16,。
scripture tells us to do this,。
to put on the mind of Christ.。
This means that we don't think like the world thinks,。
but rather we put on the mind of Christ,。
we're saying that we think like Jesus would think.。
We approach things from a godly perspective.。
We set our minds on the things that are what?。
Above.。
And as we do this, scripture tells us。
we can't do this by our own experience.。
We lean not on our own, what church?。
Understanding.。
But submit all our ways to him, that's Proverbs 3.。
We embrace the wisdom of God,。
we trust that God's way are not our ways,。
his thoughts are what?。
Higher than our thoughts, Isaiah 55.。
You see, if we do things,。
if we keep just thinking in our own ways。
and doing things our own ways,。
we're only ever gonna get earthly results.。
But when we shift our thinking。
and respond in obedience to God,。
we get godly, heavenly, supernatural results.。
We do not conform to the pattern of this world。
that Bible tells us,。
but our minds are transformed,。
we are transformed by the renewing of our minds.。
Then we will be able to test and approve what God's will is,。
his good, pleasing, and perfect will, right?。
To obey him, to walk in the way he wants us to walk,。
Romans 12.。
We take every top captive and make it what?。
Obedient to Christ.。
This is what I mean when we say。
we need to change the way we think, right?。
It's not about mustering up more willpower,。
it's not about manifesting, okay?。
Don't come at me with that.。
Okay, into reality.。
It's not about setting a more positive mindset even,。
it's about changing your thinking。
so you can be obedient to God。
and walk in the way that he's called you to walk.。
This is what it means to change our thinking.。
And when we do this,。
when we do this, the world truly begins to change.。
When we have a church that's filled with people。
who are thinking right, guided by God's wisdom,。
obedient to what Jesus has called us to do,。
empowered by the Holy Spirit,。
boldly going into these uncharted areas。
that we've been challenged to go,。
to places in our community,。
we bring down the strongholds。
that have been taking other people captive.。
We can say amen to that, yes?。
Imagine what it would be like.。
Our city is so stuck in the ways of thinking,。
some of the things that we see in our society。
that we've sort of given up on.。
But if we go together,。
if we're obedient to what Jesus has called us to do,。
and we start to bring a new perspective。
to some of these strongholds,。
think what would happen.。
So the thought in the city that money is more important。
than everything else,。
from God's perspective that looks like,。
you know what, I'm gonna teach people。
and teach myself to put God first.。
Right, the thought that you need to be a certain position,。
to be considered somebody,。
becomes God loves you and values you。
and cherishes you unconditionally,。
no matter who you are.。
This thought that we need to put this immense pressure。
on our kids to be high achievers。
and have all these academic achievements。
becomes Jesus wants you just to have childlike faith.。
The thought that this city can never be evangelized。
because people are too busy chasing the Hong Kong dream。
becomes with God, all things are possible.。
The idea that separation and separation is a reality。
that people will never be truly united。
becomes in Christ there is slave nor free,。
Jew nor Gentile, male or female.。
This pandemic that we see with our young people。
giving up hope, turning to drugs and suicide, right?。
The generations of Hong Kong have no hope。
becomes you, oh Lord, are my hope and my salvation.。
The thought that the idols of the city。
will always have a foothold,。
that will never break free from the things。
that hold us back from really following God。
become Jesus is the way, the truth and the?。
The idea that there's families,。
that children out there,。
that need families out there right now,。
foster care and adoption,。
and that they will always be stuck in this situation,。
that generations upon generations of fatherlessness,。
of parentlessness becomes look after the widows。
and the orphans and a group of Christians。
will rise up to that challenge。
and every single child can be placed。
into a home that loves them.。
Come on church,。
let's not sit back and be defeated by our thoughts.。
That's what the enemy is trying to do,。
to try to confuse our way we think,。
but this is a call to rise up,。
change our thinking, change our perspective,。
ask God to give us a new mind and a new heart。
so we can walk in obedience to him。
and be the people he's called to be,。
do the things that he's called us to do,。
defeat and claim back some of these uncharted areas。
that the enemy has taken for the glory of God.。
This is how we bring the light of the gospel into the city.。
Jesus had made all things clean,。
our job now is to bring things back into his presence,。
do the work of reclaiming city in the name of Jesus。
and it starts with the way we think church.。
