In Jesus' name, amen, amen, amen.。
Church, good afternoon, good afternoon.。
All right, let's dive in.。
Today, we're gonna be looking at the next section。
in this season of Uncharted that we are stepping into。
in our current, we're not just stepping into it,。
we're kind of in it now, right?。
It's not just a vision or a thing for the future,。
but we really believe that through what God is doing。
and the worship experiences we're having,。
the times of prayer, the time of teaching。
is really helping prepare us, it's equipping us,。
it's giving us what we need to be able。
to walk faithfully into these seasons。
that are uncharted, knowing that He is with us。
and that He is good.。
So I'll start off like this.。
Did you know that there are 27 books in our New Testament?。
Of those 27 books, about half of them have the same author.。
One guy I like to write a lot.。
This guy's name is Paul, right?。
Paul wrote about 13 to 14 books in the New Testament.。
Paul is what you call a super Christian.。
He has lots of accomplishments.。
He's done some pretty great things.。
What he would do in his writing to these churches。
that he helped establish and build and strengthen,。
some that he founded would be encouragement.。
He would give them words through the power。
of the Holy Spirit, writing these letters。
to edify, to help grow and flourish these communities.。
Even here at the Vine, we're on that train.。
Did you know that our vision comes from。
one of Paul's letters?。
Does anyone know what letter it comes from?。
This would be nice, some fun trivia.。
Who knows what letter does the vision at the Vine come from?。
Ooh, crickets.。
Come on, 2 p.m.?。
I believe in y'all.。
Ooh, now don't get it wrong.。
(laughing)。
Which book is it?。
Ephesians, the book of Ephesians.。
Paul writes this letter to the church in Ephesus.。
So let me read you this prayer that he prays,。
which we have built our vision on here at the Vine.。
He prays this, that we would grasp how wide and how high,。
how long, how deep is the love of Christ,。
and that we would know this love。
would surpass this knowledge.。
And this is the part where we get our statement from,。
that you would be filled to the measure。
of all the fullness of God.。
Talk about some encouraging words.。
Growing big people filled to the measure。
of all the fullness, all of the fullness of God.。
Paul is a key figure in the New Testament.。
He actually, one of the major things that he does。
is he is this agent of bringing the Gentiles,。
who are non-ethnically Jewish people,。
who are not under the promises and the inheritance。
of a Jewish God, bringing them into the family of God,。
showing that Jesus was for all people,。
not just one specific demographic.。
Authors would say that Paul was like a mediator,。
establishing a unified community。
between the Gentiles and the Jewish Christians.。
If you've been in church for any amount of time,。
you could probably play bingo with some of the letters。
and some of the quotes that Paul has, right?。
So we're gonna play a simple game.。
Raise your hand if you know this one, okay?。
So let's test it, make sure you're awake.。
Show me how you raise your hand.。
Hey, about half of you, good, good, good.。
Maybe the other half will catch on.。
So how many of you are familiar。
with the fruit of the spirit?。
Love, joy, peace, patience.。
Raise your hand, raise your hand, raise your hand.。
Okay, you've heard that one before.。
All right, hands down.。
What about like the armor of God, right?。
Okay, cool, some of you are good.。
What about this one?。
If you're married or if you've ever been to a wedding,。
you probably, you don't have to be a Christian,。
you probably know this one.。
Love is patient, love is kind.。
Love does all these nice things.。
Anyone heard that one before?。
All right, last one.。
This is a two o'clock, so I believe。
there might be someone in here。
with this very verse tattooed on their body.。
If it's you, it's okay, all right?。
Paul's writings are so good.。
He says this one, I mean, and I'm from the US,。
I'm gonna give American reference.。
There's a football player who put it on their face。
because it was so impactful.。
I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me,。
right, we know that one as well.。
These are all some of the words that Paul had penned。
through the power of the Holy Spirit。
to help grow and edify the church.。
Paul is a big, important figure.。
But not only does he write catchy Bible verses,。
he also goes on these trips,。
on these specifically three missionary journeys。
all across the Roman Empire to help build churches,。
to help start churches, to help speak life。
to some of these leaders, to ultimately bring。
the good news of the gospel across the Roman Empire.。
And in that process, he gets shipwrecked,。
he gets bitten by snakes, he gets stoned,。
people are chasing him out of the town.。
He argues with the Greeks in order to show them。
that all of their wisdom and knowledge。
is pointing to the wrong things.。
He is adamant about helping people see who Jesus really is.。
Across his lifetime, this is some of the stuff。
that you get out of Paul.。
And ultimately, he is killed for his faith.。
But the perspective that he held, man, it's interesting.。
He would say, he compares, he would compare。
to the joy that is coming, the pain that he feels now。
and the hardship he feels now, it's okay.。
He's not saying that it's not hard,。
he's saying compared to the joy that's coming,。
this guy had a good perspective.。
He would say things like, I count everything else。
that I have as lost compared to knowing Jesus.。
Like this is like a hero, man, like I wanna be able。
to live and talk like this and be like this.。
This is the Paul that we have.。
But here's the thing, Paul was not always this way.。
Paul had a past, right?。
Paul had some stuff he did in the past。
that was pretty shady and dodgy, right?。
We talk about how Paul is known for these incredible feats。
of accomplishment within the Christian space.。
However, at some point, Paul was Saul。
and he was the antithesis of everything he's famous for now.。
He was against the Jesus movement.。
Yeah, no, he wanted to end it.。
His purpose and his goal was to eradicate。
the followers of Jesus, to remove them from here.。
Talk about a complete 180.。
That was a little throw to you guys, 180.。
You're welcome, you're welcome, I saved that just for you.。
His transformation story is pretty well known,。
but let me just give us a quick little recap.。
He gets permission from the chief priest to go to Damascus.。
So he's in Jerusalem, he gets permission to leave Jerusalem,。
go to another part of town, go to another city,。
and to go and gather the Christians。
and bring them back for trialing in Jerusalem.。
So he's on his way with all the authority,。
with all the papers he needs,。
and all of a sudden, his light from heaven flashes down。
and Saul is knocked off of his horse.。
And standing before him is Jesus in this bright light.。
Jesus is standing face to face.。
I mean, imagine, like if you've been doing things right,。
seeing Jesus face to face would be scary.。
If you've been persecuting him,。
probably terrifying, right?。
So terrifying that Saul ends up losing his vision.。
Jesus asked him, "Why are you persecuting me, Saul?"。
I love that small detail.。
He doesn't say, "Why are you persecuting my people?"。
He says, "Why are you persecuting me?"。
He identifies himself with the sufferings of his people.。
And Saul would have this moment where he is just awestruck.。
He's seen Jesus and Jesus has spoken to him,。
and now he leaves blind, perhaps one of the most impactful,。
powerful men, now in this extremely vulnerable state。
where he can't even walk by himself.。
And it's within this space。
that we get introduced to another person.。
This transformation that God is starting in Saul。
is not complete.。
God brings someone else in,。
someone that we know very little about,。
some small potato kind of person。
who didn't write 15 books of the New Testament,。
who doesn't have all the quotable lines,。
someone that probably no one knows who they are, right?。
This is where we're introduced to a guy named Ananias.。
Raise your hand if you've ever heard of the name Ananias.。
Like six people.。
Okay, cool.。
Okay, some of you guys do.。
That's good.。
Ananias is not a popular figure.。
No one really knows who he is.。
Very little is known about him.。
But this is where we get introduced to him,。
and it's in this context of persecution.。
As Pastor Andrew talked about last week,。
persecution which broke out in the first century church.。
The way they spoke about Saul。
was that he was breathing murderous threats。
against the church,。
dragging men and women out of their houses.。
This is the space where we get to see。
a ridiculous transformation,。
a transformation which requires sacrifice,。
which requires cost,。
which makes people weigh what it is。
that they truly believe.。
So I'm gonna take us to the Bible,。
if you have your Bible with you.。
This is what a Bible looks like.。
Old school Bible.。
We're gonna read through it today.。
Let me just pull it out.。
Looking at Acts chapter nine,。
starting at verse 10.。
If you don't physically have a Bible with you,。
it's okay, we don't shame you here.。
There will be scripture on the screen,。
you can read there.。
This is what happens.。
In Damascus, there was a disciple named Ananias.。
The Lord called to him in a vision,。
"Ananias."。
"Yes, Lord," he answered.。
The Lord told him, "Go to the house of Judas。
on Straight Street and ask for a man。
from Tarsus named Saul,。
for he is praying.。
In a vision, he has seen a man named Ananias come。
and place his hands on him to restore his sight."。
"Lord," Ananias answered,。
"I have heard many reports about this man。
and all the harm he has done。
to your holy people in Jerusalem.。
And he has come here with authority。
from the chief priests to arrest all。
who call on your name.。
But the Lord said to Ananias,。
"Go, this man is my chosen instrument。
to proclaim my name to the Gentiles and their kings。
and to the people of Israel.。
I will show him how much he must suffer for my name."。
So Ananias went up to the house and entered it,。
placing his hands on Saul.。
He said, "Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus who appeared to you。
on the road as you were coming here,。
he has sent me so that you may see again。
and be filled with the Holy Spirit."。
And immediately, something like scales fell from Saul's eyes。
and he could see again.。
He got up and he was baptized.。
And after taking some food, he regained his strength.。
Saul spent several days with the disciples in Damascus.。
At once, he began to preach in the synagogues。
that Jesus is the son of God.。
And all those who heard him were astonished.。
And they asked, "Isn't he the man。
who raised havoc in Jerusalem。
among those who call on this name?。
And hasn't he come here to take them as prisoners。
to the chief priests?"。
Yet Saul grew more and more powerful.。
And he baffled the Jews living in Damascus。
by proving that Jesus is the Messiah.。
Why don't you pray with me?。
Jesus, we ask this afternoon that as we open your word。
and as we sit with it, Holy Spirit,。
that you would give us understanding.。
It wouldn't just be good information,。
some fun facts and a cool story, God,。
but we know that life comes from your word.。
You speak to us through this.。
And so we ask right now that you would open our hearts,。
that it would be fertile ground to hear from you。
what you have to say.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
So this is Ananias' guy.。
He is part of the transformation of Saul.。
But as you can see, we know very little about Ananias.。
Very little is documented in his moment。
in the scriptures.。
While living under persecution,。
Ananias is called into the known.。
Right now, this should make you be, "What?"。
Say, "Hold on, this whole sermon series。
is called the uncharted, right?。
So not the known, but the uncharted, the unknown."。
But there's something about what Ananias is stepping into.。
There are some elements that are known to him.。
The reputation of Saul, for instance, is well known to him.。
The risk, the danger that he'll be putting himself in。
is well known to him.。
This would be uncharted with some elements that are known.。
A risky decision.。
Ananias would have to decide where he stands.。
A call to the uncharted where Ananias is going to have。
to weigh his options, consider his beliefs,。
and where his trust really is.。
Where Ananias is gonna have to ask himself,。
"What does he follow?。
What is he obedient to?"。
Or if his beliefs in Jesus boil down。
to an accumulation of information on Jesus.。
This is part of the uncharted space。
that we all step into as well.。
Where it's not just gonna be, "How well do we know stories?"。
It's gonna be a space where we're gonna be questioning,。
wondering, "Where do we really trust?。
Where is our actual trust?。
Where is our actual obedience?。
How do we step into these situations。
when the risk is clear。
and the odds don't look very favorable?"。
If this hasn't been your situation yet,。
it will be at some point.。
And in those moments, we have to ask ourselves,。
knowing that there's difficulty ahead,。
will we still follow him into uncharted spaces?。
That's the question.。
Knowing that there's a great risk and a great price to pay,。
will we continue to lean in?。
Will we continue to follow?。
Will we step in to those uncharted spaces。
or will we step out?。
Will we opt out?。
When we know that it's gonna cost us a lot,。
it's gonna require a lot,。
pushing us way out of our comfort zones,。
maybe not even necessarily being safe.。
At that point, we have a question to ask us.。
If you were here last week, Pastor Andrew, great sermon.。
If you haven't listened to it, listen to it.。
But he talked about persecution.。
And I want to remind us of something that he said,。
because yes, it sets the stage for persecution。
and how we approach it,。
but also impacts some of these decisions。
that we're gonna have to wrestle with.。
He said this, "When putting Christ first。
"comes with great personal cost,。
"we are tempted to choose what is safe。
"rather than obedience to him."。
This is the very position。
that Ananias would have found himself in.。
God extends an invitation into a crazy moment,。
into something that's never been done before,。
into a space where he would have to。
have total dependency on God.。
Because the rumors of Saul,。
the reputations of his imprisonments。
and his killing and his persecution,。
he was notorious for being efficient at what he did.。
Saul was a really good persecutor of the Christians.。
And it's against this backdrop that God invites Ananias.。
I find the way that Luke tells this story。
to be very revealing.。
There's so many things he could have said,。
but actually he doesn't say a lot。
when it comes to Ananias.。
He doesn't give us a lot of details on who Ananias is.。
He gives us one specific detail regarding who Ananias is,。
and it's not his background, his age, his occupation,。
not his family, not his status,。
not how many services he went to on a Sunday,。
not what church he attended, some of that stuff.。
The one detail he gives us on Ananias。
ends up being perhaps the most critical。
thing about Ananias.。
He reveals the essence of Ananias' identity.。
And what is that identity?。
Well, that identity is going to be what shapes。
the way Ananias approaches how to follow Jesus。
into uncharted territories.。
It's going to be what he uses to make his decisions,。
to weigh his options.。
It's gonna be from that position of his identity。
that he is going to have a rationalized way。
of weighing his options and his risk ahead of him.。
If we go back to the text, it says this.。
In Damascus, there was a disciple named Ananias.。
The key word here is disciple.。
Luke deems that it's only detail that's worth noting,。
or perhaps better put, it's the only thing。
that tells us everything we need to know。
about who Ananias is, and that is that he is。
a disciple of Jesus.。
And the word disciple is a very common word。
in the New Testament.。
Across the first five books of our scriptures,。
the Gospels and Acts, the word disciple,。
it shows up 261 times.。
It's talked about a lot.。
A disciple simply means this, one who follows.。
A disciple is one who follows.。
I remember being younger and being told。
or given the example of the game Follow the Leader.。
Has anyone played that before?。
It wasn't that great of a game, but it was a game.。
It's kind of a terrible game, whatever.。
Follow the leader.。
One person goes and your only objective is to follow them.。
So if the leader goes over here, you go over here.。
If the leader goes to the upper house,。
you go to the upper house.。
If the leader goes out the exit, you go out the exit.。
That is the whole premise of the game.。
Discipleship is very similar to that concept.。
Wherever Jesus goes, whatever Jesus does, we follow him.。
When you think back to the first call。
of the disciples in Matthew, what does Jesus say?。
He doesn't say go get a very, very thorough education。
and come back.。
He doesn't say have all your things together.。
He doesn't say quote every scripture noticeable.。
He says come and follow me.。
This is the essence of what it means to be a disciple,。
to follow Jesus, living and responding in adherence to him.。
So then a disciple of Jesus is someone who does this,。
who follows Jesus in his belief patterns,。
who follows Jesus in Jesus' ideological leanings,。
in his practice, in his behavior.。
The follower of Jesus prioritizes Jesus。
in their preferences, in their decision-making processes,。
in their posture towards society and culture.。
This is what a disciple does.。
They pretty much just imitate what Jesus did.。
They follow in his footsteps.。
So therefore, as a disciple of Jesus,。
Ananias lives a certain way in response to who Jesus was,。
to what Jesus had shown.。
And Ananias has decided that Christ was enough,。
that Christ was everything, Christ was it.。
Therefore, it didn't matter what was gonna happen.。
He was going to follow Jesus.。
So when God calls Ananias in this book。
into a challenging situation,。
it's from this posture and this position。
of being a disciple of Jesus。
that Ananias is able to step into the unknown,。
step into the uncharted,。
step into the wild challenges that are gonna be ahead of him。
in this experience with Saul.。
Because Luke identifies Ananias as a disciple,。
it gives us a little bit of a foreshadowing.。
We should be able to recognize and know。
that if he's a disciple of Jesus,。
that means whatever he's called to do,。
if it's where Jesus would have went, it's what he will do.。
If Jesus calls him to go here, he'll go there.。
That's just the nature of what a disciple is.。
However, in our discipleship, I wanna be clear,。
we have choices, Ananias had a choice.。
Because it's not so simple as just like,。
follow what Jesus does。
when there's other players in the game, right?。
It's not like it's just me and Jesus and that's it.。
There's no like other temptation or no other resistance。
and nothing else to push me away.。
No, actually, there's quite a bit of other things。
that he could follow, right?。
In this season of uncharted for us,。
we have to recognize that it's not just us and Jesus,。
that there's other voices, other variables,。
other players in the game, so to speak.。
In these moments, we can find ourselves。
if we're not careful, following circumstances,。
thinking that we're following Jesus.。
Following our observation and the results。
of what we've observed,。
thinking that we're following Jesus, right?。
Like if Jesus is leading us to green pastures,。
like it talks about in Psalm 23, we're happy,。
we're sprinting towards the green pastures,。
towards the comfort of the green pastures,。
towards the water and the stillness。
and the restoration of our soul.。
Easy to follow Jesus then,。
but then at the same, Jesus that we follow。
leads us out of green pastures。
and into the valley of the shadow of death.。
And as soon as he leads us there,。
if we're honest, it gets a little bit,。
not so quick to run into that with him, are we?。
I think just that little analysis shows us。
that we have to be careful not to follow the situation。
or the circumstance while thinking。
that we're following Jesus.。
And Ananias would have been in this exact same position,。
right, he's following Jesus into a conversation,。
into an encounter with a murderous man。
who has full authority,。
who has come into his city for people like him.。
He is going into the most dangerous position。
he's been in yet.。
This is what it would mean for him to follow Jesus.。
And we're gonna find ourselves at this crossroads。
where we're gonna have to ask ourselves,。
are we gonna follow observation?。
Are we gonna hesitate because it looks dangerous,。
because there's a price to pay?。
Are we only gonna follow Jesus。
when the situation looks good,。
when the circumstances look favorable,。
when we can observe it and come to the conclusion。
that it looks okay?。
Or are we risking not following Jesus at all?。
And I wanna be clear, so please don't get me wrong here.。
I'm not saying that we can't have,。
that we can't use our powers of observation.。
I'm not saying that for Ananias,。
he should have been like, oh, this is easy,。
ha ha ha, I'll just go.。
Like no, he's human, it's actually dangerous.。
It's factually a dangerous situation.。
Our ability to observe isn't being removed。
because we're Christians.。
Our ability to feel isn't being removed。
because we're Christian.。
God's not asking you not to feel, he gave you feelings.。
He's not asking you not to observe,。
he gave you the powers of the observation.。
But he is saying that you won't always。
be able to follow them.。
At some point, the way of our feelings。
and the way of Jesus will clash.。
We can find ourselves on opposite ends,。
where Jesus is calling us and where we feel。
might end up being opposed one day.。
And it's in those moments that we have to recognize。
that sometimes feelings are meant to be felt。
and not followed.。
When things appear one way, we have to know。
that God isn't calling us to follow the appearance.。
Uncharted is an invitation to lean。
not on our own understanding, but to lean on him.。
And the heavy reality is that we are at risk。
of not actually following Jesus,。
but following circumstances.。
And I know for all of us here,。
we're here because we want to follow Jesus, right?。
We want to be a disciple, we want to follow him well,。
but the temptation is so subtle.。
It can be so easy to find ourselves slightly off course,。
following the wrong thing,。
responding and making decisions out of fear。
or out of what we observe。
versus off of where God is calling us to go.。
I mean, think about Ananias for a second here.。
If we look back at verse 13,。
look at what he is tempted, how he responds.。
He says, "Lord," Ananias answered,。
"I have heard many reports about this man。
"and all the harm he has done to your holy people。
"in Jerusalem.。
"He even has the authority from the chief priests。
"to arrest anyone who calls on your name."。
Ananias is observing, he's aware,。
he's counting the costs.。
He's recognizing that this is gonna be challenging.。
"Lord, this is a hard thing.。
"Are you aware of it?"。
Saul is notorious for killing.。
Saul has all the equipment and all what's necessary。
to arrest me and take me back.。
He's been given authority.。
"Lord, this man, I've heard about him.。
"Everything Ananias says," check this,。
"everything he says in his response is true.。
"Every feeling he's feeling, it's true.。
"He's not wrong anywhere here.。
"Yet there's a difference in acknowledging。
"the difficulties ahead and responding by following them."。
There's a difference in recognizing。
that it's gonna be hard versus saying,。
"Hold on, Jesus, maybe I can't do that."。
Ananias is faced with this exact same thing.。
Uncharted is this, it's not an invitation。
into favorable circumstances.。
It's an invitation to follow the sovereign Jesus。
who has victory over both the favorable。
and the unfavorable circumstances.。
That make sense?。
Then I think we have to get our heads around this。
because I remember when Pastor Andrew shared it。
with the staff, what this whole uncharted vision was.。
He talked about like a ship and we're going forward.。
And as we were brainstorming, in my mind,。
all I think about is like a ship going into fog,。
having no idea what's coming.。
That's not necessarily a favorable circumstance。
or a situation.。
And if we're expecting rainbows and butterflies。
and ease, honestly, we're gonna find ourselves。
hesitating to respond to Jesus。
when he calls us to sacrifice anything.。
So we have to be able to get that picture clear.。
Because Ananias is a disciple of Jesus,。
because he follows Christ alone,。
he's willing to take on the danger ahead of him.。
And when we follow Jesus alone,。
we too will be given the strength that we need。
to be able to step into uncharted seasons,。
into the known dangers, but with confidence。
because our sight and our eyes are fixed,。
not on the conditions ahead, but on the person,。
on Jesus, the victorious Jesus,。
who's overcome everything, all things,。
even the conditions of the journey ahead.。
The decisions that we are willing to make。
will show us what it is that we are following.。
I find it fascinating, Ananias reminds God of Saul's CV.。
His record.。
He's like, God, you know the reputation here?。
This dude is good.。
I've heard, not a few, I've heard many reports.。
Lots of people are saying it, God,。
that this guy's dangerous.。
This is a risk to me, God.。
He's coming for people who are just like me.。
He's left his town and come looking for me,。
and here I am being sent to him?。
That doesn't make a lot of sense.。
It's not very logical.。
Why would you do that?。
I wonder if Ananias is like, God, did you get the wrong Saul?。
Did you mean like the other Saul?。
Like the good guy Saul?。
The not so murderous Saul?。
It's in moments like this, we have to realize。
that there's a sacrifice involved in following Jesus.。
Disciples of Jesus have to be willing to。
and will be required to sacrifice.。
But how does God get us from the point,。
gets Ananias from the point where he's like,。
oh my goodness, have you heard of the rumors?。
Have you heard the many stories?。
Have you heard of his authority?。
How does God get Ananias from that to obedience?。
Look at what God says back to Ananias.。
He says, "Go, this man is my chosen instrument。
"to proclaim my name to the Gentiles。
"and their kings and to the people of Israel."。
Now, if you're tracking with this, you'll realize,。
just like God, he actually doesn't address。
any of the concerns that Ananias just asked about.。
Ananias is like, have you heard the stories, God?。
Do you know he's dangerous, God?。
Do you know he has authority, God?。
And God is like, go.。
What?。
You're gonna answer my questions?。
No, he's like, go, go forward.。
This man is this, this man is that.。
Can we appreciate that God never assures Ananias。
of the outcome to him personally?。
All of Ananias' concerns are about how Saul could hurt him。
and the danger and the persecution that he can inflict。
and has been inflicting.。
And when God answers him, he says, go.。
This is what I'm going to do.。
Isn't that interesting?。
That God is about to require Ananias to sacrifice。
a couple of things, his comfort, his observation,。
his perspective, his control of what he thought。
his life would look like and how it would all play out.。
It's wild to me because in order to get Ananias。
to be at that point of considering the cost,。
God does not assure Ananias.。
He does not assure him he'll be okay.。
And I'll be honest, that's what I would be looking for.。
If God was like, promise, go put yourself。
in this real difficult situation that could lead。
to you being captured and taken away,。
I'd be like, all right, God, first of all,。
tell me I'll be all right.。
Tell me I'm good.。
Tell me nothing bad is going to happen to me.。
Tell me my bank account will be okay.。
Tell me that the persecution won't be too bad.。
Tell me my family will be safe.。
Tell me my life as I've ever always dreamed it。
and the things that I want for myself。
are still going to happen.。
That would be the conditions, conditional faith,。
that I would have if I'm not proud of it.。
That's my natural response.。
We want that assurance.。
And how many of us would be the same thing?。
Like, yes, God, I'll step into this uncharted season。
knowing that these difficulties lie ahead.。
If you'll tell me, everything will be okay.。
If you'll promise me I'll still stay safe,。
that there's no chance of failure,。
that nothing will go wrong,。
that my life as I expect it will carry on.。
At that point, here's the question.。
Is there any faith involved?。
Does the scripture tell us that without faith,。
it is impossible to please God?。
God does not give him the assurance.。
I think that's very interesting.。
God sees his desire for assurance。
and instead he chooses by answering and saying this.。
He says, "This man Saul is my chosen instrument。
"to proclaim my name to the Gentiles。
"and to the world."。
God takes a man who's looking for assurance。
and instead shows him his purpose.。
He says, "Consider the purpose, Ananias.。
"See how I see Saul differently than you.。
"That I see Saul as my vessel,。
"that I've actually chosen him.。
"And I want him specifically to be the one。
"who takes my good news to the world.。
"He takes my good news to the Gentiles。
"and to their kings and to Israel."。
Unifying Gentiles and grafting them into the family of God.。
We, if you're here today and you're not Jewish,。
you are a by-product.。
Your faith, the fact that we can be in this。
is a by-product of what God was going to do with Saul.。
God had massive plans for this guy.。
See, the cost is often associated with the value.。
This is just basic stuff for us, right?。
Cost is often associated with value.。
God doesn't call us to sacrifice for no reason。
or simply because it's the religious thing to do.。
No, the cost indicates that there's value。
on the other side.。
So he shows Ananias the value by showing him the purpose.。
And it does make me wonder how many of us,。
how many of our fears and our hesitations。
to respond to Jesus with a costly sacrifice。
needs to be seen from a place of his purposes。
rather than our assurance.。
We can still feel the feelings,。
but would we be more willing to step into uncharted spaces。
knowing that God isn't randomly leading us there,。
but instead has valuable purposes planned?。
Because the cost is there because there's value.。
God's not wasteful.。
So it's natural for us to ask, okay, cool,。
so what's the purpose, promise?。
For the challenges that are ahead of me,。
the things that I'm wrestling to step into obedience with,。
what's the purpose?。
Tell me the purpose so I can be like an Ananias。
and just go straight to Saul.。
I must confess, actually,。
God doesn't tell us the purpose all the time.。
He doesn't always give you the full rundown。
of this is how it leads to this,。
and here's how it connects,。
and here's how the church is gonna be born,。
and here's the mission trip that's gonna take place.。
He doesn't show us all of that all the time.。
Most times he's not gonna show us that.。
No.。
But to the believer, to the disciple,。
to the follower of Jesus, the call is enough.。
Because if we know him,。
if we know his purposes in general,。
and when I say in general,。
I don't mean to water it down like,。
oh, they're not that specific.。
In general, meaning his purposes for all of his creation,。
like the grandness, the size and scope of his purposes.。
If we know that, it's to bring justice to the marginalized,。
it's to bring hope to the hopeless,。
it's to bring light where there is darkness,。
it's to bring restoration and to set captives free,。
to elevate the goodness of God,。
to bring truth to areas where there are lies.。
If we recognize and remember his purposes,。
what will that do?。
If we remember his purposes,。
see, if we forget his purposes,。
it becomes nearly impossible to sacrifice.。
If we think it's just a hard season,。
or it's just a really hard thing,。
and I don't know how to do it.。
If we can't see that God is doing something bigger,。
it becomes nearly impossible for us to sacrifice.。
Again, I'm gonna quote Andrew.。
I feel like I'm plagiarizing, but it's okay.。
He is here right in front of me,。
and he read this beforehand, so it's all right.。
Last week, he said something about persecution。
that I thought was really good.。
He talked about how one of the things we can do。
towards the end of his sermon,。
he talked about some of the things。
that we can do, some practical steps for us.。
One of those things was deepening our roots, right?。
And one of the ways he said we can deepen our roots。
is if we got to know, became more familiar with God again.。
So I'm gonna add to it.。
So it's not full plagiarism.。
It's just adaptation.。
I would say that, yes, become more familiar with God again,。
but also become more familiar with God's purposes again,。
because we won't be willing to suffer for what we don't know,。
for what we do not love.。
That's a crazy thing to suffer for anyways.。
Who would do that?。
We've got to become familiar with his purposes again.。
When we consider what his purposes are,。
what it really looks like for the kingdom of God。
to step into our city, into our families,。
into our workplaces, into our wider communities,。
the goodness and the faithfulness and the love of God。
to permeate the spaces that we're in.。
If we can be reminded of that picture again,。
we remember that it's the waters that are uncharted.。
It's the space that's uncharted, not God.。
He's quite clearly revealed.。
So there's no fear of uncharted waters.。
That's too big because we know who God is,。
because he's been revealed,。
because his purposes have been revealed.。
When we consider and remember his purposes,。
I pray that we see there's no cost that's too steep,。
because God is good, because his plans are good.。
His ways are good.。
His desire and his purposes for creation,。
for all of this is good.。
Here at the Vine, when we consider the worthiness of God。
and his purposes, would it be enough to call us。
to a place of responding and costly sacrifice。
where we trust him?。
That we too would be so aligned。
with where God is taking the world,。
the goodness he is bringing, the restoration and the hope。
and the joy that he's bringing through his people,。
that we would be so in love with his vision for humanity。
and its flourishing, that we would say,。
"No, we insist on paying a price.。
"We insist on participating in what God is doing.。
"We will not give sacrifices and offerings。
"and lives that cost us nothing."。
Because for Ananias, this was enough.。
God shows him purpose,。
Ananias trusts God with his costly sacrifice.。
And like we see, Paul ends up stepping into this world。
where he does immeasurably more than anyone could ever。
thought the Holy Spirit achieved so much。
through this one vessel.。
And I feel like with Ananias,。
he could have never imagined the scope of the impact of Paul.。
Could have never seen that from his one moment。
in conversation with God.。
No, what he was faced with was simply a moment of examining。
where his trust really was.。
The transformation of Saul to Paul。
would have not been a result of a sacrifice。
of only knowing things about God.。
That's not what's required.。
That's not what's asked for.。
It's not about Bible trivia or perfect attendance。
or how many ministries you serve on.。
The costly sacrifice God required of Ananias。
and he requires of us is belief through obedience.。
Costly sacrifices always lead us to examine。
where our trust really is.。
We can say that we trust and love him。
until we're blue in the face,。
but until we live in obedience,。
responding until we choose to sacrifice, it's just words.。
It's just information.。
It's just knowledge。
in an already oversaturated information age.。
The persecution comes for us all, but costly sacrifice,。
that's something you have to choose to do.。
That's a decision you have to make.。
That's a response you have to make.。
And that's why we have to get to that place。
where our belief isn't simply information。
that we possess about God,。
but it's evidence through the choices that we make.。
Our belief is evidence through the things we stand up for,。
the risk we're willing to take,。
the known spaces of danger and challenges。
that we're willing to walk into if Jesus leads us there.。
The uncharted waters we're willing to follow Jesus into.。
Disciples who trust in God must act upon that belief。
and trust that we possess.。
James would say this in the New Testament,。
that our faith or that our deeds is dead,。
empty, meaningless, useless, does nothing.。
We've got to be able to act in response。
to the belief that we possess.。
As the band come up, I wanna read you this quote。
by Dietrich Bonhoeffer, who was just a brilliant mind.。
He was too smart.。
I can't, we've been reading his book together。
and I'm still stuck on chapter two。
and it's a really long book,。
but I can't like understand it enough.。
His words are very big,。
but he actually really helps us get an understanding。
of what it means to be a disciple.。
He says this, "With an abstract idea,。
"it is possible to enter into a relation。
"of formal knowledge, to become enthusiastic about it,。
"and perhaps even to put it into practice,。
"but it can never be followed in personal obedience.。
"Christianity without the living Christ。
"is inevitably Christianity without discipleship.。
"And Christianity without discipleship。
"is always Christianity without Christ."。
So to follow, to be a disciple of Jesus。
in uncharted spaces and seasons,。
we have to be a people who more than just agree。
on the nice things that we find about Jesus in the Bible。
or the nice things that are there,。
but rather we have to choose the sacrifice。
of trusting Jesus, even when it costs us dearly.。
My question to church is where is your trust today?。
What standards or perspectives do you adhere to?。
Do favorable and unfavorable circumstances。
make you risk adverse to hindering。
or hinders you following Jesus?。
Do we potentially lean too much on our own understanding,。
on our own observations, on our feelings?。
My prayer is this, that may Christ remind us all。
of his purposes, of his goodness,。
of just how much this world needs his kingdom。
and what those tenets of his kingdom truly are.。
May we be reminded of his purposes,。
may we be reminded of his kingdom breaking into our spaces,。
into our city.。
May the purposes of God bring us joy.。
May it brings us to a place where we're willing to trust,。
wherever he leads us, to offer up costly sacrifices,。
to offer up our bodies as a living sacrifice,。
holy and acceptable unto God,。
to offer all that we have, all that we are,。
in view of his goodness and in view of the mercies of God.。
Let me pray for us, will you stand with me?。
Jesus, we thank you for your word and we ask Holy Spirit,。
well first we recognize Holy Spirit,。
the cost of discipleship is steep.。
What it means to follow you is costly and sacrificial.。
So Holy Spirit, would you begin to show us now。
if there are areas in our lives where。
we have been following comfort,。
we've been following prosperity,。
we've been following the easy road,。
we've been following our dreams,。
whether we've been following you.。
If there's ways in which we've somehow mistaken。
following you for following favorable situations。
and circumstances, Holy Spirit,。
would you begin to separate the two?。
Would you begin to illuminate Jesus to us,。
make it clear who you are and what it means。
to follow you and you alone?。
God, would you make Jesus a priority to us?。
God, it's impossible to follow two things.。
We either follow Jesus or we don't。
and God, I pray that your Holy Spirit。
would begin the work of reminding us。
of what it means to follow you.。
God, I pray for all of us who step into these seasons。
where we have to weigh where our trust is.。
We have to consider and count the cost of following you,。
the cost of obedience.。
God, I just pray for your help。
in choosing only you.。
I pray that in these moments when the cost is high,。
that you would remind us of your purposes,。
that you would give us a vision for a flourishing humanity,。
even here in our city.。
You'd give us a vision for flourishing families,。
flourishing communities, flourishing relationships,。
for your ideals and what you are working this world towards,。
the goodness and the joy and peace you are bringing.。
God, I pray you'd give us a clear picture of this。
and inside our hearts to be aligned to the things of you,。
to be in love with the things of you。
as we weigh the cost, as we consider how to follow you。
even into dangerous known situations.。
Would you be glorified and would you lead us?。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
