A while back, actually it's a long time ago,。
I was in a conflict.。
And it wasn't one of those conflicts where one time something happens,。
but it was a conflict that just kind of kept meandering along.。
Like, one thing happens, another thing happens,。
and another thing happens that make you upset.。
And I got to the point where I was just fed up.。
I had it. I had enough.。
So this person was so rude, so inconsiderate,。
you know, how dare they.。
And I don't know, I can't remember exactly what happened,。
but I was challenged, either by a friend or through a book。
or something I was doing, I was challenged。
to pray a prayer of blessing over this person.。
And I was like, that is the last person。
that I want to pray a prayer of blessing over.。
I didn't want to do it.。
But eventually I did it anyhow.。
So I prayed for this person, and I was having problems with。
a blessing over them.。
And I don't remember how many times I prayed this,。
but at one time, while I was praying,。
the Holy Spirit suddenly highlighted to me。
and gave me insights into a lot of pain and difficulties。
that this person had gone through.。
And that really allowed me to have a different level。
of compassion and care,。
because it provided context for how they were acting towards me.。
Now, don't get me wrong.。
I still believe that as adults, we're responsible for how we act,。
and we need to own our actions and everything.。
But it still was helpful to understand the context,。
and it gave me a lot of compassion and care.。
And eventually it really changed my outlook on the person.。
I started looking at the person in a different way.。
Now, what had happened?。
Well, instead of looking at the person through my human wisdom。
and my human understanding,。
when I prayed, God gave me spiritual sight.。
He let me see this other person through his eyes。
instead of just seeing them through my eyes.。
And that was so powerful because it allowed me to suddenly。
be more patient, to show more grace,。
to be more understanding,。
but then also eventually to be able to forgive。
and to really just move forward.。
You know, it's amazing, right?。
When God gives us spiritual sight,。
when he gives us a faith perspective,。
how we suddenly can navigate,。
you know, something where we only had one way of looking at it,。
we're suddenly able to navigate it differently,。
and it can make all the difference.。
Now, we all in our lives, in big ways and in small ways,。
we have situations, circumstances。
where we're looking right now at them。
from a human perspective with human wisdom.。
And that's okay because we're human。
and we should use our human perspective.。
We should use our human wisdom.。
But I really have the sense,。
as I was writing this sermon series and preparing this for us,。
that God wants to give us spiritual sight this year,。
that he wants to give us a deeper faith perspective。
of what he's doing, of what is going on,。
so that instead of just seeing the things。
through our limited lens,。
that we can have a fuller perspective,。
that we can understand what God is doing,。
that we can face, if it's a challenge,。
that we can face the challenge with hope,。
with courage, with perspective and trust in him,。
or if it's an opportunity。
because it can also be positive things, right?。
That we also know how to walk,。
how God is leading and what he wants us to do.。
And so I want to explore with you。
the following question that's this.。
How can I cultivate spiritual sight。
in approaching and understanding my life?。
How can I gain a greater faith perspective?。
How can I more consistently see things。
through the eyes of faith?。
And how in the world do you do that?。
What does that look like?。
And how might God invite you。
to have deeper spiritual sight this year?。
So I'm excited about this.。
We're continuing in our sermon series, Bold in Prayer.。
Last week, we looked at Matthew 9,。
where we talked about that Jesus,。
as he was seeing the crowds and was seeing their needs,。
and they were helpless and they were rest,。
he invited the disciples to pray。
for the Lord of the harvest to send out,。
to cast out, to thrust out workers into the harvest field.。
And I really believe that part of that is,。
part of that thrusting out is that actually。
God also gives us different spiritual sight。
so that we start looking at our days,。
at our routines, at the people around us in different ways.。
And we can understand where he's at work。
and where he's inviting us to partner with him。
in the work that he is doing.。
So that's what we looked at last week.。
Today, we are in 2 Kings.。
I want to provide a little bit of context for you.。
And I'm going to start by looking at a map。
that I stole from Pastor Ivan that he used this morning.。
I was like, "Oh, this makes it a lot easier。
to explain what I want to explain."。
So let me use the same map.。
So 2 Kings to give a little bit context。
since we are not consistently right now。
walking through the book of 2 Kings.。
So first there's a reign of King Solomon。
and also the demise of that.。
There's a separation of Israel being one nation。
to being two kingdoms, Judah and Israel.。
So the Southern kingdom, the Northern kingdom.。
We're going to pick things up。
around the ninth century before Christ,。
where the prophet Elisha, he is in Dothan.。
I want to say Gotham, but it's Dothan.。
You know, Germans have problems with T-H.。
Dothan.。
And we're also going to be looking at Samaria,。
which was the capital of the Northern kingdom.。
And its King Jehoram is Israel's king.。
He's actually not even mentioned in the passage。
that we're going to look at by name.。
Let me go to the other side.。
All right.。
And then we're going to look at King from Aram。
who was raiding, attacking, warring with Israel.。
So this is the broad context.。
There's a lot more going on,。
but I think that gives you a little bit of an idea。
of what's going on.。
So let me take you to 2 Kings 6.。
We're starting in verse eight.。
It says this.。
Now the King of Aram was at war with Israel.。
After conferring with his officers, he said,。
"I will set up my camp in such and such a place."。
I think it's very cool that the Bible uses the word。
such and such.。
Verse nine.。
The man of God sent word to the King of Israel,。
"Beware of passing that place。
"because the Arameans are going down there."。
So the King of Israel checked on the place。
indicated by the man of God.。
Time and time again, Elisha warned the king。
so that he was on his guard in such places.。
Now it's enraged the King of Aram.。
He summoned his officers and demanded of them,。
"Tell me which of us is on the side of the King of Israel."。
"None of us, my lord," said one of his officers.。
"But Elisha, the prophet who is in Israel,。
"tells the King of Israel the very words he speak。
"in your bedroom."。
"Go find out where he is," the king ordered.。
"So I can send men and capture him."。
The report came back.。
He is in Dothan.。
Then he sent horses and chariots and a strong force there。
and they went by night and surrounded the city.。
So we're told King of Aram, he's picking a fight.。
He's warring against Israel.。
He makes all these amazing plans。
with his officers in the war room.。
But for whatever reason, his plans are always thwarted.。
The King of Israel is always able to avoid him.。
So they're not able to catch him.。
They're just always able to escape.。
And so the king realizes this,。
I mean, this is beyond coincidence.。
One time, okay, two times, okay, three times, okay,。
four times, come on.。
Who's the leak?。
Who's the mole?。
And so then he's told that it's not any of his officers,。
but it's a prophet, Elijah,。
and that he knows the very words。
that are spoken in the bedroom of the king,。
which is very creepy.。
But what that means is if Elijah, the prophet,。
knows what is spoken in the bedroom,。
that means he knows everything.。
He can hear everything.。
He can perceive everything.。
God has given him supernatural sight, supernatural insight。
into what's going on.。
And so the King of Aram decides we're gonna go after him,。
but I just wanna highlight a contrast here.。
The King of Aram has no idea where Elijah is,。
while Elijah knows everything about the King of Aram.。
So he even needs to send out a spy to figure out。
where he is to send someone there.。
And so then he sends the troops, horses, chariots,。
that would be the equivalent。
of the most modern military equipment there is.。
I have no idea what the most modern military equipment is.。
I assume it's like drones and helicopters。
and things, but they're sending like。
their special forces there.。
And that's a bit of overkill for catching one person,。
but the King is so frustrated。
that he's like fully going for it.。
Let's continue in verse 15.。
"And when a servant of the man of God got up。
"and went out early in the morning,。
"an army with horses and chariots had surrounded the city.。
"Oh no, my Lord, what shall we do?。
"The servant asked, don't be afraid.。
"The prophet answered, those who are with us。
"are more than those who are with them.。
"And Elisha prayed, open his eyes, Lord,。
"so that he may see.。
"Then the Lord opened the servant's eyes and he looked。
"and he saw his hills full of horses。
"and chariots of fire around Elisha.。
"So now instead of seeing things。
"from the Arameans perspective,。
"now the narrative shifts and we get to see things。
"from Elisha and his servant's perspective.。
"We get to see things from their point of view.。
"And so Elisha's servant gets up, he steps outside。
"and oh my gosh, oh no.。
"That's what he says, oh no.。
"They are surrounded by enemy forces.。
"Like I said, it's the most modern military equipment.。
"So this is intimidating, this is scary.。
"He is freaked out.。
"And so he calls out, oh no, my Lord, what shall we do?。
"So he calls out to the man of God,。
"who also of course indirectly represents God, Elisha.。
"Like, oh no, what shall we do?。
"Now it would be easy to just pass over this really quickly,。
"this oh no moment.。
"But when you and I go through an oh no moment,。
"it doesn't usually just pass quickly.。
"It actually really occupies us,。
"we're really challenged with this.。
"And so I don't want us just to pass over it quickly.。
"Because the truth is that there is something。
"that every one of us at one point or another,。
"we feel surrounded, we feel fenced in.。
"We are overwhelmed by the challenges。
"that are going on in our lives,。
"where we also, like the servant Elijah,。
"have an oh no moment.。
"Where there are things we see。
"and we do not know the way out.。
"We do not know what to do.。
"We have no answer, we have no way forward.。
"So that is what the servant Elijah is seeing.。
"He's seeing enemy forces on the hills,。
"they're surrounded and they're about to get them.。
"And so then he calls out to Elijah.。
"And Elisha responds, don't be afraid.。
"Those who are with us are more than those who are with them.。
"Now I have a question for you.。
"If you're overwhelmed, if you are freaked out。
"about the challenges in your life。
"and somebody just tells you, don't be afraid,。
"how do you feel about that?"。
Might be annoying, right?。
Let's be honest.。
And we do that a lot in church, right?。
We tell each other things are true,。
but sometimes we just don't wanna hear them.。
"Don't be afraid."。
He's like, "How can you tell me not to be afraid?。
"There's like horses and chariots all around us。
"and we're about to be in enemy's arms。
"and we're about to be taken captive.。
"Like what in the world are you talking about?。
"Elisha, are you crazy?。
"And by the way, what do you mean。
"that those who are with us。
"are more than those who are with them?。
"What do you mean by that?。
"What does it even mean?。
"Who are you talking about?"。
That's probably how I would have reacted.。
And so what Elijah's servant doesn't know。
is that Elisha has spiritual sight.。
He's able to see what is going on around him,。
not just from a human perspective,。
but from a supernatural perspective.。
He understands how God is at work in the moment。
and that makes all the difference.。
And so he prays for his servant's eyes to be open.。
So in verse 17, it says,。
"And Elisha prayed, 'Open his eyes, Lord,。
"so that he may see.'。
"Then the Lord opened the servant's eyes,。
"and he looked and he saw the hills full of horses。
"and chariots of fire all around Elisha."。
So Elisha prayed for spiritual sight for his servant,。
and God opened his servant's eyes,。
and he suddenly was able to see the circumstances,。
the situation that he's in, that he's facing,。
from a completely different perspective.。
While just a moment ago he's crying, "Oh, no,"。
and he's overwhelmed and there seems to be no way out,。
now his eyes are opened and he sees those who are with us。
are more than those who are with them.。
And he sees the chariots of fire,。
he sees the heavenly hosts, the heavenly army。
outnumbering the enemy that is there to get him.。
Wow, what a perspective, what a change in perspective.。
And you know the words, "Do not be afraid that he spoke,。
"that at first might seem annoying."。
Now that his eyes are open,。
ooh, I do not have to be afraid,。
'cause these words of do not be afraid,。
they're not just wishful thinking,。
they're actually based in the reality。
of who God is and what God is doing.。
Can I get an amen, come on?。
Amen, yes.。
And so, so he does not have to be afraid,。
and you know this is true for us as Christians,。
because what we see is not everything that is going on,。
there is a spiritual reality, Psalm 34 verse seven says,。
you know that the angel of the Lord。
encamps around those who fear him.。
So if you're walking with God,。
the angel of the Lord surrounds you and encamps you.。
God is with us, you know, we are not alone, he is for us.。
And that's another thing in a situation,。
it's not just that he gets to see,。
but it also means that God is with Elisha and his servant,。
they are not alone, and neither are you and I,。
we are not alone, God is with us,。
and he is for us, even more than we can imagine or think.。
So God is for you, and he's greater and more powerful。
than you can think or imagine.。
I mean, I don't know about you,。
when you walk around through your day,。
if you have in mind who God is constantly。
in all his fullness and all his glory and all his power。
and all his majesty and all his love, I don't,。
I want to, but truth be told, I don't.。
So God is more powerful, more loving, more caring。
than you and I can imagine,。
and he is at work in our lives,。
just as he is at work in the life of Elisha。
and his servant in this moment.。
But let's continue and see what happens.。
Verse 18, "As the enemy came down toward him,。
"Elisha prayed to the Lord,。
"strike this army with blindness.。
"So he struck them with blindness, as Elisha had asked.。
"Elisha told him, this is not the road,。
"and this is not the city, follow me,。
"and I will lead you to the man you are looking for.。
"And he led them to Samaria.。
"So after they entered the city,。
"Elisha said, Lord, open the eyes of these men。
"so that you can see.。
"And the Lord opened their eyes and they looked,。
"and they were inside Samaria."。
Now remember, Samaria was the capital。
of the northern kingdom.。
They're inside the capital of the enemy.。
And Elisha had led them there.。
So we're told that Elisha prayed a second time,。
so they do attack.。
So just because we know who God is,。
that he's powerful and great,。
doesn't mean that we still go through。
whatever challenge we're facing,。
but we can walk through it differently。
because we know the power of God,。
we know who God is, and so we can face it differently.。
And so as they are coming at him,。
he prays and God answers his prayer,。
and he strikes them with blindness.。
Now what's interesting is,。
and I didn't catch this on multiple readings,。
only after I read some commentaries and things,。
is that actually the blindness that is talking about here。
is not physical blindness.。
You're like, what do you mean not physical blindness?。
Well, the Hebrew word that is used here,。
sanverim, it's a very rare word.。
It's not the normal word that is used for blindness.。
It's actually only used three times,。
twice in this passage, once in Genesis.。
And it means blindness, dazzling, and deception.。
And so in NIV, it's translated as blindness,。
but if we look at the context,。
I think we can see that something else is going on.。
Elisha asks them to follow him,。
that he's gonna lead them to who they're looking for.。
How can they follow him if they can't see?。
And this is still, I think it's like 11 miles or something,。
so it's still quite a stretch.。
Secondly, he's telling them,。
oh, this is not the road and this is not the city.。
They were just looking at the city.。
They were just on the road.。
Just because you're physically blind suddenly。
doesn't mean that somebody can tell you。
this is not the road, this is not the city.。
So something has changed in the perception.。
They have distorted perception.。
God has blinded them from the reality。
of the situation that they're in.。
And so then Elisha is able to lead them。
into the city, into Samaria,。
which is the hub of Israel,。
into the enemy from the Arameans' perspective,。
the enemy's territory.。
And then he prays for them again and their eyes are open.。
And now they can see where they're at.。
And that's for them an oh no moment.。
So earlier we had the oh no moment for Elijah's servant,。
now we have the oh no moment for the Aramean soldiers.。
Let's continue in verse 21, see what happens.。
So when the king of Israel saw them,。
he asked Elijah, shall we kill them?。
My father, shall I kill them?。
He's like very eager.。
Do not kill them, he answered.。
Would you kill those you have captured。
with your own sword or bow?。
Set food and water before them。
so that they may eat and drink,。
then go back to their master.。
So he prayed a great feast for them,。
and after they had finished eating and drinking,。
he sent them away and they returned to their master。
so the bands from Aram stopped raiding Israel's territory.。
I mean I can only imagine what it must have been like。
as these soldiers, as their eyes are opened。
and they're like oh my goodness,。
no we're in enemy territory, we're surrounded.。
And there's a king who's like drooling。
over the opportunity to kill them.。
But since they were not the king's prisoners,。
they were Elijah's prisoners,。
he actually, I believe also through spiritual sight,。
through what God had revealed to him,。
he shows them mercy and grace,。
and that then allows them that this conflict,。
at least for a while, actually does continue eventually,。
but for a while this conflict ends between Israel and Aram.。
Now this whole passage is,。
there's two dynamics that I wanna highlight.。
The first one is that it's all about sight.。
You know Elijah sees and knows the plans。
and knows what's going on and what they wanna do.。
And the king of Aram, he doesn't know,。
he doesn't have sight.。
Then the military, they surround Elijah and a servant。
and the servant doesn't have sight。
and then God gives him sight and then they take away,。
so as you see it's all about vision。
and seeing and not seeing.。
And this brings me to a second point is,。
all of this also shows that God is sovereignly。
over the situation.。
There are politics going on,。
there are world powers or regional powers here。
in this case fighting,。
but God is sovereign in the midst of this conflict。
and is working out his purposes and what he desires,。
what he wants comes to pass.。
And there's a third thing I actually wanna highlight to you。
and that is that is a relationship between Elijah and God。
because we see Elijah pray three times,。
open his eyes, blind them, open their eyes.。
And Elijah is walking in this relationship with God。
and that's why he has spiritual sight。
about what's going on.。
Now, of course, this leaves us at the point。
of asking question, what does all of this mean for us?。
This brings us also back to the earlier question。
that I asked, how can we cultivate spiritual sight。
in approaching and understanding our lives?。
How can we start not just looking at our circumstances,。
our challenges from a human perspective,。
which we again still should because God has made us。
and given us that, we should use our human reason。
and wisdom and all of those things,。
but how can we also look at things with spiritual sight?。
With eyes of faith or see things through the eyes of God?。
Now, how do you do that?。
Well, there's three things I wanna highlight.。
The first one is this really happens。
through a relationship with Jesus.。
Now, if you wanna have spiritual sight,。
if you wanna understand what God is doing,。
if you wanna see beyond just the physical reality,。
you need to know Jesus。
'cause when you become a Christian,。
actually even talks about it,。
it'd be move from darkness to light。
or from spiritual blindness to sight,。
it's part of how the Bible describes even conversion。
or coming to faith, you gain a different perception,。
a different perspective of reality。
because now you can see things through eyes of faith.。
You can see that Jesus really is the Savior,。
that he is God's son, that he did die, that he did rise,。
that he is powerful over death, over sin,。
that he is able to forgive us。
and you can all see this because you are a Christian.。
But then just because we're a Christian。
doesn't mean that we always have spiritual sight.。
I mean, earlier I was telling a story of me,。
I was in this conflict and I was not having spiritual sight.。
I was having just my human perspective of what was going on.。
And so we need to nurture our relationship with God。
to develop the sight.。
And so as our relationship and intimacy with God grows,。
so does your spiritual sight grow.。
So if you wanna have spiritual sight,。
we did invest time in our relationship with God,。
which we're doing right now through his fasting season.。
Now coming before God with our fasting, with prayer,。
with reading of scripture, with worship。
or whatever else you're doing.。
But then the second thing is that the way we gain more sight。
is through God's word,。
'cause God's word is God's revelation to us.。
It's how he has shown us who he is,。
how powerful, how mighty.。
He has shown us his love.。
He shows us his purposes that he has for us。
through his word.。
And so if we don't know his word, we have limited sight.。
But as we get to know God's word,。
he wants to give us more of a faith perspective。
'cause we know God's revelation more。
and we can see things differently.。
We can see things through a lens of faith.。
Now, as I was thinking this through,。
I was reminded of Psalm 119, 105.。
"Your word is a lamp for my feet and a light on my path."。
It's like we're walking around in darkness。
because we're not seeing everything.。
But as we go into God's word。
and the Holy Spirit illuminates God's word to us,。
we can start seeing who God is.。
He speaks to us even directly about things that are going on。
and gives us an understanding.。
And it's like light on a path.。
Like before you're working in darkness,。
now as you're gaining sight,。
you're working in darkness,。
now as you're getting to know God more through his word,。
it's like your path lights up,。
you're more clear on where to walk and what to do.。
And so if you wanna grow in sight,。
you need to spend time in God's word.。
And he wants to light up your path。
in the way that he has for you,。
whether it's in challenges, whether it's an opportunity,。
whether that's with your dreams.。
But he will light up your path。
and he will show you a way.。
So for some of us here,。
this might be one thing that God is inviting you this year。
is to go deeper into his word.。
And when we read God's word,。
we can ask the Holy Spirit to illuminate it,。
to help us understand his word,。
to show us what it means for us.。
And he does that, he loves doing that.。
So that is the second important thing.。
That's one way that we live out that relationship。
is through his word, as we come to his word。
and ask God to help us understand and spend time.。
So we gain spiritual sight by getting to know God's word。
and the Holy Spirit illumining God's word to us.。
And finally, we cultivate spiritual sight。
and approaching and understanding our life through prayer.。
And that's really what the passage really focuses on.。
Right, it's this praying relationship with Elisha。
and between Elisha and God.。
And where he's able to see things because he prays.。
Prayer is how God gives us spiritual eyes。
to see what we otherwise would not see.。
So if we're not praying,。
there's things you're not going to see.。
God only opens those up when we pray,。
when we come to him and ask him,。
just like Elijah asked for his servants eyes to be open。
so that he could perceive that he was not alone。
in the challenge that he was facing.。
But without prayer and without praying for each other,。
so I also love that it's Elisha praying for Elisha's servant。
without praying for each other and without prayer,。
we're not gonna have spiritual sight.。
We're gonna not be able to see things as clearly。
as they are.。
We're not gonna be able to perceive all of the reality,。
all of what God is doing in circumstance.。
But when we pray, God gives us a vision.。
He gives us sight and helps us to see things。
we're otherwise not seeing.。
And so invited to pray.。
Now, I wanted to share,。
I already shared earlier the story about praying。
and God giving me eyes to see this conflict differently。
and to in the end to be able to resolve it, right?。
So it was the first thing,。
but I wanna share something actually。
that's just church plant.。
Now in 2022, that's when we announced in one try。
and the church that sent us here, the Vine,。
we announced that we're gonna be planting this church.。
And then we started meeting as a church plant team。
with like 30 people twice a month.。
And so we're gathering together,。
but we're in one try,。
but we're talking about planting in New Long.。
How in the heck is that going to work?。
And so we decide that we're gonna have a one-off barbecue。
and Sunday service at EIS International Preschool,。
which is close to Fairview Park, I think,。
I can't remember the exact little town.。
And the day before,。
where we actually were running an alpha at the same school,。
I was praying and while I was praying,。
God gave me this overwhelming sense that the next day,。
God was gonna give us a foretaste。
of what this church will be like.。
That he will sort of speaks, pull away the curtain。
and give us a vision of what the Vine in Long will be like.。
And that he was giving us this vision。
to encourage the team, the church plant team.。
Now you have to imagine, we're not a church yet.。
We're just preparing ourselves, but nothing has happened yet.。
We're in one try.。
And I really had the sense that we needed encouragement.。
We needed to be able to see.。
And so God gave us through this service,。
a picture of what this church could be like.。
And then another thing happens.。
We had problems with this venue.。
So even though we were already paying rent for it,。
we couldn't do anything。
because we were waiting for some permits.。
And so then suddenly this one off barbecue。
and this one off service, suddenly we knew a way forward.。
'Cause God gave us a way forward.。
We didn't know how to walk.。
This was not part of our plan.。
But now, because God had spoken,。
because he had given us this picture and this experience,。
now we knew what to do.。
So in January, 2023, we started meeting every week at EIS。
in that preschool.。
And guess what?。
The church started looking like that barbecue。
when we had that Sunday barbecue.。
So it's amazing that when we pray,。
that God speaks to us, that reveals things to us,。
that he gives us guidance.。
Now this was not part of our plan.。
I did have a plan on how to plant this church,。
but you have to have a plan,。
but you also have to be ready for your plan。
to completely change.。
And this was not our plan and it changed.。
But through prayer, God gave us vision。
and he gave us a way forward that we did not have,。
that I did not have, where I did not know what to do,。
but God showed us what to do.。
And it's the same way that God wants to work in your。
and in my life.。
And when we pray, he will give us sight about things。
that we otherwise will not see.。
So we know how to walk, we know what to do.。
We gain encouragement, we gain perspective.。
And so God wants to meet you when you pray.。
So we pray, so when we pray, God helps us to see things。
that we otherwise would not see.。
Now I wanna invite the worship team to come up.。
So the prophet, Elisha, he prays over the servant。
and then that he can see, and then he says,。
or before he does it, he tells him,。
"Those who are with us are more than those。
"who are with them."。
Elisha's servant, he could not see it.。
And I think there's many of us right now。
we're in situations where we cannot see what God is doing.。
We cannot see how that God is mighty,。
that he is powerful, that he is at work.。
We cannot see that God is for us, that he's not against us.。
And so we need to come with prayer。
'cause we need a word from the Lord.。
We're struggling.。
We're overwhelmed, some of us.。
And God wants to give us a word,。
he wants to give us a perspective。
so that we can move forward, that we are not hopeless,。
that we're not living just in anxiousness and anxiety,。
but that we can have faith that God will move with us,。
that he will provide with us,。
that we can have faith that he's with us,。
that we are not alone,。
that we can have assurance that he loves you.。
He loves you, he loves you.。
He has not given up on you, he is not finished with you.。
There is more ahead.。
And he has a power and the ability to provide.。
And just like Elisha's servant,。
as I was preparing his message,。
I really believe that God wants to meet us here right now。
in our oh no moments.。
(soft music)。
Some of us are surrounded。
by these heavy military forces。
and we don't know what to do.。
And we've been carrying,。
some of us have been carrying these oh no moments。
from our 2024 into our 2025.。
And for some of us, these oh no moments have come in 2025.。
We're like, that's not how we wanted to start this year.。
But I believe that God wants to meet you right now.。
He's inviting us to come to him in prayer and to ask him,。
Lord, give me sight, give me spiritual sight.。
I'm just, I'm drowning here.。
I need a word from you.。
I need you to meet me.。
I need you to give me faith.。
I need you to give me a hope.。
I'm struggling to hold on.。
I do not know what to do.。
And then as we come to him in prayer,。
he is going to release sight.。
He's going to give us words.。
He's going to give us images.。
He's gonna put people around us.。
And he's gonna show us that we are not alone,。
that he is with us, that we can make it through,。
whatever it is, whatever's going on, that he can lead us.。
And I also have the sense。
that he really wants us to know his power.。
God's power is greater。
than the impossible situation you are facing.。
He is more mighty, more powerful。
than whatever it is that you are going through.。
And he has the power and the ability。
to get you through it, to lead you through it.。
But not only is he powerful, he also is loving.。
He loves you, he is for you, he is not against you.。
(gentle music)。
The apostle Paul knew this.。
He experienced it himself in his own life.。
He didn't have an easy life if you read the New Testament.。
He went through many hardships, trials,。
unimaginably difficult things.。
And he encouraged the Roman Christians.。
In chapter eight, he says, "If God is for us,。
"who can be against us?"。
If God is for you, who can be against you?。
Come on, people.。
So part of seeing with spiritual side。
is seeing how big God is.。
God is bigger than everything.。
He's bigger than the things that appear.。
It's overwhelming to us right now.。
He's bigger than your worry。
that you hold and that you carry.。
He is bigger than your success.。
He's bigger than your failure.。
He's bigger than the temptation that you are facing.。
God is bigger, he is more powerful.。
And if he is for you, who can be against you?。
So I have a question or questions for us to reflect on.。
So what is threatening and surrounding you right now?。
What is your oh no moment that you are carrying with you?。
Where do you need spiritual side right now?。
So church, I wanna encourage you right now.。
If you need spiritual side,。
actually I wanna invite everyone to stand.。
If you need spiritual side,。
whether it's for an opportunity,。
whether it's for a challenge,。
wanna encourage you to stretch out your hands。
right now before you.。
And I wanna ask the Lord for you and pray over you.。
Let me pray.。
Jesus, I thank you that you are mighty and powerful.。
I thank you that you are greater than any of the challenges,。
any of the circumstances that we are facing right now.。
Lord, you see the Austrian hands.。
There is struggle, there is difficulty,。
there is challenge.。
But Lord, I pray right now by your Holy Spirit,。
will you come, Holy Spirit come.。
Will you move?。
Will you provide?。
Will you raise faith where there hasn't been faith。
in a long time?。
Will you pour out your love?。
Where we feel like you have not loved us,。
you have forgotten us.。
Lord, will you make your love known right now?。
Will you make that a lived reality?。
Where there's fear, will you speak the words of us?。
Do not be afraid,。
because I am with you, you are not alone.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Give us eyes to see.。
Lord, we need you.。
Give us vision.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Amen, amen.。
Let's worship church.。
