Well, we all daydream, every single one of us.。
And so one recurring daydream that I used to have is that I was rich,。
successful, had a big house or maybe multiple homes, cars,。
I'm surrounded by people, and I'm feeling like I've made it.。
I've arrived, I've proven myself.。
And if I'm really honest, that's not where the daydreaming stopped,。
it actually even went further.。
It also involved me talking to some people who maybe didn't believe in me。
and telling them how amazing and what amazing things I accomplished。
or certain people for whatever reason that I want them to be there,。
that they also overhear or see whatever I have to say.。
And then suddenly, while I'm feeling good about myself,。
I snap out of my daydream, it's over and I'm back to reality.。
Anyone with me?。
Okay, a few, thank you.。
I think there's more, but I appreciate your daydreaming,。
you shared it with me.。
But I actually want us to think about what do you daydream about right now?。
And what recurring theme is there?。
Actually, take a moment to think about this.。
Alright, I just trust you know what you daydream about,。
so you could get it quite quickly.。
Well, our daydreams, they're actually not random.。
Now, some of them are, I'm sure some daydreams are totally random.。
But the ones that are recurring,。
they actually speak of a longing that is inside of our heart.。
They speak of something where we think that if this will happen,。
then I'm going to be fulfilled, then I will feel good,。
then I will experience joy in my life.。
And we dream of relationships,。
we dream of, like I said, success and material things,。
like an amazing car.。
But here's another question for you.。
If your daydream would be fulfilled,。
like if actually everything you daydream about would happen,。
would this longing in your heart still be there?。
Or would it be satisfied?。
And I believe that while there is satisfaction in some of those things,。
let's be honest,。
I still think that that longing in your heart would still be there.。
I think it would not fully go away.。
And so what I want to do with you today is I want to explore with you a question.。
Where do we find satisfaction for our deepest longings?。
You know, where do we go?。
And how do we receive that?。
Like, what are we supposed to do?。
And so today we're continuing in our I Am Christmas Advent Sermon series,。
where we are going through parts of the Gospel of John.。
The Gospel of John doesn't have a birth narrative like Matthew and Luke from Jesus,。
so it doesn't tell the story of how Jesus was born.。
Instead, it has a theological opening to the book that the Word became flesh。
and made its dwelling among us.。
So Jesus was born and dwelt among us.。
And then throughout the Gospel, there are these I Am statements.。
There's actually seven of them, and we're looking at five during this series.。
And in these I Am statements, Jesus declaring who he is, why he has come,。
what he wants us to know and understand about him.。
And so as we're going through Christmas, you want to look and understand,。
why do we celebrate Christmas? Why did he come?。
And so that's what we're doing in this series.。
I hope so far it's been helpful for you.。
I've been enjoying it.。
But I want to set the context for today's passage.。
We're in John chapter 6.。
Now, Jesus has just done this absolutely incredible miracle.。
There was 5,000 people, or actually probably more like 20,000 people,。
because when the Bible talks about 5,000 people,。
it just lists the head of the households.。
And so there was probably 20,000 people out in the wilderness,。
and they have no food.。
And Jesus takes a little bit of bread, takes a little bit of fish,。
and he multiplies it.。
I mean, an incredible miracle.。
Unbelievable. Amazing.。
And people are amazed.。
They're actually amazed so much so that they want to force Jesus to be king。
because they want him to make more bread for them.。
And so Jesus withdraws. He goes to the mountain.。
His disciples, they end up taking a ship to Capernaum,。
but Jesus stays back.。
Then another miracle occurs.。
Jesus walks on water, and he actually goes to Capernaum.。
So there's two miracles within a short period of time.。
And in Capernaum, so he's there.。
The next day, the people wake up, and they try to find, "Where's Jesus?。
Where did he go? We're in the middle of nowhere."。
They slept there.。
And then boats from Tiberius arrive.。
They get into the boat.。
They're searching for Jesus.。
They go to Capernaum, and they find him.。
And that's where we're going to pick things up.。
So we're in John 6, verse 25.。
It says this, "When they found him on the other side of the lake,。
they asked him, 'Rabbi, when did you get here?'。
Jesus answered, 'Very truly I tell you,。
you are looking for me not because you saw the signs I performed,。
but because you ate the loaves and had your fill.。
Do not work for the food that spoils,。
but for food that endures the eternal life,。
which the Son of Man will give you.。
For on him God the Father has placed a seal of approval.'。
Then they asked him, 'What must we do to do the works God requires?'。
Jesus answered, 'The work of God is this, to believe in the one he has sent.'。
So they asked him, 'What sign then will you give。
that we may see it and believe in you?。
What will you do?'。
Our answer is, 'Eat the manna in the wilderness.'。
As it is written, 'He gave them bread from heaven to eat.'。
Jesus said to them, 'Very truly I tell you,。
it is not Moses who has given you the bread from heaven,。
but it was my Father who gives you the true bread from heaven.。
For the bread of God is the bread that comes down from heaven。
and gives life to the world.'。
'Sir,' they said, 'always give us this bread.'。
Then Jesus declared, 'I am the bread of life.。
Whoever comes to me will never go hungry,。
and whoever believes in me will never be thirsty.'。
So today the 'I am' statement that we're unpacking is。
the 'I am the bread of life,'。
where Jesus is saying, 'I'm the one who satisfies these longings,'。
these things that we're trying to grab hold of when we daydream。
and we hope they're going to bring us that fulfillment.。
But what's interesting is, leading up to this declaration from Jesus,。
there's this dialogue back and forth.。
You see it as I was reading.。
There's all these questions that the crowd's asking Jesus,。
and he patiently engages all these questions.。
In the pastures that we see from the crowd that's asking these questions,。
we actually see three ways of relating to Jesus。
that keep us from receiving the fullness, the joy,。
the contentment that Jesus actually wants to give us.。
So what I want to do with you,。
I want to look at these three ways of how we relate to Jesus。
that kind of undermine that,。
and then of course also look at how we receive this life that Jesus has to offer.。
So let's look at the first one.。
When the crowd finds Jesus in Capernaum, and I love this,。
they're like, 'Hey, Rabbi, when did you get here?'。
It's like, 'Hey, what's up? Small talk, yeah, nice weather.'。
And then Jesus, and I love Jesus with this when I read the Gospels,。
he doesn't answer that question.。
He doesn't tell them when he got there.。
'I got here at 3 p.m. or a.m. at night.'。
He doesn't do that, but he cuts right through it。
because he knows why they're there, and he says this.。
He says, 'Very truly I tell you, you are looking for me。
not because you saw the signs I performed,。
but because you ate the loaves and you had your fill.'。
So Jesus discerns, 'They're talking to me because they want more bread.'。
But what's incredible is they actually are missing what the sign points to,。
this miracle that Jesus said points to.。
This multiplying of bread points to that Jesus is the Messiah,。
that he's God with us, but they're not seeing that.。
What they're seeing is dollar signs.。
'He can make some bread, and we can make some money,。
and it's going to be great.'。
Now, one thing we have to realize is at the time。
that people spent 80% of their income on food.。
Just think of your paycheck right now.。
Take 80% away from that, and think of that that was needed。
just to put food on the table, just to survive.。
Now, for some of us, that actually might be our reality even here.。
But there are quite a few where that's not the case,。
where the money we spend on food is much smaller.。
So we can understand why this is a huge deal。
that Jesus has multiplied and made all this bread.。
This is a big deal.。
So they're like, 'All right, Jesus, you're going to make this bread.。
We're all going to be able to save all this 80% that we need to spend on food.。
And then after we save a little bit, we can buy some chickens.。
And then we can buy some lambs.。
We can buy a field, and we can get this business going.。
It's going to be amazing.'。
But you know what the problem here is?。
That the people are coming to Jesus。
because they want to fulfill their own agenda.。
They're actually not interested or care about who Jesus is.。
They're just coming to Jesus with their own plans.。
Now, actually, wanting to start a business, there's nothing wrong with that.。
It's actually a blessing.。
It's a good thing.。
And wanting sheep and wanting chickens, that's okay.。
We can actually bring those things to Jesus.。
But the problem is that when we only approach Jesus。
with the purpose of having him help us achieve our goals。
and accomplish our own ends,。
then we miss out on what Jesus truly has to offer,。
which is a life-transforming relationship with him.。
So Jesus calls out the crowd's treatment of him in this.。
And he does that with you and me as well.。
Now, I don't know if you've ever been used。
where somebody just had an agenda and didn't care about you.。
I've experienced that.。
I was in university.。
A friend was getting married in Alaska.。
He was Alaskan.。
So I flew there for the wedding, hung out with a group of people.。
We had a good time.。
Then I went back to university, Portland area.。
A few months later, I hear from one of the guys, "Hey, Tim.。
Hey, I'm flying down with my father-in-law on a private plane.。
We're going to land close to you.。
I would love to talk to you about a business idea.。
Would you have time to meet up?"。
And I have to admit, I was flattered.。
Ooh, private plane.。
You're flying to visit me.。
What business idea is this?。
Is this what I've been waiting for and dreaming for。
to make my daydream come true?。
So I meet up with him.。
He tells me about this business, and he gives me some samples.。
I'm like, "Oh, great."。
He's like, "Think about it. I'll come back in a week."。
I was like, "Okay, sounds good."。
So I'm trying to sort out what I make of this.。
So I talked to a business professor that I was studying under.。
She's like, "Tim, this is a permit scheme."。
So if you're not familiar with a permit scheme,。
it's like basically you buy stuff,。
and then you try to get other people to buy stuff,。
and then they try to get people to buy stuff,。
and every time the permit expands, there's a kickback up to you.。
But a lot of times, most people don't make money with that.。
They just get stuck with a bunch of products that they never sell.。
Their house.。
And so the friend comes back, and he tells me,。
"So, do you want to join in?"。
I was like, "No, I decided not to."。
And then he asked me for the samples back,。
and I was like, "Oh, I thought they were free. Okay, sure, here you go."。
He was kind of angry and cold, and just then left.。
I never heard from him again.。
So all he cared about was getting his business going,。
but he didn't care about me in any way or form.。
And we kind of do that to Jesus.。
We come to Jesus that he can fulfill our agenda,。
that he can make our dreams come true.。
And like I said, we can actually bring things that we desire to Jesus.。
We don't have to be embarrassed to ask Jesus.。
Some Christian environments, you get scolded for coming to Jesus。
and asking for things, but if you miss the person,。
if you don't care about who Jesus is, you're missing all of it.。
So that's the first way of relating to Jesus that the crowd does.。
They're there, they just want bread, they don't care about anything else.。
And when you do that, you miss out on what Jesus has to offer。
and what he wants to give you, which is a life-transforming relationship.。
So that's the first thing.。
Let's go to the next one.。
So Jesus is still responding to the, "Hey, when did you get here?" question.。
We're still on that. I haven't gotten very far.。
Verse 27, he says this.。
"Do not work for food that spoils, but for food that endures eternal life,。
which the Son of Man will give you.。
For on him God the Father has placed a seal of approval."。
So Jesus is telling the crowd, "Stop chasing and working for these material things."。
You know, it's stuff that spoils, it's stuff that doesn't deliver.。
It just maybe satisfies a little bit, but then you have to do it all over again.。
Instead, get this life that I have to offer.。
Receive that, go after that, chase that.。
Now, again, it doesn't mean we're not supposed to work and put food on the table.。
Obviously, we need to do that, we should do that.。
That honors God, we're created to be people who work and do creative things.。
But if we think that the material things that we're working for,。
that they're somehow going to fill our hearts and make us whole,。
and make us worthy, and make us good or joyful,。
then if that's what we think, and we're chasing after that,。
and we're trying to achieve that,。
we're actually putting our hope in a false thing.。
And I think we all know that because we all look, we all do that.。
Everyone, pastors, everyone, we think that these things,。
that they're going to make us content, that they're going to make us feel good.。
And it kind of usually goes like this.。
We say to ourselves, "I know what's going to make me happy.。
I know what's going to make me feel good, feel fulfilled, feel whole.。
It's if I have this.。
And then once I have this, then I'm going to be okay.。
Then I'm going to be fine, it's going to be amazing, it's going to be great.。
My whole life is going to be turned around."。
Maybe it's a PlayStation 5.。
That's a little dream, right? That's pretty achievable.。
Maybe it's a flat, owning a flat in Hong Kong.。
Oh, that's expensive.。
Maybe it's that specific designer purse or dress.。
Maybe that's been sitting in your cart, your online shopping cart.。
You're just waiting to click that button.。
But we do that with things. I did that.。
I had friends who had these amazing leather jackets when I was a little bit younger.。
And I was like, "Man, I want this amazing leather jacket.。
If I have this, it's somehow going to make me feel good.。
And I'm going to be cool."。
Which I wasn't.。
So I bought this leather jacket, which was way too expensive.。
I actually couldn't afford it.。
So I'm struggling because I buy this leather jacket.。
Then I was scared to wear it, because it was so expensive.。
So then I only wore it a few times.。
I did enjoy it when I wore it, and it definitely did not deliver on the coolness factor.。
Total bust on that.。
Did it make me happy? Did it bring some joy?。
It brought some joy.。
But it didn't deliver on what I thought it would.。
It always falls short. It never fully delivers.。
But we go through these cycles.。
We pick this thing, like the leather jacket or whatever it is for you,。
and then it stirs the heart like, "Man, if I only had this, I'm going to be okay.。
I'm going to feel good. I'm going to be whole."。
And then if we're able to achieve it,。
when we actually get it, we always then start looking for something else.。
Eventually.。
Now, there's a lot of dreams we don't achieve, so we're still under the illusion。
that if we were to get that, it actually would make us happy.。
Like maybe being ultra successful, being part of 0.0000001%.。
Well, that's how many people achieve that, right?。
So it's not very many.。
Even if we were to achieve that, it still never fully delivers.。
It's a lie that we believe. We all believe it.。
At some point or another.。
Sometimes we're not aware of it, sometimes we're not.。
So Jesus is saying, "Do not work for food that spoils,。
but for food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you."。
It's not the material things that satisfy your deep hunger.。
It's Jesus.。
And Jesus is saying, "Come and receive from me the life that truly satisfies.。
Come receive it from me."。
But let me ask you this.。
What have you been obsessing over lately?。
What is that one thing that you are convinced will finally make you content?。
What has made you angry when it didn't work out?。
It's also a sign that you're looking for something to give you something.。
When it doesn't work out, you get really upset, you get really angry.。
I've experienced that anger not that long ago.。
I was trying to purchase something and it fell through.。
I was so angry.。
I was surprised at my emotion actually.。
I was like, "Whoa, where is this coming from?"。
So I was like processing it.。
After a while I was like, "Oh my gosh, I've made this thing an idol.。
I thought that this thing can give me something that only God can give."。
So I want to give you this definition from Tim Keller of an idol.。
I'm sorry for jumping around all over the place in my message,。
which you guys don't know, but he knows.。
So Tim Keller says this, "An idol is anything more important to you than God,。
anything that absorbs your heart and imagination more than God,。
anything you seek to give you what God can only give."。
The stuff we daydream about, that grabs our imagination,。
that we think is going to deliver.。
And Jesus says, "Don't go after that, it never fully delivers.。
Come and receive from me the life that truly satisfies."。
But let's continue to the next one.。
So Jesus challenges the crowd to work for the food that endures.。
And they pick up on the word "work." "Oh, work," he said, "work."。
So they ask someone, verse 28, "What must we do to do the work that God requires?"。
Essentially they're asking for a checklist.。
Tell me what to do so I can get what I want.。
So I know what to do to earn this favor with God.。
And I love how Jesus flips the script on them.。
And we can easily read over this, and I actually didn't notice what happened.。
So in verse 29 he says this, he confronts them in their thinking.。
He says, "The work of God is this, to believe in the one he has sent."。
They're asking, "What do we need to do?"。
And he starts talking about what God has done.。
He has already achieved so that we can just receive.。
But we're asking, "What can we do to earn this right standing with God,。
to make stuff happen in our lives?"。
And he's actually saying, "There's nothing you can do."。
It's actually part of the gospel message.。
"There's nothing you can do out of your human strength。
to get into a right relationship with God. Nothing."。
It sounds maybe kind of depressing.。
But it's the truth, because we can't earn it.。
But Jesus has gone to the cross.。
He has achieved forgiveness。
so that we can be brought into this relationship with God.。
We can only just receive it.。
And it's actually humbling, because we have no bargaining chips.。
We come empty-handed to God, but he loves just giving us his grace.。
All we need to do is believe and receive.。
Just come to Jesus and receive.。
And so we relate to God, trying to achieve, and it's exhausting,。
trying to be a good boy and a good girl.。
And when we try to do that, when we try to earn things with God or earn favor,。
man, it is so tiring.。
And we get depressed, we get anxious.。
And he's just, "Come. Rest. Receive."。
So, now, where does all of this leave us?。
We talked about where do we find satisfaction for our deepest longings.。
What do we do?。
I said there are three ways that relate to Jesus that don't really work.。
The first one is we try to fit Jesus into our agenda,。
and we miss out on the relationship with him.。
The second one is we put our hope in things。
and believe that they can give us what only God can give us.。
And then the third one is we put our trust in ourselves.。
We think we can save ourselves.。
We can earn the right side, and it's just exhausting.。
It just leaves us tired.。
So, how do we receive what Jesus has to offer?。
Well, let me continue in the text, but I'm going to just summarize a little bit.。
So, he tells them to believe.。
They're like, "Well, if you want us to believe, then basically do another sign,。
like God did for Israel, or Moses did in the wilderness while we were wandering,。
and we got manna."。
In some sense, it's ridiculous because Jesus has actually just done。
the miracle of multiplying bread.。
Now they're asking for another sign in order to believe.。
Then Jesus, he responds this way, and in verse 32 he says this,。
"Very truly I tell you, it is not Moses who has given you the bread from heaven,。
but it is my Father who gives you the true bread from heaven.。
For the bread of God is the bread that comes down from heaven。
and gives life to the world."。
So, Jesus creates this contrast between manna and himself.。
Manna makes you hungry again.。
When you feed on me, you never hunger again.。
I am the true bread from heaven, and the true bread from heaven is not just for Israel,。
but it's for the world.。
And he gives it. He loves giving it.。
So, then in verse 34, "Some people in the crowd," not everyone,。
because if you read on past verse 35, that's where we're going to stop,。
you see that not everyone responds to the word "some."。
They say, "Sir." They said, "Always give us this bread."。
Now what's interesting is that the word that's translated here as "Sir" is actually curious.。
And it means "Sir, Lord, Master."。
And there actually has been a shift in some of the people in the crowd,。
because earlier on they called Jesus "Rabbi," "Teacher."。
And now they call him "Lord."。
And I love this, because Jesus has been patiently engaging their questions,。
engaging how they're trying to relate to him,。
and keep trying to point him towards how to receive from him what he has to offer.。
And now a shift has occurred, where they went from seeing him as a teacher。
to seeing him as a Lord, and he says,。
"Give me, or always give us this bread. We want it."。
And they're doing essentially what Jesus asked them to do,。
which is to come and to receive and believe.。
And then we get to verse 35, where Jesus says,。
"I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me will never go hungry,。
and whoever believes in me will never be thirsty.。
I am the one who fully satisfies.。
I am the one who fills that longing that nothing else fills."。
I am the one who can bring deep joy even as we walk through difficult things,。
where it doesn't even make sense that there's any joy in our lives.。
But it's because you have feasted on the bread of life,。
because you have come to Jesus.。
And so the remedy for our brokenness, our tiredness, and emptiness。
is found when we come to Jesus in faith.。
We commune with him, and our relationship with God is restored.。
Now, a lot of times, we see this coming to Jesus。
and receiving what he has to offer.。
We see this as an ending, like finishing a race instead of a beginning.。
So when we see it as an ending, it's like, "Well, I've arrived.。
There's nothing else anymore for me to do.。
I received this bread. I received this life that Jesus has to give."。
And there's some truth to that.。
There is a shift.。
Even the Gospel of John talks about we cross over from death to life.。
Something spiritually has shifted. We are born again.。
But what Jesus invites us into is not just a finish line,。
but instead it's a beginning of a relationship with him。
where we commune with him.。
And as I was preparing for today, I really felt that God was saying。
he wants us to commune with him.。
Because even if we're Christian, it doesn't always mean we're spending time with him.。
Think of me and my family.。
So I have my wife, Chris, and I have Ellie, my daughter.。
Now, we live in the same flat.。
But I, even though we live in the same flat, I could not spend time with them.。
I could just be doing my own thing.。
But if I do that, I actually miss out on the joy。
that is brought to me when I spend time with my wife and my daughter.。
Now, just this week, I'm very busy. I'm a man who has a lot going on.。
But I always try to make my family a priority and time with my daughter a priority.。
And so this Saturday, I had some time, was it Saturday or Friday?。
I played with my daughter.。
And she was chasing me, and then she wanted me to chase her.。
And I'm out of shape, so she's getting me tired, making me run around.。
Suddenly you have all these other kids who are joining in, they're chasing me.。
And then whenever I'm chasing Ellie, they're all chasing Ellie.。
And spending that time with my daughter just creates a deeper love,。
a deeper attachment to my daughter, a deeper joy.。
And in a similar way, when we actually commune with our Savior,。
it grows our love for Him.。
And these other lesser things that we're still often attached to,。
these things that we put our hope on, they become less important.。
Because we know who truly fulfills.。
They start fading more in the background.。
But right now, I think for many of us, and if we're just honest,。
that's not where we're at.。
We've crossed the line, some of us crossed the line,。
or we've seen it as a finish line instead of a beginning of a relationship.。
And Jesus is saying, "Come to me, feast on me, commune with me.。
I want you to experience the full satisfaction that is in me."。
The full contentment, the full joy that I have to offer.。
So you don't have to chase after these other things anymore.。
So I want to invite a worship team to come up.。
We're going to move into a time of celebrating communion.。
Now, most of the time we do communion, we pass the bread and the wine around,。
but today we're going to do it different.。
We're actually going to celebrate communion by inviting you to come forward.。
And I want to do a little traffic flow here.。
So when we celebrate communion, wherever you're sitting,。
please go to the back and come forward this way, and then go to the sides.。
And you can come any time.。
You can take the bread and the wine any time.。
But I want to just say a few more things about that.。
First, the bread symbolizes Jesus' body given for you, because he loves you.。
The cup of grape juice, it symbolizes Christ's blood poured out for you,。
for the forgiveness of your sins.。
And Jesus is inviting us. He's saying, "I am the bread of life.。
Whoever comes to me will never go hungry,。
whoever believes in me will never be thirsty."。
And he's inviting us to come and to feast with him, to commune with him,。
to spend time with him, to receive from him.。
And we don't come because our life's cleaned up and we're perfect.。
We come because we need Jesus. We need his grace.。
And it's like when we come and we commune with him,。
and we receive what he has to offer, the grace,。
that's when our life changes.。
Now, as I've been talking, maybe something stood out to you。
as a way of relating to Jesus where we've been off.。
Maybe it's a talk we need to have with Jesus,。
"Jesus, I'm sorry that I'm angry when these things haven't worked out in my life.。
I see that I've made them idols."。
Or maybe it's just a deep gratitude of the work of Jesus in our lives.。
So I just want to encourage you to actually spend some time preparing,。
giving God thanks, maybe sorting something out in your hearts before you come.。
And if you're not yet a Christian, but you feel a tug in your heart,。
you can actually come and take communion as your expression。
that you want to begin a relationship with Jesus.。
So let me pray over us, and then we're going to have just some space。
where you can come forward.。
But let me pray for us.。
Jesus, I thank you so much that you are the bread of life.。
I thank you that you are the one who truly fills that void in our lives。
that can give us peace, that can satisfy our deep longings,。
and in whom we can find peace and rest and stillness.。
And Jesus, you know our heart is wondering.。
We're all over the place, and we constantly look to other things.。
But I just pray that as we come that you just pour out your grace over us,。
that you reveal your love, and that as we commune with you,。
that all these other things, that they start fading away,。
that they become less significant because you are the bread of life.。
And so we thank you, we worship you, and we're just humbled。
and become empty-handed, but we come now to receive Jesus.。
I pray this in your name. Amen.。
