Well, welcome to The Vine.。
If you're new, we're so glad that you're with us here this morning.。
If you are back with us for the first Sunday of 2026, maybe you were traveling last week,。
but you're back here this Sunday.。
We're so glad that you're back with us.。
Last week, I started the year by explaining a little bit around the season that we feel。
like as a leadership here at The Vine, that we feel God wants us and the focus really。
that he wants us to start this new year with.。
And that is by teaching into the context of seasons of waiting.。
And so much of the songs that we were singing here this morning and the devotions, if you've。
been listening to them throughout the week, this week, we're really leaning into the reality。
that for many of us here, we're either currently in a season of waiting or we are about to。
go into a season of waiting.。
Some of us have perhaps been in those seasons of waiting for a long period of time.。
And as a leadership, as we were praying about the start of this year, we felt like the Lord。
is saying, "I want to minister to people in the place of waiting.。
And I want to particularly minister pastorally to them and compassionately and powerfully。
renew their strength."。
And so what we're going to be doing over this month of January as we're fasting together。
is we're going to be leaning into this idea of this place of waiting.。
And we explained last week that we human beings, we don't like to wait.。
But in our modern context, in the world in which we're living in right now, we really。
don't like waiting.。
In fact, we've come to see waiting in the modern perspective as failure or as punishment.。
Like if we can't get something and get it quickly, once we've ordered our coffee, we。
wanted to come fast.。
Once we've purchased something, we want to be able to get hold of it straight away.。
As human beings, we place in our modern context a really high value on receiving things quickly.。
And the issue for us Christians, as we were talking about last week, is we've brought。
this into our Christianity.。
We brought this into our faith.。
And so we expect God to act and act immediately.。
That surely if God loves me, surely if God is the person of the scriptures, surely if。
his character and his nature is how we see it to be, then God should act and act immediately.。
And when God doesn't act immediately, we want an upgrade.。
We struggle with it.。
And I think as Christians, here's what we do.。
We do one of two things or we do both of them.。
We either begin to doubt God and begin to question his character or we doubt ourselves。
and we question our character.。
Or perhaps there's brokenness in me.。
Perhaps there's too much sin in me.。
Perhaps I haven't prayed enough.。
Perhaps I haven't given enough.。
Perhaps I haven't done or gone to church enough or whatever it is.。
But we either begin to blame God or we blame ourselves when we as Christians don't receive。
from God what we think we should receive from him in the timeframe that we think he should。
give it to us.。
And we saw last week that there are over 200 scriptures in the Bible about seasons of waiting.。
And if you do a survey of all of those scriptures, you'll come to see that when the Bible speaks。
of seasons of waiting, it predominantly speaks about them as a gift, which is not how I feel。
about my seasons of waiting in my life.。
But scripture says it's a gift.。
It's a gift because you get to encounter something of God's character that's perhaps different。
from what you've ever felt.。
That you get to see something fresh about him.。
That in stripping away maybe some of that immediacy that we so often live off in our。
modern context, we begin to lean in more to a desperate desire to God to meet us.。
I said last week that sometimes seasons of waiting are actually healthy for us.。
They force us to slow down.。
They help us to strip away some of that ugly self-dependence that we can have upon ourselves.。
It causes us to realize that we're actually not God.。
That we do need something outside of ourselves to meet us and strengthen us and help us and。
guide us through life.。
Seasons of waiting are a gift.。
And we said last week that one of the most beautiful ways that you see that is through。
Psalm 27.。
And Psalm 27 is the Psalm that we're going to be sitting in over the next four weeks。
as we unpack this beautiful Psalm of King David.。
And I showed us last week that right at the end of the Psalm, he says, "Wait for the Lord."。
He says, "Take heart and have strength and wait for the Lord."。
And interestingly, the word "wait" there, as we talked about last week, is the word。
"kavah" in Hebrew.。
It literally means this, to gather together, to bind together, and to look and to expect.。
Which is really different from how we often think about seasons of waiting.。
That in the Hebrew mindset, a waiting is to gather together all of your hope, all of the。
facts, all of the stuff that's happening in life, and look and expect and have a expectancy。
within you that God is about to do something.。
But in our modern context and how we often think about waiting, we think about waiting。
as inactivity.。
That waiting is like this place of like, "Oh, I'm in a waiting.。
I can't do anything.。
I have to wait."。
That's not how the Hebrews thought of it.。
They thought about waiting not as this like, "Oh my gosh, I can't do anything."。
They thought about waiting as like, "I am expecting that God is going to act.。
He hasn't acted yet.。
I'm waiting, but I'm expecting that He will do so."。
So in Hebrew thinking, waiting is not inactivity or it's not idleness.。
It's active anticipation of change.。
Think about that for a sec.。
That waiting is active anticipation of change.。
And oh yes, I would love that change to happen today.。
I would love for my prayers to be answered straight away.。
I would love for that healing that I'm looking for to come into my life immediately.。
But when I wait, as I'm waiting on the Lord to respond to those prayers and do what only。
He can do, I have within me an active anticipation that change is coming.。
Come on church.。
I'm not sitting around idly, inactive, or wallowing in my own self-pity and denial.。
Waiting in the Bible is a prophetic act.。
It is God's people leaning forward in excitement and anticipation, not disregarding the reality。
that waiting is hard, not ignoring some of the emotions that come alongside of longer。
periods of waiting, but believing that Yahweh is active.。
And if He's active, then I stand on an active anticipation within myself that God is going。
to come through.。
I hope it's today, but if it's not, I will lean in to the season of waiting with faith.。
That's very good news, isn't it?。
No?。
Is that very good news?。
It's very good news, but it's not always comforting news.。
It's not always comforting news because I don't know about you, but when I go through。
my seasons of waiting, I'm in one right now, as I'm going through seasons of waiting myself,。
it's hard.。
It's painful.。
It's challenging.。
It's difficult.。
And so what David does in Psalm 27 is something quite beautiful.。
Psalm 27 is broken down, it's a poem, and it's broken into four stanzas.。
In each of the stanzas, particularly when you see it in the Hebrew, David provides a。
negative aspect of waiting, which is great because that connects with all of us, but。
then he shows his antidote to it.。
He teaches us that, yeah, there are these four negative things that happen when we wait,。
but yet here's the way in which we can encounter those things and turn them around so that。
our waiting is an anticipation of change and not a wallowing in self-pity and denial.。
And so over the next four weeks, we're going to step through each of these different stanzas。
of the poem, and we're going to draw out for you what the negative thing is, but then we're。
going to show you what David's antidote to that is, and I believe that this is going。
to be super important and helpful for any of you in seasons of waiting.。
And today we're just going to look at the first stanza, the first three verses of Psalm。
27.。
Is everybody okay?。
Let me read this to you.。
The Lord is my light and my salvation.。
Whom shall I fear?。
The Lord is the stronghold of my life.。
Of whom shall I be afraid?。
When evil doers came upon me to devour my flesh, my adversaries and my enemies, they。
stumbled and fell.。
If an army encamps against me, my heart will not fear.。
If war rises up against me, in spite of this, I am confident.。
There's this phenomena in Bible study and scripture reading that sometimes interpretation。
of a passage actually goes in the opposite direction to what you think.。
Sometimes the end of a passage helps you to better understand the start of the passage.。
This happens a lot in poetic words within scripture, that often in a poetic form of。
Hebrew there's parallelisms and symbolisms, and sometimes you need to get to the last。
part of the thought to really understand the first part that was given.。
Interestingly, this is also seen in the New Testament.。
The apostle Paul was a beautiful writer, and there's a number of passages in Paul where。
actually you have to read through the whole passage and kind of get to the end of the。
passage before you can fully begin to really understand what is happening at the start.。
And I think David is doing something here in this.。
In fact, the end of these verses helps us to understand the fullness of the impact of。
the first.。
So what I want to do with you today is actually start in verse 3, and I want to work our way。
back to verse 1.。
He says this in verse 3.。
If an army encamps against me, my heart will not fear.。
If war arises against me, in spite of this, I am confident.。
I love what David does here.。
Throughout the Psalm, there's imagery of war and there's imagery of battles, which makes。
sense.。
This is King David.。
He's experienced a lot of war and a lot of battles in his life, and so he's explaining。
it.。
But I want you to notice something really important about verse 3.。
He's talking about the context of war, but interestingly, he's not talking about a battle。
that is happening.。
He's not saying, "I'm right now in this war," or, "This battle's happening."。
He's saying this, "When an army encamps around me," he says, another way of reading the Hebrew。
in the second part, "If war arises against me or if rumor of war comes against me."。
He's talking about this.。
He's like, "You want to know when I'm really afraid?。
You want to know when anxiety really builds in me?"。
It's actually not in the fighting of the battle.。
It's not actually in the war itself.。
When I get really anxious, when I get really afraid, it's when the army has encamped around。
me, but they haven't attacked yet.。
When I hear rumor of war, but the war hasn't happened yet, he's like, "That's when I feel。
it."。
In other words, it's in the waiting for the attack to come that I feel more fear than。
I actually do in the battle itself.。
He's like, "You want to understand one of the things that's happening for all of us。
in seasons of waiting."。
See, in the waiting, and there is this anticipation within us of what's about to happen, that。
is sometimes so much worse than the eventual reality of what actually takes place.。
That's classic anxiety.。
But it's not actually in the eventual reality that is as worse as we thought it.。
It's the wait that makes it feel a lot more worse.。
Does that make sense?。
So he's saying, "Here's where fear, here's where anxiety," which is the first of these。
negative aspects of waiting, "Here's how it gets into us.。
It gets into us because in the wait, we spiral in what we're thinking about the actual outcome。
that will happen to us."。
You'll understand this if you've ever had a doctor say to you when you go in for a test。
something like, "Well, you've either grazed your knee or it's cancer."。
Have you ever had a doctor say that to you?。
Like it's either one extreme or the other, right?。
Like it's either something really easy or something not really good at all.。
Oftentimes we might have this in cancer.。
And then we're going to take some blood tests, and in a week's time, we're going to come。
back to you and tell you the results.。
That week, I don't know about you, but that week is where the anxiety and fear comes to。
me, right?。
Not necessarily when the result comes back, but actually in the waiting of the result。
because here's what happens.。
We as human beings, we spiral in our thinking, and as we're waiting for the doctor to get。
back to us with the results of the blood test, we begin to think the worst case scenario。
is going to happen.。
Anyone connecting with this?。
Or perhaps there's a hard conversation you need to have with somebody at work, and you。
aren't able to have that conversation for another week, but you begin to spiral thinking,。
"Man, their reaction is going to be far worse than I thought it was going to be."。
And actually, in the end, when you have the conversation, their reaction is really not。
that bad, but your thinking in the wait created it to be way worse than it was in the reality.。
Following?。
Or perhaps you're praying for a spouse, or you're asking for a new relationship in your。
life, and the wait has gone on, and it's gone on, and it's gone on, and you're beginning。
to feel this anxiety within you that you will never find that person, that you will never...。
When the wait extends, the spiraling gets worse and worse and worse.。
And David's saying to Israel, "You want to know when I feel fear?。
It's not necessarily when the battle's happening.。
It's before the battle.。
When they've encamped around me, the night before the attack is far worse than the attack。
itself."。
One thing we have to understand is that before we fight a battle in the flesh, we have to。
first fight the battle that's in our minds.。
That's the first thing we have to realize in seasons of waiting, that actually the battle。
that truly is going on, it's not necessarily the battle of the circumstances and situations。
around us, as much as that might be.。
It's the battle that is happening in our minds.。
It's the way that we think.。
It's the spiraling that is happening.。
As the wait increases, the negativity takes root.。
The battle that you really need to fight is, first of all, in your mind.。
And David's saying, "That's where I've found it really hard.。
That's why seasons of waiting are really challenging, because I know what it is to feel that anxiety。
building within me."。
He says to his people, "It's on the eve of battle where we have to really do the fighting。
in the battle of our minds."。
Some of you here, that really resonates with you, because I think you really know personally。
what that mental and emotional battle is like.。
You understand that challenge that there is in seasons of waiting when we begin to think。
things are way worse than perhaps they will ever end up actually being when the time finally。
comes.。
And David, in introducing to us this anxiety of waiting, offers two solutions to it.。
So this is resonating with you, and you're thinking to yourself, "I have this battle。
in my mind.。
I know what it is to go around and around, and I feel that David's got two things that。
can help set you free, two things that can still the war that is taking place in our。
minds as we spiral with anxiety and fear."。
The first of these is found in verse 2.。
He says this, "When evil doers came upon me to devour my flesh, my adversaries, and my。
enemies, they stumbled and fell."。
It's really beautiful what David does here.。
If you read it in some of the more modern translations, they don't capture the kind。
of past tense that the Hebrew is written in, but you've got to read it in this way.。
When evil doers came upon me in the past to devour my flesh, my adversaries, and my enemies,。
they stumbled and they fell.。
So I want you to see what David is trying to teach his people here.。
He's like, "Here's the first thing you have to realize if you want to win the battle in。
your mind in seasons of waiting.。
It is this, that God has acted in the past, and he says to himself, he says, 'Hang on。
a sec.。
Right now, these new armies, they've encamped around me, and I'm feeling this anxiety and。
fear because I'm thinking the worst thing will happen.'"。
He goes, "But in the past."。
This is not the first time people have warred against me.。
This is not the first time that enemies have encamped around me.。
This is not the first time that there's been rumors of war against me.。
Now I can remember back to just a couple of years ago when it happened before then and。
God came through.。
I can remember back to that battle that I thought was going to take place, and God scattered。
the armies.。
I remember when they started charging at us, they stumbled and they fell.。
When God did it in the past, I need to remember that because what God did before, I believe。
he can do again.。
So what David is trying to stir up with his people is, he's like, "You've got to remember.。
You've got to remember."。
But here's the important thing.。
You see, one of the most destructive things about fear is that it creates forgetfulness.。
Come on, church.。
One of the most destructive things about fear is that it creates in us forgetfulness because。
fear is this immediacy of issues and problems, and we feel overwhelmed, and we want to retreat,。
and we want to hide.。
Anxiety makes us flight away, run away from the reality of the issues.。
Fear can be so overwhelming that it's very easy for our minds to actually forget that。
just last week, God answered a prayer for us.。
And now here we are, spiraling out of control, going, "God never answers my prayer," and。
God's like, "Dude, don't you remember last week when you prayed and I came through?。
Don't you remember two years ago when you faced the same situation at work and I spoke?。
Don't you remember that when you were lonely in that season, I brought alongside that person?。
Don't you remember?"。
And it's like, "No, we don't remember," because fear can so often create forgetfulness.。
Some of you are in a season of waiting right now, and fear and anxiety is absolutely a。
part of that journey for you.。
I want you to understand that one of the greatest tools that you have received is the ability。
to look back to the goodness of God in your past, remember that, and then see that as。
a deposit to His faithfulness for your present and your future.。
It's one of the greatest tools He's placed upon you, is your ability to remember what。
He has done for you before.。
David's like, "Here's how we fight anxiety and the spiraling of our minds, number one.。
I remember the battles when God came through.。
I'm about to face a new battle.。
Guess what?。
He did it before, He can do it again."。
Didn't we all just sing that together?。
It's easy to sing a song, it's different to actually live a life.。
Come on, church.。
It's easy for us to get excited about, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, got that."。
But when the push comes to the shove, when the rubber really hits the road, can we actually。
say these words, "I believe that He can do it again"?。
Not Andrew believes that He can do it again, not my church community believes that He can。
do it again, not even, let me say this and listen to me, that the Scriptures believe。
that He can do it again.。
I believe.。
I stand on the promises.。
I know that He has fought that battle for me before and He will fight it for me again.。
And I don't know when it will happen, I don't know how it's going to happen, and is it hard。
right now?。
Absolutely it is, but I have an active anticipation of change that the God in my past is still。
the God in my present.。
This is a principle throughout Scripture and in the New Testament, this is something really。
important for the early church.。
I want to show you a passage just quickly from Peter writing in 2 Peter chapter 3, writing。
to a church, give you the context.。
He's writing into a church that are waiting for the return of Jesus.。
So Jesus has gone to the cross, He's died, He's paid price for sin, He's raised from。
the dead, He's met with all the disciples and with the church, He's told them and taught。
them and met with them, He's then ascended to heaven.。
Before He ascends He says, "I will return."。
They're expecting the return of Jesus and they're expecting the return of Jesus to happen。
very quickly, and they need it because they're suffering in the first century, in dealing。
with their faith amongst a very hostile environment.。
So the church of Peter are crying out and they're like, "Lord, would you return?"。
And they're feeling more and more anxious that He hasn't come yet, and in 2 Peter 3。
says this, "Dear friends, this is my second letter to you.。
I have written both of them as reminders to stimulate you to wholesome thinking.。
Thumbs up if you need some wholesome thinking."。
Because here's what happens, in seasons of waiting, our thinking...。
Wow, I was going to say something really cheesy then, and I stopped myself from saying something。
really cheesy, it's not in my notes, so thank God, thank you Lord.。
But our thinking gets really bad.。
I could have said, "My thinking is stinking."。
That was it.。
My thinking gets really bad, okay?。
And here He says, "Actually, when we remember, we are stimulated to wholesome thinking."。
He goes, verse 2, "I want you to recall the words spoken in the past by the holy prophets,。
and the command given by our Lord and Savior through the apostles."。
Verse 8, "Do not forget, but do not forget this one thing, dear friends.。
With the Lord, a day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years is like a day."。
That's a great passage for seasons of waiting, by the way.。
But notice what Peter is doing here.。
He's saying, "Remember."。
He's saying, "I'm writing to you so you would remember."。
He's like, "Recall the words of the prophets."。
He's saying, "Don't forget this.。
Don't allow fear and anxiety to strip away from you faith, and hope, and an active anticipation。
of change, and the prophetic stance that waiting should place inside of you.。
Don't allow the fear to cause you to forget.。
Remember what it is that I have done."。
Some of you, I want to say it this way.。
Some of you are listening far more to what the wait is saying to you than what the Word。
is teaching you.。
Come on, church.。
Some of you are just way more in tune with what the wait is screaming at you than what。
the Word is whispering to you.。
May we not forget what it is that the Lord has poured out upon His people.。
Let us not forget what He has done in our past, and let us see that as a deposit to。
the faithfulness of His goodness in the present.。
Amen?。
That's the first thing.。
Here's the second thing found in verse 1.。
"The Lord is my light and my salvation.。
Whom should I fear?。
The Lord is the stronghold of my life.。
Of whom should I be afraid?"。
David starts the psalm with one word in Hebrew.。
Obviously, that's what would happen, but this particular word that he chooses is very, very。
important.。
He chooses the word "Lord."。
It will show up in your English translations as L-O-R-D in capital letters.。
It's the sacred name of the Jewish personal understanding of God.。
There were a number of names for God that David in the Hebrew could have chosen to start。
the psalm.。
Rahim being one of the other ones that is very popular, particularly in his time.。
But he chooses this Yahweh word that we've come to say Yahweh, which means "I am."。
It means literally, "I am that I am."。
You might remember that this was first spoken over the Jewish people by Moses, by God, at。
the burning bush with Moses.。
Moses asks God, "Who are you?"。
He wants to know who this God is that is coming to deliver His people, and God personally。
reveals Himself as this Yahweh.。
He says, "I am that I am."。
The word "I am" is in the present continuous tense.。
It's the idea that this God is a God that's present.。
This is really important because I think what David's doing right at the beginning of the。
psalm is saying, "Here's where our hope is."。
Yes, it's important that you remember what God has done in your past and hold on to that。
in your future.。
That's one way to deal with the anxiety that's in your mind.。
But here's the thing.。
You do not worship a God of your past.。
The God that we worship is the God of the here and the now.。
And so his starting point is, "I am" is with us.。
"I am" is present.。
That He's the same yesterday, today, and forever.。
That His very context is this revelation that He is the mighty I am.。
He's not, "I was good, therefore remember it."。
He is, "I am good in the here and now."。
He's not, "I was your healer."。
He is, "I am your healer."。
He's not, "I was someone who's spoken to your life before."。
He is someone, "I am who is speaking into your life now."。
So it feels like, you know, maybe on the one side that David might be contradicting himself。
here.。
He's not.。
He's saying, "We should look back.。
We should remember."。
It's a biblical principle to remember God and to hold that memory in the seasons of。
waiting.。
But he's like this, "You've got to be really careful that in a season of waiting, you don't。
end up worshiping and I was God."。
Come on church.。
"You've got to be careful that your season of waiting, you don't end up worshiping and。
I was God."。
I have so many conversations like this with people.。
"Oh man, God was awesome to me in 1985."。
Or "God was awesome to me two years ago."。
God was great to me when I was in this place or with these people or in that community.。
And absolutely, we celebrate those moments.。
Absolutely, like David says in verse two, we look back on that to remind ourselves of。
him in the way.。
But what David's really trying to stress to his church is that it's not about worshiping。
some thing of the past.。
We worship the great I am.。
He doesn't reveal himself as I was who I was.。
Nor does he reveal himself as I will be what I will be.。
He reveals himself as I am that I am.。
Your God, no matter what it might feel like in the waiting, is fighting battles right。
here, right now.。
This is why then David goes on and says, "The Lord, this Yahweh, this great I am, is my。
light, my salvation.。
The Lord is the stronghold of my life."。
This is really beautiful.。
David's doing something really important and we can't miss this.。
David's not like a professor with some board, you know, whiteboard.。
And he's like, "Here's some doctrine you need to know about God and believe, regardless。
of whether you've encountered this in him before."。
No, he says over his people, "You've got to understand that I have a personal relationship。
with this God.。
That he is my light.。
He is my salvation.。
He is the stronghold of my life.。
I'm not just trying to tell you that he is the light."。
Notice this in the scripture.。
He doesn't say he is the light, although he is.。
He doesn't say he's the salvation, although he is.。
He says, "No, this is about me.。
This is my personal encounter, my personal testimony."。
Like the testimonies we just heard in this room a moment ago, David is writing to Israel。
and he's saying, "In seasons of waiting, let me tell you what I've encountered.。
I'm not trying to teach you something here that I haven't journeyed through.。
I'm not trying to speak something into you that's a doctrine that you should believe。
without thinking."。
No, he's like, "This is my personal experience.。
I have found him in the waiting.。
Where I have felt anxious and fearful, where my mind was spiraling, he became my light,。
my salvation, my stronghold."。
It's fascinating to me that the three words he chooses here are words that speak specifically。
into this context of fear and anxiety that is the backdrop to the first three passages.。
He says, "He is my light."。
The number one thing that anxiety or fear will do is cause you to retreat to darkness.。
Fear and anxiety always makes us want to flight away, to hide, to crawl back into bed and。
throw the covers over us and hope the day goes away.。
Fear and anxiety drives us to dark places, places of depression or sadness or even at。
worst case, to places like suicide.。
Fear and anxiety drives us out of the light and into the shadows.。
And I love the fact that David goes, "You want to know who the I am is for me.。
He was my light when everything was dark.。
When I was struggling with fear and I wanted to run, when I felt darkness around me, when。
I was sad and entrenched in depression, I recognized that he magnified his spirit in。
my life and he became my light and light always extinguishes darkness."。
He then says, "He's my salvation."。
It's easy for us in our New Testament thinking as the New Testament church today, whenever。
we read the word salvation in the Old Testament, our minds immediately go, don't they, to the。
cross and to Jesus and to salvation of sin and the brokenness of all that and the liberation。
that comes through our brokenness with Christ.。
And of course, that is the story.。
But when David's using the word salvation here, he's taking a Hebrew word that means。
rescuer or deliverer.。
And one of the things that fear and anxiety always does to us is it binds us in chains.。
It chains our thinking.。
It chains our hope.。
It chains our energy.。
And we suddenly feel captive to our own thoughts, captive to our environment, captive to the。
circumstances that seem to be spiraling around us.。
Fear and anxiety will lock you up.。
And so David says, "He is my rescuer, my deliverer."。
I think another way he could have wrote it, "He broke my chains.。
He freed my mind from the pit that it was in.。
He helped me to think better, have more hope, hold on to him in the hardest of times.。
He rescued me.。
He delivered me.。
He broke the chains."。
And then he says, "He's the stronghold of my life."。
This is really cool.。
Notice what he does here.。
The word stronghold here in the Hebrew was actually a military term.。
It was a military picture.。
Oftentimes what would happen for the king when they were on a battlefield is that they。
would be in the middle and maybe the armies are rushing towards them.。
His best officers would place themselves in a circle around him, hold up their shields。
so that the arrows and the attack won't affect or hurt the king in the middle.。
That was known as a stronghold.。
Strongholds could also be physical.。
So they could be the people around helping, but it could also be physical.。
So in wars sometimes they built literal strongholds with walls to wall out the enemy so that anybody。
inside the building were surrounded by safety and security.。
So notice David takes this and he's like, "I want you to understand that when fear and。
anxiety is at work in me, that anxiety comes because my enemy has surrounded me."。
Remember this, verse three?。
He said, "My enemy has surrounded me so I feel anxiety."。
You want to know one of the ways I deal with that anxiety?。
I realize that there's something else surrounding me more.。
He says, "The Lord, my Lord, is the stronghold of my life.。
He's the one who is protecting me, walling around me, ensuring that the fiery arrows。
of the enemy can never impact me.。
Yes, it may well be true that my enemies have surrounded me, but God has surrounded me first.。
But God is the immediacy of what is around me.。
And so look, anything in this life could surround me as well, but it is the Yahweh, it is my。
God who surrounds me and fights battles and He's the one.。
And so I might be in a field with all my enemies, but I feel safe and protected because I am。
surrounded by Him."。
That beautiful song that Promise and the team have written here at the Vine, "He surrounds。
and He upholds me."。
This is the cry of David in Psalm 27.。
He's like, "You want to know how to beat the battle in your mind that is happening with。
anxiety and fear in seasons of waiting?。
Know that He will bring light where the fear is bringing darkness.。
Know that He is going to rescue you where you feel like you're in chains.。
Know that no matter how the enemy might try to surround you, He surrounds you more."。
Surrounding battles for you.。
This is very personal for David and this passage is very personal for me.。
This is something that I am not only have struggled with all my life, but it's something。
I'm currently struggling with now.。
Anxiety has been something that's been in my family.。
It's been a part of the generations of my family.。
My great-grandfather had it, my grandfather, my father.。
I struggle with it, my siblings also in different seasons, in different ways struggle with it.。
Anxiety is present for the Gardner family.。
And I go through seasons of anxiety usually when I'm in a season of waiting.。
And I'm in a season of waiting right now.。
I've been praying for something for quite some time now that hasn't come through for。
me and I don't want to share what that is, but I do want to let you know that this means。
something to me because I'm really struggling with anxiety.。
It's something that's been building for me in the last couple of months.。
Something that really had a big impact on me in the run up to Christmas just back a。
few weeks ago.。
And when anxiety is at work in my life, I want to run, I want to get away, I want to。
retreat.。
And I was praying about three weeks ago about this.。
I was so anxious at night that I wasn't sleeping well, dealing with insomnia.。
And I'm there praying.。
And as I'm praying, I felt like the Holy Spirit say this to me, "Andrew, don't you realize。
that I'm your light?。
That I am your rescuer, your deliverer.。
Don't you know that I am your stronghold?"。
And I felt this peace flood over me in a very practical way.。
And I suddenly felt this new perspective on something that I was struggling and wrestling。
with.。
I'm still waiting for the thing I'm praying about to happen and to come through for me.。
But I know that the anxiety has been processed and has reduced.。
Still a battle for me, but it is something that is being reduced.。
And I can stand before you today and say this, "He is my light.。
He is my rescuer, and I need him to be my stronghold."。
And David says, "The waiting is hard, and anxiety and fear will be there with you in。
it.。
Remember what he's done for you in the past.。
Don't allow fear to wipe the memory.。
Don't allow fear to create spiritual amnesia in you.。
Hold on to what he's done, because it's a deposit for his faithfulness now.。
But also don't worship a God of the past.。
Worship a God who's here with you, fighting those battles, conscious with you, walking。
with you, the one who can be the light and the salvation and the stronghold in this moment."。
This is why David then says with all confidence before his people, "Whom should I fear?。
Of whom should I be afraid?。
Because he is the mighty I am."。
Amen?。
Can I pray for us?。
Maybe you can stand with me and I'm going to pray.。
Father, we stand before you as a community really grateful, grateful that David has such。
honesty in his writing.。
He's able to write so confidently in these first three verses because he's done some。
battle in the past.。
A man who understood anxiety and fear and felt it acutely.。
A man who could process where that was coming from.。
And a man who gives two very practical ways for his people to deal with it.。
Lord, I want to pray for anyone here in the season of waiting that they're in right now.。
And maybe that season of waiting is creating anxiety and fear within them.。
Father, I pray, first of all, that you would lift spiritual amnesia in the name of Jesus.。
Lord, where fear has created forgetfulness.。
Lord, I want to pray that you would now bring a spirit of recollection, a spirit of remembering,。
a spirit of hope that is birthed by the, "Ah, yes.。
God did do that for me before.。
How did I forget that?。
How did I not remember that?"。
Lord, I pray that you would stir friends to come around other friends and say, "Don't。
forget that God did this.。
I remember when you told me this.。
Have you forgotten the testimony you told me yourself?"。
Lord, I pray you would stir such amazing memory amongst your people that the hold that the。
enemy has with anxiety and fear on the people of God in the season of waiting will be lifted。
in the name of Jesus.。
But as David has shown us, we do not worship the "I was God."。
And so, Lord, we stand before you in this moment saying, "You are the great I am."。
And Lord, we pray for the light to shine to the dark places for those that are struggling。
at this time.。
Lord, we pray for your rescuing, the breaking of chains in the name of Jesus.。
I feel like this for the 11.。
If that's for you, I just want to invite you as our eyes are closed just to open your hands.。
You know that there's some part of your mind, there's some part of your emotions, there's。
some part of your even physicality that you know is chained at the moment.。
And maybe it's been chained by fear or anxiety or the worry of what's ahead or the worry。
for your children or the worry for your work or whatever it is, but you recognize that。
there is this binding, you've been bound by something.。
Lord, for those whose hands are open in this moment, I pray now in the name of Jesus that。
the name of Jesus breaks chains.。
And I want to pray for that rescue and that deliverance that only Jesus Christ can do。
for those that feel bound in this season of waiting.。
And Father, you are our stronghold.。
You are the God that surrounds us, who is between us and the surrounding of our enemies.。
And I feel as I'm praying, some of you in this room, you're in a season of waiting where。
it feels like the enemy is really close.。
The anxiety and the overwhelming sense is very pertinent to you.。
The Lord would say, I am closer to you than the enemies around you.。
I will surround and I will uphold you.。
I will strengthen you with my mighty right hand.。
I am fighting battles that you are not even aware of.。
And I am, I am.。
So Lord, I want to pray that you would bless those that are desperately in need of a God。
who fights battles, that they would leave here today knowing that you surround them。
and that if you are for them, as Paul would write many years later, who can be against。
us?。
So Lord, we thank you that this season of waiting, while it might bring those uncomfortable。
emotions, that we are not left alone.。
May the God of the past be the deposit of faithfulness now.。
And may the breaker of chains, the provider of light and the surrounder of power and hope。
be with you now and forever.。
In Jesus' name, everyone says, Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
