Well, in 2006, I was living in Germany, I was a youth young adults pastor, and I decided。
to join a men's basketball team.。
Now you can see I'm pretty tall, but of course there's a lot taller people there too.。
Now it was a pretty competitive league.。
In Germany, if you're familiar with European football, you have different leagues and teams。
can move up and down.。
So I was in the fourth league.。
And if you move up one more level, then it gets very serious.。
And so I was on the team.。
We had a lot of fun as a team and we won a lot.。
It was great.。
You know, it's more fun when you win games, right?。
So then we got to the point in the season where we're actually tied for first place。
and we're about to play the other team that we're tied with.。
And this game was going to determine probably who's going to win the league championship。
or the league title and then move up to the next league.。
And so we go into the game, we're excited and we miserably failed.。
We lost that game and we were so frustrated and so disappointed because we were a lot。
better than what we played.。
I guess, you know, it's one thing to lose against somebody who's better than you.。
It's another thing to lose against somebody you could potentially actually beat.。
And we lost.。
And so we're really frustrated, discouraged, disappointed.。
Probably was it.。
It was like three or four more games after the season.。
So later that week, I got a phone call.。
My coach called me.。
Now, my coach never called me.。
So that piqued my curiosity.。
And he's like, "Hey, Tim, can you come to a meeting on Tuesday nights?"。
And I was like, "Okay, what's the meeting about?"。
So he told me, "Well, the team, some of the team members, they feel that my coaching is。
fault for us losing and they want to get rid of me.。
Can you come and mediate?"。
And I was like, "Okay, didn't see that one coming."。
I wasn't part of this conversation.。
So I came and we talked about what was going on.。
So I facilitated a conversation.。
I also talked about Christian principles, like forgiveness, which this was not a Christian。
group.。
And we actually were able to, they were actually able to forgive each other and to move forward。
together as a team.。
And now I don't want to say that everything was perfectly resolved, but it was good enough。
for us to move forward.。
And I was so thankful for that because actually we had such a great time as a basketball team。
and it would be such a pity to let this conflict divide us.。
Now we actually ended up winning the league title because the other team lost two more。
games.。
So that was a nice side thing.。
And I believe if we would have not stayed together, we probably would have lost some。
as well.。
Now we all have to one degree or another experienced conflict and division.。
Now for me it was in this case, happened to be in a basketball team where there was conflict。
that almost led to division.。
But we've experienced that in other settings as well.。
Sometimes that might be in our families, sometimes in our friendships, sometimes it is in marriages,。
sometimes it also is in churches.。
So conflict and division can come in all of our spheres of life where we're broken people。
and we have different perspectives and different viewpoints and different opinions and have。
different capacities.。
Sometimes we're not feeling good and we say something we didn't mean to say and something。
escalates and goes down a really bad road.。
So a lot of times we just end up sitting in the mess of our conflicts.。
And it's not always easy to know how can I move forward out of this conflict, how can。
I move forward out of this division with these people, with whoever it is that we have this。
conflict going on.。
And so what I want to do with you today, I want to explore with you a question and it。
says how can we keep the unity in our relationships when it is so difficult to do so?。
How do you do that?。
There are so many things that can divide us.。
We have different political views.。
We know that one, right?。
We come from different generations.。
So sometimes different generations we value different things and then there's a conflict。
between younger and older and older and younger generations.。
We come from different cultural backgrounds that also has different values.。
We have different genders, we're men, we're women, we have different perspectives.。
So on all these different things, there's all these things that can potentially, possibly。
divide us, bring conflict, bring this unity.。
And so how can we keep the unity in our relationships and how can we?。
And what do you do because this is so difficult, right?。
Now today we are starting a new sermon here, it's called Forward Together.。
And we in the season where we're in a season where we have the vision of what we call the。
uncharted vision.。
So we shared it on Vision Sunday where we feel called out not to just stay here, but。
to go out and faith into the cities, into workplaces, into our families, into perhaps。
even other countries, wherever this may be.。
And then we sense that as we go out that the spirit of God will move.。
There will be these suddenly moments.。
And then the question is, are we ready to respond immediately when the spirit is moving?。
And one thing that's important for that is, are we united as a family of faith when those。
suddenness come that we can immediately respond and move forward together into the purposes。
that God has for us.。
And so this is the heart behind the season.。
We as Pastor Ivan and I and others were praying, we felt this is something that spirit was。
putting on our hearts.。
And so this is why we're focusing on it.。
There is no, I'm not secretly addressing some specific conflict or disunity, I just also。
want to be clear about that.。
But it is important.。
And so we're going to look at that.。
And I also want to just say up front, I believe this message, even though I'm going to focus。
on church unity, I actually believe that what I'm going to talk about applies to unity and。
other areas in life as well.。
So we're just going to come expectantly and see what God has for us here in this message.。
Now, let me backtrack.。
So one thing that we also see in scripture is that Jesus, he actually prays for the future。
church.。
And that's in his high priestly prayer in John 17.。
He prays that we're going to be unified, that we're going to be one.。
And I want to just read this to you.。
So I think it's already up there.。
I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message, that all of them。
may be one.。
Father, just as you are in me and I am in you, may they also be in us so that the world。
may believe that you have sent me.。
Now, isn't this incredible that Jesus actually prays this prayer for the future church?。
And this is right before he goes to the cross, that this is the thing that is on his heart,。
is our unity, our oneness, which then also impacts our witness, that people know who。
Jesus is, that he truly is who we proclaim he is, and that is tied up with our unity。
and our oneness together.。
And so if this is so important to Jesus and Jesus' heart for us, this needs to be on the。
top of our priority list.。
And so let me take you to the passage that we're going to explore this with today.。
And we're going to go to the book of Ephesians.。
And Ephesians was one of Paul's letters.。
And basically, the church in Ephesus was one of his church plants, people from different。
religious backgrounds, different cultural backgrounds.。
They came to faith.。
So these are new Christians from all sorts of diverse backgrounds.。
And they are given, because of the work of Jesus, they are given a new identity and a。
new purpose.。
And one of the questions or one of the things that Paul addresses in this letter is, A,。
he wants to clarify to them that identity, what Christ has done and what that means for。
their lives.。
So he does that in chapters one all the way to chapter three.。
And then from chapter four to chapter six, he actually talks about how to live out that。
identity.。
Like what does it mean that we are now part of the body of Christ?。
What does it mean to be a child of God?。
And what does it have to do with our everyday life?。
And he unpacks that there.。
So let me take you to our passage.。
We're right at that transition point where we shift from the focus being on what Christ。
has done for us to now what we should do in response.。
So in chapter four, starting in verse one, it says this, "As a prisoner for the Lord,。
and I urge you to live a life worthy of your calling, you have received.。
Be completely humble and gentle.。
Be patient, bearing with one another in love.。
Make every effort to keep the unity of the spirit through the bond of peace.。
There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to one hope when you were。
called one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and father of all who is over all and。
through all and in all."。
So here we see in verse one, there's this transition.。
It says, "Then," which also means therefore, so it's referring to all that has happened。
beforehand, all the things that Christ has done.。
So I actually want to give you a little summary of what Paul had been talking about.。
So here it is.。
The blessings in Christ.。
God has blessed you with every spiritual blessing in Christ.。
You are adopted as his child.。
He has redeemed you and forgiven you your sins.。
He has given you the gift of the Holy Spirit.。
He has saved you by grace, made you life in Christ and gave you a purpose.。
He has made you part of the family of God, the body of Christ.。
He has gave us as a church a mission and he gave you a relationship with God where you。
can come freely and confidently to your heavenly father.。
You have access.。
So these are the truths that Paul has been unpacking to them and more.。
And so if you were to summarize it, we could say that God has called us to belong to him.。
He has called us to be his holy people and he's called us to participate in his redemptive。
mission in this world.。
So this is what Christ has done.。
And so what does it mean though, as it says in verse one, to live a life worthy of our。
calling?。
Like what does Paul actually mean by that?。
Well, one way we could respond to that question is we could say that living life worthy of。
the calling is our love response to what Christ has done in your life.。
God has blessed you in such incredible ways.。
He has been so good to you.。
And then us living a life worthy of our calling is responding to his incredible love, this。
incredible thing that Christ has done for us, this grace that he has shown us.。
Now actually it was interesting that Benedict, we've been coordinators, that he earlier had。
a football stadium, a picture that he shared with us during the worship.。
When I was a boy, I dreamed of being on the national German football team.。
So in Germany, if you know, football is the biggest sport.。
When I was young, Germany won World Cups and things.。
And so I wanted to be on that team.。
Now if I were to be called up, which there was no chance, but if I were to be called。
up to be on this football team, it would be an incredible blessing.。
It would be an incredible privilege.。
It would be such an honor to represent your country and to play in the stadium and to。
give your best.。
But it also would be a responsibility to be on that team.。
I have to carry and conduct myself a certain way because I'm representing my country.。
I have to practice hard.。
And of course in the games, I have to give it my all.。
I have to leave it all out on the field, as they say.。
And so in a similar way, when we become a Christian, we're brought into the family of。
God.。
And living a life worthy of our calling is now to represent this family.。
And it's a blessing, but it's also a responsibility of how we carry out this calling in our everyday。
lives and our everyday moments, the mundane ones and the big ones.。
Do we bring honor to God with how I talk to my family back home and none of you are watching?。
Do I honor God when I interact with a guy that annoys me at work?。
Do I honor God when there's somebody in need and I actually have the time and the resources。
to do something about this person's need?。
And so this is what it means to live a life worthy of our calling.。
It's an incredible blessing and we're responding.。
We receive that and it's amazing, but there's also responsibility in that.。
So I love that earlier, your picture of being in a stadium and celebrating God and then。
going out and representing God with wearing our jersey.。
So we get to wear our jersey, our Jesus jersey, in our everyday spheres of life.。
But Paul here, at the beginning of this letter, he gets specific about what it means to live。
a life worthy of the calling.。
There's actually a lot of things that he has to say about as you keep reading chapters。
four, all the way to chapter six, but the first thing that he talks about is unity.。
Isn't that interesting that Paul, that's the first thing that he talks about when he。
talks about living a life worthy of our calling, that he talks about unity.。
So let's look at verse three.。
He says this, "Make every effort to keep the unity of the spirit through the bond of peace."。
So he's encouraging us to do everything that we can do to be intentional, not just make。
some effort, make a little effort, make every effort to maintain that unity.。
Now I've been already talking about unity and oneness and all these things, so I think。
it's actually important that I define a little bit what I mean, because probably right now。
we have different thoughts on this and what exactly that means.。
So here's a little bit more detail on that.。
The church is one because believers from diverse backgrounds have been united to Christ and。
to one another through faith in Jesus and the work of the Holy Spirit.。
So God not only has reconciled us to himself, but he also brings reconciliation to each other.。
But I want to unpack these things a little bit further.。
So first, the unity of the church is not something that we create or that we bring about, but。
it's something that we have because of the work that Christ has done.。
Because he has reconciled us to himself and he has reconciled us to another.。
So that's why it says, "Keep," because it's already there.。
And we're meant to keep what God has already accomplished and done on our behalf.。
We're meant to live in it.。
And when we do, it's good, because there's blessing in unity.。
It creates an environment where we as a family can flourish and thrive and where what we。
do as a community together is effective.。
So that's the first thing.。
So it's not something we create, but it's something that God already has created and。
given us.。
Now the second way is that unity does not mean homogeneity.。
It does not mean uniformity.。
So you've probably heard this before, that unity is not equal to uniformity.。
So we're not all meant to be the same.。
We're not all meant to come from the same socioeconomic background.。
We're not all meant to be of the same ethnicity, the same gender, the same age range.。
That's not what unity is about.。
We're not all meant to have the same personalities.。
So that's not what unity is.。
The unity that the Holy Spirit brings does not erase our differences such as these cultural。
backgrounds, generational differences, and so forth, but rather uses those differences,。
our diversity, to build up the body of Christ.。
So every single person, whether you're a baby or a 90-year-old or somewhere in between,。
doesn't matter what cultural background you come from, doesn't matter what role you carry,。
doesn't matter what job you have, or all of that.。
You have a role to play in the body of Christ.。
God has a purpose for bringing you here because you are needed.。
You have something to contribute, and you also in a unique way can image who God is。
to us so we can have a deeper and more full understanding of God.。
So you are needed.。
God has brought you here with a purpose for everyone.。
He has a purpose, and it's in that diversity of giftings and of backgrounds that the body。
of Christ is richer and that we bring glory to God.。
And third, unity does not mean absence of conflict.。
Maybe it wasn't what we were expecting, right?。
That unity does not mean absence of conflict.。
Think of a marriage.。
You can have unity in a marriage, or you can have unity in a friendship, but you can have。
conflict, right?。
But it's really about how we handle our conflict.。
So I have a statement to that.。
Unity is not the absence of conflict, but it has to do with how we work through those。
disagreements, how we handle our differences.。
There are commitment to unity, and being one in the Spirit is displayed.。
And so really, it's not about us always agreeing on everything.。
It's not about us never having a conflict, but it's how we handle that and how we can。
move forward together that matters and that brings honor to God.。
That we can work through our differences and even maybe agree to disagree on some things,。
but yet still be united and move forward together and bring honor to God.。
And then finally, our unity, when we live it out, it reflects the loving unity between。
the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.。
And when we live out that unity as a local church, it really is a foretaste.。
It really is a display of the power of the gospel.。
Because the gospel is that Jesus died for us, that he rose, and that he has made us。
one family, that he forgives us, that he not only reconciled us to God, but he reconciled。
us to each other.。
So when we live out that unity, we're actually testifying to the power of God to bring people。
together who usually don't hang out together in other contexts always, or who are a lot。
of times conflicted.。
And so when we do that, it is so powerful.。
And it says to a conflicted and a divided world, "Wow, there is something here at work.。
There's something going on."。
And of course, we know what it is.。
It is the power of the Spirit who has made us family.。
And so that's why it's another reason it's so important for us to make every effort to。
keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace.。
That's why we need to do that.。
It also brings God glory.。
It's part of our witness.。
So this is what we mean by unity, so I spent time unpacking that.。
But this brings me back to our question earlier.。
How can we keep the unity in our relationships when it's so difficult to do so?。
It's nice that we can agree on what unity is, but how do we actually do it?。
Because that's where the rubber meets the road.。
That's where the real life issues are.。
And there's two things in this passage that I want to highlight, where one is a little。
bit more indirectly where Paul speaks to it, the other one he directly speaks to this.。
So first, let's look at Ephesians 4 through 6.。
Where Paul, he uses seven words that are preceded by one.。
Let me read this to you again.。
There is one body and one Spirit, just as you were called to one hope when you were。
called one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and。
through all and in all.。
Now what's the significance of this?。
There's actually a lot, and so we could spend a lot of time here, but I just really want。
to boil it down to the most essential thing that this is saying.。
And it's this, that there's only one gospel and to believe this gospel means that we enter。
into unity that it creates.。
So if you believe this gospel, then for you, you are part of one body.。
There's one Spirit and it's the same Holy Spirit working all of our lives.。
There's one hope.。
There's not different Christian hope.。
There's one hope that we share.。
There's one Lord, which is Jesus.。
There's one faith and there's one baptism.。
We're all baptized into Christ and there is one God and Father.。
We don't have different spiritual fathers.。
Our heavenly Father is all of our fathers, the Father.。
And so the gospel, when we believe it, and we enter into this oneness that it creates,。
it's the result of the saving work, the redeeming work of Jesus.。
And so unity flows from the gospel where unity is broken.。
It reveals that we've drifted from the gospel, that we somehow have lost sight of the gospel.。
And so the first thing that we can practically do if we want to keep the unity of the Spirit。
is we need to focus on the gospel.。
We need to get back to focusing on the gospel because we somehow have lost track of Jesus。
and His saving work.。
So that means we meditate on that He died on the cross for our sins.。
He forgives us that we don't have this.。
We're not part of the body of Christ because we deserve it, but it's by His grace that。
we are part of this family.。
We don't deserve it.。
It's undeserved grace, but we receive it.。
It's a gift.。
It's a blessing.。
And so remind ourselves of some of these truths and remind ourselves of God's love, not just。
for ourselves, but for other people as well, because He didn't just die for you, even though。
He did also die for you, but He also died for the other person, maybe the one that we。
have the conflict with or that we're having this unity with.。
And so how do we, again, but still, what do we practically do?。
Great, focus on the gospel.。
Well, when I was leading a different church in a different context, I was in a leadership。
meeting and there was a person in this meeting who suddenly just criticized me and berated。
me.。
And we're talking, it felt to me like 15 minutes, but it was like a five minute rant of how。
I was a bad pastor.。
My preaching was bad.。
My pastoral care was bad.。
My, you know, everything I did was bad and sucked in this person's opinion.。
And so I'm sitting there, I'm like, you know, like, and I have to say, I didn't manage to。
be completely undefensive.。
So I don't feel like that anyone could, you know, in that moment.。
So there was a little bit defensive, even though I did manage to keep a lot to myself。
and I'm just sitting there and it was so bad that other people started defending me, you。
know, because it was just so, it just was so hurtful.。
And so then the meeting ended.。
There was no way of moving forward in this meeting.。
It just ended abruptly.。
And I was like, first I was confused because it was actually a friend of mine.。
So here's a friend ripping me into shreds in this meeting.。
And so I was like, wow, you know, it's so hurtful.。
Actually went home and cried.。
And then after crying and being hurt and sitting in those feelings, I got angry.。
I don't know if you guys ever have these imaginary conversations, dialogues, anyone?。
Yes.。
All right.。
Thank you all the time.。
Well, I had those imaginary conversations and I'm so glad that you do not know what。
I said in those conversations because I was, you know, thinking about like, well, if it's。
so bad here, why are you here?。
You know, why don't you go to a different church?。
All of this stuff is playing in my mind.。
But I didn't like it.。
You know, I knew that my heart was not right.。
And it's not good.。
It's not good to live in that mind space when you have these imaginary fictional conversations,。
you know, about someone and you say what you're thinking.。
And it's probably better never to say that in that moment.。
And so one way that I got back on track was that I went back to the gospel.。
I focused on the gospel.。
And I did that through prayer.。
You know, I asked Jesus to give me wisdom for what was going on.。
And then as I'm praying, I was reminded of Jesus's, that I needed Jesus's grace, you。
know, just as much as the other person needed Jesus's grace.。
And then suddenly I was led to pray for the person that had been very hurtful to me.。
You know, and so when I prayed for the person, I prayed that God would bless this person.。
And then I prayed over that God loves this person.。
You know, and that's amazing.。
And when we start praying, when we start applying the gospel to our lives, that we give this。
Holy Spirit room to work in us and to shift up, shift our perspective and to do something。
that we cannot do on our own strength.。
And so I was able to, and this really was a process.。
This was not a one-time prayer where we're talking like, I don't even remember how long。
it was long.。
So, and then, but I got to the place where like, I reached out, I texted the person like,。
"Hey, can we meet up and talk about what happened?"。
And so I went there and I did say like, "Hey, you know, you, you know how you communicated。
things and made it impossible to receive what you says, because it was just so harsh.。
It was so harsh."。
Now after I had some time and had some time to think about it, there was some truth in。
some of the things that she was saying, but I was like, basically I was unable to receive。
that.。
And then when I talked further, they also found out that actually something quite difficult。
had happened in this person's life.。
Now that didn't excuse what this person did, right?。
But it did give me a context for, to be more compassionate and have more understanding.。
And so we were able to forgive each other and we were able to move forward together.。
But this is really not easy, but you know, to make every effort to keep the unity of。
the spirit through the bond of peace, you know, and this doesn't mean, and I also just。
want to say here, I want to clarify one thing.。
This does not mean that, you know, when somebody is abusive, that we need to then go step back。
into this abusiveness or things, you know, but, but in most cases that's not the case.。
And so there we are able to make every effort, you know, to forgive and to lean in and sort。
of cutting off.。
I wanted to cut off, you know, but it was not the right thing to do.。
And so that's the first thing.。
When we, when there's conflict, when there's division and it comes up, we need to focus。
on the gospel and we need strength from outside of ourselves because we don't have the strength。
and God loves giving us the strength.。
So that's the first thing.。
The second thing is we find in verse two, I've talked a lot, so I need to find the right。
page.。
Here we go.。
All right.。
And so in verse two, it says this, be completely humble and gentle.。
Be patient bearing with one another in love.。
And here, what's, what's interesting is says also completely, you know, just don't be a。
little bit humble sometimes be completely humble, be completely humble and gentle and。
patient.。
So Paul, he calls Ephesians to embrace these characteristics.。
And just think he's actually talking about living a life worthy of your calling.。
Now when we think of living a life worthy of your calling, we probably don't think about。
embracing humility, gentleness, and patience.。
Those are probably not the first things that come to mind.。
We're probably thinking of doing something bold and courageous for God.。
He's talking about a heart posture that we need.。
And these are, you know, two of them are listed in the Galatians five, verse 22 and 23 as。
part of being part of the fruit of the spirit, but they're actually all three of them is。
the work of the spirit in our lives that brings forth these things that builds us into our。
hearts.。
But I want to unpack them a little bit.。
So the first quality is humility.。
Now humility was actually looked down upon during Paul's time.。
It was seen as shameful, was seen as weak.。
And so it's, so it's amazing, you know, that Paul elevates this.。
And the reason why he does this is because he sees that in Jesus, because Jesus humbled。
himself was king of all kings, who humbled himself, was born, you know, in human flesh,。
laid down his life on a cross, died.。
And so he embraces this value that culture around him didn't embrace.。
But if you understand God's grace, you know, his forgiveness in our lives, that we're broken。
people, that we're sinful people who need his forgiveness, who need his grace, that。
actually should bring humility to our lives.。
You know, because we stand in this relationship with God in the first place, just by his grace,。
not because we're great people, but because God is great and because he loves us greatly.。
So again, you know, it's going back to the gospel in some ways.。
And when we focus on that, we understand that actually humility should characterize our。
lives.。
So that's the first one.。
The opposite of humility is pride.。
We walk in pride.。
And I think we can see when we walk in pride that that leads to conflict and division,。
right?。
Whereas humility allows us to work through our differences.。
Well, the second and the third characteristics are gentleness and patience.。
And again, when we look at God, he is so gentle and so patient with us.。
Just think of your life.。
Think of the dumb stuff we do.。
Think of maybe how long we've been living lives even apart from Christ.。
And yet he is patient with us to bring us into his family, to show us love, to forgive。
us yet that millions time again, when we mess up, when we do something stupid.。
And again, that's so characteristic of Christ.。
He wants us to be gentle and he wants us to be patient with other people.。
And the opposite of gentleness is harshness.。
And the opposite of patience is impatience, of course.。
So the second way that we keep the unity of the spirit is by embracing humility, gentleness,。
and patience.。
Now, going back to that story that I was telling, I was lacking all three of them.。
I didn't have the humility, I didn't have the gentleness, and I didn't have the patience。
to begin with.。
And I think if we're honest, a lot of times we would lack those things, especially in。
the heat of the moment, right?。
Like they're not right there.。
And so how do we embrace those characteristics?。
How can they become more part of our lives?。
Well, again, it was through prayer in this case, where we give the Holy Spirit room to。
do this work in our hearts so we can have those things, that we can carry those things。
into a conflict to keep things from escalating even further, and to bring this unity that。
honors God.。
And so God really helped me through this time to move from pride to humility, where I really。
just wanted to cut off this person and tell them what I think with my imaginary conversations,。
where I wanted to speak harsh words to the person, to actually speak gently to the person.。
And then where I was impatient, I was like, "That's it, we're done, leave."。
And He moved me towards patience, where I was willing to work through our differences.。
So when we embrace these values, it really allows us to assume the best about other people,。
to deescalate, to move closer instead of moving further away.。
And I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
Jesus, He prayed for our unity.。
His prayer, His heart's desire for us is that we are one.。
You know, that we are one, that we are a family that is united and has unity with each other.。
He deeply desires that for us, that is His prayer.。
And He knows that is so critical for us, because when we are one, when there's oneness, we。
can thrive, we can grow in our faith, we can be a community that has fun.。
Come on, if there's division, it's no fun.。
We can be effective.。
What we do has kingdom impact.。
It's amazing.。
Again, you can think of marriage.。
If there's division in marriage, man, it is just draining.。
Or when there's division in friendship, it's just draining.。
But when there is unity, it creates an environment of flourishing, of thriving, of goodness.。
And so God really wants us in all spheres of our lives to have unity, but especially。
also for us as a church family.。
And so living a life worthy of our calling as we want to move out in the season into。
uncharted territory, as we want to love the city, we need to make every effort to have。
the unity of the Spirit.。
And when we do, God's love flows through us as a community.。
It touches your lives and it touches the lives of other people.。
And God wants to touch lives through us.。
And it would break my heart if we would stand in the way of that.。
So we need to make every effort, but we're not on our own.。
This is not making every effort is not out of our own strength.。
It's the Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit, which gives us the grace, the strength, the motivation,。
the wisdom, and all of that we lack to move forward.。
And so right now I want to invite you to reflect on this question you see up on the screen.。
In what relationship do you need to move from pride to humility?。
From harshness to gentleness?。
From impatience to patience, and from a lack of love to love?。
And I want to invite you right now to just on your own to pray, to bring whatever is。
going on, whether in your marriage, whether in your friendships, whether in this church。
community, and just to open your heart to the work of the Spirit, to bring transformation,。
to bring change, to bring healing, to let His love flow.。
So I'm just going to give a couple of minutes to do that, and then I'm going to come back。
and pray over us.。
So let's pray right now.。
Let's do this.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
