♪ And if it's deeper, what is deeper ♪。
♪ You sink or swim, I'm the one ♪。
- Cool, we're back.。
I just have a couple of announcements for all of us.。
Oh, my throat is not doing too well today.。
Just a couple of announcements for us this week.。
There are a few things we want to bring to your attention.。
There are things that we,。
there's different events we want to see you at.。
First one, it's our prayer meeting.。
So anybody has been to a church prayer meeting before?。
It happens every month.。
It's happening again this Tuesday evening.。
And this month we have a special theme.。
It's about the good news in Christ alone.。
As you know, we're going through the book of Galatians。
in a sermon series,。
and we would have a bit of time,。
spending some time in the Word,。
and allow the Word to lead us into a time of prayer as well.。
Of course, there will be a facilitator,。
and I believe that will be Deborah this month.。
And so I do want to invite you all。
to come and join us in prayer.。
And next week, there's going to be bring your own lunch.。
It's a monthly event.。
We do this every month to what's like end of month,。
or maybe the fourth week of the month.。
It's a great opportunity for us to not just meet people。
whom we always sit next to,。
but you will see different people in the church.。
A couple weeks ago, maybe two weeks ago,。
we had a volunteer appreciation event,。
and I saw everyone.。
I'm like, "Yes, I know this person, I know that person."。
But when I was there, I saw two people.。
They just talked to each other。
and started to introduce themselves and say,。
"Hi, my name is A."。
"Oh, yes, my name."。
I'm like, "You two don't know each other?。
"Oh, that's new for me."。
And I just realized, yes, as a church, it's growing.。
We have more people here,。
and so we do want to stay in touch with all of you.。
But at the same time, we do also want to build this moment。
for us to connect with each other,。
with people whom you don't normally sit with at the service,。
you don't normally talk to.。
Yes, of course, you don't talk to people at the service,。
right?。
You don't, right?。
Yeah, 'cause we don't talk to people at the service.。
Anyway, but anyway, yes, that's our heart.。
We do want to connect all of us,。
because church is not a 90-minute service on a Sunday.。
It's not just you sitting here listening to someone。
or just following the lyrics on the screen.。
Church is a community.。
It's the people of God.。
And if we don't get to know one another,。
how can we become a community, right?。
So our heart is to build up this community。
for us to get to know one another。
so we can support one another,。
we can pray with one another,。
and we could just simply talk to,。
have lunch with one another.。
That's what we want to do.。
So next Sunday after the English service,。
and you can just go and grab some lunch and come back.。
If you could stay and help us set this place up,。
that's amazing as well.。
Bring your own lunch next Sunday.。
We do also have a very exciting event coming up.。
If there are any young people in your family,。
any young people, like you know any young people,。
or if you feel you're still very young,。
okay, we do have an age limit though, yes.。
We're launching, anyway,。
we're launching a youth ministry event.。
This is gonna be the first one.。
It's on, is that a date?。
No, there's no date here, okay.。
But because we want you to pay attention。
to the announcement, so I'm gonna tell you the date.。
It's on the 30th of June.。
That will be the last Sunday of this month,。
and you, okay, maybe not every one of you,。
but if you're under 18, maybe 12 to 18, around this age,。
we do want to invite you to come along.。
And if you have any teenagers around you,。
we would love you to invite them。
to come to this meeting as well.。
We're starting a youth group.。
We do want to have fun with our young people,。
and we do want to experience the love of God with them.。
So yes, if you are a teenager, you can sign up directly.。
If you're not a teenager, but you know some teenager,。
you can also sign up for them.。
And we do want you to sign up,。
because you know, there are a lot of people。
who want to volunteer, but we do want to keep the ratio。
between volunteers and young people。
to an appropriate ratio, you know?。
You don't want to overwhelm young people。
with like 15 adults standing here, and you know.。
So the only way the adults could join,。
it's when we have enough teenagers there.。
So a lot of adults, they actually want to join in。
to volunteer.。
If you could register in advance,。
then we know we have enough numbers of young people,。
then we can say, yes, loving adults,。
you're welcome to join us,。
and you can have pizzas with us as well.。
I guess that's why they come, right?。
So yes, please, if you know you could attend,。
please do sign up in advance.。
We'd love to see the young people there.。
And so sign up for the young people around you as well.。
Okay, that's all for this week.。
We're gonna enter into another round of worship。
through our offering today.。
Our welcome team, they will be passing on the buckets。
at the moment.。
If you are giving by cash or checks,。
and these are just physical ways,。
you can put it in the buckets.。
If you are scanning,。
QR codes using digital ways, they are all on the screen.。
I was told the Alipay QR code may not be working.。
If you can use other means, that would be great.。
If not, you may have to try,。
and if it doesn't work,。
you have to give us some time to try and fix it.。
We just spotted it like minutes ago.。
But yeah, shall we pray for our offering?。
Let's do that.。
Father, we just wanna thank you for your love,。
your generosity in our lives,。
and we wanna thank you for being there,。
showing up in our lives,。
and we wanna thank you for the sacrificial love。
that is witnessed on the cross of Jesus.。
And so today, Father, we come before you with thanksgiving,。
with a heart of gratitude.。
We also pray that the things that we sow into the bucket,。
or we sow into the church community,。
we pray that these resources will be multiplied,。
and it will be able to bless those around us。
in this community, in this city,。
and we pray all that in Jesus' name.。
Everybody say, amen.。
Amen.。
It's my honor and pleasure to introduce our speaker today.。
She comes from Wan Chai.。
You may have met her before.。
She comes occasionally.。
Let's welcome Pastor Jennifer onto the stage.。
- Hi.。
(audience applauding)。
- It's good to see you all again.。
- Yes. - After three months,。
I think. - Three months.。
It's been so long. - Yeah.。
- Were you at the Chinese or English last time?。
- Cantonese. - Cantonese.。
So it's been even longer for our English congregation.。
So if you don't know yet,。
Pastor Jennifer, she's one of the pastors in Wan Chai.。
If you don't know yet,。
we do have a church also called The Vine in Wan Chai.。
They planted us.。
So we, yes, we're one church,。
but in two different locations,。
and that's why we can invite our Wan Chai pastors。
to come and preach occasionally.。
So why don't we stretch our hands to Pastor Jennifer?。
Let's pray for her.。
Father, we thank you for Pastor Jennifer,。
for who she is,。
for her heart to bring your word to your people.。
And so today, Father, we just pray。
that you would speak through her loud and clear.。
You would bring forth this message。
through not just her lips,。
but also through who she is, her whole being.。
And we pray that you would anoint our ears。
to listen to this message,。
to follow your word.。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
- Amen. - Amen.。
- Thank you, Chapman.。
Good to see you all, and happy Father's Day.。
And I hope you guys will enjoy celebrating Father's Day.。
So why don't I just start off。
with telling a little bit about my father.。
So if I have to describe my dad,。
he has always been a very handy person.。
He likes assembling things at home.。
He likes fixing things.。
Sometimes when I leave home,。
go to work and go back home,。
something is fixed in my room,。
and that's amazing, right?。
So growing up, he has been helping me a lot in that area.。
But on the other hand,。
when he sees me doing things like that,。
maybe screwing things at home,。
maybe opening a can or opening a coconut,。
he will say, "Why are you so foolish。
"that you are doing it in a wrong way,。
"wasting all your energy to do that?。
"Let me do it."。
And then I'm like, "Okay, sure."。
And I'm a happy fool since at the end he would help me。
and I don't need to do that stuff.。
But it's not always a happy experience。
to be called foolish, right?。
I wonder how would you feel。
when someone call you foolish in any occasion?。
And why am I starting off like this?。
Because as we continue to read Galatians together,。
in chapter three is our today's passage,。
Paul starts off with calling the Galatians foolish.。
And like when Paul,。
like last time we went,。
Tim went through the chapter two with us。
and like saying that we die to a new way to live.。
And Paul continues to explain。
what's the new way to live by the Holy Spirit.。
So Paul was calling them foolish。
because they neglect the Holy Spirit。
and make a confrontation to them.。
So this is the passage that we're going through.。
So let's take a deeper look。
into first one to five in chapter three.。
So, "You foolish Galatians who has bewitched you.。
"It was before your eyes。
"that Jesus Christ was publicly exhibited and as crucified.。
"The only thing I want to learn from you is this.。
"Did you receive the Spirit by doing the works of law。
"or by believing what you heard?。
"Are you so foolish?。
"Having started with the Spirit,。
"are you now ending with the flesh?。
"Did you experience so much for nothing?。
"If it really was for nothing,。
"well then, does God supply you with the Spirit。
"and work miracles among you。
"by your doing the works of law。
"or by your believing what you heard?"。
So we see that Paul is asking the Galatians。
many questions in one go。
and then like, oh, we're in trouble。
if someone speaks to us like that.。
But as we know that when Paul is writing a letter,。
he is always addressing some issues in a church.。
So in this passage, we see from the questions that he asks,。
Paul is addressing the issue of legalism.。
He is arguing against a belief that the Spirit。
is received by doing the works of law.。
And so that we know that there were teachings。
in Galatians perhaps that Christians need。
to observe the Jewish law。
and maybe they need to get circumcised as well.。
So to address this belief,。
Paul is asking the Christians in Galatia。
to recall the experience.。
Like actually, how did you receive the Spirit。
in the beginning?。
Maybe that's the questions for us too.。
How did we receive at the beginning?。
And so we see that Paul assumes that we should know。
that we receive the Holy Spirit by our believing in Jesus,。
not by the works of law, right?。
And which is very critical to both Galatians and to us all.。
We must understand that the Spirit,。
the Holy Spirit is given to all the believers。
from the day we believe in Jesus。
instead of what we have done.。
In other words, we can never earn the Holy Spirit.。
It is by the grace of God that we receive Him.。
And it is the intention of God。
to send the Holy Spirit to us as well。
as what Jesus said in John,。
the Holy Spirit, he called him as a helper。
which is sent to us.。
As we start living as Christians,。
like when we recall our very first experience。
as a Christian, we don't know what to do, right?。
We don't know as Christians how we should act,。
how we should pray, how we should have our relationship。
with Jesus and with other people.。
So that's why God sent us a helper to do that,。
to give us guidance.。
Maybe like when we start this new way of living,。
the Holy Spirit does not only give us guidance。
and also the strength, the energy,。
whatever we need when we are in this spiritual journey.。
So isn't it amazing, right?。
Having the Holy Spirit with us.。
And so this is why in verse four,。
Paul asked whether they are foolish。
because we already have the Spirit, right?。
Are you still doing the works of flaw?。
And this is also the meaning of like finishing by the flesh,。
which means we are using our energy,。
our strength to try to please God。
and try to follow the law, the Jewish law to do our work.。
And so, Paul is speaking against those。
who try to operate their faith through the works of law.。
This was what happened before God sent the Holy Spirit。
and the Jewish people,。
they needed to follow the laws as a community.。
Indeed, the law give us guidance on how we live,。
but we need to operate with our own strength.。
Like the law is there, but we need to use our strength,。
use our understanding to understand them。
and use our strength to follow them as well.。
And we see here, like comparing to the new way。
that we have received the Holy Spirit,。
the Holy Spirit will give us the guidance。
and give us the strength to follow the will of God.。
The old way is we see the laws,。
but we use our own strength to follow it.。
This is the comparison that Paul is trying to do.。
So we might wonder what is wrong,。
like by observing the law,。
the law is given by God himself, right?。
So I would say, indeed, the law is written and given by God,。
but the law is not God himself.。
But the Holy Spirit is.。
And there's always limitation in legal writing or in law。
because they are limited by the context and culture.。
Just imagine back in those days,。
they won't know what is aviation law.。
They won't know what is IT or internet security.。
That is a limitation in the law。
because we can't understand the law。
without culture and without situation.。
So maybe it's a little bit vague to understand that.。
So let me share an example。
when I worked in the legal industry.。
So before I started working as a staff at the fine,。
I was a paralegal in our company.。
So that means I worked for a legal department.。
Most of my colleagues, they don't have a legal background.。
So only myself and the lawyer, we have the legal background。
and we kind of oversee the legal issues。
of the whole company.。
So apart from reviewing all the contracts we need to do,。
one of the major duty of us。
were to review the internal policies。
and to train my colleagues on this knowledge。
and why they need to follow that policies.。
So my company has a Asian background.。
I won't say which region so that you can't guess.。
But yeah, and then I was reviewing and writing the policy。
for privacy and personal data.。
And then I need to do a training with them as well.。
So as Asians, sometimes we might not be super sensitive。
about respecting people's personal life。
or maybe we ask questions about family。
without noticing that they might not feel comfortable。
with sharing with that.。
That was the situation of my company among my colleagues.。
So that's why I needed to write that policy。
and try to educate them.。
So when I was doing the training with them,。
I share like, oh, we need to respect other people's privacy.。
So if people are not very comfortable with sharing,。
like try not to ask them too personal questions。
or don't expect that they must answer you,。
your question regarding their privacy.。
And also you need to know that you also have a right。
not to tell other people about your privacy as well.。
I think I was like doing my best to explain that to them。
and try to make it very clear with all the examples.。
And then after the training, I asked them like,。
so what's about the new policy?。
And then they said, so I can never ask people's privacy.。
Right?。
And I'm like, oh gosh, why?。
But I really learned a lot how people,。
how human learn about this stuff,。
because not everyone is a professional on legal knowledge。
that I need to explain it in a way that other people can,。
like they people can understand.。
And then I realized like, it's a very much a human tendency。
that we reduce something as a concept。
to something that what we should do。
or what we should not do.。
It is way easier for people to understand like that.。
And this can happen to our faith as Christians as well.。
Sometimes we might just reduce God's wills。
to some laws or rules and be satisfied。
with following instructions in our faith journey.。
And which is why Paul is trying to write this letter。
to the Galatians.。
So going back to Paul's argument,。
the law itself is not bad.。
However, if our faith is operated through observing the law,。
we are going backward.。
We are going back to the old way.。
And this is the issues that concerns him.。
So how do we not continue our faith with our flesh。
is somewhat like the important questions。
that we need to explore today.。
I would say first thing, we need to acknowledge。
that our faith is never about just obeying the laws。
or living a restricted life.。
And, but it is a relationship with God.。
We live a life which is centered by God.。
And we do not maintain any type of relationship。
just by following instructions or laws, right?。
Instead, we need to understand the person.。
We need to understand God's.。
Thinking God's will and God's heart for us,。
which was the original purpose of the law.。
It allows us to understand God a little bit。
and what pleases him.。
Like what is it look like to be living as a God's people,。
as a community together.。
But let's bear in mind that God did not give his spirit。
before Jesus resurrected.。
So it only happened after the resurrection of Jesus.。
Imagine that like there was no law at all given by Moses.。
God just tell them like, you need to love me。
with all your heart or your mind and love your neighbor.。
And this very ambiguous, right?。
Just by hearing that maybe there are。
1 million different interpretations on this commandment,。
how to love God.。
So there was a purpose of the laws。
to give us a little bit more details。
in a more concrete way that how we exactly,。
what we can do to love God and love our neighbor。
as a community of God's people.。
So, but now we have, and the Galatians。
have received the spirit.。
And the spirit is God himself.。
So receiving the spirit means that he himself。
can give us the guidance, he himself can teach us。
on how exactly we can understand his will。
according to each person's journey, right?。
Each person will understand him in a different way,。
interact him with a different way.。
So why would the Christians ignore the Holy Spirit。
and try to please him with our own effort。
to observe the laws and with our own strength?。
So Paul gives us a little bit more explanation。
on this area.。
So let's continue to read the passage。
from verse six to verse 14.。
Just as Abraham believed God,。
and it was reckoned to him as righteousness.。
So you see, those who believe。
are the descendants of Abraham.。
And the scripture, for seeing that God would justify。
the Gentiles by faith, declared the gospel beforehand。
to Abraham, saying, "All the Gentiles。
"shall be blessed in you."。
For this reason, those who believe。
are blessed with Abraham who believed.。
For all who rely on the works of law are under a curse,。
for it is written, "Cursed is everyone。
"who does not observe and obey all the things。
"written in the book of the law."。
Now it is evident that no one is justified。
before God by the law, for the one who is righteous。
will live by faith.。
But the law does not rest on faith.。
On the contrary, whoever does the works of law。
will live by them.。
Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law。
by becoming a curse for us.。
For it is written, "Cursed is everyone。
"who hangs on a tree."。
In order that in Christ Jesus,。
the blessing of Abraham might come to Gentiles。
so that we might receive the promise。
of the spirit through faith.。
It is a little bit long and complicated,。
but I will try to make it simple for us all。
to understand this passage.。
So Paul quoted Deuteronomy and tried to。
associate relying on the works of law。
with being cursed.。
So this is the first thing he was trying to say.。
But why would Paul say so?。
He himself was a Pharisee, so he was like,。
study the laws as well.。
And I think there are two reasons.。
Firstly, if we are familiar with the law,。
with the Mosaic law, Jewish law,。
we know that it would be impossible。
to obey all the things written in the book of law, right?。
I think we all agree that it is impossible。
to just observe all the laws written in the Bible.。
And so if we rely our faith on doing the works of law,。
we will never be righteous before God.。
And we are still in the condition。
that we are not redeemed yet.。
And secondly, and which is more importantly,。
if we rely on the works of law,。
behind that it is a mindset that we believe。
that we are sufficient before God by obeying his law.。
And we believe that we are capable。
to be righteous with our own effort.。
Eventually, pride will be developed in this mindset,。
which is why Paul says, ending with the flesh in verse three.。
But the reality is we can never be righteous before God。
with our own effort as humans.。
And again, Paul is comparing this mindset with the faith。
and used Abraham as an example in the scripture.。
So Paul says, Abraham believed God。
and it was reckoned to him as righteousness.。
So Abraham is not righteous or blameless。
from what he has done.。
When we read Genesis, we will see that Abraham。
has done something immoral as well.。
He had lied to the Pharaoh that Sarah is his sister。
so that he can preserve his life.。
And also from his family dynamic,。
he has done things that make the situation very complicated。
and both Sarah and Hagar and also the two sons suffered.。
But God does not reckon him righteous。
because he handled everything perfectly, blamelessly,。
but it is his faith.。
We see that whenever God speaks to Abraham,。
he is willing to obey and he is willing to do the commands。
that God has given him,。
like even though he might not understand。
why he needs to do that, including sacrificing Isaac.。
So we see that this is how faith operates.。
It's not about being perfect or blameless before God,。
but it is our faith just to follow God。
whenever he speaks to us and obey him。
whenever he give us the guidance。
or the direction that we need to follow.。
So, and now we are also justified by God, just like Abraham.。
And we are called to be the descendants of Abraham。
and be blessed with Abraham.。
Now we may wonder what does it mean by being blessed?。
So let's look at Isaiah chapter 43, verse three,。
and it will give a little bit ideas。
on what it means to be blessed.。
So first three of Isaiah chapter 44,。
for I will pour water on the thirsty land。
and streams of the dry ground.。
I will pour out my spirit on your offspring。
and my blessing on your descendants.。
So from Isaiah, we see that scriptures。
actually links Abraham's blessings。
and the pouring out of the spirit.。
So which means the promise has already come.。
And before the promise has come,。
Jesus, no, before Jesus has redeemed us,。
we are cursed by the law, but now the promise has come.。
We are blessed and also we have received the Holy Spirit.。
So why would a redeemed person。
would want to go back to the cursed life?。
He has made the Holy Spirit。
for whoever believes him to receive.。
And receiving the Holy Spirit means。
he is teaching us what is right, what is wrong himself.。
And he is teaching us to how to live a life。
that glorifies him as well.。
This is very important as we continue in our faith journey.。
So indeed, no, as we continue to operate our life。
by doing the works of law,。
we are not continuing our faith journey。
without faith in Jesus.。
Instead, we need to today live under the conviction。
of the Holy Spirit.。
This is the new way that we live.。
But I mean, it might seem a little bit distant to us.。
For us today in Hong Kong, we might not observe the...。
I think most of us won't, right?。
We do not, right?。
We eat pork, right?。
And we will not believe that we can be blameless before God。
just by observing the laws of Hong Kong, right?。
Because it is not written by God.。
So we might not be super, like,。
find it relevant to ourself to observe the law,。
comparing with our faith.。
But the works of law can appear differently to us today.。
Legalism and pride of believing we are sufficient。
before God can appear other than the works of law.。
For example, maybe following the Christian's customs。
or traditions, or following people's expectations。
on how we define a good Christian,。
or like just to maintain our faith。
by our spiritual discipline.。
These could be the works of law looks like today.。
For example, when we come to Sunday service。
or CG every week, we pray and do our devotion every day。
or doing our tithe every month.。
These are the things that we do as Christians, right?。
And these things also form us as a Christian community。
and are the importance for us to do.。
But it will be an issue that we believe。
doing all those things equals to our faith.。
As I said before, our faith is not just only doing things。
or following some instructions by our pastors。
or by the law, by the Bible.。
It is like by our conviction, by the Holy Spirit.。
And if we are just following, like,。
the human definitions of a good Christian,。
we can start feeling that we are sufficient before God.。
We are like good children of God。
by just doing these things.。
And we start to feel good because what we do。
matches the category of what a Christian looks like。
and forget that we need the work of the Holy Spirit。
in us and among us.。
It almost feel like maybe we have a to-do list。
as a Christians.。
We checked when we go to Sunday service.。
We checked when we pray tonight.。
But if we are just doing that to maintain our image。
as a Christian, we are turning away。
from living under the Holy Spirit's conviction。
and to fulfill just the items on our to-do list.。
And again, I'm not saying that if the Holy Spirit in us,。
we don't need to pray at all.。
We don't need to go to a Sunday service.。
Not like that.。
But more of our perspective of seeing them。
and how we position them.。
All the things we do will help us to know the heart of God。
and also to help us to grow spiritually in Him。
and be more like Jesus.。
But ultimately, it is the Holy Spirit and God。
who make us grow and bring changes in our lives.。
So as we grow to get to know Jesus better,。
we know our faith is more than just doing。
the spiritual things in our life.。
But whatever we do, we do them for Jesus.。
And our whole life is oriented to Jesus.。
This is the ideal world of our faith.。
But sometimes we might feel that we need to use。
our own strength because I'm too busy.。
I don't know what I'm even doing in my work and family.。
And I just need to use my own strength。
to continue to follow Jesus.。
And forgetting about being convicted by the Holy Spirit,。
forgetting about our daily conversation。
and relationship with Him.。
And I have those days too.。
I have busy days that I might just forget.。
And using our strength to just push through。
in my faith as well.。
And I want to share my story.。
A few years ago when I was still in seminary.。
So I might have shared my story that I got rejected。
by seminary to do a full-time program.。
And then it was the time that I felt very lost。
and I don't know what I'm doing.。
And I don't want to continue my part-time study。
as I got rejected by my seminary already.。
But since I am still going to church,。
I need to be accountable.。
I need to explain to my pastors and my peers。
that what am I doing.。
So I've decided I just continue my study。
because I want to maintain my image as a good Christian.。
So that's what I did.。
Even though I was struggling,。
I still go to school every week.。
I try to follow what the professors were saying.。
But I was really struggling.。
So I couldn't really start writing one of my papers。
in my course.。
So I have two choices at that time.。
I can either ask my professor。
to give me an extension of the deadline。
or I drop the course.。
So I was struggling.。
I would just, like, according to my profession,。
I was still in law at that time,。
I would just drop it because I've missed the deadline.。
There's no way for me to make me feel good。
to continue and ask for an extension.。
But the Holy Spirit convicted me the other way.。
So I unwillingly, I opened my email。
and then I emailed my professor.。
I still remember how I emailed him.。
So usually you will try to explain,。
I'm too busy these days,。
can you give me so and so days of extension。
so that I can submit my paper, right?。
So my email looks like this.。
Oh, hi, professor.。
I have no excuse at all.。
It's purely my poor time management,。
but I couldn't meet the deadline.。
Would you grant two days of extension of the deadline to me?。
And I was like, I was struggling.。
Who would he grant me?。
Like, it's such a bad email and without any excuse。
to ask for an extension and ask for some grace, right?。
But after a few minutes,。
the professor replied me with two words,。
extension granted.。
So I was like, wow, you're so gracious.。
So I spent the next two days to just finish the paper,。
to turn it in, and then it takes a while。
for the paper to get back to us, right,。
for the grace and marked paper.。
So after a few months,。
I got my paper back with my professor's grading.。
So I opened the paper and it has an A on it.。
So I was like, does my professor forget。
that he needs to give me a great penalty because I'm late?。
So I was about to pull up my email again。
and ask him if he forgets to do that.。
But I heard a voice saying to me,。
Jennifer, seriously, must you do that?。
And I was very embarrassed at the moment.。
I was in school in the library。
and I realized what I have been doing。
in the whole semester on this,。
especially on this matter is I just try to use。
my own strength, my own judgment to continue my faith。
without recognizing we are under the grace of God.。
And I even tried to reject his grace.。
You know how stupid I was,。
how foolish I was if I'm using Paul's term.。
And I think sometimes when we are like continue。
our faith journey, these days will come.。
Like we think that it's all our responsibility。
to follow God, to do certain things。
and to be good in front of him and forget。
that the grace of God is the most important things。
in our faith.。
So, but I'm not saying that we don't need。
to make effort at all.。
We don't need to do good works at all.。
But we should still give our best in whatever we do.。
But like I said before, these good works。
do not give us life or bring us salvation.。
It is the spirit in us that brings us life.。
So instead of attempting to earn the salvation。
through the good works and using our own strength。
to maintain our spiritual life,。
it is the other way around.。
Our good works should fall out of the conviction。
by the Holy Spirit in us.。
So I wonder what does it mean to be convicted。
by the Holy Spirit to you personally。
in your spiritual journey with Jesus?。
And is there any area that you are trying。
to use your own strength or own effort to please God?。
And you might wonder how do we live a life。
relying on the Holy Spirit instead of our own strength,。
right?。
Again, our faith is about our relationship with God,。
how we listen and speak to God daily。
and submit to his will when he speaks to us.。
But first, we need to be sensitive。
about how the Holy Spirit speak to us and convict us.。
I would say if you are familiar。
how the Holy Spirit convict you and speak to you,。
please continue to make room for that to happen。
in your spiritual life.。
But if you are not familiar, you're like,。
I am still not sure how God speaks to us。
and how the Holy Spirit convicts me,。
I would have a little bit of suggestion。
on how you can do that and practice that.。
But again, it is your personal journey with the Holy Spirit.。
It might look different to each person,。
but it always starts with time,。
spending time with the Holy Spirit,。
spend time to listen to him.。
So I would say when you are doing your daily work。
or with your family, when you have a time,。
just ask the Holy Spirit how you can see his work。
and how you can minister his love to the people around you.。
Every day when you have time,。
it could be when you are commuting to work。
or when you are making tea in your pantry。
or when you are having a break with your kids。
or even when you're working,。
when you remember, ask him how you can see。
God's work moving around you。
and how you can minister his love to the people around you.。
And the second thing is when you feel you need to pray。
or when you see a need,。
maybe it's a person in your workspace or your children,。
pray immediately, even when you're working.。
Don't leave it to my midnight prayer before bed。
because you will forget about it.。
It is not only for remembering his sake,。
but also to invite the Holy Spirit。
to all your aspects to your life.。
So whenever you felt led,。
you feel there's a need, pray immediately.。
And again, it is really about your personal wisdom。
and relationship with the Holy Spirit.。
And I hope that by daily practice,。
you will eventually get to a point。
that you are familiar with his voice.。
You are familiar with how the Holy Spirit will configure you.。
And there's not a shortcut to be sensitive.。
I cannot do that overnight,。
but it is really needs time to practice.。
So as we're closing today,。
may I invite you to stand and I would like to pray for us.。
As Paul starts, he asks us not to be foolish,。
to just use our own strength,。
our own effort to please God。
and to continue our faith journey.。
And, but the reality is we might not,。
we sometimes we're busy and we just forget。
about the conviction or to forget about,。
to spend time with the Holy Spirit.。
So I was preparing this sermon these two weeks.。
My schedule was very packed and I didn't know。
whether I can really finish it。
or whether I can understand the passage well enough.。
And as I was preparing, I was reminded that。
maybe this is the perfect message for you to prepare.。
This is not about just my own strength or own time,。
own understanding of God's word, of God's will,。
but to depend on the Holy Spirit。
to explain the passage to me, to help me to prepare。
and even to give me strength to continue.。
So I wonder, like, is there any area of your life。
you felt very overwhelmed or you're too busy。
to be inviting the Holy Spirit in?。
If there's anything comes up to your mind,。
let's bring us, let's bring these issues to God right now.。
Let's spend a little bit time to quiet our heart。
and speak to the Holy Spirit.。
Yeah, Jesus, we thank you that you have come。
and saved us from the curse by trying to be。
good in front of you, trying to be perfect in front of you.。
We thank you that you have sent the Holy Spirit to us。
to help us and guide us in our journey of following you.。
And it is not always easy to do that.。
And Jesus, I just lift up all that we have prayed just now。
there are maybe some areas that we forget。
to invite you to help us and to invite,。
to let your Holy Spirit to work among us.。
We now lift them up to you.。
May your spirit continue to conflict us in those areas.。
And I pray that your voice will be louder than other voices,。
will be louder than our business。
and louder with the voices that we hear。
from the earth or from other people.。
So Holy Spirit, we invite you to every aspect of our life.。
And I invite you to give us guidance and strength。
to do whatever we do.。
And we pray that we will live a life that glorifies you.。
And we live a life that depends on you。
because this is your intention to come。
and help us to follow you.。
Let us not to be foolish in your eyes.。
Let us depend on you.。
And we thank you for what you have already done in our life.。
We thank you for your goodness.。
We thank you for how you have been leading us。
and guiding us.。
And we invite you as one church, as one community。
that you will continue to work among us.。
And we pray in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
