All right, now I've got to preach about sex.。
Oh, Lord Jesus!。
Well, welcome to the Vine.。
Give me a moment, give me a moment.。
Oh, that was emotional.。
That wasn't supposed to be so emotional.。
Oh, Lord Jesus.。
All right.。
Well, welcome to the Vine.。
If you're new, we're emotional here.。
Man, we're in this series of intimacy, aren't we?。
Talking about intimacy this year.。
And we're talking about how God is calling us in 2024 to be as intimate with Him as possible.。
To draw into deeper relationship and community with Him.。
And we've been talking about how God has created us with an innate desire for intimacy.。
All of us, as humans, created in God's image,。
we have an innate desire for intimacy with God and with one another.。
And we've been teaching in this series that when we fail to find the fullness of our satisfaction in intimacy with God, first and foremost,。
when we fail in that connection,。
then what will happen for all human beings is that we will naturally turn to other alternative forms of intimacy。
to try to satisfy the hole that is there where we haven't been satisfied in that relationship with God.。
Does that make sense?。
So when that one's not satisfied, we very naturally turn to other alternative forms of intimacy.。
And I would say the most seductive and the most destructive alternative form of intimacy that we turn to is sexual intimacy.。
And so today I want to talk about sex.。
I know that is a full-on topic.。
Some of you have got salt and pepper in your head right now.。
We're going to talk a little bit about this idea of sex.。
Now, I want to say something that is a personal conviction for me right up front on this topic, and it is this.。
I do not think that the global church is talking about sex enough.。
In fact, I would put it this way.。
I would say the global church is actually in this time largely silent about sex.。
And when the church is silent about a topic that is central to human flourishing and what it means to be made in the image of God,。
then basically what we're doing is we're allowing others to dictate to us in the church what we should believe about this topic.。
Because you've got to understand that the world is talking about this topic.。
In fact, they're talking about it all the time.。
You just need to turn on your social media.。
You need to look at the newspapers.。
You need to watch films and TV shows.。
You'll know that everybody is talking about sex.。
In fact, I did a poll on my Instagram this week, and of course that is the ultimate source of everything.。
I did a poll on my Instagram this week, and I asked people how regularly are people talking about sex?。
And over 65% of the people that responded said that they are in kind of friendship groups where people are regularly talking about sex.。
So this is a conversation that's happening out there.。
Here's the reality. When the church outsources its responsibility to talk about sex, two things happen.。
First of all, everybody else will define for us what sex is, and second of all, the church will be upset about that and will point fingers and judge.。
Isn't that funny?。
Like when we outsource our responsibility to talk about sex, the world then talks about it, and then we judge that and point fingers at it.。
You can't have your cake and eat it, church.。
We have to take up the responsibility to begin to speak about a glorious, biblical vision of sex and sexuality,。
bring that back into the heart of the church, because when we don't, we shouldn't therefore be surprised when we see a lot of sexual brokenness,。
both in the world but also within the church.。
Hello, everybody.。
The problem is when we have talked about sex as the church, we've talked about it really badly.。
If you grew up here in church, no doubt you've probably heard some stuff be talked about sex over the years.。
Normally, here is the rhetoric. Normally, here's what church will do.。
Church will just say, "Look, sex is bad. Sex is to be avoided. Sex is something that you should not do.。
Sex is something that's kind of mucky and disgusting and is a little bit messy, and sex is not right, okay?。
And sex is just bad, so you should only reserve it for the one that you love."。
Like, that's a good argument.。
Like, sex is terrible, bad, wrong, never do it.。
Oh, by the way, but when you get married, suddenly everything will be perfect, and you'll have this amazing sex life.。
This is how we as a church have often talked about it, and I have to say there is a brokenness within the purity culture.。
Because if you have been fed a diet that sex is essentially bad and wrong,。
and when you get married, hey, presto, everything's going to be perfect, we end up actually letting a lot of people down in the church.。
Because the reality is, what actually happens is, I can't tell you the number of times that I've pastorally sat with a young married couple。
who are struggling with guilt and shame in the early years of their sex life in marriage,。
because they've been fed a constant rhetoric in the church about how bad sex is,。
and they brought that into their marriage, and it's a wonder that they're now struggling with trying to find enjoyment and pleasure。
in something that God has created good.。
Do you see that?。
So I'm convinced that there has to be a better way for the church to be talking about sex. Amen?。
And I want to do that a little bit today.。
That's my hope. That's my goal.。
It's to maybe paint a broader, bigger, and maybe a better way for the church to be talking about sex,。
and to understand the sex act, and also understand how that fits into a way that we've been created,。
and ultimately how that fits into marriage, and what all that is about.。
And I want to say up front, I've only got about 40 minutes with you, I can't cover everything.。
And I bet some of you have come in today and you're like, "Oh, I've got my question on sex.。
Is Andrew going to talk about my topic of, you know, my question on sex?"。
The reality is, I can't talk about everything today, but what I want to do is point a picture broad and glorious and beautiful,。
and invite you into it.。
And I want to say a couple of things before I start. Here's the first thing.。
The first thing that I think we have to wrestle with is the reality that this topic is for all of us.。
No matter who you are in this room right now, this is an important topic for you.。
If you're here and you're single and you're happy and you're celibate, it's also for you.。
If you're here single and searching, if you're here single and dating,。
if you're engaged and preparing yourself for marriage, if you're married and you're flourishing,。
if you're married and you're struggling, if you're divorced, if you're a widow,。
no matter who it is, no matter where you're from, this topic is for you,。
because this topic sits at the very center of what it means to be created human.。
And so this is a topic also for you.。
Here's the second thing. I recognize that there is a lot of brokenness around this topic for all of us.。
Every single one of us in this room, we bring a story into this topic,。
a journey that we've had perhaps in this area.。
And there's hurt involved in that.。
There's brokenness and there's some pain and some suffering.。
And the reality is we're all in a journey in this area,。
and I just want to recognize and acknowledge that there are feelings about this topic, strong feelings.。
Latest statistics would suggest that one in five people have been sexually abused or harassed at some point in their life.。
One in five.。
And so there are many of us in this room where this is a personal and painful topic,。
and I want to just acknowledge that.。
And I want to let you know that I'm not standing here as an expert on this topic,。
nor am I standing here as someone who has complete victory in this area of my life.。
I'm here also as a fellow sojourner, if you will,。
in the challenges and the difficulties that this topic presents in our lives.。
And so we're in this together.。
And one of the problems is that when the church has tried to address this topic,。
they've so often done it from a name and shame perspective.。
And some of you in this room, I want to acknowledge this,。
some of you in this room have only ever been felt shame from the church。
because of your sexual history or your sexual background or your sexuality,。
and you've only ever felt hurt or pain from the church.。
Perhaps even, if I can be honest, this church.。
And I'm convinced of a couple of things.。
One is that the church has done a lot of damage in this area over the years,。
perhaps even so the Vine.。
I'm also convinced of this, that shame is never the way to help people walk through this topic.。
And there have been way too many sermons that are based on trying to shame people into sexual purity.。
I hope today is not one of those.。
In fact, I'm convinced of this, that I think shame is one of the main reasons。
why there is so much brokenness, and if that's the case,。
then shame surely cannot be the solution to it.。
Are you with me, church?。
Here's the third and final thing.。
I'm not here today, my assignment here today is not to give you my opinions about sex or relationships.。
If you want opinions, you can go to Instagram and hear lots of people give you their opinions about it.。
Today is about hearing what Scripture has to say about it,。
what God's glorious vision is for this,。
and for us to sit within that glorious vision in our hearts and our lives.。
Is that okay?。
So I hope that my opinion is limited,。
and I hope that the Scriptures are the things that you hear and take away with you today.。
And so to do that, we have to start in Scripture.。
And I want to start right at the very beginning,。
because the very first thing you need to understand about sex in God's perspective。
is that it is interwoven into the creation story itself.。
In fact, sex takes one of the prominent positions in the opening pages of the Bible.。
I want to take you to Genesis 1, verse 27 and 28.。
Is this okay still so far?。
All right.。
It says this, "So God created humanity or man in His own image.。
In the image of God, He created him. Male and female, He created them.。
God blessed them and said to them, 'Be fruitful and increase in number.。
Fill the earth and subdue it.。
Rule over the fish of the sea and the birds of the air,。
over every living creature that moves on the ground.'"。
These are the fundamental things that God says to His created beings, humanity,。
His gendered beings, He speaks over them, these very critical things.。
And what God is doing in these passages, these are famous words for you,。
but I want to break this down in a way that perhaps you've not seen before or understood before.。
I want you to really get a grasp of what God is trying to create。
when He's created you and me and humanity.。
And I want to do that by showing you the four specific things that God creates。
right at the start that have something to say about who you are.。
The first thing He says is that He blessed them.。
Very simple words, He blessed them.。
Before there was original sin, that happens in Genesis 3,。
there's an original blessing that happens here in Genesis 1.。
The very first thing He does after creating humanity is that He blesses humanity.。
He pours out His heart towards humanity.。
He creates pretty, this is the way of thinking about it,。
He brings Himself into relationship with humanity。
and invites humanity to be in relationship with Him.。
That's the first primary thing that happens.。
Before He says anything, before He does anything, before anything else happens,。
He actually says, "I bless these people and they are to be in relationship with Me."。
So what basically God does right at the start is He creates this worship element。
of Him with humanity and humanity with Him.。
We are created fundamentally to worship,。
to be in relationship with God and in community with Him.。
And we receive blessing in that and we give blessing to that as well.。
You follow that?。
Then He says, "I have made them in the image of Me, in God."。
God makes us in His image.。
This speaks primarily about the idea of identity.。
Not only identity, okay?。
Not only are we created to be worshipers, first and foremost,。
in our blessed relationship with God,。
but out of that He says, "You are made in My image."。
He gives us an identity right at the start.。
And here's what you have to hear.。
That identity is central to who you are before you've done anything.。
As soon as you are conceived in your mother's womb,。
you are given identity as one who is created in the image of God.。
That means that you have, listen, you have inherent value, worth, love, and goodness.。
It's inherent in you.。
That's what it means to be made in God's image.。
No one is born into this world without any worth, any dignity, any value.。
No matter who they are, no matter what they go on to do,。
no matter whatever actions they might have,。
no matter what sexual history they have,。
in the beginning point, you are created with inherent value.。
That's the gift of being made human in the image of God.。
Are you with me?。
That identity is really important that you understand,。
and that you understand that that identity flows from your relationship with God.。
And I'll come back to that in a bit more.。
Then He says these words.。
He says, "Be fruitful and multiply," or in other translations,。
"Be fruitful and increase in number."。
Here's the thing you've never seen before. I love this.。
The first words of God over humanity are not, "Go and pray."。
Come on, church.。
The first words that God speaks over humanity are not, "Go and do a Bible study."。
It's, "Go and have sex."。
I'm going to say that again.。
Somebody's going to edit this, and it's going to be really bad.。
"Go and have sex."。
That's what He says right up front.。
He says, "Go and have sex together,"。
because this is the way that you're going to express what it is to be in this relationship with me,。
made in the image of God.。
And so there is this sexuality that is right there at the beginning of all things.。
Now, I want you to hear this.。
If you've never had sex in this room, if you're a virgin,。
or if you've made a decision to be celibate in your life for the rest of your life,。
you are still a sexual being who has sexuality.。
So this is not talking specifically only about the sex act.。
So I want to make sure that those in this room who have never had sex feel included in God's picture.。
Sometimes we think if we haven't had sex, we're not fully who we are created to be.。
I don't want you to hear that.。
You, whether you've had the physical act of sex or not, you are a sexual being with sexuality.。
You hold a sexualness to you, because that is what is being created in you in the image of God.。
Are you following this?。
Okay, that's really important that you understand that there is sexuality that is created in us as human beings.。
He then says, "Fill the earth and subdue it."。
This is God basically saying, "Not only are you created to be in a relationship with me,。
to know that you have inherent worth, value, and dignity, to be a sexual being,。
but you are also created with purpose.。
Go and fill the earth, subdue it, bring it under flourishing."。
I don't have time to unpack this theologically, but essentially what God is saying is,。
"Go into the world and co-partner with me in its shalom building, its shalom making.。
Go and flourish this creation that I have created.。
You humans are to partner with me in the flourishing of creation."。
Now, I want you to see something really important here.。
Not only do we have inherent self-worth, we also have active worth.。
Come on, church.。
We have inherent worth.。
So, in other words, if you never picked up any piece of work, if you never bothered to do anything in life,。
you still have inherent worth, love, and dignity from God. Amen?。
But he's also invited you to active worth, active dignity, active love in how we relate with one another,。
how we do our work in the world, how we go and bring the purpose of the gospel into the world.。
All of these things are relational things that we get to do and are invited into.。
Are you still tracking with this?。
Okay, so this is what it means to be human.。
You are somebody who's created to worship.。
You have an inherent dignity and worth.。
You are a sexual being, and you have purpose, active worth, in what you are doing in this world.。
This is all of us, and when you stand back from this, you begin to see a picture of what intimacy is.。
Because intimacy flows from all four of these central things about who you are.。
So, there is a spiritual intimacy, which connects to the worship of who you are.。
There is spiritual intimacy.。
There is also here emotional intimacy, because you have this inherent self-worth and dignity,。
which gives you an emotional connection to who you are, to who God is, and to who creation is, and everybody around.。
You also have a sexual intimacy, which again, as I said earlier, is not just about the idea of sex,。
the physical act of sex itself, but you are given a sexual intimacy in terms of who you are made in the image of God.。
And that actually is really important, because what it says is that our immeasurable worth in who we are,。
created in God's image, and our sexual identity have always been linked from the very beginning.。
It's really important you see this, because this actually has a lot to say later when we get into other areas.。
Our identity, who we are in the image of God, and our sexuality, those two things are inherently linked from the very beginning.。
And then purpose is the idea of relational intimacy.。
How we relate to one another, how we relate to the world around us, how we relate to creation.。
These four areas are the areas of our intimacy, and what you need to see is that all four of these are interlinked together,。
and none of them can exist alone, separate from the other.。
We are created to be unified in these things.。
So we have a spiritual intimacy, which impacts our emotional, sexual, and our relational intimacy.。
Does that make sense to you?。
But you also have a relational intimacy that also impacts your emotional, spiritual, and sexual intimacy as well.。
You can't separate any of these together.。
They're all together, all interlinked, and this is the way that it was created.。
And God stands back from that and says, "That's very good. That's really good.。
That's the way the things ought to be."。
And then, before anything else happens in Genesis 3, something else significant happens in Genesis 2.。
God says, "Here's how I've created every human being to be."。
And when this gets expressed in the idea of family, in the way that God sees this being expressed in the idea of marriage and family,。
this is where this takes on a fullness of itself.。
So if I take you to the end of Genesis 2, it says, "For this reason, a man will leave his father and his mother and be united to his wife,。
and they will become one flesh."。
The man and his wife were both naked, and they felt no shame.。
There it is, no shame.。
So this is what happens, and this is why the Bible focuses in on the idea of marriage.。
That a couple can come together and be what's called here, "one flesh."。
Let me unpack for you what this idea of one flesh is, because it has everything to link into what these four areas are.。
The word that the writer here of Genesis, for oneness, the word he's using is the Hebrew word, "echad," E-C-H-A-D.。
And "echad" means oneness formed out of many parts.。
Now, here's the important thing for you to know.。
The word "echad" is primarily used in the Old Testament to speak about God.。
It's the primary word that's used in relation to who God is.。
In fact, the central scripture of the Old Testament to speak about God's heart is the Shema.。
"Love the Lord your God with all your mind, heart, soul, and strength. Love your neighbor as yourself."。
That, the Shema, it begins with this.。
It begins with, "You, O Lord, O God, are one."。
It's the primary statement of the Old Testament position of who God is.。
"You, Lord, are one." That's the word "echad."。
What it's saying is the Trinity, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit,。
three somewhat different kind of elements, if you will,。
come together to form a oneness in God that no one can break.。
Do you see this?。
And this is the important thing.。
"Echad" is used in this relationship with God as the primary picture of who God is.。
He is the Lord our God is one.。
Three in one.。
And there is a bond in that that cannot be shaken.。
It cannot be broken.。
They're in an intimacy and a relationship together that is the ultimate picture of oneness.。
So when the writer of Genesis begins to think about,。
"How do I describe the coming together of a couple in marriage?"。
He goes, "I'm going to link it to who God is."。
So what you've got to understand is that this is not just speaking about marriage.。
What actually is happening here in Genesis 2 is speaking about God as well.。
It's trying to bring marriage and God and the two of those things together as this one kind of idea.。
When a couple comes together in marriage,。
they become "echad" in the same kind of way that God is "echad."。
And when God comes together in a oneness that no one can separate,。
so these two can come together into a oneness that no one should separate.。
So marriage becomes the primary picture in the world of the "echad" of God.。
You still following this?。
And this is a beautiful thing.。
Because what it means to the couple getting married is that their relationship together。
is lots of separate parts coming together to form one whole。
that is a picture to the world of who God is.。
So marriage is not just about the sex act.。
But the sex act is included in this idea of coming together of the spirit, of the body,。
of the emotions, of our relationship, of everything that we are comes together with the other person。
that we're married to and in the sexual union, in the act of sex,。
it is the ultimate outcome of the "echad" that is seen in God.。
This is why the Bible makes a really strong point that sex is reserved for marriage.。
Because if sex is the coming together, remember for the Bible, sex is never just a physical act.。
That's one of the greatest lies of the world, that sex can just be physical.。
The Bible stands against that picture.。
Because the Bible says sex is part of this one flesh, "echad."。
So it is mind and spirit and emotions and body and everything else all coming together in one.。
And if that's the way it is, no one should be able to break that because that's never broken in God.。
And if no one should break that, then you should not go do that with lots and lots and lots and lots of people.。
Because if you do that, what you're actually showing the world is a separateness, not a oneness.。
This is why sex is reserved for marriage in the Christian tradition and faith.。
Because we get this beautiful gift to show the world oneness.。
When done in the right way, sex and marriage stands boldly against the tendency in this world to see more separateness take place.。
Now does that mean that Christian marriages are perfect?。
No.。
Does that mean that we don't still struggle with brokenness in marriage?。
Of course it means all those things.。
But that doesn't negate the reality that God has created this institution as the only place for sex to take place.。
Because our physical act of sex is a part of our echadding in the world,。
showing the world what the oneness of God is like.。
So when this all comes together, I want you to see how this then all flows together.。
Because here's the thing, sexual brokenness is essentially the breakdown of the oneness, the echad that God has created for it.。
You need to understand if this thing here gets broken first,。
when our relationship with God and our intimacy with Him, when that breaks, that always impacts this.。
I need you to see the flow.。
When this breaks, that impacts this.。
Suddenly we don't feel loved anymore.。
Suddenly we don't have the solid sense of inherent worth and value.。
Because that solid sense of inherent worth and value only ever flows from intimacy and relationship with God.。
God has imputed that to us, made in creation with Him, image of Him.。
But when we break our relationship with Him, the first thing that takes place is us going, "I don't feel loved anymore.。
I don't feel like I've got a value anymore."。
And not only that, but I don't think others have the same value I thought they had before.。
And here's the inevitability, when this breaks, this breaks, and then that will always break.。
One of the reasons why we have such great sexual brokenness in the church,。
there is so much sexual brokenness, I would say, in the church.。
Primarily because there has been a breakdown in the fundamental relationship with God here,。
which then has changed our belief and our acceptance of who we are and who others are.。
When that happens, we will find ourselves pursuing and seeking sex as a way to get back how we feel about ourselves.。
We will then use sex as a tool to try to feel more love, try to feel more acceptance,。
try to feel more value in the world around us,。
which inevitably is going to break our relationships more with the people around us.。
Because when you have a selfish desire to use this to get that back, you're going to break this as well.。
Following?。
And so the way that God has created this is He's saying, "Can you just see the vision that I've created?"。
When this is strong, you will have a strong sense of who you are.。
And when you know that you're loved and you have a strong sense of who you are,。
then you can reserve the sexual act for marriage,。
believing that you want to show the world the oneness that there can be,。
that two have been brought together.。
Let no one break that apart.。
And in that, in the security of that, you can raise children, have children,。
flourish children, and have relational connections with those around us.。
And you're not using relationships or identity and emotional brokenness and manipulation。
to try to satisfy something here that can only truly be satisfied from here to there to there.。
That's the beautiful invitational vision.。
And here's the brokenness.。
We so often turn people into objects.。
The majority of sexual brokenness that happens in the world happens because we objectify people.。
This is really powerful.。
I want you to track this with all the theology I've been giving you this morning.。
If Echad is about oneness, about separate parts coming together,。
and if that oneness is best seen in marriage and in the way that that happens within marriage,。
then here's what objectifying other people is all about.。
It's about separating the parts again.。
It's the opposite of Echad.。
It is basically saying, "I'm not interested in you for your emotions, for your relationship, for who you are.。
I'm only interested in your body.。
I'm going to separate all the other elements of who you are,。
and I'm just going to focus on your body for my own sexual gratification.。
I think your body is attractive, and because I'm attracted to your body,。
I'm going to now use that to gain pleasure and satisfaction for myself。
because ultimately I'm broken here, and when I'm broken here, I think everybody else is broken,。
and I will start doing the opposite of Echad.。
I will separate people down to just their physicality,。
and I will use that and abuse that to try to make myself feel better。
when this is the thing that's truly broken."。
Is this helping anyone?。
That's the glorious vision, and that's why there is so much brokenness.。
We've gotten our intimacy in the wrong way and in the wrong order.。
Let me finish just by showing you a little demonstration of this.。
I got this demonstration from another pastor.。
Pastor is Robert Madu. He's based in the U.S., although lots of other pastors have done it since,。
so I just wanted to tell you up front I'm gleaning something today.。
Remember a few weeks ago? This is a glean, but I've changed it a little bit。
to make it more applicable to what we're talking about today.。
I want you to see these boxes of intimacy.。
The largest box is always the spiritual one because that is the primary one。
that has been created for us.。
That is the top left-hand corner here.。
That is the thing that is always for us.。
Now, there are other intimacies that we have.。
We have, for example, the emotional intimacy.。
Emotional intimacy is a big one because there is also so much for us to say and do。
and understand about ourselves.。
As I've talked about earlier, we have this idea of relational intimacy.。
That's a little bit smaller box because our relational intimacy is not just dependent on us.。
It's dependent on other people.。
There are boundaries sometimes to that.。
We're not able to always be in relationship with the people we want to be in relationship with.。
That one's a little bit smaller.。
Then over here, we have the sexual intimacy box, which is the smallest of all。
because this is the one that has the greatest boundaries around it in Scripture,。
the one that has the context around it, and also it's the one that--yeah,。
just is small because--yeah.。
Anyway, it doesn't always last very long.。
That's probably another way of saying it.。
Okay, so--now, let me explain to you--sorry, sorry.。
I should have said that.。
There was bound to be something I was going to say that would come out wrong.。
Okay, so I want you to see this.。
Here's how I think we often approach relationships.。
I would say in the world particularly but also, unfortunately, in the church,。
we start with a sexual premise to begin with.。
That person's hot.。
I'm attracted to that person.。
There's a desire for that body or there's a desire for that satisfaction.。
Right off the back of that, we throw on some emotional intimacy。
because what happens when you have physical sex with someone。
is there's an incredible, powerful link of emotional insecurity.。
But what you do is you connect your sex to the emotion,。
and then that way, those things become unhealthily connected now。
so that if you're having sex, you feel emotionally connected to that person.。
When you're not or that's broken, then you struggle with your emotions。
about that relationship.。
In the world, often, we then try and throw relational intimacy on top of that。
because it's like we try to buy first.。
We get emotionally connected.。
We then go, "Well, I guess maybe we should start dating or hanging out more。
or maybe we should try and be a little bit more committed."。
I think in the church, sometimes this is the driving factor.。
We then find this, and then we decide that we need to get engaged。
or something like that.。
Then ultimately, if you're not a Christian, then that's where you'd stop.。
But us Christians, we then want to slap some spiritual intimacy on top,。
and that's what happens.。
Are you with me?。
Now, here's the biblical vision that God gives,。
which is the one we need to understand.。
It starts with the worship.。
It's got to start with the spiritual intimacy first and foremost,。
which then tells us who we are and who others are.。
That's the identity piece that's there, which then, of course,。
enables us to be in healthy relationship with those around us。
as well as potentially a life partner.。
If marriage does eventually come, then we can enjoy。
the incredible sexual intimacy that has been provided out of it.。
That's the biblical picture.。
That's what I want to inspire you with today.。
For those that are single here and perhaps never going to get married。
or maybe have decided in celibacy,。
it doesn't mean you're one-third or three-fourths a human being, remember?。
Because you are a sexual person,。
whether you're actually engaged in that activity or not,。
you're a whole person, and you can still have healthy sexuality。
even if you're celibate or not ever married。
or if you're a virgin for life.。
Does that make sense to you still?。
But for those that do get married and can engage in that,。
you then put that on top as a way of expressing this oneness,。
the echad of who God is in marriage.。
That, my friends, is the biblical vision.。
I think as we lean into this and get inspired by this,。
again, it doesn't mean that every Christian marriage is perfect,。
but it does mean that we submit ourselves under the grace of God。
and invite Him to help us.。
Christianity is not behavior modification.。
Christianity is inviting the vision of Christ and the gospel。
into our hearts and our lives and saying,。
"I want to live like that. God, give me the grace to do so.。
And forgive me where I so know that I so often fall short,。
but that does not negate the beautiful picture you've given me.。
Help me. Help me to be one who can honor the echad。
of who you are in this world."。
So my encouragement to you today is not to feel bad.。
Hopefully, you haven't felt shamed.。
Instead, I hope you felt inspired.。
I hope you've been welcomed into a beautiful, bigger vision。
of who you are yourself.。
And regardless of what state you are in life right now,。
what status you might have in relationships,。
that you would say, "This is what I want for me and my family."。
And as we come together in that, we pray for each other。
and we ask God to heal us of all the brokenness that is there.。
Because if you're anything like me, there's brokenness there.。
And we come around each other and encourage each other。
and love on each other and pray for each other.。
And we live because the world needs this narrative.。
This is hope. This is how families are created.。
This is how children are to be nurtured and brought into the world.。
This is the way it should be.。
And God stands back from that and says, "It is very good."。
Can I pray for you? Let's pray.。
Father, I thank you so much for every person here.。
And Father, I thank you for the fact that you've made them human.。
And as we've seen this morning, that's such a glorious picture.。
And you've created us sexual beings.。
And you've given us this gift of sex and all of its beauty and wonder and mystery.。
And Father, we pray that you would help us to be good stewards。
of the intimacy you have blessed us with.。
Spiritual, emotional, relational, and sexual.。
And that in our stewardship of that intimacy, we would remind ourselves。
that it is our relationship with you, out of which flows everything else.。
And when that relationship breaks, other things also begin to fall.。
And I wonder whether you would just take a moment here this morning,。
just to allow God to speak to you about you and Him.。
That spiritual intimacy with Him.。
Because how you think about yourself and how you think about others,。
and therefore your sexuality, and therefore your relationships,。
all flow from that point.。
You're blessed. You have inherent worth and dignity and value.。
He loves you.。
But when that breaks down, everything else breaks down behind it.。
So maybe today's response is just for you and Him.。
Just to take a moment now.。
Maybe for some of you, you want to worship Him.。
You want to just offer your life and heart to Him again.。
For some, it might be you want to listen to what He has to say to you today。
about this area of sexual identity and sexuality and sex itself.。
Perhaps for some of you, it's opening your heart。
to what the Holy Spirit might want to challenge you about.。
But it's you and God always, first and foremost.。
And out of that might come the need for other things.。
But right now, I want to encourage you to connect with Him.。
And in that intimacy, you would hear His voice.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
